US	51341166	R3V12APY5UGDOE	1400031869	890168637	To Live: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	"You've got to keep on living."	TO LIVE (Huozhe) in Chinese means \\"living continuously\\" with a connotation of \\"perseverance.\\" It's a quintessential story of a man's poignant epic transformation that spans over four decades of modern Chinese history. Like Gao Xinjian's ONE MAN BIBLE, owing to its quasi-subversive and sensitive content that relentlessly exposes the faulty rule of the Communist Party, TO LIVE was originally banned in China at its first publication in 1992. The language of TO LIVE is cunningly simple but not without terrain. The overall backdrop of the novel is highly historical: it covers the Sino-Japanese War, the civil war between the Communists and the Nationalists, Liberation, the founding of People's Republic of China (beginning of Mao's reign), the land reform era, the Great Leap Forward (blind smelting of iron that led to famine), the Proletarian Cultural Revolution and modern reform.   <br /> <br />Literature detailing the escape of Chinese dissidents and the turmoil during Proletarian Cultural Revolution flourishes, especially after the Tienanmen Square massacre in 1989. Stories of individual persecution under the red flag suddenly top most bestseller lists in the Western world. What really distinguishes TO LIVE from this literature and puts it among the pantheon of most influential modern Chinese literature is Yu Hua's sensitivity to the details of daily life and the verisimilitude of his delineation. Yu's writing makes an unerasable impression on Chinese people because the protagonist's experience provokes them to re-live the painful memories. <br /> <br />Fugui lives a most frivolous and extravagant life. He indulges in gambling, debauchery, and prostitution. His pregnant wife comes to the brothel to beg him go home with her. TO LIVE begins with a totally predictable lead that in less than a third way into the book Fugui would have squandered his family's fortune and settle into the honest work of a farmer. His turmoil as a poor farmer confirms the Chinese saying \\"calamities never occur singly.\\" The Nationalist Army forces him to leave his family and fight against the Communists. In utter poverty and devastation after the civil war, Fugui family lives an even more austere life under the land reform policy. He is determined to make his son's life complete at the sacrifice of his daughter, a typical feudal practice. The Great Leap Forward, which renounces agricultural practice and mandates surrender of all pots for smelting iron. The result is the worst famine in Chinese history that people would kill for a sweet potato.  <br /> <br />TO LIVE might have focused on Fugui's rebirth at the cost of life-and-death episodes against fate, poverty, and adverse social policies, but the heart of the novel is the undying hope for the better. Against the backdrop of his turmoil is the author's jest on the absurdity of a country that would blindly allow its political turmoil to cost lives of the innocent.  The Cultural Revolution, which purged scholardsand banished them to be re-educated in the countryside, is said to have a profound effect on modern China for it pushed the country backward. The purging, the thought policing, the labeling, the parading, the public criticizing session are among the few tactics Yu depicts in TO LIVE.  <br /> <br />TO LIVE is depressing to read. The protagonist's life, which is merely a tiny cross section of his generation during the time of the novel, is infused with hardships one after another, the incessant mourning and funerals, the horrors and ravages of a most ridiculous revolution that wrecked the nation apart.  <br />	2005-09-26
US	51341166	R10FJ0NCJZINGK	0140707107	749895845	Taming of the Shrew, The (Penguin) (Shakespeare, Penguin)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	"Archieve the elder, set the younger free."	Unlike any other Shakespeare's plays, THE TAMING OF THE SHREW has an induction, which lives up to its name in the sense that the prologue scene does indeed lead into the play that follows. It seems likely that Shakespeare had adopted the device from medieval narrative poetry, where it was extensively used to introduce a story in the form of a dream. In the induction, far more is involved than the mere setting of a scene and the informing to audience. In fact, Christopher Sly seems to have lapse into a dream as he is forced to adopt a new identity. The brief yet vigorous altercation between Sly and the hostess with which the induction begins is a curtain raiser for the dramatic struggle between Petruchio and Katherina that is to follow. Equally as significant is the Lord's instructions to his servant-boy as to the behavior he is to assume when he appears disguised as Sly's wife forebode the main theme of the play.<br /><br />THE TAMING OF THE SHREW has a powerful appeal for the Elizabethan audience at the time it opened because the struggle for mastery in a marriage remained a fact of existence and hot topics for writers. A true-to-life domestic scene opens the play and instantly grasps attention: Signor Baptista forbids all suitors to court his younger daughter Bianca until he finds a husband for the ill-tempered, difficult, and waspish elder daughter Katherina. She is notorious for her hot temper, foul tongue, and caprice. Out of jealousy and the qualm not remaining single, she often vents out her anger on her sister. Suitors of the younger sister, who decide to put aside their rivalry, contrive to find a match for Katherina.<br /><br />Gremio and Hortensio bear the cost of Petruchio's courting Katherina while Lucentio, who is madly in love with Bianca, and his crafty servant Tranio cunningly switch role to infiltrate the Baptista house. What inevitably follows is a facetious pursuit of love and a farcical melodrama that culminate in a riotously funny final scene in which Lucentio's real father, who has no clue of his son's betrothal, confronts the pedant-disguised impostor who reverse-accuses him of a charlatan.  Equally as clueless of the entire crafty scheme is Baptista whom the suitors have tricked and outmaneuvered. He is consistently mistaken about everything and everybody, so that he does not even understand why Bianca later asks for his forgiveness. He and Vincentio are merely the butts for all the intrigues that go on throughout the play.<br /><br />THE TAMING OF THE SHREW maintains an irresistible appeal among the comedies owing to the intriguing trickery with which characters rival for courtship. Just as suspenseful and entertaining is Petruchio's calculated, punctilious campaign to tame his wife. His line of attack is psychological, although persuasive words carefully planned for each step accompany his actions. He somehow outsmarts his wife and deliberately outdoes her in his perversity and bad temper. The quintessential spleen of tantrum flourishes in the scenes in which Petruchio abuses his servants and tailor. His being abusive, tyrannical, violent, and capricious functions more than a reflection - it is evident of a caricature of Katherina through an exaggerated parody of her wild behavior. His evaluation of her mind is confirmed by her softening and surrender for she welcomes the opportunity of meeting an antagonist who will put up a good fight.<br /><br />THE TAMING OF THE SHREW is highly rhetorical (even more so than AS YOU LIKE IT). Whether it is Petruchio's aggressive, vituperative taming or the milder courting of Bianca, the play never lacks an elite style with which Shakespeare exploited language to a linguistic virtuosity. For example, Petruchio's taming distinguishes from the usual method that might involve violence. What differentiate his campaign are the subtlety, the sophistication, and the ingenuity of his conceiving of Katherina's mind. His perspicacious mind justifies the use of highly rhetorical, puny, and literary discourse that somehow alienates the ordinary speech in the play and paradoxically brings in a fuller, more intimate possession of his witty scheme.rhetorical, puny, and literary discourse that somehow alienates the ordinary speech in the play and paradoxically brings in a fuller, more intimate possession of his witty scheme. <br />	2005-09-07
US	51341166	RNFPNSX7KDQ3Z	0140185399	972711653	A Burnt-Out Case (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	"..suffer from nothing...no longer know what suffering is.."	Graham Greene often strikes readers as being a prolific writer of genre novels. In an unreaderly time, it's amazing that his works still arouse responses of curiosity, attention, and debate to an extent that is deeper than what entertainment novels usually ensue. Reflecting the style of many other works, Greene invests in A BURNT-OUT CASE a moral dilemma that gives it an edge of seriousness and a whiff of suspense. Combining his rich travel experience with a style of the utmost calm, lucidity and simplicity, A BURNT-OUT CASE concerns a man who escapes life and his successful career as an architect and seeks refuge in a Congo leproserie.  <br /> <br />Querry is emotionally marooned - he suffers from nothing and loses touch with love, sentiment, and suffering. Humanity has no grabble on him. He is diagnosed as the mental equivalent of a burnt-out leprosy case, a leper who has undergone mutilation before he can be cured. Querry arrives anonymously and discreetly at the village looking for meaning in life. He might have lost his capacity to love but his scruple retains. The ex-architect has plunged to the bottom of his life (to the point of no return) when he realizes for his entire life he has not loved. The remorse in him motivates to come in terms with suffering, for suffering is the only measure one has to put himself in touch with the whole human condition.  <br /> <br />A BURNT-OUT CASE strives to make a daring connection between failure to love and religious hypocrisy. Querry realizes his lack of love and he cannot even pretend that what he has been feeling in life is love. The motives for work, life, or anything, fail him and the ultimate crisis settles in: his life has been deprived of meaning. The moment he perceives the emptiness he has been lifted off the pit and is spurred toward love and good deeds. What Greene strives to convey is that one who has found love no longer has to elaborate that love to others. The novel subtly ridicules the absurdity in whichChristianity would always presume and appropriate man's love and attribute man's good deeds to Christian love. So Christianity takes credit for all the good fruits and leave behind the evil doings. This blunt denial of any good that exists outside of Christian faith engenders hypocrisy. <br /> <br />A BURNT-OUT CASE therefore affords an audacious (but valid) claim that is possible for a man of intelligence, modesty, honesty, and remorse to make his life without a god. The claim adumbrates a borderline existentialist tenet, which believes in an individualism that is free from any social and external influence in order to achieve autonomous decision-making in life and ultimately giving a tight grip on one's fate. The beauty of the novel lies in the fact that it does man's volition justice through Querry's transformation to love labor. The novel neither scorns Christianity nor the deeds impelled by the religious faith, but it expounds love that is purely humane and love that is not institutionalized or labeled.  <br /> <br />The struggle between hypocrisy and pure love becomes very evident as the underlying pride, deceit, and bitterness culminate in a riotous violence that jolts the quiet village. The novel exposes what most religious people do not wish to confront: the re-examination, and possibly the renewal of love at the painfully unbearable realization of the cruel truth that they do not love despite all the scrupulous church-going and the lip worship. For such philosophical terrain the novel seeks to tackle, Graham Greene had accomplished more than an entertainment novel. <br />	2005-08-31
US	51341166	R3QWE46OH6YRJ6	0192834193	660240612	As You Like It (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	"Sweet are the uses of adversity."	AS YOU LIKE IT presents itself as a comedy but more substantially a spiritual meditation of one's conversion to goodness. While the play retains conventionalities that resonate in his other comedies, Shakespeare had obviously nudged the play to a direction that is redolent of a religious overtone. The main plot concerns Rosalind, a woman who disguises as a man but pretends to be the woman she actually is so she can woo the man by teaching him to court her. A streak of melancholy runs through the play from the beginning when Orlando is bitter at his brother Oliver who has deprived him of a genteel education and retains him at home. The melodrama of the brothers presages a possible tragedy as Oliver proposes to burn the lodging where Orlando customarily lives and with Orlando in it.  <br /> <br />Diversion away from the city and court somewhat mitigates the tension. Far away in the fairyland-like Forest of Arden (allusive to Eden) resides a banished duke whose crown and lands his brother Frederick has usurped. Duke Senior, in his landmark opening speech in Act 2, which introduces the allegorical Arden, duly expounds the pastoral philosophy. He articulates the monologue so well that the phrases become proverbial and the speech a sermon. Most of the actions then occur in Arden and in which almost all of the characters converge. Arden in a way represents a religious ideal and a converging ground for everyone to renew their identity and spirituality.  <br /> <br />As Orlando flees from his villainous brother, Rosalind's venomous uncle Duke Frederick banishes her from the court to be with her father. Rosalind enters Arden disguised as a young man Ganymede and teaches Orlando about wooing. Whereas the woodlands of A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM are genuinely magical and populated by fairies, the Forest of Arden is like a fictitious realm that represents an ideal in which social values, love, marriage, and identity are renewed and re-examined.  <br /> <br />Shakespeare contrivedto make a tale of redemption or some sort of a moral lesson out of AS YOU LIKE IT, preaching the ideal pastoral philosophy through the de-emphasizing of the plot. The story does not seem to matter as much as the underlying moral theme Shakespeare determined to convey. While Rosalind plays a leading part of the play and peremptorily takes charge of the play's situation (which facetiously involves entangled love among multiple parties), she extorts the necessary promises from all concerned and ties the right knots. Her preponderating overshadows Orlando despite the initial stress on his manliness and valor. <br /> <br />AS YOU LIKE IT is predominantly in prose: the opening scene that delineates Orlando's pent-up agony proceeds in verses so does the scene in which the usurping Duke dismisses Orlando and that in which he banishes Rosalind. The scenes involving the banished Duke, who delivers a tirade on pastoral philosophy in Arden, are all written in prose. It is not a coincidence, but rather a meticulous choice that the sober and solemn parts of the play are penned in prose.  <br /> <br />Variation of theme that manifests in different plays again surface in AS YOU LIKE IT. Rosalind, whose disguise is already a Shakespearean convention, in teaching Orlando how to woo, speaks about the caprice of human heart, the failure of lovers' to keep in pace with emotions, and the conflict between impulse, feeling, and truth.  <br /> <br />AS YOU LIKE IT could be easily one of the most canonical plays in the repertory owing to the fact that readers can lay claim to the text on their own behalf. The endless possibilities to interpret the play also ironically invite misleading account from focusing on only selected features. The famous line \\"sweet are the uses of adversity\\" cunningly sums up how in most comedies a near tragic crisis at which disaster or happiness may ensue could be overcome by such overriding force of goodwill. <br />	2005-08-22
US	51341166	RSBYDHGDN66C2	0451526767	370153288	Twelfth Night, or, What You Will	Books	5	0	1	N	N	"That you do think you are not what you are."	TWELFTH NIGHT is probably one of the most unthreatening and reader/audience-friendly Shakespearean plays in its accessibility. The plot of intrigue in the play, which amazingly affords a marked absence of powerful authority figures, draws on the conventions of popular inveighing comedy. In this whimsical plot, the calculating Sir Toby, who assumes a father figure to his cousin Lady Olivia, aims to dupe the foolish Sir Andrew out of his money. When the lady's steward Malvolio rebukes Sir Toby's rowdy drinking debauchery, his accomplice and eventual wife, Maria, takes over and makes the steward object of her gulling ingenuity. This neatly, dazzling interlocking of plot also contributes to the relaxing atmosphere on top of the usual Elizabethan theatrical embodiment of gender misconception and identity.<br /><br />TWELFTH NIGHT on top of the festive spirit and dramatic forgery and facetious gulling is a search of human identity in all its strangeness and paradoxicality. It has gone beyond mistaken identity as traditionally understood in comedy to include disguise and gender misrecognition, a definitive phenomenon in which boy actors play women's parts. It addresses a subtler and yet precarious issue in the situation of identical twins teetering on the risk of being mistaken. Identical twins are automatically ripped off their uniqueness, the unmistakable self. The broad appeal of TWELFTH NIGHT as a good-humored play is sharpened by its comedy of mistaken identity between the long-lost twins Sabestian and Viola. Although they are of different sexes, other characters in the play cannot distinguish them from one another when Viola disguises as a young man. This is a significant message from the play: in addition to the concomitant non-recognition and loss of identity, a conditional identity exists only under particular conditions of place, time, and context. The peculiarity of such a disguise and the duration of which is an interesting paradox that concerns what Viola has to lose rather than to gain by ceasing to be the young man.<br /><br />Folly permeates the language of TWELFTH NIGHT. The device used against Malvolio is nothing but one aspect of the play's satirical character. Folly reigns in the seat of wisdom (and maybe even the truth) in order to expose the foolishness of those who count themselves wise. And when the confusions of the masquerade bring home to all the truth, in sober daily life, we know neither our own identities nor the identities of our peers. The play sustains the idea that if the fool will become wise at the expense of persistent folly. The salient outcome is a play that is richly composed of deceptions: self-deception, delusion of love, alienation. And yet through all these confusions and carnival-like disguise clarification and self-knowledge are reached, just as a masquerade releases people from their everyday inhibitions and enable them to discover themselves.<br /><br />TWELFTH NIGHT is not faultless despite its immediate accessibility and broad appeal. The unresolved tension that concerns the steward and numerous loose ends in the play constitute to the slight imperfections that are difficult to overlook.to lose rather than to gain by ceasing to be the young man.<br /><br />Folly permeates the language of TWELFTH NIGHT. The device used against Malvolio is nothing but one aspect of the play's satirical character. Folly reigns in the seat of wisdom (and maybe even the truth) in order to expose the foolishness of those who count themselves wise. And when the confusions of the masquerade bring home to all the truth, in sober daily life, we know neither our own identities nor the identities of our peers. The play sustains the idea that if the fool will become wise at the expense of persistent folly. The salient outcome is a play that is richly composed of deceptions: self-deception, delusion of love, alienation. And yet through all these confusions and carnival-like disguise clarification and self-knowledge are reached, just as a masquerade releases people from their everyday inhibitions and enable them to discover themselves.<br /><br />TWELFTH NIGHT is not faultless despite its immediate accessibility and broad appeal. The unresolved tension that concerns the steward and numerous loose ends in the play constitute to the slight imperfections that are difficult to overlook.	2005-08-02
US	51341166	R2J8MCLJEC4VS3	0451526961	370153288	A Midsummer Night's Dream (Signet Classics)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	"...reason and love keep little company together nowadays..."	Even though in most of his comedies the entertainments are punctured by sarcastic comments and comic relief, Shakespeare, who has demonstrated keen devices of opposites, from long dignified prose to comic verse, strives not to repeat himself. Shakespeare seems to have enjoyed playing variation on a theme, dwelling on an idea (further developing an idea) hinted at in other parts of a play or in another play. A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM embodies both. The play sets in Athens, in the midst of summer, which is associated traditionally (and surreptitiously) to magic. Immediately the opening act sets the romantic plot and whimsical air in motion by presenting the conflict between the young lovers and their elders.<br /><br />The interesting thing is that it seems A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM could be a swinger: the situation as it stands could validly issue in either tragedy (similar circumstances in ROMEO AND JULIET, in which families thwarted what meant-to-be love) or comedy. Shakespeare quickly resolves the dilemma and provides light to the darkness of the situation. He nudges the story to a direction in which the style does not involve the audience too snuggly in the lovers' emotions. The love entanglement engenders enough body and reference to larger concepts to be viewed as image of some universal human experience: one so true-to-life that it inevitably and in no time provokes sympathy. The lovers' lines are not completely out of place in a romantic comedy because the lines are generalized: because soon after the crisis Lysander brings forward a plan by which he and Hermia may get out of their difficult situation. Hermia will neither be forced to marry Demetrius or perpetrate defiance of the pre-arranged marriage that surely promises prosecution. So the hints of pathos and possibility of tragedy echo ROMEO AND JULIET.<br /><br />One of the recurring themes in A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM, as well as in TWELFTH NIGHT, and in LOVE LABOUR'S LOST, concerns the irrationality of love. In TWELFTH NIGHT, the gender disguise causes the confusion of love and identity of twins, and magic adopts the same course in A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM as the King of Fairy decides to squeeze love juice onto Demetrius whom he has mistaken for Lysander. The idea of the tension between what people ought reasonably to feel and what in fact they do feel further gravitates to make a lasting impression. What is meant to make Demetrius requite the hapless Helena's passion takes an unexpectedly convoluted turn to anoint Lysander's eyes and he feels madly in love with Helena. Ironically he attributes this novel affection to his reason, which a mechanical later brings up in a sarcastic manner the antithesis between love and reason, whereas we know that the change has been effected by Puck's juice.<br /><br />Variation of a theme that is hinted at in other parts of play is no more quintessential than the seemingly irrelevant speech that demonstrates poetic merit. The exquisite speech on irrational weather bears significance that is otherwise easily dismissed as mere decoration. So much Titania might have alluded to the inclement weather, the passionate tirade provides the ground for the idea that quarrel between the young lovers causes confusion in the seasons. For in the height of Helena's agony, she speaks about the danger of disaster and malevolent forces of nature and the caprice and irrationality of love. An atmosphere of a spell of illusion persists throughout the play, redolent of a recurrent notion of a dislocation between the senses, and between the senses and the brain. A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM, shrouded by comic confusions, sheds light on lovers' failure to reason and to keep pace with their emotions.love. In TWELFTH NIGHT, the gender disguise causes the confusion of love and identity of twins, and magic adopts the same course in A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM as the King of Fairy decides to squeeze love juice onto Demetrius whom he has mistaken for Lysander. The idea of the tension between what people ought reasonably to feel and what in fact they do feel further gravitates to make a lasting impression. What is meant to make Demetrius requite the hapless Helena's passion takes an unexpectedly convoluted turn to anoint Lysander's eyes and he feels madly in love with Helena. Ironically he attributes this novel affection to his reason, which a mechanical later brings up in a sarcastic manner the antithesis between love and reason, whereas we know that the change has been effected by Puck's juice.<br /><br />Variation of a theme that is hinted at in other parts of play is no more quintessential than the seemingly irrelevant speech that demonstrates poetic merit. The exquisite speech on irrational weather bears significance that is otherwise easily dismissed as mere decoration. So much Titania might have alluded to the inclement weather, the passionate tirade provides the ground for the idea that quarrel between the young lovers causes confusion in the seasons. For in the height of Helena's agony, she speaks about the danger of disaster and malevolent forces of nature and the caprice and irrationality of love. An atmosphere of a spell of illusion persists throughout the play, redolent of a recurrent notion of a dislocation between the senses, and between the senses and the brain. A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM, shrouded by comic confusions, sheds light on lovers' failure to reason and to keep pace with their emotions.	2005-08-02
US	51341166	R29WC7QWEGQG7O	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	"Can you really say you are happy?"	Funny but piercing, THE CORRECTIONS is a witty epitome of an American family in which the old-fashioned world of civic virtue and moral values vehemently collide with worldly greed, lust, and in-law hostility. The immediate ambience THE CORRECTIONS affords is one of depression, anxiety, and looming alarm. It poses the ultimate question that is ineluctable to all of us in an up-front manner: what life is for? Speaking under the breath, Franzen is really asking what life is for if it's not for happiness. The novel develops in the silhouette of the idea that people who think they are happy are not really happy. The sadder scenario is the futility to gauge and to remedy this issue. <br /> <br />THE CORRECTIONS begins with a call for family reunion. After almost fifty years as a wife and a mother, as her children have gone separate ways to cruel reality of their lives, Enid Lambert is determined to make changes in her life. As her husband, Alfred, loses his sanity to Parkinson's disease, she sets her heart in bringing her family together for one last Christmas in St. Jude. She confides her plan in her daughter, Denise, though of whose immoral lifestyle, which includes pre-marital sex and affair with married men, she strongly disapproves.  Alfred's diagnosis has become Enid's underground extension of her intelligence and persists in connecting the affliction with Denise's announcement of her affairs to her father. Denise feels obliged to help her mother reunite the family.  <br /> <br />Chip Lambert is the single knucklehead who is forced to resign from his teaching job shortly before securing tenure due to a subversive affair with a student that has gone backfired. He now occupies his time with freelancing for a small paper whose name his mother has mistaken as the Wall Street Journal and he has no intention to disabuse her from the deception. He also thrives to conceive revenge on the college in the form of a screenplay that will expose the narcissism, treachery and hypocrisy of the drama. Until the play comes to fruition, each day the fine-tuning of the script becomes a day in which all his expenses are paid for with Denise's money. <br /> <br />Gary Lambert is pathetically sandwiched between his repugnant wife (who calls him depressed at his mention of St. Jude and camouflages her animosity toward him as an ostensible concern for his mental health) and his parents. Gary suffers from a make-believe depression and a deepened sense of isolation that is the product his Caroline's cunning manipulation of and forming allies with his sons in the house. Caroline's inveterate hostility and standoffishness toward his parents are also conducive to Gary's feeling that the nature of family life is changing for worse: the togetherness, filially, and fraternity are not valued the way they were when he was young. Not only his wife has carefully nudged the life of the boys to a manner that snubs their grandparents and minimizes their involvement, Gary also realizes that the till of his marriage no longer contains sufficient love and goodwill to cover the emotional cost that he and his sons have been separated from his parents. <br /> <br />THE CORRECTIONS comprises multiple layers of social niches that converge to one central theme that is not ulterior in literature: the meaning of life and the search for happiness. The circuitous musing of life's purpose is coated with domestic drama, sexual affair, globalized greed, hands-on mental health treatment, and inescapable senility. Chip struggles with the indignity of being out of a job and being penniless; but ironically the luxury at the tip of Gary's finger does not ensue happiness. His marriage pricks his mind and his entire life has been set up to be correction to his father's. Chip feels misunderstood but he never notices how badly he himself has misunderstood his father, whose struggle with fraternal bonding does not hinder him from loving his son.  <br /> <br />Peeling off the humor, openheartedness, drama and brawl, THE CORRECTIONS affords sarcasm on the ineptitude to be honest with our feelings. It mocks the way our culture attaches too much importance on feelings to an incorrigible extent in which people try to correct their thoughts to improve their feelings. THE CORRECTIONS calls for the awakening of the lost feelings in relationships that are usually rooted in family. The novel is poignant, brutal, and funny. It might have struck a discordant note in weathering spasm of hatred but it is, after all, a true-to-life and contiguous to certain walk of our life. <br />	2005-07-13
US	51341166	R1OWSPTBE85WUS	0316346624	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A new way to think and to look at mass behavior	THE TIPPING POINT seeks to rationalize, in a business-to-do manner that adopts theory of psychology, the inexplicable causes to social and behavior phenomena that suddenly jolt out of equilibrium, or rebound from a chronic slump - and tips. This \\"tipping point\\" is the magic moment when an idea, a trend, a social behavior, a disease, or in the worst scenario, a deadly epidemic, crosses a threshold and spreads like wildfire. Tipping phenomena have always demonstrated to be highly contagious  (no wonder Gladwell has deemed it an epidemic throughout the book) and rendered tremendous effect from minor causes, and have happened at one dramatic moment. <br /> <br />Gladwell elaborates on these tipping phenomena in a manner that is as innovative and provocative as a new language. A new term that I learn from the book is \\"Maven\\", a consumer who has lots of information and inside scoops on different products or prices or places. In other words, in sharing thoughts and comments on books here, I qualify as a book Maven. This idea hinges on the fact that Mavens like to initiate product discussion with consumers and respond to requests and provide recommendation. This Maven logic tugs into the Amazon reviewing business perfectly: there is something about the personal, detached, two-cent type of opinion from a Maven that makes us all sit up and listen. Maven's real power derives from the fact that reviews are voluntary, which makes opinion sharing so much more compelling than critics or staff editors whose job is to rate the products. <br /> <br />The three principles that govern whether something will tip or not root deeply in counter-intuition. According to Gladwell, the major agents to which tipping attributes are the law of the few, stickiness, and the power of context. An idea's magnitude of contagion relies heavily on the few people who are endowed with social gifts. In other words, these are the folks who know everyone from all social spheres and bring people from these different social circles together and exert an inconceivable influence on their peers who turn to them for pointers out of trust and respect. Tipping occurs when a few of these people give the product a push or just a brief mention among their friends. The effect of this word-of-mouth is more pronounced when the whizzes and bangs of media, the incessant TV commercials, the more-than-ever densely spaced billboards along freeways, the spam e-mails, overwhelm people who inevitably develop immunity to traditional form of communication. People turn instead for advice and information to those in their lives that they respect, admire, and trust. <br /> <br />Stickiness, according to Gladwell, is how well an idea ingrains to one's mind and gravitates in memory. The influential few could give it push but the bottom is the actual property of the message. The key to render a message sticky lies in the tedious fine-tuning the message to the receptiveness of audience. There exists something very profoundly counterintuitive about stickiness in which subtlety and insidious niche matter. The stickiness challenge is to gravitate any picture or message in memory toward what was familiar to the subject in his own life, consonant with his own culture, and above all, to what had some special emotional significance for him. The take-home message is touch the right chord. <br /> <br />The other player in tipping effect is the power of context, which dictates that there are specific situations so powerful that they can overwhelm our inherent predispositions.  The common mistake is that we attach too much importance to fundamental character trait and underestimate the importance of situation and context.  <br /> <br />Gladwell provides numerous examples in illustrating and advocating his standpoints: the decline of crime in New York City in early 1990s, the incredible rebound of Hush Puppies sneakers, the astounding success of Sesame Street in 1960s and the even more \\"stickier\\" successor Blue's Clues, the Baltimore needle-exchange program, the Belgian poisoned Coke drama, the Columbia Record \\"gold-box\\" trigger...etc. I do not have to agree with every viewpoint and example (i.e. the news anchor's significant and noticeable bias in facial expression is correlated to voting pattern in presidential election in the 1980s) to merit the way THE TIPPING POINT has provoked new way of thinking and changed the way people think about disseminating ideas. The book has awakened the fact that we fuction, communicate, and process information in a straightforward and transparent way that we do not have a mindset that is sharpened for abstractness.  <br />	2005-07-13
US	51341166	RP5PW4IJ2M2O2	0156004011	163921219	The Stone Raft	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Confession of humility of human beings at the extreme adversity	Like BLINDNESS, Jose Saramago nimbly spins off another what-if tale in THE STONE RAFT with a tinge of a political overtone between his native country and Europe. The Iberian peninsula simply breaks free from the European continent: drifting away at an awestruck speed of 750 kilometers a day, splitting, parching, stretching the earth and bringing down cables with it and sailing as if it is a gargantuan stone raft. <br /> <br />At the initial stage a most innocent crack manifests at the Spanish-French border and evolves into a 20-meter ditch into which a major river plunges down into an abyss like a waterfall. What follows is an inconsolable shudder of fear that sweeps through the peninsula and nearby Europe. Terror-stricken inhabitants begin to evacuate the region. No sooner than the news make headlines than hundred and thousands of tourists hastily cut short their vacations and fled.  <br /> <br />All of the above is so quintessential of the Portuguese writer. But the charivari is too predictable and so tip-of-the-iceberg for an author who is down for delving in deeper meaning of the strange occurrence. Some decide not to leave and accept the event as an irreversible act of fate, a plausible demonstration of mother nature. Some see it as an imperious sign of destiny. Others opt for silence and conform to what future will bring. Among those who brave the danger are five strangers who find company and comfort with one another. A man who throws a rock far out to the horizon of sea. A man who charms a swarm of starlings. A man who is literally a human seismograph. A woman who draws an indelible line that splits the earth with a woodstick. A woman whose thread of her sock never exhausts. <br /> <br />Like in BLINDNESS, Saramago puts his characters face-to-face with an unusual predicament and the outcome of which forever changes their lives. THE STONE RAFT again serves as a steel proof and a confession of humility of human beings at the extreme adversity, which forces thestrangers to reflect on their lives, especially their experience accumulated and the mistakes perpetrated. <br /> <br />The scope of this audaciously creative novel transcends the consequences of the unprecedented geological event. It does not make light of the panicky reactions, pandemonium, massive exodus, and the altered contested political spheres. But more profusely it examines the entwined fate of the five sang froid strangers whose surreal experience have conincided to the Iberian fracture. In the midst of risk-savvy milieu, the five recognize their inescapable fate that has overlapped. And as bureaucrats baffle and bungle at handling the crisis, they surrender to what best serves the deeper interest of humanity and human beings: carnal pleasure. <br /> <br />THE STONE RAFT is a passionate questing tale against the backdrop of a world that finds itself in a state of suspense, something that is ulterior to any human being.  <br />	2005-06-23
US	51341166	R14N3NYMX7VHLL	031242051X	539004866	Strong Motion: A Novel	Books	4	2	5	N	N	How does one gauge responsibility if it has limits?	STRONG MOTION begins with a plausible impression of a family dispute over an unexpected inheritance. After spending years in Houston for college, Louis Holland, at age 23, moves to Boston and works for a radio station that devotes to arts and literature and excludes politics: an operating direction that is conducive to its struggling audience rating. The grim prospect of the station puts him at life's crossroad but confirms his modest approach to life: that he has been content with his life and its conditions. A person who accustoms to what he is, Louis learns to hold in somewhat lower esteem (and expectations) all other ways of being so as not to spend life envying and grieving over them. <br /> <br />The death of a step-grandmother whom Louis neither meets nor hears of causes an eddy within his family and tears apart the tacit understanding that allows the father, mother, daughter, and son to be polite to each other in public. Rita Damiano Kernaghan had appropriated all of Louis's grandfather's assets and forged a title to the family mansion to borrow money on. She archived the distinction of being the only victim of the first of a series of unusual earthquakes that rock the Boston area. She had been found dead tumbling off a bar stool. <br /> <br />As Louis's mother inherits the 22 million dollars that Rita had left behind, and cajoles the family to put behind the monetary matter until the unfortunate situation has faded, not to his surprise, his spoiled sister has already tried to tap their mother's new resources. It seems like once and for all, Eileen has always, with her incorrigible avarice and punctilious calculation, beaten him to their mother's money. Through all the years he has learned to forgive and become indifferent to all the injustice to which he has been subjected. In tears and anger he outpours his pent-up bitterness to his father, who affords such high regard for his son's independent spirit and husbandry. He is utterly exasperated at being accused of materialism, which he thinks has taken a tight grip on his sister.  <br /> <br />STRONG MOTION wittily branches out, in a perfect pacing synchronizing events developing within the family and the outside world, to accommodate more threads away from the family. As the family feud over favoritism and inheritance runs red-hot, Louis falls in love with Renee Seitchek, a conscientious and bright seismologist who probes the cause of the unusual earthquakes and feels the scruple of being unable to prevent them. Seitchek's discoveries complicate everything and ensue life-threatening danger. In a random TV appearance, she also provokes pro-lifers and anti-abortionists and members of a local church whose building the state condemns as being seismically unsafe. What originally begins as a family grudge accommodates into it unusual seismicity, chemical spill, corporate scandal, abortion issue, and a love story. <br /> <br />STRONG MOTION is no more intriguing a novel than truthful a social commentary of an ailing society. As Renee Seitchek traces to the horrible root of the earthquakes, whatever the cause must be, STRONG MOTION addresses the razor-thin line between human responsibility and the responsibility of mother nature. In other words, how can one believe in responsibility and how does one gauge responsibility if responsibility has limits? The novel also silently jeers at the way media rub the public's face the notion that they now live in a special time. It snaps at the sickening proliferation of identical newspaper articles running identical interviews with survivors who said it was scary and identical statements from scientists who were equivocal about the true cause of the tremor. The novel, finally, makes light of the preposterous lawsuits with which people who fail to take the responsibility for their lives and blameshift on others in order to ease their transitions to normalcy. The book demonstrates how fiction can bridge the gap between journalism and socialcommentary with a touch of humor and malice. <br />	2005-06-18
US	51341166	R1U2NWUE2X2QYC	0452279755	234995964	The Same Embrace: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Embrace the difference in life	THE SAME EMBRACE tells the story of identical twins, Jacob and Jonathan, who once shared an unbreakable bond and synchronized their breathing, had gone separate ways divided by religious faith, desire, and sexual identity. Jonathan has taken up Orthodox Judaism, settled in a yeshiva in Jerusalem, and scrupulously observed all religious creeds. Halfway around the world at home, Jacob, also at the age of 24, is a gay activist in Boston who has just mourned the death of his partner and assumes little hope for a heartwarming reconciliation with his estranged brother. <br /> <br />Jacob has always blamed the church and its invidious indoctrination for his brother's isolation from family. The novel begins with Jacob's mission to convince Jonathan returning home from Israel, at least for a visit. The trip, as promising as it initially seems to be, with both brothers being unusually polite to each other, meets a disastrous conclusion as Jacob's inappropriate (borderline lewd) behavior with Jonathan's study partner sends him packing homeward. What has attempted to break the ice between the brothers causes a breach that teeters on the edge of hatred. <br /> <br />The narrative in THE SAME EMBRACE alternates between the present and Jacob's childhood memories. Entwined with family anecdotes and Jewish traditions are Jacob's own reflections of his coming out to his family. Lowenthal writes about Jacob's indecipherable fear and insecurity of his sexual identity as well as his guilt of his self-censorship with an insurmountable adroitness. The novel sets against the backdrop of a time that is struck by the convergence of so many momentous happenings: the initiative campaign, the Bush/Clinton/Perot presidential debate, the Columbus quincentenary (1992) and the launch of AIDS quilt display. In the heat of a politics-dabbled milieu, Jacob contrives to rebounce from anger and alienation toward reconciliation and acceptance. An unexpected arrival of an unheard-of relative during a family mourning spurs him onto love and hope in reconciling with his twin brother and rekindles a hopeful future. <br /> <br />THE SAME EMBRACE embraces the essence of a young gay man's inner struggle: a prickling dilemma of wanting to tell the truth but lacking the courage. Jacob finds himself caught in the hypocrisy that his relationship with his family is superficial and even fake because people are not seeing the real him. THE SAME EMBRACE evokes the love the that allows families to embrace the difference of one another. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-06-02
US	51341166	R20M5MZKY4RZLO	0743250419	372341668	The Master: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	"everyone carries with him another life that is half-secret"	THE MASTER paints a picture of a writer who is private, independent and who leads a quiet writing life that he would not trade for the world. Henry James is an American living under the grandeur of Europe and whose life is entwined with elite people who move like players in a game of seek-and-hide, between knowing and not knowing, with awestruck disguise and pretense. The book captures the writer in his early fifties, 14 years after the critical success with THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY, to which the current novel repeatedly alludes. THE MASTER begins on the disastrous opening night of his play GUY DOMVILLE, when James came onstage only to be hissed and booed by the London audience; whereas the ribald and vulgar plays of his rival achieved unprecedented success. <br /> <br />The substantial value of GUY DOMVILLE, which soberly considers the conflict between material life and the life of pure contemplation and the vicissitudes of human love, leaves an indelible impression on the elite. But the clash between the invited audience and the general public is as unbridgeable a gap as the success between Henry James and his rival Oscar Wilde. GUY DOMVILLE forever ends his career as a playwright: an idea that he subsequently recalls with despondency and contempt. <br /> <br />It is under such a decided turning point Colm Toibin concocts the story of James's life, as the novelist rededicates himself to fiction but with the burden of a melancholy fact that nothing he did would ever be popular or generally appreciated. The novel reiterates his refusal to compromise in forfeiting the noble art of writing in order to make his works popular. It matters to him how he is seen as a writer who is utterly nonchalant about popularizing his works. The idea of being seen to devote himself in solitude and selfless appreciation to writing gives him ineffable satisfaction. The brothers have minor fallout when William James cajoles him to write a novel about moral values of America and to abandon the silly fastidiousness of English manners that William believes are conducive to Henry's unclear and over-embellished style. <br /> <br />THE MASTER is a writer's own sober reflection on life: bittersweet memories of an unprotected childhood, unconsoled grief of unfulfilled love, and unrepressed regret of love not pursued, and an incessant longing. The prose exudes an air of loneliness that attributes to his recoiling from engagements, from deep companionship and from the warmth of love. The writing is redolent of discretion and stoicism. Henry James himself learns never to disclose anything, and even to acknowledge the moment when some new intelligence is imparted. He scrupulously keeps his sentiment, especially for men, in check and assiduously safeguards his passions from being known. He knows everyone carries with him the aura of another life that is half-secret and half-open, to be known about but not mentioned. His longing for the companionship and the touch of a man is stored away in an entirely private world to which it could only return at the sound of a name or at the vision in mind.  <br /> <br />THE MASTER delineates a writer who consistently draws on his domestic life as materials for his novels. THE BOSTONIAN and THE AMBASSADOR are mindful of his sister and more significantly offer her the experiences she would have wanted and provide drama for a life which had been so cruelly shortened. In a similar manner, THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY reminisces his cousin who had been more real to him than any of the new people he associated with.  <br /> <br />Colm Toibin, with a quiet and stoic manner, deftly unfolds and retrieves pieces of mind that James so assiduously conceals. The death of his friend Constance Woolson, to whom he had been the closest out of his family, and who contemplates at length all his works, preys his mind. THE MASTER turns out to be a marvelously intelligent and engaging novel mapping the mind behind James's writing. The completion of the novel plies opens a corner of his mind that urges me to read his novels. Entwined in the description of James's perception of his novels is such psychological subtlety that captures the nuances of consciousness of both the writer and society.  <br />	2005-06-01
US	51341166	R2BYN78ONZDS6V	0141439637	689665039	The Portrait of a Lady (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	22	29	N	N	What has Isabel Archer accomplished after all?	Henry James published THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY in 1881 with an aspiration to scale new literary height that would surmount DAISY MILLER. THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY dawns on his perception of betrayal. In this extremely poignant novel, James toys with the paradoxical idea that one can come to the full possession of his power only to realize that he really has no way out once he has lived long enough to achieve the goal. James's purpose of the novel is to show his heroine, Isabel Archer, confronting her destiny. When her aunt appears at the house and brings her to England, Isabel is in a situation to value any change that will rid her past.<br /><br />She is clever but not bookish; she has an immense curiosity about life and is constantly staring and wondering. Her presence at the Touchetts' residence in Gardencourt dictates an irresistible air of independence that is conducive to her strong but undemonstrative condition to control her fate. She is very fond of her liberty, as she has stated peremptorily from the very beginning, almost like an omen of her fate.<br /><br />The story of Isabel Archer is straightforward and nothing as complicated and melodramatic as that of the people surrounding her. The peripheral figures who supply the momentum of the plot also support the entire scaffold of the novel. Happenings of these peripheral figures construct Isabel's story. The importunate suitors whom she rejects constantly hover around her and create an effect that accentuates the assumption of a simplicity about her, whereas those who are to launch her on her destiny are relatively opaque and obscure. She is like an ideal entity that ambitiously but somewhat naively embodies a nobleness of imagination. She maintains an infinite hope that she should never do anything wrong.<br /><br />Her cousin Ralph Touchett almost plays the conscience of the novel as he gives up half of his inheritance to make her rich: Isabel is rendered independent in pursuing her exploration and enlightenment in life and is not put at the expense of anyone. He confronts her being obdurate in exploring something unknown and cajoles her that such persistence will only reap utter disappointment. But fate intervenes the stubborn mind in the shape of Ralph's friend, Lord Warburton, whose magnanimous offer she refuses at the revelation of her steel proof independence.<br /><br />Knowing his cousin's impregnable resolve to meet her destiny, Ralph wishes to make her rich and keeps her from marrying for money. He hopes he shall live long enough to see what Isabel does with herself, who lives too much in the world of her own dreams and has not enough contact with reality. Ironically her new fortune could have possibly shut her up more and bound her to a man to whose ego she succumbs and for whom she contrives to procure pleasure. His austerity, poverty, and loneliness, which Isabel associates to nobleness, interest her at first but manifest into an egotism that he takes as a personal offense of her having her own mind. In a way, Isabel's attempt to her fate ends up forfeiting it. His virtue implies a sovereign contempt for everyone. He has pointed out to her the baseness and shabbiness of life; he has opened her eyes to the stupidity, the depravity, and the ignorance of mankind. But he cannot tolerate her possession of her own mind.<br /><br />THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY paints the picture of the unhappiest of a woman whose fruit of life-long solitary experience turns out to be discernment of her short-coming. Her enlightenment is as hopeful an outcome as her poignant marriage: she must not lose all her life simply because she has lost a part. In her lonely search with an inquiring spirit, she finds herself always at the mercy of others less scrupulous than herself and those who confront her own simplicity and naivet&eacute;.	2005-06-01
US	51341166	R3M71ZYS4XMCNX	0743272714	66101030	The Story of the Night: A Novel	Books	4	7	11	N	N	"...sneak into other world and find moments of pure pleasure	THE STORY OF THE NIGHT is an audacious and deeply moving novel about a man, Richard Garay, who hides his sexuality from his mother in during the time of military dictatorship. Stifled by his job, Richard is willing to risk new possibilities professionally and sexually. As the country is slowly changing and attaining peace, Richard tentatively begins to engage in a secret love affair that does not meet the approval of family and society. His mother is a proud, elegant English woman who will wreak a shrill revenge on Argentina when it is at war with the Britain for the sovereignty of the Falkland Islands She almost thrives too assiduously to preserve the English gentility, which she think the Argentineans lack, in her son. She mistakes Richard's reserve, his reticence, and his distance from her as gentility, thinking it is real but understanding that it is fear. <br /> <br />THE STORY OF THE NIGHT captures South America in its crucial times of political instability and turbulence: the ruthless purge of dissidents after the Chilean coup and the grim uncertainty of the transfer of power in Argentina. As England declares war on Argentina and sends its vessels southward in claiming the ownership of the Falkland Islands, Richard abrasively abandons his unpromising, stifling teaching job and to be under the wings of two American diplomats. The Americans have infiltrated the country, given grand parties with hired guests as a disguise, observed the political climate of the evolving country in order to ensure an orderly transfer of power to a civilian successor. Richard hoists a two-fold responsibility: to serve as a translator and to lobby the Americans in Senor Canetto's candidacy for presidency.  <br /> <br />THE STORY OF THE NIGHT develops in the backdrop of 1980s in which Argentineans were concerned with employment prospects, inflation, social welfare, stupidity of war, and the menacing disappearances of dissidents. The novel delineates the country in a manner so stultifying and inconsolable as THE LINE OF BEAUTY evokes the forlornness of England under Thatcher in the same decade. Both novels explores the impact that such rough political terrain exudes on an individual who makes choices in life that are deemed alternative. As Richard becomes an indispensable hand in assisting the privatization of oil industry, he has imperceptibly spiraled into an intimate relationship that is sealed with stalwart discretion. His desire to move from having a hidden, secret life with his partner to the aura of recognition, again, echoes to his counterpart in THE LINE OF BEAUTY. Little do they know that a much greater threat, one is that more formidable than being out to their family, prey on their life together. <br /> <br />THE STORY OF THE NIGHT tops the Lambda Literary Foundation's list of 100 most significant gay novels of all time. Beneath the equanimity of the narrative voice are a poignant novel of intimacy, sex, death, and the fear of connecting one's inner life with the outside world. It conveys the hidden fear of coming to family and the fear of elaborating same-sex relationship. The protagonist, on the other hand, is unrestrained in delineating the physical passion of his relationship, rendering it in shameless, exuberant details the scenes of his life that absorbs the needs for love and friendship. The prose exudes an explosive power of suggestibility, which bespeaks a pleasure that is only possible through a mutual understanding of physical contour and desire. <br /> <br />THE STORY OF THE NIGHT, strategically puts its protagonist in a country at a time that people shut themselves off to question authority and train themselves not to see the truth. The immediate effect is an accentuation of the protagonist's isolation from his family and the outside world out of his concealing of his sexuality. This tactic is not without flaw. The politics of the novel, which occupies over a third of the text, can render it dry and insipid. One point Richard Garay makes that really hits home to me (and thus redeem the dryness on all the politics issues) is that heterosexual engagement offers none of the excitement, effortless satisfaction, pure pleasure, and the sense of ease that he gets from being intimate with a man. The novel paints a powerful picture of intimacy and the deep terrain of relationship out of sheer suggestibility that percolates throughout the text. <br />	2005-05-01
US	51341166	R8DRBUSCY9XQU	0141439564	365726027	Great Expectations (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Moral redemption of ingratitude	Probably one of the most memorable Dickens characters, Philip Pirrup is known to most readers as Pip, the 7-year-old boy whom his short-tempered sister raised by hand. Little Pip infers that he has sustained, from as early as his babyhood, a perpetual conflict with injustice. He has known, from the time when he can speak and discern his surrounding that his sister, in her fits of caprice and violent coercion, is unjust to him. It seems to poor Pip that all the endearments in life brushes by him or bypasses him altogether. Fate has ineluctably deprived him of the lightsome hours that make our childhood a time to be remembered like a happy dream through all our after life. The bright side of growing up with his sister's fits of spleen is Pip's friendship with his brother-in-law Joe, who not only has taken him into apprenticeship but sanctified the house Pip calls home that is otherwise sullied by his sister's temper.<br /><br />A chance but terrifying encounter with an escaped convict for whom he brings provisions pilfered from the kitchen cupboard changes the entire course Pip's life. But it is not until he meets the beautiful, cold-hearted and haughty Estella during a summon to a decaying Miss Havisham that he sets his mind to whittle away his coarseness and to become a gentleman, one on Estella's account. The sudden but timely generosity of a mysterious benefactor comes to assist his making of a gentleman and promises a handsome property. The prospect of great expectations not only immediately relieves him from his ordinary sphere of life and frees him from apprenticeship with Joe, but also concurs with his eagerness to abandon his humble origins.<br /><br />GREAT EXPECTATIONS thus follows Pip's new life under his fortune and depicts his education, new relationships, and development through adversity as he slowly dawns on the true nature of his great expectations. The new life does not come without a catch as he finds himself living in a state of chronic uneasiness respecting his perfidious behavior to Joe, whose interference in his life he now regards as disturbance. The more Pip basks in the favor, privilege, and conviviality that is concomitant of his fortune, the more his is convinced of a happier life derived from simplicity and fidelity that only Joe can offer.  As he sidles closer to the truth about his benefactor's identity, a revelation for which he is not prepared struck him.<br /><br />GREAT EXPECTATIONS is a story of moral redemption with a prodigal son-like protagonist in the orphaned Pip. The tale is extremely straightforward but is woven with substantial issues he has to deal with. Eager to shred his humble roots, he promptly disavows family and friends at the prospect of a fortune. As the fortune loses its luster and eventually dissipates altogether, he confronts his own ingratitude and learns to love the man who both creates and destroys him, figuratively speaking. Dickens deftly validates Pip's redemption by showing that it produces good deeds as well as good works. This is especially worthy of merit because the novel is told in Pip's first person narrative. Mishandling of the narrative might render the whole tale unconvincing.<br /><br />The proof of Pip's redemption comes laden with good deeds rather than airy words: his clandestine acts of kindness in securing Herbert a partnership in business, and in securing Miss Havisham's respectable opinion of the long-suffering Matthew Pocket, and in his refusing to accept money from Miss Havisham, and most significantly in his love for the man whom has bequeathed him with the fortune.respecting his perfidious behavior to Joe, whose interference in his life he now regards as disturbance. The more Pip basks in the favor, privilege, and conviviality that is concomitant of his fortune, the more his is convinced of a happier life derived from simplicity and fidelity that only Joe can offer.  As he sidles closer to the truth about his benefactor's identity, a revelation for which he is not prepared struck him.<br /><br />GREAT EXPECTATIONS is a story of moral redemption with a prodigal son-like protagonist in the orphaned Pip. The tale is extremely straightforward but is woven with substantial issues he has to deal with. Eager to shred his humble roots, he promptly disavows family and friends at the prospect of a fortune. As the fortune loses its luster and eventually dissipates altogether, he confronts his own ingratitude and learns to love the man who both creates and destroys him, figuratively speaking. Dickens deftly validates Pip's redemption by showing that it produces good deeds as well as good works. This is especially worthy of merit because the novel is told in Pip's first person narrative. Mishandling of the narrative might render the whole tale unconvincing.<br /><br />The proof of Pip's redemption comes laden with good deeds rather than airy words: his clandestine acts of kindness in securing Herbert a partnership in business, and in securing Miss Havisham's respectable opinion of the long-suffering Matthew Pocket, and in his refusing to accept money from Miss Havisham, and most significantly in his love for the man whom has bequeathed him with the fortune.	2005-05-01
US	51341166	RFEM7RYD76KZK	0141181222	808414399	One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest	Books	4	24	31	N	N	"We need a good strong wolf like the nurse to teach us..."	ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST is more than a social commentary: it is an allegory-like hyperbole of the psychopathic obsession of the 1960s. The decade marked a drastic proliferation of books that looked at psychiatry and mental illness but garnered little diagnostic or therapeutic value. Despite the prestige of these publications that usually attuned to academic standard in intellectual circles, none of such literature had the widespread impact of this novel written by Kesey who worked the graveyard shift at a mental hospital in Menlo Park, California. He participated in government-sponsored drug experiments during his employment with this hospital and became sympathetic to the patients and began to seriously question the boundaries that had been created between the sane and the insane.  <br /> <br />ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST is an unforgettable story of a mental ward in which the despotic Nurse Ratched reigns over the doctor and all the inhabitants. She exercises a somewhat cultic tactics to render her patients completely submissive. In what she embellishes a Therapeutic Community, an outwardly democratic entity run by patients, she imperceptibly manipulates them into grilling each other as if they are criminals. She has over the years has welded an insurmountable power over the ward that even the doctor is rendered frightened, desperate and ineffectual. She has no need to accuse or to enforce obedience because all it takes to maintain that tight grip of power is insinuation, which allows her to force the trembling libido out of everyone without an effort.  <br /> <br />The Nurse's unchallenged tyranny begins to whittle as McMurphy, a 35-year-old Korean veteran who has history of insubordination and street brawls, resolves to oppose her every step of the way and raises the racket in her ward. His defiance is justifiable: he is surprised at how sane everyone is in the ward. Nobody and nothing in life have got much of a hold on this boisterous personality, who knows that there is no better way in the world to aggravate somebody (like the Nurse) who is trying to make it difficult for him than by acting like he is not bothered. McMurphy's fun-loving arrival at the ward brings about a different shade of opinion among the staff and the patients. The latter come following him as if he is their Savior, for he is utterly different and has not let what he looks like run his life one way or the other.  <br /> <br />ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST is narrated by a patient in the ward, a Columbia Indian whom everyone thinks deaf, mute, and unintelligible, but who throughout the years of his commitment has overheard all the trickery of staff meetings. He epitomizes the mishap of the erroneous boundary with which the sane separates them from the insane. McMurphy's arrival and his friendship with the Indian Chief spur him on to recover his own identity and rebuild his self-esteem. The novel examines the notion of madness in the sense of its own and in the sense of the term being patronized by mental institution. The narrator's seamless observation and eagle-eyed description of the ward illustrate salient flaws of such a mindless system that targets only at reducing patients' mental capability. Kesey considers whether madness really means the common practice that confines to a mindless system or the attempt to escape from such a system altogether. Like its audacious protagonist, the novel itself is a literary outlaw. <br />	2005-04-26
US	51341166	R3LGO0LA1DB90A	0140435123	16284361	Nicholas Nickleby (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	19	28	N	N	"To have committed no fault, yet to be so entirely alone..."	NICHOLAS NICKLEBY is a significant Dickens in the uncannily absorbing way the narrative diversifies to various literary discourses. The protagonist's experiences and encounters in adverse milieu through life not only embody melodrama, comic relief, political satire, class comedy, social criticism, and domestic farce, they allow Dickens the opportunity to portray, to the minutest nuance, an extraordinary cast of rogues and eccentrics. The main frame of NICHOLAS NICKLEBY is a quintessential Dickens: a generic, virtuous man who concerns with the affair of establishing his identity as a gentleman and the pruning of whom entwines him in a checkered fate. Nicholas Nickleby has committed no fault and offenses, and yet he is to be entirely alone in the world, to be separated from the people he loves, and to be proscribed like a criminal. The more unbearable the ordeals and the more injudicious the deal of the hand from life, the more profusely the novel accentuates Dickens' outrage at the cruelty and social injustice. <br /> <br />When Nicholas Nickleby is left exiguous after his father's death, he turns to his hard-hearted uncle to solicit succor. But Ralph Nickleby, a most unscrupulous and avarious man he is, demonstrates that he is proof against all appeals of blood and kindred, and is steeled against every tale of distress and sorrows. The man will never fail to exert any resolution or cunning that will promise increase of money for there is scarcely anything he will not have hazarded to gratify his greed. It's not that he is unconscious of the baseness of the means with which he acquires his gains. He cares only for gratification of his passions of avarice and hatred. He might have from the beginning conceived dislike to his nephew whom he brazenly places in Squeers' Dotheboys Hall, a school for unwanted boys, as an assistant master.  <br /> <br />The cruelty of Squeers, who's coarse and ruffian behavior even at his best temper, Nicholas has been an unwilling witness.The filthy condition of the school and the bodily distortion of the boys impart in him a dismal feeling. The thought of being a helper and abettor of such squalid practice fills his with honest disgust and indignation. The cruelties descend upon helpless infancy fuel this rightful indignation in Nicholas, who interferes with the schoolmaster's flogging a boy named Smike and astonishes everyone in school. <br /> <br />Not only does Ralph persuade Nicholas' family to renounce him for the atrocities to Squeers of which he is guilty, he also betrays his niece Kate into the company of some libertine men who are clients of his and who speak of her in a most casual, lecherous, ribald and vulgar terms. She is roused beyond all endurance by a profusion of compliments of which coarseness becomes humor and of which vulgarity softens down to the most charming eccentricity. The mutual hatred between uncle and nephew aggravates as Nicholas overhears conversations about his sister. The hidden feud further percolates to the surface and leads to a pitch to its malignity as he tries to rescue a girl from a marriage to which she has been impelled.  <br /> <br />As the uncle insidiously hatches a scheme to retaliate against his nephew who has in every step of the way interceded and thwarted his plans for mercenary gains, Nicholas entwines with a cast of characters who are humorous, memorable, and true to life. Peripheral to his molding to become a gentleman are episodes of political satire, theatrical success, courtship, family farce, and chicanery. The most significant character is no doubt Smike, whom Nicholas saves from the hellish grip of the schoolmaster and has become his best friend. Nicholas' unfailing love and protectiveness toward the boy accentuates his being the novel's hero, whose domestic virtues, affections, compassion, and delicacy of feelings qualifies him to his later fortune and does him justice. <br /> <br />NICHOLAS NICKLEBY is a flamboyantly exuberant work in which Dickens wreaks the tension of his social satire to a pitch. Details on the Yorkshire school offer such magnifying vision of the cruelty, filthiness, and despotism in the boarding schools. Nor does he spare the rogues and the greedy, whose squeamishness he sarcastically embellishes as a common honesty and whose pride as self-respect. NICHOLAS NICKLEBY also evokes the subtle problem of human nature in establishing boundary of one's remorse. Although Ralph might feel no remorse in his betraying his niece to the temptation of his libertine clients, he hates them for doing what he has expected them to do.  <br /> <br />In a sense, Nicholas is seen as the unswerving force that is determined to right the wrong of the society. He tries to appeal to the compassion and humanity of those who have gone astray and to lead them to consider the innocent and the helpless. Nicholas might embody energy for radicalism and ambition to challenge social injustice; his ultimate goal is the recovery of his ancestral position in the social hierarchy. But in the effort to undertake the good deeds, he is influenced by no selfish or personal consideration but by pity for the people he helps and detestation and abhorrence of the heartless schemes.  In the same way he is determined to appeal to his uncle's humanity and not to wreak revenge on him. But Ralph's hatred for his nephew has been fed upon his own defeat, nourished on his interference with all his schemes.  <br /> <br />NICHOLAS NICKLEBY is a sober social commentary woven with social and domestic issues. Woven in one man's aspiration to restore family's ancestral dignity is Dickens' own musing, monologues, teachings on the soul, the life, and the moral. The discourse at times assumes a voice of despondency, sobriety and indignation. <br />	2005-04-26
US	51341166	RAPEAY32A9GW2	0425195961	963797502	Will	Books	4	2	3	N	N	"On my living stage I will tell the truths."	Grace Tiffany's WILL is a solid testimony to the rising and flourishing of one of the greatest playwright and poetry in history. The legend of a master began in the library of Will's recusant uncle, whose collection ranged from Ovid's Metamorphoses to Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, greatly enthralled the school-aged Shakespeare. Uncle Edward's adamant denial of the Protestant and his audacious refusal to the Queen's Protestant faith had ineluctably, and inveterately imbued in Shakespeare the staunch conviction to speak against the absurdity of monarchy. <br /> <br />The time was 1588 in London, a dark and grim period in which a plague decimated the city at the backdrop of an imminent war. The Catholic Spain, without its stupendous fleet and navy power, threatened to sail its gunboats up the Thames. Struggling Puritans and papists dared to defy the Protestant Queen Elizabeth who relentlessly executed her enemies and pinned their heads on the pikes of London Bridge to rot. With an amazing gift of words and iambic meter, Shakespeare deftly deflected his mocking against the Queen to his poetry, which he embellished with parodies, nuanced words and satires couched in rich metaphor. It was with the pulchritude of poetry's doubleness and roundness that Shakespeare's jests against the reign was left unnoticed, though many of the lines were no less provocative than the incendiary jests spun by the seditionist. Even if the Queen herself might have sensed that he hovered just out of her sight and whispered those lines to her beneath his breath, she found no evidence of treason in his plays. <br /> <br />The making of a master did not come about without a catch. Whether it was really flesh that had intervened, Shakespeare's tight grip of his dream took a toll on his marriage. Anne was plaintively sure that he did not love her when the plague closed the theaters in London and he never came home to Stratford, but instead went to Southampton to write poetry for earl Henry Wriothesley. His prolonged absence from home put as much a strain on his marriage as in his relationship with three children. His beloved son Hamnet, who had always drawn and held his gaze during his brief stay, died in a mishap that sprang from the child's longing for his father. His daughter Judith, who bore the guilt of the death of her brother, yearned to say the verse in order to seek redemption from her father through speaking on a stage. Midsummer's Night Dream yet again shows the playwright's success is fueled by his private tragedy. <br /> <br />Shakespeare's tour-de-force in writing and his gifts in probing his audience won his a fellowship of players, a band of brothers. This blessing inevitably also invited jealousy, rivalry and feud. The baby-faced Christopher Marlowe was one perfect example. He snobbishly jeered at Shakespeare's lack of a university education and stigmatized him as being a mere dishlicker of learning. A thieving knave on Marlowe's part enraged Shakespeare and caused them to be at enmity with one another. Marlowe had the effrontery to steal Will's tit-for-tat idea and used it in his own play. He even buried bribed Philip Henslowe, owner of the Rose Theater, not to show any of Will's plays to the players. Was it not for the phenomenal success of Henry VI, Will's two comedies that were buried at the bottom of a pile of scripts would never be performed at the Rose. <br /> <br />WILL is well-researched, well-written, engrossing, and beguiling novel of a master in the making during a turbulent time. It is a testimony to how indefatigably a man followed his heart to fulfill his dream with an indomitable passion. He took minor parts when suddenly asked, stayed around the theater to watch the plays even when he wasn't. When he played he completely melted into his part and left no vestige of him. He had a knack to grab accurately and pull his audience's heartstring. WILL enlivens the life of London during Shakespeare's time and etches a portrait of a man whose public success of his plays is fueled by his private tragedy. <br />	2005-03-21
US	51341166	R2QP12JMD9LMIR	1582345082	570121918	The Line of Beauty	Books	4	8	8	N	N	"Secrets are simply things that can't be told..."	Elegantly written with salvage details of sex, THE LINE OF BEAUTY however, is not a gay fiction, but a literary piece that portrays a political period through the eyes of a gay protagonist. It embodies the grand metaphor of what Thatcher did to Britain in the 80s and also the personal temptation-pulsed journey of Nick Guest. It reminisces the lasting sense of unhappiness and dismay and how awful Maggie's Britain was. In a wider sense, the novel is an oblique look, one that is both imaginative and interesting as it approaches the sense of forlornness through the eyes of someone like Nick who was absorbed by it and thought it was all rather glamorous. The novel slowly unveils through Nick's journey to relationship, with his lovers and that with the MP household. He is rather weak and easily led but morally pliable. He could be wholly corrupted but he knows his limits and is prune to many temptations, which seem to characterize the novel's times.  The novel exposes to the full the idea of an absolute instability and frailty when the country seems to lose its common sense. <br /> <br />THE LINE OF BEAUTY is a significant novel in its historical and political essence. It is a painstaking, disconcerting, and savage delineation of the Thatcher years as seen through the tale of Nick, who finds himself living in the attic room of the stately mansion of ascendant Tory politician Gerald Fedden and his family. Nick is a just-coming-out Oxford graduate and is secretly in love with Fedden's straight son Toby. An affair with a young black clerk gives Nick his debut romance, but also alerts him with lurking crisis of his gay identity. He feels he might look like a person with no friends. He is extremely sensitive to anything that might be said. He feels he has the wrong kind of irony, the mistaken knowledge, the inappropriate sarcasm for gay life. With a tinge of innocence and careful curiosity that will later whittle away in time, he is faintly shocked, among other emotions and interest and excitement, at the idea of a male couple. <br /> <br />It is later secret affair with a millionaire, a film-maker, his college friend Wani that changes Nick's life drastically and rids all his boyish innocence and curiosity on aspects of being gay. A handsome Lebanese and the only son to an old-valued man who owns a supermarket chain, Wani, with an indefeasible family instinct, exacts totally secrecy in his affair with Nick. It is not sure whether he pretends to be straight or chooses to keep a low-profile with his affair. To him, for sure, his family is as natural as sex and as irrefutable in its demands. His \\"fiance\\", a female companion whom he pays, is just a front. Everything Wani and Hick do: the surreal montage of sexual conspiracy and the drug escapade is clandestine that Wani has slipped away into a world his father has never imagined. <br /> <br />Though Nick might have entertained the thrill of wandering away from strict truth, tricking people and longing for scandalous acclaim of the secret affair, he finds himself compelled to tell the truth, and to vocalize all the mischievous beauty. The deep connection between them is so surreptitious that at times it is difficult to believe it exists. The cultivation of their love requires indifference. It is an intuition blinked away by its own absurdity, the very element that charms and hypnotizes them. Wani's strict discretion originates from his father casting high hope on him, the only son, after his brother was killed in a car accident in Beirut. Wani has shouldered that burden of family mourning since childhood and seems more touching, more glamorous and more forgivable at the revelation of the mishap. It therefore aggrandizes the affair, which becomes more convincing not to be mistaken for the squeeze of guilt. <br /> <br />The novel carefully winds down towards a shocking and forceful denouement in which the entire political decade is expertly drawn as a human sham. Regardless of the lucid elaboration of sex and drugs, which might have raised highbrow of literary elite, the novel has scooped the Booker Prize. The explicit physical content in THE LINE OF BEAUTY is nothing compared to Hollinghurst's 1988 debut THE SWIMMING POOL LIBRARY, which is riddled of even more explicit scenes all the way through it. The gay protagonist in the novel of current interest, however, does not isolate himself in a strange way and whose contact with the world is not entirely sexual. THE LINE OF BEAUTY is clearly about things other than being gay: a social commentary perhaps and it almost becomes somewhat irritating if it is used to imply that that is all there is to the book. Merely looking at it as gay fiction will not do justice of its fine writing and buried meaning. <br />	2005-03-21
US	51341166	R2TR0M1FCDH9NW	1594200106	734819982	The Shadow of the Wind	Books	5	5	7	N	N	"...everything related to him seemed to be shroud in mystery."	THE SHADOW OF THE WIND takes a line of betrayal, lost friendship, hatred, love, and dreams that lived in the shadow of the wind. It is a touching homage to the mystical power of books that serve as mirrors to offer us what already carry inside us. Very few novel like the one in question powerfully illustrates how a book can incite sentiment buried deep inside our heart that only become unleashed at a certain time and at a certain stage of life's walk, upon the stimulation of a message.<br /><br />For Daniel, the son of a Barcelona bookseller, Julian Carax's novel seems to be waiting for him even before his birth on the shelf of the clandestine Cemetery of Forgotten Books, a most best-kept secret of the city. It is a library tended by the city's guild of rare-book dealers as a repository for books forgotten by the world, waiting for someone, a dedicated bibliophile, who will care about them and relish them again. Destiny is for sure at work regardless of whether it is Daniel who chooses Julian Carax's book or the book itself does choose him. The mystery Daniel yet to demesmerize, peel by peel, strip by strip, layers by layer, ineluctably binds people from chance encounter in life together through a strange chain of destiny.<br /><br />The bookseller, Daniel's father, initiates his son into the secret of the Cemetery of Forgotten Books to console him of his despondency over the loss of memory of his mother's face. As his father coaxes him to choose a book that will carry ineffable meaning and irresistible appeal for him from the seemingly boundless, spiraling labyrinth of shelves, Daniel picks Julian Carax's THE SHADOW OF THE WIND, which intrigues him. The novel, its character, which later on brings out of the pages and chases after him, and its mysterious author, at once fascinates him. He refuses to sell the book at any price, guards it as his most precious possession and adopts it for life.<br /><br />To Daniel's shock, a strange person who later reveals to him to be a man deprived of any facial feature, has been systematically and assiduously destroying every single copy of every book Julian Carax had written. Collectors either sell off or surrender altogether their remaining copies to the man for fear of deadly mishap despite the high values of the books. It intrigues Daniel even more as he realizes he may possess the very last copy of Carax's books in existence.<br /><br />Daniel, with the complicity of the witty Furmin, an ex-spy, ventures to unravel the mystery of Julian Carax only to realize all his findings, leads, second-hand rumors, third-hand stories, vague memories, and opinions are nothing but scrapes of an iceberg: they only add to Carax's enigma. Barcelona is the city in which Carax was born and from which he disappeared without a trace at the start of the war.<br /><br />Further investigation leads Daniel to Penelope Aldaya who sits at the center of the whole mystery, with whom she was enmeshed in a heart-piercing romance relationship. Their love is an act of defiance, arrogance, and subversion: love that is a blind desire to be discovered, a secret that hopes to be laid open, a love that devours them. What he starts off as an innocent quest to rescue Carax from recesses of the past becomes a connecting-the-dot reconstruction of a heart-rending love tragedy with sharp nuances of those who were involved. It also offers a peek of the city's past that was forgotten and ruined after the war.<br /><br />Carax's unswerving desire to lead a private life as if he is no longer interested in the world makes the deepest impression on Daniel. His book conveys a unique message to Daniel and impregnates his resolve to discover his life. For every book has a soul: the soul of the person who writes it and that of the one who reads, lives, and dreams with it. Daniel relates to Carax's battered love life as his relationship with Beatriz is under fire. Carax's checkered fate might have awakened a strange but tender sympathy in Daniel, which prompts him to carry on the probe.<br /><br />THE SHADOW OF THE WIND is an uncannily absorbing mystery, a heart-piercing love story, and a literary historical fiction. It pays homage to the mystical power of a book when it finds the reader to whom it appeals and in whom awakes a tender affection and sense of relatability. The novel spins off to numerous leads from the beginning and, with cunning decoys and twists, throws one to dead ends and false tracks which reader often takes to be the truth. The imminent sense of reaching the bottom of the truth often adds to the enigma. The bright side of this punctilious craft of convolution is a tight-knitted plot, spans over intervals of time and memory, riddled of a haunting suspense. One would find the figure of Julian Carax increasingly intriguing as everything related to him seems to be shrouded in mystery. Each of the people involved in this mystery is poisoned by the troubled memory of what he/she feels has been snatched from him/her. The novel is therefore, in a paradoxical way, a homage to the kind of true love that is capable of wrecking what stupendous a damage that Julian Carax has suffered.niel, which prompts him to carry on the probe.<br /><br />THE SHADOW OF THE WIND is an uncannily absorbing mystery, a heart-piercing love story, and a literary historical fiction. It pays homage to the mystical power of a book when it finds the reader to whom it appeals and in whom awakes a tender affection and sense of relatability. The novel spins off to numerous leads from the beginning and, with cunning decoys and twists, throws one to dead ends and false tracks which reader often takes to be the truth. The imminent sense of reaching the bottom of the truth often adds to the enigma. The bright side of this punctilious craft of convolution is a tight-knitted plot, spans over intervals of time and memory, riddled of a haunting suspense. One would find the figure of Julian Carax increasingly intriguing as everything related to him seems to be shrouded in mystery. Each of the people involved in this mystery is poisoned by the troubled memory of what he/she feels has been snatched from him/her. The novel is therefore, in a paradoxical way, a homage to the kind of true love that is capable of wrecking what stupendous a damage that Julian Carax has suffered.	2005-03-15
US	51341166	R6OUVMRT9PWRG	0679722564	570736767	The Swimming-Pool Library	Books	4	13	15	N	N	"Desires, brutal or tender, silent but evolved,..." A charm.	THE SWIMMING-POOL LIBRARY is a literary fiction with a shimmering elegance about a young aristocrat who lives off his inherited estate and leads a life of promiscuity. A chance meeting with Lord Nantwich, an old Africa hand and founder of the prestigious London Wick's Club, lands William Beckwith into a research project that evolves to become the old man's biography. Wovens with his assiduous riffling of Lord Nantwich's materials are nuanced episodes of sexual rapport William engages with men at whom he flirtatiously smiles at the gym. The prose is ebulliently literary and suggestive, but not prurient. Page after page of the novel is riddled with the elaboration of bare intimacy, the explosive liberation of libido, the palpitating anatomy that preludes to carnal pleasure, and the audacious verbalization of physical gestures. Something masculine momentarily bridles as our protagonist ventures into casual number with strangers.  <br /> <br />The writing of Lord Nantwich's biography is as much a matter of probing his memory for links and identifications and of reading his personalia as examining his own life for William. The old man's eventful and seemingly eccentric life so often evokes and echoes William's own feelings, and at times brings him to the edge of difficult emotional terrain. The arrival of his anti-gay grandfather, who has spent all his life in circles where good manners, conservative family values, and plain callousness conspire to avoid any recognition or vestige that homosexuality even exists, intensifies the poignancy of such feelings.  <br /> <br />Leading his life the way he does, it is strangers who by their very strangeness quickens William's pulse and makes him feel alive. Regardless of the irrational sense of absolute security that springs from the conspiracy of carnal pleasure with men, shares something more genuine and cultivated with his close friend James with whom the friendship is sealed with a playfulness, privacy, tenderness, secrecy anda tacit understanding. William and James somehow enact some charade, whose very subject is secrecy, one that even permits his reading of James' diary from which he is obliged to see himself from his friend's perspective. The friendship, though has remained sexless for a long time, nourishes a nervous pleasure at the certainty of companionship when needed. The friendship preponderates the kind of seize-the-moment relationship William shares with Phil, who might have lived a double life as William begins to suspect at the faintly sickening possibility of his being unfaithful. <br /> <br />THE SWIMMING-POOL LIBRARY exposes the day-to-day episodes of gay life. Nipping into a library of uncatalogued pleasure is a realm of halt, darkness, and unknown possibility. It is in this uncharted territory where the difference between sex and companionship becomes blurry. William's affair with the underage bellboy Phil is one of ephemeral pleasure, glutting eroticism, and raw voluptuousness. Lies beneath all the vivid illustration of desires is the concern of an emptiness that has, for example, manifested in James: when one is beyond love, where does pleasure lie? Is there ever an end to the irresistible, normal craving for sex? Or does this go tauntingly on? The root of his loneliness and eccentricities, his uninvestigated and inhibited private life, is not uncommon to everyone: the humiliation of stark rejection and the terrible feeling that no one ever notices him or remembers him. <br /> <br />THE SWIMMING-POOL LIBRARY, a 1984 debut, is an enthralling, darkly erotic novel of homosexuality before the scourge of AIDS. It welds the standard elements of fiction to a tale of transgressions with the emphasis being on sensitive and censurable materials. It tells of impurities with shimmering elegance, of complications with a quick wit, and of truths with a fiction's solidity. It embodies a gloomy, sober, and functional underworld-full of life, purpose, and sexuality.  <br />	2005-02-25
US	51341166	R2L15BS71SP7TZ	0140077022	981253911	White Noise (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	"Fear is therefore self-awareness raised to a higher level."	WHITE NOISE muses on an inescapable subject that confronts all of us: death. The narrative swiftly zooms in and out of Jack Gladney's outward poise as an academic authority and his inward sepia maze of jittery moments, fear, and nightmare of death sweat. The text, despite its crispness and modernity, radiates an epic quality as if the novel becomes a literary event of death. Jack is the chairman and the creator of the department of Hitler Studies, a well-established system of the Nazi figure that endows the college to fame. Together with his colleague Murray, who anticipates on founding an institute evolving around Elvis on the same magnitude, they muse on death. <br /> <br />Happily married to the Hitler expert is Babette, who possesses a careless dignity of someone too preoccupied with serious matters to know what she looks like. She seems to be pretty content with her family life, which comprises of children from both her and his previous marriages, but, like her husband, Babette is overly death-savvy. The question haunts them: who will die first? The thought of her husband's dying first leaves an abyss in her life, and she is set to engage in a clandestine experimentation that might to lead to a pill that rids of the fear of death.  As their touching unfolds against the backdrop of an airborne toxic event that sends the whole town into juggle and paranoia, WHITE NOISE exposes the human obsession with mortality and fear of death to the fullest extent.  <br /> <br />Jack and his wife's irrational conviction to overcome the fear of death might have overleaped to the point of morbidity; but the universal fear of mortality is confirmed through the paranoid state stirred up by the chemical spill. WHITE NOISE candidly exposes people's lingering fears about themselves and those whom they love. Do they simply wear a disguise or pretend the fear is not there? Do they think indifference will drive away the fear? Do they just hide the fear from one another out of mutual consent? <br /> <br />Jack's sense of danger is valid in the sense that death is so vague and about which nobody knows. Death is a substatic buzz. An electrical sound. White noise like the TV fuss. A power of suggestion. On top of the social comedy and a disaster, WHITE NOISE is a philosophical musing on how death, despite its immutability and eternal threat, provides a boundary and gives a precious texture to life. Death embellishes life with a sense of definition, to guage the beauty and meaning of what a human being does in his lifetime.  <br />	2005-02-14
US	51341166	R2R6KF8TTD56IP	0375701907	635714194	Straight Man: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hilarious but heartbreaking novel of life's pettiness	In this hilarious but heart-breaking novel, Richard Russo paints a vividly true-to-life picture of the tragedy of a man who appears to have got it all in life. Henry William Devereaux Jr. is a 50 years-old professor of English serving as an interim chair of a department that is never in consensus in a badly underfunded college in a rusty locale of Pennsylvania. The pettiness of work politics and the turbulent drama among the personnel that enshrouds his department strikes him off guard like a belated mid-life crisis.  <br /> <br />In the course of a week Henry, an anarchist in heart with a lack of political acumen, is mangled by an angry colleague in his nose, battered by the wave of rumors auguring an impending university-wide purge, swept by a surging sentiment among the mutinous colleagues who threatened a recall.  And to top it all, he dreads the returning of his father who left him and his mother for the first of his female graduate students some 40 years ago. <br /> <br />Henry's determined reticence and the complaisance rooted in his character somehow galvanize the silent tension that reigns over him and his colleagues. So long as he dismisses the purge as rumors, his friends and colleagues think he is committing political suicide and are ready to strangle him. This is where his character flaw being fully exposed, that in the face of life's seriousness, its pettiness, its tragedy, its absurdity, and its lack of coherent meaning he seems to be unusually ignorant and indifferent, and sadly, he finds himself defenseless. This is where his tragedy lies dormantly until something as pathetic as the pettiness of people politics at work evokes its existence.  His tragedy lies in the fact that he is too reasonable, being overly logical. So long as he can maintain the public posture that does not call him out of his comfort zone, he remains complaisant and unchallenged. His complaisance demonstrates that a great deal of havoc can be wrought in relationship (especiallythe ones that are no longer remediable) by anyone so inclined, at least if that person is sufficiently insensitive to ridicule, personal invective and threat. <br /> <br />The mellow professor's sudden flamed-up reaction surprises all that is used to his insensitiveness. His threat to kill a duck (a goose!) on TV camera at the frustration of not receiving a budget serves more than just a comic relief of the tension that builds up incessantly. The escapade almost bespeaks his formidable conviction of refusing to sell out his colleagues; and on top of it he radically comes out of his nut-shell to protest injustice of the university administration. On facing the accusation of killing a goose of which he does not deny being the perpetrator, even his staunch political allies have aligned themselves against him. They speak of him performance as chair, detailing of many grievances, suspecting him of aiding the administration in the purge, and misinforming and betraying the department. At the core of this crisis he has to confront the question: Does he really belong? He is either to live among his colleagues who are as flustered, complacent, deadwood and tenuredly banal as the geese, or he should take a respectful leave and leave behind the squalor of politics. <br /> <br />STRAIGHT MAN alerts not only its protagonist but all his witnesses the conflicts, wounds, unsettled scores we have never come to terms with, that sneak up on us, insisting upon immediate attention and action, if not resolution. His cowardice is always understood to be the sole impediment to his reconciling with his philandering, distant father. This cowardice manifests in his assiduous contribution, under a pseudonym, of satires on academic lunacy which has raised ire of the university personnel. While one might laugh and feel disconcerted at Henry's vices, it's also time to reconsider issues in life that one has so adamantly evaded.  <br /> <br />	2005-02-07
US	51341166	R3LM1QPYAM3IRI	0140184945	158590394	The Comedians (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Major serious novel on Haiti	THE COMEDIANS, with its simple plot and small cast of characters, is a vision to a country under absolute dictatorship that is perpetually serious and intense. It closely shadows there men who encounter one another on a ship bound for Port-au-Prince, Haiti, a world that evokes the surveillance-infested society in Orwell's 1984. Haiti, at least under Greene's pen, is a world in the grip of corrupt Papa Doc and his omnipresent retinue of secret police, the Tontons Macoute.  <br /> <br />On the verge of entering a land where only nightmares are real and even more real than the people themselves, these men: a hotelier Brown, a confidence man Jones, and a seemingly eerie but innocent ex-Presidential Election candidate Smith, all imperceptibly hide behind their facades, act punctiliously, and hesitate on the edge of life. Brown is an Englishman who returns to the Haitian capital from New York looking for potential buyer of his hotel. Smith, a man who is fearless of political gestures and chicanery, devotes to a lifelong mission to lobby the government in establishing a vegetarian center. Jones, the most obscure and shady of the three, gives the impression that he is engaged on some secret project with the government. Indeed, he tries to sabotage a supply of arms to the Tontons Macoute in order to slowly rid Doc Papa of power and dissemble the tight-knitted network of secret police. <br /> <br />These are all comedians - living behind the mask and feigning. For a man of such ambiguity as he, whom everyone trusts so little, Jones really has a knack of winning friendship. Equally as shady but all the more embracing is Brown who harbors a secret affair with the wife of a South American ambassador. She is, however, markedly the opposite of him: she is not a comedian but is someone who is endowed with a decided directness and a virtue of straightforwardness. Not until the end of the affair does Brown dawn on the fact that she is no comedian. Brown's cowardice is always alludedto be the impediment to his being rooted deep enough to make him a home and to make him secure with love.  <br /> <br />So much as the characters call for being comedians, Haiti and the character of Doc Papa and his rule are as real as the nightmares and horror. The Tontons Macoute was full of men more evil than Concassuer and other militant characters potrayed. The interrupted funeral and the stealing of dissidents' bodies were drawn from fact. THE COMEDIANS, though as light as its title might have alluded, is a major serious novel of Haiti and the residual aspects after the spell of torture. <br />	2005-02-07
US	51341166	R1NBALM5133O1	0375726349	301023145	The Human Stain: American Trilogy (3)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	"The truth about us is endless. As are the lies."	THE HUMAN STAIN explores the relationship between public and private life in America during the second half of the 20th century. Like his few other novels, Philip Roth narrates the novel through his alter ego, Nathan Zuckerman, who after a prostate surgery became impotent and worked as a retired writer. Zuckerman crossed path with our protagonist, Coleman Silk, in a seemingly preposterous situation. Everyone knew about Coleman's affair with a woman half his age. Nor did people not know about the secret of his racism, which severed his well-established tie with Athena College of which he had been professor for nearly forty years. <br /> <br />Readers will eventually learn that Silk is a light skinned African-American who gradually drifted across the American racial divide and for 50 years has successfully passed as a white Jew. He thrives to take Zuckerman into his confidence about this deep lifelong secret that lies at the very core of his identity at the backdrop of the impeachment of President Bill Clinton, whose subversive affair with a White House intern emerged in every last mortifying detail in 1998. It was set at a time when \\"the jumble, the mayhem, the mess proved itself more subtle than one's ideology and one's morality.\\" <br /> <br />A supposed racism slur - \\"spooks\\" - forced Coleman Silk to resign and the accusation, Coleman understands, leads directly to his wife's death to heart attack, though the charge is both spurious and preposterous. But this is not his only nightmare. What is most unendurable is that he is drained to the last bucket of days, the time if there ever is a time to quit the quarrel, to give up the rebuttal, to end the protest to an untrue accusation, to undo himself from the conscientiousness with which he raised his family bound by a combative marriage, and on top to come to term with his secret. <br /> <br />Coleman Silk's tragedy is intrinsic that it has so firmly imprinted in his in his early years, at his painful realization the objective is for his fate to determine not by the ignorant, hate-filled intentions of a hostile world but by his own resolve.  So racism is just one example of evil, which, in Roth's rigorous and robust language, originates from his quest of purity, one that is racism-free. The lie, a shameful secret that has his lifetime magnetism, exists at the foundation of his relationship to his children who never have the opportunity to know their true ethnic identity. The lie impedes his relationship with his family, which has inevitably become an impediment, embarrassment, and taboo.  No wonder Coleman is left to his crushing sense of abandonment that festered into the wound that has led to his self-destructive isolation and too circuitously a tragedy. Coleman's original goal is to live in freedom and not a representative of his race. In the quest for this freedom he falls prey to a society in which racism issue compromises the public and private life of morality. <br /> <br />The prose of HUMAN STAIN is robust, matter-of-fact, mellifluous, and highly literate. The book is quite difficult to take in the sense that he takes the fanaticism of the social root of evil very seriously.  <br />	2005-01-09
US	51341166	R12J9K40EJH9FW	0142437913	270096890	Orient Express (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition)	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Everyday existence found at the bottom of suitcase	ORIENT EXPRESS differentiates from other Graham Greene's works, which are normally considered literary fiction of a serious writer, in its entertaining nature. It reads like an adventurous story whose every little detail exuded demands one's undivided attention in order to piece it all together. As the Orient Express hurtles across Europe on its three-day journey from Ostend to Constantinople, the driven lives of several of its passengers become bound together in a fateful interlock. The curious skein of characters include a beautiful chorus girl enroute to a performance, a rich Jewish businessman bound for a business deal, a mysterious, sinister-looking but kind doctor returning to his native Belgrade after being fugitive for five years, a cunning murderous burglar who had fled a crime, and a spiteful journalist who contrived to make the headline story. <br /> <br />Given the nature of these various characters and a backdrop that constitutes to a curious sense of suspension in a confined, onrushing train, ORIENT EXPRESS, though a less literary work, does not fail to combine the exotic and the romantic with the sordid and the banal. These passengers, who have little or nothing in common with one another that they will probably never overlap have they not been assigned in the same car, retain their own life drama, conditions and secrets under the changing skies. The meanness of everyday existence is found at the bottom of every suitcase, and has in fact been packed along with everything else.  <br /> <br />It doesn't seem obvious at first that ORIENT EXPRESS bespeaks self-sacrifice and betrayal. It is the usual case when people are far from home and routine that they will stair to make an unwonted exertion of the spirit or the will. The book, though its contrariety of style to Greene's other works, turns out to be a useful if not fortunate failure in containing the themes of self-sacrifice and betrayal. It is almost unexpected that the train, the passengers, and thedirection to which the train steered symbolize a time period and the revolution. <br /> <br />	2005-01-07
US	51341166	R3HMB2D5LM33A0	0811215482	299351040	Summer in Baden-Baden	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Russian novel on love and suffering	Leonid Tsypkin never saw his work published in his lifetime. For him, the posthumous SUMMER IN BADEN BADEN was a matter of honor that everything of a factual nature in the novel is true to the story and the circumstances of the real lives it evolves. It creatively proposes a two-fold narrative that travels back and forth in time from the start. The \\"presence\\" was wintertime. The narrator is on a train bound for Leningrad (once and future St. Petersburg) in mid April 1867. A flashback in time takes Tsypkin to the Dostoyevskys, who have just left St. Petersburg and were on their way to Dresden. Tsypkin, in what perspicacious and punctilious nature of a physician, thoroughly researched account of their travels and the passages where he described his own engagement are wholly autobiographical.  <br /> <br />The originality of SUMMER IN BADEN BADEN lies in the way it swiftly moves from the dislocation of the narrator to the life of the peripatetic Dostoyevskys. Such dreamy nature does not clearly mark out a plot but delivers a sense of dreamy consciousness. The underlying framework is simple: Tsypkin, in his dream world, will stay in Leningrad for a few days, embarking on a solitary Dostoevsky pilgrimage that will end in a visit to the house where the writer died. In the other narrative, the newly wed Dostoevsky just began their impecunious travels. <br /> <br />SUMMER IN BADEN BADEN delivers a striking mental tour of Russian reality, making the novel a mere worship of Dostoevsky a rash understatement. Taken for granted were the sufferings of the Soviet era, from the Great Terror to the narrator's present: the purge of scholars, the unreasonable late-night arrest, the shortage of provisions, and inescapably the stories of the Leningrad Blockade. Tsypkin meticulously followed traces of Dostoevsky and his characters and summoned vivid memories from the past. He took pictures of the Raskolnikov house, of the old pawnbroker's house, of Sonechka's house and of buildings whereDostoevsky had lived during the darkest and most clandestine period of his life in the years immediately following threat of being stopped for filming unsuitable objects. Tsypkin even lingered around the spot where some drunken lout who punched him in the face overtook Dostoevsky. The victim begged the court to mitigate punishment on his assailant. <br /> <br />It is through the prism of Anna's excruciating grief that Tsypkin recreates the long deathbed hours in this book about love, married love and the love of literature. Dostoevsky had a difficult time believing that Anna Grigoryevna would become his wife and stenographer (taking down in shorthand words what he dictated to her) and remain in his house forever. She seemed to have yet felt the power she had already gained over and imbued into him. So much of Dostoevsky's debaucherous gambling had left Anna overwhelmed and frustrated. But the depth of the suffering and humiliation only galvanized and brought to the full actuality love and passion. Baden Baden became a symbol of nostalgia for the Dostoevskys. <br />	2005-01-05
US	51341166	R14TJGXCNDPKQ2	0140238107	692398731	The Master of Petersburg: A Novel	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Dostoevsky's heroes manifest in the form of allusion	Coetzee audaciously imagines the life of Dostoevsky in THE MASTER OF PETERSBURG. Unlike Leonid Tsypkin's SUMMER IN BADEN BADEN, a novel whose verisimilitude lends an amazing accuracy to that of a documentary, Coetzee's is a pure fantasy of the great 19th century Russian novelist. Set in 1869, when Dostoevsky was summoned from Germany to St. Petersburg by the sudden death of his stepson, the novel is at once a compelling mystery steeped in the atmosphere of pre-revolutionary Russia and a brilliant and courageous meditation on authority and rebellion, art and imagination. Dostoevsky under Coetzee's hand obsessively followed his stepson's spirit, trying to ascertain whether he was a suicide or a murder victim and whether he loved or despised his stepfather. <br /> <br />Coetzee deftly works up a mystery of the death of Pavel Alexandrovich and a haunting quasi-appearance of the dead from page one. Dostoevsky breathed in deeply, again and again, mentally begging his stepson's ghost to enter him. His grief for Pavel's death was poignant that being alive to him was like, at the moment, a kind of nausea, a desire to be extinguished and annihilated. Since the news came of the death, something had been ebbing out of him as if he was the one being dead: he died but his death failed to arrive. <br /> <br />No sooner had Dostoevsky convinced of his stepson's suicide did a seditionist belonging to the People's Vengeance unveil the truth about Pavel's death. Among Pavel's belongings was a piece of paper with a list of people to be assassinated. In the name of the sedition group, Pavel (who had yet murdered anyone) was to carry out the assassination as soon as signal was given. The assassinations were meant to precipitate a general uprising and to lead to the overthrow of the state. Did Pavel fear of the consequences, or did the People's Vengeance find him to be traitor and execute him?  <br /> <br />As Dostoevsky sidled to the heart of the matter, Pavel's death and his left-behinddiary revealed a national crisis: one that was redolent of the hideous face of hunger, sickness, and poverty. These were the ways in which real forces manifest themselves in the world. The forces had the origins in the centers of power. Pavel allegedly wrote, distributed subversive pamphlets and was believed to be murdered. Like the People's Vengeance, Pavel could have simply merged with the invisible people of the city and with the conditions that produced him, became underground man who chose to alienate from the hostility of the world. His death, therefore, became the underground group's bait to lure Dostoevsky from Dresden to St. Petersburg so he could write stories of people oppressed by the regime. In a way, Pavel was sacrificed for the cause of revolution, nothing short of martyrdom. But Dostoevsky did not understand how or for whom Pavel was sacrificed nor was he moved by the group's bitterness toward Russia. <br /> <br />The ingenuity of THE MASTER OF PETERSBURG lies in Cozetee's mindful association of the fantasized entities in his novel to Dostoevsky and his heroes, especially Raskolnikov, the underground man, and even Ivan Karamazov. These heroes from Dostoevsky's classics manifest in the form of a distant allusion in Cozetee's work, trickling into Cozetee's lines through a suggestiveness and pervasiveness. The seditionist fantasized a sort of re-creation, a new mindset and way of thinking almost as radical to that of Raskolnikov, who positioned himself on the same level as God and contrived to re-order the world and transcended his conscience. In other way the group resembled the underground man, as the group no longer acted in the name of ideas but in accord to the extreme of senses. It is through the tempestuous political backdrop Dostoevsky embarked on a journey to discovery of the relationship between father and son.  <br />	2005-01-05
US	51341166	R3GRW0467LKZG7	0743203313	65279771	The Blackwater Lightship: A Novel	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Heart-thumping novel tunes into silent language of family	THE BLACKWATER LIGHTSHIP explores the nature of relationship between family members and between friends. It is the story of three generations of an estranged family reuniting to tender an untimely death. As the story ominously unfolds, deeper and more unplumbed layers of the wounds, emotions, misunderstanding, and pent-up anger manifest as friends of dying Declan, who had been through all the difficult times in battling AIDS, joined the begrudged family. It was at such sober and difficult time like this that everyone, regardless of their past wounds, unforgiving grudges, and even moral disapproval of homosexual life, should forget their differences and prioritize Declan's comfort and happiness. <br /> <br />Helen dreaded breaking the news of her brother's sickness to her mother, Lily, not only because of the despondent nature of the incurable disease, but also due to the fact that she had deliberately excluded her mother from her life for 10 years. Ever since the row she had with her mother about moving to Dublin for school, Helen shut herself off to her mother, who had never got over the early, unexpected death of Helen's father. Helen could never forgive Lily of her abandoning her and her brother at the Granny's house after her father's funeral. Whereas for Lily, she had never expressed her pent-up fear and shame that descended in her immediately after the funeral. The years of ice and alienation unfortunately turned into a standoffish rife that excluded Lily from her daughter's life and family. Helen's bitterness toward her mother pervaded into her own family life, for her husband must have learned long ago to live with and manage the web of unresolved connections when he puzzled at her periods of withdrawal and caprice. <br /> <br />The ingenuity of the book lies in the intensive de-layering of such family grudges and magnification of feelings in a time of mourning. Even though Lily made a promise to herself upon the burial of her husband to do her best with thechildren, Helen's inveterate resentment rooted in the fact that her mother had taken her father away. In her morbid consciousness, Helen always fantasized her mother being forceful and pushy chasing after her, determined to stop her having her life. Helen wished her mother to tolerate people and accommodate their needs, but all Lily wanted was that Helen could take interests in her and her life.  <br /> <br />Friendship is an indefeasible element of this novel. Declan's friends have always been there fighting the disease and egging him on. When Lily was rude and hostile to his friends, telling them to leave him to her, they fearlessly confronted how they had been looking after him during numerous life-and-death occasions when the family did not even seem to be around. Paul stood his ground being the closest friend to Declan. He read all the relevant books and kept himself cognizant of the latest therapies. He knew what and how to make Declan comfortable and to mitigate his pain. Paul vowed staunchly that he would stay with Declan and he would never leave unless Declan asked him to. Declan even confided in him about his mother with phrases and sentences which were not edifying. Moved to such loyalty and love the friends showed Declan, the stiff family succumbed to what they said and was inspired to reconcile its own strife. <br /> <br />THE BLACKWATER LIGHTSHIP explores how true friendship can supercede relationship with family in a palpitating, brooding time of crisis. The fact that Declan chose not to trouble his mother, though he loved her, showed that the family was not as close to him as his friends were to him. This corroborated to the fact that his mother had no clue to his sexual orientation. Declan's fear of coming out to his mother and grandmother erected the barrier that stifled him to seek help from his family. He might be so afraid that his mother, at the knowledge of his sickness, would refuse to see him, even though he desperately wanted her to know and help him. Friendship not only filled this void but also dawned on the understanding, the de-icing, and finally the reconciliation of an unplumbed grudge that spanned over three generations of a family. Friendship offered to the family, with what openness and honesty, challenged the family's evasiveness. At one point in the book, the three friends were walking along on the beach, with Paul and Larry on either sides of Declan, quietly protecting him. This memorable scene epitomizes true friendship and is symbolic of the two lighthouses that unfailingly lights up Blackwater. Friends are guiding lights. <br /> <br />Last but not the least, a more submerged point. The novel reflects on the palpitating struggle of one's gay identity. The quintessential \\"I knew that I was gay, but I had done nothing about it\\", the self-denial, and the resolution toward love and gay marriage are all touched on in this moving tale. It is an intense tale of woe and redemption, full of entrancing stories about the characters that so fatefully overlap. It's a humanizing, heart-thumping novel that tunes into the silent language of family.  <br />	2005-01-05
US	51341166	R3EC3CP28P5HQZ	0679640118	177682081	The Varieties of Religious Experience	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Sift out from midst of discrepancy a common body of belief	William James's position is simple: he claimed to have no living sense of commerce with a God, deity, and the Divine for his life was limited to impersonal and abstract concepts which, as ideals, interested and determined him. The Varieties of Religious Experience, therefore, in apropos to his living philosophy, is not a pedagogy of religious doctrines, creeds, and channel to salvation. It is rather an objective treatment of the various phenomena encountered in religions at a psychological perspective.  James disclaimed to emphasize readers' mind of the enormous diversities which the spiritual lives of different men exhibit. Each of the subtopics (i.e. healthy-mindedness, sick soul, conversion, saintliness, mysticism, and philosophy) contributes an extraction from the privacies of religious experience some general facts which can be defined in formulas upon which everyone may agree.  <br /> <br />James has laid out the ultimate goal of the book in the first chapter: The quest for a mandatory general theory as to what the peculiarities in an entity should be which give it value for purposes of revelation. Such a theory, James throughout the book reminds and contends, should be a spiritual judgment according which an entity lays its foundation of values. Whatever conclusions one might arrive regarding religion, which is, after all, a private collection of a person's thoughts, emotions, and feelings, can be reached only by spiritual judgments which prompts sobriety. James concerns religion only at a personal level for religion is nothing more than the inner dispositions of man himself which form the center of interest, his conscience, his virtues, his vices, his helplessness, and his incompleteness - aspects that are at complete contrariety to the ecclesiastical organization. Religion appeals more like man's conscience or morality.  <br /> <br />James for the purpose of better illustrating his points on many occasions throughout the book uses very extreme examples. Forexample, ascetism practiced by saints could be self-mortifying and pathological. But James constantly reminds us that only through the most eccentric and extreme case studies are we able to see the more profound and distinguishing information.  The plethora of examples also safeguard the book from the common downfall of over-simplification in defining religion, which is the root of all absolution and one-sided dogmatism by which both philosophy and religion have been infested. The examples also demonstrate the reason for a variety of religions and the need of different religions. Lives of all men should not show identical religious elements because it is impossible that human beings in such different positions and with such different powers as human individuals are should have exactly the same functions and the same duties. Each from his peculiar angle of observation should take in a certain sphere of fact and trouble, challenges and goals, which each must deal with in a unique manner at the appropriate time.   <br /> <br />Another battleground is the conflict between science and religion. Knowledge about life (which is usually corroborated by religion) is one thing, effective occupation of a place in life, James contends, with its \\"dynamic currents passing through\\" one's being, is another. For this very reason, the science of religion may never be an equivalent of a living religion, which primarily concerns the interest of the individual in his private personal destiny and the thoughts that are carried on in terms of personality; and if one obdurately turns to the inner difficulties of such a science, one sees that a point comes when science must drop the purely theoretic attitude.  Metaphysical attributes of God, so much as they are merited by the intellectuals, must go because the meaning of any thought that finds its rest in belief is only determined by the conduct it is fitted to produce.  James believes feeling is the deeper source of religion, and philosophic and theological formulas are secondary products. Philosophy therefore can act as a mediator to redeem religion from unwholesome privacy and to give public status and universal right of way to its deliverances. For in theology, verbality has stepped into the place of vision and professionalism into that of life, resulting in a conglomeration of abstract, pedantic terms that have given the gist of one's knowledge of deity. After all, what really sustain religion are the private emotions, feelings, and sentiment. <br /> <br />James also devotes a great deal of his book on mysticism and sub consciousness. Human beings are alive or dead to the eternal inner message of the arts according as they have kept or lost the mystical susceptibility. Mystical experiences are ineffable, transient and passive. They are like sudden invasions of vaguely reminiscent consciousness. The conviction that \\"something\\" is genuinely transacted in this consciousness is the very core of living religion. James explains that this subliminal region is a continuation of the ordinary consciousness and manifests in the shape of a set of thoughts, feelings, and memories which are extra-marginal and outside of the primary consciousness altogether, but yet must be classified as conscious facts of some sort. And this is the central idea with which James pieces everything together: In religion we have a department of human nature with unusually close relations to the transmarginal or subliminal region. This religion, which is obviously the larger, unplumbed part of each of us in regard to among all states of consciousness, is the abode of everything that is latent and the reservoir of everything that passes unrecorded or unobserved. It harbors the spring of all our obscurely motived passions, impulses, likes, dislikes, and prejudices. Our limitations, hypotheses, fancies, superstitions, persuasions, convictions and in general all our non-rational operations come from this region. People, regardless of what religions they belong, share this common trait in the subliminal region. In persons deep in the religious life, the door into this region seems unusually wide open.  <br /> <br />The Varieties of Religious Experience gives a closer look in the behaviors evoked from the various religions. It is not meant to discredit any religions nor promotes specific faiths; it aims to map out how far certain attributes, be they metaphysical or moral, can be considered true. <br />	2004-11-29
US	51341166	R2UXRXKK9USWOW	0374528373	569503661	The Brothers Karamazov	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Conflict between faith and disbelief	Spiritually speaking, Dostoevsky worked on The Brothers Karamazov his entire life. The novel is one artistic embodiment riddled with everything he experienced, thought, and created. The central theme is a familiar motif: the conflict between faith and disbelief. This conflict is most accentuated by the personality duality of Ivan Karamazov and his dreamy encounter with the devil. The novel is a cumulation of Dostoevsky's life that in the topography of which his memories of childhood are united with the impressions of his final years. The three brothers, Dimitri, Ivan, and Alyosha are aspects of Dostoevsky's personality, three stages of his spirituality.<br /><br />Dostoevsky portrays the brothers as a spiritual unity with some collective personality in its triple structure. The principle of reason is embodied in Ivan, the atheist, logician, and innate skeptic. Dimitri represents the principle of feeling in whom one finds the sensuality of insects. The principle of will, realizing itself in active love as an ideal, is presented Alyosha. However much the novel resembles a psychological treatise and a theological epistle; Dostoevsky merely meant it to be a novel. Religious-philosophical material was introduced into the framework of the novel genre and treated according to its laws. A tense dramatic plot is constructed at the center of which stand an enigmatic crime, a murder mystery, rivalry within family, and an entangled love affair. The religious mystery is thus paradoxically joined with a mystery-crime novel, as the ideological masses are ineluctably drawn into the eddy of the convoluted action, and clashing together, produce effective outbursts. Notwithstanding all its depth in philosophical treatise and the musing of immortality and existence of God, the novel is one of the most captivating and popular works of Russian literature.<br /><br />Tension instantly builds up as the novel opens. The gathering at the Elder's Zosima's abode is an exposition of the characters and complication of the plot, as well as foreshadowing of the imminent fatality. The main protagonists are all presented together in this dramatic scene. The first clash between old Fyodor Karamazov and Dimitri takes place here. Ivan, whose essay establishes atheism, reason and logic, exposes his idea of the impossibility to loving mankind. The scandal anticipates the novel's tragic denouement. Tension mounts with each scene, and one inevitably becomes convinced of the possibility of the murder both practically and psychologically. The murder is a mystery for it seems only that the false denouement with Dimitri's stormy, unbridled character by contrast prepares the tragic tone of catastrophe. No less skillfully is the false murderer Dimitri places in opposition to the moral murderer Ivan. The frenzy of the former is not so terrible as the latter's cold hatred.<br /><br />Conflict between faith and disbelief is brought to the full actuality in Ivan's nightmarish encounter with the devil. It is obvious that Ivan's consciousness is torn between faith and disbelief for the idea is not resolved in his heart and fretted him. Ivan longs for a world riddled with rational consciousness as opposed to evil and suffering. In a way, proportionally as the apparent atheist withdrew into the shadows, the wrestler with God steps out into illumination. In other words, Ivan is not an atheist but a struggler in the faith. The keenness of Ivan's reasoning lied in that he renounces God out of love for mankind comes forward against God in the role of the advocate of all suffering creation. He asserts the existence of evil in the world shows that there is no God and denying sin, he absolves man of any responsibility for evil and fixes it upon God. All the force of Christianity is in the personality of Christ, who overcomes sin and death. But if there is no sin, then redemption is not needed.<br /><br />Ivan Karamazov echoes the Grand Inquisitor whose monologue culminates the work of Dostoevsky's whole life: his struggle for man. In it he discloses the religious foundation of the personality and the inseparability of faith in man from faith in God. To the Anti-Christ freedom is a torment for freedom leads to evil. Under the false compassion for the sufferings of mankind is hidden in a diabolic hatred of human freedom and the image of God in man. This is what stuck Ivan Karamazov. The monologue contains a \\"proof by the contrary\\" in which the censure of Christ is turned into his glorification. His negative argumentation suddenly transforms into a positive one. The Inquisitor reproaches Christ for having imposed an intolerable burden of freedom upon mankind, having demanded an impossible perfection from it and, having acted as if He did not love at all. Dostoevsky, through a proof of the contrary, shrewdly makes the greatest spiritual disclosure: the free personality of man is revealed only in Christ. Love is not a divine nature and the lover of mankind is not a man but God, who has given his son for the salvation of the world.<br /><br />Since Ivan is with the Inquisitor against Christ, he must follow the road of apostasy and struggle with God to the end. The dichotomy of his consciousness between faith and disbelief is shown in his dialogue with the devil, which did everything in his power to compel the atheist to accept his reality. The devil might have been the product of Ivan's disbelief. The question of the devil's enigmatic visit will remain unresolved in Ivan's heart. Reality might have escaped the man who has lost the highest reality - God; fact merges with delirium, nothing exists but everything only seems.<br /><br />The overall framework of the novel prepares for the pro and contra that enters into Alyosha's very soul, becomes his inner struggle, temptation, and victory over the temptation. While Ivan's revolt ends in his struggle with God and negation of God's world, Alyosha's revolt is completed and pruned by his mystical vision of theresurrection, through a feat of personal love. After all, The Brothers Karamazov, in light of its violent nature, calls for love and the miracle it brings about in life.	2004-11-28
US	51341166	R2SV1CMNOFC8OY	0140441131	351689121	Dead Souls (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	4	8	N	N	"I don't want real peasants. I want to have dead ones."	Dead Souls raises the fundamental puzzling problem of literary theory: the question of an author's personal involvement in his work, meaning, of how far, Gogol's outlook on life can impinge on the lives of his protagonists (or heroes) without leading, as in Gogol's own case, to insanity and suicide. Dead Souls is a fragmented work that upon finishing the second volume of which Gogol fell under the influence of a priest who advised him to burn it. He regarded Gogol's literary work as an abomination to the eyes of God and admonished Gogol to lead a sequestered life at the monastery to atone for his sin. There Gogol suicidally took to his bed, refused all provisions and died nine days later. <br /> <br />The remaining manuscripts of Dead Souls are rather fragmented as the four chapters of the second volume are recalled and put together through the word of mouth. The first volume affords the whole scaffold and theme of Gogol's ambitious work. As Gogol's work on the novel proceeded, its theme took on more and more grandiose proportions in his mind. At first he wrote without forming any concrete plan in his head but the beginning of the first volume already contains hints of how Gogol hopes to fulfill his mission of saving Russia, which was looking up to him with eyes full of expectation. But quite soon the fact that the whole of Russia would appear in his novel (in fact the skein of characters the hero encounters does represent the whole of Russia, in their skepticism, greed, fear, paranoia) was no longer enough to satiate him. Gogol was getting all the more convinced of his messiah-like mission to save Russia and he began to regard Dead Souls as the means God had given him to intercede for his fellow comrades. <br /> <br />Brooding over the fate of mankind in general and of his countrymen in particular, Gogol was puzzled by man's perverse habit of straying from the road which lay wide open before and which, if he followed it, would lead him to some magnificent \\"palace fit for an emperor to live in\\", and of preferring instead to follow and chase after all sorts of will-o'-the-wisps to the abyss and then asking in horror what the right road was. But Gogol's own pursuit (to the truth and meaning of existence), was unfortunately, a will-o'-the-wisps which brought him to the abyss into which he finally precipitated himself. It was through the numerous characters, with whom Gogol intended to represent all of Russia, that all the stupidities and absurdities of all the \\"clever fellows\\" were caricatured and reflected and therefore became more apparent to us. The work is therefore highly satirical of the senselessness of the noisy contemporary world, and the deceitfulness of the illusions that led mankind astray. <br /> <br />Notwithstanding all that remains of the second volume of Dead Souls is a number of various fragments of four chapters and one fragment of what appears to be the final chapter, the plot deduced from the context is nothing but discernible. But no final judgment of the complete second volume (and maybe another volume that was utterly lost) of Dead Souls can be based on what has been crudely recovered. Simple and uneventful the plot might have been, the essence of the book simmers on the ground that injustice cannot be rooted out by punishment and that the only way of restoring the reign of justice in Russia was to appeal to the inbred sense of honor that resided in every Russia's heart. <br /> <br />The plot is simple. Collegiate Councilor Pavel Ivanovich Chichiknov arrived in the town N. to buy up all the peasants who died before a new census was taken for the landowners were obligated to pay taxes for these dead serfs. With a subtle resourcefulness and perspicacity, he purchased these dead serfs for resettlement in land that was distributed for free. Was he to acquire them at a considerably lower price than what the Trustee Council would give him, a great fortune would be in store for him. Under the pretext of looking for a place to settle and under all sorts of other pretexts and chicanery, he undertook to scrutinize all parts of Russia where he could buy most conveniently and cheaply the sort of peasants he wanted. He did not approach any landowner indiscriminately, but selected those with whom he could negotiate such deals with the least difficulty, trying first to make their acquaintance and gain their confidence. Conducting himself with the utmost decorum and discretion, he was extremely meticulous in find out all the leading landowners and the number of dead souls each of them owned. But the thought that the serfs were not real serfs was never absent from his mind: a pricking thought that rendered him anxious to settle the tricky business soon as possible.  <br /> <br />But the purchase of dead souls soon became inevitably a topic of the town's general conversation, in which views and opinions were expressed regarding whether serfs should be purchased for resettlement. No one was not astounded by the news of Chichikov's purchase. Some demanded an explanation but paradoxically the affair seemed to be deprived of any proper explanation. Readers might have raised the same question: What was the meaning of these dead souls? There is no logic in dead souls. How can one buy dead souls? Others quailed at the possible outbreak of mutiny so vast a number of rowdy peasants Chichikov contrived to transport. The vague identity of Chichikov also added to the public's paranoia.  <br /> <br />Whether Chichikov's tricky business succeed or not, Dead Souls positions itself as Gogol's judgment of mankind, being a similitude to or even an inspiration to Dostoyevsky's Notes from Underground. Dead Souls offers a quasi-biblical solution as Gogol brings about his protagonist's spiritual regeneration: think not of dead souls, but of one's own living soul and follow a path with God's help. <br /> <br />2004 (47) MY <br />	2004-08-23
US	51341166	R1C5847ZM1N3Q4	0141439785	573665066	The Mayor of Casterbridge (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	11	15	N	N	"He sold his wife and baby daughter for 5 guineas."	The Mayor of Casterbridge, focused and simple the premise has been in itself, affords a quite convoluted plot that packs with events as the memorably niched characters play out their lives and unravels the novel. The book is riddled with a well-faceted theme of conscience: the purging of conscience and its reconciliation through an allusion to deceit and characters' shameless past that ceaselessly haunt them and render them despondent and guilty. The tragic actions revolve around one man who manages to establish prestige, wealth, and authority over Casterbridge and ironically the very elite status leads to the fall of the deeply flawed man.<br /><br />In a fit of drunken anger and delirium, young Michael Henchard sells his wife Susan and baby daughter Elizabeth-Jane to a sailor for 5 guineas at a county fair. Over the course of the years, though he manages to establish himself as a respected and prosperous pillar of the town from literally nothing, Henchard still affords a ray of hope in reuniting with his family, until he meets Lucetta Templeman who nurses him in America. Such black spot of his youth as wife-sale caused by his fits of spleen not only renders him ashamed of himself but also wears an aspect of recent crime: something that will shame him until his dying day. Behind his success is always lurking such shameful secret of his troubled past shielded from the public and a personality prone to self-destructive pride and temper.<br /><br />Contributing to the suspenseful nature of the novel is the return of the mayor's wife and daughter some 18 years later whom Michael Henchard believed to have perished at the sea. The sentimental reunion, which marks Henchard respectable 20-year abstinence from alcohol, brings about a heartrending revelation and an ironical sequence of events that irritate Henchard. The very truth cruelly leaves in him an emotional void that he unconsciously craves to fill. At the same time, the regard he has acquired for Elizabeth-Jane has eclipsed by this revelation. The new-sprung hope of his loneliness (or \\"friendless solitude\\" in Hardy's own words) that she will be to him a daughter of whom he can feel as proud as of the actual daughter she believes herself to be, has been stimulated by the (yet another) unexpected arrival of the sailor to a greedy exclusiveness in relation to her.<br /><br />All these ineluctable consequences of his past shameful transaction at the fair take a stupendous toll on Henchard and his conscience. He is also uneasy at the thought of Elizabeth-Jane's passion for Donald Farfrae, whose rising prestige and success in his independent business provoke in Henchard enmity and envy.  Henchard quails at the thought that Farfrae shall utterly usurp her mild filial sympathy with him, that she might be withdrawn from him by degrees through Farfrae's influence and learns to despise him. The pricking of conscience subtly manifests in Henchard's solicitous love and growing jealousy. His fear of losing tie after the death of his wife is sympathetically understandable. Though he in his effrontery has been weaning Elizabeth-Jane from the sailor by saying he is her father, she understands that Henchard has himself been deceived in her identity.<br /><br />Lucetta Templeman, inescapably torn between her past disgraceful entanglement with Henchard and her love for a more refined gentleman, is also pricked by her conscience. In an impulsive moment, purely out of gratitude, Henchard proposes to the Jersey woman who has been so far compromised to him. But as the years gone by, Lucetta is more convinced that she has been forced into an equivocal position with Henchard by an accident. She has discovered some quantities in Henchard, who is either well-educated nor refined in manner, that irretrievably renders him less desirable as a husband than she has at first thought him to be, notwithstanding there remains a conscientious wish to being about her union with him.<br /><br />When Lucetta learns of the wife-sale, she immediately dismisses any possibility of being with him and realizes she cannot risk himself in his hands. It will have been letting herself down to take Henchard's name after such an ignominious scandal. But her past which she diligently seals, if not expunge altogether haunts her. The surreptitious history with Henchard becomes the torture of her meek conscience and the reconciling of which through a marriage with a second man remains also her secret alone.<br /><br />Subtitled \\"A Story of a Man of Character\\", Henchard's origins remain unexplained but he literally begins and ends the novel away from Casterbridge, where he achieves his prominent status ironically destines his downfall, through the lampooning and skimmity-ride. A psychological study, the novel accentuates the fury that causes him to lash out against both himself and those who stand closest to him. It depicts to the fullest the very self-destructive nature of the power that causes Henchard's fall, which is so obvious through his louring invidiousness.<br /><br />2004 (46) MYta learns of the wife-sale, she immediately dismisses any possibility of being with him and realizes she cannot risk himself in his hands. It will have been letting herself down to take Henchard's name after such an ignominious scandal. But her past which she diligently seals, if not expunge altogether haunts her. The surreptitious history with Henchard becomes the torture of her meek conscience and the reconciling of which through a marriage with a second man remains also her secret alone.  <br /> <br />Subtitled \\"A Story of a Man of Character\\", Henchard's origins remain unexplained but he literally begins and ends the novel away from Casterbridge, where he achieves his prominent status ironically destines his downfall, through the lampooning and skimmity-ride. A psychological study, the novel accentuates the fury that causes him to lash out against both himself and those who stand closest to him. It depicts to the fullest the very self-destructive nature of the power that causes Henchard's fall, which is so obvious through his louring invidiousness.  <br /> <br />2004 (46) MY <br />	2004-08-10
US	51341166	R3BC4XTWXU5OKH	0141439602	365726027	A Tale of Two Cities (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	26	32	N	N	Every evil will be brought to its earthly justice...	A Tale of Two Cities offers a swift, exciting story and an unforgettable rendering of the French Revolution, in a lethal, vengeful and exiguous Paris and a tranquil London. This novel as Dickens's most memorable effort to see a world in a very confined space indeed: a work very short by its nature and yet in which hundreds, even thousands of people do appear in a state of belligerence. The book is riddled with the howling mobs, epic scenes and tightly packed incidents that concentrate on a few central characters. It is an intimate piece of work, which somehow deftly evokes the epic presence of crowds and the vast movements of history, as well as the engrossing terror and compassion of individual characters.<br /><br />Within the condensations of historical time, the lives of the characters play themselves out. Besides the dreadful Madame Defarge of whose power derives from her surreptitious but all engrossing lust for vengeance on the Evremonde family (aristocrats), Dickens is particularly concerned with three men, all obsessed with the same dreamy, beautiful and svelte figure of desire: Lucie Manette. Doctor Manette, who had been for 18 years jailed by the Evremonde in the Bastille to cover up its atrocious crimes, reveals much more fully his character through actions than by mere dialogue and introspection. Realizing his tormented imprisonment that has thrown him into a delirious repression as strength, he announces himself to the Revolutionists and pleads for Charles Darnay's life and liberty.<br /><br />An heir of the Evremonde family but lives under the name Darnay in England, his ambiguous historical guilt is converged through a crucial historical ellipsis. The other central figure is Sydney Carton; a lawyer with thwarted ambition that takes on a mythical aspect at the end to save his friends and so to fulfill his promise. If Charles Darnay is the society's innocent victim who suffers because of the sins of his forefathers and of Madame Defarge's inveterate hatred of the aristocrats, Sydney Carton, who suffers from an inexplicable melancholy, is the sacrificial hero who redeems those sins in an re-enactment of Christ's expiatory death.<br /><br />The novel is also redolent of the theme of resurrection: the release of people from the realm of death and from their own morbid isolation. The novel begins with the rescue of Doctor Manette from the proximity of the Bastille. Apprehension, repression and revulsion weigh in his mind and make it difficult for him to utter a word upon the topic that oppresses him. There has always been a strong and extraordinary revival of the excruciating train of thought and remembrance that are the first cause of his malady. Charles Darnay, who is accused by being a traitor and forfeit to the French people, has to be rescued from the realm of death, or more precisely, the wrath of Madame Defarge by, ironically, Doctor Manette. Imbued from her childhood with a brooding sense of wrong, she is utterly implacable and inimical. She is intransigent to recognize in her determination to exterminate the entire Evremondes insanity. The inveteracy of her pursuit is unfathomable for she is completely deprived of pity and compassion. Her surreptitious, conspired management of Charles Darnay's arrest is cunning but not without immense cruelty. The scheme manifests in a woven form, or knitting, which represents calculation, patience, pertinence, and an urge to retaliate.<br /><br />The doctor realizes that up to that time, his imprisonment and repression have been associated in the minds of others with his personal affliction, deprivation and weakness. But he feels now, that his suffering is strength and power with which he can deliver Charles Darnay. The urge to returning to France has passed through his mind often as he cannot help thinking and having had some sympathy for the miserable people. Letter from an old servant who is in peril rouses the latent uneasiness in his mind to a vigorous resolution. Onecan immediately discern Darnay's futile attempt to save the servant and win influence with the revolutionists in order to do good, for no sooner has he arrived in Paris than he languishes in jail. The lack of reason and pity on Madame Defarge'' behalf is exposed to the fullest extent as one realizes how she has cunningly managed and manipulated the actions behind the scenes by letting Doctor Manette expend his force in a mock victory, accusing Darnay and re-arresting him, arraigning him to a new trial, and using the doctor's own manuscript on which written his confession and curse of his persecutors hidden in the Bastille against Darnay. All this Madame Defarge has premeditated in order to lure Darnay back to Paris and put whom on trial as a former aristocrat and a member of the very culpable Evremonde family who also happens to wrong the doctor.<br /><br />The root of all the terror and bloodthirst, or even the Revolution, under Dickens's hand in this novel, is Madame Defarge's hatred for the Evremonde who had caused the death of her family. She is therefore the revolutionary impulse incarnate who is held together by class-hatred. Stony, absorbed in her knitting, seemingly unobservant, she is in absolute control of the mob. With her indomitable will she seem less a person than a force of destiny. She might have imbued the mob with her incendiary speeches but the real diabolism of the revolutionary mob rests in its overweening arrogance, its god-like assumption of power over the lives of the French people. Portrayal of the Revolution is achieved through an acceleration of events such as the arrest on mere suspicion, the mock trials and sheer murderousness.<br /><br />Lastly the concept of martyrdom contained within the novel is to a good deal paradoxical: a Christianly, self-sacrificial death with a resurrection context and a prophetic countenance that brings together and contrasts ideas of justice and mercy. It echoes with the opening paradox \\"it was the best of times, it was the worst of times....\\"<br /><br />2004 (45) MYtion. One can immediately discern Darnay's futile attempt to save the servant and win influence with the revolutionists in order to do good, for no sooner has he arrived in Paris than he languishes in jail. The lack of reason and pity on Madame Defarge'' behalf is exposed to the fullest extent as one realizes how she has cunningly managed and manipulated the actions behind the scenes by letting Doctor Manette expend his force in a mock victory, accusing Darnay and re-arresting him, arraigning him to a new trial, and using the doctor's own manuscript on which written his confession and curse of his persecutors hidden in the Bastille against Darnay. All this Madame Defarge has premeditated in order to lure Darnay back to Paris and put whom on trial as a former aristocrat and a member of the very culpable Evremonde family who also happens to wrong the doctor.  <br /> <br />The root of all the terror and bloodthirst, or even the Revolution, under Dickens's hand in this novel, is Madame Defarge's hatred for the Evremonde who had caused the death of her family. She is therefore the revolutionary impulse incarnate who is held together by class-hatred. Stony, absorbed in her knitting, seemingly unobservant, she is in absolute control of the mob. With her indomitable will she seem less a person than a force of destiny. She might have imbued the mob with her incendiary speeches but the real diabolism of the revolutionary mob rests in its overweening arrogance, its god-like assumption of power over the lives of the French people. Portrayal of the Revolution is achieved through an acceleration of events such as the arrest on mere suspicion, the mock trials and sheer murderousness.  <br /> <br />Lastly the concept of martyrdom contained within the novel is to a good deal paradoxical: a Christianly, self-sacrificial death with a resurrection context and a prophetic countenance that brings together and contrasts ideas of justice and mercy. It echoes with the opening paradox \\"it was the best of times, it was the worst of times....\\" <br /> <br />2004 (45) MY <br />	2004-08-02
US	51341166	R1J08L83J5SQAS	014118373X	431493903	Modern Classics Master And Margarita (Penguin Modern Classics)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	&quot;I implore you, at least believe devil exists.&quot;	Whether one believes or not: Satan disguises as a foreign magician, and along with his thrice-cursed assistants, penetrated a theater in Moscow with black magic and hypnotic tricks. The artiste, who has personally met Pontius Pilate, is believed to have hypnotized director of the theater and has then contrived to fling him out of Moscow. The whole of the city is occupied with impossible rumors and portion of truth that is embellished with the most luxuriant lies. One thing is for sure: the theater has had to be closed owing to the mysterious disappearance of its administration and all sorts of outrages which have taken place during the notorious sance of Professor Woland's black magic. <br /> <br />The Master and Margarita is about Woland a.k.a. the Devil who weaves himself out of the shadow of the \\"other world\\" and into Moscow. This fantastical, humorous and yet devastating satire of Soviet life consists of two interwoven parts - one set in contemporary Moscow and the other in ancient Jerusalem at the time of Pilate. The Pilate story mainly focuses on his decision in sentencing Jesus Christ to death and the purging of his soul owing to fear and cowardice. The Moscow story impressively brims with imaginary and frightful characters, most importantly of which is an anonymous master who writes a novel about Pilate (in fact Satan has read the story and re-tells it) but is accused by literary critics of possessing illegal literature. Closely interwined with the master is Margarita, a woman who deserts her wealthy husband for the master and whose book has so inexorably absorbed her. She is willing to pawn her soul to the Devil in order to rescue the master from delirium. After all the sorceries and wonders by which she flies on a broom and destroys the apartment of the man who has rejected the master's novel and so ruined his life, she knows precisely it is Satan she is visiting. But the meeting does not frighten her in the least for the hope that she will manage to regain happiness and peace makes her fearless.  <br /> <br />While thousands of spectators, the whole staff of the theater and members of government commissions have seen this magician and almost everyone who encounters the eerie retinue is in an delirious state, it is no doubt that all these events begin with the gruesome death of Berlioz at the Patriarch's Ponds. The chairman of a Moscow literature organization has slipped off some sunflower oil spilled on a turnstile and tumbled under a tram-car, head severed, and the exact manner of whose death fortold by Woland at his encounter with Berlioz and Ivan Nikoaevich Homeless. Poor Ivan has tried to convince that Devil does not exist and under Berlioz's tutelage writes an anti-religious poem that negates Jesus' existence. Ironically it is this very non-existing one who dwells in the beheaded writer's apartment and to whom Margarita desposits her faith., and from whom seeks salvation and peace after she and the master have been robbed of everything in the normal reality of the world. <br /> <br />In The Master and Margarita, through its unusual range, picking up of tone, and sometimes a parodying voice, Bulgakov produces a novel that is a theatrical rendering of the terrors of 1930s. He meticulously weighs the question of cowardice, guilt, and conscience in considering the fate of his hero and through audacious portrayal of Christ, Satan and Pilate. The Pilate story, which is also the story written by the master, passes through a succession of narrators and converges to the Mosocw scene at the end, when the fates of Pilate, the master, and Margarita are simultaneously determined. Their fates reflect Bulgakov's own conviction that cowardice being the worst of human vices - for it is impossible not to believe that the indomitable Margarita has tried, at the expense of forfeiting her soul and salvation, to think up the best future for the master. As for Pilate, he persistently felt the scruple of his conscience since Jesus, whose life if not for his damnable cowardice he could have spared knowing the guilt of other prisoners is more considerably burdened. All that is left to the procurator are wicked pains, incomprehensible anguish, and the piercing feeling that he has lost something irretrievable and all his belated attempts to make up for Jesus' loss are nothing but some petty, worthless and despicable deeds. <br /> <br />The novel is meant to educate, and to guide one of a state of enlightment in which the demarcation of humanity into good and evil is no longer useful and the transcendence of the need for retribution is the goal. The characters eventually are brought to see beyond apparent identity to the real identity, and to understand that Woland and Jesus being the same message. On top of the philosophical depth in redemption and death, the novel bespeaks details from Bulgakov's own life and a more personal tone in the satire of Woland and the retinue versus the literary powers. The normality of Soviet life is imposed from the very beginning, at the expense of the poet Ivan Homeless, who remains throughout the book and appears at each pivotal turn of the novel, especially when parable merges with normal reality. <br /> <br />2004 (43) MY <br />	2004-07-31
US	51341166	RJXCGWHI76MOL	0140441840	7474548	Resurrection (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	51	54	N	N	&quot;My business is to do what my conscience demands of me.&quot;	Resurrection (1899) is the last of Tolstoy's great novels and unlike the previous War and Peace and Anna Karenina the architectural lines are fairly unique. Whereas in the previous novels attention is continually shifted from one hero to another, in Resurrection Tolstoy follows Dimitri Nekhlydov step by step, drilling to the core of his thoughts, commenting on his actions, analyzing his motives, evincing his engendered acts, and verbalizing the purging of his soul that inexorably manifests into a non-Christian regeneration process. Tolstoy hardly lets Nekhlydov out of sight for an instant: his conscience continually demands of him to atone for his sin. Interwoven with the flow of the story is Nekhlydov's painful realization of the demoralization that develops into such perfect madness of selfishness. <br />If it had not been for the Doukhobors, who was accused of fighting against the spirit of God by the Orthodox Church, Tolstoy might never have finished the novel, the idea for which had been suggested to him ten years previously in order to raise fund for the sect. A nobleman, namely, Dimitri Nekhlydov, serves on a jury and recognizes the prostitute on trial for theft and poisoning a merchant as a girl he had seduced and loved when he was a young man. Katusha (Maslova), who is a yellow-card prostitute sanctioned by the government, has a checkered fate. She is wrongfully convicted as the jury inadvertently left out the phrase \\"no intent to take life\\" in the verdict. She is found not guilty in the theft but guilty of administering a powder and is sentenced to hard labor in the outlandish Siberia.<br />As Nekhlydov embarks on the campaign to appeal for Katusha and do her justice, in the depth of his soul he becomes so conscious of all the cruelty, cowardice, and baseness - not only of this particular action of his but of his whole idle, dissolute, selfish and complacent life. The dreadful veil that has all this time, for ten years, conceals from him his sin, and the whole of his life, dictated by the religious sophisms, begins to wobble. He has to confront with his entire being that the faith of his is farther than anything else from being the right thing.<br />One can gauge the progress of Nekhlydov's awakening by Katusha's attitude toward him. Ten years of prostitution has not completely extinguished the spiritual spark in her. This can be proven by the merchant's trust in her, the truth behind the poisoning of which she was accused, her behavior with a breath of equanimity at the trial toward the real culprits, the attitude of her fellow prisoners, and the outburst in which she would not allow Nekhlydov to gain his salvation at her expense. <br />When Nekhlydov witnesses the cruelty of the government officials who put duties and responsibilities of office above humanity and the sufferings of the innocent people who have not in the least transgressed against justice or committed lawless acts but merely because they are an obstacle hindering the officials and the rich from enjoying the wealth they amass from the people, he repents of his selfishness and a spiritual resurrection dawns on him. Simplicity of the explanation seems very overwhelming: the officials can insensibly ill-treat others without feeling any personal responsibility for the evil they do because they are completely devoid of not only compassion but the chief human attribute, that is, love and pity for one another. <br />As Nekhlydov becomes the mouthpiece for the innocent in Siberian prison, in whom Tolstoy expresses his own deepest aspirations and views on aspects of human existence. Nekhlydov's ambitious and heroic search to discover the purpose of life not only has become readers' striving, rekindled Katusha's love for him, but also unites with Tolstoy's ideals. Through the convoluted relationship between Nekhlydov and Katusha, Tolstoy treats the themes of love, passion and death with such compelling sincerity that one's heart is infected by pity and compulsive need to crusade against cruelty, injustice and repression. <br />Resurrection is psychologically superb in the treatment of one man's thoughts and feelings, which stem from a study of his physical being. Tolstoy deftly builds up this \\"dramatis personae\\" line upon line, and through which he turns a highly critical eye on the law, the penal system and above all, the Church. He ridicules the usual sophisms that so inveterately dictate his hero's life, that the enlightened ones plunge the people into greater darkness with their hypocrisy and heresy. Line by line Tolstoy sets up Nekhlydov's awakening in which he must overcome the laborious path of expiation stimulated by a voluntarily moral desire to repent. This very teaching brings Tolstoy at loggerhead to the Church, whose practices of deceit and delusion Tolstoy vehemently rejects with utter intransigence.<br />Resurrection gives us a vision that is beyond the historical reality of the given time period. A literary masterpiece it is, Tolstoy propagates his faith and moral ideals through his hero. Resurrection is an ultimate achievement of literary power that accentuates life of people in Russia.<br />2004 (43) MY	2004-07-15
US	51341166	RFPY89JJT7FO6	0140440577	392377088	The Travels of Marco Polo	Books	4	37	48	N	N	&quot;Never man explored so much as Messer Marco.&quot;	In 1260, Niccolo Polo, the father of Marco Polo, and his brother Maffeo went across Black Sea in the hope of a profitable brisk of trade. So the brothers from Venice brought many dazzling jewels and set out from Constantinople by ship to Sudak and onward to Barku. A war broke out in Barka's Land forced the brothers to travel the opposite direction from which they had come. After they had crossed the desert, they came to Bukhara (in Persia) and by fortuity met a Tartar (Mongol) envoy on the way back to the Great Khan in Khan-balik (Beijing). On learning that they were merchants from Venice whom had never been seen in the country, the envoy invited the brothers to accompany him to Khan-balik to see the Great Khan.<br />The Great Khan received the brothers honorably and welcomed them with such lavish hospitality after a year's journey. The curious Khan asked the brothers about their Emperors, about the government of their dominions, about the maintenance of justice, about the Pope and practices of the Roman Church, and about the Latin customs. He decided to send emissaries to the Pope, and asked the brothers to accompany on the mission with one of his barons. He entrusted them a letter written in the Turkish language for the Pope and asked him to send a hundred prominent men learned in the Christian religion to condemn idolaters' performances and shun devil. These well versed were to demonstrate for the idolaters their capability of doing diabolic arts but would not, because only evil spirits performed such enchantments.<br />As the brothers approached Egypt, they got wind of the Pope's death and so they would go to Venice and visit their families pending the election of a new Pope. During the homeward voyage, Niccolo learned that his wife had passed away and left behind a 15-years-old son Marco Polo, who authored this book. After staying in Venice for about 2 years, they left for Jerusalem to get the oil from the lamp at Christ's sepulcher which the Great Khan had requested for his deceased mother, who was a Christian. The Travels chronicles the three years' journey back to Khan-balik from Venice, via the ancient trade corridor now known as the Silk Road, and details all the peculiar sights and peoples along the present Iran, Iraq, India, Tibet, Pamir, Mongolia, and China. It also records the many regions Marco Polo traveled during his numerous emissaries for the Great Khan during his 17 years in China.<br />The Great Khan found favor with the then 21-years-old Marco Polo, who had acquired a remarkable knowledge of the letters and customs of the Tartars. Observing his wisdom and perspicacity, Khan sent him as his emissary to Kara-jang (Yunnan) in the far southwest, a mission Marco polo fulfilled brilliantly. When he went on his mission, being well aware of mistakes of previous emissaries, he paid close attention to all the novelties and curiosities that came his way, so that he may report them to the Great Khan. On his return Marco Polo would present himself before the Khan and first gave a full account of the business on which he had been sent. Then he went on to recount these remarkable things he sighted on the way. In The Travels, one will find detailed account of interesting, if not bizarre, customs and practices at which Marco Polo marveled, the very same stories that entertained the Khan who became well disposed to the young lad.<br />For 17 years, Kubilai (the sixth khan in the Yuan dynasty) was so well satisfied with Marco Polo's conduct of affairs that he held him in high esteem and showed him such favor as keeping him so near his person. He observed more of the peculiarities of China than any of his contemporaries, because he traveled more extensively in these outlandish regions, and not to mention he gave his mind more intently to observing and recording them. The Travels reflects the stupendous extent of his travel, as Marco Polo often bypasses many places that were of no particular interest to him. <br />Emissariessent Marco Polo all over Manzi (southern China) and Cathay (northern China), rendering a vivid delineation of the native people, customs, cultures with amazing verisimilitude. For example, he marveled at the funeral customs in which the deads were provided with horses, slaves, camels, clothes in great abundance - all cut out of paper (a tradition that still prevails among Chinese) and burned alongside. For the Chinese believed the deads would have all the money in gold and all the necessities in the next world, alive in fresh and bone, and that all the honor they did while he was burning would be done to the deads correspondingly in the next world by their gods and idols. <br />Marco Polo also wrote a detailed account of India and its practices of diabolic arts and similar funeral customs. From other historical resources, he probably acquired his knowledge partly when he was there on the Khan's business, partly on his return trip with the bride for Arghun, and that he derived some of it from first-hand observation, some from reliable testimony, and some from mariners' charts. He also wrote about the life of Sakyamuni Buekhan, who was revered founder of the Buddhist religion, for he refused to be the successor of his king father but continued to lead a life of great virtue, chastity, and austerity. <br />In 1293, the Great Khan reposed such confidence in the brothers that he entrusted to their care not only the princess of Kokachin but also the daughter of the king of the Manzi, so that they might escort them to Arghun, Khan of all the Levant. The Polo brothers' adventure in the East thus completed on the note of a successful escort to Kaikhatu. The Travels, also known as The travels of Marco Polo, chronicled all wonders of Marco Polo's encounters in the East for 33 years. <br />2004 (42) MY	2004-07-15
US	51341166	R2OPWJQ0Z2ZBUD	0140447946	627065254	The Iliad	Books	5	10	15	N	N	&quot;Yet death and inexorable destiny are waiting for me.&quot;	The movie Troy has revitalized my thirst for The Iliad and the reading of which has long been overdue. I decide to re-read this first work of Western literature in a different literary form: the prose translation by E. V. Rieu, who had first published in 1950 and has since achieved its classic status. Never before had this greatest of ancient Greek poet seemed so vivid, so accessible, approachable, and immediate to the English-speaking readers. This edition in review is a Penguin Classics 1988 revision of Rieu's translation that has timely incorporated the changes in linguistic and cultural idioms. E. V. Rieu's prose translation is as vivid and readable as Professor Richmond Lattimore's verse translation, which I had read in my undergraduate English class.<br />The Iliad is set in the last year of the Greek siege of Ilium, a town in the region of Troy, which is now the northwestern Turkey and it all begins with a quarrel over a woman. On a visit to Sparta, Prince of Troy seduced and ran away with Helen, the wife of the Spartan ruler Menelaus. King Agamemnon, the imperial overlord of Greece, with his brother Menelaus, induced the princes who owe him allegiance to join forces with him against King Priam of Troy. The Greeks for 9 years had encamped beside their ships on the shore near Troy but without bringing the matter to a conclusion, though they had repeatedly looted and captured a number of Trojan towns, under the leadership of Achilles, Prince of Myrmidons, who had cultivated a gripe against Agamemnon.<br />Success of raiding Troy led to a feud between Agamemnon and Achilles. Agamemnon had been allotted a girl named Chryseis as his prize, and he refused to give her up to her father, a local priest of Apollo, when he came to the camp with a ransom for her release. The priest prayed to Apollo and a plague ensued, forcing Agamemnon to give Chryseis up. But the unruly Agamemnon couped himself by confiscating one of Achilles' own prize, a girl named Briseis. It was such violet, public, unjust, and deeply humiliating attack on Achilles' assessment of his significance to the Greek army, along with Agamemnon's seize of Briseis that drove Achilles to withdraw himself and the Myrmidon force from the battlefield.<br />Homer has written the epic with a delay of action, deferring Achilles to later part of the book in order to create a perception that he has covered the entire Trojan War. The Iliad, in this regard, in fact covers a few days of the last year of Trojan War, filling the pages with tight packing of action, the tugging to and fro between the two sides. It only centers on the aristocratic heroes (i.e. Hector, Paris, Aeneas, Achilles, Menelaus, Agamemnon, Diomedes, Ajax, and Odysseus), of whom they are named, but not the general mass of troops.<br />As the Trojans got the upper hand and stormed the Greeks' defenses, Hector, the Trojan Commander-in-chief succeeded in setting fire to one of the Achaean ships. At this point Agamemnon had realized he had wronged Achilles, who had remained obdurate to all entreaties and repeated to the embassy the original accusation that he did all the fighting and Agamemnon got all the rewards. Achilles' bitter and grumpy speech against Agamemnon sheds light to what possibly Homer tries to convey as he has remained restrained in his narrative, leaving much room for private interpretation that one might experience difficulty to supply a definitive answer to question about the one main theme.<br />Achilles had altered his view in life: no compensation could ever pay him back, because all the compensation in the world could not equate the worth of one's life, moreover the Trojans never did him any wrong until death had befallen Patroclus. All he had suffered by constantly risking his life in battle had left him no better off than anyone else. The Iliad tragedizes a hero who had been viscerally wronged: a man who was the son of a great man and a goddess, and yet for whom death and inexorable destiny were waiting. Patroclus' disastrous death brought Achilles to life and gave him a cause to fight. To him life was worth revenge on the person who killed his beloved companion. Achilles' greatness lies in his refusal to disclaim the responsibility for his actions, even though his own death would be the inevitable consequence.<br />The greatness of The Iliad lies in the fact that Homer presents a broad mental picture of what he thought the Trojan battlefield looked like. The poetry may be linked with a tradition of oral poetry, which manifested fully in the repetition of patterns and descriptions that prevailed the epic that existed in the Mycenaean age. The modern reader can enjoy the book, as it was by the contemporary, for its own sake, as a vivid description of the Trojan War. Homer took what the tradition offered him and shaped it into The Iliad we now read, in perfect accordance with his own cultural assumptions.<br />2004 (40) MYwere waiting. Patroclus' disastrous death brought Achilles to life and gave him a cause to fight. To him life was worth revenge on the person who killed his beloved companion. Achilles' greatness lies in his refusal to disclaim the responsibility for his actions, even though his own death would be the inevitable consequence. <br />The greatness of The Iliad lies in the fact that Homer presents a broad mental picture of what he thought the Trojan battlefield looked like. The poetry may be linked with a tradition of oral poetry, which manifested fully in the repetition of patterns and descriptions that prevailed the epic that existed in the Mycenaean age. The modern reader can enjoy the book, as it was by the contemporary, for its own sake, as a vivid description of the Trojan War. Homer took what the tradition offered him and shaped it into The Iliad we now read, in perfect accordance with his own cultural assumptions. <br />2004 (40) MY	2004-06-26
US	51341166	R18RT55DULY5JH	015602943X	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	4	3	6	N	N	&quot;My whole life is one long deja vu.&quot;	The Time Traveler's Wife is an unusually non-traditional but creative novel about Clare Ashire, an artist who married Henry DeTamble, a special collection librarian who involuntarily slips in and out of time. While the ability to time-travel would be welcomed and celebrated as a special privilege that will access the past, see the future, correct the wrong, and even lead to a fortune, the novel delves on entitles at a more subtle and emotional level: love, waiting, absence, aging, parting, and death.<br />The novel slowly unveils the everlasting tangled lives through a montage of narratives of Clare and Henry, the latter warped in time and the former follows a natural sequential course. Niffenegger manages the intricate time scheme adroitly by labeling the time of the narrative with the age of characters. Sometimes Henry's self from future will meet him and two ages will be provided for him.<br />For Henry, moments before his dislocation in time and space resemble a fit of epilepsy. Dislocation tends to occur when he is stressed. Physical cues such as flashing light, exhaustion, hallucinations, and standing up suddenly all prompt the dislocation. Neither logic nor rule governs this coming and going and thus places Henry in a precarious situation. He has no control the triggering of dislocation; he never knows when it will happen and on top of that, he has no control of where and when he will end up.<br />Henry met Clare for the first time when he time-traveled: she was 6 and he was 38. Like many of his sojourns, Henry flustered to acquire clothing and food and a place to hide when he met his future wife. She continued to see him throughout her childhood and adolescence before they officially met and became lovers when she was 20. The fact that Clare had known Henry most of her wife lends their relationship eccentric (maybe enchanted) but not sinister.<br />The relationship seems to have sustained the whim of time (and the chrono-impaired syndrome) but it is not easy. For example, Henry believes he is not exactly the man Clare has known from her earliest childhood, but instead a close approximation she guides surreptitiously and premeditatedly toward a Henry that exists in her mind's eye. In other words, Clare's perception of Henry becomes conducive to his existence and identity.<br />In theory Henry's time traveling should make him omniscient but Clare seems to have known things about him that he does not know. This very knowledge accentuates her longing for Henry. Waiting is a recurring theme that flourishes and creates suspense. The author has deftly imparted this suspense by delving on Clare's waiting, thus making Henry's coming-and-going inexhaustible. Clare has been waiting all her life and is uncertain of the length of waiting. She almost has lived a life of suspended animation.<br />Interwoven with Henry's time traveling and his meetings with Clare are powerfully moving narratives with which the author relates the same incident from different angles. The varying perspectives supplies missing information and gives characters more depth and nuances, lending them unforgettable and convincing.<br />2004 (39) MY. For example, Henry believes he is not exactly the man Clare has known from her earliest childhood, but instead a close approximation she guides surreptitiously and premeditatedly toward a Henry that exists in her mind's eye. In other words, Clare's perception of Henry becomes conducive to his existence and identity.<br />In theory Henry's time traveling should make him omniscient but Clare seems to have known things about him that he does not know. This very knowledge accentuates her longing for Henry. Waiting is a recurring theme that flourishes and creates suspense. The author has deftly imparted this suspense by delving on Clare's waiting, thus making Henry's coming-and-going inexhaustible. Clare has been waiting all her life and is uncertain of the length of waiting. She almost has lived a life of suspended animation.<br />Interwoven with Henry's time traveling and his meetings with Clare are powerfully moving narratives with which the author relates the same incident from different angles. The varying perspectives supplies missing information and gives characters more depth and nuances, lending them unforgettable and convincing.<br />2004 (39) MY	2004-06-14
US	51341166	R129CNOYXIFD0Y	0670032689	313659840	Marrying Mozart: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	"Marries the part of him that creates extraordinary music"	21-years-old Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and his mother arrived in Mannheim in 1777 and mostly ate at the expense of others, mostly musicians. The aspiring young composer seemed to lack the luck to find some commissions and to gain support for his prodigious talents. As soon as he climbed the stairs to the Weber?s apartment on the 5th floor of a building, the four Weber sisters enthralled him as much as his musical talents beguiled the regular circle of composers, musicians and vocalists who gathered every Thursday evening. The sisters became ineluctably entwined in Mozart?s life thereafter.<br />Fridolin Weber scraped by as a music copyist but he was such a well-rounded musician for what occasions had he not played his numerous instruments at which he was adequately proficient. On the side he also gave clavier lessons. It was his penchant for music that rendered him the culprit of his wife?s [persistent complaint and reprimanding. The scheming and calculating Caecilia Weber kept a book of suitors for her four daughters, hoping whose propitious and wealthy marriages to the elites would bring in fortune for her late years. <br />Mozart, with his uncertain, inauspicious and ho-hum career as some second-rate church composer under the patronage of the unyielding Archbishop, surely did not find favor in Caecilia?s eyes. Mozart?s bigot parents, on the strengths of his ascending career, also disapproved of their son?s cultivating friendship with the Webers, for the two elder Weber daughters sang publicly and would bring disrepute in the Mozart house.<br />Marrying Mozart is a tale of an entangled love of an elite historical figure from the late 18th century Europe. Fate had destined Mozart to meet the four sisters: he was inspired by Josefa?s high, rich, and dark-toned voice while she secretly admired him; Aloysia?s dazzling beauty and vocal talent captivated him (but she also recklessly broke his heart); Constanze came to play a crucial but surprising role in his life later;and Sophie the witty, discerning, convent nun-to-be, became not only his friend but his confidante.<br />Marry Mozart is more than a love story. It paints the domestic life of a struggling musical family that placed its hope in the prospect of the daughters. The Weber sisters struggled to explore their passion in life, love, views on music, influence of music in their lives, the heritage of their father, and sexuality. Mozart, on one end obligated to provide for his family, contrived to write music ? symphonies and operas ? that he liked and would not settle for being an in-house composer with no say of the type of music to be composed. Cowell had deftly illustrated, through careful research of history, though dates and events might be rearranged for the novel, the composer?s impregnable effort in writing the opera of Englishwomen being abducted to Turkish harem.<br />Josefa had truly seen through Mozart: the woman who marries Mozart marries as well the part of him that creates extraordinary music. Therefore, the book bespeaks the kind of sacrifice that the spouse of an artist like Mozart had to prepare to make. Marrying Mozart, in summary, is beautifully written, attending to the minute details of the garbs, cultures, traditions, and emotions. Each of the four Weber sisters is brought alive in their emotionally intricate nuances.  It is more a novel of the four sisters at the time of young Mozart?s ascending career.<br />2004 (38) ? MY	2004-06-09
US	51341166	R20OHFYPO5YTDB	067972477X	111847135	I, Claudius From the Autobiography of Tiberius Claudius Born 10 B.C. Murdered and Deified A.D. 54 (Vintage International)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	From historian to emperor	I, Claudius: From the Autobiography of Tiberius Claudius is an account of the life of Tiberius Claudius and, as the title has stated in a self-explanatory manner, is written in the form of Claudius's autobiography. Claudius narrates events relevant to the Roman Empire and his family from about 4 BC all the way to his crowning in 41 AD. While the book stands as one of the modern classics of historical fiction, references to characters, events, places, and architectural structure are factual.<br />Tiberius Claudius Drusus Nero Germanicus (10 BC-54 AD) was a member of the royal Julian House: son of Drusus and Antonia, grandson of Augustus (Octavian) and Lavia, down the line of Julius Caesar. Fate had destined Claudius to be a loner in the Julian House, alienated and was deprived of all opportunities for advancement. His family, even his mother Atonia, who only took care of his practical needs but did not love him, despised him as a weakling and dismissed him as an idiot. Not only was the family ashamed of his stammering, it consistently feared of Claudius's committing a solecism upon which the public would comment. Claudius's closest companions included his tutor Athenodorus who encouraged him to become a historian and his own brother Germanius, who never stopped defending his brother .<br />Though eventually Claudius became the family priest, Claudius still felt most keenly the family's disappointment in him and the slights he met everywhere. Under the tutelage of Pollio and encouragement of Athenodorus, Claudius gathered materials for a life of his father and grandfather, the poisoning of whom had greatly perplexed and haunted Claudius. <br />Pollio's advice to Claudius had been proved sound and perspicacious throughout the tempestuous years as Claudius survived the intrigues, manipulation, bitter contention for power, lampoons, caprices and poisonings that marked the reigns of Augustus, Tiberius (uncle of Claudius whom Livia contrived to enthrone at the expense of ridding her great-grandsons), and the mad, capricious Caligula. Always a great disappointment to his mother, ironically, it was Claudius's half-wit, feebleness, temerity, and outward incompetence that saved him from the conspiracy, murder, the wickedness, the sufferings, and the wrath that had so ineluctably befallen his brother Germanicus, his nephews Nero, Drusus, and Gemellas. <br />I, Claudius tells the amazing tale of one man's exaltation from a historian to the emperor, a tale that magnifies Claudius's loyalty to his friends, his loyalty to his cruel family, his loyalty to Rome, and his loyalty to the truth (and defending of the truth) and how the virtue had rewarded him with the greatest honor and done him justice for the slights he had met all his life. The account celebrates Claudius's untroubled spirit and power of discernment in all his duties, both human and sacred. The characters are delineated to the full etch and nuance which lend verisimilitude of the historical period. The book is one of the most fun, interesting, behuiling book I have read that I almost reads like history.<br />2004 (37)  MY	2004-06-02
US	51341166	RLZ0KWPE730SV	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Map of an autistic mind	Fifteen-year-old Christopher Boone can name all the prime numbers up to 2000, can tell there are 60 circles on his teacher's shoes, can figure out it takes exactly 21 minutes to take the bus to school. Christopher has an inquisitive mind, keenness to numbers, unusual intuition of space, but he doesn't like anything yellow or brown. Christopher has Asperger's Syndrome, a condition similar to autism. The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-time, unlike any book of fiction that I have read, deftly, but in very simplistic language that belongs to the voice of an autistic child, maps out Christopher's mind and emotions.<br />When Christopher discovers that his neighbor's dog Wellington has been murdered with a garden fork, he skillfully applies his logical mind to probe the murder. Starting with neighbors on the same street, Christopher makes his inquiries but to no avail. His teacher Sihoban encourages him to keep all the clues that he has produced and discovered in a book which will eventually manifests into a book. When his father interferes at his investigation and locks up his journal, Christopher sets off a chain of events that unveil a shocking truth about his family. <br />The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-time is after all a book about trust, integrity and reconciliation. It verbalizes the mind of an autistic child and internalizes his thinking, bringing his fear and insecurity to full actuality. The book shows great insight to the meticulously, pristinely set of routines that is built on logic and mathematical equations that governs the protagonist's life. The writing is compulsively simple and unadorned.<br />2004 (36)  MY	2004-06-02
US	51341166	R3H2R368VB55I7	0967489881	470744186	The Cafs of San Francisco: A Guide to the Sights, Sounds, and Tastes of America's Original Caf Society (Cafes of San Francisco: A Guide to the Sights, Sounds, & Tastes of)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	San Francisco coffee scenes	What a great, interesting book! I came across this guide at the counter of a local cafe that is actually featured in the book. The book organizes coffee houses and cafes according to neighborhoods of San Francisco. In each of the neighborhoods are featured cafes, their stories, menus, and even some of the recipes. I know some great cafes must have been missed and omitted since coffee houses in San Francisco come and go and there are a plethora of them (not counting Starbucks, of course) that accentuate neighborhood identity. It would be a strenuous project to keep up-to-date of all the newcomers in the industry (so I'll expect, maybe, a yearly edition?). A great headstart and a perfect coffee-table book for barista connoisseur and just the daily dosers!	2004-05-26
US	51341166	R1DA5UGHTZN67U	0142003697	139671172	Michelangelo and the Pope's Ceiling	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Fascinating tale of fresco work at the Sistine Chapel	None of Michelangelo's other works ever won him quite the same renown as his fresco in the Sistine Chapel, a building now virtually synonymous with his name. Almost immediately after Michelangelo unveiled it in 1512, the fresco became like an academy for artists, who had since long been using the Sistine Chapel as storehouse of ideas. They treated works of Michelangelo as some kind of a portfolio through which they concocted new ideas. The prestigious style of buon fresco generated intense interest, in particular, among a new generation of painters that pioneered a movement later known as mannerism.<br />MICHELANGELO AND THE POPE'S CEILING recounts the beguiling, fascinating story of the four extraordinary years Michelangelo Buonarroti spent laboring over the 12,000 square feet of the vast ceiling made up of concave vaults, spandrels, and lunettes. The works marked an entirely new direction in which he had brought the power, vitality, and sheer magnitude of works of sculpture into the realm of painting. <br />The commission, however, did not commence on an auspicious note, as Michelangelo had meager experience as a painter, let alone working in the delicate medium of fresco and painting bent-back the concave and curved surfaces of vaults. Having been a masterful sculptor who had unveiled the statue \\"David\\" four years prior to the pope's summon, his rival Bramante took advantage of his lack of experience to thwart Michelangelo's ambitions and so to destroy his reputation. Such alleged conspiracy as perceived by Michelangelo made the dreadful commission all the more invidious. He would either refuse the Sistine project, and in doing so incurred the ire of Pope Julius II, or else failed miserably in his attempt through lack of experience.<br />The outcome of Michelangelo's works had proudly (and vindictively) served as a triumphant reply to the sneer of his insidious rival, who had once stated that he would be unable to paint overhead surfaces because he understood nothing of foreshortening. What Michelangelo had achieved was exactly the sheer opposite: he demonstrated how vastly more daring and successful his foreshortening technique had become following four years on a special scaffold he designed for the purpose. It was through the power, arm-raced politics, vicious personal rivalries, and a constant paranoia over the possible hiatus of the commission that Michelangelo achieved a virtuoso performance at the summit of his powers.<br />Battling against illness, financial difficulties, consistent changes of assistantships, domestic problems, family drama, predatory rival of the commission, and the pope's impatience and petulance, Michelangelo created his masterful scenes - The Creation, The Temptation, The Flood, The Crucifixion of Haman, The Brazen Serpent, David and Goliath - so beautiful that the telling movements lent the figures their verisimilitude and intense drama.<br />The book is not a critique of Michelangelo's art works, but to a small extent it does make comparison to works of Raphel, a brilliant young painter who was working in fresco on the neighboring Stanza del Segnatura, the papal apartments. Michelangelo's ability to generate, in a short space of time, so many of hundreds of postures for the Sistine's ceiling stunned the young artist. Raphael's works after 1512, the unveiling of Michelangelo's fresco at Sistine, manifested absorption of Michelangelo's style: the tumult of bodies, throngs of figures in dramatic, muscle-straining poses showing gradations of tone along anatomically accurate knots of muscles.<br />Ross King has written a brilliant book that combines uncommon insight on Michelangelo's works with historical facts. Woven through the artist's progress on the Sistine commission was history of upheaval during 16th century Italy, when Pope Julius II devoted on military campaigns against other Italian city states and against Louis XII of France. Niccolo Machiavelli defended Florence, Michelangelo's hometown, against Julius's attacking forces bent on restoring the Medicis to power. MICHELANGELO AND THE POPE'S CEILING painted a portrait of life in Michelangelo's Rome, on the ingenious scaffold in Sistine Chapel, as well as the daily minute history of Italy. It is a book through which history and art converge.<br />2004 (32)  MY	2004-05-25
US	51341166	R350KJGX6N2EGB	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Slow beginning, then breakneck with action and convolution	Angels and Demons is a page-turning thriller that achieves a fine balance of action and intrigue in a breakneck pace. The first half of the book, which devotes to principles of physics, though somewhat slow, sets up for the later frantic hunt through sealed crypts, deserted churches, and forbidden Vatican archives. The remaining of the book is packed with pulse-accelerating action and yarns suspense. It coaxes readers through loops.<br />Leonardo Vetra is a prominent particle physicist at the CERN institute. His life dream is to rectify science and religion; to mitigate the century-old rift between the two, for he believes the two different approaches converge to the same truth about creationism. He devises an unprecedented experiment, which led to discovery of a destructive weapon (the antimatter), to show that religion and science do complement each other in the most unanticipated way. More importantly, his work has finally tugged God's involvement in the scientific theory.<br />At the dawn of his fulfillment of life dream Leonardo Vetra is murdered. Professor Robert Langdon is summoned to CERN to analyze a cryptic symbol seared to the chest of the physicist. Langdon stared at the deadly vendetta ambrigram in disbelief for the homicide implies that the brotherhood of Illuminati, a centuries-old, deceased underground organization, has resurfaced and infiltrated the Vatican.<br />What follows is Langdon's embarkation on intriguing loops to chase after the killer and unsolve the mystery of the Path of Illumination.<br />Historical Background and Myth. The Illuminati dated back to the 1500s when the Catholic Church had always persecuted scientists and ineluctably led to a jaundiced rift between science and religion. A group of scientists banded together to combat the church's tyranny and proclaimed science did not undermine the existence of God. For two millennia, the Catholic Church had exclusively claimed the quest for truth, manipulated the truth to suit its needs,and murdered those whose discoveries did not serve its politics. The Illuminati had waited for more than 400 years for the day when Vatican will be annihilated. The brotherhood had infiltrated the most elite organization and incurred fear that among people whose faith it removed. The brotherhood had vowed to stay silent as long as it took, amassing enough influence and power that the organization can resurface without fear but indomitable retaliation, confirming the conspiratorial myths as fact.<br />While the hints to the Path of Illumination (series of carefully marked symbolic markers placed in public locations around the city of Rome) have dawned on Langdon, the Vatican hosts at the St. Peter Basilica the IL Conclave, the election of the new Pope. The entire power structure of the Roman Catholic Church was jeopardized as all 165 cardinals from all over the world are sitting on a time bomb. <br />Angels and Demons is a quick brainy thriller, a blockbuster perfection if not a literary masterpiece. The fast-moving action and the twist-and-turn plot make the book \\"unputdownable\\". Whether it is believable I will leave to readers but all the locales, references to arts and churches and the Illuminati brotherhood are factual.  A historical thriller.<br />2004 (31)  MY	2004-05-20
US	51341166	R34GMUPD50H97	155970666X	6724582	Balthasar's Odyssey: A Novel	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Quest for the mysterious 100th name	(***1/2) Balthasar's Odyssey explores the speculation of the world coming to an end. The author has written quite an ambitious novel that sets at the eve of the year of the Beast; the year as predicted in the Book of Revelations in which the Antichrist will appear and the Apocalypse will resurface. God has 99 names in the Koran and it has been said that God has the most clandestine 100th name that contributes to the scope of the novel.<br />Balthasar Embriaco was a merchant and antique dealer living in the Levant. The Geonese embarks on the quest for a mysterious book entitled \\"The Hundredth Name\\" by fortuity. Crazed for the rumor and religious myth, Balthasar was convinced, with unshakable conviction, that the mere knowledge of this hundredth appellation will help him find salvation for not only himself but also mankind.<br />From Levant Balthasar set out on a tumultuous odyssey that spanned the Asia Minor, the Mediterranean and finally to Europe, a distance that was comparable to Paul's missionary routes. He left his mark in Constantinople and then bound for Smyrna, sailed across the Mediterranean to Genoa then Lisbon, and finally London. During his indefatigable quest for the book, Balthasar encountered fear, falsehood, charlatan, deceit, and disillusion, to the point he wished to give up. <br />Whether Balthasar found the book or not must be left to the readers, but Balthasar's journey had opened his eyes to the civilized world, to stricken communities, and cities in ruins. Though parts of the novel are somewhat trite and disjointed, Balthasar's Odyssey tells a tale of the Mediterranean through a unique religious perspective.<br />2004 (29)  MY	2004-05-20
US	51341166	R2FHO5Q9NPLHLD	0060919647	685832490	In Evil Hour	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Lays the groundwork for later works	(***1/2) In Evil Hour is one of Gabriel Garcia Marquez's earliest works, through virtues of wit and compassion, the rich and dreamy portrait of a mythical town, in one way or another the book preludes to the most successful One Hundred Years of Solitude. In this short novel, incendiary lampoons infested a Columbian riverside town and traduced its most respected citizens. It began as Cesar Montero marched into the house of Pastor and gunned down its master after reading a crumpled note revealing secret of an affair. What followed was an ineluctable transformation of the town that deceit, murder, inveigle, and violence replaced the inveterate tranquility.<br />The tooth pain-afflicted mayor, the doctor, and Father Angel joined in a cooperative effort to identify and locate the lampoon posters while the town strenuously clung onto the last spindle of sanity. Curfew was enforced and any suspected personnel was jailed for alleged lampoon spreading. A list of all residents who had not had lampoons put up on whom was compiled. Authorities turned to card reading to divine the origin of the traduces. The entire tale is inexorably redolent of a quiet, throbbing paranoia as the result of the lampoons, which haunted and rendered everyone insomniac. <br />The book, though not as flourishing as its successor (One Hundred Years of Solitude), riddles with life trivialities, constant desires for confession and absolution, and ominous signs in the minute episodes that shape daily life. Though somewhat slow-moving and trite at parts, In Evil Hour has the virtues of wit and reveals the foundation upon which the author based in his later novels - vision of some mythical small town being haunted by bits and pieces and waves of political upheaval. Characters are mere instruments and vehicles with which Marquez wrote against government oppression.<br />2004 (26)  MY	2004-05-12
US	51341166	R1PC7WY45TAMPB	0060740450	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A century classics, with beautiful writing	One Hundred Years of Solitude tells the story of the rise and fall, birth and death, and vicissitudes of the town of Macondo through the history of the Buendia family. Detached and matter-of-fact, the narrative serenely unveils the happenings around the Buendia house and its prolific generations, filled with unforgettable characters. For some readers the novel might flow somewhat uneventfully and convey a breath of aridness - don't give up because after about a hundred pages or so Garcia Marquez has delineated a clairvoyant tapestry of human emotions, all types of solitude, love, and bitterness that accentuate struggles of townspeople and members of the Buendia family to the fullest actuality.<br />Reading the book, it seems, at times, as if I'm travelling through still photographs. Life of the Macondians, as well as the Buendias, one after another generation, as it always was, fixed in its frame, just there at just that time. In a big picture, Macondo had been a prosperous place and well on its way until it was disordered, corrupted, and suppressed by the banana company, whose engineers brought on the deluge as a pretext to avoid promises made to the local workers. At the core of the novel are those who were caught up in the upheaval that unfortunately turned into a massacre killing 3000 people. <br />The novel is beautifully written, with the author's attending to the minutest details and nuances. A recurring theme is that solitude had made (in many of the characters, men and women) a selection of their memory and had burned the dimming piles of nostalgic waste that life had accumulated in their heart, and thus had purified, magnified, and eternalized the others. People relapsed into intransigent solitude though they all live within a huge family under the same roof. As family members advanced in their years, they made detailed recapitulation (or brought to realization) of life in the house and completely changed the opinion they had held of their descendants andsiblings. <br />One Hundred Years of Solitude is a complicated analysis of human emotions and struggles through the decadence of a mythical town and its pillar family. The book evokes such clairvoyance as it scrupulously examines the most insignificant happenings and truths in a family that members of which did not see. The novel exposes to the full human flaws: incapability of love, gall of bitterness, invincible cowardice, irrational fear, and sinful pride (which led to the fall of one of the major characters, Colonel Aureliano Buendia).<br />Final words of advice: have a notebook and genealogy chart of the Buendia family ready and do not hesitate to backtrek when names of the characters become confusing. Savor and ruminate the dreamy narrative that plunges deeper and sidles closer to core of human emotions.<br />Also recommended:<BR>Love in the Time of Cholera, Gabriel Garcia Marquez<br />2004 (25)  MY	2004-05-11
US	51341166	R2VLZ5OXS8G05X	0312275420	697393202	Being Dead: A Novel	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Death treated as a literary event	I have never read anything like Being Dead: haunting, grotesque, sadly beautiful and unforgettable. The novel is not a murder mystery as it attempts to disguise many readers. It is rather an inventive, daring poetic meditation of a middle-aged couple's re-discovery of love. Nostalgia had ineluctably brought them back to Baritone Bay where they had first plunged into intimacy some thirty years ago. But Joseph and Celice had paid too heavy a price for their nostalgia: their lives.<br />The beginning is the end in Being Dead. The couple, hand in hand, and whose nakedness had subjected them to indignity, terminated their lives in each other's flesh in a manner marked by a placid love that only time can cultivate. The narration, like the love of Joseph and Celice, is utterly unsentimental and business-like, something that is preserved by habit and memory, not necessarily with flaming passion. The dreamy writing accentuates the serene mood of the novel while it de-emphasizes the dramatic deaths and the reckless physical aftermath. The tranquility of the crime scene, the intrepidness with which the lissom grass perked back up after removal of the corpses, the gradual disappearance of rectangle of time-paled grass, the absorption of blood into the soil and the equanimity of their daughter Syl downplay the horrible death but at the same time usurp the promptings of readers' hearts. <br />Being Dead transcends other contemporary works on the subject of death with its meditative, poetic monologue that dwells on life, love, and death. It is a literary treatise on an event, and the event is the death of a renowned zoologist and his wife in the midst of sand dunes at a remote beach. Being Dead is a literary event made possible by the author's naked daring.<br />2004 (26)  MY	2004-05-11
US	51341166	R3N8WRV8KHML8S	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	0	0	N	N	&quot;Death ends a life, not a relationship.&quot;	Death ends a life, not a relationship. Love conquers all. Morrie Schwartz and Mitch Albom know better. After Mitch Albom had parted with his favorite professor Morrie Schwartz after some 20 years, Albom, a struggling former musician, had become the No. 1 sports columnist. When Nightline broadcasted a show on the dying professor, who suffered from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), an incurable neurological illness that melts the nerves in the brain, Albom rediscovered his enamored mentor from college in the final leg of the old man's life. Albom poignantly regretted that he had not kept in contact as he promised at graduation and got on a plane and visited the gentle old man sooner, before the disease ravaged his nerves and robbed him for his life basics.<br />But if the old man taught his student-friend anything at all, it was the fact that nothing was too late in life. As Albom rekindled the friendship with his professor whose life was as if being marked off by crossing the days on the calendar, their encounter turned into a final class that met every Tuesday on the meaning of life. Tuesdays with Morrie is the transcription of this encounter, Morrie's concluding remarks on the meaning of life, taught from life experience, with a sense of complete detachment of the world and inveterate cultural values. This final lecture challenges Albom and all of us in the values of death, love, money, marriage, emotion, family, regret and culture.<br />The more Mitch conversed with Morrie, the more he realized how much his insights of life had faded and gone astray. As the old man sidled closer to death, the things Morrie said in his last months transcended all religious differences with a profundity that calls everyone to re-evaluate, to cudgel the meaning of life. Morrie reiterated and advocated for love, which allows one to die without really \\"going away\\", for the love one created in lifetime was still embraced in memories. Maybe death really had a way to make one learn how to live. The one amazing thing about Morrie is that he decided he would not be ashamed of dying for he saw death as yet a beginning.<br />2004 (23)  MYto live. The one amazing thing about Morrie is that he decided he would not be ashamed of dying for he saw death as yet a beginning.<br />2004 (23)  MY	2004-04-28
US	51341166	RO4END65KMA7P	037542220X	998595304	Chronicle of a Blood Merchant: A Novel	Books	4	12	13	N	N	&quot;What did I do in previous life to deserve it?&quot;	(****1/2) It was 1950s, the time China under the throes of Cultural Revolution and the Great Leap Forward, decades of traumatic history that provides the architectural background to the intimate details of Yu Hua's characters' lives. The novel explores an aspect of poverty that very few Chinese readers would miss the way in which the story engages the social and economics havoc of contemporary Chinese life under the red flag. <br />Everyone, especially men, who were strong enough went to sell a bowl of blood for 35 yuans (roughly US$5). In the countryside men who had not sold blood could not even get themselves a wife, for blood selling was more than a gesture of showcasing one's masculinity and health. Xu Sanguan was the blood merchant. His meager salary as a cart-pusher at a silk mill was not enough to sustain his family, which included his wife Xu Yulan and three sons. The impregnable Xu Sanguan had got himself on the good side of a local Blood Chief and gave blood in a frequent interval that was otherwise forbidden by hospital. In over 40 years, the impregnable Xu Sanguan had overcome every family calamity by selling his blood that he might as well had sold his life along with it. Each and every time he sold blood was for his sons.<br />For example, he sold blood to pay hospital bills of the blacksmith's son whose skull was cut open by his eldest son Yile, whom he had cuckolded for 9 years. As Mao directed all youths to be exiled to the countryside for reeducation by the farmers, Xu Sanguan again sold blood for money that would ease the austerity of lives of his sons. At the height of the three-year famine that claimed lives of 5 million Chinese, Xu Sanguan sold blood in exchange for food more nutritious than plain corn gruel, as the Xu family would lay in bed all day to conserve energy. In a series of heartrending drama and reversals, Xu Sanguan reconciled with his cuckolded son and decided to risk his life to save Yile, who had contracted hepatitis.<br />Chronicle of a Blood Merchant follows faithfully Xu's life during the early 1950s when socialism burgeoned in China, then the disastrously ambitious economic collectivization of the Great Leap Forward in 1958 and its aftermath of a 3-year famine (as recalled by my grandfather and father, whose herb house converted into a steel smelting ground by order of local bureau), to the factional violence of Cultural Revolution in 1966 to 1976. Yet the novel is not necessarily, or exclusively, historical in focus. It does not present itself as a rebutting critique of the political upheaval but rather a tapestry of human life and sufferings in the grave particulars of a very ordinary man's days. <br />Yu Hua's realistic style bears much resemblance and affinity to that of Lu Xun (Diary of a Madman), another contemporary Chinese literary master whose work had induced the May 4th Movement in 1919. Like Lu Xun, and the more recent Su Tong, Mo Yan, Ha Jin, and Gao Xinjian, Yu Hua returns obsessively to the violent, excruciating spectacles of China's tumultuous modern history without reservation and in a very detached voice.<br />Also recommended:<BR>One Man's Bible, Gao Xinjian<BR>The Crazed, Ha Jin<BR>To Live, Yu Hua<BR>Red Sorghum: A Novel of China, Mo Yan<br />2004 (24)  MY	2004-04-28
US	51341166	R35M414PLLRE0Q	076531052X	970276746	The Priestly Sins	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Church crisis	The controversial novel tells the story of Father Herman Hugh Hoffman, a gifted and aspiring young man (who always strives to be a good priest though not always succeeds because everyone sins) from the imaginary prairies of the Great Plains. In the first summer of his first parish appointment, Hoffman witnessed child abuse by a fellow priest Lenny Lyon in the parish rectory. He reported to the pastor, the bishop, the father of the victim, and the local police but was only rebuffed by the archbishop. What followed was such preposterous drama that sent Father Hoffman to an exile at a mental institution. The church vilified Father Hoffman for his denouncing a gifted priest favored partially by the archbishop and cleared by police. Soon the church went as far as portraying Hoffman as an allegedly gay priest who reported his homosexual fantasy as a fact. Under the fire from his fellow priests for selling out the church to appear and testify in court, the Archdiocese deplored all sexual abuse and claimed to have solid evidence that the plaintiff paid Father Hoffman to testify against the church.<br />The novel exposes the viciousness with which church authorities shun taking responsibility for serious felony. The so-called victim's advocate acted as the archbishop's official bishop who beated down resistance of the victim's family and exhorted them to settle the case. The church peremptorily denounced Hoffman's testimony but quailed to admit the truth that Lenny Lyon was dying of AIDS and, what's more, at whose funeral the church denied it was AIDS and blamed the affliction on the stress Hoffman started. The case evinces that the diocese had systematically and deliberately, through the church hierarchy, covered up sexual abuse and punished those who tried to report such crime. <br />The Priestly Sins leaves us a judgment of the crisis: that those who might seem to be the worst sinners are not the predators like Lenny Lyon (who actually repented and was anointed before hislast breath), but other priests and church authorities who know about what the predators have done and remain silent and even defend them out of wounded pride.   In another words, the novel has afforded a glimpse to the ongoing debate on celibacy practiced by priests. Whether celibate or not, abuse is caused by a syndrome that is deeply rooted in a personality disorder. The Priestly Sins, with its fictional setting and characters, conveys an air of verisimilitude to the church crisis.<br />2004 (21)  MY	2004-04-25
US	51341166	R11QDUN83TMPBB	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Something only heaven can unfold	Eddie had devoted his entire life fixing rides at Ruby Pier amusement park. Though he had witnessed the vicissitude of the park and was enamored by the children to whom he brought much joy, Eddie felt trapped in a meaningless life. He had outlived his wife Marguerite, who died of brain tumor at the age of 47, and most of his family and friends. Rooted deep in his heart was an unbearable bitterness with which he intransigently held his father accountable for his loss of career, loss of freedom, and the loss of hope.<br />On his 83rd birthday, Eddie died in a tragic accident, trying to save a little girl from a falling cart that was snapped loose from the cable. His last earthly vision consisted of two mysteriously hands resting on his body. Eddie awakened in the afterlife and learned that heaven was a place where five people who were in it explained his earthly life to him. Five people presented to him five patches of memories that were crucial in unleashing the truth of hidden connections in Eddie's life. As the story unfolded, Eddie met his lineup of five people, of whom were loved ones and distant strangers, who each taught him a lesson and words of truth that changed his life forever. <br />The Five People You Meet in Heaven is a beguiling novel that blooms with surprises as it explores a mystery only heaven can unfold. It explores the meaning of our lives on earth and how lives and their incidences overlap with those of others. It explores the boundary where fortuities become no longer fortuitous but converge with daily incidences. Heaven holds the secret that one affects the other and the other affects the next, in a circle, in a loop, in which all endings are also beginnings.<br />2004 (22)  MY	2004-04-25
US	51341166	R3STDUSLXNJA74	0375706852	127846038	My Name Is Red	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Artistic concoction of ideas, musings, and pieces of minds	My Name is Red is both a historical and literary fiction. Set in 16th century Turkey, the tale takes place in the Ottoman Empire and encompasses the mysterious murder of a miniaturist named Elegant Effendi though it is not a murder mystery. The Sultan has commissioned a cadre of the most acclaimed artists in the land to create a great book celebrating the glories of his realm. The miniaturist has been working on the illumination of this book in an European style. The figurative art of the illumination clashes with the inveterate religious belief in Turkey for art could be an affront to the Islam. <br />Attempting such a dangerous task, the ruling elites ascertain the complete confidentiality of the project. Panic erupts throughtout the Ottoman Empire as Elegant Effendi disappears. He is murdered and thrown down the well. It is an extremely dense and arduous reading experience as author Orhan Pamuk deftly uses eccentric and non-living narrators, namely a corpse, a tree, a dog and other animals to unveil the truth of the murder, who indeed involves a clandestine manuscript which Effendi worked on.<br />The book affords a cast of numerous characters and all of whom are etched and carefully portrayed. What makes the book not a mystery is the fact that murderer of the miniaturist narrates part of the story. Purged by his own conscience he fears of being caught. At the intersection of narratives from different characters and non-living objects one finds a very convoluted plot of the truth. Maybe such is the beauty of a tale of which the author does not spell out the answer to all of the questions in mind but leave the truth of my imagination.<br />My Name is Red is an artistic concoction of ideas, pieces of mind, apercu, and emotion. While the cast of characters and narrators unveil their perspectives of the murder, woven throughout the novel are relevant subplots that hint at and distantly contribute to the resolving of the murder. Dialogues, monologues and musings on the philosophy of God, death, purge, love, and punishment fill the prose that is comparable to Kant and Joyce. My Name is Red is an obscure reading experience, filled with more philosophical meditation than the actual events and happenings that precede the murder. It is meant to be savored and its pages not meant to be turned quickly.<br />2000 (20)  MY	2004-04-19
US	51341166	R3TCP4TPODEVNU	1556524412	199514156	The Egyptian: A Novel (Rediscovered Classics)	Books	5	73	77	N	N	Full-bodied recreation of the 14th century BC Egypt	The Egyptian set in the Amarna period of Ancient Egypt during the reigns of the pharaohs Amunhotep III, Akhenaten and Horemheb, covering the concluding years of the 18th dynasty of the New Kingdom (1386 - 1293 BC), an ear in Egyptian history that was marked by significant religious and political upheaval. The Egyptian is Sinuhe, a physician of unknown birth origin who was wrapped and cradled in a reed boat floating down the Nile. As he narrates his life story, which transcended years of warfare, plague, and fierce battle between gods. On the outside The Egyptian delineates the history of Egypt through its inveterate religious devotion to many gods. At the core of the novel finds one man's lifelong journey through many countries, like Babylon, Crete, and Mitannia, to knowledge. Sinehu possessed such lonely idealism that motivated him to devote his life searching for something so intangible yet greater than he beyond his understanding did. He was not ready to merely worshipping the gods - in fact, he insisted on questioning traditions and thus marked him as an outsider of his own culture. <br />The spine of the novel concerns the ferocious contention between Aton and the Ammon. Pharoach Akhenaten sought to disestablish the old gods with a relatively unknown deity called the Aton as the Ammon, the present godly sponsor, had accumulated so much wealth and power that the Ammon priests began to rival to that of the Pharoach. In order to achieve balance of power between Ammon and the throne, Akhenaten deposed the ancient gods and established Aton as a new state divinity. No sooner had Akhenaten adopted the new deity than Sinuhe ineluctably became entangled in conflict between tradition and innovation. Sinuhe must choose between the way of the heretic Pharoach and the old corrupt system that had blinded many and robbed the freedom of Egyptians. <br />Miki Waltari deftly uses a prose style evocative of ancient texts that is comparable to Naguib Mahfouz's work in modern Egyptian literature. Unlike Mahfouz, Waltari's book is the first major novel set in ancient Egypt during the 18th dynasty of the New Kingdom in 14th century BC The Egyptian, comibing history, research and imagination, is a timeless re-creation of such largely forgotten era over a prodigious interval of time. The book captures the nuances of war, intrigue, power struggle, wassail, romance, horror, and lavish scnenes of violence. From Sinuhe's intransigence to worshipping false gods springs forth a tale of death and love, man's corruption, cruelty, and lust for power and the warfare between two value systems and religions that amazingly reflect our world today. <br />2004 (19)  MY	2004-04-18
US	51341166	R1GK2EHXVIEFB0	0375758771	197783362	The Glass Palace: A Novel	Books	4	21	26	N	N	Life in the eyes of locals and colonists, riveting read	The Glass Palace will probably disqualify as fiction has it not for a majority of characters that bear no resemblance to reality besides King Thebaw, Queen Supayalat and their four daughters, who were actually forced to exile. The book, which assiduously parallels to the history of colonial India and British invasion of Burma, depicts the country in a century of traumatic sub continental history through the independence in 1947, the assassination of General Aunt San shortly before his assuming of office after election, and up to the presence. The indelible characters, most of whom entwined and descended down the same family line of Rajkumar, seemed to float between boundaries of both geography (Burma, India, Malaya) and class; and transcended across time and generations, powerfully illuminated the painful history of Burma.<br />Amitav Ghosh conveys all the excruciating details of the characters in a an unusual air of equanimity, with a detachment, serenity and moral strength in the face of such overwhelming turmoil. At the same time, the complex and riveting book evokes the impact of the turmoil events that had thumped families and individuals. Set in Burma during the onset of British invasion in 1885, fortuity had brought 11-year-old Rajkumar to Mandalay. The sampan on which he worked as an errand boy had been in repair and forced him to seek employment in the city. Rajkumar, a brawny figure for a boy of his age and with a quick-witted mind, worked at a food stall in exchange for meals and a roof. He met Saya John and later under whose tutelage Rajkumar entered the timber business and made a considerable fortune. When the British soldiers forced the royal family out to exile, Rajkumar encountered Dolly, the youngest of Queen Supayalat's maids who took care of the Second Princess, and befriended her as the city's scum came surging berserk, looting in the Glass Palace.<br />Dolly was one of the last remaining members of the original Mandalay contingent when  the royal family exiled to Ratnagiri, India. For 20 years Dolly had lived in India as she progressed into adulthood, overseeing the daily chores and negotiating with local workers in the royal household. But Rajkumar could neither forget her nor remove any vestige of her - he set out on a quest for a girl whom he had met in the midst of havoc some 20 years ago, when she was only 7. What follows is a twist-and-turn chronicle, salt-and-peppered with historical background of the relevant countries, of Rajkumar's life and his family. Through Ghosh's writing Bruma's destitution, ignorance, famine and despair was relived.<br />Reading \\"The Glass Palace\\" reminds me of \\"The Piano Tuner\\" by Daniel Mason, a book about an English piano tuner being summoned to repair a piano that belonged to a Surgeon-Major in the midst of Burmese jungle. Characters in \\"The Glass Palace\\" traveled the very same route to and from Burma as the piano tuner and described similar sceneries. The second half of Ghosh's book is replete with commentary-like prose on politics, history and warfare. An overlapping theme is the fact that the British had recruited Indian soldiers to conquer the Burmese. In a sense, the Indian soldiers, bearing no cause, were made to kill for the British Empire, fighting people (the Burmese) who really should be their friends. The Burmese vented out anger and resentment toward the Indians and, what was more, as subjects of the British Empire, the Indians were treated as enemy aliens by the Japanese. Amitav raises the ineluctable truth: that the Empire was no less guilty of racism, aggression and conquest than the Nazi's institutionalizing racism, violence and atrocities. <br />2004 (17)  MY	2004-04-08
US	51341166	R3VFMV60YI9DQB	0789484234	70952361	Fitness for Life	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Comprehensive fitness programs for everyone	Matt Roberts' Fitness for Life is a fitness reference manual of exercise and nutrition to change the body and sustain health. The book is ideal for beginner who not only wants to get fit but to stay fit and maintain a healthy life. The book features over 20 different fitness programs for men and women, including 3-week detox, sustained weight loss, lunchtime workout, six-week beach body, building mass, fitness during pregnancy, men's general fitness, and women's general fitness.<br />Each exercise is illustrated with numerous pictures and explanations. The fitness programs always begin with a full-page illustrations of all the exercises involved, or the exercise library so users can get a very clear idea of what to expect in a workout and how to gauge the progress. Each workout provides a small \\"trigger\\" picture and a page reference that will tell user where to find each exercise demonstrated step by step. Sometimes user will see the exercises used in an exercise library, and different detailed charts will tell user how to use the exercises in the workouts. All workouts come with time, fitness levels, possible interval training, and repetition maximums. <br />Besides fitness programs, the manual details the guidelines for healthy eating including the components of a healthy diet, food guide and meal suggestions. One of the aspects that is most overlooked in resistant training is stretching. Matt devotes a full section flexibility and explains the significance of stretching through flexibility test. The advice on resistant training, in addition to the basics and exercises targeting specific muscle groups, also includes techniques and selection of weights. The book emphasizes on trying new training technique in order to introduce into training routine and ensure one to challenge muscles in different ways - to strive to achieve muscle overload.<br />My favorite program and the one from which I benefit most is the men's general fitness, one that provides comprehensive overall workouts that will keep me trim and maintain good muscle tone. The program is not only easy to follow but also keeps challenges the body to get the most out of it - in a way it achieves sculpting the body. The program helps to keep weight stable while I follow it alongside a healthy balanced diet. For example, exercises included in this program are squat, push-up, leg curl, shoulder press, leg extension, lat pull-down, ball squat, pec fly, power lunge, lateral raise, upright row, back extension, full crunch, oblique bridge, bridge, walking/running, cycle, row, dips, and bicep curl.<br />Exercises in this book do not always require huge gym machines so it is perfect for beginners and those who do not have access to gym membership.<br />2004 (18)  MY	2004-04-08
US	51341166	R2VP3N3JXK5O8V	1400030382	321194841	The Piano Tuner	Books	4	27	32	N	N	A memorable tale of one mans journey to self-discovery	In October 1886, about a year after the British invaded and took over the lower region of Burma, a shy and modest piano tuner Edgar Drake received a strange request from the British War Office. The Crown had requested of his immediate service in repairing an Erard grand piano thousands of miles away, its soundboard swollen and miserably out of tune. He was to leave his wife and his quiet life in London to travel to the jungles of Burma; settled deep in a country that was almost too dangerous for a civilian deprived of any military training. The piano belonged to one Surgeon-Major Anthony Carroll who had requested the piano 30 some years earlier and threatened to resign from service had the acquisition not granted by the Crown. The irreplaceable doctor, whose eccentric peace-making strategies comprised of poetry, medicine and music, despite much disapproval and jeering from contemporaries, had mitigated tension in Burma and brought a tentative quiet to the south Shan states.<br />Though the request for piano repair in war states was strange and incredulous, the premise of the debut novel is tantalizing enough to elicit interest to move on as Edgar Drake embarked on his journey to the Far East. The first part of the novel detailed his journey through Europe, the Suez Canal, the Red Sea, India, then into Burma - but still that was not it as Drake had to venture into the jungle, almost in dugout, from Rangoon to the distant fort of Mae Lwin. The encounter with officers whom he had always mistrusted, Burmese, bandits, and soothsayers further intensify the suspense of what Drake might expect at his destination, and accentuate his thirst for the damaged piano.<br />Author Daniel Mason, who had spent a year studying malaria on the Thai-Myanmar border, where much was the book was written, delivers an absorbing story of a world in transition, through vicissitude, enlivened through characters who loved music and peace and suffer from warfare with equal intensity. The book delineates the complicated cross-currents of emerging espionage, the British contention with the Limbin Confederacy, the consolidation forces of French forces in Indo-China, and local insurgence that threatened British hold of remote regions. <br />Though not as rich and layered an epic as The Glass Palace, The Piano Tuner subtlety probes the meaning of identity of homeland. To Edgar Drake, it was his duty to the piano and not the Crown and he what mattered the most was that he could help in the cause of music. While at one point he felt disconcerted at the delay of repair and his hope began to vanished, he also felt like Odysseus who could no longer return home after witnessing all the wonders of a country which he struggled to eke out an inkling of understanding. The Piano Tuner is a memorable tale of one man's journey to self-discovery and passion.<br />2004 (16)  MY	2004-03-30
US	51341166	RDW0SAQ3QI2BC	0060955228	535077019	Under the Volcano (Perennial Classic.)	Books	3	8	21	N	N	Lethargic and convoluted path of a drunkard	The book chronicles, with occasional reminiscences of its characters, events of one day in which Geoffrey Firmin, an ex-British consul in Mexico, sidled up to this inevitable fatality. His wife Yvonne arrived in Quauhnahuac to rescue him (from alcohol abuse) and their failing marriage at the inspiration of a vision of restarting a life together away from Mexico as well as the circumstances that had so inevitably driven their relationship to the brink of collapse. The presence of Hugh, Geoffrey's half-brother who had a crush on Yvonne, and childhood friend Laurelle further complicated the effort to rescue the ex-consul. <br />Hopelessly morose and alienated, Geoffrey, who experienced a heightened sense of consciousness and the imminence of fatality, had forfeited his trust in Yvonne for she had been with Hugh under the cover of saving him. It is amazing how uneventfully all the events constitute to the entire novel. Under the Volcano is such a powerful, lyrical statement of a chronic drunkard filled with rigid but somewhat fragmented prose. It captures the human conditions and one man's persistent struggle against the elemental forces that threaten to destroy him. The prose pervades a man's battle for the survival of human consciousness. At the same time imbedded in the narrative affords hints of his imminent fatality. <br />Under the Volcano is riddled with an air of lethargy and slowness. A ubiquitous theme is the consul's persistent temptation of getting his next drink. He frequently relapsed into a stream-of-conscious, hallucinatory conversation with a gabbled voice in his head, which pejoratively objurgated his lack of self-control. The volcano, despite its geographical location, might be thought as some abyss into which the consul descended for the harrowing. Other than the rigid prose and symbols that exemplify the main character, Under the Volcano is not a pleasurable read to say the least and it can be exhausting to one's patience. I say you will not be at aloss to pass this one.<br />2004 (15) MY	2004-03-27
US	51341166	RK811D8C1JXHD	0679735909	627682796	Possession	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Two romance stories entwine in a witty literary fiction	\\"All of us have things in our lives which we know in such brief, usual way, and neglect deliberately to explore.\\" <br />The quote is redolent of the novel's essence. Roland Michell, a young scholar, was reading a bristled volume belonged to the late poet Randolph Henry Ash from which all the papers sprang out. He found two drafts of the beginning of a letter to a woman whom Roland identified later as Christobel LaMotte. Together with Professor Maud Bailey, who turned out to be a descendant of LaMotte, Roland unveiled, through bundles of correspondence letters between Ash and LaMotte, Ellen Ash's journal, and Blanche Glover's (LaMotte's lesbian partner) letters and a suicide note, the shocking romantic relationship between Ash and LaMotte. <br />What followed upon discovery of letters in Seal Court (where in a room of which Christobel LaMotte once resided) was one of the most ferocious wrangle about a correspondence between dead Victorian poets that Roland had just discovered. An American professor had offered huge sums for the manuscripts but the British were trying to have all the letters declared of national importance and forbade the export. As a matter of fact, these letters, journal entries and poems are entwined apropos with the prose as Byatt unfolds the story. The literary insertion is meant to accentuate the lives of the poets and their relationship - and readers should take to serious perusal and pay attention to the clues from which the scholars resolve the clandestine affair.<br />As the title implies, the story revolves around the multiple meanings of possession. Roland must have felt possessed to take the letters from the book into his possession. He even felt irritation at the privacy Maud assumed in the affair that began with the discovery of his purloined letters. Little did Roland know that his indefatigable pursuit of the letters had distanced him from the poet as the letters edged closer to the essence of his unknown private life. His finding had, in a sense, turned out to be a loss for him as a reader.<br />The book is beautifully written, intertwined with vestiges of the Victorian poets' lives, their musings and poems. Progression of the relationship between Roland and Maud is relatively subdued and insipid when measured against the vividly limned love life of the poets. The young scholars' relationship is executed with such stoicism that one might not surmise the slightest of passion. Possession is truly a literary fiction, or thriller, that is riddled with twisting intrigues.<br />2004 (13)  MY	2004-03-18
US	51341166	R3WN58938CYAU	140003468X	702863006	Love in the Time of Cholera	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Tapestry of love, repression, sex, nostaligia	51 years, 9 months, 4 days - which was how long Florentino had waited.<br />Fifty-one years ago, Fermina Daza felt madly in love with Florentino Ariza. The affair was made possible only through her aunt's complicity. But under her father's tight regime and thus his intransigence of her love affair, Fermina eventually broke all ties with Florentino and married Dr. Juvenal Urbino, a wealthy, eminent doctor who merited in fighting cholera along the Caribbean coast by implementing stringent measures. What followed Fermina's denial of his love was an austerely beautiful story of unrequited love that had still not ended half a century later. They were two people, ambushed by death, who no longer had anything in common except the distant memory of an ephemeral past that was no longer theirs but belonged to two young people who had vanished with no vestige. <br />Heartrending but not forlorn, it was during this long period of time (almost all his life) that Florentino changed his entire being. He whiled the years away by engaging in 622 affairs and maintained some link with his lovers but reserved his heart for the irreplaceable Fermina. The idea of substituting one love for another carried him along surprising paths that permitted him to find solace in other hearts for his pain. <br />Florentino, whose only point of reference in his own life was the love affair with Fermina, made a fierce decision to win fame and fortune in order to deserve Fermina. In his demented passion, he did not even consider the obstacle of her being married to the doctor but regarded it an ineluctable event that he resolved to wait without impatience or petulance, even till the end of time. When meeting the doctor, he could not bear the pangs of grief at the thought that the admirable man would have to die in order for him to be happy. Florentino understood both he and the doctor were poignantly subjected to the ineluctable fate of loving the same woman.<br />As the bell tolling resonated citywidefor Doctor Juvenal Urbino, who died of a broken spine when he fell from the branch of a mango tree catching a parrot, death had interceded on his behalf after half a century of longing and imbued him the courage to repeat his vow of everlasting love to Fermina. So he planned to attend the funeral...<br />Love in the Time of Cholera is a tapestry of the complicated human emotions: love, repression, nostalgia, sex, concupiscence, and pride. It is a tale of morbidly repressed love, of passion, of obsession, and of indomitable longing and fulfillment. Garcia Marquez, with an incredulously detached voice and matter-of-fact manner, slowly unfolds the story with succulent details and lyrical exuberance. Piercing fluidity and precision of words accentuate the beauty of prose. Peripheral characters are no less etched and are vividly limned to the essence of their thoughts and emotions. The book is riddled with an air of melancholy and repression that is held redeemable by an undying hope. <br />2004 (14) MY	2004-03-18
US	51341166	R2I7D68GUSRUD2	0375411305	482522807	Shroud	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Banville epitomizes the literary fiction	Shroud, like other novels by John Banville, is beautifully written against a vividly limned background. The main character, Axel Vander, is conceited, obnoxious, and goes out of his way to offend the readers. He identifies himself as a masterly liar who lies about almost everything, even when there is no need and even when the plain truth will be so much more effective in maintaining the pretence. I will not be surprised at his unreliable narration, shameless boasting and impudent lies as he spatters out the tale of his life.<br />The shocking secret is that Axel Vander is not the real Axel Vander but has ineluctably appropriated the identity of an actor. He has impudently maintained the deception for over half a century since the time of danger during World War II. He must have thought he had shaken off his far past and wiped out all vestige of his old identity until the letter of Cass Cleave confronts him with irrefutable proof of his imposture. Banville devotes almost the whole novel chronicling Axel Vander's life, his delirious reflections, his reminiscence of his wife, the disturbing details of his impregnable alibi - all the minute heart-pricking details that permits Cass Cleave to privy the impostor's secret. Banville has written a beautifully crafted thriller, with meticulous prose, that prepares readers for the dreadful moment - the meeting of Axel Vander and his nemesis from whom he is so overwrought to buy silence for fear of being exposed. <br />The prose is incredulously lyrical, rich, and refined - so much more compressed and yet detailed any prose in most contemporary fiction. Banville is one of the few living author who can maintain the flow of a novel with a taut sense while flourishing different themes as well as exploring and exposing, delineating the intricacies of human emotions. The book leaves us in awe of the marvelous silence with which human tolerate lies. Once again Banville has epitomized literary fiction with a twisting intrigue, which is unfortunately exiguous in the market now.<br />2004 (12)  MY	2004-03-10
US	51341166	R1QAXMON1JP05E	0060936266	561264840	One Man's Bible	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A detached voice that articulates the dark period of China	One Man's Bible is a profound meditation on the excruciating effects of sordid political oppression on human spirit. The sobriety of writing bespeaks a dignity, which is an awareness of existence, and it is in this existence that the power of the frail individual lies. In a laudably detached voice, Gao Xinjian stipples a vivid picture of human frailty, repression and suffering under the totalitarian regime that exists only in memory, like a hidden spring of spring gushing forth a deluge of feelings that are difficult to articulate.<br />The book, unlike many of the contemporaries that expose austerity of life under Red Horror, is shockingly realistic and yet not a tale of suffering, at least that is not what Gao intends it to be. The delineation is so genuine and faithful to the reckless truth and excruciatingly painful purging that only men in Gao's generation can identify with. The reality is almost too heartrending to bear, even in words: the acrimonious politics, the class struggles, and a society that is riddled with paranoia and fear under such taut repression and miasma.<br />Gao reflected on his childhood and adolescence, cudgeled his memory of China's most obstreperous times, and yet found an incredulously detached voice as if he is an outsider to all the horror. His narrative in the book is almost a form of joy without any connotations of morality. He is indeed like an outsider who narrates transparently the events, who scrapes off the thick residue of resentment and anger deep in his heart and articulates his thoughts and impression with amazing equanimity, and audacity. <br />The result is a brand new voice in modern Chinese literature, a genre that deviates from post-modernism. It is a pure form of narration in which he contrives to describe in simple language the terrible contamination of life by politics, the tragic infringement of human rights, and at the same time manages to expunge the pervasive politics that penetrates every pore and sense. One can realize that Gao has carefully excised the insights that he possesses at the instant and in the place, as well as shoving aside his present thoughts.<br />The meaning of the title is at total loggerhead to any preoccupied speculation that readers might possess prior to reading the book. Gao contrives not to write about politics though he means to accent his memories during the dark period. The outcome is a stunning account of man person's fate is being miraculously and calumnously determined with surpassing accuracy than the prophecies of the bible, attributing to the policies and regulations that fluctuate so frequently, according to the bitter contention of Party members. <br />As accurate as it claims to be, the dossier, which exists for each individual, is generally inaccessible to the general public, does not necessarily reflect the truth (including mentality, thoughts, political stance, and affiliations) of individuals. People learn to wear a mask, to extinguish their voices, to hide their true feelings deep at the bottom of their heart in the midst of paranoia. Everyone seizes the opportunity to put on an act to score some good points for himself. Nobody dares to look one another in the eyes for fear of betraying any allegedly reactionary or counter-revolutionary thoughts. <br />The sense of time is warped as Margarethe, Gao Xinjian's Jewish lover, stirs up his memories of the embittered childhood under the shadow of Mao in a hotel room during pre-handover Hong Kong. Though a fictionalized account, Gao has engaged in a dialogue that produces a state of mind that allows him to endure the pain of articulating the painful events. To him the country doesn't exist but exists only in memory that the country is possessed by him alone, and is thus a one man's account. The book is an epistle of freedom that is obtainable only through seizing the moments in life and capturing instant-to-instant transformations.<br />2004 (11)  MY	2004-03-04
US	51341166	R30ZMLDMM1QYGW	0375756884	648013861	The Best Short Stories of Fyodor Dostoevsky (Modern Library)	Books	5	68	74	N	N	Dostoyevsky's creative power and profundity of thought	This collection of seven stories presented in chronological order, by David Magarshack, is not only unique to the Modern Library classics series but to all published works. This celebrated translation explores many of the recurring themes in Dostoyevsky's longer works and presents apropos the silhouettes of his characters in novels. The short works accent his creative power and profundities of thought and manifest his tour de force as a raconteur. <br />1. White Nights (1848)<BR>The title refers to the twilight summer nights in Petersberg. A tender and romantic story, this piece to a large extent is autobiographical of the days Dostoyevsky spent alone in Petersberg. The main character is a dreamer who cannot remember what he was dreaming and sometimes had no recollection of how everything had all happened. A sentimental theme develops against the background of Dostoyevsky's own personal impressions during his nocturnal wanderings, filled with gentle humor and delicate touches of genuine feelings. This piece affords vague hint of theme in Crime and Punishment. It is a story that odes to a moment of bliss that is sufficient for a whole of a man's life.<br />2. The Honest Thief (1848)<BR>The central character of this piece is an anti-hero whose tragedy consists of his helplessness to shun and to resist evil. Like \\"White Nights\\", this piece again paves the way for the longer work in the sense of punishment. <br />3. The Christmas Tree and a Wedding (1849)<BR>David Magarshack calls this piece the most artistically perfect short story in Dostoyevsky's early days as a fiction writer. It happens to be my personal favorite besides the uncompromisingly cynical \\"The Notes From Underground.\\" The piece is savagely satiric and ridicules the preposterous, fawning adults in high society. Dostoyevsky delineates an indelible scene of pure joy only perhaps manifested in our children during the very first years of their life. Through the narrator's admiration for the children, the absurdities of their parents are shamelessly magnified to the fullness. A career opportunist, in spite of his importance and dignity, went out of his way to pursue an underage heiress, an object of his desire that could not become a real object at least another five years.<br />4. The Peasant Marey (1876)<BR>Dostoyevsky probably adds new touch and imbues his sentiment in depicting this anecdote with a serf during his early childhood. Written during his imprisonment in Siberia, this piece captures the vividness of a brief encounter that must have been hidden in his mind without even his knowing it. Only God perhaps might have seen from above what profound human feeling, delicate tenderness the heart of a serf who neither expected nor dreamed of his emancipation.<br />5. A Gentle Creature (1876)<BR>This is one of the least comprehensible pieces in this collection despite the style of writing conveys the reality of the situation. Dostoyevsky himself regarded the story \\"eminently realistic\\" and surely accents the psychologist in him. A husband tells of the events that invariably led to the suicide of his wife. The rambling, fragmented, bearing-no-cause narrative style epitomizes the thought-process and speech of an inveterate hypochondriac. Succession of memories dawns on him the truth as the prose takes a more concrete form. The story explores the rare theme of insensibility in human relationships.<br />6. Notes From Underground <BR>Doubtless Dostoyevsky's most significant short work, this piece inaugurated existential literature in the 19th century. The Underground Man goes out of his way to offend his hearers, with frequent contradictory comments, rambles on with no reason and bears no cause. So often does he mean to say something but conceal his last word out of fear. The Underground Man is ubiquitous in society and is shadowed in those who feel disgusted with real life. The personage transcends the personal struggles and assumes a universal significance that embraces mankind. It is reminiscent of \\"White Nights\\" only that the latter flows along the pleasant surface of human thought and emotion. <br />7. The Dream of a Ridiculous Man<BR>The piece along with \\"The Notes from Underground\\" voice Dostoyevsky's final judgment of mankind. It explores the purging of conscience and the existence of human being and consciousness.<br />The collection shows that Dostoyevsky is capable and adept in surveying the human scene with complete detachment. It serves as a fine introduction to Dostoyevsky's works and as a prelude to his longer works.<br />2004 (9)	2004-02-21
US	51341166	R2X3FS0K9BS657	0395957753	998771826	The Robe	Books	5	32	41	N	N	Jesus still surprises us	The Robe probably has transcended its original scope of reconstructing the life of Jesus and his stamping on the mind of many about the coming of his new kingdom. Douglas has not only added new touch and sentiment to the story of Jesus, but also invigorated the historical period a skein of unforgettable characters whose lives were touched and thus inevitably changed their lives by Jesus' teaching. <br />It might be difficult to conceive that Marcellus Gallio, son of a prestigious Senator and a Tribune; Diana, the granddaughter of the Emperor Tiberias; and Demetrius, the Greek slave from Corinth, to believe Jesus' miracles and his resurrection. Lloyd Douglas has written truly a religious classic, one whose appeal is not limited to a particular time or a particular place, through the delineation of the characters' own struggle to cross that arbitrary line beyond which the credibility should go.  .<br />Marcellus was a Roman soldier who by a fortuity executed Jesus' crucifixion and subsequently won Jesus' robe as a gambling prize. The robe symbolized his crime, the crime of recklessly crucifying an innocent man who exhausted him life in advocating love, kindness, and goodwill. The memory of the crucifixion, had been an interminable torture that plunged Marcellus into a deep melancholy. Demetrius could never tell when his master was hit by a capricious seizure that sent sweat streaming his face. <br />The robe miraculously healed the inconsolable Marcellus as he touched it. From there Marcellus set off on a quest to seek the truth about the robe and the Nazarene who claimed to own his kingdom somewhere not in the world. Testimony about Jesus' miraculous power, which to a large extent agrees with my nostalgic memories from the bible, had been cumulative and that it had been coming at Marcellus from all directions. Jesus' teachings and the marks he left on those whose lives changed had penetrated Marcellus' skeptical mind and descended in him a sense of duty and mission.He had killed this man who had spent his life doing kind things for needy people, and the only way he could square up for it was to spend his life like Jesus did.<br />It dawned on Marcellus that a thorough understanding of Jesus and his teachings required faith and surrender rather than a recondite knowledge. This point bespeaks the minds of modern-day Christians who involuntarily proceed to push the intrusive concept away no matter how convincing the evidences of supernatural power in the miracles are. His slave Demetrius, who had been inebriated by Jesus long before his master, had such an indomitable faith in the truth of Jesus' resurrection though his master had vaunted his frustration and indignation over him. <br />Quest for the robe also accents the beauty of a master-slave relationship. Demetrius' life had become so inextricably related to the life of Marcellus that his freedom, if it was offered him, indeed by the Senator as he was to take Marcellus to Athens, might cost him more in companionship than it was worth in liberty of action. When offered his freedom, Demetrius magnanimously denied it at the peril of his master's recovery. The witty slave also directed to have Marcellus disguised as a fabric connoisseur in order to penetrate inconspicuously into Galilee to capture wind of the savior. It was not surprising to see that the whole quest for the robe made the master-slave relationship difficult to sustain.<br />Ancient Rome against which the book sets accents the significance and validity of men's faith. The quest for the mysterious truth allowed Marcellus to take on a different perspective with the world, especially Rome with which he felt so out of place. He began to despise its injustice, to pity its tragic unhappiness, and to shun the avarice of the influential ones. Marcellus felt his own obligation to associate with a movement that the Government had outlawed, had labeled seditionists, and unflinchingly preached the word to everyone. He embarkedon the defense of a good cause Jesus started and had yet to finish.<br />2004 (10)	2004-02-21
US	51341166	R2MTZA6QXEMQDV	0156001411	770567673	The Gospel According to Jesus Christ	Books	4	7	9	N	N	An alternate perspective that magnifies irreverence	Saramago deftly embraces historical facts, myth and reality and juggles them in this extraordinarily fictitious account of Jesus Christ. The novel is an in-depth psychological portrait of a savior who possesses a touch of humanity so much more substantial than the Bible claims. Jesus who is at once the Son of God, the beginning and the end, men's destiny, and a young man of the earth is an interweaving of letters, irony, spirituality, irreverence, humanity, and foible.<br />The novel hinges on the fact that Jesus' father, Joseph of Nazareth, out of cowardice and selfishness of the heart, failed to alert the parents that King Herod had issued a decree to kill boys under the age of 3. He could have spared the lives of 27 children had he spoken up. Joseph felt the scruple of running off to save his own son but had forfeited the lives of others. The guilt he felt was exactly guilt a man may feel without having sinned or committed the actual crime himself. It was the sin of omission.<br />To assuage his remorse that incessantly plagued him, Joseph, as he truly believed he was acting out of his own accord and obeying God's will, made strenuous effort to beget more and more children to compensate for the 27 lives. When Jesus learned about Joseph's crime, Jesus felt poignant for his father but asserted that his father was to blame for the deaths of innocent children. Joseph's sin was illustrated to full actuality as Jesus envisaged infants dying in perfect innocence and parents who had done nothing wrong. Jesus was embittered and broken at the fact that never was a man more guilty than his own father, who had sinned to save his life.<br />Joseph's death, which was rather dramatic and undeserving, bore the scruple of his own conscience and arose the question of what awaited him after death. Would it be possible than everything ended with death? What would happen to the life's sorrow and sufferings, especially the sufferings right before the last breath? What about the memoryif time is such an undulating surface than can only be accessed by memory, would memory of such suffering linger at least for a short period of time? Saramago has repeatedly made claims to explore the notion of after-death and its correlation to human existence throughout the novel.<br />Jesus under Saramago's pen is not as perfect, impure, and righteous as the Bible portraits him to be. One sees that the savior succumbs to temptation, to not receiving the cup of death, to choose to remain on earth and not to be crowned with glory. The most provocative and controversial aspect of the book is when Jesus intervened the stoning of an adulteress, which brought him to awareness that he was living in sin with Mary Magdalene, and thus living in defiance to God's will. The sin of adultery (sexual immorality as the Bible claims) brought Jesus into open conflict with the observed law. <br />The book is not deprived of interesting dialogues in spite of the serious overtones of theology. My favorite is the conversation in which the Devil pleaded with God to admit him into the kingdom. God curtly denied the request asserting than the good God represented would cease to exist without the evil Devil represented. In regard to the meaning of human existence and the pursuit of holiness, Saramago does leave us with an enlightening thought (with such sober dignity) that the soul, in order to be able to boast of a clean and blameless body, has burdened itself with sadness, envy and impurity. <br />2004 (8)	2004-02-05
US	51341166	R2MFDU7LWYV429	0486295729	810233317	The Double (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The Double - Significant, short work of early Dostoyevsky	Golyadkin is a government clerk who, decreed by fate, encounters a man who not only resembles him exactly but is also his namesake. Golyadkin's own musings and foreshadowing along with his curious actions all afford hints and glimpses of a psychological realism that persists throughout the novel.  On a stormy night in which Golyadkin tried to regain his composure after the hails of slights had descended him at a private party of the high society, he met his double. The double (who was subsequently being referred as the Golyadkin junior and the adversary), with bold effrontery, went out his own way to show Golyadkin impudence, insulted Golyadkin, and purloined Golyadkin's papers in order to win approbation of the double's superiors at work.<br />Like \\"Notes From Underground\\", \\"The Double\\" is a close examination of human consciousness, through an unreliable narrator. I repeatedly raise the question whether this imposture really happens? Does the Golyadkin junior (the double) really exist in cold fact? What really happens at the end? Perhaps the real horror of Golyadkin senior (whom Dostoyevsky eventually refers him as our hero) is that he unconsciously knows his double simply being the side of his own nature that he disapproves, despises and fears? Regardless of the existence of the double, the imposter has simply trampled Golyadkin in the mire, perfidiously intruded him, and showed clearly that the senior and also the genuine Golyadkin is not genuine at all but a counterfeit, and that Golyadkin junior himself is the real one. The book is a portrait of the darker side of despicable personality that magnifies to the full actuality.<br />2000 (6)	2004-01-30
US	51341166	R17NQVV94SQX0J	0316769495	551899474	Franny and Zooey	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Transcendent message at the end	J. D. Salinger has a knack about puzzling his readers to the very end of the book and redeems himself with transcendent concluding remarks. \\"Franny and Zooey\\" does not possess much surface appeal as the more known \\"The Catcher in the Rye\\". The book does not really follow a conventional plot and is thus deprived of any suspense and climax. It is rather a crafted delineation of human emotions, nuances and layers of the relationships between adult siblings. Salinger, putting his arguments in the mouth of Franny and her brother Zooey, addresses the disparities between Christianity and Buddhism and the convergence of Eastern and Western thoughts. <br />Franny, 20, the youngest of the Glass children, is about to drop out from college as she feels sick of pedants and conceited egos. She desires to be spiritual and to pray incessantly to Jesus whom she later on out of frustration deserts for Buddhism. Franny experiences a spiritual crisis that leads to her nervous breakdown. She feels just as shallow and hypocritical as the rest of humanity.<br />Zooey, 25, a handsome aspiring actor, is an underachiever in the standard of the Glass family. His eldest brother Seymour had a doctoral degree but committed suicide during his vacation in Florida. His next elder brother Buddy cajoles him to obtain a doctoral degree just so he has something to fall back to if the show business doesn't work out. In helping Franny to snap out of her crisis, Zooey's bitterness toward his elder brothers inevitably surfaces that out of jaundice he expressions his feeling like being haunted by a house-full of ghost and half-dead ghost (since Buddy follows Seymour's model but he doesn't commit suicide).<br />At various points of the book am I stuck with doubts and unanswered questions regarding Franny's sufferings. To say the least even though the book touches upon some religious overtones but the core of which revolves around the idea of human ego, detachment, harmony and temperance. The novel affords asnapshot of how elder adult siblings can significantly influence their younger siblings at an early stage and formulate their mind. Readers shall catch a glimpse of the clash between old-schooled values and novel insights of the younger generation within a family.<br />2004 (7)	2004-01-30
US	51341166	R1U0Q926318MLI	067973452X	286460989	Notes from Underground (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A study of human consciousness	\\"So long live the underground. I already carried the underground in my soul.\\" This best epitomizes Dostoyevsky's Notes from Underground.<br />The book is not easy to read let alone to digest. Dostoyevsky again placed some of his favorite arguments in the moth of a character (the 40-year-old underground man) he despised. The underground man self-proclaims to be angry and sick at the very beginning and goes out of his way to offend his readers. The book reads like a delirious man's babbling, in his own shy, wounded, and exorbitant pride. While a novel usually needs a hero, but here Dostoyevsky had purposely collected all the features of an anti-hero: self-contempt, wounded vanity, conceit, and sensitive ego. <br />Even though the underground man might be extremely egotistical and has no respect for others, Dostoyevsky never meant for him to have any surface appeal. The recurring themes of the narrative revolve around the underground man's alienation from society, which he despises, his bitter sarcasm, and the heightened awareness of self-consciousness. He larks to revenge himself for his humiliation by humiliating others. I don't think Dostoyevsky meant for the underground man to be liked and pitied by the readers. In fact, our anti-hero is inevitably targeted for Dostoyevsky's harsh satire. <br />The first part of the book (titled The Underground) introduces the anonymous underground man and his outlook on life. The second part (titled A Story of the Falling Sleet) sees how the man with heightened senses of ego and awareness submerges voluptuously into his underground, motivated by many contradictory impulses. Dostoyevsky paints not only a complex portrait of an anonymous personage who lacks surface appeal, but also a society in which people are so unaccustomed to living and the manners of which that they feel a loathing for real life. Notes from Underground is an egocentric man's monologue that is abound with fascinating nuance which reveals itself only upon close reading. <br />2004 (5)	2004-01-19
US	51341166	R335MXSZOW4QMT	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	1984 or 2004?	Eric Blair's 1984 is not only his finest work but also one of the most influential and provocative books of our time. The work obviates to us to full actuality how the world had evolved for the worse during the dark period from 1932 to 1949. Winston Smith and O'Brien are the most important characters whose keystone dialogue raises alert for the prospect of human future.<br />Prophecy or Caution?<br />While we might prefer to interpret \\"1984\\" as a precautionary tale or some social warning, bloodshed, warfare, massive torture and murder, not to mention Stalin's cruelty, the Nazi mechanized techniques of organized massacre, the Cambodian, the Iranian and the Iraqi, the North Korean, and all the other countless horrors, have inevitably to a certain degree changed \\"1984\\" from caution to warning, further elevating the work to a 20th century prophecy.<br />Despair about Future of Man<br />A sense of hopelessness about the future of man hovers over the book. In a way \\"1984\\" is an expression of such a hopeless mood about the bleak future of man. It warns readers that unless the course of history (and leaderships) changes men all over the world will forfeit most of their human qualities and become soulless automatons without being aware of the depravity.<br />In the Winston Smith-O'Brien dialogue, \\"Imagine a boot stamping on the human face-forever\\" might have exaggerated the current state of human soulness. The 20th century history has confirmed and fulfilled dehumanized practices as mentioned in \\"1984\\" like 24/7 surveillance of all sounds, activities, and conversations; deprivation of freedom of speech, penitence for thought crime and wiping out of existence and memory and thus forfeiting any way to make appeal to future. For example, a Party member lived from birth to death under the eye of the Thought Police. Even when he was alone he could never be sure he was alone. Wherever he may be, he could be inspected without warning and without knowing that he was being inspected.<br />The Party tacitly encouraged prostitution as such outlets for instincts that could not be altogether suppressed. This unforgivable crime was promiscuity between Party members in order to remove all pleasure from sexual act. Even to his wife, a Party member was expected to have no private emotions and no respites from enthusiasm. A real romantic love affair was all it took to crumple the Party. Desire was deemed thought crime, which entailed death.<br />The Party saw that it was not infallible and that all its belief rested on the omnipotent Big Brother. It therefore called for an unwearying, moment-to-moment flexibility in the treatment of facts-alteration of the past and rewrite of history in order to wipe out existence of certain human beings and historical facts. It was not merely that speeches, statistics, and records of every kind must be constantly brought up to date in order to show that the predictions of the Party were in all cases accurate. It was also that no change of doctrine or in political alignment could ever be admitted. Whatever the Party held to be truth was truth. It was impossible to see reality except by looking through the eyes of the Party.<br />Notwithstanding the Party contrived to have its way and imbued the belief in people, how could the Party control people's memory? The Party had wiped out most of the older generation during the great purges and the few who survived had long ago been terrified into complete intellectual surrender (sounds familiar like the Chinese Cultural Revolution?)  When memory failed and written records were falsified, the claim of the Party to have improved the conditions of human life had got to be accepted, because there did not exist, and never again could exist, any standard against which it could be tested.<br />\\"1984\\" is meant to be read as a warning, an exhortation, and not so much prophesy. However exaggerated and haunting the negative utopia is being depicted, the book is a startling work of an imaginary world that is convincing. 4.0 stars.<br />2004 (4)	2004-01-03
US	51341166	R70B9JMNIG7	0141439556	363093333	Wuthering Heights (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	A transcendent love that surpasses grief and death	Reading Wuthering Heights is like a journey into a dream abound with entangled relationships, bitter vengeance, and how the innocent heirs from feuded families struggle to escape the macabre legacy of the past. The person who unraveled the history behind Wuthering Heights was Lockwood, a new tenant of the Thrushcross Grange who was forced to seek shelter one night at Wuthering Heights, the home of his landlord Heathcliff.<br />Heathcliff was kidnapped and shipped to England, grew up under the roof of the Earnshaws. Old Earnshaw took a liking of the young Heathcliff while his son Hindley persistently and insidiously grumbled long string of tales against him and treated him like a house servant after the old Earnshaw passed away. At Wuthering Heights the young Heathcliff cultivated a consummate bonding with Catherine Earnshaw who later on betrayed him and married Edgar Linton.<br />Love<br />The novel's pivot tends to focus on the power of the central relationship between Catherine Earnshaw-Linton and Heathcliff. However dark and vindictive the novel might have turned out, the work's attraction, as a love story is not difficult to extract. Catherine loved Heathcliff because he was more herself than she was. Their souls were made of the same materials. Her soul, her heart, and her conscience reproved and convinced her that it was wrong to marry Linton, though Heathcliff might appear to be an unreclaimed, uncultivated creature, which would degrade her. In her final words to Heathcliff, the embittered Catherine Earnshaw writhed in torment. Here the novel has attained to the fullness the celebration of such transcendent love, which has surpassed the bounds of mundanity and death, despite the fact that their reunion was marked by dejection, regret, and bitterness. To Heathcliff the entire world was such a dreadful conviction of memoranda that he had lost his beloved Catherine Earnshaw, even though her daughter Cathy asserted that nobody would love him nor cry for him when he died.<br />Vengeance<br />Heathcliff's eye-for-an-eye vengeance visited upon the next generation. To revenge on Hindley Earnshaw's being acrimonious to him, Heathcliff determined to make Hindley's son Hareton a brute. He never taught him how to read or write, never rebuked him for any bad habit and never led him a single step toward virtue. When Heathcliff later became master of Wuthering Heights, he reduced Hareton to a mere house servant and deprived him of any wages. Edgar's daughter Cathy was forced to marry Heathcliff's sickly son Linton who braced the brawl of the previous generation by reviving how Cathy's mother had betrayed the man she loved for her father Edgar Linton. Through his son Heathcliff meant to usurp Edgar Linton's property at Thrushcross Grange and confiscated Cathy's fortune. The heirs (Cathy Linton, Hareton Earnshaw, and Linton) strived to escape from the bitter rift of the previous generation. The second half of the novel (volume ii) somewhat signifies such restoration of order and balance in this second generation.<br />Dream/Stream-of-Consciousness<br />The appearance of Catherine Earnshaw's ghost in the early part of the novel proves to be such an appropriate notion to set the tone of Wuthering Height. The house servant only proved the house was haunted at the expense of the new tenant Lockhood, the ghost also challenged the limits of life. Wuthering Heights as a whole conveys a sense of vagueness and ambiguous plausibility. The notion of dream proved to be a significant source of understanding as both Catherine Earnshaw and Heathcliff envisaged their happiness in dreams, and Catherine articulated the dreams' informing power to Ellen Dean, who narrated the story to Lockwood over the span of a night at Heathcliff's abode. The warped sense of time, the geographical remoteness, and social aloofness contribute to a dreamlike, stream-of-conscious setting. Such dreamlike setting offers an uncensored realm, free of logic and boundaries, to thetransgression of identity, sexuality, violence, and vengeance.<br />\\"May you not rest, as long as I am living. You said I killed you - haunt me, then.\\" The book obviates a transcendent love that surpasses grief and death. It is meant to be haunting. 4.5 stars.<br />2004 (1)transgression of identity, sexuality, violence, and vengeance.<br />\\"May you not rest, as long as I am living. You said I killed you - haunt me, then.\\" The book obviates a transcendent love that surpasses grief and death. It is meant to be haunting. 4.5 stars.<br />2004 (1)	2004-01-02
US	51341166	R1BMDBKKC96PR1	0156439611	466126836	If on a Winter's Night a Traveler	Books	5	36	54	N	N	Innovative experiment of reader-writer relationship	If, On a Winter's Night A Traveler is a rarity in fiction reading and writing in which the book boldly denounces the inveterate relationship between authorship and authority, proclaiming a revolution in which readers are to be liberated from the \\"tyranny of the author's single canonical meaning\\" and free to make their own interpretation. <br />The Plot<BR>A certain reader is reading a novel that breaks off into another novel and the reader seeks to investigate the origin of such unpardonable publishing mistakes. It turns out that a certain translator Ermes Marana had proposed a stratagem in which he would break off the translation at the moment of greatest suspense and would start translating another novel, inserting it into the first through some rudimentary expedient. When translating literature of a moribund language, he got confused and the texts that he had translated was from another novel by a Polish writer. Such production defect in copies on behalf of his egregious blunder repeatedly forced readers to abandon reading.<br />Through the help the very diabolical Ermes Marana, a Japanese firm plotted to manufacture author Silas Flannery's novels by computer and contrived to produce absolutely new ones in order to invade the world market. The books were re-translated back to English and none of the critics could have distinguished which from the true Flannerys. The books were really plagiarisms from little known Japanese authors of novels that, having had no success, were sent to be pulped. The art of writing and reading what an author means for a reader to read from the writing is brought forth to the full actuality through the reader's indefatigable effort to unmask the identities of translations.<br />Writer-Reader Relationship<BR>The author addresses directly to the reader and shapes the story in the perspective of the reader-in other words, the author somehow deprives his authority and has to involve reader into decision-making. The book has left open to the reader who is reading the possibility of identifying himself with the reader who is read: this is why he was not given a name, which would automatically have made him the equivalent of a third person, of a character, and so he had been kept a pronoun in its abstract condition-suitable for any attribute and any action.<br />Reading about Reading<BR>The book begins (and subsequently throughout which) asks the reader to reflect minutely on the very activity of reading, which most of us take for granted. The book itself is also about characters (readers) practicing such reflection so raptly (and so absorbed in their books) that the world around them falls away. The novel explores the complex relationship between reading (what is being read, what the author means for reader to read...), writing (what is being written and not explicitly written...), and publishing (how translation of text might have forfeited the meaning...).<br />Stimuli Reading<BR>The most magnificent aspect of If, On a Winter's Night A Traveler is that the book explores the relationship between what the author has written explicitly and how what is being written down in the book stimulates, evokes, and obviates past experiences, memories, and thoughts. Reader might remember very well everything he has read, perhaps for whom each book becomes intensified with his reading of it at a given time, once and for all. As a result, reader might have preserved the books in the memory and prefers to preserve the books as objects, keeping them within proximity.<br />Italo Calvino further explores this argument about reading a \\"different book\\" other than the one currently being read. Reader, in other words, might be reading another book besides the one before his eyes-a book that yet does to exist, but since the reader wants it, cannot fail to exist. Reading becomes some abstract idea through which reader measures himself against something else that is not present, something that belongs to the immaterial, invisible dimension, because it can only be thought, concocted, and imagined or it was once and is no longer attainable.<br />If, On a Winter's Night challenges reader to have seized on a thought that the text suggests to it, or maybe a feeling, or a question, or even just an image. The book encourages reader going off on a tangent and wandering from thought to thought, in such itinerary of reasonings that reader should feel to persue to the end. 4.5 stars.<br />2004 (3)	2004-01-02
US	51341166	R24UATZKJZ5YTT	0553265954	881120122	Darkness at Noon	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A synthesis of the lives of a number of men who were victims	Darkness at Noon, though often overlooked as one of a 20th century classics, stands as a significant fictional portrayal of the nightmarish politics of our time. The protagonist, Rubashov, is an aging revolutionary who was once a partisan commander and is imprisoned by the Party to which he had unconditionally and loyally dedicated his life. The book closely follows Rubashov's arrest and his agonized reflections throughout his imprisonment.<br />Through the reminiscence of a skein of characters, Rubashov re-lived his Party career that embodied the terrible ironies and human betrayals of a totalitarian movement masking itself as an instrument of deliverance. The book is meant to be a piece of fiction-a monologue of Rubashov's excruciating reflection of his party career, but reads like a social commentary and historical account as Rubashov is a synthesis of the lives of a number of men who were victims of the Moscow Trials.<br />Darkness at Noon lays out some of the most inveterate principles of a Communist regime: the Party embodies the will of history even though history itself maybe proven to be defective. The authority of the Party could never be questioned or challenged or else the Party will settle such disparity with death. In other words, the Party prohibits any swerve from its ideals-some theoretical future of happiness that is unattainable save for Party members can envision. <br />As interrogation proceeds, Rubashov is coerced to confess preposterous crimes that he never committed. False accusations are brought forth against him to the point such accusations wreck his nerves. Though Rubashov curtly denies committing any subversive acts in the industry entrusted to him, the accusation simply defines his motive as counter-revolutionary and that he had been in service of a hostile foreign power.<br />Darkness at Noon exposes the bone-chilling tactics the Party operates-it operates without scruples nor accommodation, never caters to any individual needs. The movement is like a river with bends that those who are not ready accommodate the river flow will be inevitably washed ashore. The book also outlines the psychological strategy that such regime uses to manipulate prisoners. A dark tale indeed. 4.0 stars.<br />2004 (2)	2004-01-02
US	51341166	R2PL7WHN3D1OMB	0141439513	503057596	Pride and Prejudice	Books	4	19	30	N	N	Which is worse - pride or prejudice? or is it stubbornness?	I welcome this new edition from Penguin Classics with expanded notes.<br />How does one demarcate pride and prejudice, or bias and stubbornness? In Pride and Prejudice, Jane Austen deftly exposes the folly of and further ridicules judging by first impressions.<br />When Elizabeth Bennet first met the fine, tall, handsome eligible bachelor Fitzwilliam Darcy, she immediately deemed him arrogant, conceited and utterly obnoxious. Her first impression of Darcy, who was initially looked upon with prodigious admiration, was quickly assured as his conceited manners gave a disgust which turned the tide of his popularity.<br />Darcy's conceit and selfish disdain of the feelings of others formed the foundation of Elizabeth's disapprobation on which succeeding events had built so inevitably a hatred. When she later found out Darcy had deliberately altered Bingley's opinion of her beloved sister Jane and determined to separate them, she was determined to exasperate herself as much as possible against Darcy.<br />In the comedy of manners that follows, Austen, in a superb manner and prose so elegant and lyrical, verbalizes the stubbornness, bias, and prejudices of Elizabeth toward a man whom resolved to be particularly careful that no sign of his admiration for her escaped him. Despite the fact that he struggled to maintain his composure, in his breast there existed a powerful feeling toward her, which soon procured her pardon and directed his anger elsewhere upon Elizabeth's weighty accusations of him.<br />Pride and Prejudice presents us a romance comedy with a modern feel and touch. The opening of the novel Fitzwilliam Darcy is blackened as the most obnoxious snob for whom \\"there is not another woman in the room who it would not be a punishment\\" to him to stand up with. To Elizabeth, almost all of Darcy's actions \\"maybe traced to pride\\" and \\"pride had often connected him to virtue.\\"  No sooner had Darcy's superiority of mind (pride) been fully exposed than Elizabeth's prejudicewas revealed.<br />Unlike her sister Jane, Elizabeth was more hasty in censuring anyone (especially Fitzwilliam Darcy) and never supposed the possibility of any extenuating circumstances in the case, let alone urging the possibility of mistake and misunderstanding. In confronting Darcy of his inexcusable act of separating Bingley and Jane, Elizabeth judged from assumptions, suspicions, and the biased first impression. In a sense she sought to discredit Darcy and the relation of events that might be capable of a turn which must render Darcy blameless throughout the whole affair.<br />When Elizabeth finally considered how unjustly she had condemned and upbraided Darcy, her anger and indignation was turned against herself and Darcy's dejection (more or less disappointed feelings toward her) became object of her compassion. Elizabeth's folly and rashness also become object of our compassion. How awful her petulance and acrimony of her manner in rejecting Fitzwilliam Darcy.<br />Pride and Prejudice evokes the fact that human nature is prone to pride and very few of us do not cherish a feeling of self-complacency on the score of some quality or another. Pride usually relates more to our opinions of ourselves, of which Elizabeth has epitomized. Pride is the real superiority of mind, when along with stubbornness, bias, and determination, would casue irremediable regret. The novel also evokes the friendship, the values of marriage, and snobberies of English middle-class life in the early 19th century. 4.5 stars.	2003-11-06
US	51341166	RSHBVNYC76BXF	0449002632	479109259	London: The Novel	Books	3	40	49	N	N	An epic that chronicles the history of London	Edward Rutherfurd's London embodies the noble history and heritage of the city in the past two centuries. Whether it is Rutherfurd's tour de force of story telling or a thorough research in the historical archive, London opens to readers the windows to the past, through the capricious, ever-shifting fortunes, lives, destinies, and amazing interactions of several families.  Their webbed hands characterized the Duckets who were down the family line of Leofric. The Silversleeves were of Norman descent and got brawny built. A hurried Norman clerk had made one of the few but egregious mistakes in which he forgot to record Duckets' ancestors as free. The Duckets, through some ever-shifting and checkered fate, existed also under the name Dogget.<br />London is nothing but a historical fiction that builds upon the history of the city over 2000 years, from Ice Age to Julius Caesar, to the Medieval, to Renaissance and present. So long as readers scrupulously follows the chronological account, the intricate family lines and the overlap and interactions between the very families, it is an absorbing read, though I do not find it intriguing. The book resembles a huge, endless compression of the lives of a sampling of Londoners during their respective times. Generations after generations, these very families coincidentally found themselves befriending, collaborating, fighting, persevering, revenging, marrying and colluding each other among the ever-shifting fortunes, destinies, political crisis, and wars. Family genealogy somehow holds the novel in one piece or else the book reads like a bunch of stories with innumerable characters.<br />Readers who are not familiar with London and its historical landmarks might find the book somewhat difficult to grasp. Rutherfurd gives succinct details on landmarks such as the Westminster Abbey, St. Paul's Cathedral, Buckingham Palace, Covents Garden, Royal Society of London, Twinings Tea Shop, Museum of London, West End, Soho, and the Big Ben.Rutherfurd uses these landmarks as backdrop to his characters. The author also deftly captures significant history of the city such as the Viking's invasion in 1088, the London Riot in 1189, the Black Death pandemic that hit all of Europe in 1348, the Peasant's Revolt in 1381, Civil War in 1649, the London's Fire in 1666, the establishment of the Royal Observatory in Greenwich in 1675, opening of Twinings Tea Shop in 1750, the Spanish flu pandemic in 1918, and Hitler's Blitzkrieg on London in 1940. <br />Incidences of literary interest were the authorship of the Canterberry Tales. Geoffrey Chaucer himself was among one of the characters. The English theater flourished under Queen Elizabeth's reign and Shakespeare wrote only half of all his plays when the period of theater ended. The Bible also infiltrated London in 1382 and raised such alarm among church authorities. Almost concurrently the King appointed himself the Supreme Head of Church which entitled him the power to not only take in all revenues and appoint bishops and abbots, but to decide on all church doctrines just so to thwart heresy.<br />London could be a rewarding read should readers wish to learn about the history of the city under a literary context. It is a thorough factual account in literary form. But it is far less captivating as the book claims and readers might have to trudge a bit through the not-so-interesting and absorbing prose. Readers might not be able to recall most of the characters and the happenings despite the significant historical occurrences. 3.5 stars.	2003-10-24
US	51341166	R2TQ71QW1AVT8K	1403399387	300783429	Unforgettable	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Simple and unforgettable	It must be love at first sight and is meant to be. Chuck Marshall and Cindy Beck are high school sweethearts who aspire to succeed in life and build a family together. An unexpected twist of fate shatters their dreams and brings about irrepressible laments.<br />Like many teenagers, Chuck and Cindy hold part-time jobs, long for their driver's licenses that signify near adulthood, and cram for schoolwork at the library after school. Like many unhappy families, Chuck's family is unhappy in its own unique way. His parents are not only cold but also uncaring and nonchalant, waiting for him to graduate from high school and get out of the house. Unlike many teenagers, Chuck and Cindy remain true to their values that they are unwilling to lie about going camping on their own. Honestly helps Chuck earn favor in the eyes of Cindy's father who reassures his trust in the young couple.<br />The novel takes the young couple through the growing-pain times of high school where they have the thrills and challenge of Cindy competing in Miss Rodeo Queen for which Cindy trains strenuously at the stable for seven months. It is through the rodeo contest that the teenagers learn about the true meaning of happiness lies not on winning but the company. Another unforgettable, throbbing moment is the school talent show in which Chuck and Cindy perform a timeless duet &quot;Endless Love.&quot; The teenagers reassure their love for one another and that Venus has witnessed their unfailing love.<br />Up to the point when the couple graduate from high school and Chuck decides to join the Air Force in order to see the world, I am somewhat disappointed at the predictable, too-good-to-be-true story however profusely the love story has enthralled me. No sooner has Chuck joined the military, endured the turmoil in boot camp and awaited an overseas assignment than the novel takes a twisted, convoluted turn that triggers a shocking impact in the aspiring couple's lives. Is it really meant to be? Is unbearable grief really necessary to bring each floating bit of memory and love to full actuality? <br />The writing is simplistic, trimmed to the bone, with no satiating garnish and lyrical prose styling (which I normally savor in literature and historical fiction). The twist in the plot toward the final third somehow redeems the predictable, straightly chronological narrative. The reading experience is comparable to watching a one-hour television episode of a bittersweet romance. The book is meant to be unforgettable. A noteworthy debut. 3.5 stars.	2003-10-01
US	51341166	R1WVI8Z21R0QWT	0679755489	413604673	Death of Virgil	Books	5	52	56	N	N	A poet's stubborn pursuit of scruple	Hermann Broch's The Death of Virgil revolves about the poet's wish to burn his masterpiece, The Aeneid, and creates out of his signified keen senses and heightened perceptions a rich vision, with full actuality, the religious, philosophical and political impulses of the time. The novel should be read as an epic poem in four parts (water, fire, earth, air) that parallel to four movements of a symphony in which the manner of the theme and variations of each successive part serves as some kind of commentary and reiteration on the parts that have preceded it.<br />The book is arduous in reading, strenuous in contemplating the richly lyrical prose. Woven and sifted throughout are reflections and perceptions of Virgil's febrile yet lucid thoughts in such rocking rhythms that illuminate, to the full actuality, the macabre sensation of the drifting journey on which the poet is being carried by the bark of death. Death's signet was graved upon his brow. The epic closely accounts for the last 24 hours of Virgil's life as soon as the near-death poet returns to Rome from Athens. The uninterrupted flow of lyrical speculation begins at the port of Brundisium where the bark docks, lingers in the mental suspension between life and death, between the &quot;no longer alive&quot; and &quot;not yet dead&quot;, and ends with the journey to death, to nothingness, to a dimension of non-recollection and stillness.<br />Truth seems to be the recurring theme. The notion of truth is being illuminated and brought to full elaboration through the repeating insistence of reflections on life, death, memory, knowledge, perception, and philosophy. As the poet approached death, he admits with bitterness and cold sobriety that he has pursued a worthless, wretched literary life. The Aeneid, which is acclaimed by Caesar and to whom it is dedicated, has been a mere indulgence of beauty, self-sufficiently limited to the embellishment of concepts long since conceived, formed, and known, without any novel contribution in it. The truth of artistic inadequacies, lack of perceptions, thirst for superficialities, and egotism yields the decision to mock his works. Despite Caesar's effort to cajole Virgil, the poet comments that he lacks the perception, to which he never takes the first step, and yet nobody has ever attained the knowledge of truth of such perception. <br />The stream of consciousness technique renders the poet's final hours to the full actuality. In fact, Virgil regards death as the most significant event of his life (perception and knowledge of truth?) and is full of anxiety lest he miss it. His sense of time seems to be warped and each passing second has grown to some immense, throbbing, empty space which is not to be linked. The body and its human qualities are denuded and are stripped to the naked soul with the most naked guilt. For Virgil, death is part of life and the understanding of death enlightens meaning of life. Strong than death and the shackle of time is fate, in which the final secret of time lay hidden. It is for this very secret of time (and death) that the suspense and tension of the book not being thwarted. <br />The conversations are reproductions of external events and actual dialogues (Aeneid, Georgics, Eclogue, Horace Carmina) and their inclusion into the book's inner monologue (the narrative seems to have proceeded in the third person but soon has discerned that narrative constitutes to an inner monologue made up of Virgil's dreams, reflections, visions, and delusions) gains them an abstract touch. The flow of the book presses on through various tempi according to the degree of Virgil's consciousness. The more headlong the tempo (which usually occurs during Virgil's conversations with his friends, attendants, and Caesar), the shorter the sentence. The slower the tempo becomes, the more complicated the sentence structure (i.e. Part 2 - Fire). Virgil's reflections and musings manifest some interminable, richly lyrical prose that mirrors the dying poet's thoughts and ravings. <br />The writing also deftly alludes to the religious impulse at the time of Virgil. Talks of the coming of salvation bringer prevail in Virgil's conversations with Caesar, who denies the need of such salvation. In various occasions Virgil forebodes the coming of a savior who will not only live in the perception, but in his being the world will be redeemed to truth, whom will conquer death and bring himself to the sacrifice out of love for men and mankind, transferring himself by his own death into the deed of truth. Virgil's audacious statement signifies the turning point in history, the crisis of the godless era between the no longer antiquity and the net yet of Christianity. <br />From Broch's own words, nothing is really &quot;reported or perceived&quot; in the book but what &quot;penetrates the invisible web of sensual data, fever visions and speculations.&quot; The richness of the writing and its lyrics sharpens the contours of the concrete and brings to full actuality Virgil's musings and memories. It's a strenuous, challenging read that requires undivided concentration. 5.0 stars.	2003-09-29
US	51341166	R3KPAG5P83KDZ4	0142000272	289712823	Anna Karenina (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A timeless classic: Magnificent in its essence	Dostoevsky's The Idiot de-emphasizes the bitter, skein, entangled love between Aglaia, Natasya and Myshkin and through which voices the author's views on suffering, virtue and moral goodness. Tolstoy's Anna Karenina is the melodrama up to the same par that deftly follows the excurciating, convoluted love triangle between Alexei Karenina, Anna Karenina and Vronsky. The opening line of the book, \\"All happy families are alike; each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way,\\" succinctly bespeaks the various aspects, intricacies, and complications that contribute to the unhappiness of three related families revolving around Anna Karenina.<br />The story is a timeless classic. Anna arrives in town to help reconcile her brother, Stepan, with his wife Dolly. Dolly finds out about Stepan's affair with a former French governess. She seeks to revenge on his unrepentant behavior and to shame him for at least a small part of hurt he had done her. Though she manages to resolve with him, suspicions of her husband's unfaithfulness constantly torment her. While Anna appeases Dolly's crushed spirit and implored her to forgive Stepan, little does Anna know that her brief visit would irrepressibly alter her fate and throw her into a bittersweet convoluted affair with Count Vronsky.<br /> Handsome, intelligent, and cultivated Vronsky courts Kitty, Dolly's youngest sister who rejects Levin's proposal (though she cannot deny his love). When Vronsky later scorns her for Anna Karenina, Kitty refuses any commiseration, condolence, and condescension out of her pride. Her grief is precisely that Levin has made a proposal and that she has curtly rejected him (she pities him and thinks she deserves a better match) while the whole time Vronsky has deceived her. At the first encounter Vronsky beams at the sight of Anna's svelte, dazzling beauty, talks to her as if the words would determine their fate, and immediately decides that she can never and does not love her husband Alexei. Likewise, Anna finally comes to terms with her chronic sadness, which overcomes her that she is deceiving herself about Vronsky.<br />Anna is thrown into a frenzied conflict of emotions: qualm, fear, sadness, indecision, guilt, broods over lack of love, the desire of love. No matter how solicitous of her needs Alexei has been, Anna shuns him and is disgusted with his wonted coldness and indifference in their marriage. In the 19th century, a woman like Anna, who had involved in such affair was considered vile, corrupted, fallen, and disgrace. Indeed Alexei is most concerned in safeguarding his reputation, which he needs for the unimpeded continuation of his social and civil activity. He seeks to mitigate the situation as elders of society are displeased by the impending scandal. He is also in denial, in total complaisance, fantasizing Anna's passion (for Vronsky) will ease and grievous difficulty will pass and that his name will remain undisgraced. An inner disturbance causes him to feel an unwillingness that Anna be united with Vronsky unhindered. He regards Anna's nature as being \\"so corrupt, so perverted that perdition itself looks like salvation.\\" It is through the portrait of Alexei's mental suffering and agony that render Anna's character and her affair etched.<br />As Levin notices, Anna never tries to conceal or trifle all the difficulty of her situation. Such truthfulness in her makes her all the more indomitable and wins her Levin's justification. She glumly broods over not being able to see her son Seryozha (Count Lydia abets Alexei to tell the boy of his mother's death so as to end the situation) and Vronsky realizes that the boy, with all the sensitivity of feelings in a child, constitutes the most painful part (hindrance) of his relationship with Anna. The reunion of mother and son sees an outpour of tears, joy, and bittersweet tenderness that will make readers lump in the throat. Tears and sniffles might have rendered Anna speechless but the boy understands that his mother is unhappy and that she loves him.<br />An underlying theme that sifts through the book and indirectly joins the threads of different characters concerns the thirst, the desire, the quest and the perseverance for love. Anna perfidiously abandoned her marriage, bore the impregnable pain of parting with her son, eloped with Vronsky without a swaying in her faith of finding true love. Her doubt of Vronsky's unwholesome love for her destines her to a path of no return. Her jealousy of Vronsky's diminishing love, the longing to seeing him suffer, repent, and love her memory as if she is no more pave for her doom. The very self-destruction she brings upon herself will only wring in Vronsky a new pang of pain and regret.<br />Levin (my favorite character whose modesty and virtue I'm attracted to), whose wholesomeness is both a virtue and defect, experiences the pain of losing his brother Nikolai, whose life merges into one single feeling of suffering as his body writhes and grasps for breath. Levin feels the necessity to live and to love, though he dreads the lack of a Christian belief will rid of his life (provokes in him suicidal thought). Suffering in a sense refines him and empowers him to truly appreciate life and love his family. Levin represents an enlightening transformation.<br />Anna Karenina is magnificent in its essence. It is an intense, convoluted, and poignant portrait of an elite's decadence. The book is dramatic in Anna's outrageous affair with another married man, audacious in her fearless breaking away from shackles of social opinions; and engrossing in her enlightening of self and toward love through interactions of other characters. The writing captures the essence of suffering and emotional struggles. The characters and the lives they lead are deftly nuanced as if the novel was written yesterday. A timeless classics. 5.0 stars.<br />[New translation by Pevear and Volokhonsky]ther is unhappy and that she loves him. <br />An underlying theme that sifts through the book and indirectly joins the threads of different characters concerns the thirst, the desire, the quest and the perseverance for love. Anna perfidiously abandoned her marriage, bore the impregnable pain of parting with her son, eloped with Vronsky without a swaying in her faith of finding true love. Her doubt of Vronsky's unwholesome love for her destines her to a path of no return. Her jealousy of Vronsky's diminishing love, the longing to seeing him suffer, repent, and love her memory as if she is no more pave for her doom. The very self-destruction she brings upon herself will only wring in Vronsky a new pang of pain and regret.<br />Levin (my favorite character whose modesty and virtue I'm attracted to), whose wholesomeness is both a virtue and defect, experiences the pain of losing his brother Nikolai, whose life merges into one single feeling of suffering as his body writhes and grasps for breath. Levin feels the necessity to live and to love, though he dreads the lack of a Christian belief will rid of his life (provokes in him suicidal thought). Suffering in a sense refines him and empowers him to truly appreciate life and love his family. Levin represents an enlightening transformation.<br />Anna Karenina is magnificent in its essence. It is an intense, convoluted, and poignant portrait of an elite's decadence. The book is dramatic in Anna's outrageous affair with another married man, audacious in her fearless breaking away from shackles of social opinions; and engrossing in her enlightening of self and toward love through interactions of other characters. The writing captures the essence of suffering and emotional struggles. The characters and the lives they lead are deftly nuanced as if the novel was written yesterday. A timeless classics. 5.0 stars.<br />[New translation by Pevear and Volokhonsky]	2003-09-15
US	51341166	RMN7G4Q89TWXB	0192834118	187016080	The Idiot (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	36	43	N	N	Moral goodness impedes Myshkin from resolving his plight	The Idiot is Dostoevsky's second novel. The book is a hybrid of biographical sketches and anecdotes of the writer. The protagonist, Prince Myshkin, bears traces of his creator in his suffering of epilepsy. Dostoevsky often deviates from the main plot and voices his perspectives on pain, suffering, capital punishment, and moral goodness. <br />The notion of suffering incessantly sifts through the novel as if true suffering plays a key role in purifying the protagonist and granting him the overriding power to the [evil] society in which he seeks to gain acceptance. However excruciating and painful it might be, physical suffering and bodily agony would distract the mind from spiritual suffering. That is, the physical aching deprives functioning of mental thinking. The worst suffering, as Prince Myshkin contemplates, are the knowledge and the inevitable truth of one's imminent death, the invincible parting of soul with the body.  Being mindful of one's death would only perpetuate suffering. Readers should grip this idea and bear in mind.<br />Morally upright, magnanimous, forgiving, humble, loving, honest, virtuous and mindful of others needs, Prince Myshkin embodies all human virtue and goodness. He is almost like God, or perfecting to be like God. He is a man capable of an ideal. He is stuck and torn between the love of Aglaia and Natasya upon his return to Russia from medical treatment in Switzerland. Myshkin's self-stigmatizing, humble, and diffident element often agitated Aglaia whose love for him manifests to the full in her passionate recital of a poor knight poem. She shows desire to marry him despite the wonted taunting. She assures that Myshkin is more honorable than anybody is and nobody is worth his little finger let alone his heart and soul.<br />Out of volition and obligation, Myshkin believes he is responsible to rescue the vile, [evil] Natasya from her deranged mental state. The cause of his love for her was more than just the bewitching, demonical beauty: it is rather eagerness on Myshkin's part to be of service to his country after being abroad. He has long set an ideal and having faith in such ideal empowers him to give up his life blindly to it. Though Natasya is surprised at Myshkin's discerning words that she ought to be ashamed and that she is not what she pretends to be, she tortures herself by not falling in love with him lest to disgrace and ruin his life.<br />In her importunate letters to Aglaia, Natasya implored and coaxed her to marry Myshkin as she did not wish to besmirch him. But destiny plays a cruel joke on them. Myshkin bears such tender spot for the afflicted, disgraced women in Natasya. However pertinacious not to love him, Natasya acknowledges his irresistible impact on her and regards him as the first and only man she has met in her whole life that she has believed in as a sincere friend. When Aglaia accuses her being a manipulator, Natasya falls down on her knees and thwarts Myshkin from leaving, who then comforts her and agrees to marry her.<br />Many readers, myself included, would mull at the meaning of the title. It would be impossible to do Myshkin justice by abasing him as an idiot. A simpleton at best? Myshkin is looked upon as an idiot (from Greek meaning private and ignorant) for his not being compromised with the vanity, vices, [evilness], mendacity, and avarice of a vain society. Unyielding as he might be, it is almost like naivete that Myshkin always resolves to be courteous, honest, and trustful with everyone. Such naivete somehow gives way to philosophical outlook and idealism and thus ennobled him. Others harbor the effrontery to inveigle him, to launch a calumny against him in order to usurp his fortune. Maybe his ignorance of the vile and magnanimity for others' wrongdoings create in him an idiot (a private person).<br />The Idiot, as cumbersome and lengthy as it seems, is rather a simple novel in plot. Dostoevsky often deviates from the main plot to reflect (and to reiterate) his philosophy through the prince, somehow bears an overriding sense of mission in the society, if not the whole world. I have denounce some critics' portraying the story as some bitter love triangle, for Dostoevsky has no room for a melodrama. In an epic that evokes Tolstoy's Anna Karenina, Dostoevsky seeks out the most ordinary characters whose ordinary tales (Madame Epanchins' imaginative troubles and whining, Ippolit's nightmares, General Ivolgin's delirious memories of his childhood encounter with Napoleon) lend a special note of verisimilitude in the lives of Russians. <br />Like Crime and Punishment, The Idiot is dim, melancholy, doleful, and somber though the Epanchins, Lebedyev, and General Ivolgin animated, lightened up with a tinge of comic relief. Myshkin's desire to cure Natasya of her madness only relapsed himself into insanity. The Idiot evokes in readers a sense of tenderness and sympathy for the protagonist whose unyielding righteousness impedes him from resolving his own plight. 4.2 stars.	2003-09-11
US	51341166	RR4UPZOGJ470I	0156027941	75191466	Tales of Protection	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Ingenious but challenging	Tales of Protection is made up of four seemingly uncorrelated, independent stories that are later seamlessly stitched together through a coincidence of events. The beginning of the novel, the section titled Prologue in Heaven and on Earth, sheds light on the crucial element that will later help readers understand the correlation between the enthralling tales. The book itself ingeniously hinges on the nature of coincidence, chance, and luck and how these motifs have impartially played their roles in lives that span over a vast time interval. <br />Opening of the novel brings readers to Ekelund, England, in the present, to Wilhelm Bolt's coffin where the old man experienced the final moments of life: he had breathed his last breath and his spirit had yet departed. Bolt saw ethereal visions; images he had not seen before, things the living could not see like swirls of moisture and pollens in the air. He began to hear music behind the music, the whisper of ghosts and vibration of air. Bolt reminisced his life in an old estate in which his butler Andersen, an ape Jacob, and colonies of bees in hives kept his company. The retired engineer had an eccentric passion of keeping systematic records and journals of incidents of coincidence through networking correspondences and limited available literature. Events deeply affecting an individual's life had seemed the most significant and precious to Bolt. Lea Bolt, the grandniece, intruded the old man's sequestered life as she arrived in Ekelund by a fortuity. <br />A spark piercing through the gloomy Ekelund sky took the readers back a century to Sandon Lighthouse Station off the Norwegian coast in 1898. Once a junior lieutenant, Bernard Enberg arrived at the island where Kalle Jacobssen kept watch at the lighthouse by some circuitous fortuities (Enberg was the only option to fill the position after his predecessors had appendicitis and fell off a sea cliff respectively). A shipwreck had crushed his larynx and permanently rendered his voice hoarse. Had it not been Enberg, who had a penchant for music and reading, the organ in the chapel on the island should never have its voice restored. Josefa, Kalle's daughter, who suffered from occasional epileptic fits, shall never find a mentor in the ex-lieutenant who taught her to sing and to appreciate literature. Out of gratitude and friendship, Kalle took the brunt for Enberg after Enberg missed spotting a shipwreck in time. <br />As the lighthouse faithfully and indefatigably performed its duty ashore, dawn settled into Lord Lorenzo del Vitro's veranda and crept into his bed beneath the magnificent luminous ceiling paintings. The year was 1497 in Rome, Italy. Renaissance was in full force. Fiorello attended Lorenzo and took punctilious care of his scab-infested master who was fastidious about his living, and would not tolerate the least additional pain and the least irritation in his surroundings. When the miraculous power of a painting of Mary the Virgin of unknown authorship healed Lorenzo of his scabs and many others, Lorenzo researched the origin of the painting. Fiorello set out and met Giuseppe, a faithful apprentice who would have gone through fire for his master. Giuseppe reminisced his apprenticeship with Giralamo and divulged how his master painted the Virgin out of a shocking coincidence.<br />Darkness descended onto a World War II research camp in 1937. A mining engineer who was oblivious of danger warning ventured into a mine and fell off a drift and landed precariously on a hanging beam some 150 meters above a hallow cavity. His life was changed by this fall over the edge. <br />The tales are enthralling and stand independently but are ingeniously woven together. The key to the correlation between these tales whimsically hinges on readers' memory. Readers must read meticulously and scrupulously for the overlapping elements. The writing is nothing more scarcely than a nuanced, deft, in-depth portrait of the characters that breathe life into their existence through their professions (and their steadfast devotion), whether it was painting, beekeeping, lighthouse watching, mining or serving and attending a master in household duties. These tales also hinge on the coincidental change of life directions, of various personalities from diverse social strata, over a vast interval of time (at least 500 years). <br />Notion of protection sifts through the novel. Bolt sought to protect anecdotal accounts of coincidences as a true value to humanity. Kalle Jacobssen took the brunt to protect Enberg. Kalle's wife Rakel sought to protect secret of Enberg's fixing the organ as secret she knew that on the island there were not so many secrets on the long run. The tale regarding Lord Lorenzo and Fiorello in Italy, however, should require some patience as readers might themselves trudging through the religious overtones and debate over blasphemy and sin. <br />Tales of Protection is ingeniously written (though the overall translation could employ some pruning) and challenges readers' intellect and undivided attention to the subtlest details. A lack of punctiliousness will compromise the reading pleasure. 4.0 stars.	2003-08-27
US	51341166	R2TRVE186W4LZ2	0679727833	387162436	In an Antique Land: History in the Guise of a Traveler's Tale	Books	4	31	33	N	N	Unveiling the anecdotal history of the past	Amitav Ghosh's In An Antique Land is a hidden history of India and Egypt during the 12th century in the disguise of a traveler's tale. Amitav accidentally stumbled upon some letters of correspondence between Abraham Ben Yiju, a Jewish merchant living in India, and Khalaf ibn Ishaq from Egypt in 1132. In the margins of these letters Ben Yiju's slave Bomma was often mentioned in passing with a special note of affection. No sooner had Amitav discovered about Bomma than he, out of volition, ventured out to Egypt, sifted through fact and conjecture, through a large number of letters and manuscripts referring to the trade between the Indian Ocean and Mediterranean, piecing together Bomma's journey from India to Egypt.<br />In 1980, Amitav arrived in Egypt and over a span of five years he stayed in the villages of Lataifa and Nashawy. While Amitav diligently tried to fill in the details of the slave's life, whose record in medieval history was completely out of the ordinary, he befriended with enthusiastic Muslims who found him fascinating but incomprehensible. Amitav's landlord, Abu-Ali, was an obese, inimical, petulant man who was diligent in exploiting all moneymaking possibilities of his strategically located house. Shaikh Musa, who referred Abu-Ali obliquely to his avarice and acrimony, always watched out for Amitav and cautioned him to evade certain people in the village. Ustaz Sabry, a well-read history scholar who taught in Nashawy, and his students Nabeel, who aspired to work in the government but left stranded in Baghdad, Iraq at the outset of the Gulf War, cultivated with Amitav a friendship that later proven to be indomitable. <br />Amitav did not always meet the usual hospitality. To the eyes of Muslims for whom the world outside was still replete with wonders, a Hindu was uncivilized for the practice of \\"burning the dead\\". Villagers often stigmatized Hindus and admonished Amitav to civilize his country and people. Others attempted to convert him into the study of Quran. Even the children jeered at his lack of perspicacity in politics, religion, and sex. In one occasion, at the house of Imam Ibrahim, the healer and prayer leader of Nashawy, Amitav unwarily trespassed on some deeply personal grief that haunted the Imam and his family for years. The unfortunate and unintentional solecism incurred in the Imam an enmity toward Amitav.<br />In An Antique Land unveiled the mystery of Bomma whom Ben Yiju adopted into his service as business agent and later incorporated into his household. In unraveling the life of this Indian slave across some 800 years, Amitav deftly sheds light on the life of his master Ben Yiju and nature of patron-client, master-apprentice relationship in disguise of a master-slave one during the 12th century. The relics about Bomma was limited but the unexpected outcome of the search manifested a compendious picture of his master, Ben Yiju, who as a junior associate, partnered with a merchant Madmum. The letters between these two were full of instructions and certain peremptoriness prevailed beneath the usual courteous language. Madmum's warm and occasionally irascible tone suggested that Madmum regarded Ben Yiju with an almost paternal affection.<br />In An Antique Land delivers a tale of a quest that moves between the present and the past, between Amitav Ghosh's own life and the slave's. The narrative is rich in layers, cultural overtones, historical relics, and anecdotes. Readers will find arresting images of India and Egypt hidden under a deceptively plain surface of prose. 4.0 stars.<br />Matthew Yau (10Q_boi)	2003-08-09
US	51341166	R2I6FR94CKM2LW	0156001314	444581246	The Name of the Rose: including the Author's Postscript	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Intriguing, thrilling historical & philosophical literature	In 1327, Franciscans in a wealthy Italian abbey are suspected of heresy. Brother William of England and his scribe, who is a Benedictine novice and the narrator of the book, arrive to investigate. The timely arrival of the perspicacious brother coincides with seven bizarre deaths at the abbey. The spree of deaths from surreptitious cause claims the life of an illustrator Adelmo, a Greek scholar Venantius and other monks at the abbey.<br />The first fifty or so pages of the book brief the vicissitudes of churches and the emergence of heresies and diabolical practices. My first impression of the novel is some circuitous unraveling of heretics and power struggles between the Pope and the emperor. After trudging through these historical backgrounds and religious overtones, the book becomes nothing but an intriguing thriller in probing and unraveling the mystery behind all the deaths.<br />As Brother William traces to the bone of the mystery that seamlessly entangles the relationships and the paths overlapped the victims, it becomes perspicuous that the possession and theft of a banned book from the abbey library has led to deaths of scholars and monks in vein. The library, its promise, prestige, and prohibitions, incurs a strong hold on the monks and scholars who have sinfully coveted and hoped one day to violate all its secrets and gain access to the books. <br />While the abbot sternly tightens the grip of library access and so to thwart falsehood and infidel knowledge from befalling into wrong hands, barred from such knowledge only inevitably creates in everyone an insatiable lust for such materials. The very knowledge that the abbey has accumulated is used as barter goods, cause for pride, and motive for boasting and prestige. It has been adumbrated that a monk, stirred by unquenchable desires for intellect, will even comply with carnal desire in order to satisfy the pursuit of intellect.<br />The probe for truth sheds light as Brother William and our narrator indomitably ventures into the library, collects evidence, deciphers secret zodiac symbols and manuscripts, notes the library's subjects and arrangements, and thus cracks the labyrinth. Evolution of the librarian appointments at the abbey indubitably gives away the identity of the ultimate devil. <br />The Name of the Rose deftly evokes the paradox of truth. As William's investigation takes an unexpected turn and sheds light on the truth, the very unbearable truth that the abbot refuses to recognize and confronts out of fear of besmirching the abbey's prestige, Eco obfuscates readers with the ghastly consequence and the toll of the obsession with truth. Does truth really set one free as the Bible claims, or does it come with a price?<br />The Name of the Rose is a tale of a master's journey in unraveling a complicated knot at a sacred institution. Under the veneer of scholastic and immaculate surface is prurient desire for knowledge, covet for power, and scruple for sin against chastity. The interminable discourse on church history and heresy will be elucidated throughout the novel (so don't be discouraged by the difficult prose), as relevant personalities will recount their involvement with heretics. It's an ingenious, fine piece of literature that challenges bright minds. 4.5 stars.	2003-08-01
US	51341166	R60101U05OCPL	0812930002	156077656	East and West: China, Power, and the Future of Asia	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Auspicious prospect for Hong Kong and Asia	Written by Christopher Patten, the controversial last governor of Hong Kong under the British colonial rule, East and West is neither a book of memoir nor a hulking self-justification. Patten deftly draws on his experiences as Hong Kong Governor to formulate a number of arguments about Asia, about the conduct and implementation of economic policy, about the components of good governance, and about the relationship between political freedom and free economy. <br />Natives of Hong Kong would have to agree that Patten had struggled (wrestled with the Chinese leadership) in Beijing) to implement democratic institutions that would ensure Hong Kong's continued vitality and ability to prosper. On the verge of the 1997 handover which casted qualms for political and economic uncertainty in many Hong Kongers, Patten was in an awkward position where he was sandwiched between the Hong Kongers and the Chinese leadership. In several occasions (including this book), Patten stigmatizes the totalitarian system of the Chinese Communist system.<br />There had been incidences in which Hong Kongers accused Patten of betraying the colony and its 6 million occupants, of surrendering a free capitalist city to the ultimate Communist tyranny, with no negotiation and guarantee of human rights, freedom of speech, and autonomy. In the book, Patten draws on these sensitive issues and struggles to give his readers an up-close-and-personal look of the real Asia, not just Hong Kong, in all of its diversity. <br />Patten started penning the book back in 1996 and many of the events on which he has drawn in writing this book took place at a time when the Asian (Taiwan, Thailand, South Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Philippines, Vietnam, Hong Kong) economies seemed to be climbing like rockets. Stock markets triple-leaped and the number of millionaires tripled overnight. Patten regards what has happened in Asia, despite the recent setbacks, as on the whole exciting, unique, and vital for the region and the world. <br />Despite many Hong Kongers have dreaded the prospect of Hong Kong's return to Chinese sovereignty (which has proven to be worrisome in the recent rally against the passage of Article 23: security and subversion law), Patten sanguinely asserts that the die-hard Chinese leadership, while intending to demonstrate the feasibility of co-existence of Leninism and capitalism, will succeed in preserving a free market and liberal democracy in Hong Kong. So the horses will keep racing, and people will go on dancing, as promised by Deng Xiao-ping. The former colony will propser and remains intact for at least 50 years under the one-country-two-system policy.<br />Patten further asserts that what has worked for the West has already succeeded in the East, that what took place in Asia (especially in Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan) in the last thirty years was not disparate to the industrialization of Europe and the United States, only the Asian &quot;little dragons&quot; had evolved so much faster. Finally, Patten provides a global picture of the future, in which free markets and liberal politics sustain one another and attribute to economy prosperity. East and West delivers a personal portrait of Asia and its economic prospect, and how the East and the West come together as a whole in unifying the ideals of policy and economic conduct. 4.0 stars.	2003-08-01
US	51341166	R2WY8UQWW3W46J	0060528192	797565686	Terrorist Hunter: The Extraordinary Story of a Woman Who Went Undercover to Infiltrate the Radical Islamic Groups Operating in America	Books	4	60	64	N	N	Bone chilling, heartbreaking, sinister tell-it-all	Terrorist Hunter, by Anonymous, is bone chilling, sinister, and disturbing to read. While I am gazing fish-mouthedly page after page the inside scoops of terrorist groups into which this brave undercover woman infiltrates, an inexplicable sadness penetrates me: why is it that the good guys have to hide behind notwithstanding the terrorists enjoy the freedom in a country against which they hold a grudge? How could these people express such rabid hatred toward a country that has provided them shelter and freedoms?<br />Anonymoyus is an Iraqi woman whose father had been arrested and executed for being a spy. She escaped to Israel from Iraq and eventually moved to the United States. A mother of three whom gave up her prolific garment business in Israel, anonymous and her husband Leo started fresh in the United States. Driven by poverty and desperately needed a job, fate has brought her to an underground research institute that specialized in investigating, researching and scrutinizing Islamic charities and non-profit organizations in the US that function as the terrorist group fronts and have allegedly fund these groups in their Middle Eastern headquarters.<br />The sensitive and clandestine nature of the job requires the author to remain anonymous and infiltrate into numerous Islamic briefings, meetings, conferences, and rabid rallies. In doing so, she not only is able to identify such dangerous terrorist organizations, she also becomes an antiterrorism expert in tracing to the root, trimming to the bone, and nailing to the core those who headed such organizations and the means with which they bring mujahideens into the United States and the cunning routes through which money is transferred to fund the groups in the Middle East.<br />The book fearlessly and unreservedly unravels fascinating and shocking information on how the lack of sharing information, the lack of communication between INS, FBI, and CIA provide a loophole for the burgeoning decoy of terrorism. The main trouble with such bureaucracy is that it contains too many checks and balances, whether to restrain leak of intelligence or protect confidentiality. It is somewhat surprising that anything is ever decided. The inflexibility has disastrous consequences (manifest in the 1993 World Trade bombing followed by the 9-11 all-out-war attack) as it becomes salient that security bureaus are incapable of responding adequately to the challenges and threats the country faces.<br />More shocking is the fact that INS is not aware of the terrorists (and their real identities) who might be entering the country, as the immigration agency does not gather intelligence information. To make matter worse, the FBI and CIA, while gather up a voluminous amount of documents and intelligence, do not share such information with the INS. Anonymous depicts the FBI (and its policy) as being imbecile as it refuses to act before the crime is committed. As far as six years prior to the 9-11 attack, mujahideens who were apprehended in both the United States and the Philippines (where the terrorists planned to assassinate the Pope and blow up several jetliners over the Pacific Oceans) brought manuals detailing in hijacking, bombing, and assassinating techniques. The FBI has failed to properly use the information that could have been used to stop the murderers before they embarked on their deadly mission. What is scarier is that Usama Bin Laden has long conceived the idea of hijacking planes and crash them into the buildings, why are such documents and information overlooked?<br />As anonymous deepens her investigation, it doesn't surprise me that some of the largest charity organizations are working fronts and de facto financial arm for the Hamas in the United States. Leaders of such organizations are no freaks but university professors and scholars who had received an education outside of their homelands. These are supporters and preachers of barbaric suicide attacks and martyrdom. They invoke Allah's curse on the \\"tyrannical\\" Americans and who call for jihad and incite their worshippers to support the fight against the US and all Jews. Therefore, intelligence agencies make a huge mistake in disbelieving the Islamic fundamentalism is significant threat to the US and not following such leaders. Anonymous also makes a point that following Timothy McVeigh's indictment of the Oklahoma bombing, the FBI makes a bad move in dismissing the idea that the terrorists will strike home. What naivete. <br />Terrorist Hunter is a book that nobody should miss. The anonymous author has written an edge-of-the-seat, tell-it-all account of the surreptitious and deceitful functioning of the most dangerous organizations in the United States. Practices of such organizations are nothing but minatory and sinister. In writing this memoir, the author has not only risked her life but those of her children and family. In exposing the identities of the terrorists and their roots, the book also serves as a wake-up call to the intelligence agencies and call for a collaboration of these agencies to fight terrorism. 4.2 stars.	2003-07-22
US	51341166	R2A02JDKOWWENS	0060932139	104524934	The Unbearable Lightness of Being	Books	3	7	19	N	N	What's the hype about infidelity?	Milan Kundera's The Unbearable Lightness of Being explores the significance of existence and life responsibility (burdens and obligations) through characters' carefree attitude toward sex. However graphically and saliently Kundera writes about sex, the book is far from salacious and offensive.<br />A prominent surgeon from Prague, Tomas was torn between his love Tereza whom he had met through six fortuities and his many mistresses. His failed marriage had bequeathed to him fear of responsibility and attachment. He lived a life of \\"lightness\\" through no-strings-attached \\"erotic friendships\\" which stipulated his complete withdrawal of love in his life. Portrayed as a libertine, Tomas claims he was not obsessed with women, but what in each of them was unimaginable during intimacy the thrill of the gap between an approximation of idea and precision of reality.<br />Tereza, who throws herself into Tomas' embrace, seeks to escape from her mother all her life. In 1968, Russians invaded the country, which forced Tomas and Tereza to relocate in Zurich.  When Tomas' outrageous infidelities (sexual exploits) galled her, Tereza left and returned to Prague. Realized he had no chance to evade the Communists, Tomas wrote a denouncement of the Russians that exterminated his license to practice medicine. Tomas felt much \\"lighter\\" though being a surgeon was his deep-seated desire. Tomas abased to be a window washer but continued his sexual exploits.<br />In the meantime, one of Tomas' most favored mistresses Sabina, hit it off with a professor Franz. Out of his conscience and the volition to live in the truth, Franz divulged his affair to his wife and lived an unbearable lightness of being. On the other hand, Sabina felt the burden as her love became public. <br />The question becomes whether this \\"weightness\\" of life is laudable or despicable. If, like Kundera has asserted in passing at the beginning, the heaviest burden is an image of life's most intense fulfillment, then women shall desire a sexual orgasm in which they are weighted down by a man's body? <br />It's interesting to relate the notion of \\"weightness\\" to Kundera's another book, Slowness, which deals with the slowness with which pleasure (sexual pleasure perhaps?) should be attained. In an audacious statement, Kundera asserted that sexual intimacy being subdued to some obstacle to be overcome as quickly as possible in order to reach an ecstatic explosion. If such obstacle refers to the \\"weightness\\" of man that women try to get over, then the ultimate fulfillment of sex is forfeited and compromised. <br />Another interesting notion is lightness. What is lightness? How is it unbearable? Tereza wanted to learn about \\"lightness\\" after she moved back to Prague. Some readers might have accused her of taking revenge on Tomas' infidelities, inveigling him to return to the Communist reign and thus ruining his career, while she was exploiting the lightness and insignificance of physical love. So lightness becomes a euphemism of infidelity? <br />Political overtones and the pretentious rhetorical references to Beethoven and Nietzsche (and the obscure German phrase of which I have no knowledge) might take a native Czech to comprehend. What is it about a lack of political freedom that affects the sexual behavior of men and women I have no intention to understand. Such pretentious gestures only aggravate readers' confusion. The best way to approach this book, besides with an open mind, is to read it as is. The musings of individuals are far more appealing than Kundera's arduous attempt to psychoanalyze the characters. <br />The different parts of the book tend to overlap a little bit, especially true for the sections on Tomas and Tereza, whose lives are closely intertwined. The section titled \\"The Grand March\\" is filled with political and rhetorical references, which leave my scalp itchy. Through a third party in Sabina, readers will find out about the end of the couple's story. So what's the hype about this book besides the explicit and unrestrained affairs? 3.5 stars.	2003-07-18
US	51341166	R3UM6QNHYQSRLP	0679732268	161451712	Light in August	Books	4	8	13	N	N	Unforgettable skein of characters; stream-of-consciousness	William Faulkner's Light in August set in the south at times of slavery. What seems to be a tale of an ambitious, determined pregnant woman hitch-hiking out from Alabama to look for the child's father evokes the lives of a skein of interesting characters whose lives readers will not easily forget.<br />Lena Grove was pregnant with Lucas Burch's child. She set out from Alabama for Jefferson, Mississippi to search for the man who promised to send for her as he settled down with a job at the mill. Welled with anticipation and hope, Lena arrived at the plant only to realize that she had mistaken Byron Bunch for Lucas Burch.<br />As soon as the search shed lights Faulkner takes away Lena from his readers and defers her until the end of the book. Joe Christmas, a man with mixed ancestry (part white and part Mexican) somehow befriended with Lucas Burch who carried a fictitious identity &quot;Brown&quot; and colluded in bootlegging whiskey.<br />A substantial coverage of the book recounts Joe Christmas's childhood in an orphanage, his abused adolescence under the McEacherns, his mystifying affair with a slave advocate Miss Burden, and his apprehension after he allegedly burned down the house in which Burden resided in and thus murdered her. Brown sold him out for the thousand-dollar reward.<br />Byron Bunch, if not dredging overtime at the mill, would visit and keep accompany of Reverent Gail Hightower, who had be expelled by the elders in town after his adulterous wife committed suicide in Memphis. The ex-minister inherited a small income, gave arts lessons and handpainted Christmas cards. He was constantly plagued by visions of Confederate horsemen who killed his grandfather.<br />So go back and forth the narratives of the book, over vast intervals of time. Byron Bunch, who was in the know of Lucas Burch's dual identity from the beginning, deftly dodged Lena from the truth but arranged her to settle down at Burch's cabin. Together with Lena, Byron also ascertained the identity of Joe Christmas when the Hines, an old couple from Mottstown, arrived in Jefferson.<br />I don't want to elaborate on the aspects of symbolism (this book has an abundance of them). The names could be symbolic (Christmas, Burden, Bunch, etc). The notion of race and skin color is outrageous in this book. Joe Christmas led a tragic life as a desperate, oppressed, enigmatic drifter who was irreparably consumed by his mixed ancestry. His very own grandfather talked of lynching him because of his copper, parchment-colored skin.<br />Political overtones seep through the book. Miss Burden's father moved back south from California and spent much time cursing slavery and slaveholders. I get the impression that the curse of the black race is God's curse, while the curse of the white race is those whom the white race has suppressed. The chapter on the reverent is so obscurely filled with dissertation on sins (some of the most arduous, tenacious reading of the entire book).<br />The structure of the novel is worth a discussion. With 21 chapters, Lena Grove's search for the father of her child is deferred until the very end. Faulkner barely mentions her in passing in Chapter 14 when she settles down in Jefferson. The third and the second-to-the-last chapters devote to Reverent Gail Hightower. From Byron Bunch seems to be sewing all the pieces together as he recounts all the happenings in town and Lena Grove to the reverent. So everything in between shrouds the story the Joe Christmas. The result is a concentric ring structure Faulkner has astutely and deftly constructed in the novel.<br />Light in August deftly captures the Southern life focusing both on the personal histories of his characters and the moral complexities and uncertainties of an increasingly dissolute, diverse (of which Joe Christmas is an epitome, nobody recognized him as part Mexican) society. The book is a unique combination of a plethora of symbolism and a stream-of-consciousness technique. The characters stay with readers. 4.0 stars.	2003-07-18
US	51341166	R30N8AI45G4L4Q	0395901413	441763569	Kowloon Tong: A Novel of Hong Kong	Books	2	18	24	N	N	A cobbled piece of fiction	Paul Theroux's Kowloon Tong (meaning nine-dragon pond, a district in Hong Kong) is a novel of Hong Kong on the verge of the 1997 handover. Written against the historical backdrop of handing a free Chinese city back to a totalitarian Chinese state, Kowloon Tong is far less glittering from the inevitably rip-roaring story for the global media, it is a piece of cobbled (opportunistic, maybe) fiction.<br />Neville \\"Bunt\\" Mullard was born and raised in Hong Kong, went to the posh Queen's College, and inherited the almost-monopolizing Imperial Stitching Company, which manufactured badges sewn on breast pockets of sports-jackets from his late father and his partner Henry Chuck. At 40, Bunt was not married, devoid of friends, frequented bars and brothels, but felt the pressure of his dead brother, dead father, and the late avuncular Chuck hovering near him at work.<br />A pathetic mama's boy, Bunt lived a life that synchronized with his mother's, so confining and dull. She knew so much (too much) about his life, his daily routine and his where about that he deliberately contrived to create secrets (the topless bar and an affair with an employee Mei-Ping) and manipulated his mother's mood. <br />As the British prepared to hand over Hong Kong to the Chinese motherland, the much-talked-about upheaval did not concern the Mullards, who lived nonchalantly at the Peak (a rich-and-famous, on-top-of-the-city neighbor which afforded panoramic view of the city and was away from, say, 95% of the colonial population). They executed their social fares with the small band of Brits at the Cricket Club, the English tea ritual at the Hong Kong club, outings to horse races by taxi, and lived as if the city and majority of its inhabitants (meaning the Chinese) didn't exist. The Cantonese was such grating noise that was remotely similar to any human speech. The Chinese food made them retch. <br />When a Mr. Hung, who spoke perfect English with an American accent, on behalf of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (soon to station in Hong Kong), offered 9 million to purchase the building of Imperial Stitching, the Mullards' world of insouciance was jolted. Through a series of minatory gestures that might have attributed to the missing employee Ah Fu and janitor Woo, for the first time in their life the Mullards learned the truth of the colony's prospect-smiling but threatening and know-it-all Chinese officials behind a system of bribes and disloyalty. <br />I have to applause to Theroux's keen eye on the geographical and cultural details of Hong Kong that are usually accessible to those who live in the city, the natives. His effort in nailing down the Hong Kong Chinese to the root is admirable and formidable-the inveterate trait to look after family, to not to say the thing that was no the heart, to say \\"I don't know\\" when you knew, to not to show feelings and emotion and (this is my favorite) to mob the exit on arrival in any transportation mean as if it was a panicky evacuation under an emergency. That's Hong Kong, in addition to all the incessant noise-the clanking of trams, the beeping of cell phones, and the ubiquitous charivari of Cantonese conversations that sounded like a hair-pulling argument, serenaded the city.<br />The book also deftly captures Hong Konger's despondency of the uncertain future. For over 100 years, under the British governance, Hong Kong stood as the only Chinese society that lived an ideal never experienced and realized at any time in the history of any Chinese society. The colony, which practiced capitalism, provided a stable home for refugees from turbulent events of Chinese history such as the Cultural Revolution and the Great Leap Forward. Inhabitants of Hong Kong were those who fled the Communists in 1949 and their descendants. Thus in the proximity of 1997, a taut atmosphere hovered over the colony as everyone tried to secure an escape route, which usually manifested in the form of a foreign passport, a green card, a relative in Canada, or a marriage of convenience. Theroux has astutely seen to this political tension in his novel.<br />What infuriates me about this book and thus makes it a cobbled piece of fiction is the puerile plot. Theroux portrayed the Hong Kong Chinese women as some of the most nave and gullible and stupidest species of the human. Women were constantly abased, manipulated, used, and sexually abused. As a native of Hong Kong, I could vouch that the chance of an affair between a foreigner and a factory worker is infinitesimal. The affair itself was stuck in a deadlock and the characters that involved in the affair were one-dimensional. Betty Mullard's ruler-ver-subject attitude toward the Hong Kongers was also snobbish and obnoxious. If the Chinese were really so out-of-focus and were like riddles to her, why couldn't she at least try to know the Chinese people? It was true the British were rulers and the Chinese the subjects, but what infuriates me is the arrogance on her part, not knowing she was in Hong Kong, where the majority was the Chinese people. <br />It occurred to me toward the end that the stitching company and its fate might have served as a symbolism of Hong Kong but I prefer not to give away. The ending was disappointing and ambivalent. It is a cobbled piece of fiction that astutely delves in the significance of the historical backdrop but sacrifices the backbone of the story. Readers will learn more about the culture of Hong Kong but disappoint at the story. 2.5 stars.	2003-07-12
US	51341166	R3IXSKDRMFH8SX	0451528239	815634322	Nectar in a Sieve (Signet Classics)	Books	4	52	55	N	N	Beautifully written, affirming, and sad	Set in some village in India, Kamala Markandaya's Nectar in a Sieve is a gripping story of one indefatigable woman's survival of a checkered life, one that had no margin for misfortune. Neither does the book have surprises nor twist, but readers will find a determined, unrelinquished fighter in a woman who bears an unfailing faith and rams through impregnable clamor that invades her life. <br />Rukmani married Nathan, a tenant farmer whom she had never met, as a child bride. Even though Rukmani was ignorant of the simplest of tasks, Nathan never uttered a single cross word and gave an impatient look. He looked at her as if nobody had discovered her beauty. He never asserted his rights to forbid her reading and writing, a talent that placed Rukmani above her illiterate husband.<br />Misfortune seemed to have a tight foothold in Rukmani and Nathan. The monsoon inundated the rice paddies where Rukmani worked side by side with Nathan to wrest a living for a household of eight. No sooner had the monsoon tapered off than a drought ravaged the harvest. Hope and fear acted like twin forces that tugged at them in one direction and another. <br />Poverty-stricken Rukmani saw her daughter Ira become a prostitute, her 4-year-old son Kuti died from hunger, her teenage son Raja caught stealing and beaten to death, her oldest sons Thambi and Arjun set off to Ceylon to work in a tea plantation.  The opening of a tannery, of which Rukmani was only skeptical, had spread like weeds and strangled whatever life grew in its way, changed the village beyond recognition. <br />And yet, Rukmani survived. The interminable poverty and impregnable fate of Rukmani and Nathan must evoke in readers' pity and sympathy. But at the same time, Rukmani, whom Nathan always appeased, might seem somewhat self-piteous, cynical, and complaisant (like Dr. Kennington said, she needed to cry out for help). Ira, who exchanged her body for Kuti's milk and food, had lost her reason and given up her sanity ratherthan faced the truth.<br />A recurring theme of the book is the significance of land that fostered life, spirits, happiness and family. Rukmani often found solace in the land on which her husband built a home for her with his own hands in the time he was waiting for her. She often reminisced the very home to which Nathan had brought her with pride. The land became her life:<br />&quot;I looked about me at the land and it was life to my starving spirit. I felt the earth beneath my feet and wept for happiness.&quot; (188)<br />So much was the book about Rukmani. The one character that stood out to me was Selvam, one of her younger son who flinched and quailed at the firecracker and used the money intended for firecracker to buy a confection cane. As wealth lured all his elder brothers away, he stayed behind and took care of his family, shouldered the household responsibilities while assisting in the village hospital. <br />Nectar in a Sieve is a book that will make you lump in the throat. The writing is painfully eloquent, taut, and cut-to-the-root. The living conditions, life struggles, poverty, fragility and abasement of life depicted are beyond imaginations to those who live in the first world and have never stretch a single meal portion to three meals. Everyday was a life-and-death situation. 4.2 stars.	2003-07-08
US	51341166	RBPBUQNALJ6F5	0399148663	928973909	Fragrant Harbor	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Hong Kong: outward resplendency and underlying ignominy	John Lanchester's Fragrant Harbor adopts more complexity and formality in comparison to his two previous novels, the painfully humorous and opinionated The Debt to Pleasure and the satirical Mr. Philips. Readers who are familiar with the history of the former British colony will discern Fragrant Harbor a novel set against the historical backdrop of Hong Kong in the twentieth century (1935-1997).<br />Tom Stewart, the younger son of an inn owner in England, was born with a visceral desire to travel and China had always caught his imagination. In 1935, at the age of 22, he bought a ticket on the Darjeeling in a six-week voyage to Hong Kong via Marseilles, the Mediteranean, Suez Canal and Bombay. As the ship rounded a wide corner onto the Thames, the England shore receded and never did Stewart expect his rash decision to leave the country would alter the course of his life forever.<br />The arrival to the ship of two Catholic missionaries, Sister Benedicta and Sister Maria, caused an upheaval. When Sister Benedicta and a businessman Marler fell out on each other in a heated debate over the Catholic Church spreading superstition and ignorance, Stewart became a pawn of a wager. The wager stipulated that Sister Maria, a native of Fujian Province, could teach a Stewart wholly ignorant of the Chinese language and raised him to a functional standard in a matter of weeks.<br />Little did Stewart and Sister Maria know that the wager turned into a cherished friendship and proved its veracity when the two parted to their separate ways. Sister Maria diligently pursued her mission works in Mainland China while Stewart helped Masterson run The Empire Hotel in Hong Kong. Stewart's enduring of the changes of political environments, the Japanese occupation in early 1940s, and Mao's foundation of the People's Republic in 1949 burgeoned in him a close tie to the city.<br />In spite of Stewart's bittersweet reminiscence of his 60 years of life in the colony, he had painted an authentic picture of Hong Kong, with dashing verisimilitude, through the weathered gale of political shifts, the rampant economic shoot-up, and the augmenting corruption and crime. The magnitude with which he captured the geographical details and the vivid vignettes of Hong Kongers' lives could only be accessible to natives. Stewart expressed his complaisant affection for Hong Kong:<br />\\"You get past a certain point in life and you've accumulated a history in a place and so that's where you're from. Most of my memories and all my friends are here.\\" (223)<br />I am a native of Hong Kong who never had the opportunity to live through the times Stewart had experienced. Growing up during the mid 1970s into the 1980s, when the fate of Hong Kong was put on the global spotlights, China prepared to take over the sovereignty in its glorious return to the embrace of motherland. Stewart had evoked the amazing fact that after the Bruits had reigned over 150 years, the English language (though taught in school and widely spoken) minimally penetrated the city. The Bruits had left behind its inveterate landmarks and traditions but only marginally affected the lives of average Hong Kongers.<br />The first part of the book, what seems to be some outrageous digression about a British journalist Dawn Stone's arriving at the colony in 1995, is to my minimal interest of the novel. While she did not contribute to the story until the very end, Lanchester has deftly employed her character to testify the near-snobbish lifestyle of modern Hong Kong cliques (the obsession of money, the swanking of wealth and expensive clothes, and the contention for success at the expense of stepping down others).<br />Tom Stewart reminded me the beguiling everyday, anecdotal life of Hong Kongers. He was taken by surprise by the ways in which he found the city a surprise. The exotic elements were what he expected and aggravated his desire to loosen the shackles of England. Like any foreign newcomers, he felt the need toconform and to fit in was crushing. Correspondences with Sister Maria through numerous letters had helped him adjust to the hustle-bustle. Inculcation of the Chinese language and literature gave him a lift in expanding his hotel business. <br />If one thing with which Stewart had nailed the place to the root, it would be the language and its speakers. Stewart deemed Cantonese (my native language) as one of the best languages for swearing because it was completely in harmony with the Cantonese characters (the bluntness, directness, money-mindedness, clannishness, worldliness, materialism, and argumentativeness). It truly hit home!<br />I unreservedly recommend this book to readers who want to explore the history and lives of Hong Kong in the twentieth century. Stewart's description of the city mirrored that to my grandfather. John Lanchester might have inadvertently mistaken Deep Water Bay for Repulse Bay, Magazine Gap Road for Old Peak Road, he truly knows the city where he spends a substantial amount of his life. He has presented his readers an unbiased view of Hong Kong: abound with its outward resplendency and underlying ignominy.  After all Fragrant Harbor is a work of fiction, thoroughly and thoughtfully written. 4.2 stars.	2003-07-06
US	51341166	R1PCIYCHVG2TUC	0674948602	579406310	We Are What We Eat: Ethnic Food and the Making of Americans	Books	2	9	16	N	N	It doesn't paint a complete picture	I picked up this book in hope of mitigating the intensity of reading back-to-back some very tenacious literature and historical fiction. It was a miscalculation. We Are What We Eat, though interesting in the premise, is nothing but a harangue of facts and data. Some cheese were 80 cents to $1.60 a pound. Some 60,000 people in the industry in 1910 produced some 50 million gallons of wine in California. Nationwide, consumers of inexpensive meals spend $29 million in small mom-and-pop restaurants and $23 billion in fast food chains. New Yorkers tend to patronize less on fast food because family values are emphasized more. The facts go on and on.<br />The book is a tantalizing (well, it really tires) treatise that examines the evolution and identity of our nation through the ethnically diverse food/cuisines Americans intake from colonial periods to the present.  The account begins with the \\"first Americans\\", namely the first peoples on the continent: the Native Americans, European-Americans, and African Americans. The subgroups of the European Americans formed some of the major food manufacturers and grocery chains that influentially set the so-called American eating-habits (often too ashamed to be known as American cuisine). From there, the book is a tale of mixing and borrowing and intermingling within the recipes and tastes of different cultural groups, between entrepreneurship and connoisseurship. <br />The book certainly aims higher than it actually manages. While the author substantially focuses on the origins and thus the fortunes of the enterprising immigrant cooks and grocers, the book fails to discuss and pinpoint the crossing between food and culture. Such deficiency is especially salient in the chapter titled \\"Nouvelle Creole\\", in which the Asian influence of dining was mentioned in passing over two pages. The establishment of Benihana (which I do not consider an authentic Japanese restaurant) was mentioned and nothing specific from Chinese cooking was discussed at all. And what about Malaysian cuisine that shaped the dining industry in New York? And the Puerto Rican?<br />The bottomline of the book is really the acceptance or rejection of ethnic foods in America, instead of an objective, fine-balanced, and compendious account on the impact food has on the American culture. While the book discusses in gush details some of the major (especially the well-known ones from the East Coast) food products and brand names that shape the national identity, it completely ignores the minority cuisines and tastes. 2.5 stars.	2003-07-05
US	51341166	R2IQ2C5XNXSU4G	0060928417	387056977	Slowness: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A book that somehow loses its bearing....	The gist of the Slowness story can be told in maybe a couple chapters. Most of the content has nothing to do directly with the main plot, but outrageous digression and meditation on the philosophy of pleasure. It's a meditation of pleasure, or rather, the endangerment of pleasure of slowness. The entire book circuits around the question Milan Kundera addresses toward the very beginning: what happens to the pleasure of slowness? Immediately one can conceive the substantial emphasis, connotation, implications, and gestures on sexual (carnal, bodily, physical) pleasure.<br />Two stories run parallel over a vast interval of time at an identical location, some chateau in Prague. In late 18th century, Madame de T. summoned a young nobleman to her chateau as a screen of her secret lover Marquis from her husband. Madame de T. seduced the young man and lasciviously obliged him an evening of ecstatic explosion. In the same chateau 200 years later, a man named Vincent, at an entomology conference, lost the beautiful Julie after some eye-bulging sex by the pool at the chateau and whereupon suffered the ridicule of his peers.<br />Reading this book is so much like witnessing some farce into which one renders helpless to stick his oars. A man Berck, an avid practitioner of \\"dancer politics\\" (seeking glory but not power, always centering on stage and keeping others off-stage), made a fool of himself pretending to kiss some AIDS patient to paint the image of a well-wisher. Berck then went off to Somalia and greeted the famished children not through a surge of vanity but because he felt obliged to make up for a botched dance step. Then entered some Czech entomologist who, by merely aloud what he thought, was deprived of the very meaning of his life. He was to give a speech of his research at the conference. But instead he found Vincent and Julie making out by the pool. Another woman Immaculata decided to jilt her cameraman lover, walked out the hotel room where they had had sex (tobe more precisely, a sequence of parading anger, forcing submission, the actual sex, falling over, throwing stuffs around, pulling a tantrum, feigning fear, sex again and so on...), stormed through the pool and realized with utter clarity the snare closing around her: her pursuer behind and the water ahead. She jumped into the pool like an awkward diver pricked with cramping limbs.<br />I kept asking myself the same question during the one-sitting read: what's the point of all these people and sex talk? Surely Kundera had achieved what he had anticipated-to slow down the story of the two couples and stuff in outrageous digression and meditation of sexual politics. But I think he had gone too far in trying to establishment some connection with Kissinger and this journalist woman who had a morbid crush on him and wrote about her crush in a book. <br />If this book tries to convey a point or some life lesson, it's hedonism. Pleasure cannot be experienced to the full unless it slowly works the way up to climax. It aims (maybe a little too high) at the secret bond between slowness and memory, about how speed infringes slowness and happiness. To me it's a book that somehow loses its bearing. Pass it if you have better books to read. 3.0 stars. (2.0 stars for the content but I have to give an extra star for the cunning, painfully humorous prose!)	2003-07-01
US	51341166	R1PKTTP1GTT3P	0060002093	122576315	Ignorance: A Novel	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Contemplation of Life	Ignorance is a novel that exposes the weakness and fallibility of our memory. Milan Kundera evokes the question to what extent our poor memory renders us ignorant. <br />Irena and Josef chanced to encounter one another at Paris airport while returning to their homeland, which they had pertinaciously abandoned twenty years ago during the Russian invasion. Both of them chose to be unlawful exiles with whom families dare not to keep in contact. Irena, then pregnant with her second child, fled with her husband Martin to Paris and soon led a poverty-stricken life as a widow until she became Gustaf's mistress. Irena instantly recognized Josef at the first sight of him: they had met at a friend's party in Prague some 20 years ago. She had regretted parting with him after the party and was stricken with a wound that never healed.<br />Josef fled the country when he was a medical student in veterinary medicine. Unlike his brother who succumbed to the Communist reign and denied his own convictions to demonstrate support, Josef could not bear to see his country enslaved and humiliated. He settled down in Copenhagen, got married, became a vet. Not a day passed without Josef's reminiscing his deceased wife. He loved her even more, in a melancholy and memorial way, and respected all her customs, such as taking care every chair, vase, and lamp was where she had liked it.<br />While our protagonists sighed at the drastic changes of their once-familiar homeland and the wiping out of landmarks, a more subtle but inevitable issue emerged. Their rueful recollections and nostalgia caught up with them, in fragments, fear, and regret. However obdurately and diligently they tried to shield off past memories and put off paltry values of the past lives, the pang of regret and sense of loneliness never spared them. Irena always felt emigration was an irreparable mistake she had committed at the age of ignorance. It was out of her own will, freedom, decision and fate. Josef was always seized with the pain and guilt of his sadistic love toward his teenage girlfriend, whom he never sought over after she attempted suicide. <br />This book trims to the bone the inescapable issue of lost time and forgotten memories. Our protagonists were despondent at the fact that their compatriots, after some twenty years of separations, bore no interest in the exiles' lives. Why do sad memories always seem to linger around? Why do we remember this one fragment but not the other bit? Why do we often remember the faces but befuddle with names? In each of us the choice seems to occur mysteriously outside our will and our interests. Far as this book concerns, friends do not always hold the same degree of significance for each other and thus the texture, perspicuity, and depth of recollections disparate. When recollections are not evolved in a recurring manner (i.e. in conversations with friends and family), ignorance reign. <br />The premise of the book is tantalizing and moving though the abrupt (rather unexpected and somewhat lewd) turn of the events and the ending left me fish-mouthed (careful reader will see to the twist). I was left with the impression that the whole thing was a mere illusion. Whatever the case Kundera intended it to be, Ignorance is no less mesmerizing than his best known The Unbearable Lightness of Being. This is the kind of book that does not insatiate you with complex philospohical overtones and mind-boggling prose but at the same time challenges the simple thoughts of life. The book addresses the very simple matter of life--its memory, how we have lived life and how we go about remembering life. 4.0 stars.	2003-06-25
US	51341166	R3EBFD7J29R7SH	0374261903	236149170	Shadow Without a Name: A Novel	Books	5	12	13	N	N	It holds your breath until the end	Life is an ongoing, premeditated chess game and those who live life move like pawns on the chessboard. The chess game that took place in a train at the dawn of World War I in Ignacio Padilla's book, Shadow Without A Name, irreparably changed the lives of at least four men whose identities became warped even after death. The novel cleverly evokes the question of identity and selfhood against the historical backdrop of the darkest period of the twentieth century, as men appropriated names of each other, shielded off past memories and adopted new identities in the hope of a changed, better destiny. It was a time in which the truth became shrouded by lies and the lies adopted as truth. <br />Four men contribute to the narrative, which, in an overlapping interval of time, recounted the sequence of events that spanned decades as well as continents following the chess game in 1916, between Viktor Kretzschmar and Thadeus Dreyer.<br />In 1957, in Buenos Aires, Franz Kretzschmar reminisced his father, Viktor Kretzschmar, who faced Thadeus Dreyer on a chessboard for a life-and-death game. The winner would take Kretzschmar's identity as a railway signalman in Salzburg and the loser would head to the Austro-Hungarian eastern front, which promised death. When Franz's father (the true and only Thadeus Dreyer whose name had been appropriated and incarnated throughout the book) won the game, little did he know the exchange of documents would lend him a warped identity though he saw the deadly wager as a promise of immortality. However he despised trains, Franz's father approached the job with unbounded enthusiasm and not the slightest of his despondency betrayed his imposture until he was found guilty of premeditating a train accident near Salzburg. He wasted away in a sanatorium upon release from jail, rendered unable to recognize his son, let alone Franz's revengeful efforts to restore his father's peace of mind.<br />Richard Schley was a seminarist falsely elevated to priesthoodwho attended to near-death soldiers and gave vespers in 1918. Schley met his childhood friend Jacob Efrussi who changed his name to Thadeus Dreyer, in the time of the pandemonium caused by the Balkans on the Austrian front in 1918. Efrussi (or Dreyer), who had stolen so many names and lived under so many identities, persisted in denying his real name. Another name swap occurred as Efussi agreed to stake his fate on a chess game with Richard Schley, who found Efrussi in the midst of ravages and brought him home from the front.<br />Alikoshka Goliadkin was an orderly of General Thadeus Dreyer during his rise in the Nazi reign. This man was the key to unveil the clandestine relationships between Franz Kretzschmar, Adolf Eichmann and Dreyer. At the time, Dreyer supervised the training of a small legion of impostors (doubles) who would occasionally replace senior party officials or served as decoys in public appearances considered high-risk. Goliadkin was the only man who knew the where about of Dreyer and his impostor team (which was reported to vanish without a trace) when the project fell out of favor with the Nazi. <br />Daniel Sanderson, one of the three heirs of Baron Woyzec Blok-Cissewsky who left an encrypted code in a chess manual that would resolve the whole mystery about the aforementioned men. The baron, took residence in Poland during his late years, turned out to be yet another incarnation of Thadeus Dreyer. The seemingly impregnable encrypted code embedded the secrets of the many failed attempts by Nazi officers opposed to Hitler's policies to destroy the regime from within. As Sanderson investigated the baron's connection with Eichmann, he became alert at the fact that a fourth heir who resided in a Frankfurt sanatorium existed!<br />This book presents a story within stories, twisted and shrouded. At each turn of a page, at each switch of narrator, the book challenges readers with the question: is the man who he says he is? I have to flip back and forth to make sure I do not have the slightest confusion of who is who, though it is sometimes inevitable to fall into the trap of which who I think the man is. Once I get used to all the name swap and appropriation, and the underlying connection or disconnection of all the Dreyer incarnations, the book is a tantalizing, suspenseful, mesmerizing read. The constant changes of identities do not lose the way. It is cleverly written, with finesse and attention to details. It holds your breath to the end. 5.0 stars.	2003-06-25
US	51341166	RX3ZBLLNHLMNR	0312420366	119057404	The Debt to Pleasure: A Novel	Books	4	17	23	N	N	Can fiction prose get as tactile and ebullient as this?	Do you know that word \\"barbecue\\" originates from Haitian \\"barbacado\\" that refers to a rack-frame system leaving off the ground a bed? Do you know that tomatoes, if imminently picked and allowed to ripe during transport, will turn plasticky and insipid? Do you know that the thickness requirement in preserving the juice in barbecued meat is an inch to 3 inches? Have you ever wondered why starch (such as rice) and fruits, and not a glass of iced water, serve to subdue the spiciness of curry? <br />John Lanchester's The Debt of Pleasure not only deftly answers all the above questions but also, in impeccable and painfully beguiling prose, embraces his readers into the world of Tarquin Winot. Strictly speaking, the book, which is nothing more than a scrumptious culinary reflection in thoughtful menus arranged by the seasons, cannot be deemed as a work of fiction if Winot is a real chef. From his menus, which embody different cultures, capture a man's psychology and thus his impulse to order, and witness the come-and-go of dining trends; Winot related the story of his life to the preparations of food. <br />The writing is as insatiating and titillating as the menus. Winot retreated to southern France and reminisced, papered his thoughts on the subject of food that evoked his childhood, his parents, his brother Barthomelow the artist, the beloved maidservant Mary-Theresa, and the home cook Mitthaug. Aroma of a particular dish could graciously tug his memory and coalesce the disparate locations of Winot's upbringing. Woven into his painfully and haughtily opinionated meditations on food was disheartening anecdotes of his family. His brother struggled as an artist who, like other artists in history, never felt adequately attended to for his work and died a tragic death of fungus poisoning. His parents, in a multiplying series of mishaps that primarily involved leaving all the kitchen gas taps on and a full-scale leak from the gas boiler, died in an explosion triggered by turning on a light switch. <br />The lighter side of the book tells of Winot's aspiration to becoming a chef. He attributed such biographical significance to a chance visit to his brother's boarding school in England. The food served was a nightmarish demonstration of culinary banality and a stark confirmation of Captain Ford's quote in 1846 \\"The salad is the glory of every French dinner and the disgrace of most in England.\\" A more humorous side would be Winot's rash denunciation of sweet-and-sour dishes (lupsup, meaning garbage) that dominated the English dining. As a native of Hong Kong, the notion truly hit home as any violent combination such as the sweet-and-sour taste is immediately deemed as inauthentic. <br />Read it as a novel \\"masquerading\\" as a cookbook, as a memoir, as food critics, as secretive cooking knacks, as word of caution (such as the roasting of apple seeds will release toxins), as an indispensable companion to your conventional cookbook, an eccentric philosophical soliloquy of the culinary art. I vouch that anyone who reads this book will find the recipes zestfully flirting with the tastebuds and liberating the senses. Exquisitely written. 4.2 stars.	2003-06-20
US	51341166	R2ZJOG2FYCFB77	0385469012	186496546	Arabian Nights and Days: A Novel	Books	4	42	47	N	N	A world of outward piety and latent corruption	Naguib Mahfouz's Arabian Nights and Days is a bitterly entertaining and compelling read. In medieval age, in some unknown Islamic town, genies pulled a series of escapades that created havoc. The clash between the genies and the townspeople was evocative of inveterate, age-old struggles of virtue, corruption, despotism, injustice, and other practices purged by conscience.<br />Seized by a pang of guilt that pricked his heart, Sultan Shahriyar repented of his atrocious massacre of virgins and other pious, god-fearing people. Shahrzad, daughter of vizier Dandan, sacrificed her happiness and remained with the sultan in order to stem the torrent of blood. <br />Merchant Sanaan al-Gamali had a nightmare in which a genie would otherwise punish him if he refused to kill the governor, who had brought about the genie through black magic and made the genie accomplish purposes not approved by conscience. In a state of delirium and crazed fantasies, Sanaan raped and murdered a girl. When Gamali finally summoned his courage, unsheathed the dagger, aimed at the governor's heart and stabbed with a strength drawn from determination and despair, the genie abandoned Gamali to his own fate.<br />Gamasa al-Bulti, the chief of police, was another man whom the genie chose to be the saving of the quarter from corruption. Gamasa was despondent at the ruin of Gamali's family, which now lived in ignominy. But the chief remained aloof to Gamali's widow for fear of ruining his own position and his standing with the sultan, who regarded the blow directed against his official as being aimed against him personally. The genie confronted Gamasa as one despicable person feeding off ignominy for he protected the elite (who was just as corrupted) by prosecuting the respectable people. In \\"repentance\\", Gamasa launched a lethal blow at the neck of the governor, who gave a horrified scream as his blood spurted like a fountain. Unlike the merchant, Gamasa was spared by the genie and was given a new identity Abdullah the porter who then continued the criminal killing spree. <br />The above tales are just a tasteful sampling of Mahfouz's tour-de-force as a raconteur. Arabian Nights and Days is made up of stories and adventures of 1001 Nights-like characters whose lives Mahfouz deftly and seamlessly woven together and converged at the Caf of the Emirs. The caf was the central hangout spot of town, where the elite met the ordinary, the rich mingled with the poor. It was where Sinbad parted with the town and returned with serendipitous treasures. It was where every father of a virgin daughter felt reassured relieved and rejoiced over the news of sultan's repentance. It was where the whisperings of people regarding Aladdin's innocence originated and eventually reached the sultan's ears.<br />The book does not manifest a plot; rather it drifts along and presents the etched characters and their tantalizing but bitter struggles. I have to employ some patience to scrupulously keep track of the exhaustive cast of characters and their intricate relationships (newly adopted identity, remarriage of widows, merry-go-round-like change/succession of governor and police chief). Underlying the thrilling tales are Mahfouz's persistent philosophical overtones and queries. What is the \\"true path\\" to salvation? To what extent is a person responsible for his wrongdoings? How does one gauge the extent of repentance, if one is persistently pricked by guilt? To what extent does conscience permit wrongdoings, if the wrongdoing is conducted for a good cause? <br />The Islamic town is somehow a satirical miniature of the incorrigible society, a world of outward piety and latent corruption. The acts and conduct of the characters bespeak man's weakness that betrays trust, treats generosity with disdain, and plunges recklessly into debauchery and criminal activities. From stealing, stupid pranks to murder; we see the pitiful fall of one of the most morally righteous man in the book. Does his conscience justify his actions? <br />I am not sure how much I am really absorbing the philosophical message Mahfouz brings about underlying the tale, other than to know I am reading a brilliant satire and a very richly-written novel. Arabian Nights and Days is a delightful departure from Mahfouz's formulaic melancholy works chronicling his times. 4.2 stars.	2003-06-17
US	51341166	R36O6RWO5QWC3U	0385499221	73543922	The Day the Leader Was Killed	Books	4	23	24	N	N	A significant testimony of modern Egyptian history	The Day the Leader Was Killed is a succinct but significant work in contemporary Egypt. Naguib Mahfouz, through his sober and lyrical prose, has skillfully woven one of the darkest political backdrops in Egyptian history into his novel. Sealing off the seventies and reaching the threshold of a new decade, President Anwar al-Sadat implemented the Infitah, an open-door economic policy that would expedite the country forward to modernization. Like many of Mahfouz's works, this story is told in alternating first-person narratives by three characters--Muhtashimi Zayed, a pious, retired family patriarch; his grandson Elwan Fawwaz Muhtashimi; and Elwan's strong-willed, beautiful fiance Randa Sulayman Mubarak. The story builds upon around this middle-class family and through the family's perspective zooms a picture of the social, economic, religious, gender and interpersonal aspects of the larger society in Egypt. For the patriarch, who devoted his whole life to prayers and religious rituals, his life was nothing but loneliness. He was especially despondent that the younger generation drifted from the Koran to whose life made a substantial influence. The old man could not forget &quot;the woes of the world&quot; (25) when he thought of his beloved grandson. Randa, like all her female contemporaries, faced gender challenges and the clash between traditional values and modern ideals.<br />The novelette evokes the assassination of Egyptian president Anwar Sadat on October 6, 1981. Sadat was saluting troops at the annual military parade when a team of assassins began firing weapons and throwing grenades into the reviewing stand. Sadat, along with 20 others was instantly killed in the deadly attack. The underlying cause of the fatal massacre traced back to the Camp David Accords between Israel and Egypt in 1978, which led to a negotiated peace between the two countries in the following year. The historic agreement brought peace to Egypt but no prosperity. The economy still slumped with no trace of a turn-around. Poverty-stricken Muslims and Copts in Egypt rubbed in friction and exploded into some gruesome round of violence in the Cairo slum. This is the very socioeconomic backdrop on which Mahfouz adroitly set his novel. Like the Cairo Trilogy and many of his works, Mahfouz captures and chronicles the most crucial of his own times. 4.0 stars.	2003-06-12
US	51341166	REXED9GZDC0SM	037575895X	155280014	Cicero: The Life and Times of Rome's Greatest Politician	Books	4	17	20	N	N	&quot;Restores Cicero to the patheon of our common past&quot;	Marcus Tullius Cicero (106-43 BC), Roman orator, advocate, politician, philosopher, and an introvert who led the most public of lives. Cicero lived through the stormy era of the Republic and testified the rise, the dictatorship and the assassination of Julius Caesar in addition to seditious movements of those who inherited his political legacy. <br />Drawn from Cicero's letters of correspondence with his friend Atticus and various modern sources, Everitt deftly recreates a vivid chronicle of Cicero's life and restores him to the pantheon of our common past. <br />To help readers understand the political infrastructure of the Roman Republic, Everitt begins with a chapter that explores the fault lines of the Republic that gave rise to all the seditious movements and military melee and thus inevitably led to the decadence. Cicero and his contemporaries helplessly inherited a self-constraining, self-defeating political system that inculcated the virtues of fortitude, justice, and prudence. Such inwardly unsound gesture was implemented to thwart any overmighty citizen seizing power. <br />The very same precautionary measure ironically pushed the Republic to the verge of hostilities and wars. The yearlong co-consulship, the lack of a prosecuting service and the continuous class struggle between the Patricians and People manifested venality, bribery, and collusion among officials.<br />In his portrait of the tenuous political situation, Everitt delineates Cicero as a man who was born and lived at the wrong time, or rather, the cruel times had dragged him along. Not a single day passed did Cicero not to worry about his opponents and those whom he had testified against with his instigation. Cicero thwarted and put down collusion and conspiracies, acted in defense and won acquittal of Roscius convicted of parricide, challenged the dictatorship of Sulla and the decadence of his regime. During his consulship, Cicero pursued the sedition of Catilina and thwarted his attacks on the Senate. Cicero vehemently opposed Julius Caesar and his despotic attempt to form a new Roman government. Even though Caesar took a liking of Cicero and looked up to him, Cicero asserted his preference for Pompey in the First Triumvirate and supported Pompey during Caesar's reign to restore Rome back to republicanism. In the remaining days of Caesar's dictatorship, Cicero remained a thorn to Caesar until his assassination.<br />Everitt's account also leaves readers in awe of Cicero's merits. Cicero had administrative gifts and oratorical skills of a very high order that none of his contemporaries could deploy. In a society where politicians were also expected to be good soldiers, Cicero was preeminently a civilian, a philosopher, a writer (Cicero admitted his physical weakness and nervousness) and this makes his success all the more remarkable. Cicero ceaselessly advertised and spread anti-war sentiment. He devoted his whole life, through his influence as a statesman; to negotiate a republic made of a mixed constitution. Cicero, when his career ended, must be in searing pain as he no longer entertained hopes that the Republic will be restored. Everitt deftly pointed that for the long years Cicero was a bystander in the working of Rome was not due to his lack of talent but a &quot;surplus of principle.&quot; The republic collapsed around his neck as he tried to find more able men to run the government and enacted more efficient laws to keep these men in order. <br />Behind the political success laid Cicero's internal struggles. From Everitt's account, it seems the only people whom Cicero engaged in an emotional bonding were his daughter Tullia and his best friend Atticus. His divorce of Terentia (on the basis of her thoughtlessness and financial mismanagement) and his failed marriage with Publilia brought him nothing but loneliness. When Tullia died from a miscarriage, Cicero was completely devastated and read every book that the Greek philosophers had to say aboutgrief. Atticus recounted his friend's grief as something of a new intensity too raw and too astonishing to be publicized. His rabid disagreement with Quintus, who heaped all the blame of his ill behavior on Cicero and switched to Caesar, pricked his heart. All the unfulfilled dreams led to Cicero's drastic change in personality that he was willing compromise his beliefs to stay in power and to exercise unscrupulous methods to restore the republic. <br />Everitt's book astutely captures the success, struggles, uproars and the spirits of truly the greatest politician of Rome. The book is up to the par of Boissier's Cicero and His Friends and Cowell's Cicero and the Roman Republic. Recommended. 4.5 stars.	2003-06-12
US	51341166	R2PJZCZQQ4IH6X	0375502874	687702711	A Box of Matches: A Novel (Baker, Nicholson)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Provocative & creative,celebrationof life ordinariness	Nicholson Baker's A Box of Matches is a novel that has no plot. It's a creative and provocative book that has to do with nothing but also everything. Emmett is a 44-year-old medical textbook editor who has a wife Claire, two children Phoebe and Henry, a cat and a duck Greta. Now Emmett contemplates an interesting idea. Inspired by Claire who took him to see the first emerging blade of sunrise on New Year's day, he decides to get up very early before dawn, when the sky is still a conceivable blue and pitch-dark, strikes a match and lights a fire and meditates before the kicking off of the day. <br />The book has no plot but hinges on a theme: Emmett wants to know what life is about. Sitting in front of the orange cavern, in a bathrobe, eyes barely lubricated, Emmett thinks. Nothing really compelling about the daily petty anecdotes, the paltry conversations, and the inveterate, perfunctory house chores. What makes the book so compelling is Emmett's fiery zest with which he relays his most ordinary anecdotes.<br />1.The toe-hole in the sock of his foot becomes intolerable at night.<BR>2.The double-flush plunger with a narrow tip comes in rescue to lunge the bathtub drain and clears the clog.<BR>3.Greta, the duck, makes whimpering noise when she pecks at some snail stuck in the bottom of a log.<BR>4.Absent-minded Emmett loses his key, which is later found frozen under a piece of raw meat in the freezer.<BR>5.Hose winder spares the hands from the mulchy things and snail slime attached to the hose when being winded manually.<BR>6.Emmett prefers a soap that is not brain-shriveling with perfumes but heavy with soap material.<BR>7.His toes learn, by trial and error, to arch and lift up from the tub to avoid the impact of collision when the bar of soap slips out of his hand and drops.<BR>8.The most effective method to clean a baking pan that previously holds a casserole is to let it soak overnight, squirt and trail soap in the baked-on atolls and the suds will give away.<BR>9.The fire should be made by feel, feeding slab of junk mails, supermarket circulars, and pieces of pizza box into the slot made by two logs.<BR>10.In an inquisitive state, one should never turn over a cup and see if the Hollerbee chinaware logo is imprinted, and thus sending a gush of hot tea onto the trousers.<BR>11.Men should sit on the toilet for their business in the middle of the night should they have bad aiming.<BR>12.Be careful with cutting apple woods. They could leap up and whack in your face in a nick of second.<br />Of course you will have to join Emmett's early-bird ritual and take joy in his life meditation. The book is graciously divided into 33 short chapters and each chapter represents each of the 33 matches from the box Emmett strikes every morning. He always starts off with \\"Good Morning, it's _:__am\\" and he would rebuke himself for getting up late in a couple mornings. <br />The amazing thing about this book is however thorough the observations and wise the subjects Emmett observes, the narrative always confines in his home, in front of the fireplace and moves no further than the backyard where Greta the duck takes residence in a doghouse. This is a celebration of life ordinariness. The writing is daft, thoughtful and crisp. Beautifully written. 4.1 stars.	2003-06-02
US	51341166	R3RU9ITCKRDSE	0156010593	77621968	All the Names	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Still a good read though not up to par of Blindness	Senhor Jos's life is nothing but ordinary: in an unnamed city he works as a lowly clerk for the Central Registry of Births, Marriages and Death where the living and dead permanently share the same shelf in a single archive. In his early fifties, Jos has a laudable modesty of those who do not go around complaining about the voluminous workload befallen him. He attempts his work sedulously, with great precision and sense of responsibility, despite his suffering from vertigo caused by a fear of height when he climbs the ladder to access files on ceiling-to-floor shelves.<br />Senhor Jos finds solace in collecting news clippings of the country's famous, notorious and elite. One night, seized by an impulse and despondence over the inadequacy of his collection, Jos scuttles across the threshold of the communicating door that parts his lodging from the Registry and pilfers from the file drawer five precious records cards of the famous people. No sooner has he finished copying carefully and returned the cards to their rightful places than he spots the extra card, the unwanted one that belongs to an unknown, ordinary woman. Until then Jos's tepid and quiet life is no longer the same as he becomes morbidly obsessed with this unknown woman. <br />What follows is our protagonist's exhaustive (and somehow preposterous) quest for the unknown woman through the clues that trail behind from the record cards: her most recent address, her last records from school, her neighbor from 33 years ago, and her parents. His anxiety and curiosity for this unknown woman tightens the grip to the point he doesn't feel right to resign himself. The obsession of the search in no time takes its toll. It inevitably manifests in mistakes at work, in lack of attention, in wane of precision, in sudden bouts of drowsiness during the day. The Registrar deems such poor standard of work can only be justified by some grave illness. Little does the Registrar know that Jos's irrepressible tremblingis not the result of illness but panic, as he has committed an offense against the ethics of the Registry-infringement of privacy and forgery of credentials. <br />I'll most certainly leave the readers to learn the outcome of Jos's investigation. One common theme has surfaced in this novel. Like Saramago's other books such as Blindness, The Stone Raft and The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis, the notion of loneliness (isolation vs. connection) prevails and governs the shaping of Saramago's characters and the actions they take. Jos is a loner who only takes interest in people's birth certificate. Those whom he encounters and indebted upon, especially the woman who lives on the ground floor, suffers from loneliness as she purposely engages in a circuitous conversation with Jos since she has nobody to talk to. Jos's peers at work, who treats him with scornful commiseration, as they are jealous at the Registrar's unmerited favoritism toward Jos upon his recovery from illness, are lonely as well. <br />A sound quote from the book has always resonated in my mind, \\"I don't believe one can show greater respect than to weep for a stranger.\\" (205) All The Names evokes the moment of recognition in the lives of the living and dead. Through the search for this woman to whom Jos has neither a personal or sentimental attachment, Saramago evokes in us the unbeatable and redemptive power of compassion, something that surpasses life and death and the vast interval of time that separates us from the most remote dead. <br />Saramago's writing is thought provoking as usual, richly marinated with philosophical overtones such as \\"[registry] routine presupposes unconscious certainty\\" and \\"we do not make decisions, decisions make us.\\" (29) Throughout the book Jos engages in some importunate inner fantasy dialogues as well as conversation with the plaster ceiling. This book is not to be taken lightly. The richness and obscurity of the prose forbid you to rush through it but tolet it seep through slowly. The shift in prose styling (from more taut, crisp and direct prose to a slightly more sating prose with cumbersome sentences) from Blindness and The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis makes All The Names a more difficult, arduous read. The embedded paragraphs and the omission of punctuation are signatures of Saramago that require readers to practice some patience. The premise of the story is still tantalizing but not quite up to par to the aforementioned titles. 4.2 stars.	2003-06-01
US	51341166	R8QDSOCPZBN82	0802116388	101982806	Goodbye Tsugumi	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Subtle,fine-tuned,beguiling,bittersweet and melancholy	Goodbye Tsugumi, originally published in Japanese under the title Tsugumi in 1989, is a charming novelette about bratty girl Tsugumi who lives in a seaside town. Maria Shirakawa, Tsugumi's cousin, is the narrator. She reminisces her childhood when she and her mother lived in Yamamoto Inn owned by her aunt and uncle. Maria was the daughter of an unmarried woman (it was considered a shame to the name of a family in Asian culture). Maria grew up with her two cousins Tsugumi and Yoko. Through a prank Tsugumi played on her, Maria became very close to her cruel and foul-mouthed cousin, to whom everyone in the family spoiled and relented due to some unknown illness that could take her life at any moment. <br />The actual story begins when Maria, who attends university in Tokyo, goes back to visit the seaside town in note of the last summer of the inn before its imminent closure. Through Maria's eyes and reminiscence we see a different Tsugumi, someone who if not in a fits of spleen and cruelty can love and embrace those around her. A dogfight on the embankment chances Tsugumi's encounter with Kyoichi, son of a hotel owner. Together they weave a bittersweet and ephemeral love tale. It is through her capacity of love and the blessing of the relationship that keep Tsugumi alive though she lapses into illness occasionally. <br />&quot;On rainy days like this both the past and future dissolve quietly into the air and hover there.&quot;<br />&quot;Nighttime turns people into friends in next to no time.&quot;<br />Yoshimoto's prose is subtle, fine-tuned, and beguiling. She shrewdly employs beautiful skeins of words that evoke the peaceful, charming, and yet melancholy atmosphere for her backdrop. Yoshimoto achieves a fine balance between a carefully etched, seemingly unlikable character to which readers will have sympathy and like. Not until the end would the readers fully appreciate the impact Tsugumi has made and the mark she has left in Maria and others' lives. <br />Maybe it's the cultural difference or language barrier, the English translation, however excellent and thorough, inevitably (as is usual case for translated literature) loses some vernacular essence and connotation. This subtlety, however, should not undermine the pleasant reading experience Yoshimoto has to offer. 4.0 stars.	2003-05-27
US	51341166	R37YBIJISBQT6C	0156007754	787923440	Blindness (Harvest Book)	Books	5	28	32	N	N	Compelling and pricking, push to the edge of human tolerance	Blindness is Jos Saramago's compelling novel of humanity under siege. White blindness created mayhem that relentlessly befalls the entire city and its inhabitants within just a matter of hours. In a bustling intersection, a man sitting in his car waiting for the lights suddenly turns blind-a sea of impermeable and luminous milkiness instead of the plunging darkness one usually expects. A \\"Good Samaritan\\" pedestrian offers to park his car for him (and steals it later) and takes him home. The thief then receives his comeuppance and is struck blind. The wife of the first blind man takes him to the ophthalmologist on a cab. Within a day, the cab driver, the ophthalmologist, the patients at the eye clinic and those whom the first blind man comes in contact with turn blind.<br />The government responds to this unprecedented outbreak by sending the blind to a desolated mental asylum for quarantine. Under stern surveillance of soldiers, the internees have to abide by the regulations that push them to the edge of humanity-bury the dead among them, maintain strict isolation from the soldiers who bring in food thrice a say, remain indoor as any attempt to escape or any sign of a seditious movement will result in death. The ophthalmologist's wife seems to be the only one who has not succumbed to blindness. She becomes the eye of those who lost their eyesight. She becomes the one in whom the inmates find solace, comfort and encouragement that spur them on to living in the midst of great distress, pain, and anguish.<br />The book gets very difficult emotionally (in fact disturbing) as the mental asylum gets overcrowded and soldiers, who are seized by this formidable terror, overreacted and started opening fire at the inmates. While the army regrets having been forced to repress with weapons, the soldiers know that the commander seek to resolve the outbreak by physically wiping out the lot of the inmates. And the army has the effrontery to proclaim firing as an act for which thearmy is neither directly nor indirectly to blame. As food rations come sporadically and becomes meager, a group of blind hoodlums rob their fellow inmates of valuables in exchange for food. <br />At one point I am retching and completely grossed out. The quarantine system irreversibly deteriorates and collapses with it the hygiene and medications needed to treat diseases (as some inmates are stricken by influenza). Toilets clog and back-flush. Excrements pile and lay strewn on hallways. Smelling the fetid smell that comes from the lavatories in gusts makes the doctor's wife want to throw up. Her courage, which before has been so resolute, begins to crumble.<br />The novel cunningly and candidly exposes how frail human society can be. The entire banking system collapses, the traffic thwarted, the streets are strewn with corpses, the dogs tear off flesh from corpses... I put down the book and ask myself: how could human dignity be debased as such? Isn't it true that dignity has no price and life loses all meaning when one starts to make small concessions? Yet it sheds a ray of hope that one person's perseverance can make a difference. <br />Readers will find nameless characters in this novel (the first blind man, the first blind man's wife, the doctor, the doctor's wife, the thief, the girl with dark glasses, the boy with a squint, the old man with a black eye patch). The notion of name is not important in the book as the characters succumb to their blindness. All that remains are the voices and the memories of the past with which each person makes of his identity. I have to say that even they are nameless, they are not compromised in their depiction but are very etched and real characters. I think blindness forces the characters to come in grip with their fear, weakness, shame and demons that enslave them before they are stripped of eyesight. <br />Those who are not familiar with Jos Saramago's style might wish to practice a little patience with his embedded paragraphs and dialogues that are stripped of any punctuation marks. The prose can go on for pages without a break. In spite of the somehow difficult format, it constructs a sense of panic and tension as one read. It is for the very reason that this book is neither a quick read nor a page-turner. On a surface level, Blindness is a compelling tale of an unprecedented outbreak. In the core of the book stores a candid, relentless, but transcendental quintessence of humanity. 5.0 stars.	2003-05-26
US	51341166	R2ZL9Q5EPD9HTP	0679755128	396233568	Ghosts	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Uneventual,ominous,vaguely menacing;extremely lyrical	Little do people know that Ghosts (1993) is the second installment of John Banville's Freddie Montgomery trilogy. The Book of Evidence (1989) begins the sequence, which consists of Freddie's grim and gruesome confession of the brutal murder of a maidservant who interrupted his escapade of stealing a painting. Serving ten years in jail, the ex-con came to a secluded island to accommodate life and live in solitude. Professor Kreutzner, an eminent historian, was the world's most prestigious authority on the painter Vaublin, whose works were abound with strange and eerily pleasing asymmetry of misplaced figures. The paintings generated inevitably over and above it an air of mystery of what it was that happened. Along with the sulky butler and assistant Licht, who cooked and typed up manuscripts, Freddie assisted the professor in his manuscripts. The work represented for Freddie the last outpost at the border of his life.<br />Readers who haven't read The Book of Evidence will find the narrator and the narrative ambiguous, surreptitious, and turbid. Not only did Freddie incessantly recount on events that led to his imprisonment, he delved on philosophical issues like the redemption and the accommodation of self and the conscience. Out of guilt for his crime, the narrator professed this many-world theory that a multiplicity of worlds existed in a mirrored regression in which the dead were not dead. The notion of dreams recurred throughout the narrative and thrusted the main plot. Sometimes it was hard to tell whether he was recalling some riotous tumble of events in his dreams or simply telling the truth. Until the narrator officially identified him as the man who stole the painting he was fatally obsessed with, I had an idea that he, the narrator, was a ghost hovering over the professor's house and spying on its inhabitants as well as the unexpected castaways.<br />The plot is simple-it is nothing short of an account of a day in the island when a group of strangers boarded on a chartered boat stuck fast on the sandbank and ran ashore. The story slowly and mysteriously unraveled when the professor, taciturn and somewhat disgruntled by the intrusion, took the seven castaways in while they rested and waited for the skipper. Three of the castaways were kids (Pound, Hatch, and Alice). The adults were their sulky caretaker Sophie who was a photographer, dapper old Cooke, elegant Flora, and the leering Felix who claimed to know the professor. <br />The ominous and vaguely menacing mood persisted though the castaways found comfort and solitude in their transient stay on the island. Something about Flora and the room where stayed in (previously occupied by the narrator who hid from the castaways at their first arrival) always haunted me and tucked my mind. Flora threw herself in dreams and she woke from which feeling shivery and damp. What did she have to do with the Pierrot figures that gracefully drifted in ambiguous landscapes? <br />By the time I was a little less than halfway through the book, I realized nothing much would happen (as far as what would happen to the castaways) except for more haunting, lyrical, and imaginary prose that required readers to practice patience of a connoisseur. What the narrator said might be real or illusions, but the inclusion of a single chapter on Vaublin the painter toward the end drove the book to a tantalizing climax-and I will leave that that pleasure to the readers, of course. The painting (and Freddie's scholarly interest in it) would seamlessly sew all the threads together and the realization that it brought would only haunt the readers even more. <br />Ghosts is so much more engrossing than its predecessor in the series. While The Book of Evidence portrayed Freddie like Humbert Humbert in Nabokov's Lolita-the morbid sensation and the insouciance, in Ghosts Banville tells a tale through Freddie and some of his allusions that actually might have become real. His presence in the house, though hidden from the castaways, were nothing short of immanent. It is through his perspective just so we know about the professor's secret scheme of painting and his not liking Felix for the same reason. 4.7 stars.	2003-05-23
US	51341166	R3T298G3QFHJPE	0375727132	750223073	The Dive From Clausen's Pier: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Strong start turns soap-opera-fluff; dazzling prose though	I don't want to sound like the blurb. But...how much do we owe the people who love us? Where do we draw the line between sacrifice and selfishness? These are the entangling issues that baffled Carrie Bell, our protagonist in Ann Packer's debut novel The Dive from the Clausen's Pier. <br />Carrie Bell was born and bred in Wisconsin in all her 23 years. Life seemed to have treated her well-blessed her with her high school sweetheart Mike, to whom she had engaged. To her family and many of her friends in town, what was deemed as the perfect relationship was prone to some low-lying tension, at least to Carrie. Her love for Mike had waned and the love spell was no longer there. While Carrie contemplated at the most possible euphemistic way to presage her fianc the end of their relationship, Mike dived off from Clausen's Pier into the shallows and broke his neck on Memorial Day holiday. She decided to stay and looked after Mike out of guilt and obligation though she was on the verge of leaving Wisconsin. At the end of summer, Carrie was seized with a surge of excitement and left for New York in search of the life she riveted. <br />This is the point where the flaw comes in. I understand how much Carrie was going through-with the pressure, the expectation (from both her family and Mike's parents), the fed-up suffocating life that she tired of. But why would she all a sudden throw herself into the open arms of Kilroy, who lived in midtown New York? Wouldn't that make her more guilty? This just didn't make sense to me and was not at all realistic (maybe it was reasonable by soap opera standard). The most consternated was yet to come when she threw herself into an affair with this older man. I knew she was seized with a pang of regret, guilt, fear, and indecisiveness. But what was the point of such concupiscence? Was she using this man to embark on a fashion design career? Beat me. Even after she left home, she deliberately allowed others make decisions for her-it really struck me that Carrie could not follow her heart and take her stand. <br />The prose is dazzling and eloquent in spite of the many flaws (of the plot) that blemishes the book. This flaw is caused by the underdevelopment of Carrie Bell's character. She somehow left the readers hanging. If I have to rate this book on the sole basis of writing, it will be at least 4 stars. The unrealistic scenes and unreasonable (questionable) turns inevitably ruin the rating. Honestly, when I got to the point where Carrie made the jaunt to New York and hooked up with the older man, I just skimmed through the rest of the book for the ending (or her comeuppance). I didn't care or how she reached the end because the book was a total letdown. It was especially disappointing after all the hype and rave of the book that welled up such high anticipation and all I got was some soap-opera-like type of fluff. 3.0 stars.	2003-05-19
US	51341166	R2ZVOS4SMQRN0Z	0786886625	818919880	Spilling Clarence	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Tantalizing first novel, with rich but not sating narrative	Spilling Clarence, what an interesting yet ambiguous book title. Only when I picked it up and riffled it did I realize the premise of the book was way more interesting than the title might have suggested. <br />Clarence was the name of the town where Anne Ursu's story unravels. The town is home of a pharmaceutical company which prides itself with the memory retrieval pill Deletrium. An explosion of the company's manufacturing plant not only disturbed the hush of the town but sent an immeasurable waft of memory-provoking gas throughout town. While the plant assured the chemical spill of Deletrium was not toxic; the medical substance did trigger brain receptors and unleash memories that were repressed in the brain. The inevitable outcome was a retrieval of memories, pleasant and painful, caught up with townspeople who had been exposed to the vapor. <br />Bennie, a psychology professor, was among those who in the least appreciated the chemical as it brought back painful memories of his deceased wife Lizzie. Bennie is a single-father who raised 9-years-old Sophie. Bennie's mother, Madeline, who lived in a retirement home, recounted her stricken years as a mother and widow. Susannah, an aide at the retirement home and took care of Madeline, also got her share of grieving reminiscence about her mother who suffered from mental illness. Her fiance Todd was a student at a local college working toward his degree. While the book mainly focused on the three aforementioned characters, Ursu's rich but not sating narrative touched on many other townspeople and their pasts. Even the paltry characters were etched.<br />The book deals with grievances of the pasts and how diligently people tried to put behind the painful loss. As intriguing as it may be, the book also brought to surface the nature of loneliness. It seemed to me that the troubled past, the bitterness, the sadness had imposed such formidable hurdle in the characters that they couldn't break away from their loneliness. <br />I want to remind fellow readers that this book is quite promising as Anne Ursu's debut novel. While Ursu doesn't play around with winding skeins of words that unspool and render elegantly like some of the most acclaimed prose stylists of our time; her writing is taut, crisp, and clear. She bears the tour de force to take her readers back and forth in time to make reference to reminiscence and to weave together various incidences in the lives of her characters. This is done somehow seamlessly and not obscurely. <br />Spilling Clarence is a relatively short book. It would be a perfect choice for a summer read though parts of it (the reminiscence) can be very depressing. I read it out of the curiosity for its unique and tantalizing premise and slipped it in between my arduous reading projects for a breath of fresh air. 3.8 stars.	2003-05-17
US	51341166	RJNO7LZM25O7D	0375725237	182164322	The Book of Evidence	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A dreamy soliloquy of a murderer who lost sense of time	The Book of Evidence is an ex-scientist's confession of his gruesome but motiveless murder. Thirty-eight-year-old Freddie Montgomery returned to Ireland (from some Mediterranean island) hoping to solicit funds to pay off his debts. When his mother told him that she had got rid of the pictures his deceased father left behind, Freddie paid a visit to the Behrens who might have bought the pictures from his mother. At Behrens' Whitewater House, Freddie, with a ball of twine and a roll of wrapping paper, stole a painting that for him had become an obsession-Portrait of a Woman with Gloves. Never would Freddie expect what started as a casual escapade ended up in a gruesome homicide when a maid caught him red-handed. <br />John Banville bears the tour de force of storytelling that evokes Dostoyevsky. Freddie Montgomery showed no remorse for his crime, unlike Raskolnikov (the protagonist of Crime and Punishment), he had no motive to kill. But when he could go back in time, Freddie would still choose to kill simply because he had no choice. Freddie left marks of careful premeditation of his stealing but not murder. Banville intermingled the events leading to the atrocious act with Freddie's dreams, dreams that were not some tumble of events but states of feelings, moods, pangs, and emotions. Freddie somehow lost track of the perception of time-so much so that somehow time was warped. Places (like he reminisced on his Berkeley days), people (how he met Daphne through her roommate), and events (annecdotes of his father and childhood) became like movie stills so isolated that he had no way to tell if they could be real. <br />The inebriating prose reminds me of Nabokov (especially Lolita). Freddie simply indulged in a hazy, disheartening, and morbid sensation. The prose was full of his gripes-about his distaste for the world, resentment toward his mother, disdain for the attorney (...a life spent poking in the crevices of other people's nasty little tragedies...p.73). At one point he felt he had committed the murder a long time ago. The prose exerted a mounting sense of panic and unease that infect the readers. 4.1 stars.	2003-05-15
US	51341166	R3P38NH3B51ERW	039914983X	267204793	The Spinning Man	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Mind-boggling mystery	What will you do if you're allegedly accused of murder that you never committed? How will you defend yourself if you meet all the coincidences (though the chance is infinitesimal)? This is the case for the hapless protagonist in The Spinning Man.<br />Evan Birch is a philosophy professor at Pearse College who had remained in tenure after the department downsized its faculty. One day a police officer pulled him over and handcuffed him for his alleged kidnapping 16-year-old high school junior Joyce Bonner. Birch's ten-year-old twin boys witness their father's humiliating arrest, making the strange episode more poignant. <br />All the evidence pointed against the professor who thrice coincided with Bonner, a cheerleader from a local high school who worked at the information booth of the park. An anonymous informant identified Birch's presence at the park on the day within an hour of Bonner's disappearance. The first two letters of the Jetta's license plate matched those recalled by the informant. A scrutiny of Birch's impounded Jetta produced a lipstick that belonged to the victim. In spite of Birch's firm denial of acquaintance with the missing girl, he recounted giving ride to a few teenagers after the summer camp at the college. So was it really a coincidence or Birch's punctilious lie?<br />Fear, tension, and suspense slowly welled up when Birch's wife Ellen began to suspect her husband. The Birch kept getting mysterious crank calls and Evan received electronic threats that howled him to admit the crime. The boys thought their father was acting weird and sneaked into the park to search for the missing victim. Everybody on campus and in town looked at him as though he was the culprit. Well was he? <br />The Spinning Man is a page-turner that grips you from beginning to the end when the truth manifests. Every page deposits into readers a bit more tension and fear. The philosophical aspect in the professor's diction only made the detective construe his words inaccurately. The book can be so gripping that even a single word being said, a gesture, a facial expression, a nuance, and even the use of verb tense can either redeem or doom the professor. The success of the book lies in the fact that one minute you will sympathize with the professor and take side with him but the next minute you are positive he is the murderer. Pages fly once you open this book! Great weekend or summer read. 4.2 stars.	2003-05-13
US	51341166	R4HQSSPRS34S3	0679735879	628163864	The Unconsoled	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Crafted writing, surrealistic	Disclaimer: I can vouch you will like The Unconsoled even more if you like When We Were Orphans. While Kazuo Ishiguro's latest release has weathered a gale of bashing reviews, The Unconsoled, released in 1995, seemed somehow overlooked by readers. If you do not like \\"When We Were Orphans\\", please do the author a favor and don't even touch the book, let alone making bashing comments on it. This book can be very frustrating.<br />Keep this question in mind: Who is (are) unconsoled?<br />In spite of the many layers and implications, the plot is delightfully straightforward and simple. Mr. Ryder (the protagonist and narrator), a world-renowned pianist, arrived in some European city he could not identify to give a performance he simply failed to recall agreeing to give. What followed was a finely tuned narrative that punctiliously chronicled Mr. Ryder's three eventful (but not necessarily productive) days in town. Upon his arrival at the hotel, the pianist encountered a diverse cast of townspeople who overwhelmed him with their inexplicable knowledge and inexorable expectations of him. Only when he out of politeness engaged in paltry conversations with them one by one did Ryder find himself stuck in their lives and their problems. <br />Gustav was a respectable porter who determined to implement some personal measure in order to improve the overall image of porters in town. The old man asked Ryder to have a little word with his sulky daughter Sophie who had not spoken to him for years. Her son Boris was portrayed as though he was a lonely orphan (I wonder why?) who muttered to himself. The pianist then stumbled on to Hoffman, the hotel manager whose wife Christine had scrupulously kept a scrapbook full of Ryder's cuttings, even those that mentioned the pianist in passing. Stephen, Hoffman's 23-year-old son who always had such low esteem and thought his mediocre talent had let down his parents, asked Ryder to comment on his piano rehearsal for the big night opening recital. Hoffman himself constantly dreaded his marriage that turned cold and all that left behind was underlying tension. Brodsky, an ex-orchestra conductor, sought to rebuild his fame and reconcile with Miss Collins after being \\"drunken\\" for 20 years. The town saw its own crisis in cultural degradation as though Ryder was the only possible rescue. ... ...<br />This book is meant to be humorous though the title might have suggested otherwise. Each of the characters, including Ryder, could recount dozens of sad incidences-how loneliness had blighted lives, how families despaired at the realization that they had taken happiness for granted. The town and its people (merely strangers really) ludicrously demanded more and more out of Ryder who hardly had a good sleep. At one point Ryder threatened to live the town at once and cancelled his speech and recital. It's hilarious that Ryder lost control over his schedule whenever he brushed shoulders with someone who would mutter their problems. <br />Landscape and time are key in the novel. About a quarter into the book one would encounter rapid swerve of landscape (this can be annoying and confusing at first). Ryder might one-minute walk into the hotel atrium but quickly found him in a path that led to a wood. Landscape change as such occurred sparsely throughout the book enough to cause confusion. As I read on I realized these changes might have hinted at the many memory fragments Ryder had envisioned in his mind. Once you have persevered through the narrative that seemed to have rambled on so indecipherably, everything began to make sense. The actual time-span of the book was 4 days but Ryder recounted on a montage of memories that might have lasted years. The notion of time was warped repeatedly. A casual elevator conversation could stretch to an hour, drifted to far-gone memories and remote places. In the end, when the compelling prose manifested the threads between Ryder and all the people whose lives he was led in and out for the past few days, you can only appreciate and praise the raconteur in Kazuo Ishiguro. <br />At this point, it's inappropriate of me to further comment on the novel as such comment will only spoil one's reading pleasure. The take home message of this review is that all the characters contribute significantly to the making of Ryder. Readers should never take each nuance lightly. Every meaning and gesture will add to the understanding of the book. The Unconsoled left behind many open ends that one would for sure have to wrestle with it. Ishiguro's writing once again proves he to be one of the finest prose stylists of our time. Engrossing read. 5.0 stars.	2003-05-11
US	51341166	R2JW9JV2ACBN1K	0375724400	388721998	When We Were Orphans: A Novel	Books	4	11	11	N	N	We are NOT obliged to believe everything the narrator says	Readers who made a merit of Kazuo Ishiguro's The Remains of the Day would well up such high anticipation of When We Were Orphans and only to find the book did not achieve the same caliber of the precedent. While I have no doubt that When We Were Orphans is a fine piece of literature, I feel an onus to do its justice in spite of all the (negative) bashing on the book.<br />However jumbled or confusing the book might have appeared (to many people), the plot is very simple. Christopher Banks, the protagonist and narrator, was born and raised in Shanghai, China, in the 1920s when Europeans swarmed into the city for trades and business. Banks' mother was at the time involved in an underground organization that thwarted the imports of opium in the country, a practice that was rife and lucrative. As his parents mysteriously disappeared, one by one, Banks was taken back to England to be under the care of his aunt. Banks eventually became a renowned London detective and returned to Shanghai in hope of resolving the mystery of his parents' disappearance.<br />Far as the unreliable narrator tactics goes, as readers, we are not obliged to believe everything that Banks says (so why the pet peeves?). Ishiguro does not seem to make clear which of the leads readers should hold on to and deem as the truth. The truth is, our ability of recollections is not always as accurate as we think (or we want). The inevitable consequence of such shortcoming only produces in mind mishmash or a collage of memory fragments. Imagine all these combined with the naivete of a 9-year-old, how reliable can the narration be? Even though detective Banks had become increasingly preoccupied with his memories (more or less a preoccupation encouraged by the discovery of his childhood memories), what really happened to his parents remained a blur. From time to time Banks \\"was struck anew by how hazy so much of the memories have grown\\" (70) as he had trouble recalling something that happened 2 or 3 years ago. So while we might have to guess what the truth is, Ishiguro does subtly hint not to trust everything we read.<br />Ishiguro's prose is seamless, elegant and dazzling. He book manifests authenticity of the setting, especially Shanghai, in that given time period, where the so-called elite of Shanghai (made up of Chinese businessmen and politicians in the high echelon of society and foreign entrepreneurs) treated with such contempt the suffering of the average Chinese civilians. The characters are etched, especially the reminiscences of the friendship between Akira and Banks, and the anecdotes when little Banks jocosely ordered his mother to get off the swing at once in fear of breaking it. <br />A fine piece of literature is never without flaw. The book take quite a sharp turns and rushes to an end that shocks not only the readers but the protagonist as well. I will not give that away to spoil the reading experience but to me honestly it is somewhat annoying (and lame). All I can say is the resolution of the case brings about irreparable damage in Banks' life and affirms his traumatic childhood. The fun part is being tricked at the end. An intriguing story. Page-turner. 4.2 stars.	2003-05-10
US	51341166	R395ERVJ42NOD6	0140445285	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Taut, morbid, depraved, mind-boggling	Hailed as one of the greatest novels ever written in all times, Fyodor Dostoyevsky's Crime and Punishment tells the tale of an ex-law student's meticulous, calculated murder of a pawnbroker woman and his showing no remorse for his atrocious crime. In this particularly vivid translation by David McDuff, the words \\"morbid\\" and \\"rabid fury\\" appear at least 5 times, respectively throughout the book. Such stylistic choices invariably set the mood. The dark and morbid prose ominously sets the foreboding tone of the novel as though the act of murder is indeed a preordained announcement of fate noted by Raskolnikov from the beginning. <br />The murder occurred at the very beginning of the book and proceeded which was Raskolnikov's meticulous planning and \\"rehearsal\\" of the perfect crime. He would paid a visit to the pawnbroker, made careful notice of the setup of her apartment, listened for the pitch of the notched key she used to unlock the chest, and sewed a piece of cloth inside his waistcoat to hold the axe. Whether the crime was destitute-driven, the origin of his action could be diffuse and was somehow associated with certain morbid sensations. Indeed Raskolnikov subsequently conferred on his theory about the psychological state of a criminal's mind throughout the entire process of committing the crime. In his audacious \\"ordinary vs. extraordinary\\" statement, the latter could commit the most atrocious crime to whom law did not apply. To Raskolnikov, the morbid theory justified the act of committing atrocious acts upon morally corrupt individuals (the loutish, loathsome, filthy old moneylender woman per se) for the benefit of society. <br />The rest (five-sixths) of the book dealt with Raskolnikov's psychological aftermath of his crime-the intermittent moments of remorse, the excruciating physical suffering (seized with fear that he might give away his murder in his delirium), the howling of his own conscience, and the to-confess-or-not-to-confess struggle. Indeed Raskolnikov's own qualms of conscience had given him away-that investigator Porfiry infallibly identified Raskolnikov as the murderer by employing psychological tactics to play with Raskolnikov's mind. Porfiry contemplated that no less cruel was the punishment from one's own conscience. It was the formidable suffering that led Porfiry to purposely send an artisan to the street and randomly accused Raskolnikov of murder, to make him panic. That's why he wouldn't worry about arresting him imminently. <br />An interesting notion that kept repeating throughout the novel was redemption. Raskolnikov might have found his redemption through Sonya, a downtrodden prostitute who prayed and read the bible. But Sonya herself was asking for mercy and redemption for her own sin to which Raskolnikov deemed as moral suicide. Sonya's father Marmeladov in his deathbed asked for forgiveness and died in Sonya's arms. Svidrigailov, the landowner in whose home Raskolnikov's sister Dunya was ill-treated, offered to cover the cost of Katerina's (Sonya's stepmother) funeral and endowed each of the children with 1500 roubles to be paid on their maturity. In a sense, Svidrigailov hoped to find redemption of his sin (the killing of his wife and servant) through a good deed.<br />Not until in Siberia did Raskolnikov truly begin his repentance. One would be mistaken to think Raskolnikov had felt remorse for his crime when he confessed to Sonya. At that point all he did was nothing but recounting the whole murdering event, from the rehearsal, the timing, and the actual murder from which he was emotionally detached. He simply wanted to make the dare and thus never availed himself of the pawnbroker's treasures. It was the Devil who killed her, he claimed. It was the kind of theory; the sort of argument that said a single villainous act was allowable if the central aim was good. Whether he truly found redemption from his depravity and perversity would be left to readers' judgment.<br />A gloomy, melancholy, and taut air hovered above the entire novel and the language of which could become overwhelming and awkward at times. The plot itself was not so much suspenseful as the most jolting event took place in the beginning. What really gripped my mind were the conflicting emotions of fear, guilt, remorse, and courage. Whenever he was haunted, Raskolnikov would search his memory for some hints he might inadvertently gave away evidence of his crime. You might question how Dostoyevsky could penetrate the mind of a murderer so thoroughly and verbalize those freaky delirious thoughts. Every single character in the novel exerted some sense of agitation which, again, permeated throughout the book. The persistent destitute chased after Sonya's stepmother who already suffered from tuberculosis and hacked up blood. The children starved for days and were forced to perform street dance and begged for money. The inebriated men consumed huge amount of alcohol and paid numerous visits to brothels and indulged in debauchery. The most repugnant of all was Pyotr (Luzhin) who took advantage of women's glooming poverty and wielded the constant reproach over them that he had done a favor, making them forever indebted to him. He would manipulate in hope that Dunya and her mother would fall out with Raskolnikov out of his slanderous remarks. His would slyly slip a 100-rouble note into Sonya's pocket, falsely accused her stealing the money among a ghastly audience, and hopefully made her feel indebted to him. <br />Crime and Punishment is not an easy book to read. You will be rewarded with a sense of fulfillment that is so promising when you manage to finish. No sooner when you open the book than it provokes your mind. The whole novel is about morbidity that gives rise of a serious crime. That means you have to persevere with the psychotic nature of a murderer. It is impossible to do justice of all the implications and historical meaning underlying in this book with just a few paragraphs. Doread it for yourself. 5.0 stars.	2003-05-03
US	51341166	R3GZFZVHASI9LT	0743227433	557768510	China Run: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Adoption took a wrong turn; thrilling but not satisfying	China Run sets in Suzhou, China (some 250 kilometers west of Shanghai) where the government told 6 American families the babies whom they just adopted was the wrong babies. The Chinese law requires adoptive parents have to be at least 35 and have no other children at the time of the adoption application in order to qualify for healthy babies. Otherwise they will only qualify for children with special needs. Allison Turk has come all the way to China with her 9-year-old stepson Tyler to adopt Wen Li. On the morning the Americans supposed to return the babies to orphanage, Allison decided to keep Wen Li and ran away with Nash and Claire Cameron and Ruth Pollard who were determined to keep their babies as well. The Americans set off to seek help from the American embassy in Shanghai with the help of Yi Ling, their Chinese guide. <br />The disappearance of the Americans quickly alerted the government which immediately dispatched the \\"gong an\\" (security) officers to hunt them down. They set up roadblocks and checkpoints on major highways while PSB interrogated Yi Ling's family and whoever might have helped the Americans escape. No sooner than they boarded a ship that belonged to Yi Ling's uncle Yang Boda on the Yangtze than some smuggler boat hit them... A fisherman Ren Kai and his wife Mei Ling sheltered the fugitives, namely now just Ruth and Allison, and tendered Tyler and the babies. Knowing that the whole world is collapsing about her ears, Allison was determined to keep Wen Li and by all means dodged the police. The rest of the book was about her hiding in the truck, walking in the bushes, and dodging those who were after her in her venture down south to Guangzhou (180 kilometers northwest of Hong Kong).<br />The book is a thriller (it doesn't seem to be the case when I read the first chapter) where almost two thirds of it is about the cat-and-mouse chase for the fugitives. It's a page-turner until the last few chapters where the author rambles on and on and makesan effort to drag and twist the story somehow. While the author does excellent and thorough research on places and the reality issues of China, he does expose some of the most repugnant problems in China: the black market of healthy human organs and the extraction of such organs from deceased children in orphanage. Corrupted government officials (such as orphanage director and public security officers) collaborated with gangster rings in smuggling the organs that promised a lucrative business. No less striking was how Xinhua agency (the official government newsagent) often by all means covers up the truth of such vile trades. <br />I realized the book was based on a true story shortly after I finished it. David Ball had managed to fictionize the real-life incident and its characters. At that point I felt somewhat relieved and beamed at the fact that despite the relentless Chinese government there were good-hearted Chinese people who possessed a good conscience. In a country where one's furies stayed tucked neatly beneath the skin, Yi Ling had stood by the truth of her feelings and risked her life to save the babies, to help the Americans escape. She was confronted face-to-face by her own conscience as she encountered Allison escaping on the hotel hallway. It was that split of a second when Yi Ling made the fateful decision out of her heart and not duty. Allison had touched and changed the lives of Ren Kai and his wife Mei Ling. Ren insisted on helping the Americans since he had come this far with them (picked them up in Hokou after the ship collision and took them home) against all odds. An interesting vignette was how well 9-year-old Tyler got along with the Chinese with whom he shared nothing in common. In the midst of touching moments and outrageous adventures, I question the validity of all the events in this book. David Ball might have forged some of the extra thrilling details here and there to touch up the actual incidence. Whatever the case is, this is a different kind of novel about China. It's a quick-read good for an afternoon in the weekend. It also contains sporadic prose on Chinese scenery.  3.6 stars.	2003-05-02
US	51341166	RTL0ELPE6VMHU	074343160X	221286504	Escape From China: The Long Journey From Tiananmen to Freedom	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Cat-and-mouse game between government and dissident	Escape from China is a memoir of a Tienanmen demonstration student leader's 2-year harrowing dodge and escape from Communist China. The original Chinese edition postponed its publication until 1998 (almost 10 years after the massacre) for fear of the government's purge of those who helped Zhang Boli flee the country. Zhang Boli, 26 years of age in 1989, was a graduate student of the Writers' Class in Beijing University, the most prestigious institution of the country. Along with Chai Ling, Wuer Kaixi, Li Lu and other university students, Zhang organized a pro-democracy campaign that sent some one hundred thousand students from all over the country to Tienanmen Square in Beijing. The demonstration and hunger strike, the largest and the most overt of its kind since the 1976 April Fifth Campaign, resonated throughout the country and won support from workers and Beijing civilians. <br />The road to Tienanmen originated from the death of Hu Yaobang on April 15. The national mourning of the former secretary lent it a premonition to a horrible historical event that will be seared into memory of Chinese people. Zhang, in taut manner and rabid details, chronicled the events that led to what the Western world claimed to be the darkest and bloodiest day of modern China-June 4,1989, when the Communist Party ordered troops to pull into Beijing and enforced martial law. From the evening of June 3 to dawn June 4, blood splashed all over the capital and mingled with smoke wafting from vehicles ablaze. Party Secretary Zhao Ziying was forced out of office for his open support for the student demonstrators. While the National People's Congress opposed sending troops into the capital, the Party seized to disperse the students and end the movement by all means. The students and civilians simply underestimated the Army's brutality and were blinded by their naivete. <br />Nobody who has not lived through (and witnessed) the massacre can imagine the terrible burdens imposed on ordinary citizens who live under a totalitarian regime. For two years, Zhang lived the life of a fugitive-he was among the 21 most wanted insurgents who would most likely to be sentenced to death. An executive member of the Preparatory Committee in Beijing University, the editor-in-chief of the News Herald, the deputy commander of hunger strikes, and the President of the Tienanmen Democracy University (a term that refers to the new regime resulted upon the fall of Communist Power, in which people from all over the country can enjoy freedom of speech and rights), Zhang Boli bore the most severe accusations from the Communist Party and was deemed an immediate threat to national security. Zhang fled to Soviet Union and was brought back to the China. He hid in huts along the river banks in Heilongjiang (the northernmost province of China) with the help of friends, distant family relatives and policemen who disapproved of the Party, Zhang settled down as a farmer and lived under a fake identity. His little daughter and his wife Li Yan became his only solace during the struggles. He was determined to live on, to survive as a strong man, struggling against suffering and the Communist dictatorship that had ruined so many lives. When Zhang finally secured a connection in Hong Kong that will help him flee the country, he met his fate that was not only cruel but also excruciating and unexpected. <br />This book is by far the most gripping account of the Tienanmen massacre in 1989. It contains first-hand information from one of the 21 brave souls who stood up and challenged the Communist Party. While many of his dissident comrades were arrested and imprisoned (some were executed), Zhang managed to seek political asylum from the United States and reunited with his daughter Little Snow 10 years after he left the country. Was not for his account of the tragic events, many will not see the true faces of the Communist Party which ruled over 1.6 billion people in a totalitarian dictatorship. Wasnot for the souls lost in bloodshed, Chinese people will never see the vileness and the deceit of the leaders. Nothing published so far manages to achieve the same caliber as this memoir has conveyed the excruciating pain of a common civilian under such dictatorship. 4.0 stars.	2003-04-29
US	51341166	R20LHVWWEFUE3S	0802139256	996091853	Peace Like a River	Books	4	19	24	N	N	Faith, hope and love against all adverse trials	When I received this book as a gift, it was in the midst of the rave that hailed this novel as one of the best of the year (2001). Not only did the book top bestseller charts, almost all major newspapers noted Peace Like a River as a must read. Having no clue of what it was about, I opened the book randomly and it read,<br />\\"Dad laughed aloud for pure delight. And someone climbed up on our porch and knocked. ... And yet so humble were our expectations for this Christmas-so glad were we simply have our dad upright and able to laugh and his stomach to growl-not even uninvited guests could quench us...\\" (p.127)<br />Reuben Land reminisces on his childhood and tells this engrossing tale that is a miracle, a heroic quest, a heartbreaking tragedy, and a mesmerizing love story. Reuben's survival at birth itself is a miracle. He was born with no signs of life-no breathing-for at least ten minutes. The doctor proceeded to certify his death as his father stood praying and asked in the name of God for Reuben to breathe. Though asthmatic Reuben lives. When his dad gave up on medical school, his mom abandoned them and left for a doctor. Reuben tells how his father Jeremiah, who works as a janitor at his school, rescues his brother Davy's girlfriend Dolly from two attackers, Israel Finch and Tommy Basca, at the locker room. In revenge to Jeremiah, the repugnant pair broke into the Land's house one night and was gunned down by Davy out of self-protection. Out of mawkish grief for the boys, the ill-starred Jeremiah was fired from his job and caught tuberculosis. While state troopers and the FBI pursued Davy who broke out from jail, Reuben and his younger sister Swede took care of the house chores and their bedridden father. Salesman Tin Lurvy died of heart attack and left Jeremiah a brand new trailer, now talk about miracle. So the family set out to a cross-state search of the fugitive Davy, who seemed to have disappeared without a trace. Along the journey the family met strangerswho offered more than shelter and favors. <br />This novel reminds us of how faith and love can pull a family together and overcome the most adverse trials however formidable the situations. The book makes its debut at a crucial time when the country is in the least secure and seeks the affirmation that it can stand up to the most terrifying of enemies. As Davy clandestinely met Reuben on the hillside at the back of Roxanna's barn, the book turns a big turn toward a remarkable finale that will pinprick the heart. The book is about a boy who would sacrifice even his own life to defend his beloved family. The book is also about brotherhood-the strong tie between Davy and Reuben, who solely witnessed the break-in at the house and now corresponded with his brother behind everyone's back. I have come to appreciate this 11-year-old's affection for his family. However wrong and outrageous of a crime Davy might have committed, Reuben never stopped believing in his brother. When he paid a visit to Davy at the jail, Reuben saw something that the jailer would never ever see. He saw faith and knowledge inside of his brother. Later on outside Roxanna's ranch, even in the pre-dawn dim light, Reuben saw the black shape up on the mountain and knew it was Davy without a question. The boy also possessed an indecipherably close bonds with his father, whom Reuben proudly regarded as the smartest, kind-hearted and the most capable man anywhere, anytime; a man in whom the mighty God had found favor. <br />Reuben mentioned how these miracles \\"sometimes flowed from [his] father's fingertips\\" and few others had witnessed them besides him. Even though I am left unresolved about Jeremiah's possession of divine nature, (how he actually walked in air and performed miracles? how he managed to remain in one piece without even a bruise after a tornado writhed him skyward and threw him off for 4 miles?)  I enjoyed the reading that fills with heart-thumping, poetic and crisp prose. The book has a slow start, until the story picks up after about 100 pages or so reader's attentiveness is appreciated. This is the kind of book that slowly unravels itself, bit by bit, in order to tenderly grip the hearts of readers who might develop a sense of grief and sympathy for the ill-fated family and what tragedy it has to pull through. The author's profound understanding of human hearts lends it possible to manifest an unforgettable story about relationships and love. 4.7 stars.	2003-04-23
US	51341166	RPCDMFNY43CRN	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Great story, mediocre ending, seize the moment to love!	Ann Petchett's Bel Canto is about seizing the moment in life and making the best out of the most adverse situation. In the vice presidential mansion of a South American country, a lavish birthday party is being held in honor of Mr. Katsumi Hosokawa, chairman of the prestigious Nensei Corporation in Japan. Mr. Hosokawa takes up the invitation (despite turning down a dozen similar ones) to a birthday party thrown by people whom he barely acquaints with in a country thousands of miles away from home only because Roxanne Coss, the most revered soprano in opera, will perform at the dinner party for a price that is considerably more than the entire cost of the rest of evening. While the elegant American soprano mesmerizes her international guests with arias, a band of armed terrorists break into the ballroom from air-conditioning vents and in a split of a second divide up and take the whole party into hostage. After all the women, children, workers, and the sick are released, 58 guests including the soprano remain in the mansion while the terrorists maintain a standoff with the government which adamantly refuses to meet the terrorists' demands to free political prisoners. <br />To my surprise, the standoff turns out to be something I never expect-having kept such close quarters for so long (almost five months), the guests and the gun-wielding terrorist forge a bondage, if not friendship, that later evolves into a seize-the-moment romance, an overnight chess game, a vocal lesson on singing opera, and a hostage-against-terrorist soccer tournament. Guests from different continents befriend with one another and become compatriots despite the language barrier. Gen, Hosokawa's personal translator who speaks all the Anglo-Saxon and Germanic languages in addition to several Asian tongues, plays a key role to bring these people together and clarifies any misunderstanding (speakers of different languages do get on the wrong foot sometimes) as all conversations, important or paltry,urgent or laid-back, have to go through him. Gen, though does not belong to the rich-and-famous elite group of diplomats and business gurus, immediately deems the most crucial member of the hostage as he takes the responsibility of a secretary and serves as the bridge between the terrorists and the guests. As the rule of thumb I will not give away the story but the novel has in store unpleasant surprises.<br />This novel, which fictionizes the 1996 Tupac Amaru takeover of the Japanese ambassadorial mansion in Lima, Peru, explores the state of mind and the changing attitudes of the hostage in a siege that spans almost six months. Some might have deemed the book unrealistic but not until a closer look at the characters are we able to make out what motivates the characters to forget the real danger that has set in motion. For Hosokawa, it's the re-discovery of the true meaning to love. His relationship with his wife has been nothing but a form of efficiency. He cannot even be sure if it is love between him and his wife, who serves as an attentive wife and a caring mother. Music, not his family nor his business, is the mark by which Hosokawa gauges his ability to love. Love imbues in him the courage to seize the moment to pursue the love of his life (which I will not give away). For Gen, it is Carmen whom he teaches English and Spanish and eventually with whom he falls in love. For Roxanne Coss, it is Caesar whom she teaches how to sing opera and Carmen whose hair she brushes in the morning. For the vice president Rebuen, it's the reminiscence of his family, the second chance to live his life, to appreciate the lush garden with its verdant shrubs and the velvety leaves, to come home early and spend time with his children instead of walking through dark silhouettes of plants into the house late at night from his civil responsibilities. For Simon Thibault the French ambassador, it is his reaffirmation of his love for his wife Edith. For the Russian businessman Fyodorov,it is the meaning of giving kindness. It seems very sarcastic to me that in this house where they are confined and stripped of their freedom, the guests begin to reach the essence and truth of life. Caesar has yet to show the slightest hint of finding the edges of what he is capable of, that he is finding the depths in singing. Maybe true life is indeed something that is stored in music. And true love is only revealed when you really get to know someone.<br />While Patchett paints the story with impeccable details and anecdotal records of the individuals involved, I'm not resolved with many questions. What has happened to the President who says he will attend the party but cancels at the last minute? Has he known of the terrorists' attack? Why does it take the government three months to send the first imperative letter to the terrorists? While these questions still whirl through my mind the book has taken a sharp turn and has rushed into an abrupt ending that leaves me quite disappointed. Patchett tries to sew all the threads together in the epilogue but the effort has only downplayed the beauty of the novel she has meticulously created. 4.0 stars.	2003-04-20
US	51341166	R3QRRKWVTJPNT8	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	2	8	9	N	N	Strong gripping start;dragging to end;weird characters	The idea of a girl who was raped and murdered quickly worked up a hype nationwide that allowed The Lovely Bones to even reach the hands of middle school students. I have to admit; the idea of which was so gripping that I bought the book judging from the \\"advanced praises\\" and the pre-release hype. Well, I should have known better. The leading chapter of the book about 14-years-old Susie Salmon was so well-written and promising that anybody who riffled through it at the bookstore would have paid and taken it home. What came after the opening was a different story. The book then meandered through a diverse string of characters who were if not emotionally dead, sad and pathetic. Susie's mother, who seemed to have withdrawn her emotion about her daughter, was so self-piteous and nonchalant. No less annoying was Lindsey, whose character seemed to have faded out after she shut down emotionally (actually I rather not to read about her after her embarking on a sexual relationship at such a young age). While the book did not follow a conventional plot, Sebald had to rely on the diverse characters whose stories Susie told from Heaven. (Is that really Heaven? I felt no sense of joy and happiness from that Heaven.) The attempt just did not pull through as much as the author intended. The result was a bunch of people doing weird things that were meant to enrich the novel but gave the impression as fillers. The epitome of such weirdness was Ray Singh, who was some sensual Indian from Britain. Well, Sebald tried too hard to include all the ethnic minorities in her little book. How about that Ruth who claimed to see dead people? Was she supposed to be like Cleo who possessed a divine psychic nature? And I have never encountered a grandmother who was as annoying as Susie's. Oh this is my favorite one: Holly. Holly was Susie's deceased friend who believed that there should be no other languages spoken in \\"Heaven\\" besides perfect English with the perfect accent. That's flat out annoying and racist. While there were so many open threads, Sebald rushed to an ending that was too contrived, too \\"neatly-done\\" and flat-out weak. So many things were left \\"as is\\". What happened to the villain Harvey? What happened to detective Len? Some of the characters change by 180 degrees with no reason. The investigation of Susie's murder never followed through and Sebald never bothered to tell us what really happened. The destinies of her diverse characters were left to readers' imaginations as they were abandoned at the end. The take-home message from The Lovely Bones is hype does not mean great literature. No wonder tons of used copies are making their way back to the bookstores (I'm usually a pack-rat but I got rid of this one). Readers shouldn't even take it seriously as a piece of fine literature but read it as a light-fare in one sitting. 2.0 stars.	2003-04-18
US	51341166	R3NG58YZOUFHOH	1560231858	207558900	Metes and Bounds: A Novel (Southern Tier)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Tale of questing for self-identity and establishing bounds	\\"The same thing with surfing. If you had a tan, and walked around going \\"Dude\\" all the time, you were just another cartoon, like gay people on television. No, being a surfer meant you got out, faced your own fears and lack of expertise, and did it. It was like being queer. The rush came from getting better at it.\\" -Matthew, 18<br />Indeed Matt has gone through an adolescence that is drastically different from many of his peers, one that is filled with fears, temptations, and heartbreaking relationships. At 18, few months away from his high school graduation, Matt recounts with his uncle Tiger, who is merely 8 years older than he, at his grandmother's funeral. Matt only vaguely remembers his uncle and is always haunted by the incident when  he caught Tiger making out with a brawny air force officer in the dark empty theater balcony. Not only did Matt's aunts begrudge with Tiger, they did not bother to notify him of the funeral. Parting with his boyfriend Chris who has gone off to college, Matt realizes the need for a change in his life. He loves his mother but whose self-righteousness has shunned him and made his life around the house difficult. Tiger has graciously offered Matt to stay with him and his partner Mark at the beach and teaches him surveying. Aside from work and school, Matt is taught how to surf by Tiger and Mark who get him a surfing board, a wet suit, and a leash and a nose guard as graduation gift. <br />This novel is a very quick and relaxing read. I finish it in one sitting. It's almost like an armchair travel book of the North Carolina coast. Matt tells the story and he flips back and forth on his life before and after moving to the beach. So you will see parallel stories running concurrently, particularly reminiscence of Chris and his novel gay adventures with a married man Tillett, who only uses him for pleasure. Aside from the erotic and graphic prose (which is inevitable and steamy), the book also explores the role of Tiger on Matt. Under thementorship of Tiger and Mark, along with his own trials and errors, Matt comes to establish the metes and bounds of relationships. He realizes he cannot \\"look for himself in other people\\". The secret (I will not give it away) that accounts for the family grudge against Tiger has only drawn Matt closer to his uncle ever. For Matt, learning about his uncle (and his past and his relationship with Mark who divorces his wife) has always been a part of learning about himself. Tiger has blazed the trail Matt wishes to go. He has taught Matt how good and difficult it is to have a lover and a life together. When Matt reunions with his friend Jeep and finds out about his secret crush on him, Matt is shocked but approaches his best friend with passion. In a sense, the book is very \\"real\\" in capturing the fear, the helplessness, the love, the naivete, the innocence, the stupidity, the jealousy, and the sorry-but-I-cannot-help-it feeling of an 18 year old who ventures out into the queer life. A quick read.  3.8 stars.	2003-04-13
US	51341166	R3VCJ2P2S118UJ	0156628708	179043206	Mrs. Dalloway	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Dazzling and idiosyncratic language; whirlwind of thoughts	Out of a gnawing curiosity after reading The Hours, I found my way to Mrs. Dalloway. The novel unfolds over one sultry day in London as Clarissa Dalloway is preparing for a party she will give in the evening. Smith has battled against mental illness from his experiences in World War II. Clarissa kicks off the day buying flowers for the party. As the day unravels, narration begins to shift to different characters. Clarissa reminisces of her entangled love relationships at Bourton. During her earlier years, Clarissa caught herself between her fianc, Peter Walsh, her sensual female friend Sally Seton, and her husband Richard Dalloway. Much to Clarissa's surprise (as well as mine) is when all these old-time lovers reunion at the evening party in the presence of the Prime Minister. Peter Walsh shows up at Clarissa's doorstep right before the party after running off to India for some 25 years. The voluptuous Sally Seton also makes her entrance as Lady Rosseter. Present among the London elite are Sir Septimus Warren Smith and his wife. Smith has struggled with mental illness from his experiences of World War I. Incidents that lead to convergence of these characters is what makes the book a legacy (you have to read and find out).<br />The book overall does not manifest a structure. Virginia Woolf has told the story through the multiple point of views from the different characters. The book also explores the hidden thoughts, feelings, and actions and relies on which to tell the story. At the end the story is seamlessly woven together with the party being the meeting points of all her characters. The pleasure of reading this book stems from seeing how these characters have gone their own separate and unpredictable ways, headed off in their own directions, pinned by memory, and cross path again at the evening party. If you find reading The Hours somewhat confusing, Mrs. Dalloway is even more so, between the shifts of characters. For a tiny book Woolf has written prose that is packed with figurative language, poetic expressions, vivid details and provocative tones. The sensual affair between Clarissa and Sally is hinted at in a stifling manner. Michael Cunningham graciously makes that affair come into fruition by putting Clarissa and Sally in the same bedroom in The Hours. The book is simple in plot, but rich in language. That is, certain level of attentiveness is required for reading. I'm convinced that Michael Cunningham must have inherited Woolf's idiosyncratic language and long sentences! And I think this is what many fellow reviewers refer as the &quot;stream-of-consciousness&quot; approach. But don't let that the big term turn you off and miss this great novel. A crafted work. 4.0 stars.	2003-04-10
US	51341166	R3SPG416PULU5D	0743242203	304993804	The Boy on the Bus: A Novel	Books	4	18	21	N	N	About family issues and identity crisis	Deborah Schupack's debut novel reminds me of the capgras syndrome, a psychological condition in which the patient fails to recognize a close family member or friends. Maybe our protagonist Meg's condition is not as severe as such, or she doesn't suffer from it at all, but the idea of a mother who fails to recognize her own son is promising enough to draw my attention. <br />Vermont. Mudseason. On an ordinary Thursday afternoon, something extraordinary, at least to Meg, happens. The boy who comes home on the school bus is not the boy whom she sends off to school on the same bus this morning! The new boy looks and acts like Charlie, her 8-year-old son; but there is something subtly and indescribably different about him despite the copper hair and tea-brown eyes that share with Charlie's. Where does he get that argyle sweater that shouldn't be worn by an 8-year-old? What happens to his face that looks maturer? Not only is the sheriff summoned to the bus, the whole town show up and prey on her for information of her child's tantrum. A tension kicks in as the whole family comes home. Jeff Carroll, Meg's partner and father of the boy and his 13-year-old sister Katie, has taken up an architectural project in Canada and is seldom found at home. Katie is retrieved from the boarding school to talk her brother and see what might have gone amiss. Neither Jeff nor Katie resolve to make out of Charlie's problem. He's just acting weird, Katie notes. Dr. Ireland at the Vermont County Hospital concludes that the boy no longer has asthma. Not only is the boy more energetic and stronger, he is full of knowledge that a 8-year-old usually will not bear. He is charming and unnervingly polite. <br />This book is more about family and Meg's personal identity crisis than mystery that the blurb claims to be. I'm somewhat disappointed Schupack has not offered a solid resolution to the question that troubles Meg (and myself): Is that really Charlie? I guess it's not so much about whether the boy is Charlie or not; of more interest to me is what might have prompted Meg to think the boy is not Charlie. Meg herself struggles with being a mother and an aspiring painter. The very reason to move into a farm in Vermont is to rekindle that painter's aspiration in Meg that was inevitably put away when she had to focus on being a mother. Continual absences of Jeff and Charlie's chronic asthmatic condition take a toll on Meg as well.  A lack of father figure also takes a toll on the boy, who is willing to &quot;disappear&quot; in exchange for his father's stay at the house. While Meg no longer knows her son, she feels she doesn't deserve the child, who is better and more grown up. The novel follows this family for less than 4 days but has revealed a slice of a typical family and its issues: rebellious teenage daughter who calls her brother a &quot;weakling&quot;, husband-and-wife communication (or the lack of such)....Despite an ending that might be somewhat ambiguous, the book is cleverly and elegantly written. 3.9 stars.	2003-04-06
US	51341166	R3B9ZU0QJUBXPH	0312311354	306188446	The Pianist: The Extraordinary True Story of One Man's Survival in Warsaw, 1939-1945	Books	5	44	48	N	N	Tale of endurance, faith, and hope	In his book The Pianist: The Extraordinary True Story of One Man's Survival in Warsaw, Wladyslaw Szpilman writes, \\"A number of people escaped with their lives during the war because of the cowardice of the Germans, who liked to show courage only when they felt they greatly outnumbered their enemies.\\" Truly and luckily, Szpilman is one among the number. From almost a million Jews population in the city of Warsaw, through \\"resettlement\\", human-hunting, and unreasonable decrees; the Germans trimmed the Jewish descent to its bone of merely twenty-five thousand in just 5 years. It is the very cowardice of the Germans, and more importantly the undying will of living that makes Szpilman's survival possible. I'm not in a position to judge the manner of which this book was written, simply because it was Mr. Szpilman's real life story and to whom I shall pay my highest tribute and regard. <br />The prose is written in a very calm voice which somewhat surprises me at the beginning. Later I realize that no sooner had the war ended and the Germans surrendered than Mr. Szpilman wrote this account fresh from memory. It seems to be that Mr. Szpilman was emotionally detached during the writing as he probably had not come back to his senses after the inferno. That also explained why he could accurately recall and date the incidents accordingly. The book itself is emotionally difficult to read and at some points I have to put it down, close my eyes and meditate for a minute. Few of the incidents still capture my mind and bother me after I finish reading: Mr. Szpilman's parting from his family as his parents, brother and sisters were taken away to concentration camp; the clearing of a Jewish orphanage founded by his friend Janusz who stayed his children on their final journey, the Germans (fabricated) video-clipping of Jewish men and women shower naked in public bathhouse to show how immoral and despicable the Jews were; and Mr. Szpilman's fugitive life after his escape from the Germans. Mr. Szpilman attempted suicide but the will for survival overcame the idea. His life took a dramatic turn when Captain Hosenfeld found him in the ruined city of Warsaw and spared his life. Though he never found the man, as Mr. Szpilman reminisced, Hosenfeld was the angel without whom, Mr. Szpilman, a Polish Jew, would probably not have survived at all. During his hiding days, Mr. Szpilman meditated on the music pieces and arduously maintained the hope of playing piano for the Poles again. Mr. Szpilman's account is a stunning tale of endurance, faith, and hope.	2003-03-29
US	51341166	R3U3Z5B8A74HRB	0060953748	154462447	River Town: Two Years on the Yangtze	Books	5	229	233	N	N	Thoughtful account of an American's life in China	In his concluding remarks of River Town: Two Years on the Yangtze, Peter Hessler points us to the nub of his experience in China:<br />\\"I had never had any idealistic illusions about my Peace Corps 'service' in China; I wasn't there to save anybody or leave an indelible mark on the town. If anything, I was glad that during my two years in Fuling I hadn't built anything, or organized anything, or made any great changes to the place. I had been a teacher, and in my spare time I had tried to learn as much as possible about the city and its people. That was the extent of my work, and I was comfortable with those roles and I recognized their limitations.\\"<br />In fall 1996, Peter Hessler, at the age of 26, took a Peace Corps assignment that relocated him to a small town in the Sichuan province of China. Many natives let alone a young American who made his inaugural entrance into the country did not know and hear of Fuling. It's a former coal-mining town that is bounded by the Yangtze and the Wu. Chongqing and the Three Gorges are just hours away by boats. The book chronicles, in a rather casual but detailed way, Peter's teaching experience at the Fuling Education College and his life and anecdotes in town. Interwoven into Peter's diary are descriptions of local landmarks and customs. This book is by far the most passionate and yet accurate and objective account written any foreigners. Peter really does possess a keen sense of his surroundings. Throughout his crisp, interesting prose and attention to details, the Chinese 'laobaixing' (common people) become alive as if we are actually interacting with them.<br />I am in awe of how far Peter has gone in making meticulous observations of the Chinese culture and its people. A lot of what he mentions in this book is often overlooked by foreigners. To cite some examples:<br />1)Cultural shock: Wherever Peter goes in town, he often gathers a crowd looking dagger at him, saying 'hello', calling name and following him. To his surprises later on, he realizes the town has never had a foreign visitor for at least 50 years. It is a mixed bag of xenophobia and curiosity for foreigners. No soon than Peter arrived in town than he realized that foreigners are usually treated differently in daily necessities and accommodation. Certain inns were forbidden to accommodate foreigners due to the untidiness. Foreigners often had to pay a higher fare for the steamboats. <br />2)Teaching style: Learning Chinese was excruciatingly painful for Peter (and for many Americans I'm sure). The Mandarin comes with 4 intonations and the thousands of characters have complicated strokes and dots. Suffice it to say that the slightest mispronunciation or missing a stroke in writing will reap a harsh admonishment from Peter's native Chinese teacher. 'Budui' is the devil word meaning 'wrong'. As Peter has pointed out, the Chinese teaching style is significantly different from the western methods. If a student is wrong, she needed to be corrected (or rebuked) immediately without any quibbling or softening. It is the very strict standard that motivates Peter to determinedly show his teacher he is 'dui' (right). His bitter encounter with the Chinese way enables him to finally relate to his Chinese-American peers, who go to school and become accustomed to the American system of gentle correction. But the Chinese parents expect more-unless you get straight A's, you haven't achieved anything yet! Hey, I can relate to this Peter!<br />3)Hong Kong handover: Little did I know about how the mainland Chinese made such a big deal about the turn-of-the-century event in 1997 until I read Peter's account. His students have been drilled on the shamefulness of history, of how the Britain defeated the Chinese in Opium War, of how China was coerced to cease the fragrant city for 150 years. I knew about how the Chinese (especially the Party leaders) awaited the moment when the five-star red flag ascend to full staff in Hong Kong but shamefulness? The magnitude of the colony's return to motherland simply overwhelmed Peter (and myself): the handover lapel pin, the handover umbrella, and the handover rubber flip-flops!<br />4)Chinese collectivism: This is something that not only amazes but also puzzles me and Peter has nailed it to the root. The Chinese people are often nonchalant, indifferent, and apathetic to politics, crisis or crimes. Well, according to Peter, 'as long as a pickpocket [or whatever] did not affect you personally, or affect somebody in your family, it was not your business.' So this is the usual Chinese mind-my-own-business attitude. This attitude is so implanted inveterately into the Chinese due to decades of isolation (from media and geography) and political control. I think Peter really brings it home. The consequence is a strictly standardized education system, common beliefs among the people, common reactions toward political issues, and an unchallenging submission to authority. <br />River Town is indeed one of the best books I've ever read for years. Peter is not only an on-looking 'waiguoren' (foreigner) but he has found his identity among the Chinese. He befriended the owner of the restaurant and his family. He established daily and weekly routines which include newspaper reading at the teahouse and chatting with the teahouse 'xiaojie' (girls), hiking up to the mountaintop, visiting the vendors at a local park, and hanging out with his students after class. During the summer vacation, he took an excursion to the Great Wall in Shanxi and Urmuqi in Xinjiang. The prose is vivid, crisp, and gripping. I really appreciate how he approaches the people and culture with an honesty-to have gone so far as some of the moments of candor become unpleasant. This is a page-turner, the kind of book that you don't want to end so soon. 5.0 stars.	2003-03-27
US	51341166	R26Y58KD0K5LTU	0312305060	785940945	The Hours	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Creative, contrived and uneventful	Not a clue do I know about this book until I see the movie trailer with Meryl Streep playing Mrs. Dalloway. Oh yes, she can be such a driving force to me-to actually swing by the bookstore out of the way home and pick up a copy of The Hours. In fact Meryl Streep is mentioned in passing at the beginning of the book. The Hours is a novel about three women at different times of the twentieth century whose lives share a common thread: the novel Mrs. Dalloway. Virginia Woolf is fictionized here as she and her husband Leonard are recuperating at the Hogarth House in 1923. Woolf just commences writing Mrs. Dalloway. Toward the end of the 20th century, in New York City, Clarissa Vaughan is a 52-year-old lesbian mother and poetry editor who is preparing a party for a poet dying from AIDS. She has been Richard's lifelong friend and caregiver and whom the poet addresses her as Mrs. D (for Dalloway). Finally during the 1950s, Laura Brown, mother of a 3-year-old son, finds herself pregnant again and feels tired of her perfect marriage life. She harbors lesbian inclination toward her neighbor and only wants to read in bed all day. Like Clarissa, Laura is preparing a birthday dinner for her husband Dan. As the events of each of these women unfold, you will find that the book culminates to a single surrealistic event that you will ask yourself, 'why didn't I think of that?' This is where all three women's lives converge.<br />The book is relatively uneventful (if you discount the final convergence of all three women) and especially so for Clarissa's part, which spans less than 24 hours. I find the book very creative and interesting. I only recall a recent release that uses the Tiananmen massacre as a backdrop to link together the threads of two brothers. The way Cunningham works these stories and intertwines them simply enthralls me. One interesting thing about the book is I don't feel emotionally stirred by it after I put it down. I'm somewhat shocked by the ending which pieces all three lives together but I'm not moved. (I wonder why?) I feel like I don't know these people though I have read their stories. Cunningham doesn't invest much in developing his characters' humane but simply telling the story. The book is filled with contrived overtones--even in Cunningham's own words--that \\"our lives seem, against all odds and expectations, to burst open and give us everything we've ever imagined\\" and hours will be followed by hours, far darker and difficult. The Hours is a page-turner: it will so much quicker than you want it to. Cunningham's prose is crisp and tart, but can be overwhelming in length:<br />\\"It seems that she can survive, she can prosper, if she has London around her; if she disappears for a while into the enormity of it, brash and brazen now under a sky empty of threat, all the uncurtained windows (here a woman's grave profile, there the crown of a carved chair), the traffic, men and women going lightly by in evening clothes; the smells of wax and gasoline, of perfume, as someone, somewhere (on one of these broad avenues, in one of these white, porticoed houses), plays a piano; as horns bleat and dogs bay, as the whole raucous carnival turns and turns, blazing, shimmering; as Big Ben strikes the hours, which fall in leaden circles over the partygoers and the omnibuses, over stone Queen Victoria seated before the Palace on her shelves of germaniums, over the parks that lie sunken in their shadowed solemnity behind black iron fences.\\" <br />A whopping 150-word sentence! The prose is so rich in dazzling details that I have to backtrek from time to time and figure out what Cunningham is trying to say. I guess this is what I enjoy the most in this reading experience. Finally Cunningham's empathy for Virginia Woolf leave a thirst in me for more of her work. 4.0 stars.	2003-03-25
US	51341166	RLIM85H28XQIN	0721682332	542955831	Cellular and Molecular Immunology, 4e	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Primer on the subject	The title of the book says it all: this book treats the expertise of immunology at the cellular and molecular level. It approaches the subject through a collection of explanations of experimental observations. Neither am I a physician nor a medical student, I find this book very comprehensible and helpful in explaining the principles of molecular biology/biochemistry [along with my expertise in chemistry] pertinent to the HIV virus. The book is abound with illustrations and pictorials though the authors at times drag on repeating concepts. The section on effector mechanisms of the immune responses is done in excellent gory details. Tons of illustrations, graphics making understanding of biochemical and immunological mechanisms a less strenuous task. For example, the HIV virus, the book will cover the abnormal events that occur at the first contact of the HIV virus. Then it talks about the virus mechanisms and the effect on the immune response. This 5th edition has been revised and now includes new info and materials about the lymphoid organs and innate immunity mechanism. I recommend it to medical students, pre-meds, and all health care professionals. 4.0 stars.	2003-03-20
US	51341166	R12OTJUQNHQ9XM	0471960942	856130256	The Molecular Biology of HIV/AIDS (Molecular Medical Science Series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Ample information in details; new edition due	While most of the books in the expertise of biology, chemistry and biochemistry discuss HIV/AIDS, this book completely focuses on the inside out of the disease. *The Molecular Biology of HIV/AIDS* highlishts the principles of molecular biology of HIV/AIDS with an emphasis on clinical medicine. Topics include:<br />Molecular biology of the HIV<BR>Transmission of the HIV<BR>Early events after HIV infection<BR>Molecular biology of disease progression<BR>Cellular immune response of HIV<BR>Viral co-factions in HIV infection<BR>Neurological damages of the HIV infection<BR>Malignancies associated with the HIV infection<BR>Molecular biology of the antiretroviral drugs<BR>Progress with HIV vaccines<br />This book takes readers through the come-about of the virus [note: HIV+ is NOT the same as AIDS] and final stages of the AIDS: background of the virus, the nature of its structure, means and methods of its transmission, latent period of the virus, early stages of infection (syndromes), progression from infection to full-grown disease, replication of virus, replication of the viral DNA, mechanisms of such replication and transcription, complication of the disease such as malignancies. Since the book is geared toward those in the expertise and medical students, much of the discussion is presented in full gory details. Chemical and biochemical pathways of replication mechanism are illustrated and discussed in full details. However, the simplicity and lucidity with which the book is written will be very reader-friendly to those who just want a basic understanding of the virus. The section of antiretroviral drugs is general in a sense that new developments  of treatment and drugs are so often that only medical journals could have kept up. 4.2 stars.	2003-03-19
US	51341166	R1J6YZEKKISV6H	0375421815	987113882	The Crazed: A Novel	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Witty approach to expose the post-Cultural Revolution China	The literature department at Shanning University came to a halt at the news of Professor Yang suffering from a sudden stroke in spring 1989. The professor has been a mainsay of the department: teaches a full load, directs the M.A. program and manages to publish more papers than other faculty members. University authority assigned literature graduate student Jian Wan, who also engaged to the professor's daughter Meimei, to attend the professor at the hospital. <br />Jian Wan was in the midst of his preparation for Ph.D qualifying exam. Little did he expect the caring of his father-in-law-to-be would open him up to a brand new perspective of life in new China. Jian at first did not make out of what the professor ranted about. As the professor developed some Alzheimer's-like syndrome and advised Jian to abandon his Ph.D exam, his study had inevitably taken a toll. In his &quot;altered&quot; state, the professor sternly dismissed a scholar career as some meaningless existence. This sort of remark deeply rooted in the Chinese Proletarian Cultural Revolution, where scholars were dubbed counter-revolutionary and marked for re-education. Professor Yang along with other scholars were purged and sent to village for &quot;mind renewal&quot;. Jian was torn between the pursuit of real contentment and his love life. Dropout from Ph.D candidacy would mean losing Meimei, who studied medicine in Beijing and expected Jian's company as soon as he was admitted to Beijing University.<br />Professor Yang kept on raving about the Communist Party, pleading with some ghostly tormentors (probably the Red China Guards during Cultural Revolution), denouncing his family, criticizing a system in which a scholar was merely &quot;just a piece of meat on a cutting board&quot;, &quot;a screw in the machine of revolution.&quot; As his health deteriorated, the professor spewed up more shocking secret: an affair with one his graduate students whom he mentored. Whether or not the professor was telling the truth, Jian would have to make his own decision about living his life. <br />The novel is written with spare prose and extreme lucidity. What interests me the most is not the language but the layers of implications. Every single confession the professor makes represent the pain, the craziness, and the helplessness of post-Cultural Revolution China. Maybe this (the historical background) is what makes the book a strenuous read despite the simple language. The book connects the dot between the notorious Cultural Revolution (1956-1967) and the more recent Tienanmen massacre (1989). Professor Yang's anguish from the past (Cultural Revolution) and Jian's precarious dilemma (Tienanmen democracy walkout) only sneak a peek of the austere, oppressive life in China. 4.0 stars.	2003-03-16
US	51341166	RGKTI058RR3RA	006093090X	807655132	The Night Listener: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Gripping piece of literature window-dressed as mystery	*The Night Listener* is gripping from beginning to end. Literally I am glued to the page. Writer and radio storyteller Gabriel Noone just broke up with his partner Jess who battled with AIDS. Things take a sharp turn as Jess' viral load plummeted to zero. As Gabriel noted that he would \\"like to believe there was a moment when I received this news with unalloyed joy...For the great love I'd longed for all my life had been a certainty only while Jess was dying.\\" Anyway Jess moved out and found himself a new circle of friends and social etiquettes. <br />13-year-old Pete Lomax was the \\"godsend\\" who stepped into Gabriel's life at the perfect timing. Gabriel was asked by his publishing agent to review galleys of Pete's book and write a blurb for it. Immediately hooked to Pete's story Gabriel began a series of phone conservations with Pete who lived in Wisconsin with his foster mother Donna. Donna came to his rescue after Pete sneaked out from his folks' house in a blizzard. His parents had physically and sexually abused him, and prostituted him with pedophiles. <br />Donna (a psychiatrist) was the first person Pete ran into at the hospital. She already knew about Pete's HIV status and decided to protect him from strangers and most importantly, his painful past miseries. When Pete finally let down his guard and spoke to her for the first time a few months after his escape, Donna encouraged him to overcome this fear by writing his memories down on paper. Afterall, Pete \\"trusts voices more than he can trust a face.\\" As Gabriel and Pete talked more on the phone, their relationship become like father-and-son. <br />As the publisher had no means to legitimate Pete in order to publish his book, Gabriel began to have doubt about the existence of Pete. He began to think if Donna and Pete, who shared the same high-pitched Wisconsin accent, are the really the same person. When the book was dropped finally, Gabriel made a trip from San Francisco to Wisconsin to locate Pete. <br />This novel is extremely imaginative. Some might have thought Maupin has gone too far with the idea a middle-aged gay man making a last attempt of fatherhood with a 13-year-old dying of AIDS. But I find this book very appealing and gripping. At first Gabriel Noone seems really pitiful and pathetic. He always looks at life in a pessimistic eye. His relationship with Jess wrecked only because he never acknowledged his true feelings and emotions inside. The search for Pete after Donna disconnected phone service turns the book into some suspenseful mystery. Pete really taught Gabriel a lesson of love: to believe and let go. And what makes this book on my A list is the ending that comes with a twist. Good to the very last page. I have to say Armistead Maupin has become a favorite author of mine after *The Night Listener*. Literature window-dressed as mystery. 4.5 stars.	2003-03-12
US	51341166	R17ZDAM75I9R1Z	0805055088	687261224	The River at the Center of the World: A Journey Up the Yangtze, and Back in Chinese Time	Books	2	141	171	N	N	I'm actually quite annoyed by this book...	The back cover of the book tells of Simon Winchester's reverse-the-Yangtze boat travel from Shanghai back to its origin up in the western mountains. That sounds quite appealing to me as I have never traveled through the Three Gorges (not to mention that upon completion of the great dam near Xilin Gorge the river will raise at feet 400 feet and inundate thousands of pagodas). I have decided that the book was an instant disappointment after finished reading the first few chapters. Two things about this book that REALLY bother me:<br />1)Winchester, though researched all these interesting (historical) stories, does not say much about lives along the Yangtze River. He would spend pages and pages talking and reflecting on his memories as he sails through the river sceneries. You will ask: what about the Chinese people living along the river? How are their lives? What about his interactions with the locals? He omits all these as if they simply don't exist or he is just sailing along some remote uninhabited towns.<br />2)Over and over again Winchester implies his superiority (or superiority of the Western culture) over the Chinese. What on earth is this all about? But thanks to this book so I know what a REALLY good travel narrative/memoir is all about. Peter Hessler's &quot;River Town: Two Years on the Yangtze River&quot; is a completely opposite account to Winchester's in terms of both contents and attitude. Peter interacted and spent time to get to know the locals without judgmentally commenting on their disparaging lifestyles.<br />I simply don't like and don't agree with this book. Neither do I like the writing style nor the stories it has to offer. The narrative is repetitious and cliched. Not recommended. 2.2 stars.	2003-03-11
US	51341166	R3LJRBH2X5XDMW	0743421574	246990743	Shanghai Baby: A Novel	Books	1	29	37	N	N	You gotta be kidding me...Shoddy, choppy and empty	Shoddy, scrappy, and empty-Shanghai Baby tries very hard to expose the dark side of the so-called new Chinese generation. I'm not a native of Shanghai but I bet for sure this is NOT what it's like to be in Shanghai, at least not the representative of the new generation. I would say what the author tries to convey here does not serve as a credible source. <br />OK the story is plain and predictable but deliciously naughty: Some carnal girl named Coco (her real name, by the way, is Nikki) waits tables at a local caf and meets this hedonist artist Tian Tian, who is handsome in an effeminate way, and falls in love madly with him. Defying her parents, Coco moves in with this new lover of hers and throws herself into a frenzy of drugs, sex, and drunkenness. Tian Tian's impotence threatens the relationship and gives Coco a convenient excuse to flirt and eventually enters an affair with a German businessman named Mark, who has a penchant for S/M. Mark gives her a sense of thrill-not only he satisfies her life-long sexual hunger but opens her up her inner lust. So you can imagine what goes on next after these two hit it off. The novel becomes some silly bored erotica prose the author attempts to arouse readers.<br />The protagonist, namely Coco, annoys me so much with her self-indulgence and self-worship. She really thinks she is good-looking and all that but she really isn't. The only thing that I \\"actually\\" like about this novel is her provocative portrayal of the cultural transition that goes on now in urban China. This is something that was not recognized, say, 10 years ago. The book provides the hip side of China and the rising cult status of lives led by younger generation. Yet this very \\"risqu\\" nature of the book has caused a wave of disapproval among parents who fear their teenaged daughters will follow suit. The result was a massive confiscation of the books followed by a nationwide ban imposed by the high-end: the Chinese Communist Party. <br />I am not to judge whether Beijing has reacted with overhype or paranoia. But I really don't find anything about this book worthy of recommending to fellow readers. Not to get down on English-as-a-second-language writer like Wen Hui (in fact she only wrote the original Chinese version which was then adopted and translated into English), but the writing is really scrappy and shoddy. At one point I stopped and put the book down and asked if I should keep on reading. I would not call it a guidebook to the sleazy bars in Shanghai either simply because it doesn't reflect the scenes. I daresay less than 0.01% of all Shanghainese girls could somehow relate to what Coco has gone through. This one would at most be some filler book to kill time while you're searching for other great books to read. It will do you just fine while you're waiting for the connecting flight at the airport. Not recommended for serious readers. 1.5 stars.<br />[Note] This book has received my lowest rating of all fiction work.	2003-03-09
US	51341166	RTR2HFPJ88949	1586481223	918495965	The Tiananmen Papers	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Eye-opening, confidential material smuggled out from China	OK I'll start with a disclaimer: you should not bring this book with you on your next vacation in China because this contains highly sensitive, confidential, and provocative contents. Books like these are what the Chinese government labels as materials that \\"threaten national security.\\" The Tienanmen Paper is a collection of documents depicting the inner-workings and Chinese top leaders' decision on pulling in PLA (People's Liberation Army) into Beijing on June 3, 1989. These documents, which were secretively smuggled out of China, give a clear perspective on the events that lead to the massacre shortly after midnight on June 4, 1989. <br />While the book does not add on to what we already know about the Tienanmen massacre, it does give us a feel for how decision-making works at the very lop leadership. It clearly indicates that the turmoil split the top leadership into opposing fractions. The documents confirm the fact that dismissal of Party Secretary Zhao Ziyang, who was pro-reform in the Communist Party, was not a coincidence. He was removed from office upon his firm refusal to declare martial law and send in troops to drive students out of Tienanmen. <br />The leaders already had an idea of how to suppress any democratic sit-ins and riots as soon as students walked out from the classrooms and made their ways into Tienanmen square. A general who wanted to remain anonymous from a memoir commented, \\"Army is the Army. Power is what is most important to the rulers of this country. They don't care what foreigners think. They don't care what the students want. The demonstrators are threatening their power. That is what they are thinking about. So the students will die.\\" Decisions had long been made. They just had to get rid of any opposing efforts and those who opposed. Outsiders (foreigners and Chinese who live in remote parts of the country) often think what they could not see and could not hear wasn't there. And Tienanmen Paper has filled this gap.  Every gesture,voice, meeting, decision made by the leaders is laid bare. <br />We saw gunfire, screaming, and fighting. We saw students falling, laying in blood. We saw tear gas and rubber bullets. We saw trucks and tankers sitting bumper to bumper. We saw the officers in cars racing up and down the line supervising the caravan. We saw common people demanding the soldiers turn around and leave the city. We saw other people shaking their fists and denouncing the soldiers. We saw buses and vehicles burning at intersections, windows of apartment buildings flickering. But one thing we miss: the troops called into Beijing by Yang Sheungkun, or the 38th company of the PLA, has no clue of the democratic movement started by students. The troops were brought in from some remote province of the country and they knew they had to listen to the order from above. As one bystander recalled, \\"The soldiers made no eye contact with the street crowd. They looked absolutely clueless and blank.\\" This confirms the invaluable contribution by The Tienanmen Paper, a book that gives us idea of how top leaders monopolize decision-making. 4.0 stars.	2003-03-08
US	51341166	R3LZZDRLP9N2EC	0471390194	166806748	Daughter of China: A True Story of Love and Betrayal	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Not really a love story; a true, true depiction of Red China	The subtitle may cause confusion. Many readers have complained about this book not being a love story the title claims. Reviewers question Xu Meihong's motive in marrying Professor Larry Engelmann. \\"She loves him, or does she?\\" Comments like this flood the reviews. Love and romance aside, *Daughter of China* tells of all the oppressive, threatening, secretive, manipulative practices of the Communist Party. Much of what happened to Meihong and her family, as she has noted, is what foreigners don't see and beyond their imagination. \\"It doesn't mean it's not there just because you don't see it.\\" <br />Xu Meihong grew up during the upheaval of the Proletarian Cultural Revolution and was admitted into the PLA (People's Liberation Army) at the age of 17. Selected as one of the 12 Pandas, she was among the country's sharpest women matriculated at the Institute of Interational Relations in Nanjing. She became a member of the elite intelligence corps and was told to spy on visiting American professor Larry Engelmann. As Meihong got to know the professor, she realized \\"this man has nothing to do with breaching Chinese national security\\" and Meihong's old loyalties to the Red party began to shake. She started to \\"have compunction\\" for Larry and tried to protect him from being pursued or possibly arrested by the Chinese government. When their friendship was discovered, Meihong was arrested, beaten, interrogated, and imprisoned by PLA Colonel. She decided that she would not sacrifice Larry in exchange for her own life. When told to sign a forged petition that falsely accused Larry of raping her, Meihong firmly took her ground and refused. Professor Engelmann was asked to leave the country. Upon expulsion from the Institute and thus the PLA, Xu Meihong was sent back to her village in Lishi in Jiangsu province. She was forevered marked by the government and that \\"there will never be a normal life for her in China again.\\" Her dossier will forever her everywhere she settles down. <br />This book is stunning in the way how Meihong Xu has disclosed some of the darkest PLA practices. She recalled the warning given to all incoming cadets about keeping everything confidential: the Institute's location, phone number, contents of the courses, modes of training, etc. Yet in this book she has gone through even the details of their rifle practice, how the cadets were required to work the AK-47 blindfolded because enemies could spew an attack at night. She talks about her interrogation by PLA colonel in gory details. \\"The truth, is what [the PLA colonel] say it is. It is not for you to decide or to judge.\\" Therefore, if one proclaims innocence upon his arrest, it will only compound the seriousness of one's wrongdoing.<br />The book also depicts power struggle wintin the Communist Party. The country finds itself at a point where the old conservatives, those who disfavor party reforms, conflict with the younger party reformists. When Meihong was arrested for her association with a foreigner (which affects national security as the PLA claims), the colonel wanted desperately to use her and her relationship with Larry to unmask, discredit and purge a clique of PLA officers who had been working quietly for broad reforms in the military. <br />If Anchee Min's *Red Azalea* has been a joltingly honest account of life under Mao China, *Daughter of China* is an extraordinary tale of how a PLA officer with a bright, promising future battles turns herself into an enemy of the PLA and battles for her love and freedom. Meihong had seen firsthand how the Party and the PLA used deception and lies to confound its own and to turn friend against friend and lover against lover, even family member against family member. In a sense, *Daughter of China* is more realistic than *Red Azalea*. The tales about Meihong's aunt Lingdi being purged, her mother working far northeast during the famine to support the family, her great-grandfather being dropped in boiling oil again testifyto the austere, oppressed lives of common people under Mao China. 4.3 stars.	2003-03-05
US	51341166	R1ADDAQYMAJB6B	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Sarcastic; funny in a ludicrous way	The Nanny Diaries is a novel (hmm...that means it's fiction) authored by former nannies who want to blend in their own experiences in a story. So (to those who gave this book negative reviews) please relax and have fun. I personally find this book a heap of fun to read. It's funny in a ludicrous way. It's ridiculous because things mentioned in this book actually do happen among the high-end families. I believe the book is a collection of nanny experiences as the disclaimer clearly states that the authors have worked for over 30 New York City families. So keep in mind that every little situation in this book attributes not only one but also all of the 30 some families for which the authors work. <br />&quot;Nanny&quot; is looking for money to make her rent while finishing her final year at NYU.  Through previous connection and specifically the &quot;Parents League&quot;, she gets a job as a nanny looking after Mr. and Mrs. X's son Grayer. She is to replace the predecessor who actually &quot;dared to ask for a week leave to visit her ill sister in Australia.&quot; Immediately Nanny is drawn to little Grayer who has been neglected by his parents. Nanny's daily schedule will begin as Grayer wakes up and gets ready for school. Mrs. X, on the other hand, does none of the house chores let alone taking care of her own son. Mrs. X is busy shopping for the haute couture, planning dinner parties (to flaunt her luxurious apartment as well as to hopefully bring her workaholic husband home and spend time with her), and volunteering on serving committees. In addition to the explicit and detailed demands Mrs. X requests of for Grayer, Nanny also busies herself running Mrs. X's errands, which could be anything from dropping off/picking up dry-clean to picking up a heap of stuffs from all over town for an exotic 30-guest house party. After all, Mrs. X has no sense of time as she repeatedly shows up couple hours past the time she says she should be home. Nanny, at one occasion, literally has 15 minutes to get to her thesis exam. <br />OK this is best part of the book if you haven't found it laughable: Nanny escorts Grayer to a Halloween party dressing up as Teletubby. And while taking Grayer to the restroom, Nanny runs into Mr. X who is having a hot quickie with his secretary! To tell (Mrs. X) or not to tell, that is the question! She is left to question whether she should report his infidelity to Mrs. X who has no clue that her husband has been lying to her about working late. As time goes by Grayer dreads seeing his parents and covets their attention. On her days off Nanny would avoid picking up the phone as Mrs. X would call and make her run extra errands. Nanny's phone would incessantly blink as her voice-mail inundates with messages from Mrs. X. Nanny wants to quit but feels obligated for poor little Grayer to whom nobody really has time for let alone caring for him. <br />You should read on when Nanny tells the tale of a family trip that ends in deep frustration. You should read on to see how angry and jealous Mrs. X become when she finds out about Nanny's going out with a guy who lives in the same building. I will not give away the end of the story. Nanny Diaries is certainly a page-turner. It will make you laugh but at the same time sympathize for Nanny, and more deeply little Grayer. It brings forth the concern about how our children should be raised properly. Take it as sarcasm. And no, I don't think all the extremes the authors mention in this novel will happen in just one family. 4.3 stars.	2003-03-03
US	51341166	R2EZMT59M0Q6X3	0425147762	980393930	Red Azalea	Books	4	40	41	N	N	Powerful, joltingly honest account of life under Mao	Anchee Min has created a powerful sense of life in China during its darkest period: the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution. The year was 1966, revolution powered by the Red Army just began to crumple the country. 9-year-old Min was the most excellent student in her grade for her revolutionary mind. She had memorized Mao's Little Red Book, secretively criticized her parents' reactionary (counter-revolutionary) behaviors, sang heroic operas raved by Jiang Ching (Madame Mao) and was selected as the head of student Red Guard. Utterly ignorant of the revolution's poignant consequence, Min, afterall, was too young to understand the meaning of public criticisms and purges. Manipulated and brainwashed by the Party members at her school, Min openly criticized and betrayed her most favorite teacher by accusing her as being a spy from the United States. <br />At the age of 17, Min was told that she needed to be a model to the graduates as a student leader. The ambitious I'll-go-where-Chairman-Mao's-finger-points attitude stirred Min's heart and made her eager to devote herself in hardship at the Red Fire Farm. Upon cancelling her residency in Shanghai, along with million other youths Min joined the Advanced 7th Company to plant rice in leech-filled water along the eastern coast. There Min finally caught up with the terror and hardship of Mao's ambitious revolution. She befriended with and eventually worshippped and fell in love with Party commander Yan. Here Min contrasted the dark horror of Communist China, the purges and the criticisms with her own desirous passion. She picked fight with the deputy commander Lu who diligently sought to catch Yan's mistakes. The secret meeting with Yan at the brick factory, the fondling and cuddling in bed under the mosqutio net-such personal desires are politically dangerous that the culprit could be rewarded a death sentence. Min was then engaged in an affair with the \\"Supervisor\\" who directed the revolutionary film Red Azalea. After Cultural Revolution and the arrest of Jiang Ching, pro-Revolutionist like Min was labeled. She continued to work as a set clark at the film studio. The Party sent her younger sister Coral to the Red Fire Farm in order to fulfill the peasant quota for each family. She was not granted sick leave even though she caught TB. \\"My despair made me fearless\\", noted Min. She decided to fight for permission to leave not only the film studio but the country. The year was 1984. At the age of 27, Min immigrated to the United States. *Red Azalea* is her powerful memoir-a joltingly honest testimony to life in China under Mao. The prose is haunting, heartbreaking, and erotic. 4.1 stars.	2003-02-28
US	51341166	R17OOWN84PLMF4	0880015829	318982614	The Sheltering Sky	Books	4	7	13	N	N	Fine writing; challenging reading	The scope of Paul Bowles' *The Sheltering Sky* is two-fold: on the outside it is the tale of three young Americans traveling around North Africa after the World War. In a deeper level it is really a terrifying, exhilarating journey into the depth of human existence. Kit and Port Moresby's marriage was jeopardized. They came to the desert to escape from civilization, to escape from one another. The couple had never settled down in any one place, but rather they casually intended to move from one place to another in Africa in order to avoid places that had been touched by wars. The couple was also joined by a mutual friend Tunner and with whom emarked on a journey into the forbidden Sahara. What this book strikes me the most is the way Bowles examines the ways in which Americans apprehend an alien culture (as well as alien land). The very same apprehension at the end in a sense destroyed these Americans. As they emarked on their journey, further and further away from civilization, we can see how the cultural superiority of these fellow Americans dominate their thoughts-how they not trust the locals, the Arabs, the porters of town, the butler at inns. The journey forced these Americans to push the limits of human life. Each one of them was touched by the unspeakableemptiness and impassive cruelty of the desert. I don't want to give away the ending of the tale but this is definitely not a page-turner as you, the reader, will have to emark yourself on this journey and think about the limits of human reason and intelligence, about the powerlessness in controlling our fate. Beautiful prose, challenging reading. 4.2 stars.	2003-02-19
US	51341166	R2W7PZ31XCCWX4	0439136369	667539744	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban	The third of the series focuses on Harry's third year at Hogwarts. The school year does not get off to a good start, Harry runs away from his aunt's and uncle's house after blowing up Auntie Marge! Without Uncle Vernon's signtaure on the permission slip, Harry is not allowed to go to the wizard's village Hogmenade with the other students. Upon arrival of Hogwarts, Harry finds out about Sirius Black, one of the most feared of Voldemort's cohorts, is after him. Sirius Black escaped from Azkaban, the wizard's prison, but left a clue as to where he was headed. At the same time, Harry and his friends Ron, Hermione found out about how Sirius might be the one who betrayed Harry's parents, James and Lily. In this third of the Harry Potter series, we come to know more about Harry's parents and why Voldemort persistently goes after Harry. The final Quidditch match also approaches as everyone keeps a close watch on Harry as the dementors lurk around Hogwarts. Meanwhile, Hagrid's favorite pet Buckybeak faces to be executed after hurting Draco Malfoy. How would Harry cope with the life-threatening encounter with Black as predicted by Professor Trelawney of Divination class? Book 3 is the best so far in terms of a storyline full of suspenses, mysteries, horrors, and twists-and-turns. Another good read! 4.3 stars. <br />Revised 2/14/2003	2003-02-16
US	51341166	RDFA304ETRMYG	0060931949	418557027	House Made of Dawn (Perennial Classics)	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Beautiful prose that is difficult to follow	The strategy with which this book is written is unique. You will not know the background of the story until the very end. You will bump into so many characters because the author switches narrations from time to time. *House Made of Dawn* tells you to a journey of a Native American named Abel who struggles with drug and alchol problems. He lives in two worlds in which he battles constantly for his true identity. The narration switches back and forth between several characters throughout the novel. The main story line, which is of Abel, intertwines with all these characters. From time to time, you would have to slow down and back trek to see if you have missed something. The first time I read I got lost in the midst of all the different characters, contending to piece the whole story together. Once you have surmounted the intricate relationships, the book is a charm. Beautiful prose. 3.5 stars.	2003-02-05
US	51341166	R3NM5BFONJWQ69	0446525731	870710129	The Christmas Train	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Different kind of holiday spirit that warms your heart	I've never read any of David Baldacci's thrillers but this fine departure definitely scores. *The Christmas Train* tells the tale of a journey home in time for Christmas. Tom Landon is a weary and cash-strapped journalist who is banned from flying in the United States after an overly probing search at the LaGuardia airport security check-point causes him to blow his top. Now Amtrak would be his only option to arrive in Los Angeles in time to spend the holiday with his girlfriend. To finance the luxurious cross-the-country train ride (which includes a delux single room and dining services), Tom pitches a story about a train ride done during Christmas season. As soon as the journalist boards the homeward train, Tom meets a ridiculously eccentric but humane cast of passengers. Agnes Joe, an old woman in her late fifties, seems to know all of the train crew and stewardesses and fellow riders but nobody knows why she rides the train so often. Tom also meets someone whom he suspects as a fugitive. The head stewardess Martha brings in an enchanting African American children choir to carol for the train. An avalanche changes Christamas plans of everyone onboard as horrendous snowballs block both ways of the tunnel. Lives of those onboard are on the edge as the trapped train runs out of heat and the last bit of fuel. For Tom, it turns to be an opportunity for rekindling romance spraks with his ex Elanor, or Ellie as they venture out to the cruel blizzard in hope of soliciting help for the train. This book will warm your heart, every turn of the page will make you laugh and tear. A wonderful read for Christmas season. A holiday charm. 4.2 stars.	2003-02-04
US	51341166	R3578SKNZU8RC2	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	2	25	37	N	N	&quot;To follow your dream&quot; Now what?	*The Alchemist* is a simple fable with no conventional plot. Santiago is an Andalusian shepherd boy who one night dreams of a distant treasure in the Egyptian pyramids. He deliberately leaves Spain and starts a thousand-mile journey to Egypt to literally follow his dream. As promised in his unqiue dream, Santiago bumps into &quot;spiritual messengers&quot; to point him to the right direction and more importantly, to spur him on toward his destination. Santiago then meets a well-read Englishman, in whose book he learns about the alchemists: men who believed that if a metal were heated for many years, it would free itself of all its individual properties, and what was left would be the &quot;Soul of the World.&quot; Eventually Santiago meets a true alchemist who emboldens him to stay true to his dream. To me this book seems a little monotonous and at points I am in fact bored by the reading. I read it at the first place out of the curiosity that this very novel has been translated to more than 40 languages. The question of whether this story of simplicity is dazzling or boring leaves entirely to the readers. What I really hate is that after spending all the time reading I am left with an ambiguous ending. 2.5 stars.	2003-02-04
US	51341166	R1272KUD14OG4L	0446608386	298802765	Killing Me Softly	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Tale of Obsession	*Killing Me Softly* is a tale of a young woman who gives up everything for a lustful, obsessed, sexually desirous relationship with a stranger she happens to run into on the street of London. Alice Loudon lives a life many envy: a job that brings in huge bucks, a stable loving relationship with her boyfriend Jake, a warm circle of friends she calls Crew. Yet everything changes the day she meets a stranger crossing the street. Impulsively Alice wrecks this old, safe life for an obsessed affair with Adam Tallis.  She plunges into a deep realm of sexual pleasure and eroticism, into an insulated world that revolves around only herself and Adam. All ties are broken as if she no longer needs anyone but Adam Tallis. Ironically, Alice knows fairly little about her new love besides his body. As she unveils, layer by layer, Adam's troubled past Alice also found out about how this sudden obession has threatened her safety, sanity and life. Thriller. 3.8 stars.	2003-01-29
US	51341166	RDIL1ISO9GMYR	0446610399	717558254	The Rescue	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another romantic page-turner with an adventurous touch	If you like previous releases *Message in a Bottle&quot; and *A Bend in the Road*, you would have fallen into this one as well. Consistent with all his novels, Nicholas Sparks conveys the message of the greatest commitment of all: to love someone forever. Volunteer fireman Taylor McAden is driven to horrendous and heroic risks to save lives. When he set out to search for Denise's 7-year-old son Kyle, Taylor never imagined that the encounter with the mother and son would force him to deal with fear, bitterness, and the troubled past in his heart. This resuce requires Taylor to open doors to his past slammed shout by pain. Will Taylor be able to overcome this pain with the help of Denise? Sparks has introduced and developed characters fully as well as their feelings, emotions, and thoughts. Sparks' writing is stirring once again. You'll be deeply moved at the part where Taylor found Kyle after the car accident. Sparks stirs our heart-strings again! Good read. 4.5 stars.	2003-01-24
US	51341166	R1HUX7HMUW49SD	0375400052	187052723	The Married Man	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Beautiful, subtly rendered and tragic	*The Married Man* is a memoir and tribute to Edmund White's lover who died of AIDS. The book captures reader's attention as soon as one reads the first paragraph. Austin Smith is an American furniture scholar living in Paris. Pushing fifty and without love, at the gym he met Julien who claimed to be bisexual. The trivial chance encounter gradually matures into a relationship of unspeakable intensity. The sero-discordant couple flee to Providence, Rhode Island as Austin secures a teaching post. White explores with details the challenges of this couple who root from different cultural values, ages, incomes, and languages. Problems aggrevate when AIDS-stricken ex-lover can't stand the current sweetheart. White's prose is beautiful, eatil-oriented, and root-to-the-spot. White would never forfeit the details that build a relationship: things like speech etiquettes, a nickname, a provoked thought, an argument, frustration caused by age difference, even jealous thought. As Austin found out about Julien's AIDS status, the couple deals with Julien's imminent death with a low but sober profile. From Providence, in a quest to save both health and happiness, they traveled to Venice to sun-drenched Key West and eventually Morroco. White delves deeper into human emotion and motivation than any author who writes fiction on AIDS. What he reveals here between Austin and Julien is not always pleasant or expected, but rather subtly rendered and poignant. Medical condition and the turmoil from which is delved fully: euthanasia, taxopasmosis, etc. The novel is heatbreaking yet stands as an honest account of the love story between two courageous men. 3.8 stars.	2003-01-24
US	51341166	R2RXCG065FXJSB	0060511311	221012386	Walking on Air: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Tragic and poignant but surprisingly good read	I'm somewhat surprised about how little noise this novel creates among gay and lesbian reading community. The book was released in late October 2002 and no reviews are posted on here. Anyway, I stumbled across this elegantly-covered novel at a local store, flipped over several pages and decided to adopt it for the holiday reading list. The book was both revealing and compelling from the beginning: Forty-year-old William Addams is dying of the incurable epidermics. Cynical and estranged from his family, William is consumed and burdened by the fear that he will be abandoned by lover Henry and best friend Susan. As William's illness worsens, he struggles with fear of dying, battles with the thoughts of being maimed, and on top of that fear of losing his cloest friends. What William wants is for Henry and Susan to persevere until they take him home to his beloved house by the coast to die. William's desperation focuses on testing his friends' loyalty and playing with their sympathy. From page one you will already have known the outcome of the story, yet the author has chronicled the course of the disease in a very humane fashion. It is as if we can feel William's physical pain and experience the pang of his fear. The book is disturbing to read as you go on, but it is filled with dazzling beauty. The prose is cut-to-the-point. 4.1 stars.	2002-12-04
US	51341166	R30C60PJ44R2HP	0385508417	999720718	Skipping Christmas	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Class Christmas tale for modern times	Call it a warm Christmas tale or simply a farce. John Grisham has delivered a short novel unlike any of his previous works. First of all, it's funny above all. Luther Krank comes up with the idea of skipping Christmas altogether as he and his wife are caught in traffic under the blizzard. Their freshly-out-of-grad-school daughter Blair is off to Peru on Peace Corps for a year. Luther quickly preoccupies with the idea of taking a 10-day cruise to the Caribbeans with his wife Nora. Now that means no crowded malls, no jostling through grocery shop, no corny office parties, no calendars from the town police department, no fruitcakes from the fire bureau, no wasted unwanted presents, no Christmas tree, no Frosty and decorations.  But, as the Kranks are about to discover, skipping Christmas unveils incredible consequences-including being labeled as &quot;display of selfishness&quot; by their neighbors on Hemlock Street. Their house would be the only one among the 42 in the block with no Frosty and decorations which finishes with a 6th at the decoration contest. This book is a page turner but more importantly it offers a preposterous (but funny) look at the holiday chaos and frenzy. 3.7 stars.	2002-11-22
US	51341166	R3QDMCKQ3X7FSM	0446606812	372605776	Message in a Bottle	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Romantic, Poignant, and Touching	Nicholas Sparks knows how to tug at a reader's heartstrings. &quot;Message in a Bottle&quot; is a romantic, poignant, and touching tale of Theresa Osbourne and Garret Blake. Theresa, a 36-years-old single mother, works as a syndicate columnist in Boston. She randomly spots and picks up a bottle within which a letter Garret writes to his wife Catherine. Deeply touched by the love note, Theresa begins a quest for the man who concocts such sentimental words. She somehow secures another two letters with the same penmanship from a woman and a college professor. After much back-and-forth phone calls and internet searching, Theresa finally locates Garret Blake, who owns a diving shop in Wilmington. She decides to fly down and get to know this man. This tale is about overcoming the fear to love and letting go of the past. You will be touched by Garret's ever-changing feelings for Catherine and Theresa's perseverance to make the relationship work with Garret. Read for yourself. It's a page turner but you also want to absorb every tiny bit of emotion and sentiment emitted from Sparks' prose. Grab a cozy seat, have a drink, and begin a journey of love that will stir your heart. The ending is poignant yet you will always want to come back and read it again in the future. Good read. 4.5 stars.	2002-11-19
US	51341166	RMDV5HRVRJDBP	0446611867	916864624	A Bend in the Road	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Syrupy sweet not predictable tale of love and forgiveness	I don't usually read this type of book-syrupy sweet, sappy love story. But I find this one quite engrossing. Miles Ryan's life seems to lose purpose the day his wife Missy was killed in a hit-and-run accident. The only thing that keeps his life from falling apart is his 7-year-old son Jonah. Through a teacher-parent meeting Miles meets Jonah's teacher Miss Andrews, or Sarah, and things take a U-turn. They hit it off well and fall in love with each other. Sarah moves to New Bern in hope of starting over from a failed marriage, while Miles grieves for Missy and determines to bring the hit-and-run felon to justice. The story is syrupy sweet, sappy but predictable. For those who savor twist-and-turns don't read this book. Interwoven throughout the book are monologues of the hit-and-run felon which kind of provides suspense to the tale. What neither Miles and Sarah realizes is that they are held together by a shocking secret that will force them re-evaluate their relationship. Good read. 3.8 stars.	2002-11-15
US	51341166	R33R5ZAU9IM44J	0439139600	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The darkest of the series so far...	You will not know why J. K. Rowling names this 4th book of Harry Potter series Goblet of Fire until about a third of the book. Yes, Book 4 is so far the lengthiest (734 pages on paperback), but also the darkest and thrilled Harry Potter story. I have to confess my somehow de-escalated interest in the Qudditch World Cup at the beginning yet once I got over it, the book is no doubt a page-turner. Through a little dry in the coverage of the Qudditch World Cup, events occur during the match is by far the most important lead to what goes on later in the story. Harry Potter's 4th year at Hogwarts see the coming of a new Defense Against Drak Arts teacher Mad-Eye Moody who kindly rescues Harry at a couple occasions. The inter-house Qudditch championship is put on suspension as Hogwarts prepares itself to host the Triwizard Tournamnet. The whole storyline immediately picks up in suspense and twist-and-turns as soon as the champions from each of the three participating wizardry school are selected. What Harry never imagines is that Lord Voldemort utilizes the tournament to bring Harry closer to his mortal revenge scheme. Book 4 is by far the most entertaining and breath-taking installment of the Harry Potter series. It is to be read as a thriller. On a side note, you will also meet new characters like Rita Skeeter, a pest journalist who consistently puts up false accounts of Harry, Hermione, and Hagrid on the Daily Prophet. Good read. 4.8 stars	2002-11-12
US	51341166	R1M9YD74TXS8NO	0312979479	307844923	And Then There Were None	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Hold your breath; this book is cunning and dark...	This book will have a grasp on you as soon as you open it. Ten strangers, a curious assortment of men and women from different walk of life, are summoned as weekend guests to a private island off the coast of Devon by a mysterious man U. N. Owen. Each guest identifies common relations with Owen and yet Owen is unknown to them. It is a pre-announced murder spree. One by one, the house guests fall prey to an unknown, myseterious killer in the house, according to the scheme walled up in individual guest room-the rhyme of ten Indian boys. This is a book that fills up with suspense, panic, and thrill. As more house guests fall prey, the remnants escalate vigilance but also distrust. Speculation and doubts roam in of their mind. And only the dead are above suspicion. This is definitely a page turner. I finish the book in a day, with perspiring hands, accelerating pulse and a cloud of speculation in my mind. Good read. 3.3 stars.	2002-11-12
US	51341166	R2V963AGCSTGLO	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Disturbing yet beautiful prose	The storyline of this timeless Nabokov classics has been wide-known and controversial: pedaphile narrator Humbert Humbert tells the tale of how he pathetically infatuates with the nymphet. Well-educated and good-mannered, Humbert was born to the upper reach of European social strata. His father was a mixed French and Austrian descent who owned luxurious hotel on the Riviera. Young Humbert lives a joyous life until the loss of his puppy love Annabel who dies of typhus in Corfu. The excessive desire for Annabel's image rekindles when grown-up Humbert Humbert met 12-year-old Dolores Haze in America. Lolita, or &quot;Lo&quot;, as Humbert addressed her, is what Humbert called &quot;light of my life, fire of my loins&quot;. The scenes where Humbert Humbert contemplated a way to get Charlotte Haze (Lo's mother) out of the picture were brilliant. The scenes where Lo seduced Humbert Humbert to making out were equally impressive. Humbert Humbert's passion for little Lo simply reflected his infatuation for his lost love Annabel: obessive, devouring, doomed and addicted. Part I of the book devotes to Humbert Humbert's infatuation of the numphet; while the second half tells of Humbert and Lo's romping around the country. The entire book fills with passionate, explicit, and beautifully-written prose, page after page. Afer all, Lolita is more or less, a twisted kind of love story. It's a meditation on love as there is no tomorrow. In a sense, Humbert Humbert was portraited as a victim himself, toiled by the miserable memories of his lost love in adolescence.	2002-11-09
US	51341166	R3K3FIMI6VKIYC	0439136369	667539744	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - Best One So Far!	The third of the series focuses on Harry's third year at Hogwarts. The school year does not get off to a good start, Harry runs away from his aunt's and uncle's house after blowing up Auntie Marge! Without Uncle Vernon's signtaure on the permission slip, Harry is not allowed to go to the wizard's village Hogmenade with the other students. Upon arrival of Hogwarts, Harry finds out about Sirius Black, one of the most feared of Voldemort's cohorts, is after him. Sirius Black escaped from Azkaban, the wizard's prison, but left a clue as to where he was headed. At the same time, Harry and his friends Ron, Hermione found out about how Sirius might be the one who betrayed Harry's parents, James and Lily. In this third of the Harry Potter series, we come to know more about Harry's parents and why Voldemort persistently goes after Harry. The final Quidditch match also approaches as everyone keeps a close watch on Harry as the dementors lurk around Hogwarts. Meanwhile, Hagrid's favorite pet Buckybeak faces to be executed after hurting Draco Malfoy. How would Harry cope with the life-threatening encounter with Black as predicted by Professor Trelawney of Divination class? Book 3 is the best so far in terms of a storyline full of suspenses, mysteries, horrors, and twists-and-turns. Yet another good read! 4.75 stars.	2002-11-05
US	51341166	RVX3T6OTU26TW	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Chamber of Secrets	The 2nd year of Harry Potter at Hogwarts sees more adventures. The second of the Harry Potter scintillates readers with musch twist-and-turns and surprises. It is more or less a detective plot in the wizardry world. Piece by piece, Harry and his friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger probed identity of the Heir of Slytherin through traces of evidence. Who launched the spree of Muggle-born attacks? Who turned the Hogwarts students into stone? What kind of monster stands behind the Chambers of Secrets? Who kept the Very Secret Diary and how did it end up in Hogwarts? The three friends unveiled, little bit little, the mystery of the Chamber and trapped into unprecedent danger. The element of suspense makes story interesting to follow. Dobby, the impish Malfoy family house-elf, warned Harry not to go back to Hogwarts at the beginning makes it very difficult for me to put the book down! I rate this second of the series 4.5 stars. Another good read.	2002-10-25
US	51341166	R1K1XH8S02G3LI	0385489854	252029330	The Lily Theater: A Novel of Modern China	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Closer Look at The Chinese Cultural Revolution	The story tells of Lian, a 12-year-old girl who accompanies her mother, a history professor at the Teacher's University of Beijing, to a pungent reeducation camp in 1972, the time when Cultural Revolution was at its full swing. Despite the horrid living conditions at the camp, Lian never imagined that she will receive an education from some of the most prominent scholars who were detained at the camp along with her mother. These teachers of all disciplines: mathematics, chemistry, language and literature, took upon themselves to share what they know with young Lian. Lian summarized what she learned from the scholars and delivered \\"lectures\\" to frogs and crickets at the pond which she dubbed \\"The Lily Theater\\" near the camp site. When she learned behind the camp walls opened her eyes to the lies behind political propaganda and helped her mend her relationship with best friend Kim. Wang's writing style is plain staright-forward. The novel tends to drag toward the end though nevertheless gives a closer look at life during and after the notorious Cultural Revolution. 3.4 stars.	2002-10-23
US	51341166	RGJ6MEY8D0J2S	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Engaging, Enjoyable Read	I picked up Harry Potter and reread the book couple years after the debut release. I have to mention that I have not yet seen the movie because I want to save it as a surprising experience. Winning acclaims from all over the world and across all age groups, Harry Potter is an engaging, enjoyable read. The opening of the story already captured my attention. The many letters delivered to Harry in the cupboard under the stairs, revelation of Potter's identity, the only baby survived under You-Know-Who's attack, the Diagon Alley, the sorting hat... Second part of the story builds up with an element of suspense, adventures, and the battle again the Dark Side. Though it was somehow unconvincing that 11-year-old kids like Harry, Ron, and Hermonie could have fought the troll, played the magic chessboard and battle the evil, Harry Potter has proven to be one of the most engaging stories in our lifetime. It has been said that movie was not as well-done as the book. It's reasonable that not all the tiny details from the book can be stuffed into a less-than-3-hour screenplay. I recommend everyone to immerse into the magic experience of Hogwarts. Good read.	2002-10-22
US	51341166	R3BFBKOW73VUVH	0060002433	494109901	Sons of Heaven: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Creative Yet Convincing Historical Fiction	The Tienanmen crackdown in 1989 still makes my heart tremble. The book cover jacket showing a man confronting in front of the tank stirs me. Cheng's debut novel is a historical fiction interwoven with three parties: The dissident (Xiao-Di, meaning little brother), the soldier (Lu), and the comrade (the late Deng Xiaoping). The novel traced events leading to the Tienanmen masscre and the pursuit of fugitive and student protest leaders afterwards. The book brings alive struggles of common \\"laobaishung\\" (peasants) families and the their toil for democracy. Cheng also cunningly humanize the former Communist leader Deng Xiaoping. <br />Cheng has done a phenomenonal job in bridging these three characters together. Little brother Xiaodi, the once study-aboard elite, becomes infatuated with the democratic student movement and confronts in front of tanker. Xaiopi later on becomes fugitive accused of overturning the Communist Party.  Lu, Xiaodi's older brother, serves on the 38th Troop of the People Liberation Army, raids through his grandparents' house and remote village in search of the suspect. Comrade Deng is portraited more as humanistic than many have thought. His interaction with Pufang, his immobile son, makes him somewhat more likable. A good read.	2002-10-19
US	51341166	R1XWRVYPCHCOQ8	0061097314	842706595	The Bean Trees: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Love, Compassion, Friendship, Persistence	Taylor Marietta Greer grew up in rural Kentucky (Pittman County) hoping to avoid pregnancy, motherhood, and getting away from home.  When she ventured out with great ambition and a barely-working, cantankerous car, life took a whole different turn.  Some woman at the Oklahoma Cherokee nation abandoned three-year-old, American Indian girl Turtle and Taylor, for the first time, met the complication of life.  Upon arriving in Tucson, Arizona, Taylor realized she must come to terms with motherhood and settling down.  She was hired by Mattie who owned the Jesus is Lord Tires Company and became roommates with Lou Ann, a woman divorced by her husband Angel.  Taylor spent the first half of her life avoiding motherhood and tires, and later she counted them as blessings.  The Bean Trees is a book of determination, compassion, and love.  It's a quick read that will warm your heart and make you sniffle.  Through raising Turtle, Taylor learned that she could never protect the child from the world.  What would be interesting, maybe even in the long run, is to share her life with the kid and give Turtle her best effort.  The Bean Trees is the first book I read written by Barbara Kingsolver.  Her storytelling magic absorbed me completely from the beginning.  I could not put the book down and read cover-to-cover.  Great tale on love and friendship, abandonment and belonging.	2002-04-13
US	51341166	RL1VME259D6U1	0316730475	901238793	Dumpling Soup	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Celebration of Cultures	Jama Kim Rattigan's vivid, volorful picture book brings us to the Hawaiian islands.  Women in a Korean family gather together and celebrate New Year.  As part of a family tradition, the cheerful clan make dumplings for the feast.  Seven-year-old Marisa is old enough to help out with the wrappings.  Little Marisa, however, worries about the shape of her dumplings and feels insecure about how her concoction might not measure up with other dumplings.  Marisa's Granny decides to cheer up and encourage her little princess.  Granny features Marisa's dumplings as starters at the dinner table on New Year's Day. Dumpling Soup is more than a picture book-it is a celebration of cultures that have rooted in the Hawaiian Islands: Chinese, Korean, Japanese, and Hawaiians.	2002-04-12
US	51341166	R2TM8XA8X8MVRV	1855328933	852654620	Boeing 747-400: The Mega-Top (Osprey Civil Aircraft)	Books	5	0	4	N	N	Boeing 747-400: The Most Beautiful Aircrafts	The Megatop is actually a registered trademark of Singapore Airlines, which along with Cathay Pacific Airways and Japan Airlines, operate the largest fleet of Boeing 747-400s.  The cover of this spectacular book shows a 747-400 owned by Cathay Pacific Airways.  Since its first delivery in late 1960s, the Boeing 747 family had evolved into many variations: the 747-100, 747-200, 747-200 Freight, 747-300, 747-300 Extended Upper Deck (also known as the Bigtop), 747-SP (the shorter version), 747-400, and 747-400 Freight.  In this volume, Shaw has written the indiers of this modern jetliner.  The coverage features planning, development, certification, survey of operators, technical specifications, and ***PLENTY*** of pictures (both exterior and interior) of the jetliners.  The pictorial also includes information of airlines operation.  I personally think that the 747-400 series represents the most efficient and anesthetic piece of flying equipment.  The architectual beauty of the aircraft surpasses any of its counterparts.  The small flap that extend and tilt at the tip of the wings distinguish the 400 series from the rest of the family.  No other models has such distinct feature and architecture.  Think about how the Airbus 340, the Boeing 767, the Boeing 777-they all look alike.  In this pictorial, the beauty of the Boeing 747-400 jetliner is captured in numerous pages of colored photos.  I highly recommend the book for gift.  Aviation enthusiasts must have.	2002-04-10
US	51341166	RFZJIWDIT90A9	0760306990	18741249	Boeing 737 - 300 to 800 (Airliner Color History)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great Pictures...Waiting for B737-900	Boeing 737 amounted to the largest sales of commercial jetliners in history.  The short-ranged series has served the industry for over 30 years since it premiered in 1967.  In this volume abound with colored pictures, Shaw had written an inside-out coverage for the proliferative models.  Shaw included a detailed production history of the 737-800 model, the latest version of the family until the inaugural of 737-900 in late 2001.  Numerous colored pictures of the aircrafts luxuriate the book.  There is detailed information under every caption.  Several featured captions (including the book cover) show the aircrafts belonged to the Oakland-based Southwest Airlines, known for its all-737 fleet (over 350 aircrafts).  The end of the pictorial also includes detailed account on all current 737 operators and carriers.  Why 4 stars?  I expect more technical specification.  Author might consider putting in more technical info in the next update with the new 737-900 model.	2002-04-10
US	51341166	R25BCHO022KKXS	1882663438	701027564	Airbus A340 (ABC Airliner)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	I Want More Colored Pictures	Airbus A340 is so far the largest commercial jetliner model ever built by Airbus Industry before the completion of the A3XX.  A340 is the most technologically advanced commercial jetliner to date.  The aircraft was completely designed on a computer.  In this volume, Birtles gave an insider of this giant plane, main rivl to the Boeing 777 in its similar size, seating capacity and range.  This book includes coverage of flight tests and pilot reports.  The book also contains the latest A340-500 and 340-600 versions which are known as Airbus 343 among the airlines.   Birtles' coverage also comes with numerous black-and-white pictures.  Why only 4 stars?  I want more colored pictures of the Airbus giant.	2002-04-09
US	51341166	R1DDNDMDISV9P5	0760305811	642406402	Boeing 777: Jetliner for a New Century (Airliners in Color)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Title Says It All	Philip Birtles has done aviation lovers a great favor by writing one of the most detailed and picture-intensive books for the newest Boeing jetliner.  Birtles traced the planning, design, and development of the Boeing 777 models.  The pictorial covers the Boeing 777-200, 777-300, and the long-range 777 models in operation.  The book also has special features on technical details such as the jet engine, engine pod, vertical stabilizer, horizontal stabilizer, spoilers, flap, sound suppressor and thrust reverser.  The book concludes with coverage on the first Boeing 777 delivery.  Great gift idea.  A must for fans.	2002-04-09
US	51341166	R1HVKD0PRDUGXR	0760300917	954537683	Boeing 777 (Enthusiast Color)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Informative and Eye-Pleasing But...	Guy Norris and Marker Wagner come together and present us a very informative pictorial on Boeing 777.  The pictures are breath-taking.  The prose traced back to the jetliner's planning, testing, certification, and current operation.  What I am not pleased with the book is that it lacks info on carriers that operate the aircrafts, workings from the deck, and pictures of the interior.  I do giver merit to the marvelous colored pictures of the aircrafts in this book.  ***Some quick facts of the aircraft:  the Boeing 777 can fly nonstop for 16 hours.  The seating capacity is around 325-380.  The major operators of Boeing 777 are Singapore Airlines, Cathay Pacific Airways (based in Hong Kong) and our very own United Airlines which flies daily nonstop from San Francisco to London and Paris on Boeing 777.	2002-04-09
US	51341166	R3R7BP47IJ32F	0375706410	663303744	Waiting: A Novel	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Love Story That Transcends Cultural Barriers	Ha Jin's Waiting invites readers into the post-War China where predetermined marriages still prevailed.  It was the time when divorce was not even an option.  Anyone who tried to divorce was labeled anti-revolution, heartless, and cruel.  The court rarely granted divorce but tried its best to repair the marriage.  A man abided by his parents' will and married a woman Shuyu whom he did not love and gave birth to a daughter. After finishing medical school,  Lin Kong served as a physician in the Revolutionary Army.  Lin was content with his tidy military life until he met and fell in love with Manna, one of the nurses at the army hospital. Regulations forbid an army officer to divorce without his wife's consent--until 18 years have passed, that is, after which he is free to marry again.  So year after year, every summer Lin Kong returned to the Goose Village to divorce his wife Shuyu.  Shuyu, a woman in her forties who looked like if she was sixty, had humiliating bound leg.  Her face withered.  She had been attentively taking care of Lin's parents who passed away before Lin met Manna.  Shuyu found favor in the eyes of villagers and the judge.  Madly in love with Manna, Lin also felt trapped in a marriage that embarrassed and repelled him.  Lin felt he could not bring Shuyu with him around his work.  Ha Jin has encompassed a wide range of truths and attitudes about human heart-Lin's insecurity and indecisiveness; Manna's jealousy and Shuyu's faithfulness.  I was completely mistaken for what the title of the book really means until the very end of the novel.  The meaning of &quot;waiting&quot; is in fact two-fold:  the 18-year wait for divorce is only the surfacing idea.  The true waiting that Ha Jin refers to is that of Lin's wife Shuyu.  She had waited for her husband to come to senses what he really desires and treasures in his life.  For 17 years in his life, Lin had been people-pleasing:  he tried to please Manna by divorcing his wife; he tried to please the fellowworkers by getting a more &quot;presentable&quot; companion.  Lin became blinded to who he really was.  You have to persist to the very end when the author takes a turn and surprises you with the ending.  I highly recommend this novel.	2002-04-05
US	51341166	R11LXOYHATCRDV	037541309X	749687762	Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress : A Novel	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Balzac ('s books) and the Little Chinese Seamstress	Sijie Dai's first novel is full of pleasant surprises.  A funny, touching, and engaging story: two boys are among hundreds and thousands exiled to remote villages for re-education during the infamous Chinese Cultural Revolution under Mao Tze Tung.  The narrator and his best friend, Luo, are accused of being sons of doctors.  At the times of Cultural Revolution, doctors, engineers, and scholars are guilty of being corrupted by Western culture and ideas.  Western arts and literature are subjects to governmental confiscation and burning.  The narrator and Luo find themselves in the distant village on Phoenix Mountain carting buckets of excrement up and down precipitous hills and working in maize fields.  They delight themselves in playing violin and spending time with the beautiful daughter of the local tailor.  The boys' life at the re-education village takes a surprising turn as they discover a hidden suitcase of Western classics in Chinese translation owned by Four Eyes.  For the first time in they lives the boys are exposed to the mystery of the outside world, especially the world of women, love, and sex as revealed to them by these Western writers day after day, page after page, book after book.  <br />The story is well written but somewhat short for development of the characters.  Luo's passion to transform the seamstress into an urban girl by reading to her Western classics is understandable.  The task however seems to be somewhat challenging.  Dai has given us a fairy tale with political allegory.  The ideas about how two boys exiled into some remote countryside for re-education ends up re-educating a mountain native the outside world simply seduces the reader and captures much attention.  For those who experienced the infamous Cultural Revolution, the novel comes to dear to the heart.  Sijie Dai has simply done an excellent job in elaborating such a bitter experience.	2002-04-03
US	51341166	R10YB9U6RDW18J	0385264585	251864942	The Beginning and the End	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Sad from Beginning to the End	Written in 1942-43, first published in Arabic in 1949 and English in 1956, THE BEGINNING AND THE END portraits the struggles of a middle-class Egyptian family.  The novel is a masterpiece of human compassion.  Mahfouz's adroit, in-depth delineation of each character has enlivened the character.  The widow, who is mother of four children, coped with the loss of her husband and poverty with stoic and unusual calmness.  The sexually repressed daughter persists through poverty-stricken life and degrades herself as dressmaker.  The family is indebted to the good-for-nothing eldest son Hassan who later on becomes narcotics trafficker and makes a living on a prostitute.  Hussein the modest son is the lonely fighter soldier of this novel.  Hussein discontinues his education after attaining baccalaureate and takes a job as a sixth-grade clerk in Tanta, away from Cairo.  Then the youngest Hassanein gets his feet into War College and promotes to be an officer.  Hassanein  struggles with climbing the social ladder but concurrently suffers from this inner guilt of how his poverty-stricken past might threat his chance of marrying the Bey's daughter.  So striking of the novel is its humanitarianism and sensitivity to human suffering that its tragic vision of life transcends the Egyptian locale and assumes universal significance.  It reflects with sympathy and well-balanced pathos the material, moral, and spiritual problems of an Egyptian petit bourgeois family confronted with poverty during the Second World War.  The novel is gloomy from beginning to end.  Mahfouz has woven in this novel human compassion through astute description of each character.  The never-ending misfortunes and humiliations of the Kamel family call us to sympathize.	2002-03-26
US	51341166	RMFKQZ78NI716	0966542142	942505246	Butterfly Lovers: A Tale of the Chinese Romeo and Juliet	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Classics in Chinese Literature	Previous reviews and editorial review have unfortunately given away what kind of a love story we shall expect in BUTTERFLY LOVERS.  I think it's a bummer when reviewrs ruin my reading pleasure.  Anyway, I won't give away too much of the plot.  BUTTERFLY LOVERS is the first English publication of the original work LIANG SHANBO AND ZHU YINGTAI, one of the classics that had accompanied history of China.  ZHU YINGTAI disguised herself as a man who lived under the same roof with a young scholor LIANG SHANBO for three years without revealing her true identity.  The lovers lived haplessly in a historical period in which socioeconomic status determined marriage.  The old Chinese saying reminds us &quot;the doorframe has to match the threshold&quot;.  Social status relentlessly determined the lovers' fate and wove a bitter-sweet tale that touched many souls generation after generation.  The original tale of LIANG SHANBO AND ZHU YINGTAI had been featured in numerous musical adaptations.  Violinist Vanessa Mae released a solo album on the original scores of LIANG SHANBO AND ZHU YINGTAI.  I would not give away the story since it would be your pleasure to figure out why LIANG SHANBO AND ZHU YINTAI are butterfly lovers.	2002-03-22
US	51341166	R3UQ1GEEOAAEQR	0452267749	844214273	Typical American (Contemporary Fiction, Plume)	Books	4	15	18	N	N	There Is No Such Thing As American Dream	Ralph, Helen, and Theresa immigrated from China to escape political instability in the post-War era.  The trio of young ambitious Chinese immigrants slowly transformed into everything they once despised in the typical American as they set out after their dreams and created their own suburban paradise.  Ralph, like many of his counterparts, struggled with his visa but mangaged to finished his PhD in mechanical engineering and obtained a university tenure.  Together with his wife Helen (introduced to him by his sister Theresa), the young couple set out to make the so-called \\"American dream\\" come way in all possible ways:  finding a split-level home in the suburbs of Connecticut, making huge bucks in fast food (America is such a fast food nation), walking dog and sending dog to training school, making excursions into adultery.  Theresa studied to become a doctor who later on engaged in an affair with a man.  Ironically, as the ambitious trio fulfilled their \\"American dream\\" (ahhhammm) they have become someone whom they despised in the first place-typical American:  the typical American no-good, typical American don't-know-how-to-get-along, typical American just-want-to-be-the-center-of-things, typical American no-morals, typical American use-brute-force, typical American just-dumb, typical American no-manners, and typical American eating-junk-and-not-healthy.  The trio began to adopt to more American vocabular but still retained their Chinese ways of thinking like \\"xiang ban fa\\"-think of a way.  In a way, the American dream has corrupted the trio.  Ralph became so money-oriented that he believed he can only fit in the society if he made good money.  If he couldn't make a lot of money, he would be dubbed Chinamen.  \\"Money, in this country, you have money, you can do anything.  You have no money, you are nobody.  You are Chinaman!  Is that simple!\\"  Even Helen, she allowed himself to engage in sexual quickie in her own house behind her husband's back with Grover Ding, who represented a typical American-born-Chinese that was not rooted in any traditional Chinese values.   Afterall, the American dream will never be the same again.  Gish Jen's writing has astutely portraited a typical immigrant experience through her witty style and choice of waords.  As a Chinese-American, I can deeply relate to the Chang's experience-the desire to fit in but at the same time the quest for prosperity, success, and respect.  The novel might seem funny but who can really understand immigrants' life struggles if not being one?	2002-03-22
US	51341166	R372SCSKJRC7V8	067003116X	215020323	Report from Ground Zero: The Story of the Rescue Efforts at the World Trade Center	Books	4	39	44	N	N	Sad but Needed...Take Your Time to Read	This is book is not easy to read.  It will pound your heart and make you broken.  When the two airplanes fatally hit the World Trade Center twin tower at 8:48 am and 9:03 am, history and landscape of this country changed eternally.  The assasination of beloved president John F. Kennedy defined the baby boomer generation.  September 11 strikes all of us and sadly defines our current generation with the same caliber.  Dennis Smith was among the first crew who arrived at ground zero and participated in the rescue efforts.  Smith is a retired firefighter who had been with the New York Fire Department for 18 years.  He has written a vivid and stunning account on the day-by-day rescue efforts at ground zero immediately after the attack.  Smith himself attended the injured and sifted through deris and rubbles for signs of life.  The book serves as a testimony as well as an honorable salutation to the policemen and firefighters who sacrificed their lives to the country.  Without these heroes, the casualties could have soared as high as 6000.  Smith's account is much needed but hard for anyone to take.  The account is needed so we, as Americans, can once again be unified and be bold against terrorism.  Shall the nation not come close and unify, those who have fought bravely up in the front, all the firefighters and policeman, they would have died for nothing.  Smith's report from the ground zero weaves together his own daily accounts, stories from other rescue members, and families that lost their loved ones on September 11.  This book fills with passion, tears, boldness, and a call for Americans to unified.  May God bless America.  United We Can Stand.	2002-03-21
US	51341166	R11SFBNUSC3IGI	1569472416	92517770	Smell: A Novel	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Interest in Reading Dies Off After p.70	The book starts off very appealing and down-to-earth:  a riot that broke out in Kenya had relentlessly killed her father, who was survived by the poor widow, twin brothers, and Leela.  Leela was sent aroad to Paris living with her uncle and aunt.  I think many readers would expect Leela somehow to reunite with her mother in England.  But instead it turns out to be a rambling account of some sexual exploits the main character Leela led.  Leela had an uncanny sense of smell: she can manipulate and combine different spices to stimulate magic chemistry.  She could smell a putrid odor evolving from her after sleeping with M Belaine, in whose house she served as an au pair.  Her mind would blur into a smell dominated by the smell of Philippe Lavelle.  She struggled herself and hid herself in the jostling Paris Metro in order to conceal her odor.  I think the writer has portraied and characterized different kinds of smells very thoroughly and use these smells as symbols.  But honestly I really don't like the story after Leela ran away and picked up by Mauve, who is obviously living as a whore.  I don't find any of the characters in this novel sympathetic maybe except for Olivier, whom I think is a pity.  I do not know if Leela really do love Olivier, or she just used him as a way to gain legal status in France.  I think the novel really let down women as Jha portraits the female characters as sexual slaves with no dignity.  Look at Mauve, Lotti.  Leela caught her uncle having lunch affair with three different women at the back of the grocery store.  Jha portraited women as being ugly:  Leela called Aunty Latha as \\"a mound of flesh\\".  Even Catherine Belaine, she is stupid, indiscrenible and arrogant.  It's so pathetic that none of the characters in this novel carries any positive, welcoming image.  I do not enjoy reading the book at all.	2002-03-20
US	51341166	R3BF83FK1CTKSE	0743225996	204425382	Get With the Program!: Getting Real About Your Health, Weight, and Emotional Well-Being	Books	4	146	156	N	N	Focus on Daily Little Victory	Interesting. When I picked up Bob Greene's GET WITH THE PROGRAM, the guidelines look familiar-this is almost exactly what my fitness friend told me to do few years ago to lose weight. GET WITH THE PROGRAM is a reiteration, reformulation of the basic \\"double E\\" principles we all know-eat healthy and exercise. So there is nothing new. But unlike another recent hot pick EAT MORE, WEIGHT LESS, Greene's program is more practical and will stimulate those who want to make a difference in their physique and lifestyle. <br />GET WITH THE PROGRAM has 4 stages that emphasize gradual change in eating and exercise habit. Phase 1 is easy but very little people will even try because of laziness and procrastination. Phase 1 includes exercises that get us going: some stretches, some aerobic exercises, some situps, and curls for couple times a week. By doing these exercises couple twice a week, we formulate a routine which builds a mindset not to give up. I call these daily little victories. We certainly can't just go to the gym and start lifting 300 pounds hoping to change our body metabolism. But aerobic and cardiovascular excersies can help retune our strength. Start with maybe 10 situps and curls then increase to 15, 20, then 25 a set and do 2 reps of sets. These are daily victories.<br />Phase 2 picks up the exercise and let you perform more sets. As the program progresses toward Phase 3 and 4, you will start changing the diet and watch what you're eating. Many people misunderstood about working out as burining fat. When you work out, you burn calories. Until you create a deficit of calories in diet, you will never get rid of body fat. When all calories from food have been consumed, then the body will go about the fat stored. So incorporating a diet to workout/exercise is the key. Greene's program will help you achieve this balance. I'm excited about how GET WITH THE PROGRAM has put into a written account of what my fitness friend had told me to do. From 195 lbs (5 feet 8 inchestall), I alternated between aerobics and cardiovascular execises with increasing repetition (the daily victories), changed the diet around to create deficit in calories (about a deficit of 600 calories a day, but 1 pound of fat equal 3500 calories), I started jogging after 2 months of aerboic and cardiovascular, I lost a total of 52 pounds and got down to 143 lbs in 8 months. Focus on the little victories, start the exercises and gradually increase the repetition to create endurance and strength. Change the diet completely, cut all high-fat food like junk food, McDonalds, desserts, high-carbohydrates like pasta and rice. Cut processed sugar products like sodas and ice cream. Drink lots of water and natural freshly sueezed juices. Many programs are out there in the markets like GET WITH THE PROGRAM, success depends on personal determination and perseverance.	2002-03-16
US	51341166	R3NE5OPDWMV5WD	0060959576	24780754	Eat More, Weigh Less: Dr. Dean Ornish's Life Choice Program for Losing Weight Safely While Eating Abundantly	Books	3	33	64	N	N	Nothing New	There has been a spree for fitness these days-health food stores flooded with people wanting to eat healthy and lose pounds, gym packed 24/7, an incredible outburt of fitness book + programs like the &quot;Power 90&quot;, &quot;Body for Life&quot;, &quot;8-Minute in the Morning to Fitness&quot; and yada yada yada.  Now we have &quot;Eat More, Weigh Less&quot;.  The title is sound and appealing-it's almost like too good to be true.  But there's really nothing new here.  It's the same-old same old trick that many have failed to keep up-change the diet, emphasize on high-fiber and abstain from fast food.<br />EAT MORE, WEIGH LESS shouldn't even be taken as a fitness program.  It provides no plan for you to follow and track the progress.  It is more like a vegetarian + vegan cookbook tailored for those who want to eat healthy and read food label at the grocery store.  Roughly one-fourth of the book devotes to talking about fitness and losing weights, while the remaining three quarters are all recipes.  And there is nothing secret or tricky about how to rid the belly:  stick with high-fiber, low-fat diets, while completely abstain from high-fat, high-cholesterol items.  The reason behind is simple:  high-fiber and low fat food actually clean out our bodies.  Oatmeals, 12-grain bread, vegetables, fruits are high in proteins but low in carbohydrates and fats.  Oatmeals simmered in skim milk (NOT condensed milk) can help lower cholesterol.  I disagree, though, to completely abstain from meat.  Red meat and white meat provide unique proteins to our bodies that NO supllements can substitute.  Not even soy milk or tofu.  Protein, afterall, is a very general term.  We need the specific proteins from red meat.  Processed food like sugars, white rice should be minimized in portion.  EAT MORE, WEIGH LESS lays out the general priciples in formulating a healthy eating habit.  The recipes, though, are pretty difficult and time-consuming.  I personally would not recommend trying the recipes unless you're like a mother staying at home all day venturing with various recipes and concoction.  Stick with the eating habit and you will see result.  Again, EAT MORE, WEIGH LESS is NOT a fitness program.  It's meant to help people to change their diets via some underlying principles.  For those who look for fitness program, search somewhere else.ecipes unless you're like a mother staying at home all day venturing with various recipes and concoction.  Stick with the eating habit and you will see result.  Again, EAT MORE, WEIGH LESS is NOT a fitness program.  It's meant to help people to change their diets via some underlying principles.  For those who look for fitness program, search somewhere else.	2002-03-14
US	51341166	R1CFDMGTY8BF49	0452282586	639614289	Jacobson's Organ: And the Remarkable Nature of Smell	Books	3	8	8	N	N	The Forgotten Sense of Smell	Smell is the forgotten sense according to Lyall Watson. Our noses do more than just smelling out odors. We always say something is smelly in the air. Something wrong. The Jacobson's organ, discovered by Danish anatomist Ludwig Levin Jacobson specializes in recognizing smells that carry specific information about gender, reproduction, and dominance status. This vomeronasal organ has been implicated in the reception of pheromones, those ephemeral chemical signals animals use to communicate nonverbally. The function of this organ implicates underlying correlation between our olfactory sense and the brain, specifically the limbic system of the brain. Limbic system constitutes the rear brain area directly above the spinal cord characterized by appendages of \\"limbs\\". <br />Lyall Watson presents numerous facts and arguments about how the forgotten (neglected) organ retrieve and convey to the brain significant nonverbal messages shuttling from the outside world. Watson drew from papers on scientific studies to support his argument. Some of his conjectures include trees communicate with one another through pheromones. At times of stress, trees will secrete the sweet-smelling ethylene and create this aromatic envelope and sustain themselves. Under temperature change or possible intrusion, the mimosa will protect by shutting down and taking avoiding action-namely releasing anesthetics and cringing in response to cuts, burns, light touches, or even change in temperature. Clover produces an oestrogen that mimics a key mammalian hormone found in female sheep to reduce grazing by reducing the number of grazers. This is what we call chemical mimetics in chemistry. <br />Lyall Watson packs in this book tremendous amount of facts and details. Some of the claims he makes are not necessarily backed by clear scientific evidence and thus readers might find the argument ambiguous and incoherent. Watson also likes to switch from one concept to another without elaborating on the logic behind. So beware of the switching. Some of the examples he draws are very relatable. Take synesthesia, for example, the combination of different ways of knowing about the same things. Have you wondered why it is so easy for car passengers to fall asleep in a long drive? According to Watson, it is the repetitive sound and sights that the passengers succcumb to the usual passing-by sights and get drowsy. The eye-hand-foot coordination (synesthesia) however keeps the driver awake. Another interesting idea Watson brings forth is schizophrenia. Schizophrenic is born with sufficient sensitivity to bring him, and his brain system to conscious attention that normal people not prone to. It is a disease in which abnormal messages seem to pass routinely from one individual to another. Watson also talks about aromatherapy-how certain fragrance oils can trigger sexual arousal, hormone production, or even strikes an ancient chord of memories. The book overall is fun to read but be careful that not all claims Watson makes are confirmed and backed by scientific research, partly because research is still undertaking in this area. After all, smell is still treated as some secondary sense to sights and sounds. 3.2 stars.	2002-03-13
US	51341166	R2F14MNGQKAPS6	0471101613	561709034	Organic Synthesis: The Disconnection Approach	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Retrosynthetic Analysis	Warren's Organic Synthesis-Disconnection Approach focuses on retrosynthetic analysis in organic synthesis.  Some of the central concepts introduced in this strategy book are synthons, target molecule, FGI (functional group interconversion), disconnection, and reagent.<br />Synthons: an idealized fragment, usually a cation or an anion, resulting from a disconnection.  Synthons may or may not be an intermediate in the corresponding reaction.<br />Disconnection:  the reverse operation to a reaction.  The imagined cleavage of a bond to \\"break\\" the molecule into possible starting materials.<br />Functional group interconversion:  the process of converting one functional group into another by substitution, addition, elimination, oxidation, or reduction, and the reverse operation used in retrosynthetic analysis.<br />Reagent:  Warren introduces a formal and rigid definition of reagent in this book.  Reagent is a compound used in practice for a synthon.  <br />Warren's treatise of organic synthesis emphasizes visualizing and choosing not only the most obvious but the most efficient disconnection (retrosynthesis) in synthesizing a target molecule.  The book is set up in a fashion such that synthetic strategies and organic reactions are presented in alternating chapters.  Strategies aim to enforce tricks and concepts of organic synthesis like stereoselectivity, control of regiochemistry and stereochemistry, control of carbonyl condensation, order of events in synthesis, rearrangements, use of ringed molecules.  Reaction chapters present some of the most significant reactions in organic synthesis, with an emphasis of those involve carbon-carbon formation.  <br />Topics of Warren's Organic Synthesis:<BR>Synthesis Strategies<BR>-The Disconnection Approach<BR>-The Order of Events<BR>-Chemoselectivity<BR>-Reversal of Polarity, Cyclization Reactions<BR>-Protecting Groups<BR>-Choosing a Disconnection (General Strategy)<BR>-Stereoselectivity<BR>-Regioselectivity<BR>-Use of Acetylenes<BR>-Introduction of Carbonyl Condensations<BR>-Control in Carbonyl Condensations<BR>-Use of Aliphatic Nitro Compounds in Synthesis<BR>-Radical Reactions in Synthesis<BR>-Reconnections<BR>-Introduction to Ring Synthesis, Saturated Heterocycles<BR>-Rearrangements in Synthesis<BR>-Use of Ketenes in Synthesis<BR>-Pericyclic Rearrangements in Synthesis<BR>-Special Methods for 5-Membered Rings<br />Reaction Methods<BR>-One Group C-X Disconnections<BR>-Two Group C-X Disconnections<BR>-Amine Synthesis<BR>-One Group C-C Disconnections: Alcohols<BR>-One Group C-C Disconnections: Carbonyl Compounds<BR>-Alkene Synthesis<BR>-Two Group Disconnections: Diels-Alder Reactions<BR>-Two Group Disconnections:  1,3-Difunctionalized Compounds and alpha,beta-unsaturated Carbonyl Compounds<BR>-Two Group Disconnections:  1,5-Difunctionalized Compounds, Michael Addition, Robinson Annulation<BR>-Two Group Disconnections:  1,2-Difunctionalized Compounds<BR>-Two Group Disconnections:  1,4-Difunctionalized Compounds<BR>-Two Group Disconnections:  1,6-Difunctionalized Compounds<BR>-Three-Membered Rings<BR>-Four-Membered Rings: Photochemistry in Synthesis<BR>-Five-Membered Rings<BR>-Six-Membered Rings<BR>-Aromatic Heterocycles<br />The book teaches retrosynthetic analysis in organic synthesis.  The ability to recognize an obvious and/or obscure disconnection facilitates organic synthesis tremendously.  The methods and strategies presented in Warren gives advanced undergraduate students, graduate students and practicing chemists an overview of the most significant retrosynthetic pathways.  Exceptional work.	2002-03-06
US	51341166	R3FE49G636J92U	0306462451	655710966	Advanced Organic Chemistry, Fourth Edition - Part B: Reaction and Synthesis	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Course on Organic Synthesis	Carey and Sundberg had written the most detailed and briliant account in the subject of organic chemistry. This volume along with Part A (Structure and Mechanisms) contribute to the most updated account in advanced organic chemistry. Part B deals with organic reactions with emphasis on stereochemical consequences.  Discussion focuses on the most important reactions and methods in modern organic synthesis.<br />Alkylation of nucleophilic carbon intermediates discuss regioselectivity and stereoselectivity in enolate formation.  The coverage on enolate alkylation is excellent that emphasizes on the model that predicts the stereochemistry of alkylation.  The discussion also introduces Ireland model and Zimmerman-Traxler model.  Reaction of carbon nucleophiles with carbonyl groups focuses on some of the most significant reactions:  Mannich reaction, mixed aldol reaction, Wittig reaction and the Horner-Wadsworth-Emmon reaction.  The discussion again focuses on control of regiochemistry and stereochemistry of the condensation via the use of chair transition states.<br />The best sections in this Part B volume of the book is the complete detailed discussion on reduction and oxidation,  Reduction reagents and methods introduced include hydrogenation, hydride donors, stereoselective hydride reduction, various dissolving metal reductions.  Oxidation chapter summerizes all important methods like transition-metal oxidant, Collins reagents, epoxidation, peroxidic reagents, ozonolysis, and selective oxidation of certain functional groups.  <br />The revised Part B edition also includes full discussion on reactions involving transition metals and organoboron, organosilicon, and organotin compounds.  This includes some of the most updated and current research topics.  Other topics covered include reaction of reactive intermediates like carbocations, carbenes, and radicals.  Finally, a chapter is devoted to the cycloadditions, unimolecular rearrangements, and thermal eliminations.  The last chapter deals with planning multi-step organic synthesis with an emphasis on retrosynthetic analysis.  This book has made organic synthesis approachable and easier to comprehend.	2002-03-06
US	51341166	R1VV6KFQSZXJMB	0306462435	797782048	Advanced Organic Chemistry: Part A: Structure and Mechanisms	Books	5	35	38	N	N	Course on Physical Organic Chemistry	Carey and Sundberg had written the most detailed and briliant account in the subject of organic chemistry.  This volume along with Part B (Reactions and Synthesis) contribute to the most updated account in advanced organic chemistry.  Part A deals with chemical bonding + structure, basic stereochemical principles, conformational analysis, stereoelectronic effects, and organic reaction mechanisms.  <br />For many organic students, a basic picture of chemical bonding and structure is more than adequate.  The mathematical complications in physical chemistry have haunted many organic students including myself.  Carey and Sundberg discuss concepts in chemical bonding and structure most relevant to organic chemistry and organic compounds in very plain language.  This volume covers valence bond, molecular orbital theory (MO), Huckel molecular orbital theory, interaction between sigma and pi systems, hyperconjugation.  The book also frontier orbital theory (HOMO, LUMO, PMO) in the context of perturbation theory.<br />The coverage on stereochemistry is succinct but detailed.  It introduces ideas of enantiomeric and diastereomeric relationships.  It also emphasizes on the significance and consequence of prochiral relationships and stereochemistry of dynamic processes.  Conformational analysis is discussed mostly in the context of 3-membered to 7-membered ring systems.  The book also provides thorough discussion on kinetic vs. thermodynamic control in mechanisms.  Some of the less-easy-to-grasp concepts are discussed in details such as the Hammond's Postulate, Curtin-Hammett Principles and isotope effects.  The book also contains a section on inorganic catalysis, Lewis acid catalysis and solvent effects.  It further reinforces the theory and concept studied in introductory courses.<br />The rest of the book focuses on some of the most significant organic reactions: their substrates, reaction mechanism, choice of solvents, intermediates, and possible stereochemical outcomes. Part A mostly deal with all the above except for stereochemical outcomes.  This book covers nucleophilic substitution (Sn1, Sn2, Sn1b), polar addition and elimination reaction, carbocation and cabanion chemistry, and finally an introduction of reactions of carbonyl compounds without emphasizing on the stereochemical outcomes.  The book provides an abundance of reaction examples organized in schemes.  It makes studying very effective and helpful.  The coverage on factors affecting nucleophilic reactions (leaving group ability, steric strain, substitutent effect, solvent, neighboring group participation) is excellent, so much better than most titles currently available.<br />The book concludes with sections on aromaticity, aromatic substitution, concerted reactions, and free-radical reaction.  The section on aromatic substitution covers structure-reactivity relationships and specific reactions such as nitration, halogenation, Friedel-Crafts, diazonium coupling and addition-elimination.  The section on cncerted reactions are basic meant to give a taste of these reactions.  A more detailed account of these reactions will be found in Part B.  Overall Carey and Sundberg is not an easy book to read.  It assumes a basic knowledge of an introductory organic chemistry course.  Advanced undergraduates and graduate students will welcome this new edition and the depth of materials covered.	2002-03-04
US	51341166	R10JKV9LYV0Z3P	0811819663	877098379	Big Sur to Big Basin: California's Dramatic Central Coast	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Breathtaking Pictures with Recounting Memories	I had a getaway to Big Sur last summer and was stunned by the breathtaking view of where the ocean meets the sky.  About a few months later I picked up a copy of Big Sur to Big Basin at a local bookstore and began a virtual re-visit of Big Sur.  Like many pictorials with pages of astonishing sunsets, Pamela Cain, a former Carmel resident, recounted anecdotes and memories of hers that make the photos alive.  The redwoods, the beaches, cheery blossoms, the meandering streams, Pebble Beach golf courses, Monterey bay...Big Sur to Big Basin is your window to panoramic view in central Californian coast.	2002-02-14
US	51341166	R2J8G2M2BLAANX	1884550150	336056701	Exploring Point Reyes: A Guide to Point Reyes National Seashore (Tetra)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Guide to Point Reyes for Avid Hikers	California and Oregon coasts are homes to much hidden beauties and treasures.  The Point Reyes National Seashore is just one of the hidden pearls.  &quot;Exploring Point Reyes&quot; is by far the most updated, complete, and enthusiastic guide to the seclusive peninsula about 25 miles northwest of San Francisco.  Many Point Reyes guide books I found at the bookstore are outdated though they contribute an abundance of information.  <br />&quot;Exploring Point Reyes&quot; refreshes the minds of those who dream of Point Reyes.  The guide come with photos of Drakse Estero, Tomales Bay, the Point Reyes Lighthouse standing 330 steps down the valley on the tip of the peninsula, and more.  The impact of Point Reyes is most dramatic at the meeting of land and sea.  The guide has captured such beauty with the photos.  <br />&quot;Exploring Point Reyes&quot; also provides information and cautionary advice about beaches within the national seashore.  The book gives to direction to good protected beach for wading, picnicking, or just lying in the sun.  The coverage on the Point Reyes Lighthouse is excellent.  One of the greatest location for whale-watching is the lighthouse observation platform from December to April.  <br />&quot;Exploring Point Reyes&quot; also satisfies the desires of adventurous hikers with info on less-known hiking trails.  Trail maps are abundant in the book.  The coverage on trails is divided into three types of terrain that distinguishes the trail systems of Point Reyes.  Whether you're planning a camping trip, a hike-a-thon, or just a one-day photography session at Point Reyes, this book will allow you to see and experience the beauty of the Point Reyes peninsula.  Avid hikers should not miss the book.	2002-02-13
US	51341166	RJG3UV7QHJB81	0471115940	528179284	The Logic of Chemical Synthesis	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Logic Of Organic Synthesis	Organic chemists and practicing researchers would agree that this book goes hand-in-hand with Nicoloau's Classics in Total Synthesis.  While the latter discusses the total synthesis of some of the most fascinating molecules from all over the world, The Logic of Chemical Synthesis is a collection of E. J. Corey's (winner of 1990 Nobel Prize in Chemistry) total syntheses.  The book deals almost exclusively with molecules of biological origin.<br />Part 1 of the book discusses the basic concepts of retrosynthetic analysis.  Subtopics include transform-based strategies, structure-based strategies, topological strategies, stereochemical strategies, functional group-based strategies, and convergence of such strategies.  Many examples are provided to illustrate these strategies.  Molecules shown include Longifolene, Porantherine, Gibberellic acid, Picrotoxinin, and Ginkgolide B.  The strategies help generate possible synthetic pathways by logical reduction of molecular complexity.  In more plain words, the section help dissect complex molecules and reduce them into smaller precursors.  <br />Part 2 focuses on how to apply the synthesis strategies from Part 1 in synthetic methods and pathways for the construction of many complex target molecules. The syntheses combine general principles presented in Part 1 and further enforces idea of retrosynthetic analysis by showing specific examples and emphasizing on reactions of synthesis.  The section breaks down into macrocyclic structures, heterocyclic structures, sesquiterpenoids, polycyclic isoprenoids, prostanoids, and Leukotrienes.  The syntheses presented here might be somewhat more difficult to comprehend at first sight.  E. J. Corey here presents the straightforward synthesis of molecules without any didactic explanations and comments.  Unlike the Nicoloau approach in Classics in Total Synthesis, retrosynthetic analysis of these complex targeting molecules is omitted.  The book also skips all the reaction intermediates and reaction mechanisms.  A good way to understand the syntheses would be to go backward and make sense out of each step.  <br />Part 3 deals with current chemical literature pertaining to multistep syntheses.  The book assumes knowledge of at least one course in organic syntheses which emphasize on synthetic strategies and named reactions.	2002-02-12
US	51341166	R3W53KDDV7VC7N	0967152712	644950859	Point Reyes Visions	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Other Sides of Point Reyes	When I think about Point Reyes, images of beautiful lighthouse, geographically peculiar landscape, boats on the serene Tomales Bay.  Point Reyes Visions has captured some stunning views of Point Reyes. The book is unique in its coverage on oysters, the fire, and lives on the peninsula.  If you are looking for many breath-taking views of Point Reyes landscapes, Point Reyes Visions would be a disappointment.	2002-02-11
US	51341166	RRPM6ACF3HQP4	3527292314	81384602	Classics in Total Synthesis: Targets, Strategies, Methods	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Classics in Total Synthesis Revisited	The more I read and study out from the book, the more I appreciate the beauty of it.  Nicolaou and Sorensen's Classics in Total Synthesis is the most widely consulted title on organic synthesis.  As many have commented, this book is a must for every synthetic organic chemist, organic student and researcher.<br />Released in 1995, despite the advances in synthetic methodology, Nicolaou has presented some of the most remarkable and ingenious total syntheses from laboratories of the world's most prominent organic chemists.  Molecules adopted include strychnine, prostaglandin, progesterone, vitamin B12, erythronolide B, monensin, endiandric acids, biotin, hirsutene, capnellene, methyl homosecodaphniphyllate, calicheamicin and more.  <br />Nicaolaou has done an incredible favor to make the strategies more understandable and accesible.  For each molecule, the total synthesis begins with a thorough retrosynthetic analysis.  Sometimes more than one retrosynthetic routes are introduced in order to show the possibilities of finding the most efficient synthesis.<br />Nicoloau then meticulously describle each step in synthesis with referral to important named reactions such as the Noyori assymmetric reduction, Luche reaction, Johnson Claisen rearrangement, Julia olefination, etc.  With such didatic skill and clarity, Nicoloau has taught the gist of synthesizing complex molecules from commercially available building blocks.  A great way to use the book and learn organic synthesis would be to write down every single step on a separate piece of paper and understand what each step does in the overall total synthesis.  The synthesis steps and important reactions are presented in schemes with blue background sections, with emphasis on asymmetric synthesis, catalysts, stereochemistry and mechanism.  Major reaction intermediates are presented at the margin.<br />Chemical synthesis relies heavily on chemical literature research.  Nicoloau also provides numerous references in each totalsynthesis for further studies and consultation.  Nicoloau has made organic synthesis fun and approachable.  Every synthetic chemist should own a copy of Nicolaou.	2002-02-09
US	51341166	R4YHHH2238SG3	0385498365	495559390	Respected Sir, Wedding Song, The Search	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Hidden Jewel	Mahfouz is one of the greatest contemporary writers we have overlooked.  An anecdote I want to share.  I was diligently browsing through the literature/fiction section at a local bookstore and looking for Mahfouz.  Disappointed.  Looked in the world literature section and again disappointed.  No luck in the translated literature section either.  Why would a representative Egyptian writer be such inadvertently left out?  I spoke to the info desk about Mahfouz and magically, a whole section that featured Mahfouz and his works were set up a few days later!  <br />Respected Sir/Wedding Song/The Search came out just before the winter break.  The new edition consists of three novels by Mahfouz that demonstrate unique writing style.  I was quickly drawn into the book after flipping over ten pages or so.  Mahfouz writes very succinctly and elegantly.  His plots usually begin with a very usual setting.  But there is also an element of suspense.  You will keep on reading not because you know something is going to happen, but becuase things combine to hold you fast.<br />Respected Sir talks about how a government clerk sacrifices all comfort and breaks all family ties to ascend in rank.  His eternal goal is that he will become the Director of Administration (Level 1) in the government.  The narrative authenticates how we desire for power and attain such power against all odds.  <br />Wedding Song involves a whole different writing style.  The story features a montage, re-telling of the same story in the persepctives of 4 characters.  Psychologucal suspense dominates the mood of the piece as, the main characters, twist back and forth between virtuality and reality.  You will unveil the \\"true story\\" that was masked and concealed by what the characters perceive the story to be.  <br />The Search tells of the story of a criminal searching for his long-lost father.  The sexual desire, the filler of loneliness, and fear interweaves with his longing for his father.  Mahfouz has wriiten three brilliant pieces that delineates human emotions.  Hidden jewel in modern/contemporary literature.	2002-02-08
US	51341166	R30JHYZ5MKAFNM	0312180160	662875185	Seeing & Writing	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Pictorial Guide to Fun, Creative and Challenging Writing	Read the book just like a magazine.  Seeing &amp; Writing is packed with stunning images including cartoons, posters, news captions, studio portraits, studio arts and illustrations.  The title is pretty self-explanatory.  Seeing and writing:  The book encourages us to see, to examine, to observe, to scrutize, to pay attention to small details and so to inspire a more complete and fun writing experience.  The book also adopts pieces that leave us agape, in a way that we can re-discover how we could write about an even occurs in a nick of time as a small frog being swallowed by a bug-eater.  You will be amazed at how detailed, descriptive, lively some of the selections found in the book.  Re-discover our life experience, re-discover our writing.  Write like we have never written before.  See &amp; Writing is truly inspiring.	2002-02-06
US	51341166	R3U4PT9Z411B2F	0820323004	626819911	The Face of Tibet	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Heart-grasping Work	This exquisite pictorial collection captures my heart just like the previous &quot;The Spirit of Tibet: Portrait of a Culture in Exile&quot; by Alison Wright.  William Chapman has captured the soul and spirit of the Tibetan people, a people in exile.  I have always have a strong interest in Tibet, and, hpefully, one day I can experience the roof of the world myself.  The collection has unveiled the people, the land, and the religion behind the facade.  You may experience and sense the peace, joy, meekness of the people.  Beautifully done!	2002-02-06
US	51341166	R3GEIQ1U3WIU7I	0471160199	245220662	Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Book Will be Your Bible in Lab	If you doing any sort of organic chemistry in the lab, you will really get your hands into this handy reference on protecting groups.  The book neatly organized into functional groups and their protecting groups.  A Primer for organic chemists.  It will save you zillion hours of researching for papers/references on the appropriate protecting groups used in reactions.	2002-02-04
US	51341166	R1113J23NE3SZE	0070487162	893601387	Organic Synthesis	Books	4	1	2	N	N	I'm Excited about the 2nd Edition	It is almost like dream comes true when I saw the revised, new second edition out at the bookstore.  The imrpoved edition not only has amended the errors or typo in its predecessor, but has graciously added new/updated materials in synthesis.  You may see it as an equivalent to Jerry March's Advanced Organic Chemistry but a whole different approach.  The sections on oxidations, reductions, and organoboranes are excellent.  Since organic synthesis is a broad and infinitely growing field, not a single book covers all the principles and gadgets of organic chemistry.  Use it as an encyclopedia or along with popular title like Nicholaou's Classics in Total Synthesis in order to enjoy the wonders of organic chemistry.	2002-02-04
US	51341166	RE2JSJMEFOZHB	0312977026	551641485	K-Pax	Books	4	2	3	N	N	K-Pax	Simply engaging. Many will find this title after hearing or seeing Kevin Spacey's starring in the motion picture. What makes this science fiction successful is that we're drawn to the storyline immediately when we pick up and read the first few pages. Seems somewhat straightforward: a man named Prot who claims to be visiting Earth from another planet named K-Pax. What's more is that as audience (readers), we are drawn to buy either truth - whether Prot is nothing more than a psycho, or to believe and be convinced that he does come from K-Pax, and in the awe of the team of scientists who devoted years to study the orbits of the constellation Lyra, Prot simply sketches the night sky as observed from K-Pax - or, to summarize, Prot knows everything about the newly discovered star system. A note to make about this book, K-Pax is the first part of the trilogy. The second part will pick up from the point where Prot \\"leaves\\" Earth and travels back to K-Pax. 3.8 stars.<br />Revised 3/7/2003	2002-02-04
US	51341166	R1JI3ZOCHGKY9V	0060936231	429116202	Soul Mountain	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Soul Mountain Review 2	A close re-reading reveals Soul Mountain as the author's mindful imaginations in life.  The purpose of searching of \\"Lingshan\\" (Soul Mountain) came about when the author was diagnosed having lung cancer.  Later on the book the author divulged that he was in fact mis-diagnosed.  It is amazing how one decided to pack up and go off on a journey searching for the utopia, enjoying the quietness for the rest of life.  This is how all the first-person and second-person reflections come about:  Reality vs. Imagination.  The quest for \\"Lingshan\\"  reflects on the desire for happiness, peace, and joy.  \\"Ling\\" in Chinese means the \\"soul\\".  Soul mountain might imply the meaning of life fulfillment.  The author's actual journey was to evade from reality and the suffering from the terminal disease.	2002-02-04
US	51341166	R17P9C8CQJPUE	3527292438	102679650	Stereoselective Synthesis: A Practical Approach	Books	4	2	3	N	N	You Should Add This Book to Your Organic Collection	This second revised edition further enforces, applies, summarizes the concepts in stereoselective synthesis presented in Carey &amp; Sundberg's Advacned Organic Chemistry Part B.  Topics include stereoselective catalytic reductions, stereoselective non-catalytic reductions, stereoselective oxidations, stereoselective carbon-carbon formation via nucleophilic addition to carbonyl and via pericyclic reactions.  New material has also been added on homogenous diastereoselective hydrogenation, enantioselective oxidations, and, novel chiral auxiliaries.  This revised edition includes materials and examples from updated and current research.  Organic chemists and researchers should no doubt add this volume to their organic collection.	2002-02-04
US	51341166	R1UIEUTXAECFMW	020115417X	693203953	Virtual Grossology (Planet Dexter's Grossology Series)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Fun and....Gross	\\"UUhhhhhh........\\"  \\"Ouuuuuchu....that is groooosssssss....\\" The lively, piercing scream only spices up the excitement even more about this book.  The sound is audible even from the outside of the classroom.  Our undergraduate writing instructor used the toy as means to trigger writing via the senses.  Virtual Grossology is one fun book to play with.  The kids will no doubt find it friendly and fun.  A word of caution:  In the \\"Smell It\\" section, the smelly pages are REALLY smelly!	2002-02-02
US	51341166	R1I8KBHP6THU6T	1559391073	353780933	The Spirit of Tibet: Portrait of a Culture in Exile	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Stunning Work	Ever since I read Heinrich Harrer's &quot;Seven Years in Tibet&quot; six years, then the later &quot;Return to Tibet&quot; by the same author, I was hooked to Tibet, the Tibetan people, the Tibetan land, the Tibetan mountains, the Tibetan monasteries, everything Tibetan.  I have cultivated an unspeakable tie to this unique land and its people.  I began screening movies such as Kundun and Seven Years in Tibet.  I have imagined and pictured Tibet according to Harrer's lively and mindful description during his residence in Lhasa.  &quot;The Spirit of Tibet&quot; graciously allows me, for the very first time, to see Tibet unveiling its mysterious yet solemn beauty.  A few other readers have complimented on the artistics and aesthetics of this collection.  The collection really touches me because it communicates an unfailing passion.  After the Chinese invasion in 1950, it is the Tibetan spirit and passion that sustain and unite the country and its people.  When you look through the pictures, try to look into the Tibetans' eyes.  Behind these eyes you will free yourself from the ordinary and see their life struggles, one and one, rooted deep in their mind and soul.	2002-02-01
US	51341166	R372O25P5HPQZ6	1557043426	522643127	The Seven Years in Tibet: Screenplay and Story Behind the Film (Newmarket Pictorial Moviebook)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Beautifully Done	This pictorial book was to coincide with the release of the epic movie based on the classic memoir of Austrian mountaineer Heinrich Harrer.  The book contains scripts, location stills of Tibet, and hundreds of photo stills from the making and the movie itself.  Knowing that due to the Chinese opposition parts of the scenes from the movie were actually shot in South America, I was somehow disappointed.  But the pictorial still adds grciously to my Tibet collection.	2002-02-01
US	51341166	R28X7N0DQV9HU	0312977026	551641485	K-Pax	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Keep You All Night to Read from Beginning to End...	Simply engaging.  Many will find this title after hearing or seeing Kevin Spacey's starring in the motion picture.  What makes this science fiction successful is that we're drawn to the storyline immediately when we pick up and read the first few pages.  Seems somewhat straightforward:  a man named Prot who claims to be visiting Earth from another planet named K-Pax.  What's more is that as audience (readers), we are drawn to buy either truth - whether Prot is nothing more than a psycho, or to believe and be convinced that he does come from K-Pax, and in the awe of the team of scientists who devoted years to study the orbits of the constellation Lyra, Prot simply sketches the night sky as observed from K-Pax - or, to summarize, Prot knows everything about the newly discovered star system.  A note to make about this book, K-Pax is the first part of the trilogy.  The second part will pick up from the point where Prot &quot;leaves&quot; Earth and travels back to K-Pax.	2002-01-26
US	51341166	R20Y62XIFML1OY	0312982089	203976238	On a Beam of Light	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Second Part of the Trilogy	Maybe I was drawn by the movie tie-in when the motion picture came out, this second part of the trilogy doesn't seeem as thrilling as its predecessor.  K-PAX 2-On a Beam of Light picks up from where the starter left off.  It is the continued narrative of how psychiatrist Gene Brewer worked with Prot, who claimed to travel from the planet K-Pax and denied any affiliation with humans.  The book is more or less, a detailed account of Prot's treatment which included hypnosis sessions aimed to recover his past and more importantly the tragic events that led to his mental disorder.  I was immediately drawn into the book simply because I want to know the end outcome of the story.  The concluding part of the trilogy is expected to come out in 2002.	2002-01-26
US	51341166	R2SV76R2W02JNC	0060936231	429116202	Soul Mountain	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Quite Difficult to Comprehend What's Real and Imagined...	A third-grader would know enough vocabulary to read this book from beginning to end.  It is what the philosophical implication of the work that baffles me, and probably, many.  Instead of being a novel, Soul Mountain reads as if it is made up of 80 short stories  (the book is divided into 80 chapters).  Call it diary or freelance essays, the chapters don't seem to have apparent connection with one another.  I do not quite understand the implications of &quot;I&quot; and &quot;you&quot; used throughout the work.  It seems to me that &quot;you&quot; is actually the reflection of &quot;I&quot;.  &quot;You&quot; and &quot;I&quot; are used in alternating fashion throughout the book.  The authorial self is thus (I guess) divided into first-person and second-person perspectives.   It seems that the author reflects on his actual trip when he uses &quot;You&quot;.  Again I might have to re-read and find the answer.	2002-01-26
US	51341166	R2J0QWZ265MYT5	0195101022	319597640	Organic Structure Analysis (Topics in Organic Chemistry)	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Organic Spectroscopy Made Clear	Crews is not a hardcore treatise of the subject.  It does not cover the quantum mechanics behind spectroscopy and the complicated mathematical underneath the concept.  Instead it discusses the fundamentals and results of such quantum calculations which apply to identification of organic compounds.  Basic concepts of nuclear magnetic resonance, infrared spectroscopy, ultra violet spectroscopy are thoroughly covered with examples and charts.  Crews is a splendidly-written, straight-forward work that would be suitable for advanced undergraduates who had finished at least one year of organic chemistry, for those who pursue chemical research, and entering grad students.	2001-08-23
US	51341166	R3OCHAESRTADFK	0030584272	328488628	Introduction to Spectroscopy: A Guide for Students of Organic Chemistry (Saunders golden sunburst series)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Another Good Reference on Organic Spectroscopy	The new edition of Pavis might be the twin to Crews' Organic Structural Analysis.  This text discusses the fundamentals of 1H NMR, carbon-13 NMR, infrared spectroscopy, UV spectroscopy.  The book also includes a section on 2D NMR.  Pavia should not be missed by advanced undergraduate students who pursue research and practicing chemists who need quick reference on interpreting spectra.	2001-08-23
US	51341166	R1Y15ZWWE4UEVX	0716732688	345373568	Structure and Mechanism in Protein Science: A Guide to Enzyme Catalysis and Protein Folding	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Biochemists Can't Miss	The book focuses on enzyme catalysis, stereochemistry of enzyme reactions, determination of rate constant, enzyme kinetics, and protein structure and folding.  It would be an ideal reference for the study of protein chemistry.  It can serve as the primary text for an advanced course in protein chemistry or a supplement for undergraduate biochemistry text.<br />Protein folding has remained one of the most intricate yet less understood process in modern biochemistry.  Feersht's treatise of the subject in this book is splendid.  The author overviews protein structure and diversity in the opening chapter.  What I find really precious about this book is the discussion on protein engineering, forces on folding, and recombinant DNA technology in the context of protein folding.  <br />Aside from protein chemistry, the chapter on chemical catalysis is excellent in learning more about transition state theory, general acid/base catalysis, covalent catalysis, structure-reactivity relationships, and kinetic isotope effects.	2001-08-23
US	51341166	R18WKCY15CMSC6	0867202076	63160041	Organic Chemistry	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Novice Approach to Organic Chemistry	Editorial review is right about this book.  No current organic text is written and presented like Fox.  Instead of a coherent discussion on different functional groups and thier chemistry, Fox had adopted a new approach in introducing the basic concepts of the subject.  Chromatography and spectroscopy, the core idea in organic laboratory and research, is introduced early in Chapter 4.  The coverage on NMR and GC might be supplemented by an introductory text on the subject like Crews' &quot;Organic Structural Analysis&quot;.  Yet Fox had successfully familiarized students with the concepts of research.  The rest of the text discusses reaction types and mechanisms.  A chapter is devoted to the idea of multistep synthesis and retrosynthesis.  The book also emphasizes on mechanisms and coming up with the most efficient synthetic route as reflected in the end-of-chapter problem sets.	2001-08-23
US	51341166	R2Q6BM2Q9IX5CN	0718143493	561640158	Catching Cold	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good Read But Not Exactly What I Want	I finished this book while I was on vacation in Hong Kong.  I picked it up at a local bookstore and started reading the opening chapter on bird flu outburst in Hong Kong in 1997.  Maybe that was what I looked for.  Pete Davies had written a splendid account the Spanish flu virus that wiped out millions globally in 1918.  The briefing on bird flu in 1997 served as timely broach into the subject.  The rest of the book described the terrifying story of a plague from our recent past.  It focused on a small group of scientists trying to trace, dig up, and therefore understand the 1918 virus.  The book is splendidly written that you can read it as a thriller.	2001-08-23
US	51341166	R2KZJR6GYRBANA	3527292845	991317945	Classics in Total Synthesis	Books	5	7	9	N	N	This Could Be The Only Synthesis Book You Need...	A graduate student strongly recommended me to get this book and start reading. At first intimidated by the complex synthesis steps and unfamiliar reagents, the Nicolaou synthesis book is a must read for organic students and chemists. Unlike &quot;The Logic of Chemical Synthesis&quot; (no doubt is also well-written), Nicolaou's &quot;Classics in Total Synthesis&quot; is a pictorial account of some of the representative syntheses of natural products. The detailed, well-written text discusses total synthesis work of chemists such as Heathcock, Corey, Evans, and Nicolaou himself. Each synthesis is preceded with the historical background and significance. A detailed synthetic scheme is included with detailed discussion of each intemediate and inidvidual step. Reader will surely learn a great deal by working through each synthetic step with a pencil and paper. While most advanced organic texts discuss the typical traditional methods in synthetic chemistry, Nicolaou discusses practical approach to synthesizing complex stereospecific compounds. Corey's &quot;The Logic of Chemical Syntheses&quot; might have the similar scope in organic synthesis, yet Nicolaou will be more reader-friendly especially for beginning students in organic synthesis.  Nicolaou presents not only the tactics of the subject, it also brings out the beauty of the art of total synthesis.  A good read!	2001-08-20
US	51341166	R1R05QTR62UQ0	0808554212	954102735	Lost Horizon	Books	3	28	35	N	N	Engaging Start Yet Losing Interest...	Since Heinrich Harrer's &quot;Seven Years in Tibet&quot; (based on author's true story) and &quot;Return to Tibet&quot;, I had caught myself in a reading spree on everything related to Tibet, whether fiction or non-fiction.  Tehn I came across James Hilton's &quot;Lost Horizon&quot;.  I had to admit that the book caught my attention with an engaging plot that four people brought against their will to mysterious Shangri-La, set in the hidden mountains of the Blue Moon, a place where nobody ages.  The mysterious and suspending plot is what makes this Hawthornden Prize-winning novel catchy and was made into motion pictures several times.  <br />Despite the splendidly written text, the storyline itself was not developed very extensively.  Most of the text describes the story of Hugh Conway, who was trapped by the fascination of eternal life.  The sudden and abrupt ending of the novel was somehow disappointing to me.	2001-08-20
US	51341166	R2224OTGYXYV9H	0874779251	721259765	Return to Tibet: Tibet After the Chinese Occupation	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Read It As History, Not Travelogue	It is amazing that Henrich Harrer has written separate accounts on Tibet, the roof of thw world, with incredible disparity in emotions.  The successor of &quot;Seven Years in Tibets&quot;, &quot;Return to Tibet&quot; records the author's revisit 30 years after his departure in 1950.  &quot;Return to Tibet&quot; is often regarded as the continuation of &quot;Seven Years in Tibet&quot;, except that readers shouldn't read it as a travelogue.  Interwoven with the once-vivid and jocund recollection of the country, Harrer contrasted the dismal Tibet under the Chinese neocolonialism.  One might find the later volume dry and even disappointing because &quot;Return To Tibet&quot; is not really a showcase of colorful Tibetan costumes, or the rancid butter tea, or the architecture of monasteries.  Instead, it is more a political review of how China had annihilated the Tibetan cultures by forcing adoption of new beliefs and ideologies.  The climax of the book falls into the author's report to the Dalai Lama, with whom Harrer had built a close friendship.  It is through Dalai Lama, spiritual leader of Tibet, that the author realized that Tibetans' beliefs are unshakable.  &quot;Tibetans are people of love and patience.  They never value war.  Yet they value religion and belief more than anything.  They would value religion more than not going to war.&quot;	2001-08-15
US	51341166	R2N5E7HFI20KDQ	0748740716	5469289	Advanced Practical Organic Chemistry, Second Edition	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Organic Chemists and Students Must Have!	The book discusses fundamental techniques in organic laboratory.  Topics that I found very useful are running the reaction (i.e. air-sensitive and water-sensitive chemistry), monitoring reaction (i.e.thin-layer chromatography), working up reaction (have you wondered why ammonium chloride is a good reagent to work up the reaction? how to efficiently separate layers without emulsions?, etc), purifying compounds (i.e. distillation, recrystallization, determining the sizes of columns, choice of eluting solvents,...)  The book should be on the shelf of every chemist.	2001-08-06
US	51341166	R1HG0Q2NVJY0P6	0471129488	429660051	The Organic Chem Lab Survival Manual: A Student's Guide to Techniques	Books	3	45	46	N	N	Organic Lab Primer For Beginning Students	This volume provides a plethora of information on equipment and techniques for introductory organic chemistry laboratory.  It is best suited for first year organic sequence.  A great deal of info includes keeping a lab notebook, experiment glasswares, separation techniques and IR spectroscopy.  A particular section that I find helpful and handy is the discussion on jointware.  The distinction and usage on different kinds of adaptation jointwares can be confusing.  I believe Zubrick's book is one of the few out in the field that actually discusses the use of different jointware.  The section &quot;To Grease or not to grease&quot; discusses whether or not to use a lubricant and when to use lubricant.  For a novice organic lab student who is both confused and overwhelmed by massive equipment in the lab, this book is the perfect primer.  Yet the information might be oversimplified and scarce to advanced student and lab chemist.  Coverage on topics like TLC, distillation theory, spectroscopy could be more in-depth and detailed.  I recommend this book for beginning students.  For more advanced students, they should consult Vogel's &quot;Practical Organic Chemistry&quot;.	2000-11-26
US	51341166	RBXF6S0JV9JAJ	0874778883	651232010	Seven Years in Tibet	Books	5	56	60	N	N	Seven Years in Tibet, Life Experience	Three months after finishing and putting down the book, I'm still so inspired by the whole Heinrich Harrer tale and his experience in Tibet.  This is the coming about of the second review of the book.<br />The book starts off at the outbreak of World War II.  Heinrich Harrer and his mountain climbing associates, while attemtping the Nanga Parbat mountain, were arrested by the British and were imprisoned in Indian internment camp located near the border with Tibet.  <br />After securing enough life necessities and supplies, Harrer and his friend Peter Aufschnaiter escaped and set out for the Indian-Tibetan border.  <br />The road to Lhasa was strenuous, arduous, and painful.  Harrer and Aufschnaiter struggled with winter blizzard, depleting supplies, mountain sickness, and even risk of robbers.  They had to obtain license upon arrival in unexplored territory.  They risked the refusal to enter Tibet without a permit.  They risked their life as their supplies won't last for the trip.  <br />Upon arrival into the country, they were greeted with curiosity, meticulousness, guard, and warmth.  They were housed in government mansion; treated sumptuous Tibetan meal; tailored expensive hand-crafted embroidered wardrobe.  From day to day throng of visitors came visit these newly-arrived foreigners.  <br />Heinrich Harrer lived in Lhasa for almost 5 years.  He performed plumbing and other technical servies for his friends and government officials.  He taught children how to read and write English.  He introduced ice-skating to Tibetans by sticking a knife underneath the boots.  <br />The most significant portion of this book is the detailed yet sentimental description of Harrer's relationship with the young Dalai Lama.  Harrer recalled spending days and days at Dalai's summer palace and in Potola Palace teaching him English, talking to him about politics and building the first &quot;home entertainment center&quot;.  They even made a film together and showed the film to the monks.  Harrer was even permitted to film the Dalai processional in New Year.  <br />Harrer had built a deep friendship with Dalai and his people, one of which Harrer never had expected.  Harrer stayed in Tibet until the time when the Chinese was ready to take over Tibet.  This book is filled with heart warming anecdotes, scenes of Tibetan lives and people.  It has temendously inspired me to visit Tibet one day and experience for myself.  Highly recommended.	2000-11-26
US	51341166	RI6H50SRG6VE4	0140189645	907196342	The Crucible: A Play in Four Acts (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Hysteria, McCarthyism Exposed	While Arthur Miller was more likely known for his most popular play DEATH OF A SALESMAN, which won the Pulitzer Prize as the best play in 1949, THE CRUCIBLE is regarded by many critics to be a much more superior work.<br />THE CRUCIBLE was written in response to the ridiculous charges made by Senator McCarthy, who accused the Democratic administration of harboring and supporting Communists in the United States Government.  Miller wrote the play in 1953, at the same time America was involved in a formidable struggle with the former Soviet Union.  America in general had this secret and unexpressed xenophobia of this social-communist power.  <br />Miller had used the famous McCarthy saying in the play - the senator oftained maintained that those who opposed his hearing were Communists, and consequently, any public official who offered criticism, questions, or doubts of the hearings soon found himself defending himself against the charge of being a part of the Communicst conspiracy.<br />In THE CRUCIBLE, we also found struggle and conflict between the Salem people and the Authority.  At a more personal, narrower level, this conflict exists between John Proctor vs. Reverend Parris.  John Proctor was a local member of the church who had opposed and challenged many of Parris' unnecessary expenditures.   Like those who dared the power of the government and questioned authority of hearings back in 1950s here in America, anyone who opposed the authority of the Salem judges was automatically suspected of trying to undermine the court in the 17th century.  <br />Besides McCarthyism at the time when the play was written, THE CRUCIBLE reflected so much the concepts of Puritanism back in the 17th century.  The unusual nature of the Puritan religion led to all kinds of and different levels of fear of witches and persecution.  Puritans, like the authority in THE CRUCIBLE, deeply felt that their way of life was absolutely right and all other ways were wrong.  Therefore, Puritans believed that government should be totally controlled by the church.  <br />THE CRUCIBLE is an authentic examination of the Puritan Age of America.  It was written at the time when McCarthyism outburtsed and people lived in hysteria.  It served to parallel the Salem Witch0hunt which brought about fear and persecution some 300 years ago.  Interesting play.  Fun to read.	2000-11-26
US	51341166	R2TM9ROADXXKTB	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Best of Fitzgerald's Work	THE GREAT GATSBY superficially is the story of what happens to Nick Carraway, and the conclusions he draws from his experiences.  Yet the very experiences of his own become the theme of the book.  Nick, as a narrator, becomes significant in the thematic content.<br />Like many American novels in the same time period, THE GREAT GATSBY relies heavily on variety of symbols.  A symbol may function on several levels at once.  A symbol may represent an idea but also function as an idea throught the book.<br />One of the central idea that stands out and persists throughout the other novel is wealth.  Fitzgerald's persoanl life has contributed a greal deal to this idea of wealth.  In fact, his own life has more direct pertinence to his work than the lives of most writers.  The idea of wealth ocuupies a great deal and achieves a central role in the novel, as well as Fitzgerald's life.<br />Nick Carraway is able to see the self-destructive nature of fascination of wealth.  Maybe this is the message Fitzgerald wants to get across as he was deeply possessed by such fasination of materialism.	2000-11-24
US	51341166	RTRHFT8BNQ02R	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Whole World is Involved....	THE CATCHER IN THE RYE is Holden Caulfield's personal narrative of his four day attempt to esacpe from the phoniness of the world, and to find a fixed reality.  The entire book is a flashback filled with digressions, anedotes, and asides that reveal Holden's character.  <br />The book is concerned about psychological pressures felt by the teenager who was actually on the brink to adulthood.  J. D. Salinger somehow wanted to portrait Holden as a hero who was determined to escape the world and seek a new home - a place where he will be involved with nobody, where there will be no pain, no disillusionment, and no involvement.<br />Over the span of four days, Holden was met by psychological and metaphorical challenges, or even dangers, that robbed him of his own values, own individuality and intellectual autonomy.  The reason why I say the whole world is involved is becuase of the great number of people Holden encountered in this novel.  From his own parents and siblings, his friends at Pencey Prep to the hooker, etc., Holden is a character with incredibly great aquaintances.  <br />THE CATCH IN THE RYE has remained one of my most beloved book since I first read it in eighth grade.  Every now and then I have to re-read the book and be transformed again.  The book was banned in certain communities and condemned by some school boards due to profanity since it was published in 1951.  It is truly one of American classics.  Highly recommended.	2000-11-23
US	51341166	R2VS3UNZHZ73WX	0192833715	916048954	The Scarlet Letter (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Scarlet Letter Review	One of the American classics, THE SCARLET LETTER tells of a woman named Hester Prynne in late 17th century who committed the then-unforgivable sin of adultery.  She had been living in Boston for two years and had been found guilty of bearing a child (Pearl) by an unknown father.  As punishment for her sin, Hester was forced to wear a scarlet A (adultery) on the bodice of her dress and to stand on a public scaffold before Boston's townspeople.  <br />The opening chapter &quot;Custom House&quot; seemed irrelevant to the rest of the novel the first time I read the book.  It was not until a couple of years later I found it not true when I re-read the novel.  I do have to admit that Hawthrone's writing style can drag at times, the once-seemed boring opening chapter significantly set the mood for the rest of the novel.<br />&quot;Custom House&quot; does not seem to be an integral part of the story; yet the passage in which Hawthrone tells of having discovered, in the Salem Custom House, the faded scarlet A and the parchment foolscap sheets containing the facts which he says he used as the basis for this novel.  The two landmarks mentioned at the beginning:  prison and cemetry, point to the central themes of punishment and death, which will be combined in the climax of the novel.  Prison might symbolize how Hester Prynne, who wore that scarlet A on the bodice, was forever locked in by her sin.  <br />This entire tale is filled with symbolisms.  The prison is described as &quot;the black flower of the civilized society&quot;.  The tombstone at the end of the book implies that crime and punishment may well bring about the death of such civilized life.  The most popular and conspicuous symbol that is well sustained throughtout the book is the scalet A that is worn by Hester Prynne.  Initially it is a red cloth letter which is a literal symbol of the sin of adultery.  But the author makes the symbol A much more richly symbolic throughout the rest of the tale.  The scaffold isnot only a symbol of the stern Puritan code, but also a symbol for the open acknowledgment of personal sin.  Night and day are symbols for concealment and openness.  The sun symbolizes happiness and freedom of guilt.  The list goes on and on....<br />Arthur Dimmensdale, Roger Chillingworth, Hester Prynne, and Pearl themselves, are symbols as well.  They reflect certain view of sins and effects on humans and society.  The book might take strength and effort to read; but it's not quite a bad read.	2000-11-23
US	51341166	R186IU0K0HAIZY	0139738509	734853051	Introduction to Organic Chemistry, Revised Printing (4th Edition)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	One of the Best but Intensive Texts	It might not have lush photos and graphics, yet this revised printing version of &quot;Introduction to Organic Chemistry&quot; remains one of the most authoritative text for introductory level.<br />Readers are assumed solid mastery of one year of general chemistry since the coverage on electronic structure and bonding is succinct.  Readers should be able to draw Lewis dot structures and identify the major resonance structures from all resonance structures, etc.<br />Two separate chapters discuss respectively organic structures and chapter reactions, who incorporate the simple chemistry of alkanes (hydrocarbons).  Stereoisomerism is introduced early in the text so students can grasp this important concept and the consequence on reactions, reactivity and distribution of products.<br />Discussion on nucleophilic substitution reaction is somewhat obscure that might requires a few readings in order to grasp the idea.  Discussion on various functional groups (alkenes, alkynes, nitriles, ketones, enol, carboxylic acids, carboxylic derivatives) are very detailed and problems focus on multistep organic synthesis.  <br />Information on spectroscopy (NMR spectroscopy, IR spectroscopy, etc) might not be comparable to a text that devotes to these spectroscopy topics, but students will learn the gist and essence of using these techniques in determining organic structures.  <br />What makes this text distinguish itself from others are the chapters on hetero atoms like phosphorus, sulfur, and silicon.  Another chapter is devoted to difunctional compounds which are siginificant intermediates and starting points for synthesis.  Discussion on biological macromolecules like carbohydrates, amino acids, proteins are also included.  Readers will also find the door to advanced topics such as aromatic halides, phenols, phenyl ethers, polycyclic aromatic compounds, and heterocyclic compounds.  <br />Overall the information presented here is very detailed and geared toward advanced study andresearch.  This is highly recommended for serious chemisty students.  Excellent problems.  Highly recommended.	2000-11-21
US	51341166	RBQV353ZCRFW8	1878424319	991834329	The Four Agreements: A Practical Guide to Personal Freedom (A Toltec Wisdom Book)	Books	5	94	109	N	N	The Four Agreements Can Change Your Life	This book s interesting but enlightening:<br />1. Be impeccable with your words 2. Don't take things personally 3.  Don't make assumptions 4.  Always do your best<br />Sounds simple huh? Not so quick!  Rooted in Toltec beliefs, Miguel Ruiz has done us all a great favor to explain and illustrate the above four agreements.  This book serves as a practical guide to how we live daily.  Language:  Words, assumptions, thoughts, pre-occupation can always lead to misunderstanding and a break of relationship.  Miguel Ruiz goes step-by-step, with practicals and examples, to help us achieve these four agreements.  Say what you really mean to say.  Don't circumvent or evade.  Don't make assumptions because assumptions always lead to misunderstanding.  Ruiz has so much to offer in this brillantly written book.  Highly recommended.	2000-11-18
US	51341166	RGZLA6N2CLS3Y	0137204590	548898119	Principles of Physical Biochemistry	Books	4	28	28	N	N	This Is Just As Rigorous Mathematically	This physical biochemistry text breaks down into three major sections:  Macromolecular structure and dynamics. spectroscopy, and solution behavior of macromolecules.  In very simple words, this treatise is not easy to read.  It is definitely NOT for beginners in the field.  In fact, the materials covered in this book require knowledge of chemistry major to comprehend.<br />Treatment n quantum mechanics and spectroscopy in this text go as deep as perturbation theory with all the rigorus mathematics.  Readers might want to study ut Atkins' Physical Chemistry before flipping to sectins on statistical thermodynamics.  Sections on X-ray, NMR, and absorption spectroscopy are written very clearly but smewhat too terse.  Yet the terse treatment of these topics does nt necessarily make the concepts easier to understand. <br />Overall this text is worth all the information.  Yet readers should be cautious abut whether ther are prepared for the level of mathematics and chemistry.	2000-11-16
US	51341166	R1OZTLDBY1WSM8	0471182109	948114527	Chemical and Engineering Thermodynamics	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Prerequisite: P-Chem	This book is applauded for its precision and details, but complained for its level of rigor that is not welcomed by an average undergraduate student.  Students should have taken physical chemistry or at least be familiar with concepts of thermodynamic mixing in order to read this book.  <br />Discussion on basic laws of thermodynamics is very terse that readers should look elsewhere (i.e. Atkins' Physical Chemistry or McQuarrie's Physical Chemistry: A Molecular Approach) for such topics.  Treatise on liquids, chemical equilibrium, and real substances is excellent.  Overall this is not a bad text if you've met the prerequisite.	2000-11-16
US	51341166	R39MSXH1LH043V	0471601802	196835780	Advanced Organic Chemistry: Reactions, Mechanisms, and Structure	Books	5	10	11	N	N	One of the Most Comprehensive Works	Updated for the continuing growth of the field, Jerry March had simply written one of the most comprehensive works in organic chemistry.  The huge, thick volume might not serve as a text but rather a desktop reference.  It was chosen as a course bible for my organic synthesis class.<br />The first part of the book deals with strcutures in organic chemistry.  It serves as a prerequisite to understanding of reactions and mechanisms.  This section contains information about some of the most ambiguous organic intermediates (species) such as nitrenes, carbenes, carbocations, and tautomers.  One can also find detailed discussion on cis-trans isomerism and structural reactivity relations.<br />Part II of the volume discusses organic reactions and types of reactions in depth.  Representative reactions include nucleophilic substitution, electrophilic substitution, rearrangements and radical reactions.  Though March's work is self-containing as a sole reference, it is also meant to serve as a companion to major texts such as Miller's &quot;Advanced Organic Chemistry&quot;, the double volumes of &quot;Advanced Organic Chemistry&quot; by Carey and Sundberg and any undergraduate introductory texts.<br />March's book distinguishes itself in discussion of organic named reaction such as Susuki reaction, Wolf-Kishner reduction, Swern oxidation, etc.  One might often encounter difficulty in looking up named reactions.  Jerry March's book will ease much of the trouble.  Organic chemists and students should not miss this treasured work.  Highly recommended.	2000-11-13
US	51341166	R1O6W2REIKXCCF	0394718720	111155158	Black English	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Classics on African American Vernacular English AAVE	I came in contact with this whole AAVE (aka Black English) business when I took a linguistics class in undergraduate.  The Oakland School Board then in 1996-97 outbursted the controversy of recognizing AAVE as an official instruction language in schools.<br />On a linguistic persepctive, as this book suggests, AAVE should be considered a dialect of English for it is what linguists call &quot;rule-governed&quot;.  It means that Black English has a distinctive sets of grammar rules, structures, and sound patterns.  It had been hypothesized that West African immigrants came into the country and worked as slaves.  They might speak a pidgrin that over course of time developed and became a creole.  This is known as the Creole Hypothesis.  It explains the striking similarities shared between Plantation English (spoken by Southern Whites) and Black English.<br />Dillard's book, though published more than 20 years ago, still reflects the distinct linguistic characteristics of AAVE.  The dialect distinguishes itself with forestressing syllable, regularization (i.e. using &quot;I goes&quot; rather than &quot;I go&quot;), syllable contaction (i.e. pronouncing &quot;suppose&quot; as /spoz/), perfective &quot;done&quot; form, invariant be form, and more.<br />AAVE therefore is just like any dialect we might hear people speak except it is often stigmatized; that is, in linguist's language, language is degraded and the speakers feel ashamed to speak the language.  Dillard's book deals with grammatical and social aspects of the language.  Highly recommended.	2000-11-12
US	51341166	R3NXSYHSD30MQV	0743214781	636848454	Is Our Children Learning?: The Case Against George W. Bush	Books	4	19	43	N	N	Texas School Performance???	It is out of curiosity that I picked up this book at a local bookstore.  Nonchalent about the millenium American politics, the book seems to fulfill my curiosity in mind this whole business about the Texan public school performance Bush boasted about.<br />On top of the allegations being a once drug user, the book does confirm and testify George W. Bush's past. A troubled past.  He was not an exceptional but rather a mediocre student who somehow got into one of the finest school.  Bush had led a somewhat checkered life that tail-ended his family flare.  Sone said this book is a Democrat weapon served to doom the GOP.  I say this is quite an honest account of one of the lackluster presidential candidate for the century.	2000-10-29
US	51341166	R3AB7AR47VIYNV	0782117619	411905333	Excel for Scientists and Engineers	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Unveiling the Power of EXCEL in a Easy Manner	This book is one of a kind.  Scientists, engineers and students in the field are already using Excel for data analysis yet Orvis' sourcebook provides a one-flip reference to all the implemented functions of Excel.  The second edition features illustration of built-in science and engineering tools and covers Excel for Window 95, Windows 3.1, and Mac.  <br />Reader will learn not only how to calculate and plot simple equations but how to perform curve fitting; calculate statistics, numerical derivatives, and integrals; access external databases; and solve systems of equations and one- and two-dimensional differential equations.  The book also explains how to create graphics and how to use the built-in Visual Basic for Applications programming language to extend the capabilities of the Excel worksheets.  <br />Orvis himself is a scientist.  The book is based on real uses of a spreadsheet as an engineering tool.  Many of the problems were actually solved by Orvis using other techniques before he realized the full potential of the Excel spreadsheets.  Therefore the book itself helps solve real problems, not just a textbook problems.  This proves to be very helpful for those working in the lab and work on data analysis.<br />The book assume basic working knowledge with Excel; such as moving around the cells and inserting data.  It assumes basic undergrad math.  This is highly recommended for scientists and engineers.	2000-10-28
US	51341166	R3EK1AEDHAH746	0534529291	758895042	Data Analysis with Microsoft Excel: Windows 95 Edition (Business Statistics Series)	Books	4	34	36	N	N	Data Analysis for &quot;Non&quot;-Scientists	I was browsing through a local bookstore for a guide to Excel specially tailored for science and engineering applications.  I encountered this book and found it very interesting and detailed.  It is written in plain English that conveys the message very well.  For readers are looking for info about using Excel for statistics (pertaining to business, economics, and social science), this is the perfect book.  Yet it does not extrapolate and contain all the necesaary info on science and engineering applications.  I still recommend this book for non-scientists.	2000-10-27
US	51341166	R2G8OEHJ5YGPEQ	0486656225	142882763	General Chemistry (Dover Books on Chemistry)	Books	5	66	69	N	N	Pleasure Reading	Linus Pauling's treatise on general chemistry is exciting and interesting.  The book presents very basic but in-depth discussion of chemical phenomena such as thermodynamics and molecular structure.  It is clear, reader-friendly, and easy to read.  It is not meant to be just a textbook but a fun book for evening reading.  No mathematical background is assumed.  I recommend this book for undergraduate students as well as everyone who is interested in reading science but curbed by all the mathematical manipulations.	2000-10-14
US	51341166	R2DUKWSR5UKZO9	0486648710	17809324	Introduction to Quantum Mechanics with Applications to Chemistry (Dover Books on Physics)	Books	5	55	61	N	N	Second Pauling Book Review on the Roll	Linus Pauling's treatise on quantum chemistry is even more brilliant than that on general chemistry.  His vivid and clear explanation makes quantum theory so interesting and appealing to learn.  Instead of going through the obscure mathematics and operator mechanics, Pauling conveys the essence of quantum mechanics in very simple language.  Maybe this is how Pauling distinguishes himself as a Nobel Prize laureate.  I studied Donald McQuarrie &quot;Physical Chemistry: A Molecular Approach&quot; (you may find my review for McQuarrie here as well) and found McQuarrie so much more understandable than Atkins.  Yet Pauling's account on the subject is even more concise and motivating.  The book teaches basic concepts but also ensures understanding of applied theory.  While &quot;Introduction to Quantum Mechanics&quot; might not be as reader-friendly as its counterpart in general chemistry, I highly recommend this book for all chemistry students and those who want to adventure in advanced chemistry.	2000-10-14
US	51341166	R34RZEYZ7JQQ0L	0486691861	251053358	Modern Quantum Chemistry: Introduction to Advanced Electronic Structure Theory (Dover Books on Chemistry)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Good Supplement to Basic Physical Chemistry Text	I found this treatise on quantum chemistry very useful as some of the generic physical chemistry texts like McQuarrie and Atkins do not cover more advanced topics.  The presentation on perturbation theory and self-consistent field are very detailed and clear.  This book can serve as a supplement to the basic texts.  The treatment on Green functions are somewhat more obscure but is one of the better coverage among other texts.  Inorganic students will also find this book useful in explaining the underlying quantum principles of chemical bonding and eletronic structure.  Highly recommended.	2000-10-14
US	51341166	R37I3T8VUNCPSM	0387985409	36052318	The Art of Writing Reasonable Organic Reaction Mechanisms	Books	5	21	22	N	N	An A+ Guide to Organic Mechanism	Organic chemistry is rapidly-expanding field.  New reactions pop out every day in research.  How do you manage to secure the skills in writing and understanding these organic mechanisms?  Many students try very heard to memorize reaction patterns yet unfortunately not able to master the concepts in mechanisms.<br />This book is meant to fill this gap.  It introduces to ligoic behind the organic reaction mechanisms.  By looking at nucleophilic or electrophilic species, kinetic suggestions, lone pairs, possible synthons and leaving groups, disconnection approach, students are exposed in a wide-range of reactions.  The goal of the book is to enable students to write correct and logical mechanisms for reactions that are not seen before.  <br />This book should accompany any undergraduate organic text and/or serves alone as a text for advanced course. Highly recommended.	2000-10-12
US	51341166	R3ILTATIYA8OEG	0471190314	665059067	Comprehensive Organic Transformations: A Guide to Functional Group Preparations, 2nd Edition	Books	2	6	23	N	N	Hoping Big but Disappointing	The title &quot;Comprehensive Orgainc Transformations&quot; strikes me with much hope that all representative functional groups tranfer and reactions will be fully explained and included in one volume for easy reference.  Well, not so quick.<br />Cited references from this volume might be the only (+) that I will credit to the piece.  The organization of the book is extremely perplexing and weird.  It is not very easy to find a reaction that I desire.  In fact, the details for transformation are disappointingly little.  If you plan to get this book with the same expectation, you should turn to Jerry March's Advanced Organic Chemistry or the Beilstein Cross-Fire Organic Reaction and Compounds software.  Any advanced texts on organic synthesis will give you more details.  <br />Oh, by the way, the price () is just stunningly high and ridiculous.	2000-10-04
US	51341166	R3RKWFHGQAB83I	0306200015	914748673	IR-Theory and Practice of Infrared Spectroscopy	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Old But Still Very Useful...	Published over 30 years ago in 1964, &quot;IR Theory and Practice of  Infrared Spectroscopy&quot; has served students and become one of the  classics texts in the subject.  Unlike many texts in molecular spectroscopy  and physical chemistry, this book meets the need for an introductory text  devoted entirely to IR and can be utilized even by those who approach the  study with no previous background.<br />The section on IR theory focuses on  explaining the principles that are most frquently encountered in current  literature and research.  Presentation of theory is clear, succinct, and  thorough.  It, however, is not a utterly theoretical presentation that will  baffle undergraduates and beginners.  <br />You might have to find this item  from the library or used bookstore.  It is no longer published.	2000-09-16
US	51341166	R287G3UIP76PPU	019855947X	158735330	Molecular Quantum Mechanics	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Quantum Mechanics in Chemistry	I cannot say that this is a strict quantum mechanics text that would be  used for a quantum physics course, for the absence of core idea like  operator mechanics, ladder operators and the such.  Yet &quot;Molecular  Quantum Mechanics&quot; definitely shines and has proven itself to be a  much better (in details, explanations, readability) text than  &quot;Physical Chemistry&quot; written by the same  author.<br />&quot;Molecular Quantum Mechanics&quot; focuses on aspects of  quantum mechanics in chemistry, especially in applications on spectroscopy  (infrared and Raman) which roots in the ideas of rotation, vibration,  anharmonicity, and centrifugal distortion.  It also discusses advanced  topics like nonlinear spectroscopy and computational chemistry.  The book  is written in thorough details and a very organized manner.  I recommend  &quot;Molecular Quantum Mechanics&quot; along with McQuarrie's  &quot;Physical Chemistry: Molecular Appraoch&quot; for anyone who would  like to learn about quantum chemistry.	2000-09-15
US	51341166	R1CARMQ0TLOW2G	0345340906	824798811	That's Not What I Meant!:  How Conversational Style Makes or Breaks Relationships	Books	3	22	45	N	N	Are We All Freaking About Misunderstanding Each Other?	Tannen addressed problems in interpersonal communication, which is caused  by metamessages, cultural difference, disparate conversational styles and  choices, and misunderstood intentions (especially between men and women).  With no doubt this is quality and eye-opening information to know and to  keep in mind.  Yet Tannen's account also provokes widespread fear that  people will no longer communicate with one another at the risk of hurting  or misunderstanding others.<br />I believe that we should all keep in mind  cultural, gender, and ever age differences in using metamessages and  communicating through body languages and facial expressions.  People might  choose to speak indrectly to avoid confrontation or be polite.  Yet I don't  agree with the fact that &quot;the more contact people have with each  other, the more opportunities both have to do things in their own way and  be misunderstood.&quot;  In a way, Tannen is giving people (especially  couples with problematic marriages), an excuse not to talk things out and  express what's in mind and on their hearts.<br />Conversations, if abiding all  the rules and guidelines according to Tannen, will become manipulative.  Everything becomes taboo in the household and people will only feel more  isolated.  People misunderstand others (in many occasions), because of  unspoken bitterness, frustration, and shameful thoughts that don't want to  be confronted.  They let out frustrated emotions and blow out no small  thing like &quot;Where do you want to go dinner?&quot; or some silly little  argument that later on becomes fights.  People will NOT be able to speak  from the heart until they make a decision to be vulnerable and open.  Think  about why people feel frustrated - because they cannot be completely open  about their lives.  They are afraid to be confronted, challenged, and even  asked how they are doing.<br />Misunderstanding might play a little part, but  you cannot solve relationship problem solely by casting the  misunderstanding.  Deal with deceit and fear in heart.the  misunderstanding.  Deal with deceit and fear in heart.	2000-09-14
US	51341166	R449ZX8AU9ERG	0582462363	548581776	Vogel's Textbook of Practical Organic Chemistry (5th Edition)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	The Bible for Organic Laboratory	I took an undergraduate course on advanced organic laboratory method and  Vogel was meant to be an incredible reference and life-saver.  The  overwhelming size of the book might seem somewhat frightening yet the  useful information is worth the size and money.<br />Pavia's  &quot;Introduction to Organic Laboratory Techniques&quot; might seem to be  a water-down version of Vogel.  Vogel is extremely well-written and  detailed in laboratory tecniques such as chromatography, distillation,  HPLC, crystallization, extraction, etc.  A chapter is also devoted to  discussion of solvents and reagents, which helps tremendously for  separation experiments.<br />Vogel also discusses aliphatic, heterocyclic, and  aromatic compounds and introduces spectroscopic methods.  Vogel is  recommended for advanced lab course that requires frequent modification of  lab procedures and reference for chemists.	2000-09-13
US	51341166	R3V5BE7CSBUO7N	093570275X	422468451	An Introduction to Error Analysis: The Study of Uncertainties in Physical Measurements	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Easy-To-Read Text on Error Analysis	Many undergraduate students in sciences and engineering must have  encountered this experience:  You conduct an experiment and collect the  relevant data.  You are asked to fit your data into a straight line by  performing one or multiple linear regression.  You are also to present any  uncertainty and error in your data as well as calculation.  You panic and  scratch your head and don't know what's the appropriate procedure to carry  out these analysis.<br />Here comes John Taylor's &quot;An Introduction to  Error Analysis&quot;, which introduces the study of uncertainties to  students.  The book assumes no prior knowledge and uses a plethora of  pertinent examples (drawn from chemistry, physics, and engineering) to  illustrate topics like propagation of uncertainties, random uncertainties,  rejection of data, least-squares fitting, and distribution.<br />This book  will save hours of studying and researching on error analysis method.  It  is very well-written and reader-friendly that lower division students will  find it useful.	2000-09-12
US	51341166	RANCYQZ6TIQQZ	0935702482	22687752	Synthesis and Technique in Inorganic Chemistry: A Laboratory Manual	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Bravo!	A course on inorganic synthesis and reactions should involve the  preparation of inorganic compounds using vacuum line, air- and  moisture-exclusion, electrochemical, high-pressure and other synthetic  techniques.  It should investigate the kinetic and mechanistic studies of  inorganic compounds.<br />&quot;Synthesis and Techniques in Inorganic  Chemistry&quot; simply fulfills all the above purposes.  While  undergraduate chemistry usually doesn't focus on inorganic laboratory, text  written with this much details is a rarity.<br />With 23 experiments and an  appendix on techniques, this lab text covers cutting-edge research type of  experiments on superconductivity, molecular sieve zeolite-X and  buckminsterfullerene (C60).  Organometallics is also covered with  experiments on organoiron and metal carbonyl cluster.  The classical  coordination compounds synthesis and mechanism and vacuum line synthesis  can also be found in this text.<br />Students can pace and select experiments  from all major topic areas over the course of one semester.  This is a  great resource and reference for modifying existing experiments and shaping  up lab techniques.	2000-09-10
US	51341166	R258J2O6FVZ6CM	0471854247	791015979	Fundamentals of Molecular Spectroscopy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Perfect Reference on Spectroscopy	The undergraduate physical chemistry lab course required us to perform at  least 2 experiments on spectroscopy.  Experiments could be drawn from  infrared spectra, electronic-vibrational absorption spectrum, Raman  spectroscopy, and magnetic susceptibility of transition metal ions in  solution.<br />While introductory physical (quantum) chemistry course only  gives students an overview of spectroscopy and its applications, this book  provides excellent information about different types of spectroscopy and  their usages in laboratory.  Many will find it very useful to consult this  book before proceeding on spectroscopy experiments.  It will also serve as  a reference tool for practicing chemists and professionals who need a  refresher in the subject.<br />It covers basic spectroscopy techniques,  vibrational spectroscopy, rotational spectroscopy, infrared, Raman on  diatomic molecules and polyatomic molecules.  One great tool.	2000-09-09
US	51341166	R2Q9CBJ4AXFO7K	1568361343	377681645	A Borrowed Place: The History of Hong Kong	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Rarity on Hong Kong History	There used to be a saying that &quot;the sun never sets on the British  Empire&quot; because of the incredible number of colonies the Great Britain  governed.  The internationally-focused handover of Hong Kong to Chinese  sovereignty in 1997 historically marked the end of both British ruling over  the Chinese financial capital and the legend of the once mighty empire.<br />A  British and former international banker, Frank Welsh touched based with  both Chinese communist ruler and British officials in the determination of  Hong Kong's post-colonial scope.  A full account with lucid details on the  coming of joint-declaration cosigned by the Bristish and Chinese government  in 1984 was included in this one-volume history of the Pearl of the Orient,  also dubbed the Heart of Asia.<br />Upon the end of Opium War and the seizure  of Hong Kong by UK more than 150 years ago, the British authority has  miraculously turned a fishing village to a world-known financial and  business capital.  &quot;A Borrowed Place: The History of Hong Kong&quot;  is a written account that witnesses the political, social, and economical  history of the colony exploited by the Great Britain.   The timely release  of this volume in July 1996 sets the tone of the fearfully waited handover  in exactly one year, on July 1, 1997.  The book concludes with speculation  on post-handover life and socioeconomic aspects of the city.   One of the  major concerns of natives, democrats, politicians, and even the Taiwaneses,  is whether the highly-proclaimed &quot;One Country, Two Systems&quot;  approach will function efficiently for, at least, 50 years, as firmly  promised by the Chinese Communist power in Beijing.<br />This book is about  changes.  It is a recollection of events that help transforming a fishing  town to the busiest port.  It is, however, also a witness to whether the  promise made by Chinese government will be fulfilled.	2000-09-07
US	51341166	R1DIS7C60OAV9C	962201772X	103130585	Hong Kong: A Cultural and Literary History	Books	4	3	4	N	N	You Have To Use All Your Senses...	Published shortly after Hong Kong's handover to China in July 1997, Tim  Nutt and Chris Bale made history by capturing the inspeakable of the 6  million of this Asian capital.  <br />Ten individuals, all Hong Kong natives,  express unspoken thoughts, feelings, emotions, and scopes as they prepare  thier hearts and totter toward the new era in history, Hong Kong's return  of sovereignty to Chinese after more than 150 years of coloniality.   <br />Heart-felt sharings of many are combined with captions and beautiful  full-color photographs and artwork for an uplifting view of the  transformation of the financial and business capital. <br />This book is a  pictorial history of the colony that will serve as a witness to the past,  present and future of the Pearl of the Orient.  The countenance, the pulse,  and the heart-beat of the people are captured in this collage.  Highly  recommended.	2000-09-07
US	51341166	RSQ9SNG22QO8X	1566911087	824764720	Moon Handbooks Hong Kong: Including Macau and Guangzhou	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Another Great Tour Guide on the Pearl of the Orient	This is 1 of the 2 tour guides I recommend for Hong Kong besides Fodor's.   As a local who grew up and used to live in Hong Kong, I was both surprised  and excited about how much foreigners can dig deep through this city.   Post-colonial Hong Kong still preserves the heart-beat of Chinese heritage  underneath the burgeoning veneer of high-tech development and finances.   <br />The official airline of Hong Kong, Cathay Pacific unveiled its newest  operation logo couple of years back with slogan &quot;Heart of Asia&quot;.   The Hong Kong Tourist Association (HKTA) strived to revive tourism that was  correlated with the regionwide stock market plunge in 1997 by launching the  campaign &quot;Hong Kong: City of Life&quot; in 1998 to attract visitors.   Featured was a 7-day-6-night package from the US including airfare and  hotel for $899 including tax.  <br />Dubbed &quot;Heart of Asia&quot; and  &quot;City of Life&quot;, this volume of &quot;Hong Kong Handbook&quot;  will surely be your pocket guide to explore this exotic capital of Asia.   The book included history and remarkable events associated with this newest  Chinese SAR (Special Administrative Region), along with its rich mixed  cultures and lifestyles.<br />In addition to the usual tips on fine dining,  hotels from 5-star to no-star, shopping bargains and transportation, this  handbook devotes incredible amount of pages on almost all the districts  within the city.  It would be a tremendous loss for any Hong Kong visitor  to stay in central (downtown) area and the usual tourist spot like The  Peak, Ocean Park and Po Lin Monastery.  This handbook guides you to local  areas like Mongkok, Yaumatei, and even outlying islands Po Toi Island, Tung  Ping Chau, and Cheung Chau.  One of the preserved wildlife area, Sai Gung  Peninsula, is illustrated with lucid photos.  You might wish to allocate  3-4 days hiking through the trails that provides panoramic view of the  South China Sea.<br />The Hong Kong Handbook offers more than just a packaged  tour can satisfy.  You might completely stay away from urban areas and  venture through monasteries or explore one of the biggest man-made water  reservoir Plover Cove.  The border with mainland is just 15 miles from the  main financial center.  The guide would be a must-have for those who wish  to see the other side of Hong Kong.	2000-09-06
US	51341166	R1URUG0WLBR86U	0691029008	909489770	Designing the Molecular World	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Chemistry Update w/o Mathematical Rigor	Enzyme technology?  Molecular sieve?  Nanotechnology?  You'll find clear  and illustrative discussion of these current topics in Philip Ball's  &quot;Designing the Molecular World.&quot;  Though the impact of chemistry  is ubiquitous, the author contends about the usual emphasis and coverage on  physics, astronomy and biology.  I tend to agree with this point as one  might not even find a chemistry section in a decent-sized independent  bookstore.  Major chains would have one yet the selection is unfortunately  poor with titles like &quot;Chemistry the Easy Way.&quot;  Ball also  retells the discovery of buckminister fullerene C60.  Don't be discouraged  by the introductory physics remarks, you will find this book very  interesting and open your eyes to the up-to-date chemistry research.	2000-09-05
US	51341166	R16H0DZZX7MS9	0471629782	961641359	Concepts and Models of Inorganic Chemistry	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A Thorough Text on Inorganic Chemistry	&quot;Concepts and Meodels of Inorganic Chemistry&quot; is neither an  encyclopedia of descriptive inorganic chemistry nor a textbook of  structural inorganic chemistry.  The book is organized into six major  parts:  Basic concepts, bonding structure, chemical reactions, coordination  chemistry, organmetallic chemistry, and selected topics.  <br />This text  distincts itself from Cotton's &quot;Basic Inorganic Chemistry&quot;,  Shriver's &quot;Inorganic Chemistry&quot;, and Misseler &amp; Tarr by the  amount of information and details presented in each chapter.  Inoformation  regarding chemical reactions is presented within a framework of concepts  and models that help readers organize and retrieve chemical knowledge.   Descriptive chemistry is woven into almost all chapters and is the subject  of special topics chapters.<br />Atomic and molecular structure, symmetry and  bonding are discussed n very thorough and detailed manner.  Almost all the  topics in DeKock and Gray's &quot;Chemical Structure and Bonding&quot; are  included in this volume.  Topics that are usually discussed briefly or  omitted altogether in many inorganic chemistry texts are given special  attention: stereochemistry models, spectra and bonding, and inorganic  mechanisms.  Section on organometallic chemistry can serve as an ideal  supplement for an organic course.   &quot;Concepts and Models of Inorganic  Chemistry&quot; will suit a two-semester inorganic chemistry sequence.   While no major texts can cover all the topics in bonding and structure,  main group elements, transition metals and spectra, this text has fulfilled  all the above purpose.  The text is written in a more advanced level than  Shriver and Cotton.  Well-written book!	2000-09-05
US	51341166	R3MTFQO6M0DZF7	0070570744	48779080	Experiments in Physical Chemistry	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Comprehensive P-Chem Lab Text	One of the most comprehensive physical chemistry lab text, SGN discusses  about calculations and presentation of data, uncertainties in data and  results, background and theory for each experiment.  Experimentals are  extremely clear and detailed, though individual instructors might develop  modifications.  The uncertainties section might be supplemented by John  Taylor's &quot;Introduction to Error Analysis&quot; for more in-depth  reference.<br />Experiments are groups into topics like Gases, Transport  Properties of Gases, Solutions, Electrochemistry, Kinetics, and  Spectroscopy, etc.  The text also devotes incredible amount of pages on  electronic devices, vacuum techniques, instruments and lab procedures for  reference.  Many lab texts are published, yet SGN might be the best for  students.	2000-09-05
US	51341166	R5K93ENIRRQLS	0471629782	961641359	Concepts and Models of Inorganic Chemistry	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A Thorough Text on Inorganic Chemistry	&quot;Concepts and Meodels of Inorganic Chemistry&quot; is neither an  encyclopedia of descriptive inorganic chemistry nor a textbook of  structural inorganic chemistry.  The book is organized into six major  parts:  Basic concepts, bonding structure, chemical reactions, coordination  chemistry, organmetallic chemistry, and selected topics.  <br />This text  distincts itself from Cotton's &quot;Basic Inorganic Chemistry&quot;,  Shriver's &quot;Inorganic Chemistry&quot;, and Misseler &amp; Tarr by the  amount of information and details presented in each chapter.  Inoformation  regarding chemical reactions is presented within a framework of concepts  and models that help readers organize and retrieve chemical knowledge.   Descriptive chemistry is woven into almost all chapters and is the subject  of special topics chapters.<br />Atomic and molecular structure, symmetry and  bonding are discussed n very thorough and detailed manner.  Almost all the  topics in DeKock and Gray's &quot;Chemical Structure and Bonding&quot; are  included in this volume.  Topics that are usually discussed briefly or  omitted altogether in many inorganic chemistry texts are given special  attention: stereochemistry models, spectra and bonding, and inorganic  mechanisms.  Section on organometallic chemistry can serve as an ideal  supplement for an organic course.   &quot;Concepts and Models of Inorganic  Chemistry&quot; will suit a two-semester inorganic chemistry sequence.   While no major texts can cover all the topics in bonding and structure,  main group elements, transition metals and spectra, this text has fulfilled  all the above purpose.  The text is written in a more advanced level than  Shriver and Cotton.	2000-09-05
US	51341166	R1R1Z6BDWPT38L	0679003584	281148043	Fodor's Hong Kong 2000	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Could Be One of the Best Local Guide	As a native who grew up and used to live in Hong Kong, it is always fun  and entertaining to read about these wonderful and exciting accounts about  the city from the eyes of foreigners.<br />A restless and vibrant city with  more than 6.5 million inhabited on 1071 square miles, Hong Kong is the  center of the Far East, dubbed &quot;Pearl of the Orient&quot;.  A  tour-guide of 200 or so pages probably can't portrait the exciting  lifestyles led by locals and all the fun this island has to offer.  <br />Yet  Fodor has done quite an awesome job.<br />In addition to the usual tidbits on  &quot;how to get there&quot; and the A-Z guide, Fodor team really does the  homework and presents the city with unusual details and point-of-interests  that are not commonly known to foreigners.  A city made up of the Kowloon  peninsula, the Hong Kong Island (where major financial and business center  locates), and 235 outer islands, one would have to explore the outlying  islands, whether inhabited or not, in order to complete travel experience  in Hong Kong.  Fodor delivers vivid and lucid photos of the islands as well  as shopping guidelines, food and drinks, and destivals and seasonal  events.<br />There is no best time to visit in Hong Kong.  You might want to  avoid the summer months of hot and humid weather.  A stroll around the  Central District will expose you to the heart of the city - financial  district.  You will also find historical monuments left by the British  empire, which once ruled over this colony for 150 years.  A walk up the  mid-level from Central introduced dozens of specialty restaurants which  serve from bagels to cajun chicken to pita bread.  <br />Be sure to Fodor with  you on your next vacation to Hong Kong.  Read and study it and you will  find your travel experience rewarding and exciting.  Like many tour guides  published, local cultures and hang-outs are never sufficient and infact,  visitors are usually advised to stay away from &quot;local&quot; areas; yet  I recommend you walking through the local neighborhoods i Hong Kong, which  are relatively welcoming and safe.  You will find surprised delights like  roasted goose, exotic Chinese pastries, and hand-made crafts.	2000-09-05
US	51341166	R3PQ1ZB7HWOXB2	0465072666	992120214	The Periodic Kingdom: A Journey Into The Land Of The Chemical Elements (Science Masters Series)	Books	3	36	42	N	N	Water-Down Chemistry	If you don't know a thing about science, particularly chemistry, or  someone who prefers to read science in a casual approach, go for this  book.<br />If you're hard-score sciencist and especially a chemist, go ahead  but don't expect this book to fulfill all your savors and wonders.  <br />I  tend to agree on one of the previous review commenting on this book being a  6th grade reader - well, the point is, what's wrong with it being an easy  and pleasurable reading?    If Atkins gives a detailed, hard-core account  of the periodic table in this book, the non-science folks will probably not  even make to page 5!  Less all the quantum mechanics, wave mechanics and  Bohr model and electron spin.... This book certainly spices up readers'  curiosity with interesting easy-to-relate analogies.  For those who would  like to read some chemistry on an airplane flying across the continent,  this book will definitely not wear you out.  Chemists, chemistry students  and hard-core scientists...it's ok to take a break from all the obscure  theories and amuse at Atkin's canny account of the periodic table that is  so familiar to you.	2000-09-04
US	51341166	R3JN0PYX2U9TTA	0961704489	458555916	Hiking Marin: 133 Great Hikes in Marin County	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Marin Hiking on Your Finger Tips	As a Bay Area local, I've always stood in awe of the breath-taking views  and natural wonders of the Marin coast.  Attempts to conquer and explore  this piece of jewel have never been better with the aid of this Marin  hiking guide.  It provides clear and detailed descriptions of over 120  trails in Marin, with illustrations, maps, and level of strenuousness.   Featured in each trail are points of interests, what-to-see info, plants  guide, and milestones.  <br />I found the sections on Point Reyes National  Seashore particularly useful.  A land in motion, the Point Reyes Peninsula  is an unusual, dislocated land that long baffled geologists.  The rocks of  this craggy coast match those of the Tehachapi Mountains some 310 miles to  the south due to the constant motion of the Earth's crust.  The varied  surface patterns of Point Reyes are more obvious than the normally slow  changes underground.  You can see streams and estuaries cutting through the  landscape of folded hills and valleys.  Awaiting visitors are many miles of  beaches within sight of Douglas-fir and Bishop pine forests.  <br />Whether  you're impressed with the motion of Point reyes and want to explore the San  Adreas fault, of just a family planning on a weekend trip to Stinson Beach,  or just a ride showcasing the beauty of the Pacific Ocean in Marin  Headland, this Marin hiking guide has got the info you'll need.  It is one  of the best and thorough guide especially devoted to hiking in Marin.	2000-09-01
US	51341166	R3AOIH7KK3UIUX	0896584100	114612428	1000 Airlines in Color	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Don't Have A Whole Lot to Offer	Don't let the title of the book fool you.  <br />1000 Airlinesseem to be a great buy.  Not too fast.  This book offers nothing more  than a &quot;quick&quot; (I mean, very quick.) reference for some of the  most obscure airlines in the world.  A plethora of pictures and of  above-average quality, each picture only comes with a blurb.  Details of  each airline are omitted and some don't even take up a third of a page.   <br />Organization of this book is quite eerie.  A lack of content makes it  very difficult (and annoying) that you'll have to look up an airline in the  back index from time to time.  Not recommended.	2000-09-01
US	51341166	R2FPMLVXKDJE78	0760306532	135905982	LAX: Los Angeles International  Airport	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Should Be Renamed &quot;Airlines Serving LAX&quot;	Name change required.<br />With much expectation and joy, I picked up this  book at a local bookstore hoping to find info about the airport layout and  architecture.  Flipping one page after another, pictures of airlines and  aircrafts with careful captions, my joy slowly dwindled and turned to  disappointment.  Pictures and captions are all nicely done except this is  not what I want.  <br />&quot;LAX: Los Angeles International Airport&quot;  should be renamed &quot;Airlines Serving LAX&quot;.  This is more or less a  field guide showcasing all the major airlines operating out of the airport.   There is not even one blueprint on the airport layout, runways and  passenger terminal.  Had it not titled LAX, I wouldn't even bother to pick  it up from the shelf.	2000-09-01
US	51341166	R2OW43IFEGR7MZ	0760306850	941736853	Chicago O'Hare: The World's Busiest Airport	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Another Disappointment	Another name change required.<br />Like &quot;LAX:Los Angeles International  Airport&quot;, this book on ORD offers nothing more than pictures of  airlines serving this world's busiest gateway.  The author might aim to  portrait and showcase this busy hub by displaying a plethora of pictures of  aircrafts, unfortunately omitting all information regarding history,  operation, and behind-the-scene aspects of ORD.<br />Don't expect a layout of  airport and its architecture.  This is an airline guide.	2000-09-01
US	51341166	R3GVKB165TWKBR	0030206936	640369371	Pushing Electrons: A Guide for Students of Organic Chemistry	Books	4	34	34	N	N	Students Should Read This Before Organic Course	Adoption of hard cover for this book indicates that it has been more  widely used as a supplimentary text for organic courses.  Indeed just as  the title suggests, this serves as a guide to &quot;push electrons&quot;,  the main principle behind writing reasonable mechanisms for organic  reactions.  Many students, unfortunately, find writing mechanisms extremely  difficult and have no clue of how to begin.  This book does not present  chemistry of major functional groups, rather focuses on discussing how  electrons shall move properly.  Students who consider taking organic  chemistry should at least read through this book, as a prerequisite check  for your knowledge of electron structures and feel comfortable about  directions of which electrons move.  Excellent tool for organic student  except that now students have to pay a higher price for the hard-cover  version.	2000-08-29
US	51341166	R2UURM2WJVDW9U	1572591307	898494843	Listen	Books	4	38	38	N	N	You Will Find It More and More Interesting	With the accompanied 6 CDs, Joseph Kerman has written one of the most interesting and comprehensive introductory music text.  Not so much a memory-and-fact type of textbook, Kerman's uncanny ability to describe music experience has made this a success.  Students do not need musicianship prerequisite to read this book.  From ancient to modern, the book gives a broad overview of some of the masterpieces with insights and explanations.  Excellent reading. <i>(Note: The 6 CD set mentioned in this review is sold separately, and is not included in the price of the book. -Ed.)</i>	2000-08-29
US	51341166	R1RL96UCRU3R46	080661711X	914835175	Friendship Factor: How to Get Closer to the People You Care for	Books	4	25	31	N	N	This Book Can Change Your Life	I found this book on a friend's bookshelf and I thought it was a joke!   Who needs to read a book and learn to be agreat friend?  Well, you will  regret if you don't!  This is not some bogus self-pitious help-yourself  remedial series; but points out some practicals that we always feel  embarrassed to do.  For example, it's OK for a guy to tell a male friend  that he loves him and cares for him.  It's absolutely acceptable to give  hugs, shake hands, and touch.  Many people oversee the very important fact  that friends are always there to suffer with and to cry with.  I guess this  book doesn't teach you just to be a better friend, it helps you to be more  vulnerable and open wth your friend.  Remember that you've got to be a  great friend in order to have yourself a great friend.	2000-08-29
US	51341166	R29901EXAITD71	0878915125	783914115	Organic Chemistry Problem Solver (Problem Solvers Solution Guides)	Books	3	17	17	N	N	Do The Textbook Problems First!	Like &quot;3000 Solved Problems in Organic Chemistry&quot; from Schaum  study series, the problems in this problem solver are just a bit off from  what you will expect on a midterm exam.  Problems are either too simple or  too involved.  Students should make sure they understand lectures (and  concepts behind lectures) and attempt problems in the textbook.  Students  should pay close attention to mechanism problems and stereochemistry.  The  problem solver itself might seem overwhelming and may not be in concord  with concepts being discussed in major organic texts.  The problem solver,  yet does provide a plethora of extra problems students can look at and try  solving.  Another item I suggest students checking out from the library  rather than spending money on.	2000-08-29
US	51341166	R22UVW58KN42S2	0195069188	922235133	An Introduction to Molecular Orbitals	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Thorough Treatment of MO Yet Not The Most Easiest to Read	This book introduces the ideas behind electronic structures and how these  structures affect the overal molecular orbitals.  A sustantial content of  this book discusses mechanics of assembling reasonable molecular orbitals  for different geometries.  Begin with the periodic trends of atoms, the  treatment MO progresses to many-electrons systems and complicated  molecules.  It also emphasizes the role of symmetry in forming appropriate  (allowed) molecular orbitals.  The second-third of the book discusses the  use of fragment orbital method in assembling MO for linear, triangular,  tetrahedral, and hexagonal system.  The text concludes with application of  MO to chemical reactivity pattern.  Examples include cycloaddition,  aromatic transition state, conjugated pi system and the Markovnikov's Rule.   This book would be appropriate for students who have finished one year of  organic chemistry and at least one semester of inorganic chemistry that  focuses on chemical structure and bonding.  Not an easy text for first year  student.	2000-08-28
US	51341166	R30EE0B8MYM5AV	0691024170	348587138	QED: The Strange Theory of Light and Matter	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Quantum Physics Less All the Math	Richard Feynman stands out from other physicists in his witty ability to  explain physical phenomenons in a simplistic way.  Quantum physics (or  quantum theory) is by far the most fascinating yet the most perplexing  subject ever studied in recent-to-present history.  I was lucky to have  come acorss Feynman's &quot;QED&quot; while I was taking undergraduate  quantum physics.  Feynman adroitly explains the path of an electron without  discussing vectoral analysis.   He clearly conveys the ideas behind quantum  theory by translating the obscure mathematical notations and manipulations  into plain language understood by readers who are not in the science field.	2000-08-28
US	51341166	R3SG3OBMC5GV9X	0070564248	408786204	3000 Solved Problems in Organic Chemistry (Schaum's Solved Problems) (Schaum's Solved Problems Series)	Books	2	11	13	N	N	Check It Out From Your Library	The book is your source to a plethora of additional problems.  Yet don't  expect the exam problems to be similar to those you find in this Schaum  series.  You might find some of these problems extra strenuous or  over-simplified.  For all the major functional groups, the book does  provide lots of practice problems in reaction products, reactivity, and  stereochemistry.  You might need to cover up the solutions which  immediately follow the questions.  Students should foucs on soloving the  mechanism-type of problems from textbooks before looking at this book.   Check this out from your library!	2000-08-28
US	51341166	R1TC57GEILXG8Y	0471361585	578360759	Fundamentals of Biochemistry with Take Notes and Biochemical Strategy Set	Books	4	41	42	N	N	Appropriate for the 1st Biochemistry Course of a Sequence	All 3 major biochemistry texts were being used at the univesity where I  attended:  Lehninger was used in a one-semester survey course for  biological science students whose emphasis was not biochemistry and/or  molecular biology; Voet was the chosen text for the first of a 2-semester  sequence in biochemistry; and Stryer was selected for the second half of  the sequence.  As an undergradate student, I was grateful that the authors  (joined by Pratt) produced a fine version instead of the original Voet  &amp; Voet main text.  This revised, modified version is more succinct,  clear, with excellent graphics and photographs.  The level of content in  this version of Voet is no less intense and thorough than the other 2 major  texts, with a special attention on chemistry as well.  One star is taken  off due to the high price!	2000-08-28
US	51341166	R4M3OP5FRPAUI	0842379304	356669380	Walking with the Savior	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Spiritual Renewal	Combining with selected inspirational writings of Max Lucado and  scriptures, this exquisitely printed pocket-sized giftbook challenges and  at the same time encourages Christians to renew their walk with God.  Lucado expressed joy and hope in uplifting our spiritual walk with God  through beautiful full-color photographs and artwork.  Christians are  challenged and encouraged in the areas of living in grace, forgiveness from  the Father, worship, strength from shepherd and prayer.  I received this  book as a gift from a friend on a special spiritual occasion.	2000-08-28
US	51341166	R7RVH4FB9KAEM	0805042083	376805314	The Body's Edge: Our Cultural Obsession With Skin	Books	4	1	1	N	N	You Will Learn Just As Much As Reading a Medical Reference	You will learn just as much as reading a medical reference, except Marc Lappe adroitly puts it all together in a plain text.  We are all very  obesses with colors and appearance of our skins yet neglect the fact that  skin is the front-line boundary against an inimical world.  Therefore, more  than to your anesthetic sense of beauty, the skin provides resistance and  separates us from the outside world through a thinnest of margins.  Lappe  discusses how the newly discovered permeability of the skin, long  recognized by other cultures, has lead to the use of drug-bearing patches;  how potentially harmful chemicals penetrate the skin; how vulnerable  we  are to particular environments.  You have to read it yourself and discover  &quot;skin&quot;.	2000-08-28
US	51341166	RTJ66WLB290E4	0201394529	448663264	Biology	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Great For MCAT Review	This book widely used as the text for introductory biology course in  universities.  As pre-med students, many of my friends kept this text even  after they finished the intro course for future reference.  Whether you're  studying for the MCAT on your own or taking prep courses with Princeton or  Kaplan, you will refer to Campbell for information.  It is well-written  (with full-color photographs and artwork), clearly illustrated, and easy to  read.  The price of the newest edition (this book does renew edition pretty  often) is somewhat too high; yet you will find it very helpful especially  for studying the MCAT.	2000-08-28
US	51341166	R3VL2G5U2GOQ94	0030265665	915897343	Introduction to Organic Laboratory Techniques: Microscale Approach	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Excellent Lab Text But Not Everyone Has To Buy It	Though a complete laboratory text with 50+ experiments, lab techniques,  tables of unknowns and spectroscopy, the organic faculty prepare our own  lab manual to be followed.  Pavia text becomes a close handy reference for  lab techniques and setup.  The techniques section, which include  filtration, crystallization, distillation (simple, fractional, and steam),  chromatogrpahy (column, thin-layer, and gas)... should be carefully studied  before conducting experiments for beginning students.  Unless your organic  lab course follows almost exactly the outline of experiments in this text,  you can check it out from the library and read it.	2000-08-28
US	51341166	R2A3HFP9I9GLP3	0582446953	298665104	Guidebook to Mechanism in Organic Chemistry (6th Edition)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Valuable Reference for Organic Chemistry	Peter Sykes' guidebook formats more as a reference to organic reactions  such as nucleophilic substitution, electrophilic substitution, nucleophilic  addition to carbonyl, elimination reactions, radical reactions and  symmetry-controlled reactions such as pericyclic reactions.  It is well  written, clear, and succinct that undergraduate and graduate students will  welcome it as a companion to an organic course.  Sykes also discusses  topics that are often omitted in an introductory text such as carbocations,  electron-deficient species, carbanions, and linear free energy  relationships.  It can be thought of a compact version of Jerry March's  Advanced Organic Chemistry, which is widely used as a graduate text.  As a  purchase guideline, I also purchased Hoffman's &quot;Organic Chemistry: An  Intermediate Text&quot;, and Bernard Miller's &quot;Advanced Organic  Chemistry&quot;, which treat the subject of electrocyclic reactions and  cycloaddition more thoroughly.  The portable size of Sykes makes it an  excellent source of reference.	2000-08-27
US	51341166	R2WMES78I4O6YA	093570261X	771429249	Chemical Structure and Bonding	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Excellent and Succinct Treatment of Chemical Bonding	This book was selected as one of the few textbooks for my undergraduate  inorganic chemistry course.  It discusses the concepts of atomic structure,  atomic and molecular properties, molecular orbital theory, electronic  structures, and frontier orbital theory in a very understandable and  succinct way.  The concepts and relationship between structure and bonding  is built up progressively throughout the text.  The fundamental concepts of  bonding ideas that lead to the development of MO theory is discussed in a  very logical manner, with applications to transition-metal complexes,  solids, and liquids.  Every chemistry student shall find this text very  useful in explaining the essence of chemical bonding.  It explains topics  and aspects of chemical bonding about which general chemistry textbooks  tell you not to worry about for the moment.	2000-08-24
US	51341166	R3AM9TXQV5EUZW	019855575X	890877420	The Meaning of Quantum Theory: A Guide for Students of Chemistry and Physics (Oxford Science Publications)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Quantum Theory in Plain Language	A book devoted to the development of quantum theory, Jim Baggott gives  readers a much-desired rest from the mathematical rigidity of the subject.   This book is fun, pleasant, and easy to read.  It introduces the  fundamental and key ideas of quantum theory through clever, to-the-point  analogies and diagrams.  Many physical chemistry students, or just science  audience, will welcome this plain approach of the subject.  Landmark  concepts such as operators, postulates, Pauli principle, Bohr-Einstein  debate and Bell's theorem are covered with a lucid and thoughtful account.	2000-08-24
US	51341166	R9Q9547M8I07	0935702997	208022686	Physical Chemistry: A Molecular Approach	Books	5	61	64	N	N	The Only P-Chem Textbook You'll Need	One of the most emerging fear of P-Chem students is the rigid dificulty  and obscureness of the mathematical background.  Many textbooks have  unfortunately overseen the importance of treating the mathematics and  establishing link between the mathematics and the physical interpretation  of chemical phenomenon.  McQuarrie's text addresses and amends this problem  in a brilliant.  Difficult mathematical concepts are integrated along with  the appropriate topics and are presented in a concise fashion.  The first  half of the text discusses topics in quantum chemistry while the rest deals  with thermodynamics, statistical mechanics,and kinetics.  All the equations  are backed by clear explanation and mathematical derivation.  When I took  quantum chemistry (the first course of the P-Chem sequence), we used  McQuarrie and it worked just fine in explaining all the topics covered in  lecture.s (such as spectroscopy, perturbation theory, etc).  Unfortunately  professor from the second semester (thermodynamics) decided to abandon  McQuarrie and used instead Atkins' Physical Chemistry, which is absolutely  not worth the money and very confusing and difficult to follow.  I kept the  McQuarrie book and used that as study aids and reference, whereas I trashed  Atkins as soon as the semester was over (well, I immediately sold it back).  McQuarrie is the only P-Chem book you'll find useful and clear.	2000-08-20
US	51341166	R194Q2KAPT0JN9	1889392022	402214194	Bridal Bargains: Secrets to Throwing a Fantastic Wedding on a Realistic Budget	Books	4	84	87	N	N	Great Wedding Budget Planner	As the Best Man of my friend's wedding, I referred to this book in a  zillion occasions for practical advice.  From the wedding count-down clock  to ceremony etiquette to wedding apparels and catering and limousines, this  book has got it all!  You might not need everything covered in this guide  yet it will be very useful for almost every aspect of your wedding.  I  personally find the sections on reception sites and catering particularly  interesting and useful.  The book provides a lot of hand-on tips that are  not usually commonly known.  Ever wondered about a dessert reception  instead of a traditional 2-entree banquet?  What about a wedding being held  at a local university faculty club that offers in-site catering?  This is  the one book that you will have to keep your fingers on throughout wedding  planning.  The newest edition of this book will come out this fall, yet  don't worry about the up-to-date figures and costs.  Focus on the variables  that will directly affect the cost of your Big Day.  Each topic features a  section of questions to ask the service provider (i.e. florist,  entertainer, DJ, caterer, reception site...) If you really want to make the  most of your budget, read this book carefully and read over again.	2000-08-20
US	51341166	R23XSX6H292YNL	0521462177	587764763	Understanding Organic Reaction Mechanisms	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Making Predictions about Mechanisms	Ever wonder why organic reaction mechanisms go the way they do?  How do you know if reaction is first- or second-order, or concerted?  This book provides a clear perspective on different factors that determine reaction  mechanisms:  molecular orbitals, acids and bases, thermodynamics and  kinetics, roles of carbocations, carbanions, carbene, nitrogen, sulfur,  oxygen, etc.  It can accompany any undergraduate text and would be perfect  reference and/or supplement for an advanced course treating reaction  mechanism.  It addresses topics like pericyclic reactions, Hammett equation  and techniques for investigating mechanisms.	2000-08-19
US	51341166	R3KX0WHWUYJXOV	0716727218	314280404	Organic Chemistry	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A Well-Written Text	A very well-written text, Vollhardt covers basic functional groups in  organic chemistry and even difunctional compounds, carbohydrates,  polycyclic benzenoid and heterocycles.  With very plain language and  explicit illustrations, each chapter provides a summary of new reactions  and plenty of exercises.  The intensity of this book is along the line with  McMurry's Organic Chemistry.  This book is suitable for especially students  studying biological sciences who need an overview in organic chemistry.	2000-08-19
US	51341166	R1RVNKID0YR1O1	0716728710	788234677	Physical Chemistry	Books	2	20	29	N	N	Difficult to Follow	The lack of mathematical derivation of therodynamic relationships make  this text very difficult to follow.  The author had inadvertently and  audaciously assume students can derive and master all the mathematics  behind these therodynamic relations.  As a reulst, students are forced to  memorize these relations and play with the mathematical statements WITHOUT  knowing the physical interpretation pertaining physical chemistry.  The  sections on solutions and mixtures are extremely poor-organized and  difficult to comprehend.  Aside from the content of the text, the small  weird print is just too annoying and the price is ridiculously high.  Not  recommended.	2000-08-19
US	51341166	R1NQ2ROA34F6B6	0471987794	220909282	Selectivity in Organic Synthesis	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Asymmetric Synthesis Made Simple	Suitable for organic chemistry students taking a course on synthetic organic chemistry or asymmetric synthesis in upper division of graduate  level, &quot;Selectivity in Organic Synthesis&quot; fills the gap between  fundamental concepts and reactions of undergraduate organic chemistry text  and the much-complicated journal articles that requires in-depth  understanding of the chemistry.  This book focuses on stereoselectivity of  carbonyl compounds and alkene reactions - with clear explanations on  kinetic resolution, symmetry and formation of chair-like transition states  leading to the stereospecific products.  The text, overall, is intended to  be concise, readable and interesting.	2000-08-17
US	51341166	RJ58RKC1CD8UL	0060956410	889503795	Wheelock's Latin, 6th Edition	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Not a Perfect Text But Good For Beginner	Despite of all the negative comments and even the severe attacks on this old text, Wheelock's Latin offers one of the better text for beginning  Latin students.  Adaptations and abbreviations from Latin prose are  understandably and reasonably quoted as a paced guide to learning the  language.  Grammar is explained in a very easy-to-follow manner.  I  recommend this text for beginning students and those who wish to refresh  the basic grammatical rules of Latin.	2000-08-17
US	51341166	R3M1EB914S4CTL	0679750061	255611086	Sahara Unveiled: A Journey Across the Desert (Vintage Departures)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Vivid Picture of the Sahara	A travel narrative classic:  Mr. Langewiesche provides a vivid picture of the formidable Sahara.  Every chapter of the journey brings us new  surprises and aspects about this arid landscape.  From the safari to  physics of sand dunes, this book introduces us the anthropology,  archaeology, meterology, geography, geology and history of the desert.  Get  ready and let's begin this eye-opening virtual tour of the Sahara!	2000-08-16
US	51341166	R1F7OZQTO8NYN5	0679746749	379344497	Why We Get Sick: The New Science of Darwinian Medicine	Books	4	16	19	N	N	A Different Perspective	This book offers a stimulating challenge to medicine and a thoughtful discussion of how (Darwin) evolution theory applies to us.  Mr. Nesse and  Mr. Williams provide a careful survey about how evolutionary factors can  shape and affect human health - the causes and effects are being discussed  in a plain-language manner.  Have you ever thought about how the sneezing,  the fever, and the coughing are all front-line responses of our immune  system?  Why do you think the once-eradicated TB come back with a more  potent strand?  The book provides a refreshing yet convincing view that  bacterial resistance to antibiotics is an everlasting arm race.	2000-08-16
US	51341166	R2BRH094TT51JZ	0874778883	651232010	Seven Years in Tibet	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Open Our Eyes to the Seemingly Unknown Horizon	I came across this book while I was browsing through the travel narrative  shelf of a local bookstore.  I decided to purchase it after i finish  reading the opening chapter!  Beyond just a Tibet practical guidebook, the  Mr. Harrer gave a true yet touching account of his expereince and bond with  the Tibetans.  &quot;Seven Years in Tibet&quot; delineates the Mr. Harrer's  strenuous entrance into Tibet and his interactions, whether hospitable or  not, with government officials, the nomads, and the monks.  I recommend  this book for all who wonder about traveling in Tibet or just wanting to  know more about this mysterious piece of land known ans the &quot;roof of  the world.&quot;	2000-08-14
US	51341166	R301S4IBHN06KA	0133732754	872959594	Advanced Organic Chemistry: Reactions and Mechanisms	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Intermediate Organic Chemistry	I found this book very helpful and useful before I started my graduate  studies in chemistry.  It serves to fill the gap bewteen materials covered  in a regular 1-year organic chemistry sequence and the graduate-level  courses.  I took an advanced organic course in undergraduate and  Sundberg/Carrey's Advanced Organic Chemistry was chosen as the text.  Mr  Miller's treatment of advanced topics like electricylic reactions,  cycloaddition reactions, sigmatrophic reactions, linear free energy  relationships, etc are very clear and easy-to-follow.  If you find other  advanced texts complicated to read, you might want to pick up a copy of Mr  Miller's text.	2000-08-14
US	51341166	R3PRFZSOIVB2D7	0471101613	561709034	Organic Synthesis: The Disconnection Approach	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Retrosynthesis Primer	The book treats the subject of organic retrosynthesis in a very clear  fashion.  It will be a perfect companion for students taking sunthetic  organic chemistry course.	2000-08-14
US	51341166	R12EC5EVIWPUG1	0139738509	734853051	Introduction to Organic Chemistry, Revised Printing (4th Edition)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Perfect Text and Reference for Chemists and Chem Students	This is a very hard-core and detailed treatment of the subject of organic chemistry.  Ideal for chemistry majors, this book has served as a refresher for me as a professional chemist.  The book assumed mastery over general  chemistry and the prerequisites of chemical structure and bonding.   Practice problems are only to help develop further insight and application  of the chemistry presented.	2000-07-19
