US	51346929	R2DOEM33R5U8VK	0842351116	738792927	Quick to Listen, Slow to Speak	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Simple yet profound	The concepts put forth in this book are not earth shattering theology.  They are simple principles taught in Scripture, expounded in a very engaging manner.  Principles that are seldom really practiced in our day to day interactions with other people.  This book deals much of what comes out of our mouth, and I believe the title is rather self-explanitory. <br /> <br />This would be an excellent book to use in Bible studies at home or at Church, and if you were to follow the principles established in this book, you would see your life revolutionized (a word I do not use lightly).	2004-09-04
US	51346929	R1AQAYZNPAVY8D	0764222023	703940036	12 Steps for the Recovering Pharisee (like me)	Books	4	17	19	N	Y	A challenging book	The essence of this book boils down to being humble, merciful, thankful, and dependent upon the righteousness of Christ.  Once one embraces these principles, one is well on the way to becoming a recovering Pharisee.<br /><br />My main issue with the contents of this book is its attitude towards living a victorious Christian life.  The author SEEMS to teach the common bumper-sticker theology of \\"The only difference between me and an unbeliever is I am forgiven.\\"  He seems to resign his audience to the fact that we must always continue to sin.  He states very bluntly on p. 95 \\"although not sinning is not possible, we choose to perpetuate the false belief that it is, rather than face the truth.\\"  Frankly, this just flies in the face of Romans 8, especially Romans 8:12 that says \\"we are under obligation, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh.\\"  We as believers do not have to continue on living in sin.  We are not at all obligated to fulfill the desires of the flesh.<br /><br />We have been given victory through the power of the resurrected Christ to live according to the desires of the Spirit instead of the flesh.  Does such a state make us any less in need of the grace and mercy of God?  The author seems to think so.  Quite the contrary, had we just sinned only once in our entire life, and we all have, then we would still be dependent upon the grace and mercy of God to live our lives should we ever repent and \\"go and sin no more\\".  We don't have to continue on sinning so that we can continue to receive mercy.  A believer who is living in victory over sin is just as dependent upon the grace of God as is the Christian who is struggling with some sins.<br /><br />Anyway, I'm not attempting to preach a sermon, this is just a book review.  Despite what I believe to be the major fault of this book, I believe that there is still much to be gleaned from the pages of this book.  The pages of this book has caused me to appreciate even more the mercy of God that has been shown to me, and the willingness to demonstrate this mercy to others.that has been shown to me, and the willingness to demonstrate this mercy to others.	2004-08-30
US	51346929	R1WMDSY7IOXZ5W	0060652950	94824058	The Great Divorce	Books	2	7	56	N	N	Interesting story, but not very christian	A wonderfully written story with many wonderful moments in it.  Lewis paints a very vivid picture in this book, and the allegories in it are for the most part, easily seen.  This book is an allegory of Heaven and Hell, and how the realities of Heaven are greater than the realities of Hell.  This book follows around some folks from Hell who are given the chance to visit Heaven, and shows how those from Hell want nothing to do with Heaven.  Especially delightful is Lewis's understanding of humanity, and why those in Hell would rather choose Hell than Heaven.  Of course, some of these things are not doctrinally sound, but Lewis says in his preface that he wasn't trying to be sound in everything to begin with.  After all, the Bible says nothing about a bus trip from Hell to Heaven, allowing those who take the trip to possibly say.   <br /> <br />As many clever things as there are in this book, I believe Lewis ruins his own book.  I was shocked to see a writer who has left such a deep an impression upon Christian thought in the last century to be using unjustifiable profanity throughout this book.  The profanity only takes away from the book, and I believe that Lewis deeply misrepresents Christ in using it, and that the Christian reader, no matter how much he has been blessed by the other writings of Lewis, would do well to stay away from this work.	2004-08-20
US	51346929	R120MKYGO6HIDP	0875085792	269883136	The Way to Pentecost	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A good read	This short little book is a good meditation on the power of God in the baptism of the Holy Spirit.  The book reminds me a bit of A.W. Tozer's \\"Knowledge of the Holy\\" which is very devotional in nature.  Some of the book is a bit repetitive as this is simply a collection of articles that Chadwick wrote.  Thus, chapter after chapter does not build on previous insight from other chapters, and one is not taken as deep as you might go in other books.  Still though, there are some absolutely profound chapters in this book.   <br /> <br />In addition to this book, one would do well to read Leonard Ravenhill's \\"Why Revival Tarries,\\" and Jim Cymbala's \\"Fresh Wind, Fresh Fire,\\" \\"Fresh Fiath,\\" and \\"Fresh Power\\" trio.	2004-08-12
US	51346929	RD0FQSTJ9VNBA	0875090486	535885118	A.W.Tozer: A Twentieth Century Prophet	Books	3	19	19	N	N	Disappointed in content	I had much hopes that this book would be a wonderful biography on A.W. Tozer.  However, there is only actually one chapter in the entire book that even tells anything about his life.  Perhaps the most interesting thing in the 16 pages actually written about his life is that he got saved through listening to a street preacher, and sometimes he would preach in the streets and organize in-house prayer meetings shortly after he got saved.   <br />After that first chapter, the rest of the book is simply an intellectual biography of Tozer.  It mentions some of his most famous works, and explains some of his theology.  It also heavily quotes things he wrote in jouranl articles.  If one is already well read in Tozer, this book will probably not give too much additional insight into his life or thought process.<br />Also, I would've given this book 4 out of 5 stars, but page 181, which was supposed to contain a list of Tozer's favorite books that he read, isn't printed in this book!  Page 181 is listed in the table of contents... but there is no page 181!  That is simply unacceptable.  Perhaps my copy is defective... but still, unacceptable.	2004-07-16
US	51346929	R4TFZHLI9UTQU	0875085784	746100782	The Path of Prayer	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Nice devotional type reading	This is a wonderfully, simply written book on prayer that anybody can understand.  Though perhaps an example or two is a bit dated, as it has been nearly 100 yrs since this book was written, so the author uses some examples that most people probably will not quite understand.  There is much light that Chadwick gives on prayer, and I enjoyed what he had to say.  However, I do feel there are stronger books on prayer by E.M. Bounds and Leonard Ravenhill that might take one deeper than this book does.  Still though, one should not pass this book up.	2004-07-15
US	51346929	R1FYBHTBXIENFN	031023008X	587331934	Fresh Power: Experiencing the Vast Resources of the Spirit of God	Books	5	14	14	N	N	One of the best to date...	This is perhaps one of the best books I have ever read on the power of God, and how we should desire it for the callings God has placed on each of our lives.  This book will perhaps make non-Pentecostals  much more uncomfortable than the previous two books in this series... but at the same time it will probably challenge many Pentecostals/Charismatics as well.  <br />As Cymbala walks us through the book of Acts, he calls us to earnestly seek the baptism of the Holy Spirit, and subsequent refillings.  Cymbala says we should not focus on what manifestation occurs with the baptism of the Holy Spirit, as the Scriptures do not limit it to tongues specifically.  Rather, what the Scripture was concerned about was a demonstration of the power of God.  Legitimiate demonstrations of that power... not the many things that are counterfeits passed off as God's power.  This power is not to be confused with emotionalism.  Rather, it is to be the power God uses to demonstrate that Christ is alive and on the throne today.  A power that changes the lives of others.<br />It's a shame that this book hasn't received as much attention as Fresh Wind, Fresh Fire.  This book is probably just as good as the first book of this series, if perhaps not better.  Cymbala's comments regarding the Church Growth movement is especially insightful.  I hope this book finds its way into many Bible Colleges, Pastors, and the traditional pew dwellers.  <br />If you have enjoyed books by such individuals as Leonard Ravehill (author of 'Why Revival Tarries,' 'Sodom Had No Bible,' etc.), then you will greatly enjoy this book, and the entire 'Fresh...' series.	2004-06-07
US	51346929	R27D8U9PI8GXJV	0310230071	448742100	Fresh Faith:  What Happens When Real Faith Ignites God's People	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Not some Neo-Charismatic Hoopla	Praise God, a wonderful little book on faith that isn't written from some sort of hype centered around &quot;positive confession&quot; and acting like problems we encounter in life really don't exist.  Filled with powerful real life examples of faith in action, Cymbala shows us how faith overcomes even the most difficult of problems we are faced with, including deep inner trama's from our past.  <br />He also shows us that the Church has gotten off track, being more concerned about building programs and cash flow, yet these are things Paul was never concerned with with the congregations he oversaw.  Rather, he was concerned with the level of faith each congregation had, knowing that if a congregation's faith was off, then everything else would be too.  He says we as the Church need to live in the spirit of anticipation of what Christ is going to do, instead of simply living in the here-and-now or in our past.    We need to be a people constantly trusting upon the promises of God.	2004-06-03
US	51346929	R2DAK4CCS7RG0O	0310251532	486315575	Fresh Wind, Fresh Fire: What Happens When God's Spirit Invades the Hearts of His People	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Fresh indeed	What a refreshing book indeed.  This book is a powerful call back to the boldness to seek God at His throne of grace.  It is a call to prayer, boldness, and a deeper walk with God.  Cymbala shows us that it's not about clever church-growth strategies or psuedo spiritual warfare techniques that causes the the Church to thrive.  Rather, the Church thrives only when it only truly makes its business to seek God, and be satisfied with nothing less than God.   Prepare to be challanged and awakened to a deeper hunger for God after you read this book.	2004-05-28
US	51346929	R8EYFRXMX0W3S	0801038324	367637517	Christian Ethics: Options and Issues	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Decent introduction to Christian Ethics	This book is a decent introduction to Christian Ethics.  Geisler starts with survey's of various approaches to Christian ethics, and then moves into various ethical issues such as abortion, war, ecology, and other major ethical topics.  In each chapter, Geisler reviews what different positions on various topics are: for, against, and somewhere-in-between.  He offers Biblical and philosophical criticisms of each surveyed position.  The end of each chapter contains some suggested books for further reading.  <br />There are some draw backs to this book though.  Firstly, this book sometimes seems to read more like a stero manual, especially early on.  Secondly, though this book tries to be objective in its survey of various views, Geisler tends to make it very evident what he believes the proper view is, and usually reserves his personal views for the end of each chapter.  Thirdly, after the first 8 or 9 chapters or so, I tended to find myself simply skimming the book, as it became pretty easy to anticipate what he was going to say... which made the book rather dry to read.  Forthly, I think it would have been nice if Geisler included a chapter on birth control.  Finally, I think this book is a little out of date, and probably could use more interaction with more influencial theologians on each side of the various debates.<br />This book makes for a good introduction to Christian ethics, though it is not exactly a page turner.  Ideal perhaps for Bible college text- which is why I read it.	2004-05-22
US	51346929	R1O9L1ZN04AVIK	0268015546	489507256	The Peaceable Kingdom: A Primer In Christian Ethics	Books	2	28	89	N	N	A lot of fluff	Hauerwas is like many theologians out there who say a lot about something without really saying much at all.  <BR>While there is much to commend this book on, most of it is surrounded by fluffy long sayings that don't actually mean very much.  <br />Hauerwas does well to point out as Christians we should not attempt to do ethics without qualifying our ethic as distinctively Christian, and that our ethic is built upon the foundations of the narrative of Scripture as well the community that is to embody that narrative- the Church.  Also, I like how Hauerwas stresses that deciding what actions are ethical can only be properly understood based on our understanding of &quot;being&quot; a Christian.<br />As commendable as all this is, Hauerwas does not deal too much with what the Scriptures actually say.  He tends to make assumptions that sound like they are Biblical.  For example, Hauerwas tends to put a virtue such as peace on top of his hierarchy of virtue.  Yet, he doesn't really attempt to explore what the Scriptures say on peace.  He eventually comes to understand peace as non-violence/war.  However, is such Biblical?  However, if that is so, then why did Jesus tell his disciples to carry around a sword?  If Jesus was against violence, then why did He affirm the use of violence as a means of establishing justice, by dying on the cross?  Scripturally speaking, there is a time when justice must choose violence in order for justice to be established.  Scripturally speaking, there is a time for war (Eccl 3:8).  <br />It is ironic that while Hauerwas has much to say for Christians being faithful to the narrative of Scripture, that Hauerwas turns so little attention to what the Scriptures say.  He consistantly is vague in dealing with the Scriptures, and really does not interact with them throughout this book.  He simply pays mere lip service to them.  He seems much more interested in interacting with Barth, MacIntyre, McCormick, Niebuhr, and Yoder, than with Jesus or Paul.  <br />I am not totally against the pacifist position, and it has much appeal to me.  I believe that Christians should not participate in war that is ultimately selfish in nature.  I believe if Christians partake in war, then it should only be for the purpose of defending the nation, or protecting another nation that is completely innocent.  I believe such can be justified from the fact that Romans 13 teaches that the government has been given the sword by God.  <br />It does not take much of a leap in logic to say that if Christians are part of that government that has been given the sword, then Christians have the right and duty to, when is warranted, to participate in war in the name of justice.  Even Hauerwas himself admits that he has sympathy for this position, and admits that it cannot be discounted as a possibility for Christians (p. 114-115).  However, he refuses to really even dialogue with this position and simply says that most the time that justice is not really the underlying issue of why a war is waged.  Then he goes on to say that true justice is never established through violence; in spite of the fact that justice was established through the violence of the cross.  <br />Ultimately the position Hauerwas takes up is that the Christian should rely on providence as the only option instead of taking up arms, and being patient enough to do so.  This isn't exactly earth-shattering theology.  All that Hauerwas does is a lot of tap dancing throughout this book, with the occassionally impressive maneuver that impresses the crowd.	2004-05-21
US	51346929	R2LF2CV4NQ2Y0O	0830822208	13566057	Out of the Saltshaker & Into the World: Evangelism as a Way of Life	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Breathtaking	I have read several books on Evangelism and have personally found this one to be the best.  It is not only written in an extremely engaging, fluid style and in relatively plain language, but the stories the author tells are very well used.  <br />This book I also believe is the most practical evangelism book I have read.  Instead of simply another how-to evangelism book, this book seeks to provoke a response out of you to want to make evangelism part of your life, not simply something you do once a week.  It seeks to impart practical wisdom in making evangelism a way of life.  If you are not planning becoming a street corner preacher, yet, have the strong urge to evangelize, this book is surely for you.  Even if you are a street corner preacher (as I am), this book is for you as well.	2004-05-19
US	51346929	RUWLCCL5L976X	0830813659	644616677	Going Public with the Gospel: Reviving Evangelistic Proclamation	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Has it's good moments...	This book makes many wonderful points, and at times is very exciting to read.  The authors make very good points about many things concerning the gospel, prayer, discipleship, etc.  The exhortation to take the gospel public is very strong, and I don't think many could have it put it much better.  There is also a brief history of the public proclomation of the gospel that is a nice feature to the book that makes everything more well rounded.<br />However, the book has some horriable short-comings.  One thinks that this book is leading up to an encouragement to go do some old-fashioned street-corner soap-box preaching.  However, about half way through the rug is pulled right out from underneath you, and the rest of the book for the most part, turns into plugging/advertising various Mass-Evangelism Organizations and preachers.  Instead of being remotely practical, the book essentially turns into a big book on holding Crusade-Style-Evangelism, where one is pulling Billy Graham style events involving an all star cast of performers: staff/directors/cordinators, muscians, artists, volunteers who do ushering, counseling at the altar calls, and follow-up, etc.  In this book, the author states 45% of any such event will be prep work, 45% follow-up, and only about 10% proclamation of the gospel.  In all that time of prep-work of negotiating with various churches to help you in the work, renting out baseball stadiums, printing flyers, training volunteers, etc., one could have probably preached the gospel to many more throngs of people on a street corner or through friendship evangelism.  <br />Granted, I must show much respect for the author exhorting preachers to give strong messages that don't get folks trapped into easy-belivism, and reminds us at the same time that we must demonstrate the gospel in the supernatural, as well as compassion ministries. <br />Sadly, this book just isn't very practical.  One can glean many things from this book, but I think it's focus is off.  The authors seem to have lost touch of the real world to some degree, as they have forgotten to come down from the mountain top of mega-churches where they have ministered much of their lives and mass-crusades, where most churches simply do not have the option of doing 95% of what is suggested in this book. (they even bring in the mega-church's bad vocubular of meeting things like 'felt needs' and 'being relevant'; Get some books by Philip Kenneson and Os Guiness which nicely show the errors of mega-church thought.)  <br />I still would recommend you read this book.	2004-05-16
US	51346929	R5VRTBHQ3YRT8	1563382784	922869766	Beyond Sectarianism: Re-Imagining Church & World (Christian Mission & Modern Culture)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Informative... but kinda pointless.	I am a big fan of Kenneson, and cannot recommend enough his other books &quot;Selling out the Church&quot; and &quot;Life on the Vine.&quot;  However, after reading this book, I'm still scratching my head wondering, &quot;what was the point of this book.&quot;  This brief yet difficult read is full of some very informative ideas, and is written very well.  <br />However, it seems like a waste to write a book which only serves to show us that it can indeed be a good thing to be labeled a &quot;sect&quot; by contemporary theologians, as well as in the circles of sociologists, political scientists, and in general, the world.  Indeed, people ought not to simply dismiss something simply because it is labeled a &quot;sect&quot; or &quot;cult.&quot;  However, did a book really need to be written on this subject?  <br />If a community of individuals are truly embodying the narrative of the Scriptures, as Kenneson so hopes people will do, then should they not expect to have slanderous words hurled at them, and to be misunderstood?  Kenneson states: &quot;any attempt to put forward a constructive and positive sense of sectarianism will have to overcome the pejorative connotations that have accrued to the term over the years and that continue to accrue to it in its various contexts.  Given this complicated and confused situation, perhaps Christians and non-Christians alike might eschew the language of sectarianism altogether, choosing instead to find other ways of describing what they find commendable or objectionable.&quot; (p 33)   <br />The above quote nicely summarizes what Kenneson tries to do in this book, and he formulates his argument very nicely.  But there does seem to be a blind spot in it.  Christ said those who would faithfully embody the gospel would indeed suffer persecution.  So, why is Kenneson so shocked that Christian communities are dismissed for simply being the contrast-society Christ called them to be?  Why write a book that essentially asks the world inessence to, 'pick other words to label us with'?	2004-05-11
US	51346929	RFM7MSO8DHV2V	080102448X	884783954	Pneumatology: The Holy Spirit in Ecumenical, International, and Contextual Perspective	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Revealing	As a Pentecostal, I found this book very interesting.  This book exposed me to a wider spectrum of belief concerning doctrines of the Holy Spirit in Christianity than I was even remotely aware existed.  Granted, I find many of the alternative views in this ecumenical presentation rather frightening, but, ultimately, informative.  The book is well written, and easy to read, and is very well documented, though, is very unlikely to challenge individual convictions.	2004-02-27
US	51346929	RFJKVJCERRB0Q	0892836016	235009715	The Third Wave of the Holy Spirit: Encountering the Power of Signs and Wonders Today	Books	1	10	32	N	N	Dangerous	This is the personal testimony of Wagner regarding the &quot;Third Wave&quot; movement, of which he seems himself as a leader of.  It is absolutely a dangerous book, as Wagner takes a pragmatic stance on if something is of God, rather than having Scripture to back it up.  For example, concerning spiritual warfare against &quot;territorial spirits,&quot; he seems to base his theology concerning it off of the reports of folks in the mission field who have used various techniques that seem to work, and allow their churches to explode in growth.  Wagner tries to pretend he takes a &quot;undecided&quot; stance on such a doctrine, but the more you read, the more you see he's attempting to pull the fleece over your eyes.  <br />This book is perhaps crucial if you are researching this movement, but, sadly, it probably has seduced many.	2004-02-22
US	51346929	R3NV5IHNJCE81L	0913573116	675603303	The Charismatic Theology of St. Luke	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Strong defense of the Baptism of the Holy Spirit	This short book (85 pages) is a strong defense of the subsequent experience of the baptism of the Holy Spirit, as seen in Luke-Acts, and as taught by Pentecostals.  I find it interesting, that the author doesn't seem to believe (though he never flat out says so) that tongues is &quot;the initial evidence of the baptism of the Holy Spirit.&quot;  Instead, he seems to believe that any prophetic type speech (prophecy, praise, tongues) accompanies the baptism of the Holy Spirit... though he never uses famous term, &quot;THE initial physical evidence.&quot;<br />This book is a must have.	2004-01-31
US	51346929	R1UYYTV1Q2KJYE	0940232480	707766997	The Silas Diary (First Century Diaries)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	How it should be	This is a pretty good book that describes the way the church should be.  Where Sunday morning services involve everybody, not just the professionals.  This book is written in an easy-going style, that makes it enjoyable, and sometimes just plain funny to read.  <br />The only draw back about the book is that sometimes the author rants about a lot of historical things that don't really add to the book.  Also, it would be nice to hear examples of &quot;open church&quot; services where you had people that were out-of-line.  Sometimes this book is just a way bit too positive.<br />Too bad this book is out-of-print at the time of this review, but I recommend it just the same.	2004-01-27
US	51346929	RJ5S3Y8PR60TP	0802421873	901890582	Dispensationalism	Books	3	43	61	N	N	Not as "positive" as the author sets out to be	The author of this book attempts to write this book on a \\"positive\\" note.  In part, he is successful.  He starts off strong, but about half way through, he loses his composure a bit.  <br />Sometimes this book can be difficult to understand, and the author seems to assume that you already have some prior exposure to dispensationalism, and brings up some topics as an \\"oh yeah, and by the way...\\" Throughout the book, he's writing more from a defensive position, always comparing and contrasting what others have to say about Dispensationalism, and sometimes, actually figuring out what Dispensationalism teaches can be somewhat confusing.  Sadly, this is the case, especially considering how much of a \\"classic\\" this book is supposed to be.<br />I am not sure I'd describe myself as a covenant theologian, however, after reading this book, I know I am surely not a dispensationalist.  While I do not really oppose theoligians dividing history up into various economies/dispensations, as this  has been practiced for 2000 years, I have to sharply disagree with the \\"clear\\" distinction made between Israel and the Church.  This is simply not proper.  <br />Without getting into arguments about things over seed and such, Ryrie seems to really dodge a crucial issue rather poorly.  Jeremiah 31 teaches that the New Covenant would be established with the house of Israel and Judah.  Ryrie agrees.  However, Ryrie teaches that the New Covenant is not currently inargurated, and awaits inarguration in the Millineum.    He also teaches that Jesus does not currently reign as the promised Davidic king.  <br />Nevermind such a view simply does not hold up, especially in light of the book of Hebrews.  Hebrews teaches us that not only is Christ currently the mediator of the New Covenant (which was inargurated with the shedding of His blood), He is also is currently the Davidic King, who reigns from the right hand of the Father.  Ryrie says no, Jesus while He is the heavenly King, is not the Davidic King.  Yet, a read of Hebrews makes this distinction impossible.  The problem in Hebrews is this:  Jesus is both priest and king.  However, under the law of Moses, this was impossible.  For the priests came from the tribe of Levi, whereas the kings were promised through the tribe of Judah.  Hebrews reconciles this problem by declaring Christ is not a priest according to the Levitical order, rather, according to the order of Melchizedek.  However, this still leaves us with the fact that Jesus is king according to the tribe of Judah, or rather, the Davidic covenant.  If Jesus were not currently the Davidic king, then the book of Hebrews has no reason to try and reconcile this difficulty.   <br />So, the New Covenant is indeed in effect, and Jesus is currently the promised Davidic King.  All these things mind you, are of the house of Israel.  Thus, all believers (Jew or Gentile) are partakers of Israel.  It seems to escape the fact of Ryrie that God's plan was not that Israel would be a non-spiritual people.  This can be seen quite clearly in the fact that Moses calls for the eradication of faithless Israel (stoning, excommunication, etc).  Israel was always supposed to be a spiritual people.  <br />Hmm... seems the distinction between the Church and Israel is not quite as clear as Ryrie would have us believe.  I would rate this book only as 2 stars, but to be fair, this book is a very important source for studying this area of theology.	2004-01-16
US	51346929	RYYZ50XLPWICY	0310278708	375338825	Preaching & Preachers	Books	4	3	10	N	N	Practical nuggets of wisdom	This book contains many practical nuggets of wisdom for preaching.  If you are looking for a &quot;idiot's guide to preaching&quot; type book that tells you how to put together an outline, and how to write an expository sermon, and things like that, then this book is not for you.  The author of the book believes such things are abominations, and wreaks of &quot;professionalism.&quot;  He rather chooses to focus on the character of the preacher, and the character of the message.  <br />The only possibly weakness I have really discerned with the book is that while the author in the last chapter states that he believes that true preaching will always be done in the power of the Holy Spirit, and that one should only seek to preach with that power, he seems to resign himself to the professional mentality which he greatly abhors.  He seems to think it ok that if God hasn't given you anything to preach by Sunday, it's ok to open up your collection of sermons (or somebody else's sermon) and to try to preach out of that.  <br />Frankly though, I believe such wreaks of &quot;professionalism&quot; and attempting to simply do a &quot;job.&quot;  A preacher should never attempt to preach without the &quot;unction&quot; of the Holy Spirit.  If he does, then he is preaching a dead and lifeless message, and is simply being a &quot;professional.&quot;  Is there only one person in the entire congregation that is responsible and capable of hearing from the Lord, and speaking for Him?  The author seems to think so.  <br />I find it odd that he recalls several famous preachers who were involved in various revivals.  He says that they began preaching like they never had before, with great power.  But when the revival was over, they simply were &quot;ordinary,&quot; powerless preachers.  The author seems to not have any problem with this.  However, if one is a &quot;professional&quot; then preaching without the unction of the Holy Spirit is acceptable, and preaching with the power of theHoly Spirit would be more like just an added bonus/benefit.  No preacher should ever attempt to preach without the power of the Holy Spirit. <br />However, besides this one main point of contention I have with the author, I find the book to be a fun, enjoyable, and edifying read, and it should be on the shelf of probably every preacher. One will discover many valuable nuggets in this book.	2004-01-03
US	51346929	R1JIV28ED51DVT	0871234823	574858284	Revival Praying	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Put this next to your E.M. Bounds collection	This is one of Ravenhill's better books, and is a great treatment on prayer.  Though I don't think this book quite takes hold of you as his masterpiece &quot;Why Revival Tarries.&quot;  However, it is still a great book on prayer that all would do well to have on their shelves, after having heavily read it and underlined it.  Oh yeah, don't forget to put into practice what you read in this book, otherwise, you will have not gotten anything out of it.	2003-12-21
US	51346929	R1SFDIXVNI5378	0883686384	460904879	Azusa Street	Books	4	19	24	N	N	Not what I expected	This book is not exactly what I expected, and the title is a little misleading.  This book is not exactly a historical account of the the happenings of Azusa Street.  Rather, it is more like the &quot;The Memoirs of Frank Bartleman&quot; or maybe better, &quot;I was at the Azusa Street Revival.&quot;  This book is an eyewitness account of Azusa Street, and the events leading up to the outpouring of the Spirit in Los Angelas.  <br />At times, Bartleman seems to have an axe to grind, as he obviously did not agree with all that transpired at Azusa Street, and all the sects that spung forth from that movement.  This book is more of a sermon or testimony than an attempt to be a history book.<br />While I believe this book to probably be an essential to any library for Pentecostal research, but is probably a poor place to start if you are not already familiar with what occured at Azusa Street.	2003-12-17
US	51346929	R2W330DBGHQD9G	0871230135	209345780	America Is Too Young to Die	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Written in 1979, yet still just as timely.	I got this book in the mail this afternoon, and decided to just take a glance at it. Grabbing this book was like grabbing lightning. I could just not let go. I was charged by it. I was changed by it. This book is a powerful cry by Leonard Ravenhill for a life of holiness, a demonstration of the power of God, and faithfulness to the gospel of Jesus Christ.<br />I made the &quot;mistake&quot; of reading this book on the eve of taking three finals tomorrow at Bible school. I used time I could have devoted to studying for these tests to read this book instead. I do not regret it for one second.	2003-12-02
US	51346929	RQW2RA9P90HN5	0801012600	561299527	Prophetic Untimeliness: A Challenge to the Idol of Relevance	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The &quot;gods on our wrists&quot;	In this refreshingly insightful book, Guinness exposes how the Church has bowed to the idol of relevance and its relationship to time (trendiness).  The Church is too busy trying to keep up, constantly conforming itself to what the world says it needs to in order to relevant.  Too much is given to being fresh, new, up-to-date, attunded, appealking, seeker-sensitive, audience-friendly (p. 76)  The Church is too often looking to become &quot;future-savvy&quot;, producing futurism, which is a quack-science that picks up current trends, and projects them into the future, and then pretends the results are predictions (p. 77)  Leaders who have such a mind set ought to be called down as false prophets.<br />In having such a mentality, the Church actually becomes irrelevant.  Guinness teaches us the only way the Church can actually be relevant is through being faithful to the gospel, for &quot;in itself the good news of Jesus is utterly relevant or it is not the good news it claims to be.&quot; (p. 13)  Guinness calls the Church to stop being &quot;obsessed with the new&quot; (p. 77) and rather to learn from the past, and most importantly, the eternal.  <br />On a personal note, like the one reviewer mentioned, I agree this book shows the errors of the &quot;New Apostolic Reformation&quot; (the neo-charismatic apostolic/prophetic movement) in their constant stream of prophecies of the &quot;coming&quot; Church.  They constantly threaten &quot;Join us or be left behind&quot; (p. 76)<br />I also would highly recommend an equally insigthful (and much more thorough) book by Philip Kenneson's called &quot;Life on the Vine.&quot;	2003-11-23
US	51346929	R2RY9IQRMIDQN4	0736903194	339580450	No Compromise: The Life Story of Keith Green	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Amazing	It is really quite amazing the way God used Keith Green for his 7 years as a Christian.  It's an amazing the impact his ministry made in such a short time before the Lord took him home at the ripe old age of 28.  This is a pretty powerful biography.  <br />I was a little worried though over John Dawson coming into Keith's life.  He seemed to be feeding Keith some bad doctrine, even if very subtly, and seemed to be a flatterer, trying to tell Keith how big he was going to be.  His prophecies were proven false though when Keith suddenly died in a plane crash.  It's amazing how Keith, Melody, or Keith's mentors never seemed to see this.<br />Overall though, this book is a powerful testimony of what God will do with a willing vessel.  How God can raise a man out of obscurity to be a prophetic voice that, though he be dead still speaks.	2003-11-12
US	51346929	RJIEUO6B3I822	0310384915	186621545	How to Read the Bible for All Its Worth	Books	3	4	32	N	N	Good book, but is it really needed?	This book is not really that bad of a book.  Many of its suggested methods are generally good ideas to keep in mind when reading the Bible.  However, I have to ask... is such a book like this really needed?  This book is really just a technical &quot;How to read...&quot; type book.  I'd say if most people are actually able to read this book (as it can be a bit academic sometimes), then they are probably perfectly capable of reading the Scriptures and understanding them.<br />Overall though, not a bad book, which contains a few suggestions that will probably profit just about anybody in their own studies.   Like one reviewer said though, I can't believe this book is required reading at a Bible college (which is where I had to read it.)	2003-11-02
US	51346929	RFUBBHL0JC8B7	0871481995	326920113	Christian Doctrine: A Pentecostal Perspective, Vol. 1	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The ABC's	Arrington does a really good job at presenting the ABC's of Christian doctrine from a Pentecostal (Church of God- Clevland, TN) persepctive.  These books (all 3 volumes) are non-technical, and would be perfect for a sunday-school type setting.<br />The only major draw backs of this book is that Arrington does not clearly describe &quot;the second work of grace&quot; (sanctification).  I had hoped this book would better acquaint me with this doctrine that is held by the Church of God, but, I only can end up scratching my head at the end.  He seems either confused as to if he should clearly spell out this doctrine, or takes it for granted that he did.  <br />My main point of contention with Arrington would be his stance on the pre-tribulation rapture (I am &quot;post-trib.&quot;)  He doesn't even try to put up a strong argument for it, and pretty much just declares that it is true.  <br />But, Arrington spends so little time on doctrines regarding the end-times (and rightfully-so), that this point of contention overall is minor considering the rest of the 3 volumes.  I would highly recommend any Christian own this series, and think it could be well used in any Sunday school type environment.	2003-11-01
US	51346929	R3VSSIM9N8WKLO	0809105349	902859812	From Apostles to Bishops: The Development of the Episcopacy in the Early Church	Books	4	16	19	N	N	An essentail and impressive read	I picked up this book expecting not to like it, and actually started to heavily enjoy it from the start.  Sullivan looks very closely and critically at the writings of the New Testament, and the church fathers of the late-first through the mid-third century  , attempting to discover the development of the Church as an organization.  Sometimes I could not believe the words I was reading are written by a Roman Catholic.  Sullivan is not affraid to say the rhetoric of many Roman Catholic scholars that one often hears is wrong... though he ultimately agrees with the final conclusions of the Roman Catholic Church.  <br />One will find Sullivan's scholarhip and conclusions to be extremely tight, and difficult to argue with.  Though, he essentially says some of his conclusions can only be accepted by faith... that is: the post New Testament development of the Church in the second and third centuries to have been divinely guided by the Spirit.  <br />He tries to prove this saying, &quot;We have just as good reason for believing that the Spirit guided the church in recognizing its bishops as successors of the apostles and authoritative teachers of the faith as we have for believing that the Spirit guided it in discerning the books that comprise the New Testament.&quot;  (p. 230)  A powerful argument, but ultimately, only one that can be accepted by faith.  Many scholars would say the books that make up New Testament canon were well accepted by consensus of the faithful at large well before the bishops decided it in formal councils.  <br />Ultimately though, I personally believe the fundamental flaw which the author makes is the assumption that the apostolic office faded out of existance after the intial apostles and their apostolic co-workers died.  Many Pentecostals/Charismatics (such as myself) would strongly disagree with Sullivan, and would say that the New Testament points to a continuation of the apostolic office (Ephesians 4:11-13) well beyond that of the first century (Many would say it continues to exist today).  If apostles would continue to exist, then, one cannot properly say that bishops replaced the apostles and their co-workers.  I would be highly interested to see what Sullivan would think of this point of contention... one that he is probably aware of.<br />Overall, this book will probably become a classic in the study of Ecclesiology... and rightfully so.	2003-09-30
US	51346929	R2N0JBLH93KYUM	1576737098	905038645	Boy Meets Girl: Say Hello to Courtship	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Ties up loose ends	This book is a much welcomed follow-up to &quot;How I Kissed Dating Goodbye.&quot;  It clears up some of the &quot;problems&quot; many readers had with the first book.  I found the suggestions in this book to be rather practical and sound, and it is an enjoyable read with some rather touching stories.	2003-09-25
US	51346929	R1NCZRY2G42L9W	1576730360	129268418	I Kissed Dating Goodbye: A New Attitude Toward Relationships and Romance	Books	5	6	10	N	N	The bad reviews often misunderstood this book	After reviewing quite a few of the negative remarks regarding this book, I have to say many of those reviewers misunderstood this book.  This book is not attempting to convince people not to date... in fact, if you read the introduction, the author states this upfront.  Nor is the author looking to setup some dogmatic formula in place of dating.  Rather, the author seeks to challenge Christians in their approach to romantic pursuits, and their understanding of what true love is, and allowing God to guide their choice in who they spend the rest of their lives with through sound Biblical principles.<br />This book is absolutely radical, and sometimes, it just shocked me.  It challenged me greatly, and made me see my own blind spots.  I attempted to read this book when I was 17 years old (it was a gift given to me by a concerned older brother/pastor), but did not allow myself to get past the first chapter, and thought it was such a stupid book (I also skipped the intro back then).  I picked it up again recently (now I'm 21), and I was absolutely blown away, especially after reading chapter 15.<br />I look forward to reading the sequel to this book, &quot;Boy Meets Girl.&quot;	2003-09-21
US	51346929	RDPECC9HX33GE	096774024X	926560940	Prophetic Ministry	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Lack of Focus	This book starts off rather strong regarding the prophetic ministry, but only for a little bit.  About half way through, the book veers off course, and by the end of the book, I believe it almost completely shipwrecks, with very little left to salvage.  The end of the book seems to become more dedicated to some odd flavor of dispensationalism, and one almost forgets they are reading a book about prophetic ministry.  I was expecting much more from Sparks.	2003-08-18
US	51346929	RDC8T1EWMZAZ7	0882433199	913397916	Systematic Theology	Books	3	32	32	N	N	...Found wanting...	This book has many fine qualities to it.  It can act as a springboard that launches one into further study, providing good documentation, and making mention of a variety of beliefs within christiandome.  The book is very well written, giving a perfect balance between academia and inspirational type reading.  The overall structure and flow of the book is great as well, and sometimes one might forget they are reading a book that is written by nearly 2 dozen different authors.  It is a one of a kind book that will clearly convey what it is Pentecostals believe (from an Assemblies of God perspective).<br />However, there are many pitfalls to the book.  The largest one is that the book probably isn't large enough, and sometimes spends too much time repeating itself.  Some chapters can be read really briskly because you already know what is being said...because it had been said before in the book.  This space would have better been filled with more dialogue between sources.  Too often, some crucial opposing views that have some validity are given such a brief glance that it is absurd, and is not treated.   <br />Take for example, the Four Square Church (Pentecostal) view that speaking in tongues is not &quot;the&quot; evidence of the Baptism of the Holy Spirit, but that one may receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit, and speak in tongues, or prophesy, or operate in many other giftings.  This book simply brushes this view off, which has much validity, and calls it simply a &quot;charismatic&quot; view-point (without even naming the denomination that holds to this).  From a book written toward a Pentecostal perspective, you would expect some dialogue with other Pentecostal circles!  Such seems a bit dishonest to me.  <br />Also, there are many crucial issues out there that this book does not even try to shed any understanding on or even bring up.  Issues on Christ fulfilling the law, dispensationalism, and the like are not even addressed!  Probably because there is such a diversity even within the Assemblies of God regarding these things...so they decided to not even touch it.<br />If you are looking for a general overview of many Christian doctrines, and an introduction to Systematic Theology, and more dialogue between sources, consider elsewhere.    But, how could you expect 638 pages to contain much more? (Note: There are more pages, which includes a solid bibliography, a brief theological dictionary, and an absolutely poor index.) <br />If you are looking for a theology book that tells what the Assemblies of God believes (and in general, does a good job defending), then consider getting this book.	2003-07-20
US	51346929	R1EOCJ0TAEX2BA	0310224810	403391375	New International Dictionary of Pentecostal and Charismatic Movements, The	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Great Reference	This is a great reference book containing a virtually endless source of information regarding terminology, people, events, doctrinal issues, organizations, etc. concerning the Pentecostal/Charismatic movements across the entire world.  This book contains many charts, diagrams, pictures, maps, and statistics that would be very useful for those who are doing any sort of research.  Whenever possible (which is very frequently) each topic that is presented contains further bibliographical information for further research.<br />My only complaint with the book is that sometimes some of the various contributors to any number of topics can often be uncritical, and are obviously just writing from a highly biased view point, with little regard to other view points from other charismatic/pentecostal circles are- and this can be deceptive.  For example, on &quot;Spiritual Warfare&quot;, the author of this topic is writing from what I would regard as a dangerous point of view, and consider it heretical.  And the bibliographic references would only lead people to further error, disregarding more balanced, more scriptural views.  <br />However, I have found my own complaint (so far) to be the exception, rather than the rule.  Most of what I have read seems to present a balanced view of things...though there are so many things discussed in this book that it would be impossible to independently verify.<br />This is a must have book for anybody with remotely any interest in pentecostal/charismatic studies.	2003-07-07
US	51346929	R1YSOGQO70A3TH	0687361591	516902516	Resident Aliens: A Provocative Christian Assessment of Culture and Ministry for People Who Know that Something is Wrong	Books	4	8	9	N	N	We are Christians, so, be the Church	This book is about what it means to be the Church, and more importantly, the Church in the world.  <br />This book is often critical of various theologies/philosophies that form the very foundation of the Western world, and how the Church has viewed (and consequently, interacted with) the world.  Frankly, if you are not already familiar with the philosophies and theologies this book interacts with, you (like myself) will fill somewhat lost trying to figure out what exactly the authors are trying to say.  I say this as a Jr. in Bible College.  This book is probably better off read by those who are finishing Seminary.  <br />I will have to read this book a second time to get a better feel for what it is saying, because my lack of upper-level education makes it difficult to interact with.  I feel that many will probably have to do the same.	2003-06-24
US	51346929	R3CEV0CTGBQMNA	1589600010	87353176	The Reformed Pastor	Books	4	22	26	N	N	Solid material	Baxter's time was not too unlike our own.  Despite there being a large theological agreement that there must be discipline within the Church, very few leaders in the church are willing to carry it out.    Baxter reminds us, and convincingly so, that we must do so for not only the good of the soul of the individual, but for the rest of the Church, and even ourselves.  Most of the book rotates around the subject of discipline in the pastoral ministry.  It also contains many other details concerning the ministry that would be good for any aspiring, or current pastor to read.<br />The only reason I give the book 4 stars instead of 5 is because this version is the abridged version of what Baxter wrote years ago.  However, there is nothing that would tell you this unless you read the preface.  I was a little disturbed upon originally reading the preface that this was the case, and that the original work is closer to 700 pages (depending on margins and type settings). This book has a rather tiny font size, and very little margin, so even though it is only over 100 pages, if it were in the typical type setting you see in most books, it would probably   be closer to 3-400 pages. <br />Also, the ancient Elizabethean english has been revised for the modern reader, which probably accounts for the shorter number of pages.  <br />Don't let any of this distract you from getting this book though, there are still many redeeming qualities to it.	2003-06-23
US	51346929	R12BP5TCLBXAE3	1556610734	785307022	Getting Evangelicals Saved	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Ooops!	Reidhead wonderfully shows that getting saved is not simply saying &quot;uh-huh&quot; to basic doctrinal questions.  He exposes the plague that has come upon evangelical christianity.	2003-06-19
US	51346929	R25CO2DSTYA2Z7	0060652934	963630731	The Screwtape Letters	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Brilliant	I am in the minority of individuals who did not care for C.S Lewis's &quot;Mere Christianity.&quot;  Picking up this book, I thought would be just as bad as &quot;Mere Christianity,&quot; but it turned out to be quite the opposite- simply brilliant.  Lewis has amazing insight into what makes a man tick, and where the thorns are in his flesh are.  I plan on reading this book a second time in the near future to better capture the fullness of what it has to say.	2003-06-18
US	51346929	R3DD1878J54C4C	0060652926	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	2	11	24	N	N	I was disappointed	I had heard so many good things about this book, and have known of its sacred position amongst countless Christians (of which I am.)  However, I was disappointed with this book.  <br />Sadly, C.S Lewis opens this book by attempting to prove God through logic.  While I think Lewis makes some pretty good arguments (though you won't find much in these arguments that you've not heard before from other great thinkers), that does not mean they are bullet-proof arguments.  Many will think of Lewis's arguments as greater than they really are, simply because he is able to adorn it with a very powerful and fanciful command of the English language and imagery (But that should not be unexpected, as he is a literary scholar from Oxford.)  One thing that is always shocking to see is that a great deal of many Christians boast of how you can prove God through philosophy.  But, many are not willing to accept you cannot.  You cannot come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ through 'Mere Philosophy.'  You can only come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ by having a revelation of Christ in your heart because the gospel has been proclaimed.  Despite this, Lewis attempts to prove God not through the power of the gospel, but through man's ability to reason.  The gospel message itself seems like but a 'Mere Ornament' by which Lewis decorates his Christmas tree (philosophy).  <br />Lewis also goes about describing the Christian life and doctrines, and what it means to be a new creation and other such things.  But, despite talking about Christian things, he tends to lean on logic and fanciful parables than on Scripture.  Lewis puts some things remarkably well, and has some great insights to these things.  But, it is burried in a bunch of things he need not have said.  <br />Also, Lewis in this book only claims to being able to defend and talk about the Christian position as is generally embraced by all of Christiandome.  And usually, he does not deviate from this pattern in his book.  However, when it comes to doctrines concerning free will and evolution, he seems to deviate from the purpose of the book.  I believe in free will, and I do not believe in evolution, but, Lewis talks about these things as if they were commonly embraced by Christiandom at large.  When in fact, many branches of Christianity do not believe in free will, nor do they believe in evolution.  <br />There are many other flaws with the book, of which I will not get into.  If you have not read this book, do consider reading it, as it is one of the most popular books written in the last 100 years.  However, you would probably be better off getting a copy from the library than giving amazon.com money for this.  You could find a better book out there to put on your bookshelf.	2003-06-16
US	51346929	RMU7OCZILWK08	1880089475	411367345	God's Generals: Why They Succeeded and Why Some Failed	Books	4	16	19	N	N	An Unusual Book	Without a doubt, this is perhaps one of the most unusual collection of biographies on various Christians I have ever read, and probably should be on your bookshelf.  It sometimes tends to be more of a commentary than a collection of biographies, but, not overly so.  Maybe a better word than &quot;commentary&quot; is a sermon, because Liardon tends to warn would-be ministers of potential snares through the individuals he writes about.  A word of warning though, I have to say to be careful, as it seems that Liardon, and some of the preachers he seems to think highly of had some probably serious errors in their preaching...errors that Liardon does not address because he tends to agree with them.  One will see his blind spots in this book.  These errors tend to manifest themselves in the &quot;Word of Faith&quot; movement, of which I have disagreements with (though I am very much a Pentecostal).<br />Also, I must say that I am a little curious as to why Liardon selected to write about the individuals he did.  The introductory pages are very short, and give no hints.  However, if one closely examines this work, you will begin to notice each of the individuals in this book had some sort of significant influence on an individual later in the book (as the book does cover the lives of various preachers of roughly 75-100 years).  Also, some individuals written about seemed to run in some of the same circles.  Most of the individuals in this book are the healing-evangelist-revivalist type...though not all.<br />In general, a book worth having.	2003-06-11
US	51346929	R1JLUAK9IWHOR3	0883682796	652767640	A Divine Revelation Of Hell	Books	1	23	46	N	N	Utterly False	I do not doubt that Mary K Baxter had some sort of revelation, but it was not from the Lord.  This book has some interesting stuff in it, and some things, if read by themselves could be considered edifying, however, this book is laced with much false doctrine.  I would have given this book 0 stars if it were possible.  Sadly, many Christians who are bored with their faith and immature sucked into this nonsense.	2003-06-04
US	51346929	R23U93FHPFRKR4	0849914906	364080987	The Second Coming of the Church	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Misses the mark	Barna should be applauded for the amount of sociological research that is found in this book that shows what many have long suspected, the Church is in almost indistinguishable from the world, and is in a state of bankrupcy.<br />However, in trying to suggest ways that the Church can overcome this state, Barna is less than impressive.  Granted, he hits the nail right on the head when he calls for a return of the family unit as being one of the most important groups when it comes to spiritual formation.  Without a doubt, most families today do not worship together, do not pray together, and do not study together...something that is to be the halmark of the Church.  The only down-side to this though, is that Barna spends too little time in his book on this topic.<br />Instead, Barna believes that what the Church is seriously lacking today is Biblical leadership.  This is where his book really starts to fall apart.  While Barna does correctly point out that the gift of leadership (Romans 12:8, NASB) is it's own particular gifting, he places way too much importance on this gift, almost making the gifting its own &quot;office&quot; (In the Eph 4:11 sense).  What is shocking to me is that Barna often sets the office of pastor-teacher and gift of leadership as seperate from one another.  He does this, because a poll of his indicates that roughly 95% of pastors do not believe they have the gift of leadership.<br />Biblically though, this cannot be.  Can one (Biblically) believe that a shepherd does not have the gift of leadership?  No.  Biblically, shepherding (pastoring) and leading  are one in the same.  But this point seems to slip by Barna.  If a pastor is unable to lead the people, then he is not truly a pastor, and is simply playing church.  Such persons should resign from their offices.<br />Another problem with Barna's book, is that he tends to look at leaders in the business world, and the church, as one in the same.  To Barna, the only difference between a leaderin the world, and leader in the Church is that a leader in the Church has Christian character and possesses a vision from God, whereas the business leader does not.  Barna states that those who are succesful businessmen are often good Church leaders.  To Barna, it seems that the gift of leadership is moreso a natural born talent or virtue rather than a supernatural gift from God.  Barna often seems unable to look at the Church for what it is- the body of Christ.  Rather, he tends to look at the Church through the filter  of the business world.<br />The book has several redeeming qualities about it, but, ultimately misses the mark.	2003-06-03
US	51346929	RJBBQVTH9FSRK	0830822194	471328386	Life on the Vine: Cultivating the Fruit of the Spirit	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Revealing	This book takes upon itself to critically reflect American society and its relationship to the difficulty of cultivating the fruits of the Holy Spirit in the life of the Church. In each of the fruits of the Spirit -love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self control- Kenneson shows how bearing each fruit will not be without difficulty, as each fruit has something that is trying to choke it out in American culture.  <br />The book as great as it is, has some short comings. Kenneson doesn't really like the term &quot;self-control,&quot; and akwardly struggles to define it and look for a better word in the English language.  He prefers to call the last of Paul's fruits of the Spirit &quot;continence&quot; instead of &quot;self-control.&quot;  Kenneson's find's the word &quot;self&quot; a little too bitter for his tasting, thinking it takes away from the work of Christ in some fashion.  <br />However, I think the word &quot;self-control&quot; works just fine if the Christian realizes that &quot;you are not your own.&quot;  So, if we say &quot;self-control&quot; as a Christian, we simply must understand that it's not that we control ourselves, but rather, we yield control of ourselves over to Christ.  Kenneson's alternative translation of &quot;continence&quot; in place of &quot;self-control&quot; I don't believe is warranted, and is too close of a synonym to hardly be considred better replacement.  <br />Also, a somewhat minor beef I have with this book is that while it tries to refrain from being overly academic, it is still academic enough to be &quot;over the heads&quot; of many readers.  I admit that as a Jr in Bible college, I had some difficulty reading the book at times because of Kenneson's superior command of the english language (even though I did read the book in about half a week).  I had to use the dictionary enough to be minorly annoyed (maybe I should go read again the chapter on patience!).  I fear that this book will not have the impact that it could because many people will not be able to read it.<br />However, this book could still be a useful tool for any church bible study on the fruit of the Spirit, and I would highly recommend it.  This is the second book I've read by Kenneson (previously read the must-read &quot;Selling out the Church&quot;), and am amazingly refreshed to see that there are still good Christian reads out there.  I look forward to reading this book again.	2003-05-26
US	51346929	R3ONQ0DRSEPZVC	1591604443	254844632	The Revival We Need	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Powerful	This book really ministered to me concerning revival, and if you are a fan of folks like Leonard Ravenhill, you will enjoy this book.  The only part of the book I found rather weak was the last couple chapters that were a large collection of sniplets from the personal Journal of Oswald J Smith.  In my opinion, they did not add much to the book, and sometimes it made me wonder if Oswald J Smith really was sound in his faith.  Overall though, good book.	2003-05-23
US	51346929	RF1URTMH9NVO4	0871236206	821936482	Revival God's Way	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Good, but...	This is a good book, but, if you've read other books by Ravenhill such as &quot;Why Revival Tarries&quot; and &quot;Sodom had no Bible&quot;, then you really won't get much else out of this book.  One thing that is pretty cool about this book though, is that it is probably about 1/4 poetry.  At the beginning of each chapter, Ravenhill includes various psalms/hymns that he has written, and some of them are rather good.	2003-05-23
US	51346929	R37X1IE95T9RPM	0226816273	230247732	A Manual for Writers of Term Papers, Theses, and Dissertations, 6th Edition (Chicago Guides to Writing, Editing, and Publishing)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Good to have	This is a good book to have if you are having to write a paper in Turabian format.  It is very boring stuff, but if you need to have it, you need to have it.	2003-05-15
US	51346929	R101TDRJNCR2YQ	0842307648	210435189	Evangelism Explosion 4th Edition	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Good and practical	This is a pretty good book on how to do door-to-door &quot;friendship&quot; evangelism.  I used this as a text book in a Evangelism class that I took at Lee University, and greatly enjoyed it.  The book is designed so you could take the information you learned in this book, and train others with it.  <br />My only complaint about the book is that it does not encourage people to be a little more aggressive in their presentation of the gospel.  If one is not careful, and simply tried to use this book as the only method of presenting the gospel to sinners, then one could end up reducing the gospel to &quot;Jesus is my buddy, Jesus is my pal, Jesus makes me feel good.&quot; <br />I would recommend not using the outline for presenting the gospel very strictly, but simply as a basic template (which is good at incorperating all the basic elements of the gospel).<br />Ultimately... my opinion is that this is a great book, and every church would do well to get this into the hands of their members.	2003-05-15
US	51346929	R15K5Y8UBVGDMW	0310595509	799802480	Survey of the New Testament, A	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Could be better	There is some pretty good stuff in this book (used it as a student in a NT Survey class), though I have my share of disagreements with the author.  One of the best sections of the book has to do with the intertestamental period, as well as the political/religious/philosophic settings of Jesus time.<br />One major flaw with the book however, is its structure.  While it is great that the author gives a nice bibliography at the end of each section, providing direction for further research, it is unfortunate at the layout of the book.  When the book begins to offer quick commentaries on key passages of each NT book, the flow  has no real method to it's madness.  Traditional commentaries at least tell you what part of a book is being addressed before giving its thoughts.  Not this book, rather, the book gives it's comments on a particular verse or chapter, and then says &quot;read book:verse1-verse2&quot;  It can be rather confusing at times.<br />Hard to say how this book compares to other NT Survey books (since I've not read any), but I think it would be a good book for any student of the scriptures to have on their bookshelf, though not crucial.	2003-04-25
US	51346929	R3EMYRZYWZTICJ	0801021677	451262888	The Christian Educator's Handbook on Spiritual Formation	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Good handbook	This handbook is a collection of essay's on various issues of christian spiritual formation &amp; discipleship.  I had this as a text at Lee University for my Spiritual Formation &amp; Discipleship class, and largely enjoyed it.  There is nothing I'd consider &quot;great&quot; in this book, however, there are a few good articles that are informative for those who wish to gain a good understanding of many issues today, with a nice bibliography that can lead to further research.	2003-04-25
US	51346929	R2M404TGC5YMGX	0801021324	573303084	Nurture That Is Christian: Developmental Perspectives on Christian Education (Bridgepoint Books)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A difficult subject that is made easy to understand	This was a text that I used in my &quot;Spiritual Formation and Discipleship&quot; class at Lee University.  The book does an excellent job at merging developmental psychology and the Scriptures, to present a unique Christian prespective on the world of developmental psychology, and how the Church can make use of it.	2003-04-25
US	51346929	R18HG5RPAS601D	0802825141	17092623	The Epistle to the Hebrews (The New International Commentary on the New Testament)	Books	3	6	67	N	N	Could there be any better?	This is an informative commentary, done by one of the foremost evangelical scholars.  Good for academic and non-academic use.  However, the exegetical conclusions of work Bruce's work is hardly impressive.  There are quite a few misinterpretations of some key passages passages of Hebrews, though many will not probably see it because of the veil that has been created in many evangelical circles.  A more critical commentary is needed, but you probably will not find any.  So, could there be any better?	2003-04-09
US	51346929	RIE1ZHVZIZHBY	0871234963	488440395	Sodom Had No Bible	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Holy Dynamite!	A book that will send the fires that consumed Sodom into your very bones.	2003-04-06
US	51346929	R1UUJGF48FYGPO	0687010446	963221984	Selling Out the Church: The Dangers of Church Marketing	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Amazing	Quite simply, this is an absolutely amazing book.<br />Kenneson and Street boldly declare that the Church's major problem today is that we simply stop looking at the Church as just another business or non-profit organization, and rather look at it rather as a (kingdom) community that God's calling to be a sign, a fortaste, and herald of the gospel of Jesus Christ.  Because the Church is not just another organization is why baptizing business philosophy and marketing strategy into this community fails.  For the underlying principles of business marketing strategies are different than that of the foundations of the kingdom of God.  <br />Marketing stratigies foundationally are ultimately geared around the self-interest of the business as well as the consumer.  The business says to the consumer, &quot;I'll scratch your back if you scratch mine.&quot;  The consumer then looks at the business as just another commodity.<br />Such a mentality is contrary to two key principles of Christianity: servant-hood and giving.  If the church attempts to reach out to others only so that it may profit (e.g. growth), then the church fails to truly give and fails to truly serve.  Because ultimately, when it serves and when it gives, strings are attached.  The same can be said concerning the consumers mentality, which is one of &quot;church shopping.&quot;  <br />Also, another problem of church marketing is that those who advocate marketing are fixated on numerical growth.  For ultimately to them, it is the only way to plot the success of the mission of the church.  Kenneson and Street powerfully asks, what if the mission of the church is not to grow simply in numbers, but rather, what if the goal of the church was simply to manifest the fruits of the Spirit as seen in Galatians 5?  Church marketers would shutter at such a thought, for their is no way to translate such things into numerical data.  While the authors do not out right say it, but I believe it is hinted at between the lines:ultimately we cannot measure church growth through &quot;scientific&quot; methods, instead, church growth must be measured prophetically.<br />This book was very difficult to find, as it is out-of-print (at the time of this review), however, it is without a doubt a must read for all church leadership.<br />My only problem with this book is that while it offers a great deal of criticism concerning marketing, it does very little to suggest what must be done in light of this criticism.  Even the authors admit this in their closing remarks, however, they do encourage us to seek from God the vision to shape our community.	2003-03-31
US	51346929	R1ZETAH6XLI9GU	0515090255	928200274	The Cross and the Switchblade: A True Story -- the Best-Selling International Adventure of All Time!	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Blew me away	A powerful book that will send God-bumps down your spine!  Even if you are not a fan of David Wilkerson's later writings, this book is truly a God send.  Read this book if you want to learn of the power of the Holy Spirit in the lives of others.	2003-03-31
US	51346929	R6DA60T05JENC	0800626249	424630348	Jewish Contemporaries of Jesus: Pharisees, Sadducees, Essenes	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Although scholarly, it's weak.	This book is sometimes so overly \\"scholarly\\" that you get lost.  It would make a poor introduction book for those looking to get a basic understanding of Jewish sects in Jesus day.  The translation is sometimes poor, leaving one confused.  The order in which the author decides to present his material seems a little backwards.  And if that wasn't enough, the author spends most of his time debunking others opinions on the matter, without really offering a true solution, reconstructing the contemporaries of Jesus.  It's a painful book to read.	2003-03-31
US	51346929	R2QR7QLCLUGZIS	0805426205	729527976	Brothers, We Are Not Professionals: A Plea to Pastors for Radical Ministry	Books	2	17	64	N	N	Not so radical	Don't get me wrong, this book has plenty of good stuff in it.  However, it is hardly an exhortation to for radical pastoral ministry that departs from a professional mentality.  I kept reading this book anticipating I'd eventually read something radical... but never did.  Because of this, reading the book was often very painful.  Because of this, I rate it as low as I do with only 2 stars.<br />As Leonard Ravenhill? said: we would not think many ministers to be great if they were not announced to us as so.  Fact of the matter is, many would not think this book to be \\"radical\\" if it were not presented to us as so.  <br />Very little of this book even really touches on the issue of \\"professionals.\\"  Nothing really radical here.  Some good exhortations in general, but there are better.  Don't give amazon.com your money for this book.	2003-03-19
US	51346929	R1UGZQHSATFKVH	0842369082	298399623	A Tale of three Kings: A Study in Brokenness	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Superb	Quite possibly the best book ever written about kingdom authority and submission (with hints of obedience.)  This novel looks at the lessons of authority and submission from the lives of three individuals...King Saul, King David, and wouldbe-king Absalom.  If you ever get a book on the issues of authority and submission...this is the one to get.  <br />Yes, only 90 some pages, and easily read within 2 hours.  You will get to see what king Saul thought of David, and what David thought of Saul (part 1).  Later, you will get to see the rise of Absalom, and the struggle of David on how to deal with the issue.  Shall David be towards Absalom as he was in his youth in regard to Saul?  Or shall he be towards Absalom as Saul was towards himself?<br />Buy it, read it, and for those of you in positions of leadership, try to get into the hands of other leaders at your church.	2003-03-12
US	51346929	R3JRPE7LDM5L61	1577482239	576123845	Watchman Nee: Man of Suffering (Heroes of the Faith)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A true believer	Watchman Nee was a man of conviction that kept his focus on Christ above all things.  He faithfully discharged his callings as an apostle, evangelist, and teacher while often being betrayed, reviled, and under threat from communist China.  One can be moved greatly by reading this book.<br />I started reading this book while I was in the process doing a research paper for school.  Being familiar with some of Nee's writings, and being curious about his life in general, I put my research paper on hold in order to read this book.  My paper might not end up being as good, but that's ok :)	2003-03-10
US	51346929	R24FDMRWK84F7N	0875093663	808879634	The Pursuit of God	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The simplicity of the pursuit	This book is a good little devotional about the pursuit of God, showing what often hinders our pursuit and what can be done to change that.  This book is full of many great little spiritual maxims that would be profitable for meditating upon.	2003-03-08
US	51346929	R383OMYAL3LSX8	0871485338	555553299	Like a Mighty Army: A History of the Church of God, 1886-1995	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A must	This book is a must for those who are Pentecostal, or studying Pentecostalism.  It is a history of the Pentecostal &quot;Church of God - Clevland, TN.&quot;  <br />This book details the early beginnings of the Church of God in 1886, a holiness group coming out of mainstream denominations in the mountains of Tennessee, calling themselves &quot;The Christian Union.&quot;  A group who after 10 years experienced the baptism of the Holy Spirit. This history traces the problems encountered, and the world wide growth of the Church of God up until 1995.  <br />This book received official approval by the Church of God executive committee, thus &quot;The Definitive Edition.&quot;  It is easy to see why though, as will become quickly obvious, the author (a former General Overseer in the church) is a bit biased.  Though he treats some tough issues in much fairness, sometimes this book reads more poetic propiganda than a raw history.  <br />A fellow student of mine (at Lee University, a Church of God school) called this book &quot;The Church of God's version of Mein Keimpf.&quot;  He's probably not too far from the truth.  However, this is a good read and a valuable part to any Pentecostal library.  <br />580 pages worth of reading, with about 30 of it being the names of overseers, presidents of the college, tracking the growth in numbers of church membership, as well as tithes received.  The first half of the book is a lot more enjoyable than the last half, with more emphasis on the early general assemblies, whereas the last half of the book does not put as much emphasis on the general assemblies (where denominational decisions are made, leaders voted in, etc.)  <br />My only wish is this history book would have had some pictures of the various persons and buildings that played a crucial part of the history of this denomination.  It would have made this book a better history book.	2003-03-03
US	51346929	RLZ0ZJJZQVPGX	0962845531	101843423	Apostasy: A Study in the Epistle to the Hebrews and in Baptist History	Books	2	9	23	N	N	Scattered thoughts	I bought this small book because I needed it for a paper on the book of Hebrews that I'm doing at Lee University, based on the Hebrews usage of apostasy.  While I'm glad that I got the few quotes I need for the paper, I have to say I really did not like the book at all and was quited disappointed.  <br />Sadly, Dale Moody mostly wrote this book because he has an axe to grind.  He is constantly ranting and raving how the Baptists have got it all wrong, and they shouldn't have kicked him out of a few schools over disagreements with this passage, and yada yada yada.  His thoughts seem almost randomly scattered, with no real flow to it.  Had he not divided the book into chapters, you'd have never been able to realize the theme.  <br />While I agree strongly with the authors views that Baptist have it wrong with their &quot;once saved always saved&quot; views (I come from a Pentecostal schooling), as this author makes it plain that it is impossible to reconcile that creed in light of the apostasy verses of Hebrews.  However, I strongly disagree and cannot believe that this author slipped some other goofy doctrines into this book (it slowly creeps in and keeps reappearing), namely, that having to do with the doctrine of annihilation (that Hell is not forever and ever, but only temporary).<br />A poorly written book with only a few coherient thoughts scattered abroad (probably as a result of an explosion of bitterness and grief.)  Hardly what you would expect from a professor of theology.  <br />The only reason I give it at least 2 stars is because I needed a monograph on the apostasy topic in Hebrews, and this is one of the only books out there that covers it specifically.  It does have some use.	2003-03-02
US	51346929	R1R6K7WMB2M45B	0802800793	492663135	The Epistle of James: An Introduction and Commentary (Tyndale New Testament Commentaries)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Solid and informative	A good commentary that will get you familiar with the many different interpretations of James, but will ultimately supply you with a rock solid study.  Especially good is his treatment of the &quot;problems&quot; people often encounter with James 2.  <br />There are plenty of footnotes that refer you to other works for further study concerning some opposing views, though not by any means an overkill on footnotes.  <br />I am using this text in my &quot;General Epistles&quot; class at Lee University (Pentecostal - Church of God - Clevland, TN.)  It should be noted though that this is not an academic level commentary, but is designed for lay and clergy alike.  Hard as it may seem, Moo was able to squeeze out 191 pages of commentary.	2003-02-24
US	51346929	R2HTZSLUJINJ5M	0871236079	557371415	Why Revival Tarries	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Holy Praying Prophets	Leonard Ravenhill summons holy praying prophets to rise up in this gem.  He calls for a life that is without compromise, being set apart for the Lord.  He calls for people to go deep in prayer, and often.  He calls for prophets to rise up and speak a message accompanied only with the unction of the Spirit.<br />Just on a side note, this book is a little old.  Communism is still a very real threat at the time of the writing.  Also, Ravenhill condemns evangelists of his day for buying \\"$3 steaks.\\"  That tells you how old this book must be :)  If somebody knows where I can buy a steak for 3 bucks, drop me a line...shoot, drop me a line if you know where I can go out and eat steak for under 10 bucks :)	2003-02-18
US	51346929	R3IOUZDN07Q70I	0517066467	195431384	Anything Book, Classic Exec Series: Black	Books	5	13	16	N	N	The book says it all.	It's a blank book with a bunch of lines on each page so you can write with.  My only real complaint is that I wish the pages were already numbered.  I also wish there were more pages, for I plan on keeping a spiritual journal, and if I do this on a daily basis, then I will probably fill this book up rather quickly.  Probably every 1-3 months I will fill this thing up (depending on how much I write.)  Should be great though.	2003-01-28
US	51346929	RLAPEZSWA9GM9	0870830279	584718378	The Normal Christian Church Life	Books	2	13	41	N	N	Good on the apostolic work, not much else.	This book has some very good things in it, and fortunantely, most the book is dedicated to talking about things that are good.  I have yet to find any other book that better describes true apostolic ministry, and the book does a good job at also describing the function of elders and deacons.  Though I feel Nee was lacking some insight into the these things as well, and probably reads a little too much into the functions of these three offices in relation to local and extra-local ministry.<br />However, I have a serious contention with Nee on one major issue of his book.  Nee teaches that indeed, there should be just one local church per city.  While I agree with Nee that we should not use national and racial differences as a reason to divide fellowship, for as the Scriptures teach, \\"There is neither Jew nor Greek...all are one in Christ Jesus.\\"  However, Nee promotes that there is no reason to ever disfellowship/break fellowship with an individual(s) on the basis of doctrinal differences.  Yet, Nee himself is a hypocrite saying this, for he teaches that \\"the local church\\" cannot work together with denominational, or even nondenominational churches.  He states that the Bible has called us to be only a local city based church, so we dare not share in \\"the work.\\"  So in otherwords, Nee has decided there is actually a sufficient ground for not working together with Christians who hold a different doctrine than he.  Nee creates a denomination in doing this, though he denies it several times.<br />Nee teaches that so long as we hold to the fundamental essentials of our faith- those things which we were required to acknowledge in order to believe in Christ; namely the atonement work of Christ and His divinity.  However, even as much as many christians may agree with this view (on just needing to agree on essentials), such thought is totally foreign to scripture.  <br />Without preaching a sermon (for this is a book review), the scriptures teach that we must worship in spirit and truth.  If we are not worshiping in truth, then we are creating a god in whatever image we have decided to fashion it in. We end up saying God says something, when He does not, which is adding to the word of God.  Worshiping according to false doctrines is idolatry, and those who are living in sin Matthew 18 teaches we must attempt to restore, but if restoration fails, we must cut them off from fellowship.<br />People holding to wrong doctrine (and don't confuse doctrine with opinion) are living and darkness, in sin.  1 John teaches us that there is no fellowship with light and darkness, and if such persons have lost intimate fellowship with Christ, then we have no true fellowship with them should we be found living in the light.  So it is only natural that if we have no fellowship with them in the heavenly realm, then we are not to pretend we have fellowship with them in this life.  \\"Remove the wicked man from among you.\\" (1 Cor 5)  We ought not dare pretend to have a unity that does not exist.<br />Also just a note, this is probably one of the better translations of Nee's works I've read to date.  It is a lot more clear what he means in this book vs many others of his I've read.  On a bad note, the book after the first couple of chapters becomes way too repetitive.  You feel like you are reading the same thing over and over and over again...then you stop and realize you actually are.  However, I encourage you to do as Nee said, and read all his book before you make any decisions about it.  <br />Sadly, as good as this book might be at times, I cannot recommend you read it or keep it on your shelf unless you are just doing research for apostles in China.	2003-01-10
US	51346929	R2W57970SPHL1J	0883683296	525098165	Demons: The Answer Book	Books	3	10	19	N	N	Surely there is something better out there?	This book had some good points, but most of what was said didn't have much scriptual basis, just a lot of personal examples that I find questionable.  One chapter in particular was very disappointing, the one about the stages leading up to being possesed.  Read this book with a grain of salt...or two.	2003-01-05
US	51346929	R23E9ADYARYKNS	0966665708	253845051	Rethinking the Wineskin: The Practice of the New Testament Church	Books	2	54	73	N	N	Some good, some bad, sometimes lacking.	Quite an interesting book.  Viola does a pretty good job at showing what is often wrong with the &quot;Institutional Church.&quot;  He shows the truth behind the Lord's supper very well, that the scriptures liken it to a love feast, not eating a themble portion of wine and bread.  He also shows the truth behind the priesthood of all believers very well, exhorting all to get involved, and not simply be passive receivers.<br />This book has very little to do with meeting in homes, and having church there.  While he does show that Christians in the bible did pratice this, he does not ignore the fact of larger assemblies that were dominated largely by a small number of people in the scriptures as well.  My complaint however with why he chooses &quot;house church&quot; for regular meetings over your typical church building is that Viola (as well as many home-churchers) seems to think the house church &quot;fosters&quot; (an often used word) an environment of openness, where as the typical church building discourages such.  That these environments have significant influence on how believers interact with eachother.  <br />This is simply wrong.  The place where we meet is not to influence us in such a way.  Our freedom to move in the Spirit, and fellowship with one another is not determined by environment, rather, it is found in Christ alone.  Unless Christ has given us freedom, then we will not find it in the institutional church, nor the house church.  As Moses said, God is a dwelling place; so let us know that whatever tent we might find ourself in, God is our true place of dwelling.<br />Another major objection I have with this book is that Viola teaches that the scriptures heavily establish the principle that a local assembly does nothing about a matter without full consensus of the entire body.  He uses the council of Jerusalem in Acts 15 as his primary justification.  Such a view is unscriptural, and not practical.  He seems to look past the obvious time that Paul and Barnabas could not agree with eachother over who to take with them on one of their missions.  Did Paul and Baranabas simply wait until they all agreed before they seperated?  Hardly.  <br />Had Paul not moved on without Barnabas, the world would have quite a few less Christians.  Or what would've happened if there was a disagreement on what to do about the prophesied famine, and the support of other churches?  Folks would have starved.  You cannot simply wait for everybody to agree before doing anything, because there will often be those who resist the leading of the Spirit.  <br />New believers and backslidden believers will often be the most resistant.  Don't understand me wrong though, we should seek and pray that all are with one accord concerning any matter, for we are one Body.  However, some members of the Body will sometimes not function as Christ would have them.  It is times such as these though, when the elders must assert their authority and declare the work of God move forward as in accordance to the Holy Spirit.  Viola doesn't see the elders having such &quot;authority,&quot; though it is clear in the Bible the elders must be ones who &quot;manage&quot; their own homes well.  Why?  If they cannot manage their own home, how can they manage the church?  Viola doesn't see elders as really having any authority, just simply a more &quot;respected&quot; opinion in matters due to their maturity.  <br />However, this is where I feel Viola's book is really lacking.  He wants you to buy his other book &quot;Who is your covering?&quot; to find out more about authority.  <br />Finally, Viola encourages folks to leave the institutional church.  Though, he doesn't give much reason as to why.  He clearly states that christians should not divide fellowship over &quot;non-essentials&quot; (Which is unbiblical; also he defines these essentials as the divinity of Christ, and His blood atonement.)  So, why leave the institutional church?  You will find brothers and sisters in all denominations, will you not?  They will all believe these doctrines, will they not?  So, Viola is looking to divide over what he defines as non-essentials.  <br />An interesting read, and has some truly great gems in it.  However, a lot of the ideas he puts forth are lacking any biblical foundation.  He also seems to leave one hanging on a few issues, ones that if he addressed, would've made my review of this book at least have 3 stars.	2003-01-03
US	51346929	R7VVCYQVEYX71	1575938049	644254815	Church Affairs	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Leaving a lot of questions unanswered	Interesting book that stirs up many questions one may have, that go unanswered.  This book was not written as a book, rather, it was simply a recorded speech Nee gave over the period of several days at a conference (to other apostles?) <br />Possibly the hardest issue to swallow that Nee puts forth in this book, is that only apostles have authority to establish elders in a city.  I would be interested to know if Nee thought that after an original class of elders has been established, if this original class has authority to appoint new elders as well, or will they always have to wait for an apostle?  Chances are though that Nee's crowd already understood this, which is why he didn't expound on this.<br />The only reason I give the book a low rating is because I wonder about the quality of the translation.  Did Nee really speak this way, or was his translator just not very good?  <br />In general, Nee puts forth some radical views, which are rather thought provoking.	2003-01-02
US	51346929	R157Q1SDHHCXB1	0935008357	190438913	Spiritual Authority	Books	4	14	19	N	N	A great work.	Without a doubt, this is a very good work.  Nee's ability to expound on various passages concerning authority, submission, and obedience is superb.  Beware though, there are a few statements Nee makes in this book that need to be further examined, and may be in error- but probably are not.  <br />My only complaint about this book is that it is highly repetitive.  You will read many of the same statements over and over again, but that's because this is simply a collection of sermons/essays by Nee.  He did not simply sit down and write a book.  <br />Also I find it of interest that Nee doesn't make very many personal references/examples in this work.  Had he put more of his own experiences in this work, you would probably be reading John Bevere's &quot;Under Cover,&quot; which is remarkably similiar to this book.	2002-12-20
US	51346929	R2EIWB592X1VRE	0310575516	493739803	Help! I'm a Volunteer Youth Worker	Books	5	1	3	N	N	For Newbies	This book is very short and to the point (can be fully read while you wait for the pizza man to get to your house.)  If you have any prior ministry experience, or doing things with various organizations, you probably don't need this book... though it might be good for refreshing yourself on a couple things.  In general, some practical advice.	2002-12-17
US	51346929	R3DDGG5ZTQHOYI	0310921848	534510750	Zondervan NASB Wide Margin Bible	Books	5	11	13	N	N	You'll fill it up.	If you really enjoy studying the scriptures, making your own notes, cross-references and the like, you'll find this a powerful tool in your studies.  The notes and references you make will actually be useful, unlike the many notes and references found in many bibles out there.  Pastors, teachers, and students would do well to have one of these on their bookshelf.	2002-10-22
US	51346929	R16A873MR8X77Y	0785268839	648927278	Wild at Heart: Discovering The Secret of a Man's Soul	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Wild at Heart will produce a Heart on Fire	Many may say this book does not teach much on integrity and the like, but it does.  Eldredge simply uses the word &quot;strength&quot; in place of &quot;integrity.&quot;  Strength which is formed by an intense desire for God, and our own Eve.  <br />Critics of this book are not entirely wrong with their critique that there is some psychobabel in here, surely you will find some of that.  Not to mention there is an instance where Eldredge encourages  his son to hit a bully back instead of turning the other cheek, which is just doctrinally, flat out wrong.  He teaches his son to do this so his son is not &quot;emasculated.&quot;  <br />The only other problem I have with the book is Eldredge's constant reference to many secular movies such as &quot;Saving Private Ryan&quot; and the most-quotable movie in the world, &quot;Braveheart.&quot;  Granted, I've seen all these movies when I was a non-christian, and also as a babe in Christ.  However, it seems Eldredge who's been a Christian for years sees these movies as ok viewing material for Christians...which they are not.  But I have no problem him drawing examples from these movies, no more a problem than when the apostle Paul quoted pagan philosophers to make his point.<br />However, if you can get around these points in the book, you should do well.  There is much to learn from this book concerning relationships with family, friends, and most importantly God.  You will be able to look back at your life, and even current relationships, and say &quot;Oh, that's what that was/is.&quot;  <BR> <BR>I highly encourage this book be read, there might be better books out there, but that does not mean we should exclude this one.  Hopefully this book will encourage you as it has me, to &quot;venture forth&quot; in courage that arises out of love, a love that leaves me no choice but to cross the line drawn in the sand.<br />&quot;Eve was created within the beauty of Eden's garden.  But Adam, if you'll remember, was created outside the Garden, in the wilderness...Man was born in the outback.&quot; (page 3)	2002-10-22
US	51346929	R29DU8CDF23PR3	0842332782	989492793	Holy Bible: New Living Translation. Gift & Award Edition	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Bought it to witness to a friend... got one for myself.	I originally bought this to help witness to a friend who doesn't happen to own a bible, then after flipping through it for a few minutes, I decided I just had to have one for myself.<br />The NLT has been one of my favorite translations for a while, just behind the NASB (out of the 8 I physically own, and the dozens I have on CD's).  And remember, it's a translation, not simply a paraphrase.  It is a reliable translation that is easy to read. I find it interesting that some words it decides to give a more literal translation as well.  Such as the word we often see translated as &quot;gospel&quot; is more often than not translated as &quot;Good  News.&quot;<br />To be fare though, I think there are times where it doesn't translate some verses, especially in prophets, deep enough.  Simply because an analogy a prophet used is really difficult to understand unless one really chews on it for a while. But this is a rare exception, not the rule. <br />This particular print of this transtion is very useful.  It has a very nice concordinance and dictionary in the back, as well as some key passages and verses that are highlighted throughout.  The map in the back while decent, could probably be a little better.	2002-06-04
US	51346929	REKCIEF8P02WK	1585020060	662159036	Apostles Of The City (City Transformation)	Books	1	3	7	N	N	Not that good	Don't read this book if you are not already familiar with the apostolic movement, especially as is taught by Wagner and many of his other &quot;networked&quot; associates.  To understand this book probably to it's fullest level, you will have to read some of Wagners main works concerning his view of how the church should function.<br />Wagner attempts in this book, to show how other church models of government and organization, have failed.  But that there is a model that we have not considered, however, Wagner fails to clearly develope what a proper model will be.  You cannot help by reading this book, that Wagner is doing nothing more than theorizing what things should look like.  <br />Also, Wagner's models for how the church should function successfully, seems to basically be based on how large a congregation grows, and how long it keeps those numbers.  <br />Decrease in numbers, according to Wagner, would simply show that the model is flawed, and not biblical.  However, this is the flaw of his model, and how they should work, which seems to be based partially/largely upon the number of members one has.<BR>By the way, does this review sound somewhat confusing?  Well, that's because it's hard to respond well to a book that itself, is poorly written.  Transitions in thought are poor, and the book is slow and developes poorly.  Yet, this is not by any means a thick book.  <br />You can easily read it within 2 sittings, but this should warn you that if I'm complaining over just a few pages, that it is simply just a poorly written book.  Wagner should have simply bundled this book with one of his 40 other books.	2002-02-01
US	51346929	RSLZAIEDHH8ND	0800631382	416416633	Jeremiah	Books	2	3	39	N	N	Some good insight, but well, mostly not very good	Don't get me wrong, there is some good insight in this book.  However, you have to wonder if this commentary is really &quot;spiritual&quot; as in the Christian tradition, or if he's just a burned out hippie-protestor.  <br />This book seems to have been written by somebody who is still living in the 60's and 70's war mentality.  It seems somebody forgot to tell Berrigan we are living in the post-cold-war and post-vietnam days.  <br />Granted, this book has probably become a little more relevant in it's message since the events of 9/11, but still, seems that all the time Berrigan has spent in prison for his activities in protest has left him a little out of touch with reality.<br />Also, Berrigan seems a little &quot;liberal.&quot;  I come from a &quot;christian fundamentalist pentecostal&quot; belief, and it seems to me that Berrigan supports the &quot;homosexual lifestyle,&quot; which is well, not biblical.  However, I do agree with him that we should not pinpoint homosexuals, and make them objects of wrath and such.  <br />While Berrigan does a decent job at showing an understanding of what Jeremiah probably went through, and what God was saying to the people that had turned their faces away from Him, he takes an extreme &quot;poetic license&quot; when it comes to quoting large sections of scripture.  Berrigan really cuts out a lot of words out of the mouth of Jeremiah, and makes him sound as if He is suffering from schizophrina.  He does this in an attempt to amplify a few key words, but well, seems to leave out all the other words that actually make a sentence intelligible.  Also, the hack job on the words of Jeremiah seem to be to make what Jeremiah says more poetic.  <br />The way he quotes passages might make sense if you are use to that coffee shope mentality, where you have somebody playing the drums really fast before a poet reads a broken up verse, with candels burning in the background, strobe lights of many colors composing a backdrop, and Isaac Hayeslightly playing the theme song for &quot;Shaft&quot; in the background.  Or in otherwords, if you enjoy smoke and mirrors, with superficial meaning behind the words, then this will all be ok with you.<br />Also, just a warning: plan to read this commentary with a Oxford dictionary at your side.  Berrigan uses a lot of &quot;big words,&quot; which will lose many people.  Keep in mind, I say this as a sophmore in college.  <br />This book will probably also lose you half way through, because eventually, &quot;you get the drill.&quot;  Granted, it's not a heavy read, and it's surely not very long.  Just do yourself a favor, leave this book in the warehouse at amazon.com.  Eventually it'll collect enough dust that they will have to remove it because it becomes a fire hazard.	2001-12-18
US	51346929	R2A4732TFAZSNK	0800781503	27544038	The Vision	Books	2	15	24	N	N	Interesting...but false and above accountability	Wilkerson's book was suggested to me by a pastor that I highly respect and admire, however, after reading the book (and several other's) of Wilkerson, I can't help but say that Wilkerson is false, and that this book is amongst many of his false prophecies.<br />Wilkerson is above accountability, and commonly shows this in this book, and others with &quot;I don't care, this is the vision I had, and no matter what you say will convince me that this was not from the Lord&quot; attitude.  He's placed himself above accountability, and is a fallen minister (imo, he had a true calling at one point, but has been living in falseness for many years now.)  <br />This book reaks of bad doctrine, although it brings out many &quot;good points&quot; I guess you could call them (the false often mingle truth with their message to make it harder to reject what is said.)  Wilkerson titles this book &quot;The Vision&quot; but he does very little to describe the vision's he actually had.  Instead, he seems to be interpreting them.  Many times he seems to be &quot;prophetically&quot; offering his opinion's on things.  <BR>Also, the reason this book is hard to come by, and is not in print anymore is because it seems quite a few of wilkerson's prophecies have not come to pass.  Some movements that existed in his earlier years that he prophesied of their future no longer exist, or have become so small of a movement they are no longer really a major concern.  They have been replaced by all sorts of new &quot;charismatic renewal&quot; movements and such.	2001-11-20
US	51346929	R3ILU1I9RXFI42	0883686406	760173947	Set the Trumpet to Thy Mouth	Books	1	21	54	N	N	Just sick	It's amazing how wretched a person becomes after making previous false prophecies (The Vision), and not being repentant of them.<br />Wilkerson in this book takes so many OT prophecies of judgment, and applies them to America who he says will be destroyed in a nuclear holocoust.  He takes OT (and NT) prophecy after prophecy after prophecy out of context and constantly applies them to America.  He see's America as Babylon (as many do, but well as bad as America is, it's not sound doctrine.)<br />This book has a great call to holiness...however as much as I believe in holiness, Wilkerson goes beyond holiness to straight out legalism.  Wilkerson somehow ends up mixing this &quot;book of prophecy&quot; that he has written with his opinion.<br />He tries to show folks that all Christians who watch any tv (or even own one) are idolaters (and indeed, it is an idol to some), and that all rock music (and I do mean all) is satanic, and is straight from Hell.  And remember, Wilkerson wrote this book quite a few years ago, when TV had some decent programming on it.  Remember show's on TGIF (on ABC) like &quot;Full House&quot; or &quot;Family Matters&quot; (that show with Steve Erkel).  I guess all those shows were and are abominations.<br />Of course, false prophets &amp; legalist often seem to forget the truth that is taught in the scriptures...sanctify all things by means of the Word of God, and prayer...<br />Wilkerson- like in his other books, is above accountability.  He has the &quot;I don't care what you say, this is what God says&quot; attitude.  Granted, I believe in the authority of geniune prophecy, and modern prophets that still speak &quot;thus says the Lord...&quot;, but none are above accountability.  Wilkerson says some very good things, but in his books he makes it clear that he will not hear anything against what he says is the word of the Lord, even though it is him speaking- not the Lord.<br />If you are like me, you will have a difficult time getting past half way in this book, it's just so crammed with false doctrine it's sad.  Mature Christians will probably find their spirits grieved after reading this book.ng past half way in this book, it's just so crammed with false doctrine it's sad.  Mature Christians will probably find their spirits grieved after reading this book.	2001-11-20
US	51346929	R3P4IIKE7023ZU	0785269916	76347748	Under Cover: The Promise of Protection Under His Authority	Books	5	20	32	N	N	One of Bevere's better books, will not be his most popular	John Bevere has done it again, writing yet another book that will bring you deeper into the mysteries of Christ. In this book, Bevere shows you the difference between submission and obedience. John shows us that you can submit to somebody, and not always obey them, and that you can obey somebody and never submit to them.<br />Using many excellent personal examples of his own life and ministry (frequent readers/listeners of Bevere will be familiar with many of these examples), as well as corresponding biblical examples, Bevere teaches who we are to submit to - all genuine authority - and what we are to obey by submitting to authority - everything save for something that would be disobedience to Christ. This submission includes even ungodly men and women, be it a president, local government, or even your husband or parents. Bevere says &quot;obedience deals with our responsive actions toward authority. Submission deals with our attitude toward authority&quot; (p. 134)<br />Hard to believe that we have to submit even to ungodly men and women, but as Bevere shows we don't have to obey them where they ask us to be disobedient to the Gospel. Bevere reminds us that we are to be obedient to decisions of authority that may not always appear to be wise, because they are authority- God's appointed authority of Romans 13 - but if it is an unwise decision we are to remember the heart of the King is in God's hands, and God will judge that ruler for his decisions based on the authority God gave him. If you disobey authority simply because you don't agree with how something should be done, you will be cursed, but should you obey them even if you disagree with them, you will be blessed.<br />By submitting to authority and obeying it, you will go under God's presence. Because now you are under God's divine protection, and should this authority do something wrong to abuse his position of authority, he will have to answer to God for it, while you will be protected by God's grace.<br />As hard as it might be to agree to the above- you probably already disagree with this book - buy this book, for it will carefully show you that the above is very biblical. An excellent book that will transform forever how you look at and deal with authority. It will probably not be one of John Bevere's most popular books, but surely will be remembered as one of his better ones.	2001-08-13
US	51346929	R1ODA5NHCE582T	1565634187	242287171	A Dictionary of Bible Types: Examines the Images, Shadows and Symbolism of over 1,000 Biblical Terms, Words, and People	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Good for study	This book is very useful for studying many of the images/types/shadows used in the scriptures.  Although you won't always agree with the definitions the author uses- even the ones he is dogmatic about, you can still appreciate the value of this book for personal reference and study.<br />There are some minor set backs though, such as the author seems to have forgotten to include a few symbols that you would think he'd include e.g. a trumpet (which is often used in the scriptures as a prophetic warning/judgment/announcement.) Also the author (although interestingly enough) makes what I consider some serious errors. For example, for the number &quot;five&quot; he says:<br /> &quot;every chapter number five in the bible contains some story of man's weakness and inability. For example: Gen 5:  Although men lived many years, they must eventually die.  Exodus 5: God's people in their weakness were crushed under their oppressors...&quot; (p. 166)<br />  Clearly, this is him reading into the text something that would not have been found until recent times when we started to label the Bible with chapters and verses as if it were poetry.  However, it is interesting nontheless.<br />Overall though, I don't think you'll find many other books that set out to cover as many images/symbols/shadows as this book does, with accompanying verses and descriptions.  This is a topic which probably only a handful of books sets out to cover, and Wilson does it well.  Every student of the bible should have a copy of this on their bookshelf and I highly suggest you purchase a copy.	2001-08-06
US	51346929	R137IXGG7DI2BW	0802800629	186972065	Romans: Tyndale New Testament Commentaries	Books	5	15	16	N	N	So good I have to say it in spanish... muy bien!	&lt;romans_bruce.jpg&gt;  An very sound commentary on the book of Romans by F.F. Bruce. Bruce explains well Paul's stance on righteousness, faith, the Law and it's modern application to the Church of God. He shows that Paul does indeed distinguish between the natural Jews, and the Spiritual Jews.<br />Bruce also fills you in on the historical setting in which Paul wrote the epistle to the Romans, and concerning the possible additions to the text. Bruce breaks Romans up into several sections so you can better analyize the book of Romans and a quickly make reference. Full of wonderful quotes of not only other commentaries on Romans, but some very excellent sayings of Bruce himself. A very insightful commentary that everybody should own.<br />A favorite quote of mine from the book...<br />Should a man not lay his hand upon his mouth before he criticizes his brethren? When we pass swift, uninformed, unloving and ungenerous judgments, surely we have forgotten that if we speak evil of them, at the same time we speak evil of the Lord whose name they bear. p. 232	2001-06-30
US	51346929	R3R35UBOQUZ56W	0375409831	807721745	Salvation: Scenes from the Life of St. Francis	Books	2	7	18	N	N	Sadly disappointing	This book is a brief survey of the life of Franceso di Pietro Bernardone, who became known shortly after his life as St. Francis of Assisi. Franceso was a young man growing up in an extremely wealthy family. He had everything he could ever wish for, and his parents furnished whatever he might need to suit his desires. He however was still a problem child, causing his parents much grief and embarrassment.<br />One day while reading with a priest various scriptures he comes across the gospel passage in Mark 6:7-13. This passage really leaves an impression on young Franceso. Soon after he renounces his life, his family, his wealth, and his inheritance to persue the life of a begger. God then tells him that he is to &quot;repair the church&quot;. Had this been Erasums, John Huss, or Martin Luther, chances are St. Francis would have been one of the early reformers, and would not wear the title of Saint as he does today. Instead of trying to reform the church, he literally picks up hammer and nail and begins to repair run-down churches.<br />Franceso eventually starts his own monastary after urges to have him join the famous Benedictien order failed. His rules are very strict, and very simple. One is not touch any money, and live the life on the streets begging for, and preaching in return for food. The message that was preached was one of repentance and calling people to deny worldliness. Another rule was that one was not to own any books, because they were the cause of many sins.<br />Finally, St. Francis attempts to preach to animals in the woods (as all &quot;Saints&quot; of the day were expected to do) and ended up in deep meditation for some period. St. Francis after his deep meditation was found to have the stigmata (the crucifixion wounds of Christ) upon his body. This was a &quot;sign&quot; of his sainthood, and deep commitment to Christ. Shortly after, St. Francis died a slow, and very painful death at the age of 45. Two years later after his death, he was canonized.<br />St. Francis' life aside, I found this book to be an unsatisfactory read. Valerie Martin had a ingenious idea as far as I'm concerned, for she did not write the book in chronological order. She should be applauded for this. However, she fails to execute what she attempts to do. It starts off well, but the book becomes very difficult to follow because of this backwards chronology, and reveals parts of his early life when she should not, killing the drama of the book. The book struggles to give the reader a greater understanding of St Francis' life. Martin writes this book as a descriptive narrative cover to cover and it becomes quickly annoying. Her &quot;descriptive phrases&quot; are far from impressive, and the book is chalked full of them.<br />I give this book a 2 out of 5 stars. 1 because it looks at key scenes of the life of St. Francis. The other because the idea of Valerie Martin to write this book in reverse chronology is a great idea in my opinion- although she does fail her attempt. If you are looking to learn a lot about the life of St. Francis, do not turn to this book.	2001-06-04
US	51346929	R1PKZFOZR2LOCJ	0151003688	437234577	When Jesus Became God: The Epic Fight over Christ's Divinity in the Last Days of Rome	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Great survey of the Arian Heresy	This book is a great survey/dramatic retelling of the events that surrounded the council of Nicea, and the Arian Heresy and how it nearly split the Church, and Eastern &amp; Western Rome.  Easy to read with enough footnotes to keep one reading for a long time.  Well researched.<br />The only problem I had with the book is at times I just thought it was paraphrase of a few books (which the author cites over and over).  These books being &quot;Eusebius and Constantine&quot;, &quot;Search&quot;, &quot;Early Christian Creeds&quot; and a few others.<br />Other than that, great book.	2001-05-13
US	51346929	R3T7QP6AOR9VFB	0679600876	212654919	The City of God [The Modern Library]	Books	4	267	281	N	N	For the ages...	St Augustine's City of God is a work for the ages.  It was not only a great apologetic to the Christian faith of the 5th century; it is an apologetic to Christian faith for all centuries.  It is the story of history unfolded in two exact opposite cities.  It is the struggle between the two cities against one another.  It is the story of the fall, grace, redemption, and salvation of man for those who live in the city of God.  For those of the other city, it is the exact opposite.  It is the story of the fall, judgment, damnation and ultimate destruction of those who loved themselves more than they loved God.  This was the story of love, by one of the greatest saints of the Catholic Church, Saint Augustine, Bishop of Hippo.<br />The reason I give 4 stars out of 5 is because of the amazing difficulty that comes with reading this book.  This is a VERY VERY heavy read, and one should be familiar with the prevailing Roman philosophies of the day, as well as Roman history.  <br />Augustine talks of Plato, Cicero, Virgil and others frequently through the book.  He also talks of the history of Rome, and these factors play a heavy note in his book.  An few survey classes of Philosophy, and a World Civics class as well as a decent understanding of Christian history at this time, and theology is also a must.  You should be familiar with the scriptures.  Because of all these factors, you cannot just pickup and read this book.  You'll have to know what Augustine is talking about to some level before you read this.  <br />Other than that, this book is brilliance, and while some parts will be a little dry, it is very inspiring.  You see Augustine write, sign, and stamp the doctrine of Original Sin, Amillinialism, and doctrines concerning Grace, the Trinity, and various &quot;problems&quot; concerning the Canon of Scripture.<br />He setup Christianity for the next 1000 years, and is still felt strongly today in Catholic, Protestant and Orthodox circles.	2001-04-11
US	51346929	R2BSTWRPHNAWUD	0872203492	91981162	Plato: Complete Works	Books	5	3	26	N	N	Not read yet but... (hear me out)	Ok, I've not read this book yet.  I've not even glanced over several pages. However, I am somewhat familiar with Plato and his writings.  I love the idea of having all of a person's works available all in one collection.  So, let's think... this is the works of Plato. Plato was a great father of philosophy.  I think this book is a &quot;duh&quot; for somebody pondering if they should get it.  Yes, buy it, you won't have to search all over amazon.com for all his books, and you will save a lot of money in doing so.  This book goes right next to my bibles	2000-11-06
US	51346929	R2ZFK36F7H9W7A	0802451942	575913811	A Passion for Souls: The Life of D.L. Moody	Books	5	15	21	N	N	Inspirational	A a student of the scriptures, and being passionate about the Christian faith, this book will inspire you to grow in your faith.  This book is about the inspiring DL Moody, and his life. You will read of his trials/tribulations, victories, and other moments of the life of this great evangelist.	2000-11-06
US	51346929	R3V9KQXNNEEVAY	1568304331	528739605	Creating Killer Web Sites	Books	3	20	23	N	N	Nice but not realistic	This book is a great book if you want to learn to design the greatest web sites.  However, for professional web designers, this is not a reality, but only a dream, unless you live out in San Fransisco California.  David Siegel will show you a lot of awe inspiring work, and tell you a lot of useful things, however his design ideas are unrealistic.  <br />Most the time when designing sites for clients, you are dealing with people who hardly have the internet, and want this and that, and all sorts of web design &quot;no-no's&quot;.  They want the standard, buttons on the left with, banners/headers on top, and very little done with the bottom of the page.  Most companies are on a budget and don't set much aside for us web designers.  Oh yeah, this book also assumes you have at least several Adobe Products (which most web designers should)<br />I give this book a 3 for 3 reasons (positive). 1)  It's very inspiring. 2) It's an easy read, and Siegel presents the information very well. 3) It talks about some important issues.<br />The two reasons I give this book a bad mark are 1) Most the book is not written by David Siegel, but rather, his employees. But, Siegel has some sorta ego problem, so go fig. 2) It's expensive for such a thin book which does not contain that much information. It's expensive because it's printed on what seems like photo realistic paper, and is kinda shiny, and a lot of typographic layout goes into the design of this book.<br />This book is a must for all newbie web-designers who probably live on geocities, angelfire, etc.	2000-11-06
US	51346929	R21GHNO4W0WXWV	1565923006	456190295	Designing with JavaScript: Creating Dynamic Web Pages (Web Review Studio Series)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good book, but before it's time.	This was a great book for an introduction to programming with javascript.  The book presents everything in easy to understand methods, and examples that are practical, and real world.  The only draw back is that this book came out as soon as the 4.0 browsers did, and JavaScript has undergone quite a change since then.  Great book though, I look forward to the updated book coming out in December.	2000-11-06
US	51346929	R27D39HAN69UV	1571690506	455644403	Html 3 How-To: The Definitive Html 3 Problem-Solver	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Nice and deep	This is a great book that covers a lot of what you will need to know programming wise for web design on older browsers in HTML 3.  We still largely use HTML 3 even today, and this book still has much relevence, however, some parts of this book are written for the much older mosaic browsers and are out of date. For a more up to date book, see the HTML 4 version of this book	2000-11-06
US	51346929	R3OJTSJLJ6WQFP	0672485435	269746503	Stop Stealing Sheep & Find Out How Type Works	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Great book for the novice	This is a great book for the novice and should be on every designers bookshelf for typographic design.	2000-11-06
US	51346929	R3D35XBXQI9ELZ	083081258X	293307629	The Canon of Scripture	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Superb Scholarly Insight	This book is by far one of the most documented, if not the most documented books you will ever find on how the accepted holy scriptures of the protestant, catholic, and orthodox faiths (as well as gnostics and other groups).  <br />FF Bruce displays a great deal of knoweledge on the subject, and quotes many church fathers from their original documents from their input on what the canon of scripture is and should be.  I don't think you will need any other book on the development of the canon.<br />Although I also purchased the book on the canon of the new testament by Bruce Metzger. I heard that book is supposed to be the final source on the NT, and will read it as well, but I don't think anybody will be able to add much more to what this book says.	2000-11-02
US	51346929	RAXGJTYCBTCVX	031090336X	12858635	Comparative Study Bible, Revised	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Great Parallel Bible	This is a great parallel bible.  It surely picks 4 great translations to base itself off of, and I find looking at 4 translations at once is great.  The pages are fine enough to use a highlighter pen, and can withstand an ink pen without much, to no bleed through. Be careful though.  There are really not any &quot;notes&quot; to study in this translation, but, just footnotes from the various translations.  However, they left out/modified some of the Amplified footnotes simply because they would have too many footnotes otherwise.  Worth every penny.	2000-11-02
US	51346929	R3ROC1JN0G77M4	019511552X	503816898	The Problems of Philosophy	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Good intro to philosophy	This is a very solid, and good introduction to philosophy by one of the greatest english philosophers of the last 200 years.  Of course, one needs to read other philosophy books as well to complete any intro to philosophy.  <br />I give this book 4 stars though because Russell kinda sweeps some issues under the rug, and I feel he does this out of bias because they present problems for his personal philosophical doctrines. He also pronounces himself as a champion over some doctrines of philosophy, and does so without much grace. He thinks a lot of himself.<br />However, this book is still a good book to get you thinking about commonly discussed issues of philosophy.	2000-11-02
US	51346929	RPJDLQ6LO6J2E	0671203231	224357917	Why I Am Not a Christian and Other Essays on Religion and Related Subjects	Books	3	6	18	N	N	Not that great	If you think you are buying this book to help debunk christianity, you will be largely disappointed.  You might make the faint of heart change their view to go against christianity, but seriously folks, the logic used in this book is absurd. The other essays are much better than Russell's &quot;Why I'm not a Christian&quot;. <br />Largely, Russell bases the actions of &quot;christians&quot; over the years, and somehow he thinks this represents the views of Christ and the bible, and thinks the actions of &quot;christians&quot; over the year actually had the approval of Christ. <br />If you get this book, don't get it for &quot;why i'm not a christian&quot;, get it for the other essays.	2000-11-02
US	51346929	R1FQGC8MZ6PHDD	0884193748	916492396	The Bait of Satan: Your Response Determines Your Future	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Offense	Offense is one of the problems that plague the church today, and John Bevere exposes this with a fresh breathe of God.  Read this book and your eyes will be opened greatly to how satan operates so subtly.	2000-11-02
US	51346929	R25HP6VNA9TST5	019528318X	133702310	The Complete Parallel Bible with the Apocryphal/Deuterocanonical Books: New Revised Standard Version, Revised English Bible, New American Bible, New Jerusalem Bible	Books	5	31	34	N	N	Good bible	A good parallel bible which presents us with 4 scholarly translations, as well as the protestant/orthodox/catholic accepted books of the bible.  A good intro as well to the development of this bible.  <br />#Special note, this bible is not in leather, and very thick, and is hard back. You probably won't want to take this one to church, but will use it for in depth studies.  What else would we expect though from something published by Oxford?	2000-11-02
US	51346929	R3UOCIG0V9QM9V	0872202127	490824903	Against Academicians and the Teacher	Books	4	16	25	N	N	Good for intro to philosophy	I am a novice philosopher. I found (like any Augustine work) to be instrumental in my development as a student of the scriptures, and philosophy.  Things discussed mostly in this book are relevant to philosophy today and thought provoking. <br />Mostly the first section of the book has very little discussion by Augustine himself, rather, between two students of his who talk about if the wise man can know wisdom, what is wisdom and such (won't spoil the ending for you) and topics about the Academician views of philosophy where they state the wise man cannot know wisdom (or assent to anything at all for that matter).<br />The second section, The Teacher, is Augustine's dialogue between him and a student over what things such as names are. What the purpose of talking is and signs.<br />Although not the most exciting work out there, this book is a must for anybody who wishes to understand some basic philosophical concepts.  Also, this book is not like The Confessions, The City of God, or The Trinity. This book is meant to be a philosophical, not theological book, although there is some theology contained in it.	2000-10-03
US	51346929	R2L7TDTI61R96I	0884195759	238060174	Thus Saith The Lord: How to know when God is speaking to you through another (Inner Strength)	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Inspired no doubt...	This is a wonderful work by a modern day church prophet, John Bevere. He holds nothing back in this book concerning the role of the prophet, and prophetic in the Church. A good book for the church at large and extra helpful for those who have a prophetic gifting in the Lord to keep aware of the possible deception that the false prophet might have on a congregation, and as a warning to those who are prophetic of things satan will do.	2000-10-03
