US	51346159	R3VQZV2UFL2EDP	0786916400	543234143	The Sunless Citadel (Dungeons & Dragons Adventure, 3rd Edition)	Books	4	48	49	N	N	A Very Good Introduction	My group and I are all in our 30's. We're gamers from the old days who decided to give 3e a try. As the DM, I was very pleased with this module. My players were, too.<br />First, I was pressed for time before our first sitting and knew there was no chance I'd have time to read two new rulebooks *and* compose my first dungeon in 15+ years, so buying a ready-made adventure was a necessity, not a luxury.<br />Second, even if I'd had time, I wouldn't have wanted to start off with a module of my own creation the first time out of the gate with the new rules. The odds were too high I'd make it just about any degree of difficulty other than the right one. So, again, a pre-made module seemed a good idea to get used to the new rules and give me an idea what to do to make my own later without making them either too easy or impossibly hard.<br />Third, I needed to be able to have a fairly easy time running a game with a new set of rules unfamilair to us all *and* running the adventure at the same time. This module was very nicely balanced, giving my players ample oportunitys to try out their various skills and included an abundance of rules tips and assistance for me.<br />In short, this module met all of my needs very nicely. It gave the characters a couple of decent hooks and some mysteries to solve, gave each of them several ways to be involved throughout, and allowed them to use a number of different gameplay approaches (rather than just hacking-and-slashing) so that it stayed interesting. Meanwhile it gave *me* lots of help and several interesting NPCs to play for them while still allowing me to do some creative DMing as I went. I was entirely satisfied and my players had a great time without ever feeling like they were being led by the nose or were on rails.<br />Also, because it's nicely ambiguous about the larger questions and gameworld, I am able to integrate it seamlessly into the ideas I have for where I want to take their campaign. My only complaint would be that Oakhurst, as other have noted, seems like an afterthought. More detail there - especially the same kind of attention to NPC characterization that the dungeon itself has - would have been appreciated.<br />All I really hoped for when I bought this - the one option available for a brand-new set of characters - was an adequate starter module that would get my players and I back in the groove after all these years. What I got was considerably more. The gameplay (some fighting, some puzzle-solving, some diplomacy, some sleuthing) provided a nearly perfect start to my campaign and matched the tone I wanted to set exceptionally well. I would not hesitate to recommend it for others just starting with the new rules, whether they're brand-new to gaming or old-timers coming back after a long hiatus.Oakhurst, as other have noted, seems like an afterthought. More detail there - especially the same kind of attention to NPC characterization that the dungeon itself has - would have been appreciated.<br />All I really hoped for when I bought this - the one option available for a brand-new set of characters - was an adequate starter module that would get my players and I back in the groove after all these years. What I got was considerably more. The gameplay (some fighting, some puzzle-solving, some diplomacy, some sleuthing) provided a nearly perfect start to my campaign and matched the tone I wanted to set exceptionally well. I would not hesitate to recommend it for others just starting with the new rules, whether they're brand-new to gaming or old-timers coming back after a long hiatus.	2003-03-08
US	51346159	R1I1V9UZ0LXRZW	0345427211	240340372	Casting Shadows (Babylon 5: The Passing of the Techno-Mages, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Extremely Pleasant Surprise	I picked this book up in an airport, and didn't expect much of it, frankly. It was just something to do on a flight. Boy was I surprised.<br />I've read a few of the Babylon 5 books and they suffer from the malady that most TV series or movie spinoff books do: Very little active characterization or plot surprises. When dealing with someone else's characters, an author not only doesn't need to introduce the reader to individuals' character traits, he usually isn't even allowed to.<br />Not so here. Almost all the characters are fully realized within the confines of the novel. A couple of majour characters appeared briefly in the show, but Cavelos has been given wide leeway to build upon that limited exposure to present a fully detailed novel that could easily stand alone in its own right.<br />This is no ordinary TV spinoff book, it's a downright good read and almost a must for any B5 fan as it explores one of the little nuances of the show's arc that most of us always wanted to know more about but, with the cancellation of Crusade, never really got to fully explore: the Technomages.<br />Recommended wholeheartedly for B5 fans and with little reservation for other who might find the idea of technomages intriguing.	2001-09-04
US	51346159	R21U4Z5BQGRE3M	0886777631	634336906	City of Golden Shadow (Otherland, Volume 1)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Nice Surprise	I did something in buying this book I almost never do: I picked it based on the cover art (which was not the art displayed above, though that's nice, too). Well, the cover art and the fact that it seemed to have done all right - there were two more in the series sitting next to it on the shelves. But I needed something new and interesting to read, so I took a chance and took it home. I tried to set my expectations low.<br />I was *very* pleasantly surprised. This book is terrific. It's a slow starter; I had to work to get into the thick of it - but once I settled in, I was well and truly hooked. I went straight on to read the second and third and plan to get the fourth right quick.<br />At first blush, it's not all that obvious the series could be so interesting. The plot is plenty original, but it could easily have been a waste of dead trees. Williams has a fine line to walk here - the nature of the Grail Network in which our protagonists find themselves is such that he could easily stretch this baby out forever just moving them from one sim world to another. Sometimes I can't help but wonder if that's not just what he's done, but the reality is, he's balanced well - give us too few worlds and one of the better features of his idea will go to waste, too many and he's padding. Four novels is not too many to tell this story (yes, it could probably have been told in three) nor is it too few to take advantage of the central idea. He's certainly a good enough author to have held my rather fickle interest and I can't wait to get the last installment and find out how it ends.<br />However, he falls short of getting five stars from me for uneven characterization. The most rivetting, interesting character in the book, by far, is Dread. That's to be expected, since Dread is one of the more malignantly evil - yet compelling - characters I have recently experienced (he's no Hannibal Lector, but you'll have a hard time not being repulsed and attracted at the same time).<br />But the protagonists, despite a lot more &quot;screen time&quot;, aren't nearly so interesting. !Xabbu takes second in interestingness - throwing a Bushman into this post-cyberpunk mix was a daring and provocative choice and he's certainly the best of the &quot;good guys&quot; and the one with the most depth. But repeated attempts to juxtapose his &quot;primitive&quot; viewpoint against the hyper-technogical menace the main characters face is not yeilding the kind of insight I had hoped it would. There's a real opportunity here to explore our own technological dependence I feel is underdeveloped to make room for more descriptions of the settings (not that I mind hashing these thoughts out on my own, but I'd like Williams to do a little more to show what he thinks about it than just point in the general direction of it).<br />Jonas is next; the nature of his involvement is such that we can only find out who and what he is as he himself does - and project forward what we think he will discover and see if we're right. That's working only too well.<br />The rest of the main characters range from downright uninteresting to wooden to under-realized. Orlando, Sayers, and Jongleur come out all right, though I've got farther into the heads of other writers' characters in far less time. Rene should be the character we relate to best - if anyone is in this novel to represent &quot;us&quot; it's her. Yet I find her limited and fairly dull.<br />That said, most of these people have their own voices and (three books in) it's generally possible to predict how they will think and act and what they will say when confronted with a new situation. That's proof Williams is doing his work in transmitting these people's natures to us better than the vast majority of writers ever do even with fewer charcters to work with.<br />All told, I am very pleased with this &quot;accidental&quot; discovery and would not hesitate to recommend it to fans of both SF and fantasy, two genres it blends nicely to create a unique and fascinating reading experience.icely to create a unique and fascinating reading experience.	2001-07-07
US	51346159	R278S3PDAS4YX1	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brilliant!	I am not ordinarily disposed to being drawn into overly hyped fads and Harry Potter certainly seemed like one such to me. Add in that it's a series for juveniles and it's not hard to understand how it took over a year for me to give Harry Potter a chance. But someone close to me suggested I might enjoy them, so I picked up Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone and gave it a shot.<br />I am very glad that I did. It has been a long time since I enjoyed a book so much. I am in my 30's and found it as fun and enchanting as any teenager. Sure, it's written at a middle school reading level and is lacking in the kind of great depth one would expect of &quot;adult&quot; literature, but providing that is not its function. Rather, it exists to draw the reader into a unique and delightful world where magic actually works and the good guy can win with heart, grit, and imagination.<br />Harry's miserable existence is transformed overnight upon the discovery that he is a wizard and heir to a magnificent repuatation. But that reputation has a dark side, since he has earned not only widespread admiration but some dark and implacable enemies. To save himself and his friends, Harry must seize hold of his legacy and use every trick he can learn, despite his youth. A tried and true formula for adoscent fiction, to be sure, but the Harry Potter series is one of those rare examples that rises above its formula and presents the reader with something truly brilliant.<br />Harry's journey of discovery begins here and I encourage anyone to join him for a few hours of very pleasant reading. I found myself completely drawn in and, even though I knew it was a juvenile work and that no serious harm would ever come to Harry or his friends, Rowling nevertheless had me on the edge of my seat on numerous occasions as Harry finds himself in seemingly insurmountable difficulty. Extricate him from such trouble with wit and creativity, while maintaining the reader's interest and faith in the narrative, is one of the hallmarks of Rowling's achievement in creating this wonderful little universe. Another is a terrific feel for creating character-driven humour. Harry Potter books are full to the brim with flashes of wit derived from the foibles and idiosyncracies of their exquisitely drawn and thoroughly knowable characters. I found myself plowing straight through all four books in short order (and they really do get better as you go, too). I now find myself anxious for the next (and, of course, the upcoming film) to be released.<br />Sometimes things attract a lot of hype because they truly deserve them. Rare though they are, this is one of those cases. I encourage anyone who wants a delightful read to pick up this brilliant beginning to the series.of the hallmarks of Rowling's achievement in creating this wonderful little universe. Another is a terrific feel for creating character-driven humour. Harry Potter books are full to the brim with flashes of wit derived from the foibles and idiosyncracies of their exquisitely drawn and thoroughly knowable characters. I found myself plowing straight through all four books in short order (and they really do get better as you go, too). I now find myself anxious for the next (and, of course, the upcoming film) to be released.<BR>Sometimes things attract a lot of hype because they truly deserve them. Rare though they are, this is one of those cases. I encourage anyone who wants a delightful read to pick up this brilliant beginning to the series.	2001-05-09
US	51346159	R2JMSI1NC6VCK5	0744000416	116230003	Final Fantasy IX Official Strategy Guide (Video Game Books)	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Gorgeous, Thorough and Annoying	Strategy guides have to walk a fine line. We want them to help us make sure we get the most from our gaming experience (I certainly don't have the time to play a game like FFIX more than once, so I want to squeeze everything out of it the first - and only - time I play it) but we don't want them to tell us so much that the experience of playing the game becomes a boring, rote exercise in walking off the instructions in the book.<br />In this respect, the last few FF games have come with terrific guides, and this one is no exception. The guide does a fine job of balancing letting the reader know what to do with not spoiling what's going to happen.<br />Unfortunately, the PlayOnline model is easily the most annoying &quot;innovation&quot; I have yet to come across in a strategy guide. I'm sure it seemed like a good idea when someone suggested it during the book's production, but I am sick to death of having to get up from my chair and walk to my computer (in another room, and which I must leave logged on whenever I play) every time something important is coming up because the crucial detail I need to maximize my gameplay is always on the web site. Furthermore, the side quests are not in the book and the book is far less useful than it's predecessor at letting me know when I should (or must) do them.<br />The bestiary and walkthroughs (including the web portions) are marvelous and thorough. The images and layout are gorgeous. The balance between spoiling the plot and assisting the reader in making the most of the game is all but perfect. But I have come to well and truly hate this book because the PlayOnline component is so utterly annoying.<br />Buy it if you need a guide (and you do). Just make sure to let the publishers know that we really hope they just put all the stuff we need between the pages of the guide for FFX.	2001-02-27
US	51346159	R2QITOGFRZSPCH	0312864256	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	4	17	24	N	N	A Solid Continuation	I was a bit concerned after the previous entry (Path of Daggers) that Jordan was running out of steam. Not a lot seemed to happen and I was worried he was padding the story some. And the fact that Matt was completely absent was a real bother.<br />This one removed most of my worries. Not a lot happens in the first half or so - which is not unusual for a WoT novel, really - but the ending is (almost) spectacular. We get to see a lot of Matt this time - a very good thing. The three &quot;main&quot; characters - Rand, Matt and Perrin - each get their own distinct cliffhangers, of sorts (Rand's big task is essentially complete at novel's end but we won't know the repercussions for some time).<br />The one real problem with the book is that Perrin's dilemma is set up and left hanging very early, then we don't hear from him again. That's okay, as it appears a fairly minour subplot, but Jordan usually spreads stuff out through the book better. A few of the characters we've come to expect to hear from more get short shrift (i.e., Egwene and Elaida) but that's a small thing. Contrasting that are some excellent interactions, a few truly amazing events (Rand's climactic scene in particular) and the usual splashes of terrific, character-driven humour.<br />If you've been reading WoT, this one will be sure to please.	2000-11-29
US	51346159	R2D3M2CO2K60SE	0553576305	727642571	Vast	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Well worth the effort	I lumbered through Deception Well in order to read this book. I didn't really enjoy that, to be honest (see my review of that book for more). But this one was worth the trouble.<br />I needed to have the background from the previous book for this one to make any sense, but, once I had it, this one was a real gem. Nagata is among the more imaginative and detail-driven authors now publishing (in this or any genre). Sometimes, yes, she gets off the track of keeping the humanity of her characters the central principle (and their humanity is very much at issue) and she still tends to assume too much. But my biggest complaint with Deception Well has been more than adequately corrected here: she doesn't just tell us that a character feels or thinks a certain way and then assert that this makes sense without any support - she genuinely shows it and makes the reader see it.<br />This is not a simple book. It is dense and it requires far more work to read and understand than 99% of the pulp on the shelves. As such, it was a real treat, and well worth the time and trouble required to get the most out of it.	2000-11-29
US	51346159	RJQO6P71WF5OS	0312867867	145563216	Faith of the Fallen (Sword of Truth, Book 6)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Excellent writing and characters but a tired plot	Terry Goodkind is an excellent writer and each installment of The Sword of Truth shows steady improvement in his style and ability to craft interesting characters doing things I care about. Most particularly, he gets his characters into situations so impossible that I cannot imagine how they will get out and I find myself genuinely worried about them (even though I know that it will work out in the end) - always a solid sign that an author has succeeded.<br />But that points to the problem, as well. As other reviewers have noted, the outline for this plot is not much of a stretch from previous entries in the series. Richard is taken by an enemy while Kahlan is in dire straits facing impossible odds. Richard's straightforward honesty wins over seemingly implaccable opponents and learns a skill many take a lifetime to master in almost no time at all so that everything works out just fine. Fantasy tends to be formulaic as it is, and a fantasy author who does more than merely move his characters around map meeting exotic beings is always to be commended, but an installment series should strive for more variety of plot.<br />One thing worth noting about Faith of the Fallen is that the political/sociological message that was left more or less to the allegorical level in previous novels is now blatant. No-one familiar with the work of Ayn Rand or Robert Heinlein will find the insights offered all that new; rather, they'll be nodding their heads throughout. Personally, I think it's marvelous that a fantasy author has the courage to bring such ideas to the forefront of his work - and perhaps expose them to many who would otherwise never have a chance to encounter them. But if you prefer to keep your politics and your novels separate, this book will frustrate you. Goodkind never goes so far as Ms. Rand, but there are times when Richard's speeches begin to seem like Francisco D'Anconia's in their length.<br />I waited anxiously for this book to appear and snapped up a first edition almost as soon as it was available. I am glad I read it, and I encourage anyone familiar with the series to buy in and keep reading because Goodkind has definitely delivered another page turner full of interesting people. But I cannot give it better than three stars because of its derivative plot.dition almost as soon as it was available. I am glad I read it, and I encourage anyone familiar with the series to buy in and keep reading because Goodkind has definitely delivered another page turner full of interesting people. But I cannot give it better than three stars because of its derivative plot.	2000-10-11
US	51346159	RKC757SSJZ0B8	0553576291	490357190	Deception Well	Books	3	13	15	N	N	A very slow read	Given the Helpful/Not Helpful ratings of previous posts, Ms. Nagata seems  to have fans who will punish any dissent, but dissent I must.<br />I am  giving this book an average rating because I liked it but it has serious  flaws. First and foremost, was an extremely slow, laborious read. Her  characters were moderately interesting but they did not really grow or  change in any significant fashion. For all his introspection, not even Lot  changes so much as he moves around and lets events dictate what will happen  to him. Urban's big surprise decision at the end was uetterly predictable  since his character moved not one iota the entire novel. Other majour  characters seem to act capriciously or randomly; one minute they're going  one way, the other they've reversed themselves and while Lot seems to have  a clue why (we are told anyway), Nagata never makes it terribly clear to  us.<br />So, too the very creative society Nagata has envisioned. I found it  intriguing, but it was so diffusely and haphazardly described that I never  felt terribly invested in the conflicts that arose from it. And therein,  perhaps lies the real problem with the book. The setting, concepts and  central idea are all marvelous but the execution is second-rate. The real  conflict arises so much from the setting, and so little from deep and  convincing characterization, that Nagata is forced, again and again, to  assert that events make sense or that a character's actions are reasonable  - but I rarely felt that way simply from reading what happened. A truly  great book would not need so much explanation and assertion.<br />I really had  a hard time &quot;getting into&quot; this book even after I was halfway  through it - so much so that, when I took it on a plane, I bought another  book to read in flight because this one was too difficult to read steadily.  Still, I liked the book. As an intellectual exercise, it was plenty  interesting. It is written intelligently and fairly sparkles with the kind  of imagination and creativity about ideas, cultures and settings that marks  the very best SF produced today. The problem is, that isn't enough to set  it above so much other quality work being produced.<br />In short: I won't  hesitate to recommend that you buy and read this book if you have some free  time, but if time constraints limit you to only reading the best, you'd be  best served by looking elsewhere.he kind  of imagination and creativity about ideas, cultures and settings that marks  the very best SF produced today. The problem is, that isn't enough to set  it above so much other quality work being produced.<br />In short: I won't  hesitate to recommend that you buy and read this book if you have some free  time, but if time constraints limit you to only reading the best, you'd be  best served by looking elsewhere.	2000-09-01
US	51346159	RSEIX7SXL1IO0	0812515285	646002347	A Fire Upon The Deep (Zones of Thought)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Very good	This book is very good. It would stand alone as a book well-worth reading  even if it didn't have a &quot;sort of&quot; sequel waiting in the wings  (&quot;sort of&quot; because you don't really have to have read this book  to enjoy A Deepness in the Sky, but it helps) that's even better.<br />As with  so much of today's best SF, Vinge has created a downright fantastic  Universe and peopled it with interesting and compelling characters doing  fascinating things. That's a lot of superlatives, I know, but every one is  deserved. The creative exercise of first rank here is, of course, the  group-mind race of dog-like creatures. I was impressed that Vinge  introduces us to this race without directly describing them - yet he pulls  it off; a remarkable feat. Next is the division of the galaxy into Zones,  described elsewhere herein. While the alleged scientific underpinnings for  this phenomenon are never adequately explained, it's a forgivable error,  and in any event, less of a suspension of disbelief is required than most  SF books will throw at us. Then there's the plant-like protagonists and the  extemely well-drawn rougue from the distant past.<br />The book's chief flaw  is that the single driving event of the novel's plot, the plague, is never  explained that well. FoOr a time I thought he was leaving it to be  discovered by me as it was by the characters, but this didn't really turn  out to be the case. In the end, I didn't have a much better idea than I had  at the start about what happened. This made the resolution seem a bit too  pat, frankly.<br />All in all, a great book but not extraordinary. For that,  you need only move on to the sequel. But read this invigorating and  compelling book first - you're bound to enjoy it and you'll get more out of  A Deepness in the Sky if you do.	2000-09-01
US	51346159	RADBUI9K1ULTN	0812536355	288499140	A Deepness in the Sky (Zones of Thought)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Extraordinary!	If Neal Stephenson hadn't published a novel this year I'd have no doubts  whatsoever about which book will win the Hugo: It would be A Deepness in  the Sky without question. As it is, I suspect this may be one of those  years they grant a tie, because this is easily one of the five best SF  books I have read in as many years.<br />Based on the Universe created in  Vinge's first Hugo winner - A Fire Upon the Deep - A Deepness in the Sky is  really a prequel. The early adventures of one central character from Fire  are detailed - all taking place some 30,000 years or so earlier. And we  really get two stories for one here as Vinge seamlessly incorporates the  events of Pham's antecedent youth (singlehandedly creating an interstellar  empire) with the &quot;present day&quot; difficulties in which he finds  himself embroiled while joining in on an investigation to a mysterious  planet that revolves around a star with very unusual properties. While  there, they come into a conflict with another human society with some  nefarious - but fascinating - tendencies. Either Pham's decades-long quest  to overthrow them or his lifelong work creating an intrestellar trading  society would be enough plot to satisfy most writers. But not Vinge, as  those are just two of several interconnected plotlines in a dense,  page-turning festival of creativity.<br />Fans of Vinge's previous work will,  of course, expect some well-drawn and wildly imaginative aliens and the  book satisfies in this respect as well. The planet-bound, arachnoid race  the humans are watching have been imbued by Vinge with a truly unique  culture. The nature and culture of the arachnoids - in the tradition of all  the very best SF - flows naturally, logically and gracefully from the  environemnt in which they exist - an environment not quite like any other  in my experience with the genre. Planetside they have their own subplots  and political intrigues. Again, whereas these alone would be enough to  sustain a novel for lesser writers, here they are merely perfectly  integrated apsects of the larger, epic story.<br />Neither does he skimp on  characterization. Human or alien every important character is exquisitely  drawn and - almost to a man - interesting to know.<br />The long and the  short of it is you should buy this book! It is truly extraordinary. I  personally recommend reading A Fire Upon the Deep first, but you can  understand one without the other, or read them in either order and still  enjoy them - I just think the order they were written in is best.l for lesser writers, here they are merely perfectly  integrated apsects of the larger, epic story.<br />Neither does he skimp on  characterization. Human or alien every important character is exquisitely  drawn and - almost to a man - interesting to know. <br />The long and the  short of it is you should buy this book! It is truly extraordinary. I  personally recommend reading A Fire Upon the Deep first, but you can  understand one without the other, or read them in either order and still  enjoy them - I just think the order they were written in is best.	2000-09-01
US	51346159	R3PXAG8O9VVYO8	0688123058	85028090	Art and Physics: Parallel Visions in Space, Time, and Light	Books	5	36	41	N	N	Marvelous	I've read a lot of books in my life. This is probably the best. The juxtaposition of generally exclusive topics - physics and art - is enough to put this work near the top on anyone's list. That it does it so well,  and so meticulously, sends it to the head of the list.<br />Schlain's  exploration of the parallels between mankind's expanding understanding of  the physical world and the concurrent changes in styles of physical art is  gripping. I'm sure there are some flaws in his facts, but these pale in  comparison to his monumental achievement in this work.<br />I had a fair  understanding of physics before starting the book and finished it better  informed. At the same time, my admittedly weak knowledge of art history was  more than supplemented. His explanation for the congruence he recounts is  compelling, but he doesn't force it down the reader's throat. Rather, in a  manner that is all too rare these days, Schlain presents the evidence,  draws his conclusions and modestly leaves the reader to decide if the two  match up. That I already subscribed to the explanation before I read the  book may bias my opinion somewhat, but I must say that the conclusion is  not the book's justification. Too many books are the opposite: They depend  completely on the validity of thin insights and, so, end up padded with  reams of extra pages drawing spurious connections to weak facts (apparently  in the mistaken belief that repetition will bolster weak associations). By  contrast, Schlain's conclusion appears as more of an afterthought.<br />Here,  the central insight is in the parallels recounted, not the conclusions to  be draw therefrom. And the book makes a solid case for the existence of  these parallels, notwithstanding the odd factual error.<br />Read this book.  You'll learn a lot, even if you're already familiar with one subject or the  other, and your thinking about the world will be shaken up a bit.	2000-04-22
US	51346159	R3TX8I39042LDB	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	4	34	40	N	N	4 1/2 Stars, Really	I was in the latter half of my 20's when I found this book. I might have found it sooner, but I'd given up on fantasy years before. This is the book (series) that revitalized fantasy for me.<br />Eye of the World starts a bit  slow. Jordan takes his time introducing his characters and his world. I  like that, myself, though others may want the action to get going a bit  sooner. Wait it out. 150 pages in you won't be able to put it down.<br />While  it is certainly true that Jordan has started stretching it out some (Path  of Daggers is a majour disappointment), the series is still well worth the  (considerable) investment of time and energy it requires. This isn't just  because Jordan's found a new take on the genre, or because there are few  works that rival its scope. The main and best reason to read WoT is that  Jordan has created a cast of truly interesting characters that you  sincerely care about and want to spend more time with when the book comes  to an end. You'll be entranced by the adventures they find themselves in.  You'll rave for or rage at the brilliant or boneheaded decisions they make.  You'll feel what they feel and worry about whether or not they'll do what  you can see they ought to do, if only they'll notice. You'll wonder what  will happen to them next when you get to the end of the most recent  installment and jones (hard!) for a fix even though you know it'll be  months before there's another.<br />It's true that, as the series progresses,  the bulk of the novels increases out of proportion to the amount of  adventure in each. Jordan seems to feel it necessary to keep us up-to-date  by reminding us a lot of what's gone before. As the series wears on there's  a lot that's gone before, so, for those who read the books one after the  other, the reminders can get a bit annoying. All I can say is, it beats the  alternative - I recently read the second book in the Song of Ice and Fire  series and was consistently frustrated by the author's failure to add a  single sentence reminding me why the bloody dagger was so significant for  half the book. Those single sentences are very useful in WoT, even if, in  aggregate, they make each book quite a bit longer.<br />All things considered,  this is one terrific series. Read it.to add a  single sentence reminding me why the bloody dagger was so significant for  half the book. Those single sentences are very useful in WoT, even if, in  aggregate, they make each book quite a bit longer.<br />All things considered,  this is one terrific series. Read it.	2000-04-09
US	51346159	R3FAGFB3P9QZ7N	0671877046	92373266	Glory Road	Books	1	3	29	N	N	Unreadable - Avoid!	This book is something I never thought I could say existed: A Heinlein novel I can't stand! I love Heinlein, I revere him. He's one of my three favourite authors and it was always my intention to read every word he ever  wrote. I will never accomplish that goal because this book stinks - I got  perhaps a third of the way through it and could not force myself to turn  another page.<br />If you want a good read, almost any other Heinlein work  will be sure to please - even the three or four troubled, overlong,  repetitive books he wrote when he had a brain tumour are masterpieces  compared to this.<br />Spend your money wisely - spend it on something  besides this book.	2000-04-09
US	51346159	R37927XUSIJB2	0140245480	245442817	The Red Queen: Sex and the Evolution of Human Nature	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Opened my eyes to a whole new world	This is the book that introduced me to what has become a favourite avocation: Evolutionary Biology.<br />The Red Queen is a fascinating and accessible introduction to a profoundly interesting way of looking at the  world. While reading it, I couldn't put it down. I found it far more  fascinating than bestseller fodder like The Hotzone, and to have more  staying power than the other usual fare of the bestseller lists (i.e., diet  and smarmy self-help books).<br />In trying to answer the seemingly simple  question of how sexual reproduction came to dominate despite the faster  reproductory potential of the asexual strategy, Ridley has cover the entire  subject of how we came to act and function the way we do. After reading it  I found could not look at things quite the same way again.	2000-03-26
US	51346159	R1KZSQX28IECXJ	0028621697	347046128	The New York Public Library Desk Reference	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Invaluable - if you can crosscheck	This is a fantastic book to have on your shelf for those times when you simply must know something right this minute. But I don't recommend it as a stand alone source because there are some errors in it (surprising for a 3d  edition).<br />Still, as a general reference, this volume is unsurpassed. On  the whole, it rates as &quot;very good&quot; - the scope is broader than  any other book of its kind and it's laid out well enougn that it's pretty  easy to find the information you want when you need it.	2000-03-26
US	51346159	R1N6CCJV6M82QB	0691019835	206555027	Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist	Books	5	11	14	N	N	An excellent and readable introduction	Nietzsche's work is difficult and often lends itself to varying interpretation. As such, an overview is a great help in making headway toward understanding his writing.<br />This book is most likely the very best  resource available for people who don't know much about Nietzsche but want  to. Kaufmann's work is both readable and educational. You will be much  better prepared to tackle Nietzsche's own writing after reading this  overview than you would be without it.	2000-03-26
US	51346159	R3RTYNXQBBS5CB	0312932081	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wonderful!	My friend, on discovering that I had not yet read it, grabbed a copy of Ender's Game, shoved it in my hand, and said, &quot;Read it. Now.&quot; Well, I did - and I was instantly converted. Before I was through, I'd  wound my way through the sequels (which, though they frequently fail to  live up to the original, are still well worth a read).<br />All in all,  Ender's Game more than lived up to my friend's strong recommendation and I  have added this Hugo and Nebula Award winner to that short list of books I  give to friends with complete confidence they'll love it as much as I did.  I particularly like the fact that I can give it to a 12 year-old boy or a  30-something woman and still feel this confidence. It's a rare book that  has such broad appeal.<br />Perhaps the strongest comment I can make in favour  of this novel is that, after finishing it, I was saddened because I'd used  up all the time I had to spend with Ender and his compatriots. The sequels  helped, to be sure, but the characters are somehow more genuine to me in  this work than the later ones.<br />I recommend this book without  reservation.	2000-03-26
US	51346159	RF8SEC91XCP3Q	0553573314	199085075	The Diamond Age	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Stephenson's the best thing going right now	I cannot say enough good things about Neal Stephenson! This one was my second Stephenson novel and it was an unalloyed joy to read.<br />I loved the contrast created between Victorianism and Conficianism - the creative  genius that allowed this juxtaposition to be explored in a believable  fashion is part of why Stephenson's the hottest writer in the genre he  bends with such aplomb. Further, here he manages to combine sympathetic  characterization with an appealing edginess in such a way as to make the  book very difficult to put down.<br />The multithreaded plot does reveal one  weakness, common to most of Stephenson's work: Because he so frequently  jumps from one perspective or time stream to another, the reader  occasionally loses track of when or where the plot has taken him. This is  not a huge problem provided you know to watch for it - it mainly manifests  itself in less-than-stellar formatting (a minour break in a continuing  thread will sometimes be broken up by a blank line but a change of  perspective is not always made so obvious).<br />The only other possible  source of complaint is his tendency to end his works so ambiguously.  Personally, I like it (usually) because he leaves me free to extrapolate  what I think happens next based on what he's told me. Others who need more  &quot;closure&quot; may be frustrated and/or feel that the ending was  rushed or slapdash.<br />All in all, any Stephenson book is a worthy way to  spend one's time and money - this is no exception. For myself, I'd advise  reading Snow Crash first but that isn't - strictly speaking - a necessity.  But do read this one.	2000-03-26
US	51346159	R1QYV9GLXRFWHW	1888766026	551574620	Bulletproof Privacy: How to Live Hidden, Happy and Free!	Books	4	31	36	N	N	Very, very good - as a primer	Mr. &quot;Party&quot; has compiled a very good starter book for ensuring one's privacy but this is not a treatise that will provide everything you need to know.<br />Still, you probably won't need another book because you  probably won't feel it necessary even to follow all the suggestions in this  volume. And there are plenty here - more than enough for most purposes.<br />In short, this is a great place to start if you feel the need to take  back some privacy, but it won't teach you how to disappear.	2000-03-26
US	51346159	R2TXBPJHEI253I	156686903X	999017626	Final Fantasy VIII Official Strategy Guide (Video Game Books)	Books	4	85	86	N	N	Almost perfect	An excellent guide for an outstanding game. Since it is simply impossible to do everything in this wonderful game without a guide, you have to buy one. This guide is almost perfect.<br />I especially liked that the author  went to great pains to give the essential tips without spoiling the  surprises or turning the actual playing of the game into an exercise in  carrying out the guide's instructions (a real problem with the FFVII  guide). So, since this was the guide's goal, I was willing to put up with  some ambiguity and the occassionally odd placements of information - I had  to read pretty far ahead sometimes to avoid missing crucial tips or else I  missed out on things.<br />The only truly bad part of the book is the area  maps: they are incomplete and the way they are laid out is almost  incomprehensible. Fortunately, you shouldn't need them often. Of small  consequence, but occasionally very frustrating, there are some factual  errors in the guide (perhaps things that were changed in the game after  they were written in) but this is a pretty minour glitch - overall the book  is much better on accuracy than most guides.<br />The real high point of the  guide - apart from having a thorough walk-through that doesn't spoil the  game's surprises - is the appendix, especially the bestiary and lists of  cards and items. I found these indispensible and, while the FFVII guide's  bestiary was almost useless, here it is comprehensive and easy to use.<br />On the whole, this guide is very, very good. It will enhance your  enjoyment of the game rather than spoiling it. I don't have time to play a  game this big twice - or spend the rest of my life hunting for hints about  side quests and extras - so a guide is an essential tool for me. That said,  I was entirely satisfied with this guide and would not hesitate to  recommend it to others.	2000-03-17
US	51346159	R2ZN55Z4GXJW33	0380973464	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Perhaps Stephenson's Best Novel To Date	Having read all of his work, I am torn as to whether this one or Snow Crash is the best. But what a difficult choice, since they're both wonderful.<br />Stephenson delights in plots which jump around in time and  space but some of his earlier novels have been marred ever so slightly by  the difficulty of transitioning from one time or locale to the next. That  problem is entirely absent here - he jumps from WWII to the present day in  almost every chapter but does it so smoothly you never lose track of the  narrative.<br />The plot is also thickly woven and the details showcase  Stephenson penchant for exhaustive research. One cannot say enough good  things about a book that teaches as it entertains, and Stephenson excels at  this in every outing. Nothing's changed here - you will walk away from this  book (pretty quickly, too, since it's so hard to put down) having learned  more than you ever thought you'd want to know about encryption - and a few  other things, too.<br />Personally, I would suggest reading one of his other  novels (Snow Crash or maybe Zodiac) first then reading this one but you  can't really go wrong with any of them. One thing is certain: Stephenson is  the hottest writer of speculative fiction today. Check it out!	2000-03-05
US	51346159	R1AVGVTYD22Q40	0553573306	229747971	Brightness Reef (The Uplift Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great new perspective	Having read and enjoyed the first Uplift Trilogy, I came to this book with high expectations. In a way, Brin dashed my expectations by radically changing the setting and context - and the plot he laid out in no way  conformed to what I saw coming. This is one of his strengths, though: He  has a rare ability to explore diverse topics in unusual ways.<br />Suffice it  to say, this book succeeds marvelously. I found myself staying awake late  into the night to find out what was going to happen next. The diverse and  fascinating races depicted, and Brin's ability to imbue each with clearly  defined points of view without lecturing about it, are the highlights of  the book. So too, the nature of the multiple levels of conflict that drive  the plot. My only fault with the book is that, in order to get all the  different points of view across, Brin had to break up the story into too  many parallel storylines each told from a single character's perspective.  While this was essential if he was going to express all the different  characteristics of The Six, it tends to break up the flow of the story,  making it harder to follow at times as one jumps from one arena to another.  Thankfully, Brin handles this well and this is at worst a  quibble.<br />However, I don't recommend reading this book if one has not  already read the first Uplift trilogy. I'm sure it could stand alone as a  novel, but I am convinced that a thorough understanding of the Galactic  culture in which the story takes place is vital to fully appreciating the  conflict and the book.<br />So, if the first Uplift trilogy was to your  liking and you're wondering whether or not to give the second a try, I say  buy the book. You won't be disappointed. OTOH, if you haven't yet read the  first trilogy, I strongly suggest you go and get Sundiver and work your way  up to this one from there. I doubt you'll regret it.	2000-02-23
US	51346159	R227MO7Z84BB0U	0312863551	562507215	The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress	Books	5	37	41	N	N	Not to be missed	Forced to pick a favourite book by Heinlein, one of my favourite writers, I would have to choose this one. Even leaving aside the (not inconsiderable) benefit of the excellent explication of solid political  philosophy in the book, it's a great read.<br />First of all, the entire book  is written in Lunaspeak. This pigdin English certainly takes some getting  used to at first but one is able to read it after a chapter or so without  even noticing. How simple it seems until you stop to consider the effort  involved in accomplishing such a feat. And there's no doubt that Lunaspeak  is vital to the success of the book.<br />Then there's the story: fun and  important both. Hugely entertaining, so you don't notice that you're also  learning something. As usual, Heinlein has populated the book with richly  drawn and highly entertaining charcters who matter to the reader as  individuals. The highest compliment I can pay a book is that I'm sorry when  it ends b/c I want to spend more time with the people in the book. Having  read it numerous times, I'm still a bit sad every time I get to the last  page b/c my time with these people is done. How much more difficult it is  to accomplish this task - very few writers, even good ones, ever even  approach it. Heinlein did it consistently and this is no exception. To do  so while also acheiving so much else makes this the best of his impressive  collection of work.	2000-02-23
US	51346159	R12120OUXOA51W	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	5	29	37	N	N	A Must For Any SF Reader	I won't go so far as to say that this is the greatest work of fiction ever written - it is not. It suffers on several counts, not least of which is that it marks the real beginning of Heinlein's later descent into rambling  on at too great a length propounding on the benefits of free love at the  expense of gripping storytelling.<br />That said, it nevertheless earns 5  stars not just for its well-deserved place near the top of the SF pantheon  of 'must reads' but on its merits. This is no mere rayguns-and-aliens space  opera and as such it was, in and of itself, also a contributor to a  fundamental shift in the nature of all SF published afterward. I don't  think it's going to far to say that this book reshaped the genre  permanently.<br />One thing is certain: If you haven't read this book - or  much of what Heinlein wrote after - it is very different form what you're  expecting. At times it seems a simple enough story. But by taking Micheal  Valentine Smith and raising him in an alien culture, Heinlein is able to  draw out much of what it means to be human - his main character, after all,  is an alien human who must learn for himself how his fellows work to try to  fit in among them. A monumental endeavour for its time and no less relavent  today. And, at the risk of repeating myself, this effort continues to this  day in much of the better SF being published. The newer takes on the  subject may not agree with Heinlein's point of view on the nature of  humanity, but they cannot ignore it and in many ways they owe their ability  to approach the issue in print to this book.<br />So, it's important. Does  that also translate into a good read? Yes, it most certainly does. This  novel is packed with fun and interesting characters interacting with  panache and an ever-present hint of heresy that stimulates the mind to  explore new ground even as it makes you laugh and/or nod your head in  fervent agreement.<br />So, if you're a fan of SF you need to read this book  not only b/c no SF collection is complete without it but also b/c it's  great fun.t only b/c no SF collection is complete without it but also b/c it's  great fun.	2000-02-23
US	51346159	R2TH4K5XXHIZ73	068482471X	877375023	DARWIN'S DANGEROUS IDEA: EVOLUTION AND THE MEANINGS OF LIFE	Books	5	0	7	N	N	Phenomenal	Imagine a book about science that you simply cannot put down. This is that book.	1999-12-01
US	51346159	R1KUXHO5T6MB88	0399128964	88529599	Dune	Books	5	4	4	N	N	My very favourite book	A book which can be read on many levels, every reading reveals something new. As art, it has few equals. Herbert creates an entire world and peoples it with interesting, complex people embroiled in high drama - which makes for a ripping good story. Its  explorations of the nature of messianic religion and societal dependence on  a single, fragile substance are as relevant today as ever. Not to be missed  by any SF fan.	1999-11-26
US	51346159	R2HJ96IPYPV8VL	0679742018	162743212	Give War a Chance: Eyewitness Accounts of Mankind's Struggle Against Tyranny, Injustice and Alcohol-Free Beer	Books	5	11	12	N	N	O'Rourke's Funniest Book	As a big fan of O'Rourke, it's hard to choose one best book but, if I had to, it would be this one. Will provide a great introduction to his work for those unfamiliar with it and a lot of fun for those who already know him.  O'Rourke is known as a conservative yet you won't find him proselytizing  here (well, not much and never directly). Rather, he brings his capacious  wit and remarkable ability to entertain and inform at the same time to a  variety of topics. The reader will laugh out loud and learn a few things at  the same time.	1999-11-25
US	51346159	R2YRPHILAQEFMB	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	5	12	19	N	N	One of the Few Enduring Classics	It is a tribute to the power and influence of this book that it has generated so many reviews - and that the reviews look like a particularly vicious USENet thread. This is not to say that the nastiness becomes the  book, but it points eloquently to the book's importance.<br />There are  perhaps five books I feel compelled to read again and again, every couple  of years regardless of whatever else I'm doing. Atlas Shrugged is one such  book. Reading it never fails to remind me of the potency of a single  individual - in that way it's better than any drug. Further, detractors  aside, there's something new in it every time. As each phase of my life  passes on to the next, the themes explored in the book gain new relevance  and poignancy.<br />Granted the book is too long. Rand's chief fault as a  novelist is that she often goes on making her case long after the point is  clear. But this amounts to a quibble beside the sheer magnificence of the  epic she's constructed.<br />Whether or likes Rand or not one cannot ignore  her, as the review thread makes clear. Her admirers need no persuasion -  but her detractors must find a way to get 'round what she has to say. It's  a pity most choose merely to hurl insults instead of engaging the text.  Perhaps it strikes to close to home. It certainly does for me: One of the  reasons I keep re-reading it is to improve my ability to live up to it, a  difficult task indeed.	1999-11-25
US	51346159	RP5QPQQZUTTCN	0895262932	618801851	Facts, Not Fear: Teaching Children About the Environment	Books	4	18	37	N	N	Essential Reading for Parents	Our children are being force-fed an amazing amount of environmental claptrap in school. This book is the antidote for parents who want to make sure their children learn critical thinking instead of merely allowing them  to be indoctrinated. The book includes crucial data and exercises for  parents to get involved in their childrens' education.	1999-11-25
US	51346159	R20ZCGWNL3TG9T	0684840057	505830594	Radical Son: A Generational Odyssey	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Essential Reading for Anyone Interested in American Politics	A must read for anyone who wants to truly understand that motivations - and hence the agenda - of the American Left. This book from a former insider will shatter the scales of dogmatic slumber covering any thinking  person's eyes.	1999-11-22
