US	51359947	R265OCQ9G4UERU	0762736704	773888599	Too Much Tuscan Sun: Confessions Of A Chianti Tour Guide	Books	4	12	14	N	N	A real Chianti native shares his world....	As someone who married (another American) in Firenze (Florence) and has toured Tuscany many times - Dario Castagno has done a lovely job of looking at a year in the life of a Tuscan tour guide.<br /><br />His descriptions of his tourists are very amusing and, sorry to tell the previous (very up-tight) reviewers, ACCURATE!  As an American who lives and works overseas - the Americans that Dario describes - the 'normal' ones, the 'ghosts', the \\"culture vultures' and the 'babs' (oh! the \\"babs\\", I laughed until I cried!) are incredibly spot on.  And these categories of American tourists are EVERYWHERE - not just in Italy!<br /><br />More importantly, Castagno does a wonderful job of weaving the descriptions of the Tuscan countryside and activity during the course of a year.  He skillfully expresses the joys and riches of the Tuscan foods and drinks.  (And any tourist who spends two weeks in Tuscany drinking diet coke should have stayed at home)  He also gives the reader one of the best primers on the Palio that I have ever read (and Robert Rodi's little window into Dario's Palio world in the penultimate chapter is sweet!).<br /><br />This is a book primarily for the Americans in Dario's 'normal' category - who don't take themselves too seriously, who have been to Tuscany and enjoyed its food, wines, art, history, and gorgeous countrysides, and who have met some of those other (embarrassingly \\"American\\") Americans - all over the world and can appreciate Dario's amusement and sometime (warranted) frustrations.<br /><br />A wonderful book, I have already recommended it to everyone I know who has been to Tuscany or who is going.  I wonder if Dario now has way more business than he could possibly handle or need!!	2005-08-31
US	51359947	R2LHBH7NCT53RV	0743418263	452670847	Music & Silence	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A stirring fairy tale of old...	This is a wonderful historical novel set in the early 1600s in Denmark.  King Christian IV is a decent king (as a result of his boyhood) with growing concerns (perhaps somewhat paranoid) about the financial state of his kingdom.  He lives with his ghastly adulterous wife Kristen, and retreats from his daily miseries in his chamber music. The musicians he has are the finest in Europe and they must play for him at will from the unheated basement beneath his sitting room.  Enter Peter Claire, an English lute player of fine repute and a beautiful face. Peter falls in love with Emilia, the adulterous queen's lovely young hand-maiden - but the evil queen works to destroy this love (probably mostly because it so real that she envies it).<br /><br />The tales of the various personalities in this novel are expertly woven and while there is hate and destruction, there is also kindness, true love and some sweet (albeit late) revenge.  The reviewer who wrote that this was the stuff of fairy tales has it right. Although this is a fairy tale, it is so well written that the reader can hear the sweet calm of the chamber players' music, can smell the virgin forests in which King Christian and his dear boyhood friend, Bror learn about life and loyalty, and can rejoice in the few moments of true passion in this novel.  A wonderful tale of old, very well written, with an excellent story	2002-02-05
US	51359947	R18YYW79N08U49	0380730138	979924066	Vinegar Hill (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Another novel set with much too little kindness...	Great name for the home into which Ellen Grier is forced to move after her husband James is laid off.  James' childhood home is not a bad structure but its inhabitants include her miserable, nasty father-in-law (around whom James' character withers) and an insipid, angry, spoiled mother-in-law.  Ellen is considered James' `mistake' by at least her mother-in-law - and Mary-Margaret does what she can to make sure that Ellen is clear on the point.<br />Although some reviews call this a \\"portrait of the Midwest's dark side\\", I might argue that these characters might be found in any states in any sized town.  Granted, the location of Vinegar Hill (rural Illinois) adds to Ellen's inability to escape her horrible life.  And while late in the novel, Ellen makes a discovery about James' mother that helps her to better understand where the woman is coming from, this does not lift the feeling of despair that Ellen is suffers.<br /><br />Again we are faced with a novel in which people are cruel to each other, unfeeling and malicious - and this within a family.  Again a woman who suffers, in fact suffocates for her selflessness.  A couple of men, father and son, who thoroughly disregard what their wives so desperately need.  And another novel set with very little kindness.  Are there so many people like this out there in the world?	2002-02-05
US	51359947	R154E6A7FJG7J7	0786881623	983915079	Moving Violations: War Zones, Wheelchairs, and Declarations of Independence	Books	5	8	8	N	N	One of the best autobiographies I've ever read...	This is one of the best autobiographies I've ever read.  Hockenberry, a former NPR correspondent, opens his book with a chapter about hiking on donkey-back up into the inhospitable mountains where the Kurds fled after the Gulf War.  This passage would have been extraordinary anyway, except that Hockenberry is a paraplegic (having been injured in an auto accident when he was 19).  The book spans the period of time from the debilitating accident to his days at NPR.<br /><br />I am not close to anyone who is disabled and was completely unaware of the sorts of subtle discrimination goes on between the walking/seeing/hearing world and those who are unable to do those things.  Oddly (or not!) Hockenberry found that it was when he was outside the US that he felt most natural and most normal.  That people throughout the Middle East didn't view him with pity or a questioned eye.  Ignorant Americans, on the other hand spent a good deal of time asking him questions like, \\"So, did you ever consider suicide?\\" As though death would have made him feel better about not being able to walk!<br /><br />What made this book so important and powerful for me was not that this man had wheeled through Beirut in his wheelchair or had wheeled through Israeli roadblocks out of Gaza in 1987, but that he is able to view the moments of his life not as a `crip' (as he calls it) but as a human being learning about and coping with himself (as we ALL have to do, whether we can walk or not!).  He does not disregard his disability but instead of seeing it as such sees it more as an inconvenience with which he has learned to live just fine, thank you very much.<br />And he writes with such clarity and at times, such humor, that a reader is compelled to laugh and grow with him, in addition to being made more aware in a subtle manner of what kinds of obstacles he faces.  I must add that there is a chapter involving an old girlfriend in Chicago that is worth the price of the book alone. This book is a must read.read.	2002-02-05
US	51359947	R1B03A86BKCFXS	0385492677	78406902	The Accidental Buddhist: Mindfulness, Enlightenment, and Sitting Still, American Style	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Learn about American Buddhism - the 'lite' way...	Dinty Moore (doesn't this guy make beef stew?) is a young middle-aged Irish-American Catholic who, in a very readable and humorous manner, outlines his journey into the world of Buddhism, most specifically American Buddhism.  Although the tale is a bit self-absorbed at times, this book provides the reader with some excellent instruction in a religion that most American are rather ignorant of.  What Moore seems to run up against much of the time is that he can't seem to quite locate the path to `true wisdom'.  In a culture like the American one, full of hyper-commercialism, and an expansive sense of materialism - it is hard for any American to put this all aside and find simple inner peace - that is, to quiet the chattering monkeys in one's head.<br /><br />Like many people who look to Eastern religions, Moore is seeking to find more meaning in his life... to put in their proper place the information overload, the bombardment of advertising, and mostly the pressures that many Americans feel to hurry, to compete, to be the best, to better their neighbors, to arrive at life, rather than to enjoy it as it comes.  While some reviewers didn't like the humor - I found that Moore's jokes, and humor helped me to see that he wasn't one of those \\"true-believers\\" out there intent on proselytizing or urging me to \\"find my peace\\".  It was a relief to read about someone's honest journey in understanding a religion completely foreign to his own.  If he hadn't found things funny, light, or unreasonable, I don't think it would have felt like an honest piece of writing.  I think this book is an excellent source for those who might be interested in knowing more about Buddhism without the intense rhetoric of an instructional text.	2002-02-05
US	51359947	RZ41EF2QFAL6W	038072975X	892493747	Midnight Champagne (Mysteries & Horror)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Like life, try a little kindness...	Artist April and boyfriend Caleb decide to wed on Valentine's Day at the lodge at which they met ( a former brothel).  April's father Elmer (who really liked her old boyfriend of many years, Barney, and) is in a dead marriage himself and unhappy to be here for the non-Catholic nuptials.  April's grandmother, Hilda, finds a penny every day and we discover that on the days she doesn't, someone dies.  No one gets along, an aunt's ex husband shows up with his pregnant new wife, the children get into mischief and eventually stumble upon the \\"missing penny\\", the ex-boyfriend of the bride shows up thinking (erroneously) that he'd been invited, and most of the family hide their own problems (alcoholism, divorce, bad marriages, etc.).<br /><br />Oddly, as depressing as this sounds (and it is somewhat), it rings very true to life.  Not all families are this messy, but most are - in their own ways.  Life is messy.  History is messy.  Once the snowstorm puts out the lights in the lodge, Ansay's plot becomes a little more mystical and there are allusions of spirits.  In fact, the spirit of one dead woman takes an amusing walk through the strangers' wedding reception.<br /><br />As disjointed as the book seemed, the writing is excellent as the characters seem very real.  The message, although a very subtle one - seems to be that one of the most important characteristics that humans need to be aware of in any relationship (husband-wife, parent-child) is the value of kindness, something that a number of the men (in particular) learned about during the course of the novel.	2002-02-05
US	51359947	R1EST2C8Z6V843	0375410627	177766244	Ava's Man	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A magnificent tribute to a grandfather he never met...	When Rick Bragg started to ask his great aunts and others about his grandfather (who died before his birth), the responses tended to involve tears.  That fact helped to compel Bragg to find out more about this beloved man. Charlie Bundrum, his maternal grandfather, was a Depression roofer, fisherman, moonshine cooker, and father of Bragg's aunts and uncles.  He lived in hard times and yet treated people justly. He was so angered by the constant bullying of a hermit by a group of men that he took the man in (Hootie) and made him part of the family. Such a decent person and backwoods legend was he that when he passed away, lines of vehicles stretched along the road to the cemetery.<br /><br />Successfully raising a large family during the Depression would have been enough to grant the man sainthood status, but Bragg does a magnificent job of outlining the complexities of making ends meet - to the extent that hunger was at the door for many years.  He never denies the reader the opportunity to see his grandfather's faults and yet he never apologizes for them or excuses them away.  He is careful to describe the love Charlie had for his wife and particularly his daughters without making it ever maudlin or treacle-y.  He does his grandfather a great justice by having done his best research and found out, to the heart, what the man was like.  It is always a shame to lose a grandfather before you have a chance to know and love him - but Rick Bragg has done a great job of finding, knowing and loving his.	2002-02-05
US	51359947	R3J0Q30MXJ4EZV	0156010887	380719465	The Blue Bedspread	Books	2	11	12	N	N	A sad and disturbing little book...	Having read \\"The God of Small Things\\", \\"A Fine Balance\\", and \\"Interpreter of Maladies\\", I felt the urge to continue on the road to better understanding the genre of Indian authors.  This small novel is both disturbing and sad, but is also written in a beautiful manner - almost compelling the reader to continue even though the air of pending shock hovers between the lines.<br /><br />One evening, a middle-aged man gets a phone call from a hospital saying that his sister has dies in childbirth, the child had been arranged for adoption but the adoptive family cannot take the child (a baby girl) until the following day.  The man agrees to take the child for the night and during the course of the night (sleepless for the man) he proceeds to write non-stop to the child, weaving the stories of the family from whom she comes.  As she sleeps and occasionally wakes and cries - lying on a blue bedspread, the stories he scribbles out furiously fall into patterns by person: mother, father, sister, and brother. And they are not particularly lovely tales - in fact, they are full of the painful things that families sometimes do to one another under the guise of \\"love\\".<br /><br />It can be tiring, sometimes, to read book after book in which families and supposed loved ones abuse others, usually the women, of the household.  Although I realize that this is the way of the world - there is a certain exhaustion that comes from reading book in which you spend emotional time wishing that people wouldn't be so damn mean to other people - including their own children. Unlike some other reviewers, I did not find much redemption in the characters, only pain, and a good deal of sadness.	2002-02-05
US	51359947	R2P4RBZL5HN3W1	0375724672	96071634	True History of the Kelly Gang: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great personal defense of the &quot;misunderstood&quot; Ned Kelly.	Not being Australian, I had never heard of the legendary outlaw Ned Kelly.  It doesn't much matter however, since the narrative that Peter Carey set out is a comprehensive one.  Written as though being narrated by Kelly himself, the effects of the old Australian bush English, the descriptions of the whorehouses, the saloons, the devastating poverty, and the disjointed Australian laws of the time, are impressive.<br /><br />Carey comes up on the side of Kelly as his narrative begins in Kelly's meager childhood, shortly before his father dies and his mother (to keep the family fed) embarks on a series of unsuccessful and mean relationships with, among others, a bushranger who takes Kelly in as an `apprentice' of sorts. The 13 chapters are set down as though they are a long letter written by Kelly to his infant daughter (who has escaped to the American West with her mother and Kelly's love, Mary).  We are given the distinct impression that all the young Kelly wanted was to keep his mother safe (and out of prison), and be able to feed himself and his family.  We are to believe that he never killed unless he was forced to and that this outlaw life had been trust upon him and was neither one of his liking nor taking. Frankly, the narrative works quite persuasively and once I finished with the book I had the feeling that perhaps Ned Kelly had indeed drawn the short stick in life and that he had done the best he could under the circumstances	2002-02-05
US	51359947	R274V2JXRUYQPM	0425168700	890485903	Fortune's Daughter	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Another novel about women as 2nd class citizens...	I need to change my genre of fiction at some point because I find that after a number of novels in which the protagonists are treated badly by the men - I get angry and have trouble seeing the value of the whole novel.  This novel tells pieces of the lives of two women, unlike each other in many ways but bound to each other by coincidence. Rae is the young unmarried woman, pregnant by her abusive boyfriend Jessup, and Lila is the aging former fortune-teller who was forced to give up her child (by another useless man, her `married' boyfriend) for adoption years ago and is haunted by it. The two come together when Lila is pushed into reading the tea leaves for Rae - and sees startling similarities in their lives.  The book is really about Lila and her inner monologues, her pains, her love and her loss.<br /><br />The writing in this novel is fine (the 3 stars are for the writing), the plot and interesting one, and the thread of mystical, \\"visions\\", and even the various tragedies, add to the lure of the book.  But as I mentioned earlier, I am tired of reading books in which women are second class citizens, treated badly and of course suffer for it.  Rae's boyfriend has no redeeming qualities, whatsoever and thus it is impossible for a reader with any brain to understand why she continues to seek him out.  Not that we need to read Cinderella tales every day, but there is a good deal of true loneliness in this book, and not enough positive balance to make it worth the read.	2002-02-05
US	51359947	R22LKR6I4RKG6Y	0688177867	127493012	The Book Borrower: A Novel	Books	4	7	9	N	N	What makes a friendship and what makes an &quot;examined life&quot;?	A lovely book (actually a novel inside a novel) in which the reader follows the meeting and then the intertwined lives of two friends, Toby and Deborah.  The two meet in a park when their children are toddlers and Deborah lends Toby (whom she calls Ruben) a book called, Trolley Girl. The book, which takes Ruben years to finally read (she leaves it in the middle when a tragedy occurs) is the autobiography of a self proclaimed anarchist whose little sister was killed during a trolley strike in 1921.<br /><br />Ruben is very taken with Deborah and the first third of the book describes the growth of their friendship as well as the first half of the Trolley Girl that Ruben begins to read. The second third of the book starts ten years later when both women are working as teachers.  The relationship between them becomes more intense but also has more moments when it is strained. Ruben seems, sometimes, to behave without considering the consequences of her behavior.  The last third of the book takes place ten years later and it is during this time that the friendship is struck by tragedy. It is during this time period however, that the two families actually grow closer and Ruben meets Jessie, an elderly artist who, it turns out, we have met before.<br /><br />In a quiet and effective way, Mattison brings the reader to wonderful closure and in the process has skillfully examined what makes a friendship and what also makes an, \\"examined life\\". This book is extremely well crafted and very solid.  I liked this book a good deal and would highly recommend it - particularly to book clubs.	2002-02-05
US	51359947	RRQ4IZJWZ9VBU	0743218035	67925070	The Keepers of Truth: A Novel	Books	4	10	10	N	N	and what a heavy truth it is!...	Written by an Irishman, The Keepers of Truth ostensibly refers to the motley trio, Sam, Ed, and Bill, who run the towns newspaper, The Truth.  This book was a Booker Prize nomination and deserved to be.  The depiction of an unidentified rust belt town in the throes of its own cultural death is handled brilliantly.<br />Our story is narrated by Bill, the newspapers writer  a modern day philosopher who is relegated by necessity to write the dribble of small town papers (obits, lions club meetings, local ball team reports).  Himself a somewhat tragic figure, he is suddenly given new life when an old man people hated goes missing and his son is suspected of the crime.  The police cant find enough to pin the murder on Ronny (the son) but the pursuit of clues engages the whole town. Bill finds himself in the confidences of Ronnys ex-fianc&eacute;e, and finds he begins to learn more about what might have really happened.<br /><br />What makes this novel such a powerful one is not the story itself, but the setting in which the story occurs. The town, once a center of industry is now half-dead, full of white trash, strip malls, and too many alcoholics.  In the degeneration of this culture, violence, anger, and desperation have reared their ugly heads and the negative small town culture reigns (everyone knows or pretends to know everyone elses private business).<br />I found this not just an interesting murder mystery but also a sociological perspective on the cultural death of America.  A country that is becoming more desperate, more shallow, less feeling, and less kind with every gun license, every hate crime, and every desperate act by a people who have lost themselves	2002-02-05
US	51359947	R3UDA1Y5J8BV8L	0060958332	568183119	The Language Instinct: How the Mind Creates Language (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	18	21	N	N	We possess language and it possesses us!!	A good friend with whom I was discussing language urged me to read this book.  I must say that I was captivated from the first sentence.  Other reviewers have mentioned that this is not a book for everyone and I agree - much of the science and terminology of the linguists is beyond me - and I consider myself fairly well educated.  When Pinker steers clear from mucking up the story with in-depth explanations of word placements and whatnot - it is a brilliant treatise on this marvelous \\"instinct\\" -  the ability of human beings to learn and use language.<br />Pinker sets out to view language as a characteristic (like the elephant's trunk) that simply happens to be unique to this species (which is why the \\"sign language using\\" apes in our society are little more than farces).  I think I loved most of all the convincing examples he uses to support his argument.  Whether it was about the deaf children of hearing parents who learn a fluent sign language, or the aphasics, or disproving the Eskimo `hoax' (they don't have 100s of words for snow), or the simple support of a language \\"gene\\" - and a description of what he calls, \\"mentalese\\" - I was hooked.  Although I suspect that this book was meant to be used as a college textbook - the fact remains that if you are interested in language and the human abilities to learn it, manipulate it, process it, and communicate with it - then this is a wonderful book.	2001-11-11
US	51359947	RUR6DZZG3AL2J	0684835576	427058758	Good Hair: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	An intimate look at a slice of our society...	I really like books about parts of my own culture and society that I am not privy to.  This book is set among the black urban professionals, and the upper class (snooty) black society on the East Coast of the US. Alice is raised middle class in Newark, and the book begins when she meets Jack (a doctor at Mt. Siani) on a plane and thus begins what might be `the relationship'.  Although this is not a long book, Little does an excellent job of packing a lot of character development and information into an efficient amount of space.  What is particularly striking is the way she is able to produce for the reader exactly how the black class structure in the US is so rigid and what can happen to those who are not tough enough to survive the movement into a different class. In some moments hysterical, and in others, poignant, this is an exceptionally well-written little book and one, I'd hope more non-blacks would read.... As my friend Bob says, \\"can't ever hurt to edu-ma-cate the white folks.\\"	2001-11-11
US	51359947	R2DH8LCQFEFKNV	0060950536	787514702	Taking Charge of Your Fertility: The Definitive Guide to Natural Birth Control and Pregnancy Achievement	Books	5	2	2	N	N	EVERY woman needs to own this book, and know her own body!	A friend who had had some difficulty conceiving her second child found this method very effective - she charted for two months and in the second month got pregnant!  She gave this book to me, and I have eaten it up!  My husband and I have been trying to conceive for four years, with the result being only multiple miscarriages, and now a long time without even conceiving.  We have been diagnosed with \\"unexplained infertility\\" - which hasn't told us anything.  We are expecting to go through IVF this winter - but we are hoping that this book may help us prevent having to go through that very expensive, very invasive procedure.<br />I think the most powerful message in the book is in the title.  No one should know more about a woman's cycles and her fertility than she does!  The book, called \\"the fertility bible\\" by the women on my infertility internet forums, is based on some very simple premises.  A woman should check three things to ensure either effective birth control or to increase her chances for conception: basal body temperatures, cervical fluid and the position of the cervix.  I am in my first month charting and will see whether we are able to conceive this way.  I am told by other women that even if I don't conceive - this is a terrific way to learn about my body.	2001-11-11
US	51359947	R2UAY7HOLD2Q7K	068485614X	569766847	Esperanza's Box of Saints: A Novel	Books	3	9	11	N	N	What a trip! With San Judas Tadeo to assist...	Our funny little tale begins when a young recently widowed mother loses her 12 year old daughter during a routine operation. Esperanza lives with Soledad (both of whom have lost their husbands in the same bus accident) and Esperanza's daughter, Blanca - of course the most beautiful, sweet girl in the village.  After Blanca dies, Esperanza swears to her local priest that San Judas Tadeo has appeared to her on her greasy oven window to let her know that Blanca is not really dead!  Esperanza, much to the chagrin of both her priest and her friend Soledad, take off to `track' down Blanca - whom she believes has been kidnapped (by the doctors who can't be trusted) and forced to be a prostitute.  Her journey takes her north through Mexico, to Tijuana, and even up into Los Angeles where she finds something completely unexpected.  The story is a very fun read and absolutely and completely unbelievable.  Esperanza is helped by people who are not the helping kind, and she is cared for and also very lucky in her escapades.  She meets the strangest characters including pimps, prostitutes, madams, and a very handsome professional wrestler.  Probably the funniest parts of the book are the missives that Esperanza sends back to Father Salvador (her local priest) who seems beside himself with her wanderings and in constant fear that something horrible will befall her.  Again, this is not literature by any stretch - but if you enjoy the Latin spirits in your writing and you want a light-hearted book for a change - this one is a good one to choose.	2001-11-11
US	51359947	R3PRBU00XXL3N9	0446525502	717558254	The Rescue	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Easy to take, predictable, modern day fairy tale...	So this is what you have to produce to reach American audiences -very interesting!  I started this at 9pm one night and was finished by 2am!  This is a lovely little love story that has apparently made it big on the Times bestseller list.  Denise Holton is a working mom who has devoted her life to her 4 year-old, Kyle, who has an auditory processing problem (he's bright but has trouble speaking and processing what he hears).  Taylor McAden is a contractor and a risk-taking volunteer fireman who comes across Denise in a car accident and is part of the team who fan out in the woods to find the missing boy, Kyle.  Taylor, like many people, has some ghosts that need exorcising before he can live a normal life but he finds himself fast falling in love with Denise - who may be like all the others, or may be able to help him.  It's a nice story and the progression of Denise's and Taylor's relationship is meticulously and thoughtfully developed.  This isn't great literature - it's more the sort of genre that occurs when Barbara Cartland meets Charles Frazier (\\"On Cold Mountain\\"), but it's an easy to take, predictable, modern-day fairy tale that will make most people feel all warm and fuzzy after they've finished it.	2001-11-11
US	51359947	R1FL3EH881BGS0	037570504X	22478117	Breath, Eyes, Memory (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Brutal, beautiful... bittersweet...	What a startling book!  12-year-old Sophie leaves her dear Aunt Atie and her grandmother in a miserable, impoverished macout-run Haiti, at the bidding of her mother who has `made it' in the US (New York metro area).  Her life in the US with her mother is not a bed of roses and as she learns more about her mother's terrible past and is, herself `damaged' by it, the book ripens into a powerful, heartbreaking tale.  The young author has managed to portray the sociologically abused Haitian woman as survivors and her tale of love and loss and the bonding of these generations of women is overwhelming.  Largely a matter of her background, the author also does a splendid job of transmitting, through her words, the feel, tastes, smells, and even the fear of both her Haitian and her American settings.  A tragic, beautiful book - another testament to the resilience of humankind.	2001-11-11
US	51359947	R3A6A3U59QWB5C	0609806955	767801560	Who Cooked the Last Supper: The Women's History of the World	Books	4	25	29	N	N	What a Woman! (They ALL are!)	A book club selection by my local group, I ripped though this book in one sitting.  It was a stunning, informative, lively look at women in our history instead of the usual men's tale (or from a male perspective).  I was engrossed by so many of the arguments made that suggested women where there and accomplishing great things even though the history books ignored them most completely throughout the ages.  Starting from the very beginning of time it was the women who were giving birth, raising children, gathering foods and preparing meals, and keeping the shelter - while the men `occasionally' caught something.. humpth!  Unfortunately much of women's history has been permanently destroyed so except for the litany of child rape and other horrors perpetuated against women over the last couple of millennium, very little remains for Miles to use in support of her `history'.  Some of the more negative history gets a little tiring at points (how much abuse and suffering do we need to read about - \\"We know! We know!\\")  In spite of the dearth of positive material, Miles manages to do her best to outline the very important contributions made by women in every aspect of our culture - much of it at a very fundamental and important level.  My only regret is that she doesn't mention the discovery of the Gnostic gospels and their portrayal of women as teachers and preachers and equals during the time of Christ - if only the men at the head of the church patriarcy had not been so threatened by Thomas' and Philip's (and others') writings they would have been read and changed the history for women over the last 2000 years, ah well...	2001-11-11
US	51359947	R34S31C9V13326	0446672211	17564972	Where the Heart Is	Books	2	1	5	N	N	Is this America?	When (who named this girl?) Novalee Nation is abandoned by her white trash boyfriend in a Walmart in Sequoyah, Oklahoma (with $7.77 in her pocket, aged seventeen and seven months pregnant) in the opening chapter of this book - you almost don't want to keep reading.  But Novalee, who hides out in the Walmart for weeks, manages to make connections to a couple of Sequoyah townspeople including a doddering old woman named Sister Thelma Husband, a sweet elderly black photographer named Moses, and a little Native American boy named Benny Goodluck (who gives her a sapling tree).  Novalee has her baby in the Walmart (and names the baby Americus, I kid you not) and receives a gift of kindness from none other than Sam Walton himself.  Americus Nation given refuge by Walmart - that kind of symbolism smacks you right in the face.Even though Novalee's situation improves greatly through the kindness of others and her own fortitude - she manages to hold a steady job, and eventually builds a safe home for herself and her child.  The world that Letts describes is generally pretty ignorant and that was a little demoralizing to me (are we really that stupid as a general population?).  The redeeming quality of this book is that it demonstrates that an education is worth more than ignorance and that having a hobby/interests (like the photography) and reading can change your life.  Moral of the story?  White trashiness can be overcome if you're a good Christian and are kind to others?  Is this America?  I was disheartened.	2001-11-11
US	51359947	R1O1WZTUASDI7R	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A surprisingly wonderful tale of women!	I had read everything else that the airport bookstore had to offer and so finally broke down and bought The Red Tent. What a delicious, wonderful, historical, emotional and passionate novel!! The reader is introduced to the many wives of Jacob (Book of Genesis) and their proficiencies and charms each by Dinah, Jacob's only daughter (and as the only woman in her generation - left to continue to hand down the tales, traditions, foods, etc.).  The Red Tent is the place where women go to `be women\\": pass their menstruations, give birth, prepare for marriage, and when they are ill.  This wonderful place becomes the \\"women's room\\", the place for the younger ones to learn and the older ones to teach, and place to go if one is ill and need of comfort.<br /><br />The first half of this book, filled with the sweet remembrances of the women in the red tent; their stories and their skills (midwifery, cooking, gardening, herbs, sewing) is the dearest - it is amongst these mothers that Dinah learns to become a midwife.  There is something powerful and beautiful about women celebrating what they are all about.  The novel changes somewhat when Dinah tells us the tale of Jacob's family's move into the land of Canaan. What happens to Dinah in this book is more satisfying that as it is suggested in the bible.  While not a happy event, it is more satisfying, obviously, to believe that Dinah experienced true love.  This is a wonderful novel about the value and continuity of the women in history and one I am sorry I waited so long to pick up and read.	2001-10-20
US	51359947	RD0KGRCPNZXTS	0684841185	466385534	Death du Jour	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Great mysteries, fascinating pathology...	This is Dr. Tempe Brennan's second appearance and of the three Riechs books, I've read I liked it the best.  The book opens with Tempe (in the cold Canadian fall) digging up the bones of a 100-year old nun who is being considered for sainthood (for her work during a smallpox epidemic). At the same time she is called out to a farm where a horrible explosion/fire has left a number of bodies to be identified.  Finally, a young, nervous student disappears from a local university (suspected of joining a cult).  As Tempe works away, her revelations send her home to North Carolina where more bodies are found and she begins to suspect that they are linked to the Canadian bodies.  We learn more about Tempe in this novel as we are introduced to her sister Harriet, and she (Tempe) picks up a love interest (which of course, always makes our characters more interesting) - one that doesn't seem likely until it happens.  The Dr. Brennan books are good solid murder mysteries with what seems to be the right balance of gore, mystery, and themes of societal relevance (cults, in this case).  Reichs, as a forensic anthropologist herself, is very skilled in her pathologic descriptions.  As one reviewer says so well, she, \\"she uses the science of death to reveal rather than to shock or startle.\\"  And this makes for outstanding reading.	2001-10-20
US	51359947	R3UYKY4G4K5Q02	0375724370	924994086	Anil's Ghost: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Hauntingly crafted, Ondaatje's a 1st class poet	Whenever you read anything by Michael Ondaatje you must remember that he is first and foremost a magnificent poet.  The prose of Anil's Ghost is like satin sheets, delicate, smooth, sensual, sensuous, and hot and cool all at once.  Read this book with a glass of wine and as much total quiet as you can find.  Our protagonist is Anil Tissera, a Sri Lankan who has been in the US for 15 years studying and working as a forensic anthropologist.  As part of an international human rights mission, she is called back to Sri Lanka to look further into murders suspected ordered by the government.  This takes place in Sri Lanka during what, in South America, they called the dirty wars.  The government was suspect, villagers disappeared regularly in the night never to be heard from again, and peasants were tortured to give up names of innocents to save their own necks.<br /><br />Anil's discoveries are not so much the focus of the story, although we suspect what she suspects early on in the novel - when she finds recently deceased bodies in an ancient burial ground.  What make this novel so captivating is that we are with her as she falls deeper and deeper into her need to identify \\"Sailor\\" - the body they (she is teamed with a Sri Lankan anthropologist, Sarath, who is tied to the political element somehow) are working on.  In real life cases like this the desperation of the protagonists, in light of the overwhelming pressures against them by the government or other powerful entities, can be oppressive or maddening.  In this novel, that quiet desperation is painted beautifully by Ondaatje's imagery, his careful brush strokes describing Anil's most inner feelings (she is at home, experiencing first hand the evil that her own people are doing to one and other).  Funny, one reviewer writes, \\"...she finds herself caught in a web of politics, paranoia, and tragedy.\\"  But that makes it sound like a police mystery or an old cold war spy novel and it is eons away from these. This hauntingly crafted novel is a sheer pleasure to read, in spite of the heavy topics.  I will read anything by Ondaatje.ly crafted novel is a sheer pleasure to read, in spite of the heavy topics.  I will read anything by Ondaatje.	2001-10-20
US	51359947	R3G5BI50INXBA6	0553208845	36215520	Siddhartha	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Self-discovery and wisdom... an ageless book.	As a substitute teacher for a class of sophomores, I needed to spend an evening reading the classic, Siddhartha.  Although I had read it years ago in my own tenth grade English class, I found it much more meaningful as an adult.  Siddhartha's journey is actually one of any life, anyone who, in his/her life comes to grips with the fact that wisdom cannot be taught.  That one's inner peace is brought about from within, not from outside.  Siddhartha leaves his father's house (where he has been a beloved son) and takes off with his dear friend, Govinda, to live with the Samanas - in search of the great Gotama (the Buddha).  This is only the first step in his life's journey to acquire wisdom (or `truth').  Along the way he experiences material wealth, carnal love, great impoverishment, and great self-denial (suffering), and even has a child by a lover.  None of these events satisfies his yearning however.  At the brink of suicide, he settles with a poor old man who ferries people across a river, Vasudeva.  It is there that he comes to terms with what wisdom and truth are all about.  He listens to the river and to the occasional utterings of Vasudeva (who has seen a great much in this world).  It is a truly universal story and one that persons of all ages and religions and backgrounds should read and appreciate for it's clarity about self-discovery.	2001-10-20
US	51359947	R6FC5KU1DWHEY	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Had potential, well crafted, too long	This was a wild book, unlike others I've read.  We have two primary protagonists, Jewish cousins, Sam Klayman and Joe Kavalier.  Sam is awoken one night by his mother and told to shove over in bed to accommodate his cousin Joe who has made an incredible escape from the Nazis in Prague (we are pre-WWII).  Joe is an inspired artist (and has learned escapist art as well back in Czechoslovakia) and Sam is a fantastical story-teller and together they march into the world of comic books.  It is through these comic (super-hero) tales (their primary protagonist is, The Escapist) that they wage their own war on Hitler.  The first half of the book is truly a work of art - emotive writing and a fascinating tale.  The second half of the book opens with Joe &quot;disappearing&quot; - leaving Rosa and Sam. I liked the ending but thought there were about 200 superfluous pages in this 636-page tome.  If you have the time, enjoy the writing.  Chabon is an artful author with an inspired sense of humor.	2001-10-20
US	51359947	RXMFMVJ0FPD1Z	0671028367	666165371	Deadly Decisions (Temperance Brennan, No. 3)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Believeable protagonist, fascinating pathology...	In the third of the Dr. Brennan mysteries, we are introduced to the world of biker gangs and wars in addition to the usual menu of gruesome forensic research.  Dr. Tempe Brennan works in either North Carolina or Montreal, depending on the mystery and sometimes she works, like the case of this novel, in both.<br /><br />We were introduced to Tempe's forensic skills in those discussions of pathology in past novels, but she does her teachers proud once again in this story. She is brought to a case by the death of a 9 year-old girl in the streets of Montreal, an innocent victim of the crossfire in a biker war.  Tempe finds a link between a buried body (sans a head) and a biker gangland murder in Montreal, a journalist of questionable motives, and a shady past in North Carolina.  Coincidentally, Tempe's sometimes troubled nephew, Kit, comes for a visit at the same time that Dr. Brennan is really starting to get rolling on her discoveries.  Actually, Kit's fascination with the whole biker gang environment helps Tempe solve her mystery, but not before Kit puts her and himself in some serious danger.<br />I have been so impressed with the author who manages to have kept up a very satisfactory protagonist, timely and appropriate settings, and even believeable family members!  This mystery is as good as the first two... and the tangled web we read all comes to light in the end but not without the opportunity to hold our breath and meet some really scummy characters.  I will continue to read the Tempe Brennan mysteries as they are informative, thrilling, gripping, and not too gorey.	2001-10-20
US	51359947	R3IS5D31SAQ664	0156010941	332872233	The Lost Legends of New Jersey	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent coming-of-age story about understanding love...	This is a lovely little coming-of-age novel set in Livingston, New Jersey (not far from where I grew up!) in the 1980s.  Anthony Rubin is our protagonist and is learning how to survive his father's infidelities (with his best friend's mother), his mother's fleeing then re-establishment as a single in Florida, his first love (the sexy Juliette who lives next door and whose father is reputedly in the mob), and his somewhat unexpected success as a high school hockey player.  Anthony's voice is so authentic that it is hard to believe this was not written by a teen-aged boy, in fact, at one point early on I suddenly wondered whether this was really an autobiography.  The author drops us fully into Anthony's world and we experience what he does... the midnight bike ride with his older sister Dani, the night they all got lost leaving the Meadowlands, the afternoon his mother broke all the windows in his best friend's house, the experiences of the group of young teens at the Jersey shore, and listening to an anorectic roommate give up while in the hospital for knee surgery.  Probably the most powerful moment in what is an otherwise very moving tale, is when Max (Anthony's grandfather) falls in love and decides to remarry in his eighties.  Everyone in the book is unknowingly looking for his/her \\"b'shert\\" (a Yiddish word basically meaning the love of one's life) and that is what makes the connection for any reader.  It's all any of us are looking for.	2001-10-20
US	51359947	R1MYQDN8S7R4FD	0553280414	586746552	A Separate Peace	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Still reaching teens... with universal themes	As standard fare for most high school sophomores, this tale of personal growth and the loss of innocence is still taught in high schools around the world because it reaches the reader.  Initially the girls in my international classroom wondered what value yet another angst-ridden tale of a bunch of white boys could possible mean for them, and I understood their skepticism.  Phineas and Gene represent kids that exist in our lives - the easygoing athlete, the slightly uptight student.  That Gene, our narrator, should have the strength and will to return to the place where his own innocence was, essentially lost forever, is to demonstrate that coming to terms with these events in our lives in the right and healthy thing to do.  Set in a New England boarding school for boys during WW II, this is a book about exploring the competing sides of one's personality, learning how to admit (own) guilt, the complexities of friendship, the solution of life's inner battles being the acceptance (and even love) of others, and even the broader contrast between positive and negative elements in society (the war is a very appropriate setting here). Conflict is always present in our lives whether we are white boys at a private school in New England or a teenaged Thai girl in an international school in Dhaka.  This is a good book for teens to read in their own search for the acceptance of that ubiquitous `conflict' and how to manage it.	2001-10-20
US	51359947	R1BC0QY1HQ4KPH	0060959037	822422067	Prodigal Summer: A Novel	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Her BEST yet!  Wonderfully woven fabric...	This book will go on my must read list.  I have already given it out to numerous friends, and alerted others to its delights.  Kingsolver, who is a favorite author anyway, has written a well-researched and loving tale about the lives of three people in an Appalachian community.  She weaves the stories together in overlaying chapters: the \\"Predator\\" chapters follow Deanna, a park ranger in the mountains who is tracking coyotes; the \\"Moth Love\\" chapters follow Lusa, a half Jewish/half Palestinian entomologist who has married a farm boy; and the \\"Old Chestnuts\\" chapters follow Garnett, an eighty-year-old scientist/farmer who is still trying to bring back the American Chestnut tree, and is in constant conflict with his next door neighbor, Nanny Rawley (an aging feminist organic farmer).<br /><br />The author manages to bring together varying points of view about the community, the ecological fabric (that touches all of them and eventually brings families, lovers and neighbors together) and about sheer personal growth and development.  Her research is so complete that I found I learned a great deal more about how fragile our natural world is and how much we as human beings have to do with that fragility and its continued survival.  Her characters are believable, and they struggle with their hearts in a variety of ways - all eventually reaching for what is right for them.  I suppose that was what I so loved about the book.  So many people make life decisions to suit others or per what others might like or think.  Kingsolver's characters tackle the life questions and finally decide what is best for them, which is almost always the hardest route to take. This was a sexy, funny, tender, and all around tremendously rich and satisfying novel.	2001-10-20
US	51359947	R3I7HRKNDHDGJT	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The American &quot;Nightmare&quot; is no Dream...	This realistic story of the American dream gone awry opens with Iranian-American Colonel Behrani quitting his job on the highway cleaning crew and deciding to buy a house as an investment.  He finds that houses that have been seized by the government for a variety of reasons are for sale at public auction for very good prices.  He needs to buy the house and resell it to make money in order to keep up appearances for his family and for his standing in the stuffy exiled Iranian community in which they live.  On the other side of the wrangling is Kathy Nicolo, a recovering drug user (and alcoholic) housecleaner whose husband has left her and who for months has been ignoring the notices from the county.  Early in the book she is evicted by a team of police officers that includes deputy Lester Burdon who helps her find legal counsel and a place to stay and then continues his involvement with her.<br /><br />The intensity of the anger, fear and to a great extent confusion that riles up these three protagonists is palpable.  The miscommunications become greater and more horribly effective in turning what should have been a legal fight into a personal one.  It is true that Kathy should not have been evicted, but it is also true that the Colonel purchased the house rightfully and legally.  This is a somewhat fascinating book because neither one of the principal characters is particularly likeable but they are so human in their realities that any reader can appreciate what they are experiencing.  My only issue with the whole plot and storyline was the believability of the character of the sheriff.  As the struggle for the house becomes more dramatic, the reader is drawn into what becomes a bit of a thriller to a very powerful climax.  As someone who lives overseas and can see how immigrants are really treated in our country - this book should be a powerful eye-opener for Americans.	2001-10-20
US	51359947	R37EZYZNH6K128	060960841X	1366740	A Fortune-Teller Told Me: Earthbound Travels in the Far East	Books	4	13	15	N	N	The real Asia... myths, superstitions, magic!	As this is my first post living in Asia, I found this book to be a delightful introduction to some of what this region is \\"really\\" like. Tiziano Terzani is an Italian-born journalist for the German Der Spiegel and in 1976 while in Hong Kong, is taken to a fortune-teller (almost as a joke) who told him that if he flew in 1993 it could prove fatal.  Not being one for superstitions, he nonetheless decided to spend the whole of 1993 traveling Asia in every way save air (train, bus, car, on foot, and elephant!).  He not only does this, but he dedicates his writing and research during that year (1993) to finding the \\"truest\\" fortuneteller in any country who will accurately tell his fortune (and divine his past correctly).  His work puts him conveniently in a number of countries where he is able to visit seers, clairvoyants, astrologists, soothsayers, and psychics.  He covers the elections in Burma, a road opening in Thailand and China, and even manages to take a trans-Siberian trip from Cambodia and Vietnam through China and Mongolia and off through Russia.<br /><br />Most people, in most countries, are somewhat fascinated by the accuracy of a fortune-teller - and this is the hook that Terzani uses to draw us in.  Will the prophesy prove true (a plane of journalists does go down in Asia at one point early in the given year (a plane he would have been on) but no one dies.)?  How accurate are fortune-tellers?  The details of his many visits to these many people, and his descriptions of the peoples and places he is seeing as a result of not flying are all fascinating.  One of the themes he continually returns to is the modernization of Asia and to some extent how that pains him  (AIDS in Burma, cold-hearted money mongers in China, completely non-spiritual Mongolians).  He is not only humored by the superstitions of the region, but in some places he is somewhat grateful that these beliefs are still taken seriously.  He is unhappiest in places where the modern world has pushed the relevance of some of these old shamans out of existence.  It was absolutely wonderful writing and was so very Asian that I found I had a renewed interest in traveling to many of these places.the relevance of some of these old shamans out of existence.  It was absolutely wonderful writing and was so very Asian that I found I had a renewed interest in traveling to many of these places.	2001-10-20
US	51359947	R3F354CBX09OQR	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	2	16	20	N	N	What a disappointment!! and for the Booker???	Oh, I was so disappointed in this book!  A Booker prize spent on a wonderful author's least successful novel (where were they handing out prizes when she wrote \\"Alias Grace\\"?).  The story opens and is narrated by the aging Canadian Iris Griffin Chase who has had a less than positive life experience.  She and her younger sister, Laura, are raised in money but their father loses much of it in the Great Depression.  Iris is married off to a young wealthy associate of the father's, and Laura - who is ethereal and dreamy and weirdly naïve eventually lives with them briefly.<br />Laura drives a car off a bridge to her death at a young age (early in the book), and Iris, as she is recounting the story of her, basically, is suddenly muted by the interjection of an odd science fiction sort of novel (called \\"The Blind Assassin\\") in which two lovers (we never know their names, but later we are supposed to guess who they represent) meet in basements, attics and cheap hotel rooms and tell each other the strange story of the Blind Assassin.  So we bounce back and forth between Iris's narration of the mysteries of her life including her sister's suspicious death, her husband's suspicious death her daughter's estrangement from her, etc) and these bizarre trysts of story-telling.<br /><br />This book was incredibly long and ended in a completely unsatisfactory manner - almost as if Atwood suddenly realized how the story was droning on and on and decided it was time to end it.  I did not have the same feelings of suspense during the reading of this book that some other have, and the ending did not surprise me.  While I appreciated the writing (Atwood is, indeed, a marvelous writer), the character of Iris was irritating and weak and Laura's character was not given enough handling and was therefore not as captivating as she might have been.  I kept wishing to `get into' the Blind Assassin sections of the book but found that even that story line continued page after page to go absolutely nowhere.  Ugh!  Come on, Margaret, give us another \\"Alias Grace\\"!owhere.  Ugh!  Come on, Margaret, give us another \\"Alias Grace\\"!	2001-10-20
US	51359947	RPYG5B6GMDG52	0743215052	769417678	The Constant Gardener: A Novel	Books	3	6	7	N	N	He has let the cold war go quite successfully....	The constant gardener in this tale is Justin Quayle, an unproductive mid-aged British diplomat in Kenya whose beautiful, activist, younger wife has been brutally murdered.  Justin, whose gardening supposes a general state of denial or complacency, is, for once in his life, decisive in his international search for the answers to her murder.  Tessa, his wife, it turns out has been meddling a little too closely to the ethically questionable practices of a pharmaceutical conglomerate (she has been gathering evidence that they are forcing a potentially harmful TB drug on the impoverished).  She also, in her activism, has acquired an associate, a native doctor, who dies with her but whose body is mysteriously missing from the site.<br /><br />Some of the best writing is also in the development of the diplomatic corps characters, like Sandy Woodward, Quayle's superior.  While the `government' should ostensibly assist Quayle in his search for truth, we know it does not, in any way.  In fact, it is maddening to the reader that Quayle (who is a career diplomat, after all) should not realize this until late in the novel.  The mystery isn't so much in the identification of the murderers as it is the reason for Tessa's death: what prompted it, what she knew, who else knew, etc..  Although it must have been tough to let the old Cold War go, Le Carre has successfully, I believe, maintained his ability to write complicated plots about believable people in believable trouble.	2001-10-20
US	51359947	R1Z0BDK3BNF152	0156010941	332872233	The Lost Legends of New Jersey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent coming-of-age story about understanding love...	This is a lovely little coming-of-age novel set in Livingston, New Jersey (not far from where I grew up!) in the 1980s.  Anthony Rubin is our protagonist and is learning how to survive his father's infidelities (with his best friend's mother), his mother's flight then re-establishment as a single in Florida, his first love (the sexy Juliette who lives next door and whose father is reputedly in the mob), and his somewhat unexpected success as a high school hockey player.  Anthony's voice is so authentic that it is hard to believe this was not written by a teen-aged boy, in fact, at one point early on I suddenly wondered whether this was really an autobiography.<br />The author drops us fully into Anthony's world and we experience what he does... the midnight bike ride with his older sister Dani, the night they all got lost leaving the Meadowlands, the afternoon his mother broke all the windows in his best friend's house, the experiences of the group of young teens at the Jersey shore, and listening to an anorectic hospital roommate give up (on life).   Probably the most powerful moment in what is an otherwise very moving tale, is when Max (Anthony's grandfather) falls in love and decides to remarry in his eighties.  Everyone in the book is unknowingly looking for his/her \\"b'shert\\" (a Yiddish word basically meaning the love of one's life) and that is what makes the connection for any reader.  It's all any of us are looking for.	2001-10-17
US	51359947	RMNC8Q15EQTEB	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A surprisingly wonderful tale of women!	I had read everything else that the airport bookstore had to offer and so finally broke down and bought The Red Tent. Was I surprised!  What a delicious, wonderful, historical, emotional and passionate novel!! The reader is introduced to the many wives of Jacob (Book of Genesis) and their proficiencies and charms each by Dinah, Jacob's only daughter (and as the only woman in her generation - left to continue to hand down the tales, traditions, foods, etc.).  The Red Tent is the place where women go to `be women\\": pass their menstruations, give birth, prepare for marriage, and when they are ill.  This wonderful place becomes the \\"women's room\\", the place for the younger ones to learn and the older ones to teach, and place to go if one is ill and need of comfort.<BR> <BR>The first half of this book, filled with the sweet remembrances of the women in the red tent; their stories and their skills (midwifery, cooking, gardening, herbs, sewing) is the dearest - it is amongst these mothers that Dinah learns to become a midwife.  There is something powerful and beautiful about women celebrating what they are all about.  The novel changes somewhat when Dinah tells us the tale of Jacob's family's move into the land of Canaan (to flee the oppressive nature of Laban, the father of Rachel and Leah). Near urban life, Dinah is tempted by the excitement of the city, and the new extended family (Jacob's brother Esau's family).  What happens to Dinah in this book is more satisfying that as it is suggested in the bible. In this tale, she is in love with the Prince Shalem and he with her.  They are to be wed, but in Shakepearan tragedy, Dinah's brothers (believing she has been raped by Shalem) fall upon the city and murder Shalem and many others.  While not a happy event, it is more satisfying, obviously, to believe that Dinah experienced true love.  She gives birth to a baby boy and flees with Shalem's mother to Egypt where the boy is raised.  In her later years, a much-subdued Dinah eventually stumbles upon her dearest younger brother, Joseph (of technicolor coat fame), she sees her son grown, and she falls in love again.  This is a wonderful novel about the value and continuity of the women in history and one I am sorry I waited so long to pick up and read.	2001-10-17
US	51359947	R3AYIJWFHRL8KG	0060199652	822422067	Prodigal Summer	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Her BEST yet!  Wonderfully woven fabric...	This book will go on my must read list.  I have already given it out to numerous friends, and alerted others to its delights.  Kingsolver, who is a favorite author anyway, has written a well-researched and loving tale about the lives of three people in an Appalachian community.  She weaves the stories together in overlaying chapters: the \\"Predator\\" chapters follow Deanna, a park ranger in the mountains who is tracking coyotes; the \\"Moth Love\\" chapters follow Lusa, a half Jewish/half Palestinian urban entomologist who has married a farm boy; and the \\"Old Chestnuts\\" chapters follow Garnett, an eighty-year-old scientist/farmer who is still trying to bring back the American Chestnut tree, and is in constant conflict with his next door neighbor, Nanny Rawley (an aging feminist organic farmer).<br />The author manages to bring together varying points of view about the community, the ecological fabric (that touches all of them and eventually brings families, lovers and neighbors together) and about sheer personal growth and development.  Her research is so complete that I found I learned a great deal more about how fragile our natural world is and how much we as human beings have to do with that fragility and the continued survival of that world.  Her characters are believable, and they struggle with their hearts in a variety of ways - all eventually reaching for what is right for them.  I suppose that was what I so loved about the book.  So many people make life decisions to suit others or per what others might like or think.  Kingsolver's characters tackle the life questions and finally decide what is best for them, which is almost always the hardest route to take. This was a sexy, funny, tender, and all around tremendously rich and satisfying novel.	2001-10-15
US	51359947	R2HZRZWFO5LQ0G	0679462988	432043116	The Bullfighter Checks Her Makeup: My Encounters with Extraordinary People	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A wonderful examination of the human condition!	Subtitled, \\"my encounters with extraordinary people\\", this book is a treasure trove of tales about some of the most interesting (and to a great extent ordinary) people you'll ever read about and most of them are people you'd never know.  Susan Orlean is a regular writer for The New Yorker and is one of their very finest.  Her last book, &quot;The Orchid Thief&quot; was at once captivating and bizarre.  &quot;The Bullfighter Checks her Makeup,&quot; is a compilation of a number of her pieces from the New Yorker in which she details the comings and goings of very ordinary every day people... and manages to make them all seem extraordinary.  The best part of Orlean's writing is that she keeps the space intact between herself as the observer and chronicler of these lives and the individuality expressed in each of the life stories these people have.  Although the expression goes, \\"Life is stranger than fiction,\\" I would argue that Susan Orlean demonstrates that \\"Life is funnier than fiction\\", too!  From the couple who breed show dogs to an &quot;average&quot; ten year old boy, to the female bullfighter (not usually a woman's sport) to the African king driving taxis in New York, everyone who is profiled in this book is in their own way funny, interesting, entertaining, and some, to a tiny extent sad.  We meet pre-teen surfer girls and the middle-aged women who were once \\"The Shaggs\\". We read about the guy who invented \\"the Big Chair\\" (you know that chair in which people are photographed at county fairs?) and a sweet group of southern gospel singers.  No one is too bizarre, too ordinary, or too unlikely.  Orlean makes it clear that we are surrounded every day by extraordinariness - everyone has a story and many of them have great stories.   I loved this book for exposing the wonders of the human condition.	2001-10-13
US	51359947	R1XLWZ5KKP6KTV	0374184054	654533738	Last Things	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Sweet and sad, a lovely tale...	Another bittersweet book about a child in unusual circumstances.  Grace is an eight-year-old girl whose mother, Anna is both a dream (for Grace) and a nightmare (for Anna herself).  The mother and the father, Robert seem an interesting pair, she creative, bold, irrational and he patient, mainstream and rational.  This is the tale of Anna who eventually goes mad, of Grace who doesn't understand that her mother is out of the norm, and Robert who loves but doesn't understand his wife and who eventually must be the stabilizing force for his daughter.  The story is a sweet one as Grace is introduced to wild scientific, anthropological, linguistic, and mysterious theories by her mother (and her geeky teenaged babysitter).  In fact, much of what Anna teaches Grace is that science can explain one side of an argument as often as it can explain the other side.  I loved the various scientific puzzles, the imaginary language that Anna makes up for them, and the tales of hyena-men, gazelle-boys, and living dinosaurs.  What is sad about it all is that as Anna's behavior becomes more manic and unstable, it all seems reasonable to Grace (who would not know better) who is blindly loyal to her mother.  The family begins to dissolve when Grace's father begins to focus too intensely on his science (to the neglect of the family) and Anna takes Grace on a road-trip.  The fact that this novel is written in Grace's voice is beautiful and is a hard feat that the author accomplishes admirably.  The fact that the author manages to weave in themes of (animal) extinction, mental collapse, and the disintegration of a family is brilliant.  It was so refreshing to read a book involving a child that was truly loving (even though it involved troubled souls, they clearly loved their little girl) and did not involve any hostility.	2001-10-11
US	51359947	R3EZBATW2MSCU2	0375410546	388721998	When We Were Orphans	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A beautifully written, heartrending novel.	In slightly Dickensian fashion, Ishiguro builds a sad tale around a nine-year-old British boy in Shanghai at the beginning of the century whose father, working for a firm whispered to have had something to do with the opium trade, disappears one day.  His mother disappears then some days later and Christopher is sent to English to be raised by an aunt.  As a grown man he develops into a rather celebrated detective and it is then that he decides to return to Shanghai to solve the unexplained disappearances of his parents.  He returns during a period of great upheaval in China (during the conflict with Japan in the early 1930s) and searches for and finds his boyhood friend, Akira (in some unbelievable circumstances), and also finds, meets, and is disappointed by Inspector Kung (the man who had headed his father's disappearance case). <br />Ishiguro is the master of understatements (his wonderful \\"Remains of the Day\\" won the Booker Prize) and yet this novel left me with such despair.  This boy is orphaned and yet does not mourn the loss of his parents.  He returns to China during a period of almost anarchy and confusion and seems strangely oblivious to it all - his focus so intense on his particular goal.  What makes this book worth reading is the exquisite prose of Kazuo Ishiguro.  He has a patience in his writing that allows the reader to absorb what is being said at different levels.  A beautifully written, heartrending novel.	2001-10-11
US	51359947	R3T4S8Y08BXEAT	0440236673	376574359	The Brethren	Books	3	0	0	N	N	An entertaining romp!	I rarely read Grisham because there is usually so much more out there, but in an airport bookshop I picked it up for a quick flight read, and was pleasantly entertained.  The Brethren are three tarnished southern judges who have found themselves in a minimum-security prison in Florida for scandals involving bingo-skimming, drunk driving or tax problems.  They hold court in the prison, resolving bizarre, irrelevant prison disagreements and are generally bored until they stumble upon the perfect way to get rich.  They work out a scheme to bilk wealthy, married, reputable, middle-aged men of blackmail cash by advertising as a nice young gay man looking for a pen pal.  They are fairly successful until the day they realize that one of their hooks is the leading presidential candidate.  The way Grisham develops his characters, their dialogue, and their resolution really is ingenious and every time I read a novel of his I can see Hollywood picking the stars out.  To the reviewers who panned this book - you are getting exactly what you are paying for, folks - if you want really tight plots or believable ones - look elsewhere - this is &quot;pulp fiction&quot; at its finest!	2001-10-09
US	51359947	RP8TXQ8Q24LNG	0671011367	484181364	Deja Dead (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Oh, to be a southern belle in the Montreal winter...	This is Reichs first novel involving Dr. Temperance (Tempe) Brennan, a forensic anthropologist from North Carolina who has been seconded to Montreal.  Although I am not a keen grisly-serial-killer-mystery reader, this was a very well-written book for the genre.  Tempe is dealing with a serial rapist/murderer who leaves his remains in garbage bags buried around the city.  She does her forensic work at the Laboratoire de Medicine Legale in Montreal and with an odd assortment of characters, and is forced to deal with a considerable amount of resistance from the police force, namely one detective, Luc Claudel (who is almost too obstructive to be believed).  Also involved in this mystery is a school friend of hers, Gabby, who is studying prostitutes and sometimes, it seems, leads Tempe around by the nose with just enough information but not as much as she needs.  As with most novels of this type, the closing pages find Tempe in a good deal of danger  that she will only be able to get out of if Detective Claudel will just start believing her.  This was actually a fairly good read and I will likely pick up her others.	2001-10-09
US	51359947	R2YX0HNDWV4623	0571196349	19420487	Difficult Daughters: A Novel	Books	3	21	21	N	N	To rail against convention is to be damaged...	Suggested by the Bengali women in my local book club, this was a fascinating (at times frustrating) but mostly educational (for me) novel about the incredibly intense social and familial structures of Northwest India during Partition.  Our story-teller is the daughter of Virmati who, as a young woman, is drawn more to the intellectual pursuits of life rather than the political ones some of her schoolmates are drawn to.  Virmati has been given the chance to study (though rather reluctantly) by her parents and travels to Lahore to do so.  She is a woman ahead of her time and is not keen to be relegated to the kitchen and the bedroom like wives of the time are, and her wish to never marry is somewhat disgraceful to her family.  After returning home she begins to fall in love with (and he with her) an educated man who is a family neighbor (The Professor), in large part because he openly values her intelligence and encourages her constant pursuit of knowledge.  He is tormented by his love for her because he is already married - but finally is pushed by a friend to make her his second wife.  She is torn about the decision, but to live with the man she loves (and one who treats her as an intellectual equal) is more important than anything.  This marriage results in a complete and total abandonment of Virmati by her family something that wounds her terribly.  We discover that Virmati's daughter, as she seeks out those who can tell her about her mother, has also been a difficult daughter in her own way.  This book was both wonderful and terribly sad....anyone, man or woman, who rails against convention to do what they believe is right for them in their hearts, is bound to be damaged in the process.	2001-10-02
US	51359947	R2P2PRP0XTT9FH	0609607898	424501834	Grasshopper	Books	3	1	2	N	N	well-woven tale of those unlike most of us...	I picked up this book at a used book sale and was not aware until I had finished it that Barbara Vine was Ruth Rendell (or v/v).  Her protagonist, Clodagh is a young woman who loves to climb (and has some claustrophobia) and who has suffered a horrible tragedy as a 16 year old (inadvertently involved with the death of her sweetheart), and is sent to live with relatives in London.  Her aunt and uncle are weird birds and she spends most of her time alone and in the basement apartment they have her cooped up in.  Unable to get into school (which is why shes there), she stumbles over a strange group of other youngsters who either live or hang out in the penthouse apartment across the street.<br />Before long she falls for the owner of the apartment, Silver, who takes her out to the rooftops of London.  Its a rough and eccentric bunch with Silver, including an au pair from Sweden who is fleeing pretty much everything, a very quiet young man who is only alive at night on the roofs of the city, and a psychopathic delinquent whose behavior we fear, comes to damage in the end.  The group of climbers eventually become involved with a couple fleeing the police (who would take their child from them), and the climax of the story, while not terribly surprising, is still satisfying.  This was a novel of complex characters, well written, well woven, and worth reading.	2001-10-02
US	51359947	R1QAF5TVQ4T9UG	0385720114	977875409	The Map of Love: A Novel	Books	3	30	34	N	N	Anna's journals keep this alive...	Beginning with Fatima Mernissi, my favorite Muslim feminist, I love reading about the lives of women that are so different from mine - and usually, are more intense and more meaningful. Although a good friend who'd lived in Egypt said she had to force herself to get through some parts - I found this story to be gripping enough to hold me.  Certainly the best parts are those from the diary and letters of the turn-of-the-century Englishwoman named Anna Winterbourne.  After her young husband dies, Anna travels to Egypt, loves how different it is from her world, and eventually pulls away from the stuffy, closed-minded colonial community and falls in love with an older Egyptian nationalist (Sharif).  Fast forward 95 years and find Isabel Parkman in New York City routing through her dying mother's things and finding a trunk full of what turn out to be Anna's documents.  Because some of the documents are in Arabic she asks a man she is seeing, Omar (an unlikely international conductor) for assistance and he sends her to Cairo to his sister Amal.  We learn soon enough that Isabel and Amal are cousins and the two of them begin to uncover the wonders of their ancestor's journal (and letters).  Based in Egypt during unsettled times (both in the late 1890s and in the late 1990s) issues of nationalism and culture clashes are mirrored in both story lines. Soueif is much more powerful in her Egyptian characters and history and the relationship between Anna and Sharif is a pleasure to read.  Sections of the book devoted to Isabel and her \\"issues\\" are considerably less enjoyable - but get through these because as the whole the book is a delightful family saga.	2001-10-02
US	51359947	R2J6V3B29I3ZFQ	0375703861	363806782	White Teeth: A Novel	Books	3	9	16	N	N	BIG book for a steadfast reader....	A (too) long but humorous book about the bizarre and sometimes slightly tragic evolutions that families go through when they are adapting to a new/different cultures.  This is Smith's first novel and it is often very witty.  The book covers the current goings on between and with Samad Iqbal (a screwy Bengali) and Archie Jones (a working class Brit) - who have been friends for decades (as a result of a bizarre military experience).  Their wives, Clara (a wild Jamaican woman who was beautiful but had all her teeth knocked out as a girl), and Alsana (who is basically angry all the time) are equally funny and odd.  The lives of these two families and in particular their children - are the threads that tie the book together.  Smith manages to cover, through her characters discussions, every sort of issue imaginable: race, religion, fate, teenage angst, pregnancy, etc.  Her characters are all complex and deftly developed.  And since they are complicated (realistic) they are not all particularly likable.  This was a fun book for me, living in a Bengali culture I could laugh and nod whenever Samad did something really \\"Bengali\\".  Some of Smith's best writing is in the dialogues and conversations.  It is a big book and should only be tackled if you are a steadfast reader.	2001-10-02
US	51359947	R3DGO45RNRBHA5	0618082387	209591295	The Walking Tour	Books	2	8	10	N	N	a strangely unsatisfying read...	A confusing and, in the end, an unsatisfying read.  Susan, the (now) adult daughter of a couple who have long since passed on, goes back through diaries, letters, and other things to sort out for herself (it seems) the day in Wales when her mother died (or was killed?).  While the potential was there to give us a romping good mystery, Davis gets the reader all glopped up with unnecessary dialogue and seemingly missing information in our efforts to understand what is happening.  The story surrounds two American couples, (with long sordid pasts with each other) the husbands are business partners, who take a trip to Wales for a walking tour of the region.  There are other characters involved, a couple of single women, the couple who runs the tours (and the B&amp;B where they are all staying), etc... but they are put forth in an unsatisfactory manner.  Finally, there is a very vague undercurrent that suggests that Susan is living in some sort of anarchic or fascist state as, perhaps (we never know) a result of the computer work her father and the other man did.  In any case, I agree with one reviewer of this novel who said, it might have been saved with some editing.  I found it very hard to follow.	2001-10-02
US	51359947	R3L8WX16OCIWSP	0060934913	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	4	4	5	N	N	No apologies, just the fast-paced truths!!	I first read Anthony Bourdain in the pages of a New Yorker magazine and was absolutely blown away by the pace and wit in his extraordinary story-telling.  Bourdain, chef at \\"Les Halles\\" in New York, gives us a no-holds-barred brutally honest view of the steamy side (literally!) of the restaurant world, particularly in New York City.  Although some reviewers have complained about some of the language used (and it is particularly nasty between the various nationalities of men in the kitchens) and the sheer volume of drug use, I think that without it, the book might not have been so authentic.  Bourdain makes no apologies but rather, tells a great story.  In one chapter he describes being in France as a child with his family and during that trip, his discovery of his love for food.  In another he describes from morning through a full day (and late night) - a day in the life of a restaurant chef - it is a brisk, wonderful ride - every word (this chapter was the one published in the New Yorker that so enthralled me).  In a later chapter he talks about his first trip to Tokyo, assisting the owners of Les Halles with their Tokyo restaurant.  His description of the fish markets in Tokyo at the crack of dawn is absolutely riveting.  Forget reading it so you can pick up tips about when to order fish and why never to get a well-done piece of meat - it is so much more than that. Get over the language and learn about the incredible world of those whose food you eat.	2001-10-02
US	51359947	R2XIBROP1NC6H4	0385490488	354930647	Winona's Web: A Novel of Discovery	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A web of self discovery, a wonderful, sweet tale.	This was a sweet book and I encourage women of all ages to read it.  Our protagonist, Dr. Meggie O'Connor moves back to the family farm from New York City after her many year-old marriage fails and she is fast approaching her fortieth birthday. She is a psychologist and restarts her practice in northern Michigan.  One of her early clients/patients is Winona Pathfinder, a Native American \\"healer\\" whose daughter has pushed her to therapy because she insists she will be dying soon, thank you very much.  As this relationship grows it becomes more quickly evident to the reader than to Meggie that it is she who is being healed.  Meggie learns a good deal about Winona's life, her decisions, and her reasons for the calm prediction of death and is drawn into the validity of the pipe-smoking, and the Native American `medicine' ways.  In a very subtle way, Winona draws Meggie into a real change of view about who she is and what her value is.  Finally, there is a love interest that, in a surprise in the end, makes the story wonderfully complete.	2001-10-02
US	51359947	R3FPJ6OV6NVQG9	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A light and cleverly written little tale	A thin volume for a Booker Prize winner, this was a clever little mystery - written without a lot of the filler and fluff that sometimes accompanies such tales.  A woman named Molly Lane dies and at the funeral her many friends and lovers discuss some of the mystery of her life and her death.  Two of those friends, a snooty newsman and pompous musician decide that the most horrible thing would be to find oneself in a vegetative state - and they pledge to \\"help\\" the other should something like this befall either one of them.  It is with some hilarity that the reader is able to follow the trials of these two men and try to guess which will succumb to the other first, and how the whole series of events are set in motion.  Perhaps for some readers there will not be enough character development - although I felt that not much more was necessary - we knew all we really needed to about our various protagonists.  It's a short, easy read with an almost lightness of manner.  A clever romp	2001-09-25
US	51359947	R18VCRSHYGRI55	0671657860	882252700	Many Lives, Many Masters: The True Story of a Prominent Psychiatrist, His Young Patient, and the Past-Life Therapy That Changed Both Their Lives	Books	3	25	44	N	N	Fiction? Non-fiction? Believable? or not....	A friend who is very interested in the idea of reincarnation and past lives passed me this book as a sort of introduction to the subject.  The author, a psychiatrist who considers himself both mainstream and well-reputed, finds himself with a patient (a basically healthy young woman) who is having trouble coping with a couple of very unnatural fears.  Under hypnosis the doctor finds the woman describing in detail, events in previous lives (some hundreds of years ago in countries like Spain and Egypt).  Over the course of many months, he works with her while she is hypnotized, to better understand from which lives she has `learned' a given fear and to work through the event that causes the fear.  While a fun sort of tale, I found it completely unbelievable in large part because the patient was just incredibly blas&eacute; about what would be seen by most people as an amazing phenomena - being able to go back and relate with supposed accuracy and detail numerous past lives.  She was almost sheep-like in her manner - sort of just following along with the doctor as these sessions were revealing some extraordinary events.  A good introduction to the idea of past lives, perhaps, but nothing more than an interesting psychological tale.	2001-04-18
US	51359947	R2M3O0ZK6ZFNRN	0385482388	887532070	The Mistress of Spices: A Novel	Books	4	8	11	N	N	I can taste the love and mystery in this prose!	This is an absolutely engaging modern day fairy tale with a funny twist in the end, I was captivated by every spice, by every story, by every interaction that Tilo (our spice \\"Mistress\\") had. The book begins in a far-away eastern country (India?) in a far-away time and finds us with the protagonist - a wild woman of the ages, a seer in her own culture who runs away with pirates and then bored, finds (with the help of sea serpents) a hidden island on which young women with extra-sensory powers are `trained' by the Old Mother in the ways of the spices.  They become Mistresses of Spices and are flung far and wide to practice their arts.  Our Mistress find herself in a dingy spice shop in east LA, and transformed into the body of a wrinkled old woman.  And there and then her adventure really begins.  As she encounters the various people (and families) who come to her for help (unbeknownst to them) she begins to push the limits of her `permitted' boundaries (both physical and emotional) and then a man enters her life and she is confronted with a life-changing decision.  This was a wonderful tale and the illusions of the powers of spices, the power of Tilo, and finally, the ubiquitous power...of love.  What fun!	2001-04-18
US	51359947	R26RW6HM7H8WR0	0671035673	672788878	Salt Water	Books	2	5	9	N	N	No &quot;First Love&quot;, smug, cool, hard to relate to...	Simmons opens his book with the line, &quot;In the summer of 1963, I fell in love and my father drowned.&quot;  The idea of telling the reader in the first sentence what they will then carry in their minds as the read this little novel is a very unusual mode of control.  I found I was involved in the unfolding of the love story but could NOT focus on the writing and the evenness of the prose because I kept waiting for the part where the father will drown (perhaps my reading eye has been adulterated by too many murder mysteries?).  Although Simmons tells us quite forwardly that he has based his piece on Turgenev's &quot;First Love,&quot; this is a story has neither the depth nor power.  One reviewer calls it a 'saga of adolescence,' which accurately portrays the hormones, anger, fear, despair and other feelings that seem to almost manhandle our young protagonist, Michael, but it the book is written in such a smug manner that it is hard to feel any of these passions.  Michael's handsome father and lovely mother have taken their usual shore house for the summer and Michael finds that an unusual pair have rented next door - a Russian woman (Mrs. Mertz) and her daughter, Zina.  Michael's mother is unhappy in the marriage (father cheats on her), and both the neighbor women cause her (justifiable) worry.  Zina and her mother (and their mostly gay friends) are way too shallow and sophisticated for Michael's naivet&eacute; although he can't see this.  When I first finished the book I was left unimpressed.  Although there was plenty of emotion and passion (in particular, floating around in Michael's head and heart) - I never clicked with any of the characters... they almost seemed a little too &quot;Virginia Woolf-ish&quot; for their own good, no one ever having real conversations but lots of talk full of double entendres and illusions.	2001-04-01
US	51359947	R385D14BFR01LR	055214648X	944569053	Notes from a Big Country (Bryson)	Books	3	22	22	N	N	Coming home ain't easy but it sure is funny....!	Bryson, one of the funniest 'blokes' around, has collected a series of articles he was commissioned to write for a London newspaper.  After living for twenty years in English he has moved his family back to the States to the lovely Hanover, NH to set up life anew.  To preface these very funny pieces he explains that although he spent his youth in the sticky summers of Iowa (and retains a deep love for the game of baseball) he spent his adulthood in the UK where he learned to deal with grown-up issues (mortgages, taxes, putting in screens, getting the lawn mowed whilst on holiday, etc..).  This is the perfect preface because, of course, he now finds that he is confronted with the country of his birth and is acutely aware of all of the ridiculous things he can now view as an outsider.  He speaks to us about the pleasures of living in a small town where they (he is amazed) don't have to lock the doors and he can go to an honest-to-God diner for the slop they serve there as well as the absurdities found in every aisle of the typical American supermarket (the piece about the trip to the market and his insistence on buying a cart full of junk food that Mrs. B tells him he can only get if he will really eat it is a riot) and his discovery of 'breakfast pizza'.  You don't have to have lived overseas to understand what can be frustrating about returning 'home' into culture shock once you read Bryson's simple and frankly logical, descriptions of what he sees after his absence.  And any American who HAS dealt with the bureaucracies in other countries will weep with laughter and feel the pain as Bryson tries to get his wife (of 20+ years) a green card and to get the US government, sometime later, to divulge her social security number.  Very, very funny stuff.	2001-03-20
US	51359947	R220SNEN5T6KOX	0688177859	894932092	Ahab's Wife: Or, The Star-Gazer: A Novel	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A grand epic novel about a fascinating woman...	What a stunning, beautiful novel.  The first sentence, &quot;Ahab was neither my first husband nor my last,&quot; sets the stage for this grand novel  - Una is a woman whose stories are vibrant, impressive, and overwhelming to imagine.  At a staggering 650+ pages, this masterpiece is worth every single page because you will savor every story, every trip, every character, every adventure, and every love, and you will put it down wishing for more.  Naslund has plucked Una (Captain Ahab's wife) from her honorable mention in Melville's &quot;Moby Dick&quot;, and woven a deeply satisfying portrait of a young girl who leaves her home in the hills of Kentucky because her god-fearing father cannot abide by her (her mother actually realizes that the child may be in danger because she cannot bring herself to believe what her father does so fervently), and travels to a small Island in (we assume) Long Island sound, not far from Nantucket to be raised by her aunt and uncle, a lighthouse keeper.<br />Una goes to sea on a whaling vessel at 16 disguised as a boy, she suffers a shipwreck and an experience that drives her male companions to madness.  Much of what happens to Una and her response to those experiences are such a pleasure to read, Naslund's prose is easy and her story captivating - the reader may find him/herself learning things (s)he never realized about his/her own country's history.  I must resist telling all that happens although even if the reader knows, (s)he will look forward to being carried away on the wings of this novel.  Someone else wrote and I agree, if you only buy one novel this year, I strongly suggest it is this one.	2001-03-20
US	51359947	RZMNYWK8URMCT	0394583965	360329283	Passionate Nomad: The Life of Freya Stark	Books	5	50	50	N	N	Tenderly written bio on an astounding human being!	Dame Freya Stark (who died in 1993 at the age of 100) was, simply, an amazing, uppity, wild woman - WELL ahead of her time and full of the demons and insecurities that frequently propel the great among us to show their true colors.  Having lived in the Middle East I was absolutely absorbed by this incredibly well-documented and tenderly written portrayal of a woman who eventually became one of the England's most favorite travelers and 'royal geographers' (and, some say, an accurate foreteller of Arab/Israeli conflict)!  Stark struck out late in life (in her 30s) on a journey of solitary trips and exploration throughout Syria, Iran, Yemen, and other corners of the region, as well as living an extremely active British propagandist's life in Egypt during WW II.  That she traveled alone in places where ne'er a Western woman had trod before is at first extraordinary, but in addition, she also had the skill, want, and presence of mind to write prolifically about her experiences and adventures, not only in the form of news articles but in detailed, emotional, voluminous letters to friends and family.  And thank goodness.  Stark's life was, in a sense, quite bi-polar.  On the one hand she yearned to marry and have children and yet had she done that she would likely never have charted maps, discovered mythical ruins, and run rogue through various British attempts at diplomacy in the Middle East.  Her parents split when she was young and her mother was a force to be reckoned with (and is probably responsible for destroying Freya's one attempt at a true marriage as well as destroying Freya's younger sister).  Freya, in her search for marriage was drawn to gay men in the Royal British Foreign Service (whom she steadfastly refused to believe were gay).  Outside of her (self-proclaimed) failed social achievements, her travel and her writing were extraordinary.<br />Geniesee has done a spectacular job of keeping us, as readers, balanced in our views and Freya, as our &quot;quarry&quot; balanced as well.  She shares with the reader the frustrations of people who did not understand Stark, and we read in a number of places about what a difficult travel companion she could be.  The reader is also privy to Stark's somewhat bizarre social behavior in which she shuns close friends suddenly and for very (ostensibly) strange reasons.  Geniesse, in other words, has done a good job of keeping her protagonist honest for us... something that biographers can sometimes find difficult to do (the urge to glorify or demonize may overtake).  This is a monument to women everywhere who find great joy (I do, obviously) in reading about the women who blaze the trails, who reach beyond society's expectations for them, who go and do and learn because they want to, damn it.  It was such a pleasure reading about this grand dame.ry&quot; balanced as well.  She shares with the reader the frustrations of people who did not understand Stark, and we read in a number of places about what a difficult travel companion she could be.  The reader is also privy to Stark's somewhat bizarre social behavior in which she shuns close friends suddenly and for very (ostensibly) strange reasons.  Geniesse, in other words, has done a good job of keeping her protagonist honest for us... something that biographers can sometimes find difficult to do (the urge to glorify or demonize may overtake).  This is a monument to women everywhere who find great joy (I do, obviously) in reading about the women who blaze the trails, who reach beyond society's expectations for them, who go and do and learn because they want to, damn it.  It was such a pleasure reading about this grand dame.	2001-03-20
US	51359947	RSERGFFU2D0KW	0679730672	912151089	Out of Place: A Memoir	Books	4	15	22	N	N	Not who he is, but HOW he become....	Since my travels in the Middle East, I have been gifted with books on the theme.  Edward Said's autobiography is a profound examination of one man's early life as it seems and feels to him,`out of place.'  Said is a Jerusalem-born Christian raised, for the most part, in Cairo and Lebanon (summers)... always in places which are not quite home, always in places where traditions and experiences feel temporary or are fleeting.  A professor at Columbia University, Said's memoirs are painful and involve a doting (but at times very manipulative) mother, a harsh, focused successful businessman father (whose behavior towards his son could almost be termed abusive, certainly at an emotional level), and sisters who were kept at arm's length.  Although the intricacies of familial harmony and love are difficult enough to write about, Said spends a great deal of time, in essence, examining his parents' behaviors as well as, in what I though was a mature and extraordinary gesture, forgiving them - as human beings with their own insecurities, and fears of failure.<br />Said set himself to write this autobiography at a time in life when he was ill with leukemia  - a time in which he had the greatest need to understand the paths he had taken to bring his where he was and to explain, perhaps to himself as well as his family, why he had spent his life feeling that he never fit in: an English/French speaker in Arab countries, a Christian in a Muslim country, a foreigner in a snobby WASPish US ivy league college (and before that a New England prep school), the son of a businessman with the sons of diplomats (or politicians), the cousin in a family who split over details, a young man in a family of girls who searched in vain for a positive sense of body.  Most strangely and most powerfully, this book is a true memoir and really ends when Said gets into college.  I say strangely because Said is apparently a \\"cultural critic\\" of great renown and yet this book examines not who he is, but how he BECOME who he is.  How the circumstances of his youth groomed him to be a critical thinker.  It is at the same time a fascinating look at, as I said, another person's life and the development that a child experiences.ow he BECOME who he is.  How the circumstances of his youth groomed him to be a critical thinker.  It is at the same time a fascinating look at, as I said, another person's life and the development that a child experiences.	2001-03-20
US	51359947	R37JE5WZP9KW61	0679776451	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The absolute resilience of the human spirit...	To be living in the Asian subcontinent and see the misery, filth and abject poverty all around me, I was almost elated when I finished this novel - it was beautiful, and so hard at the same time.  I put it down emotionally exhausted.  Set in the mid-seventies somewhere in India (Bombay?) Mistry has built a complex and sociological masterpiece that is at once a slice of Dickens and another of Faulkner.  The lives of four very different kinds of people: a Parsi woman (Dina) who lost her true love, her husband, at a young age and is determined NOT to remarry to anyone she does not love;  A young man and only child, Maneck Kholah from the hills of northern India whose father invented a cola recipe and mother's family lost millions in land when partition occurred; and two tailors, Omprakash and Ishvar two tailors from an untouchable caste and a miserable village brutalized by the village feudal lord, Thakur.<br />These four characters come together in the most happenstance of circumstances, Dina is eking out a living as a seamstress, Maneck needs to rent a room away from the nasty dorms at his school, and Ishvar and Om need work as tailors.The four of them begin to know each other, initially with a good deal of distrust and skepticism as Dina sets up shop with the tailors in her apartment and has taken on Maneck as a boarder (Maneck's mom and Dina were old schoolmates).  They slowly get to know each other and learn about the horrors, pains, delights and lives of each other.  As they grow closer and share deeper kinship they find their lives begin to stabilize.<br />At that point, a number of incredible misfortunes cut out that stability and in a series of almost unbelievably cruel and miserable events their lives are brought to near-ruin.It sounds horrible and in fact, there are moments in the reading when you feel it would just be impossible for situations to get worse.  It is in these moments that the reader will recognize just how resilient the human spirit is and be amazed at how far that is for these people.  Mistry's writing is so easy to read, his dialogues flow at once with chatter and substance, and his descriptions will carry you into the very heart of the diseased slums.  It is not the book we read that has the happy ending that will teach us anything or force us to examine our own lives - you will think about this book for days and days after you have finished it.amazed at how far that is for these people.  Mistry's writing is so easy to read, his dialogues flow at once with chatter and substance, and his descriptions will carry you into the very heart of the diseased slums.  It is not the book we read that has the happy ending that will teach us anything or force us to examine our own lives - you will think about this book for days and days after you have finished it.	2001-03-20
US	51359947	R39CKQ3MUO6JUJ	0786866586	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A quietly, sweet, poignant, sometimes funny little novel!	As `novellas' seem the be the flavor of the month in book authorship, Steve Martin has stepped up to the plate and produced a quietly, sweet, poignant, sometimes funny little novel.  Mirabelle, a shopgirl who suffers from depression (for which she needs medication) and who sells the \\"things that nobody buys\\" (gloves in a department store in LA) is floating along just at the surface of `is this all there is?\\", when she captures the heart (ok, at first, the libido) of Ray, the weathy divorced businessman.<br />Secondary characters in our little venture into the twisted world of relationships include Lisa, another shopgirl of decidedly different perceptions of what a woman's body is `really' meant for (running, or was that ruining, men's lives), and Jeremy who starts out as a slouch who considers meeting Mirabelle at the laundromat a `date.  While the potential to ride quickly into the despairs of relationships that are destined not to work might have been present, there is nothing despairing about this novella.  It is a tenderly written, even somewhat humorous series of accounts of the dates, meetings and interactions by Mirabelle, Ray and their supporting cast.  Humorous?  There is a scene toward the end in which Lisa mistakes Jeremy for Ray - it is worth the price of the book.<br />As time moves along, Mirabelle grows and changes.  So, oddly at first, does Jeremy (whose impetus to suddenly make a decision about where his life is going is not based on any particular incident, unlike Mirabelle's whose impetus is).  The reader doesn't love Mirabelle, necessarily, but we are happy for her as the book comes to its close and she comes to her closure.  For a novella it is a real gem, it would have been a crummy full length book and an ineffective short story.  Steve Martin is not just one of America's very best comedians, but he has another incredibl set of creative neurons firing away (read him in the New Yorker some time), all the better for his fans.	2001-03-20
US	51359947	R1I7967E15YD8G	0380732181	533998994	Underachiever's Diary	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Humor saves an otherwise hideous self-pity party...	Benjamin Anastas's novella (these 'little' novels seem to be all the rage these days) is a sometimes funny, sometimes very droll, sometimes (FEW times) poignant fictional autobiography of a twin named William, who, although first out the womb, is the apparently weaker twin - hopelessly chasing twin brother Clive through childhood, adolesence and young adulthood.  I had a good deal of trouble getting caught up in the story of William, I think in large part because his droll wallows through self-piting exercises of &quot;Clive got the A's, I did my best to fail&quot; sorts of scenarios were eventually a bit tiring.  What keeps one reading on is that in fact, the writing is well done, and quite humorous.  In ordinary circumstances a human being who was this ridiculous would be rightly ignored and certainly not put to paper (there was nothing to learn form William's experiences), but because Anastas gives his 'anti-hero' such a wonderful droopy dog sense of humor, we are not sucked into the void of William's justified (occasional) despair.  The book is worth the read in large part because it is brief (you can kill it in an evening) and so the humor does not go stale.	2001-03-20
US	51359947	R3D38HJSQSM41T	0935312838	586100204	Sultana's Dream and Selections from The Secluded Ones (A Feminist Press Sourcebook)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Purdah.... a complex issue	This little book was more than just an extraordinary short story written by a woman in 1905 who examined and questioned purdah by turning the issue into a humorous &quot;dream&quot; sequence (in a place where the men are in purdah!) - it is also a compilation of other materials in the examination of what purdah is and means.  Relatively unknown and not understood in the West, &quot;purdah&quot; (&quot;parda&quot; in Hindi, meaning 'curtain') is the seclusion and segregation of women (even from other women, not of the family) and is a tradition that is thrust upon women of many Middle Eastern and Asian societies.  In the West we confusedly belief it is only Muslim when in fact other religions undertake it as well.<br />Rokeya Hossain wrote Sultana's Dream at the urging of her husband who was quite forward-thinking (for an Asian male in the early part of the last century!) and who believed that by writing, she would be able to perfect her English skills.  The Dream is brilliantly simple and clearly written. The idea that a woman in purdah should suddenly find herself in a place where it is the men in the society who are hidden away and where life is peaceful and intellectual thought and political balance are the norm (as a result of not having the men out messing things up), is a delight even to a contemporary Western reader.<br />The second section of this book is a section complied by Roushan Jahan in which Hossain's writing about purdah (from a book called &quot;The Secluded Ones&quot;) is reproduced in the form of various 'reports' all of which demonstrate something fundamentally absurb or violent about being in purdah.  The third section is a piece by a Western woman named Hanna Papanek who examines how much more complicated purdah is than just a means by which men in a given society control and suppress women.  That definition is certainly valid, but Papanek also examines a case where a woman raised in purdah finds &quot;exposure&quot; (after a life of purdah) to be fraught with fear and discomfort.<br />In all, a fascinating and in a strange sense appalling cultural phenomena that is basically unknown to the West, purdah is handed here to the reader in a way that makes it possible to examine it without generating the viseral anger that the idea raises in most educated women.  I am strongly inclined to study the issue further and to find &quot;The Secluded Ones&quot; - once I feel strong enough not to let it infuriate me!o be fraught with fear and discomfort.<br />In all, a fascinating and in a strange sense appalling cultural phenomena that is basically unknown to the West, purdah is handed here to the reader in a way that makes it possible to examine it without generating the viseral anger that the idea raises in most educated women.  I am strongly inclined to study the issue further and to find &quot;The Secluded Ones&quot; - once I feel strong enough not to let it infuriate me!	2001-03-12
US	51359947	R31AP6IQJFSVSU	0061043370	474570269	Death at La Fenice	Books	4	78	80	N	N	What FUN the Brunetti mysteries are!!	While I waited for a flight in Venice, I wandered into the bookshop in the little airport there and picked up a handful of Donna Leon's mysteries.  I was DELIGHTED!  Leon is a University of Maryland professor seconded to a University in the Veneto and she has developed a sweet Venetian detective protagonist, Guido Brunetti.  La Fenice (The Phoenix, in Italian) is the famous Venetian opera house and serves as the crime scene for Brunetti's first case.  When a famous Austrian orchestra conductor, Helmut Wellauer, is discovered in his dressing room after the second act, dead of cyanide poisoning, Guido must find not only the killer but the motive of course.  His search takes him into the sexually perverse past (distant AND recent) of the conductor but also finds him confronting any number of people who are likely suspects including most of the people he worked with and a number of family members.  One of the most attractive things about Leon's detective is that he is an amiable, competent family man who is dealing with the quotidian: moody teenaged son, bouncy sure-footed pre-teen daughter, a headstrong and likable wife (an English professor) in addition to an INcompetent power-insecure supervisor who does little but obstruct Brunetti's efforts.  The discovery of the murderer is so complicated and the final twist in the end so neatly and tidily closes the case that I was hooked and couldn't wait to read the next one.  I have always loved murder mysteries (as one reviewer calls &quot;procedural police mysteries&quot;), and Leon's are among the finest.	2001-02-27
US	51359947	RZUYATDGHIG47	0060170085	425399775	Death in a Strange Country	Books	3	32	36	N	N	Another wonderful Brunetti mystery	When a young American man is found floating dead in one of Venice's canals, our man Guido Brunetti is on the case again.  In this story, Brunetti discovers that the john doe is an American sergeant from the nearby US military base in the Veneto hills whose job was as the public health inspector for the military hospital.  In all of Leon's books, Brunetti frequently finds himself constrained by those who should otherwise be assisting him.  His supervisor, Patti, urges him to avoid digging and brushes it off as a mugging gone bad (in all of the Brunetti cases Patti finds more reasons than not to either pull Guido off a case, or insist that the important people who begin to appear implicated in a given murder could not possibly be involved and must be left alone) and even dismisses the case and has Guido assigned to a burglary of some art work in one of the wealthy homes on the Grand Canal.  Brunetti finds planted cocaine in the man's small apartment, and has an initial interview with the man's associate, a young woman who is found later to have (questionably) committed suicide.  The more obvious it becomes that Guido is not meant to discover what actually happened to the sergeant or more importantly, why, the more urgent his investigation becomes.  Again, a delight to read Leon weave all the pieces together.	2001-02-27
US	51359947	R184HZMXL3I9QR	0060177969	483757726	Death and Judgment	Books	3	57	65	N	N	Sometimes the underworld is so ugly...	The fourth in a five book series (oh, that Donna Leon would keep writing these....), Death and Judgment brings us back to our dear detective, Guido Brunetti and his family, and his work in Venice.  I will steal from a reviewer who suggested that Leon writes three novels in one: about murder, about Venice, and about relationships, because it is true and it is just this that brings us back again and again to see what Brunetti is up against this time.  An important lawyer is found dead on the train from Padua to Venice (and of course, Brunetti's supervisor, Patti urges him to consider this a simple robbery &quot;gone bad&quot;).  At about the same time a large truck slides off an ice-y mountain road in Northern Italy and the dead bodies of a number of young women are discovered in the back (crushed by the load of lumber in the truck).  Then when the dead lawyer's accountant is also found murdered, Brunetti slowly begins to find the connections and uncovers a horrible web of international prostitution and a pornographic film industry built by some truly evil but highly influential and powerful Venetian citizens.  As Leon always involves us with Guido's family, especially his dear wife (and local English professor) and children, this novel is no different and Guido's precocious daughter actually helps him solve this case, which has a typically complex yet logical conclusion.	2001-02-27
US	51359947	R2PXEAWELX3Q98	037570096X	26708398	Let Nothing You Dismay	Books	3	0	0	N	N	An oddly sweet, uplifting little tale...	Even though some reviewers did not like this book, I thought it was a lovely little novel.  It is a week before Christmas in Manhattan and Tad, our protagonist, has just been fired from his job at an elementary school (as a story-teller) because an affectionate child has told his mother that Tad was his favorite hugger or some such nonsense (the mother is, of course, on the board or somehow related to those who worry about this).  Tad has also realized that the apartment he has occupied for some time will no longer be available to him as the rightful owner is coming home.  It is a Sunday and Tad has been invited to seven different events (functions) which he decides that morning he will attend in spite of the feelings of doom and gloom and utter loneliness he is feeling about his life.  The reason I so liked this little book is because, while droll in its humor, it was at a very basic level, uplifting.  We have brunch with Tad's family who are bizarre yet strangely accommodating, especially a brother he was never close to but who provides him with some food for thought.  We meet old friends of Tad's who offer him a place to stay for a while if he needs, we meet the sister of an old boyfriend (who Tad treated poorly) who is actually rather forgiving, we meet some other friends who are artists and so self-consumed and weird that Tad seems perfectly fine by comparison, we attend a high end party where Tad drinks too much, says the wrong things to the wrong people, yet manages to stir compassion in the (potential new boyfriend) heart of someone who returns his wallet.  And we visit the basement in the elementary school Tad has just been fired from, some of his better co-workers who have snuck away from the holiday party and commiserate with him.  I liked this book because Tad has every reason to be depressed and wallow in self pity and yet he ventures out in his very vulnerable state and manages to let people take care of him in a very off-hand sweet sort of way.  He allows himself to see that life is not over and that things are going to turn up.  I liked the whole premise.lows himself to see that life is not over and that things are going to turn up.  I liked the whole premise.	2001-02-27
US	51359947	R3TUIXTOBZXVOH	0446525308	635965578	A Parting Gift	Books	2	2	5	N	N	A &quot;pretty&quot; story, but not very realistic...	This book was written by a father for his son upon the boy's high school graduation.  A young man, Josh, is a son of divorced parents (his father seems to have forgotten him completely) who lives on the Alabama coast and is taken primarily with surfing and little else.  In an effort to assist his mom who makes the meals for Meals on Wheels, he takes to delivering her meals to the area's elderly.  He meets up one day with Mr. Davis, an old man who initially seems rather hard to approach but who seems to like the boy.  Davis asks Josh if he will help him out by spending some of his free time visiting with him and transcribing his memoirs (perhaps a better word is 'memories' - actually of certain events that happened to him in his life).  Josh takes on the project and becomes quite fond of Davis who takes him sailing and takes him to a ball game at his old alma mater.  Davis' &quot;remembered&quot; stories all seem to have a 'lesson' or a 'moral' to them and in fact, they help Josh to think about his life and his future - something he had not been doing even though he was ready to graduate and had no idea what to do in his life.  Although the book was a touching piece of prose, I found it to be a little unrealistic only on the premise that a high school kid would be so easily turned around and so decidedly changed by a relationship like this.  It isn't that I think a kid like this is a lost cause or shouldn't be engaged in a manner like Davis did with Josh, but that the book was a little too neat and tidy to be real.  Teenagers and their relationships with the various adults around them are much more messily engaged.  They have raging hormones and emotional needs that can be way more complex to work with than just a few visits with a nice old guy with an interesting past.  Sorry, I guess I wasn't very moved.	2001-02-27
US	51359947	R1A2OBN1E9T328	0060186518	916120071	Acqua Alta	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Guido Brunetti solves another one!!	One of the things that I so love about Donna Leon's books is that in addition to being terrific mysteries - they evoke all of the smells and tastes, and sights and sounds of this wonderful city.  Having been to Venice I love to read about where Guido is sitting down for a coffee or a drink, and which alleys he crosses and which vapos he takes, and what he notices in the streets and canals because these things are all real!  In this latest Guido Brunetti mystery Leon resurrects two protagonists from &quot;Death at La Fenice&quot;, the diva soprano, Flavia Petrelli and her lesbian lover Brett Lynch (an American archeologist).  Brett opens the door of Flavia's and her apartment to find a couple of thugs who tell her not to make a meeting with the director of a museum who recently showed some of her rare pieces of ancient pottery from China.  Although Brett is hurt but not killed, the director is murdered before she can speak to him.  Brunetti weaves his way through the alleys of Venice's hoodlum underground, finds himself in the home of one of the Venice's greatest art collectors (whose son is one of those hoodlums.... could there be a connection), and must reexamine the &quot;accidental&quot; death of Brett's young assistant while on a dig back in China.  Of course it all comes together one night during the infamous high waters (when the full moon causes the monthly flooding of the narrow Venetian streets and plazas), hence the name of this particular mystery.	2001-02-27
US	51359947	R3OXV9XD6ZX5WA	0679774025	504166475	All over but the Shoutin'	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Exorcise those demons! Make your ma proud....	At the suggestion of a good friend, I picked up Bragg's book.  A Pulitzer prize-winning reporter for the New York Times, Bragg grew up as &quot;poor white trash&quot; in Piedmont, Alabama in the sixties and seventies, and has written a book (dedicated to his mother) for all Americans (not just the Southerners!).  I am still swept away at how powerful, humorous, sweet, painful and sensitive this book is.  As awkward as it is to be in the class of &quot;Yankee yuppies&quot; who should neither appreciate nor understand Bragg's life (according to him), I was so moved and so pained and so happy about what his life had evolved to be - how much of his &quot;luck&quot; (as he believed it was) was really just his clear recognition of the absolute sacrifices his mother (in particular) had made for her three boys, and his understanding that the various men he'd worked for saw his talent and encouraged him.<br />As unsettling as the violence, alcoholism and poverty in this book was (like Mary Karr's, &quot;The Liar's Club&quot;), what is so important about it is that while the middle and upper classes in this country believe that they are living the most fulfilled lives - a book like this will drive home the fact that there are some things in a life that transcend the 'items' whose possession we value, the 'schools' we strive to go to, the circles we run in.  This book demonstrates so clearly that it is the relationships and support of other human beings in our lives that &quot;really&quot; matter..... whether they are poor God-fearing neighbors who help out those even less fortunate than themselves, a mother who makes home-made biscuits in cracklin' fat 'cause she knows you love them,  a grandmother who plays the banjo (self-taught) and teaches you to sing the fun songs, or the older brother who will always hand you the fishing pole with a big one on the hook just so you can reel it in.  Yes, it is so much clearer that all of these complex relationships teach a human being how to be a decent person - and how to survive.  The stories in this book are all painful, some are bittersweet, some are funny, but they are all an education, and allow us to walk in another man's shoes for a while.to be a decent person - and how to survive.  The stories in this book are all painful, some are bittersweet, some are funny, but they are all an education, and allow us to walk in another man's shoes for a while.	2001-02-04
US	51359947	R3IC6LXXU5ZU5Z	0375705856	963629300	Plainsong	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Real voices, real wisdom, real life...	In a quiet, unassuming Colorado town, life involves the connections that human beings make with others.  The writing is plain, like the title, and honest, like the McPheron brothers - older bachelor farmers in Holt, Colorado.  The school teacher, Maggie sort of makes the links in town to better the lives of a young girl who has been kicked out of her house for getting pregnant and abused by her ignorant boyfriend, of another school teacher whose two sons are trying to understand why their parents' marriage has failed and their mother is handling depression (and some of the hard knocks that come from being the teacher's kids), and of the bachelor farmers who take in the pregnant girl against their better judgment and are changed in a powerful and lovely way by the experience.  These people all interact with and have a positive impact on the others' lives  - in a place and a community that are not happy, simple, or kind.  A very well written novel and a reinforcement to the reader that kindness and support are still found in a world where one does not expect to find them. 	2000-12-28
US	51359947	R1L6MIVKXOSCEH	0316779237	383741816	Holidays on Ice: Stories	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Sedaris with the Holiday theme, laugh and laugh!!	Since I have reviewed many of Sedaris' books, it will surprise no one to know that I love his writing.  He can make me weep with laughter.  Holidays is no exception... the piece about applying for a job as a Santa's elf at Macy's in NYC is the one that NPR listeners will recognize and it is no less hilarious in print.  It's the fact that you know this is probably EXACTLY what it is like as a Macy's Xmas elf - together with the emperor-has-no-clothes-on kind of truth that can make the whole essay a keeper.  The other essays in this small collection of Sedaris gems involve other holidays themes.  &quot;Dinah, the Christmas Whore&quot;, changes how a young David views not only his sister Lisa but his family and what the bigger world is all about.  &quot;Season's Greetings,&quot; is a screamingly funny suburban family xeroxed Christmas letter - let's face it, we've all received them, and although we love hearing what's happening in the lives of our friends, sometimes the gloss-over is a bit stretched - in Sedaris' version the life of the family starts out as plastic and suburban as usual and quickly degenerates in a wild tale of illegitimate children, lawsuits, implied incest and a bizarre and very funny host of other issues.  Take a breather, find a corner, read this through while the tree is still up and laugh and laugh and laugh.	2000-12-28
US	51359947	RNBUMIWFLI4T9	0060932759	694565872	Daughter of Fortune	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A rich and alluring tale by an exquisite storyteller...	Allende's books have always transported me to different worlds, different lives, and different time periods.  I have been a fan since the days of, &quot;The House of the Spirits&quot;.  She infuses all her tales with a otherworldliness and a hint of mysticism that is so very Latin American and at the same time so alluring.  Our protagonist is a Chilean orphan (of course) who is full of life and vigor (of course), being raised above her (supposed) circumstances (of course), by a spinster named Rose with a mysterious past (of course) and her emotionless, social climber brother businessman Jeremy (oh, and let's not forget the mysterious and wonderful ship captain, Jeremy's and Rose's brother, John).  But it is the wonderful way that the story progresses from the fascinating 1800's Chilean household complete with music nights and the ubiquitous nurturing housekeeper to the adventure of a first love and a brave and wild escape to the California of the Gold Rush.  Eliza (our orphan) is taken care of by her own good sense and her good fortune (to meet many people who watch out for her - sometimes against their initial better judgment.  For example, Tao Chi'en the chinese medicine man/cook, and his own is a wonderful story in itself!).  I was as engaged by this tale at the beginning as I was at the end... finishing it deeply satisfied by the wonderful world that exists in Isabel Allende's mind and that she is generous enough to share with us.	2000-12-28
US	51359947	R2TR7D0MHT2LYN	0140179836	951224713	The Liars' Club: A Memoir	Books	4	16	18	N	N	An excellent story-teller, a disturbing story...	If it weren't for the fact that Mary Karr has seemed to have survived her horrible childhood in East Texas (with a sense of humor and ability to love intact), this book would have bordered on tragic.  Not that her survival means it is any less mortifying - but sometimes it is important for people who aren't raised in such circumstances to believe that children are, in fact, resilient and that people can escape their upbringings.  It was difficult to put this book down because even though her drunk mother (of many marriages) and slightly unbalanced father were unsettling - there was, it seemed to me, still a significant amount of real love for the children.  Once of the other reasons to read this book is that Mary Karr is just plain and simple an excellent story-teller.  In our world of sound bites and gloss-overs it is a luxury to read (listen) to the stories of the world, of real people, not the pilot's wife or the terrorist's child or the entertainer's mistress - but of people who grow up in the dangers of life wherever and however they exist.	2000-12-28
US	51359947	R1XJT3L1HN949S	0060932201	359674409	Hitler's Niece: A Novel	Books	1	13	24	N	N	I couldn't finish this - it was too ugly	I picked up this book hesitantly and am sorry that I did.  It is not that I need to have tidy stories or a couple of identifiable protagonists, or at least a 'voice' that makes some sense.. but this was not a story about Hitler's niece (his half-sister's child), Angelika (&quot;Geli&quot;) Raubel as much as it was yet another look at how Hitler was able to seduce an entire country and them some.  I felt as if Hansen was using Geli (like Hitler, in a different way, did) - not to help us better understand this tragic, abused, oppressed spirit - but to give us yet another view of what a horribly evil power this man had.  I admit that I only finished half the book - and after I gave it up as a whole, I read the last few pages because I couldn't imagine where else it might have ended.  You know early on that this brilliant, feisty, happy spirit of a girl is going to be systematically controlled, oppressed, and that her flame will be doused in the most hideous manner - so why on earth would you willingly read 150 pages more to get to the inevitable. Ugh	2000-12-28
US	51359947	R9GS2DL779NC0	0688167713	116117487	Miracle Man: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	We're all confused by love, and the inequities of life...	Martin Kelly &quot;Kelly&quot; Minter is our protagonist in this modern tale about a young man raised in the suburbs but with an urban heart who bumbles through a strained relationship with his 'bonfire-of-the-vanities' prototype older brother, a confused relationship with an artsy older woman (met in college his freshman year) for whom he leaves school, and a largely contradictory current life.  He is a &quot;miracle man&quot;, that is, one who works for the &quot;Miracle Move&quot; moving company in NYC.  He has come to this job through his 'brother', Felix, a former Fresh Air Kid that Kelly's parents took in one year and with whom he believes he has a blood bond.  Kelly believes he exists to 'do good' and seems to have a real complex about what is right and wrong in society and how it should be corrected.  His confused solutions to the misaligned society in which he lives tend toward the illicit and illegal in a funny, twisted sort of way.  I enjoyed very much the prose of this young writer but this was not a tidy story and as such, there were times when I wanted an expansion of a situation or relationship.  Schrank is a writer who seems to have reached a young, hip audience and Kelly's desire to right societal wrongs is a good message to send - regardless of how screwy the means end up	2000-12-28
US	51359947	R2B6W5EAPVV9DI	0061097578	84313155	One Heart: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Sweet, simple, lovely tale of two sisters, two lives...	This was a sweet, sweet, simple story of two women, sisters, whose lives, while very simple, have been riddled with the kinds of pains that women have - women of any race, creed, religion, or social class.  What was so striking about this book was that the voices of the two sisters (and an occasional chapter by a third or forth party) discussed events and to some extent experiences - but both were hard pressed to really discuss feelings.  A reader who favors treacly romance novels or clever, hip dialogue will have a tough time with this novel and a tough time understanding what is really happening inside the hearts of these two sisters.  The delight of this book was that without the sloshy emotional outbreaks and conversations there is so much rich emotional movement.  Gladys and Ivy find themselves as cooks and gardeners at a children's camp - they seem middle aged before their time and they are not the kinds of camp workers you might expect.  They share the affection of sisters - raised by a father who adored one and ignored the other and a mother who was a shadowy figure - and they share a great loneliness - both have lives which are secreted away from most of the world.  It is a beautiful novel and I found it a very fulfilling read	2000-12-28
US	51359947	R33YTAODH9OCQN	0316601950	760222125	The Pilot's Wife (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Could this really happen?  Really?...	This story opens when Kathryn opens the kitchen door at 3am to a gentlemen from the pilot's union with the horrible news that her husband, Jack, has perished in an airplane explosion just off the coast of Ireland.  At first the reader is horrified but knows that there must be much more to this book than just how Kathryn grieves.  And there is something very complex and actually (in a terrible way) beautiful about Shreve's descriptions of Kathryn's grieving process - I could never imagine how it must be to lose a loved one this way, but this was extremely well written.  We discover that, as suspected, there is much more to the explosion of the plane and Kathryn and 15-year-old daughter, Mattie, are forced to deal with first, the possibility of suicide, then an incredible series of betrayals that are both a shock to the family and reader and also a bit of a reality shove for both (&quot;How well can we ever really know another person&quot;).  This was a gripper, a late night, eye-drops to keep going kind of book.  When I told my husband about this however, he was a lot more skeptical about a human being's ability to keep such a vast portion of his or her life so totally hidden from a loving spouse and family.  Perhaps this is why the book is such a gripper - because most people believe this would be an impossible scenario - but the tiny possibility that it could happen is enough to keep you reading to find out how, and why.	2000-12-28
US	51359947	R1B88SHPU2PT78	0140292608	222301968	Nathaniel's Nutmeg: Or the True and Incredible Adventures of the Spice Trader Who Changed the Course of History	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Excellently researched, fascinating history...	For someone who tends to read novels, this refreshing and fascinating book about the discovery of, exploitation of, and fighting for the East Indian spice islands was a lovely hiatus for me.  Although titled in honor of the British Nathaniel Courthope who managed to hold the Dutch off the tiny spice island of Run, the book only spends one chapter on him toward the end.  One of the reasons for this seemingly skewed portrait of Courthope and his accomplishment is that his grip on the island of Run allowed the British to eventually trade it with the Dutch for the island of Manhattan (and let's face it, how many people have heard of Run and how many have heard of Manhattan!) The bulk of the book describes in detail the numerous and various voyages, battles, and wild 'transactions' between the British, Portuguese and Dutch in their fight for possession and control of the valuable spice-producing islands (what today are part of Malaysia, Indonesia and other smaller island nations in the South Pacific).<br />In general this is a fascinating and exciting tale - made more exciting by the fact that is was real - real history.  Specifically, it was obvious that the author was British as the reader is led to believe that the Dutch and Portuguese were absolute barbarians when in fact, the British captains and crew were certainly not all tea and crumpet types either.  I also had a little trouble with the author's tendency to jump back and forth between Atlantic and Pacific voyages, and mentioning protagonists in one chapter and bringing them back in subsequent chapters - it was sometimes hard to follow who was where when.  The most impressive part of this book for me was the fact that the author must have had to read through thousands of very old diaries, letters, and other correspondance of the time to have built such a wonderfully complete tale of this period in history set in a place in the world very few people know a good deal about.  Just wonderful.	2000-09-29
US	51359947	REKRMF5ZFR9PR	0375704531	809033531	The Girl at the Lion d'Or	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Well-written, but too bleak and emotionally stunted...	Set after WWI in a small town in France, this somewhat bleak and heart-wrenching novel covers a number of months in the life of a beautiful Parisian girl who has changed her name to protect herself from the potential damage a family secret could cause her.  Anna Louvet arrives in Janvilliers to work as the waitress at the small Hotel du Lion d'Or, perhaps to escape her loneliness and hoping to find happiness (love?).  At the Hotel her supervisor is a fat, bitter matron, the chef a drunk, an errand boy a peeping tom, and the owner of the hotel a small fearful man - perhaps shelled-shocked after the war.  Desperately lonely, she falls in love with one of the hotel bar's patrons, a married man named Hartmann and the novel is primarily about their brief affair (the book ends in a strange episode in Paris just after Hartmann rejects (breaks up with) Anna.  Faulks is an exquisite writer and his prose is beautiful - the story however, is simply too bleak.  I found the characters wrapped a little too tightly, with too many emotional hang-ups (do people still used this word?) for my taste.  I found the description of Anna's 'family secret' rather fascinating and I was almost more moved by that then by the conjugal issues that Hartmann had or the personal issues that Anna seemed to be suffering.  This is perhaps due to the author's attempts to place us into the hearts and minds of the French in the 1930s - and as an American in the 2000s - perhaps I should be judging my own (in)ability to better understand these characters.  It is a beautiful quiet little novel - and extremely well written - but simply too frustrating emotionally for my liking.	2000-09-29
US	51359947	R2G3SBRRVQX9LH	0380715430	101867755	The Mother Tongue - English And How It Got That Way	Books	4	49	61	N	N	Wow! For all with a sense of humor and a love of languages	'The Mother Tongue' captivated me from the first two sentences, &quot;More than 300 million people in the world speak English and the rest, it  sometimes seems, try to.  It would be charitable to say that the results  are sometimes mixed.&quot;  Covering one of my favorite subjects, the  English language, Bryson's chapters include: Global Language, Where Words  Come From, Pronunciation, Spelling, Good and Bad English, Names, Swearing,  Wordplay, and the Future of English.  He is not an &quot;English  Teacher&quot; and he does not favor the snotty, dry William-Safire-ish  &quot;you-should-be-ashamed-for-having-split-an-infinitive&quot; type of  English language fans.  He is rather more like a bemused bystander and  observer of how English is used, misused, where funny and odd things in our  language come from, why we do or did (or don't or didn't) carry on British  spellings and pronunciations.  In total, in typical Bryson fashion, he has  taken a subject that the majority of Average Joes would find screamingly  boring and made it fascinating... and for someone like me who loves the  language to begin with - well, it's just a good, good time.	2000-09-03
US	51359947	R3OLZAEBH1PP0V	0140065504	673022087	Water Music (Penguin Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	An absolutely tremendous book.  Buy this for your friends!	Boyle, one of my favorite authors, is a black-humored satirist.  His books are usually based on historical events and people, but that's where the  reality usually ends.  Water Music is ostensibly about the  &quot;discovery&quot; of the Niger River by a Scotsman named Mungo Park in  the late 1700s.  In actuality, the book follows the parallel lives of the  fictional &quot;Ned Rise&quot;, a Dickensian sort of sleazebag and  smalltime thief, and Mungo Park, a renaissance man of sorts whose travels  and yearnings take him back and forth from Africa to Europe more regularly  than his family wishes.  The book, arranged in blocks of flashbacks and  essays rather than formal chapters, is sprinkled with all of the other  quirky historical events that occurred at the time of this story.  Boyle,  whose short fictions I have also enjoyed in The New Yorker, tells a story  that reaches all of the senses, and his books are a mess of smells, tastes,  sights, and sounds, not to mention an open door on the raw sexual and  animal side of humankind.  Like Roahl Dahl (author of such children's  stories as Willie Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, and James and the Giant  Peach), Boyle's protagonists always seem to end up where and how they  should, the bastard always seems to get what he deserves... which is rich  and satisfying for as emotional a reader as I am.  i always have 3-4 copies  on my shelves to give out to friends who haven't read it.	2000-09-03
US	51359947	R3UWW1TVS6WVV4	0684867427	491362286	Jukebox Queen Of Malta: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Love in the time of..... WWII	A wonderful, sensual, wacky love story, set in almost unbelievable  surroundings, I really liked this novel! It is the early years of WWII, and  a young corporal named Rocco Raven (who hails from the ranks of car  mechanic from Brooklyn) is sent off to Malta by accident.  He arrives in  Malta and the pilot of his plane is killed, the Germans and Italians are  bombing the hell out of everything, and he is 'saved' by a very  questionable US Army officer named Jack Fingerly who claims Rocco is there  to work the radios for US Army intelligence.  Shortly after Rocco arrives  the brothel he is living in is bombed and he is out in the streets looking  for accommodation and meets Melita.  Regardless of how many books you read  and how many protagonists you like, it will be impossible not to adore  Melita, like Rocco does.  Melita has become, like human beings do,  extremely adept at her attempts to live a 'normal' existence in an  extremely abnormal situation (the war, the constant bombing, death  everywhere, shortages of food, the utter destruction of their lives).  Her  work is to set up, repair, install, and sell the wild jukeboxes that her  cousin, Zammit makes.  In a sense, this becomes not only something to 'do'  during the days of hell, but keeps that little thread of normality in all  of their lives.  The love that grows between Rocco and Melita is sweet and  believable, in fact, even under the circumstances it makes sense and the  reader is encouraged by it. Although the ending is sad, it is really  bittersweet, and reflects a future that will be 'ok'.	2000-09-03
US	51359947	RNSRKD71PIFNM	0440235596	870989999	Tara Road (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	An interesting premise...	Picked off a rack at a British airport bookshop, Tara Road is an easy  read.  A long book, but one with an interesting premise: an impetuous house  exchange by two women (one in Connecticut and one in Ireland) helps them  both deal with the most traumatic and devastating events in their  respective lives.  Maria (Dublin) has lived a life of a dream: escaping a  mean hand-to-mouth existence of her family, marrying a beautiful eligible  bachelor, building a life - a fantastic Victorian house, and having two  lovely children.  Her life is full of friends and neighbors and her  existence is identified with the activity and interaction of these people.  We learn a good deal less about Marilyn (Connecticut) and in fact don't  meet her until the book is 2/3rd of the way through.  We do know that she  is somewhat estranged from her professor husband and that this is a result  of some recent tragedy or betrayal.  The two agree to exchange houses for  the summer with almost no idea about what they are each getting into - and  in effect - end up fitting their lives into the other's environment - with  some humorous and eye-opening results.  The book ends in a manner that left  me wishing for more development of the &quot;what happened after&quot; to  the story.	2000-09-03
US	51359947	ROBCTYF5H0ZV0	039592720X	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The thread that binds all of us... love	Oh, I disagree with those who believe this young author did not deserve  the Pulitzer for this collection.  Each story is perfectly packaged, so  clean, so neat, there are no strings left.  The reader will finish each  story without the feeling that something has been left unsaid, or  unexplained.  These tales are full of Indians who either in the States or  in India are living lives that touch others in an unusual or special way.  Each of Lahiri's protagonists is learning to live a life they may not have  expected nor wanted - but each works to their best ability to live that  life - honorably and tranquilly.  Lahiri has deftly managed to take some of  the most common experiences in life (the loss of a child, the separation of  family members, an adulterous affair, an aging parent, etc) and subtly  demonstrate that the thread that strings them all together is the search  for, need for, and healing powers of, love.  The fact that her protagonists  are of a non-WASP (American) culture makes these works only that much more  powerful because the secondary message is not only an education for the  American reader about how people of another culture 'think' - but to note  how much alike human beings are in their capacity to love and care for  others.  This was a marvelous collection and I encourage everyone to absorb  these eminently readable tales.	2000-09-03
US	51359947	R1EJEF8O7ANO9Z	0425167720	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An impressively well-woven historical mystery..	An Instance at the Fingerpost is a mystery of exceptional detail and  depth, not to mention history.  Set in the 1600s in merrie olde England, a  man of the church is brutally murdered.  A local girl, accused by some of  being some sort of witch, is hanged for the crime.  The reader knows  immediately that she has been wrongly accused but must read the story to  find out exactly how wrongly accused.  The novelty of this mystery is that  the tale is told by four different men with four completely different  perspectives.  Their own insecurities, lives, questionable pasts and  characters greatly influence how they observe the events leading up to the  crime and even those events that occur after the crime.  We read first the  impressions of an Italian merchant's son who is an amateur doctor and quite  the renaissance man.  His views shape how we ingest the following  narratives by three other men involved.  The tale is a very satisfying one  since it is such a complex weave of the struggles between the monarchists  and the republican, the church and the secular, and the enlightened and the  ignorant of the time.  A fascinating and captivating read - a great late  nighter.	2000-09-03
US	51359947	RRUY90MN81QTW	0380728273	196701038	Liberty Falling (Anna Pigeon Mysteries)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Better than your standard beach novel/mystery	In a desperate last ditch effort to buy books before boarding the plane  for another year in Amman, I picked up Liberty Falling.  It seemed like a  beach novel and next to Juneteenth and Interpreter of Maladies, it looked  out of place in my basket.  Nevada Barr is a decent story-teller though and  this was not a bad beach mystery after all! Set in Manhattan and on Liberty  and Ellis Islands, our protagonist, Anna Pigeon is a Park Service employee  from out west who is in New York to watch over the recovery of her sister,  Molly.  Easy to read, a fast-paced, no-brainer sort of book, Liberty  Falling surrounds the environs of a highly visible national park and the  scary realities of domestic (white trash) terrorism.  The story really  begins when, in Anna's presence, a young teen-aged girl falls (or is  pushed?) from the top of the Statue of Liberty. The mystery was well-woven  and I actually found Barr's descriptions of the islands off Manhattan  rather fascinating.  In the Introduction she gives us the opportunity to  learn more about and support the renovations and restorations on both  Liberty and Ellis Islands, a worth cause for our Nation's heritage.	2000-09-03
US	51359947	R1G500CPF373PE	0375702709	623656058	A Lesson Before Dying (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A beautiful, painful and powerful novel...	A beautiful, painful and powerful novel, 'A Lesson' is set in Louisiana in the 1940s, a time well before &quot;desegregation&quot;. A poor black man,  Jefferson, is sent to jail for the death of a store owner he did not kill.  The governor will decide when he will be executed (electric chair). Another  young black man in town, Grant Wiggins, the local schoolteacher, is pressed  by his grandmother and the condemned man's godmother (who raised him) to  visit the man in jail and &quot;make him a man&quot; before he dies. The  condemned man has been called a simple animal by his lawyers, a 'hog'  specifically, and his godmother refuses to let her son be executed buying  into the white man's label. The local school teacher would rather have no  part in any of it. This is an excellent book. The last section as Jefferson  and Wiggins being to communicate is extremely powerful and well done. Every  high school should make this required reading(particularly in white upper  middle class school districts). Although it is fiction, it is historically  and sociologically relevant, and so thought-provoking and heart-wrenching  all in one.	2000-09-03
US	51359947	R5Z1E5FEN2JVW	0201489376	565946021	Dreams of Trespass: Tales of a Harem Girlhood	Books	5	86	90	N	N	Oh, to trespass OUT rather than to trespass into...	Subtitled, Tales of a Harem Girlhood, this is a most fascinating tale of  the realities of a Moroccan harem.  Most Westerners take the word harem and  think Turkish harem - hundreds of women floating around large tiled rooms  waiting to serve the lord and master.  Mernissi, a western schooled  sociologist, feminist, and scholar, takes us into the life of a young girl  born into a family in Fez (in Western Morocco) in the 1940's.  Her harem is  not the rooms of I-Dream-of-Jeannie look-alikes but rather the complex  social structures of the Moroccan/Muslim family in the middle of this  century.  Her harem is the world of women, daughters, mothers, aunts, and  grandmothers who live 'inside' the urban home (but interestingly, live more  freely out on the country farm).  We learn about the feelings she and her  brother (with whom she is close) experience when they come of an age to be  separated; he relegated to the world of the men, and she to the hidden  world of the harem.  Mostly, though, this beautiful book tells the stories  of the women in Fatima's harem who have dreams and fantasies (that will  never come true), including the dreams of trespass into the outside world,  the world of men.  After having worked in Morocco in the early 1990s, I  could see that much has changed for Moroccan women, but thoughout the Arab  world there still exist plenty who still have those dreams of trespass.	2000-09-03
US	51359947	RDPABE1AYS7SE	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Stunning, wild, hungry... Kingsolver is a wonder	The author of the magnificent books, 'The Bean Trees', and 'Pigs in  Heaven', leaves her protagonists Turtle and her mother in the Southwest and  puts us in Africa, the Congo, Kilanga, in 1959.  This stunning book is the  tale of the family (of girls) of a Baptist preacher who moves them to a  Congolese village to convert the heathens.  The story is told through the  voices of the girls: Rachel, Leah, Ruth May, Adah, Rebecca, and their  mother, Orleanna Price.  Their father's ignorance and somewhat violent  tendencies, the sheer poverty and simpleness of the village, and the vast  differences in their lives for these girls from Georgia are expressed by  all of them.  Their personalities, their strengths, their needs and their  confusion are evident by their every word and their complex thoughts.  Kingsolver, who is a brilliant writer anyway, brings a fascinating  perspective to her imaginary family in the Poisonwood Bible - as she, the  daughter of public health care workers who spent time in the Congo when she  was very young, &quot;waited thirty years for the wisdom and maturity to  write this book.&quot;  A powerful story, an excellent read.	2000-09-03
US	51359947	RW0DIZWTEATTS	0375707549	361649258	Juneteenth: A Novel	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Complex, brilliant, choppy, hard to read....	From over 2000 pages of manuscript, John Callahan, the literary executer of Ralph Ellison's estate has done his best to patch together what might  have been Ellison's last great novel.  Unfortunately while some of the  prose is wild and beautiful in Ellison's way, the whole of this effort may  leave the reader with a very choppy, unhinged body of work.  The basis of  the story is a good one, young white boy (Bliss) adopted and raised by big  African American southern preacher (who is also something of a con - part  and parcel), Alonzo Z. Hickman, boy becomes first a scam artist (in the  guise of a movie maker) then a horribly racist US Senator (Allan  Sunraider).... book begins when the then old preacher comes to Washington  DC with a group of his more elderly churchgoers to visit with the Senator  ('before it's too late&quot;) and is not allowed to see him.  The group  with the preacher are in the Senate Gallery days later when a young man  near them stands up and peppers the Senator with bullets.  The body of the  book is a compilation of stream of consciousnesses, dialogues, monologues,  conversations, and described situations during Bliss's/Sunraider's life.  In Ellison style, much of the book is what is going on in the minds of the  character(s) during given situations.  So much is happening in this book -  so much of what Ellison wanted us to understand, to draws parallels with,  to see more 'racially' clearly... and I simply found it tedious to wade  through.  The extensive introduction written by Callahan at the beginning  of the book, and the very interesting &quot;notes&quot; section at the end  were a positive addition to helping me to more clearly 'hear' what was  happening in the minds of these two men during the end of Bliss's life.	2000-09-03
US	51359947	RPLI3P8JIHYZY	0684853043	954190155	The River Midnight	Books	4	15	16	N	N	You will love this book from the first story to the last.	Nattel has taken the life in a tiny Polish shtetl before the Holocaust (and one that we come to understand disappeared during that horrendous  period) and presents it to the reader through the thoughts and feelings of  the villagers, both men and women.  In the first half of the book we are  introduced to the original four wild girls, Misha, the midwife; Faygela,  the mother of many and wife of the village baker; Hannah-Leah, the  butcher's wife; and the children of Zisa-Sara who had left the shtetl with  her husband, only to die in a sweatshop fire in New York City and leave her  orphaned children to return to her native home.  The tales told through  these women and men of this imaginary town in Poland are sweet, magical,  aggravating, heart-wrenching, startling, and just about every other  adjective you can imagine.  Nattel is a marvelous story-teller and the  reader is caught up from the first page in the lives and loves of these  simple and wonderful people.  Of particular joy to me was the sprinkling of  Yiddish that Nattel uses throughout the book - it not only gives the right  flavor to the tales, but since many of the words are reminiscent of my  childhood in a Jewish-oriented community, they are like old familiar  friends.  They add a somewhat funny, appropriate, accurate and tasty spice  to the stories of the interactions, friendships, secrets and ties that  these people have with one and other.  This is a wonderful book.	2000-09-03
US	51359947	R1C1T0911V4EF8	0679756442	233345331	The Wonders of the Invisible World (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Writing's good, stories too self-indulgent...	David Gates is a staff writer for Newsweek and the author of a couple of best selling novels.  He puts together in this collection a series of  stories that reflect the kinds of conversations that go on in people's  heads when they are at the end of a personally, emotionally somewhat  traumatic life experience.  We read the pains of women coming to grips with  being trapped in bad marriages, men dealing with unfaithful wives, a gay  man who is taking care of his addict sister's boy, and in one story at the  end, an elderly man who has experienced a stroke and is so alive and  coherent internally but not externally.  None of these stories is nice,  none has a happy ending, there are no characters with whom one identifies -  or better put, with whom one might empathize or sympathize.  I had the  overwhelming feeling that every single one of these protagonists sort of  deserved what they had.... or had the means to escape their situation but  were trapped by their OWN psychological ropes.  It was a collection of  stories that I couldn't stop reading, but that each left me unhappy,  disconcerted, with sort of a low grade dull headache about the quality of  human beings in the country I call home.  The characters were, by and  large, well-educated, intellectuals, worldly, and living in and around New  York (so assumedly they had some greater vision of the world than what  might come from less urban parts of the country).  I guess the bottom line  for me was that the slight depression I felt after finishing this  collection did not encouraged me to read either of Gates' novels.	2000-09-03
US	51359947	RGJFXBJ9ZTX0X	0553375407	350438534	Ishmael:A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Think. Ponder. Worry about your own role in the world	This unique and powerful novel will change the way you view the world, the  history of humankind, and the destruction we are perpetuating on Mother  Earth.  One reviewer describes it as &quot;socially urgent&quot;, and I  would also agree that any human being of any religion, any social class,  and any race will find universal truths here - it is indeed a  &quot;spiritual adventure&quot;.  It was written to rock our world and it  is a powerful argument for the re-examination of our own behavior in terms  of the lives we lead and the environment and other species we are  destroying.  Not one for great social activism, this book still moved me in  a way that both exhilarated and depressed me, but mostly scared me.  It  left me with the feeling that I am too small and insignificant to change  the path of this primitive flying machine we call our culture.  The story  itself is a bit odd.  The narrator responds to a simple advertisement by a  teacher seeking an 'earnest pupil'.  The teacher turns out to be a great  ape (which is necessary because the human being needs to view the world and  his culture through the eyes of a non-human species).  Ishmael, the great  Ape, is indeed a powerful teacher.  I learned as much from him and through  this dialogue as any education setting in which I have ever been engaged.  Ishmael explains our cultural perspectives, our biological evolution, he  even explains the social and historical meanings in Genesis (a particularly  thought-provoking thesis). This is not a long or complicated book, but it  is one of overwhelming urgency that anyone can understand and digest.  I  urge you to read this.	2000-09-03
US	51359947	R211CPE7U0LZH6	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A well-written novel, regardless of the gender of the author	Arthur Golden's 'Geisha' was not as unusual as it might have seemed had I  come at it unaware of the potential to identify gender in literary 'voice'.  This is a beautiful fictional 'memoir' of the life of a geisha in Japan  during and after WW II.  The narrative of this woman's childhood, being  sold into geisha-dom, her elaborate training and the generally bewildering  society of the geisha was a fascinating read - especially because the  sophisticated and high-cultured environment of the geisha tea houses is a  relatively unknown subject.  The issue of the world of the geisha is a very  complex one before we can even enter into argument about the ability of a  white Protestant man to write in the voice of not only a woman, but one of  a dramatically different culture.  I may offend my fellow feminists by  saying that I believe that a well written novel (well researched, and  carefully crafted) is just that, a well-written novel, regardless of the  gender of the author.  Unlike so many novels I have read, this one did not  leave me with a lot of questions - just the wish for more.  I was sorry  that the last couple of decades of her life were hurried through and I  understood why (that would be a different book!  This one was about her  years as a geisha).  This is a sign of a good book - you want more!	2000-09-03
US	51359947	R209GUBDYRUXE5	0060987103	816790174	Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West	Books	4	222	276	N	N	Satirical, incredibly creative, a wicked read!	This most wonderful, magically inventive novel details everything you could have imagined life in Oz was like before the great tragedy of  Dorothy's arrival.  We learn about Elphaba (the little green girl who would  become the WW of the West), her physically deformed sister, the WW of the  East, Nessarose (whose ruby red shoes caused all this trouble in the first  place), Elphaba's college roommate (!), Glinda (whose bouncy blonde curls  make her unforgettable as the Good Witch of the North), etc...  One  reviewer says, &quot;Wicked is a punchy allegory that alludes to everything  from Nazi Germany to Nixon's America.&quot; Another writes, &quot;This book  is a glorious frolic, a feast of language, a study of good and evil, and a  massive history of the fabulous land of Oz.&quot;  I loved it and couldn't  help wanting more and more detail on every aspect of Maguire's tale.  Although I came to admire and understand Elphaba (he does a wonderful job  of making her the typically misunderstood villain) I was somewhat  disappointed by the chapters leading up to the end (which we all know from  watching the movie) only because they seemed rushed where I wanted to  luxuriously bathe in more.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R132DHYOMSKZI0	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Couldn't put this down - I hope he helped his soul...	John Krakauer, in what some say was a self-therapeutic exercise, writes  this gripping and terrifying story of the infamous climb to the summit of  Mount Everest in May 1996, when ten seasoned climbers and sherpas died on  the mountain. I have never understood the powerful draw that the climbing  of Mount Everest has on certain people, but this book held my attention in  an uncharacteristic way.  You know going into the reading that people will  die, but Krakauer manages to help you know, respect, and like them before  he gets you to the summit.  He also paints a strong picture of the state  one is in during a summit - oxygen-deprived brain sluggishness, the  inability to sleep, the blistering and frostbite, the incredibly slow and  painful process of moving from one base camp to the next.  You learn about  the personalities and idiosyncrasies of the different nationalities, and  you recognize and respect the fact that team work and good judgment are  crucial in any situation, but especially in life-threatening ones.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	RCAT6D7E5WJCY	0316777730	1192464	Naked	Books	4	37	41	N	N	You'll giggle, then roar, usually in public places...	The days when David Sedaris was on Morning Edition on NPR (National Public Radio), I was always late for work.  His commentaries on being a single gay  man working odd-jobs or cleaning apartments in New York City were some of  the fall-down funniest things I've ever heard.  In print, he is no less  skillful at making me weep with laughter.  Sedaris, in a raw, honest  manner, describes the events of his childhood and young adulthood - as  perceived by his incredibly humorous and rich imagination.  This collection  of essays cover everything from his mother's sharp, accurate portrayal of  his tics, his job as a mental health institution assistant, his sister's  wedding/his mother's death, to dealing with (while in high school) being  gay, and many of the funny little stories that make up being a member of a  family, any family.  His wit is dry, sharp, poignant, and philosophical all  the same time.  And after listening to his voice on those cold mornings on  the radio, I can &quot;hear&quot; him tell these tales.  What a riot!  I  have read some of the other reviewers who gave this book a one and all I  can say is that I pity the person who does not have a sense of humor  because they miss out on the absolute joy of reading anything by Sedaris -  or even better, listening to him.  wow.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R3MGPV5VB03XKV	0061099252	503656070	Family Pictures	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Beautiful, painful, a very, very good read	Set in the 40s, 50s, and 70s, this stirring novel examines the way a large  family struggles (psychologically) with the autistic child in their lives.  Different chapters have different voices; either the 3rd person narrator,  or of the fourth of six children, Nina.  Nina has the unique perspective of  being the first of the three children born after Randall, the autistic boy.  An observer and a thoughtful, clever child, Nina relates, through her  younger and older self, what happens to the family during her childhood  years and later makes some observations about 'why'.  The older children  seem lost, even as adults, and the younger ones seem to understand  implicitly that they are expected to be good, easy, healthy, and most  importantly, &quot;well&quot;.... to make up for Randall's  &quot;unwellness&quot;.  The New York Times reviewer wrote, &quot;Ms.  Miller is particularly good at dramatizing scenes of domestic chaos and the  complex interplay of adults and children... the reader is irresistibly  drawn through their pain by the author's exquisite eye for psychological  detail...&quot;  &quot;Family Pictures&quot; tells the stories of every  family - the hurts and misperceptions, the survival mechanisms that any  child builds and the beautiful crazy ways a family learns to live with and  love each other.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R2QHY39KFA7KF9	0140293248	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Such a 'real' book, and a funny one, too!	Although other critics have called this the American version of Bridget  Jones' Diary, quite frankly, if I were Melissa Bank, I'd be offended by the  comparison.  BJ Diary was contrite, surface, and meaningless - true beach  garbage reading (so bad I didn't bother to review it) .... Melissa Bank is  clever, emotional and 'real' in her prose.  Her characters are completely  believeable and the reader is easily sympathetic with the protagonist, Jane  Rosenal.  Perhaps one of the reasons I loved this book was that although I  obviously have never experienced the same lovers, friends, and family that  &quot;Jane&quot; has, I have been a single woman who has tried to  understand what it's all about.  From the observations that Jane has as a  fourteen year old with an older brother (and the variety of women he dates)  through her twenties and thirties... she manages to be glaringly honest and  quite funny at the same time.  We are easily attached to Jane and relate to  her as she deals with serious family illness, an older lover, and the slow,  painful death of her job.  One of the best things about this novel for me  is that Jane is very witty and deals with the small tragedies of life with  a certain lightheartedness.  I have often found, personally, that humor is  one of the best medicines and Melissa Bank employs it to perfection in this  novel.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R1GPIAGY41TEUP	0395901383	812566143	Echo House	Books	2	6	15	N	N	Ugh... fell short on so many scores...	Not enough history, not enough politics, not enough good solid trash, I  couldn't fully enjoy this novel any way I sliced it - but I tried.  Echo  House takes us on the journey of the imaginary Behl family, a family whose  &quot;founders&quot; (men and women) sought to prop it up so that it might  be a great political (Washington DC) family, but whose faults and struggles  lead only, in the end, to its decline.  The novel begins in the early part  of century when the reader is given to understand that Adolph Behl is  overlooked as a Vice Presidential candidate during his party's convention -  his bitterness at this turn of events spurs on first his son Axel, then  grandson, Alec.  It is these three men, their lives, and what they make of  them - that we are reading about.  For a former DC resident, this book made  for fun reading in the recognition and nostalgia of places, people, and  events mentioned in either reverence or disgust.  In general, though, the  book didn't reach me.  There is so much fiction in the reality of  Washington DC that I would prefer to read fact.  I recognize that there is  a great deal of the backstabbing, the &quot;getting off the hook&quot;, the  sleeping around, and the general lack of decorum existing in the political  world of the nation's capital.  But I also think that the fact that this  was not a great autobiography of a real political family but rather a  mediocre fictional account of an imaginary patriarchal family leaves the  reader somewhat disappointed.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	RHG53FYZSW9TT	0440235057	405352304	Be Cool	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Not as good as previous Leonard novels...	Elmore Leonard, my favorite beach novelist, has put out another Chili Palmer novel (of &quot;Get Shorty&quot; fame).  Not as either believable or  as rip-roaringly funny as Get Shorty was.... Be Cool follows Chili into the  music industry in California.  The sequel to his famous movie (called,  &quot;Get Leo&quot; in this book, although why, I don't know... we all know  it's Get Shorty) was a bust, so he is onto searching for another story-line  for another movie.  As Elmore Leonard novels go, I thought this one was  fairly weak... Leonard seemed out of his familiar surroundings and I miss,  frankly, the bare-faced shysters, the loan sharks, the semi-mafiosos and  the slick con-men of most of his other books.  This novel didn't have the  same wonderful surprising twists and turns... Chili's relationship with  Elaine seemed forced, Linda Moon started out with some promise but Leonard  is so busy trying to develop other characters (like the bizarre, huge  Samoan homosexual body-guard) that we never feel we've completely 'gotten  into' any of the characters.  I will give Leonard a lot of credit however,  for continuing to be the best at plot manipulation... how he has Chili  manage the police, the Russian mafia, the record industry mafia, and just  about everyone else so that he emerges with the usual clean nose, is a  tribute to Leonard's abilities to think and write so complexly.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	RPW1V6XQJRTUG	0671013882	174306121	The Family Markowitz	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Loved this!  Lots of silliness..	Oy vey, &quot;The Family Markowitz&quot; is what every WASP imagines every Jewish family is really like.  And perhaps it is what every Jewish family  might read and shake their heads at - for the truth captured within.  I  don't know.  I do know that I alternately grinned and groaned with every  guilt trip, every piece of cognitive dissonance, every whine, and every  solution.  Goodman writes a good story, and one that seems entirely  plausible and accurate in its dialogues, descriptions, and hang-ups.  The  reader learns all about Mama Rose, her two sons, Ed and Henry, their wives,  and Ed's children who range in type from &quot;born again orthodox  Judaism&quot; to &quot;Did I hear you say Avi's girlfriend isn't  Jewish?&quot;.  They deal with their own minds and souls while they combat  and juggle the anguish of their family members.  No one really listens, and  no one really hears, but in the end everyone seems to understand perfectly.  A fun read, and for someone who appreciates the Jewish-American world - a  hilarious open window on the community as it is portrayed.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R2NOTYTZDVV2IT	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A treasure, a tale of two traveler, if you will...	During the fall of 1998, this book was all the rage, everyone was talking about this National Book Award winning novel.  Now that the dust has  settled.... read this beautiful told set of stories. Set during the  American Civil War, this is a bittersweet story of a wounded Confederate  soldier who rises from his hospital bed near Petersburg and begins a long,  hard journey home to his love in the Southern Blue Ridge Mountains.  As a  deserter, he faces the dangers of those who might kill him, or force him  back to the fighting.  As a wounded man he faces the possibility of death  by infection and/or starvation.  The novel follows two stories: The  soldier, Inman, his trek and all he encounters on it; and Ada's (his love)  who is learning, after the death of her beloved minister father, how to  regenerate the farm and her life (with the help of a wonderful young  orphaned woman named Ruby).  The wild characters, episodes, and general  interest of those two tales keep the reader engrossed until the very end.  Unlike many love stories, there is little syrupy treacle to this tale, and  you will find yourself silently cheering on both the protagonists in their  individual &quot;journeys&quot;.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R1LGYLNQDVND38	0156007754	787923440	Blindness (Harvest Book)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Thought-provoking, brilliant, a social commentary...	The Portuguese Saramago, 1998 Nobel Prize winner in Literature, has  written a serious, philosophical and intimately fascinating book that  serves as a reflection of today's societies, the communities in which we  live.  The Boston Globe writes, &quot;Blindness is a shattering work... a  book of real stature.&quot;  The book opens with an average man at the  wheel of his average car, in what could be any average city in the  (Western) world.  He suddenly goes blind.   What happens to him, those  around him, the reactions of his family, government, and society in general  is gripping - and, feels honest.  What is so fascinating about this book is  that Saramago manages to make us think without ever making the reader feel  like he's in the depths of despair - it would have been easy to make this  such a negative commentary - and there are occasional moments when you  wonder whether the world will ever be corrected for the protagonists.  I  was moved and even provoked to consider the sociological and political  thoughts raised by this book.  I have no idea how it reads in English, but  in Spanish it was a powerful novel, and one worth the time to read.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R3L3S8LWP3CDLO	0684801051	607441444	Time and Again	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent time travel novel with fantastic twist at the end!	This was a wonderful, wonderful book, full of mystery, history, romance,  political intrigue and a fascinating premise.  Simon Morley, an  illustrator, is suddenly swept into a government program involving time  travel (it is 1970 in New York and he is scheduled to travel to 1882 also  in New York).  He is set on an interesting program of study and the time  travel is convincingly brought about when he falls asleep in an apartment  in the Dakota building on Central Park (made famous in later years when  John Lennon lives and died there) and awakens later in the evening to a  snow covered park in 1882.  Although he is somewhat smitten in 1970, he  takes up interest in a young woman in 1882 whose fiance unwittingly changes  the course of American history (in a very, very minor way). As Si's trips  back and forth become more controversial for the government unit running  this program, he begins to worry about the effects that his travel might  have on the 'future' (his present).  Finally, the government people ask him  to do something he finds morally troubling.  How he solves his dilemma is  pure genius.  You will finish the last sentence of this book, put it down  slowly with a big grin and then wish to either read it again, immediately,  or pass it along to a friend you know will love it!	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R1956QJQ0H1VLN	014011291X	181867548	In Patagonia	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A place you can't imagine...	The late Bruce Chatwin, a British travel writer, draws the reader into one  of the least known, desolate, and brutal lands in the world.  The southern  end of the Southern Cone (the piece of land that makes up the bottom half  of Chile and Argentina).  As a child, Chatwin is drawn to Patagonia by the  recollection of and fascination with a piece of furry skin his great cousin  brought back from the region.  A Great Wooley Mammoth or brontosaurus (his  grandmother told him when he was a child) which seemed to offer up the  entire pre-historic world to him.  Through his travel notes and wry  observations as well as the historical research, Chatwin gives us a picture  of this harsh land which provided refuge for outlaws and bandits (some as  famous as Butch Cassidy), and was home to the most bizarre European and  American self-imposed refugees.  His examination of Darwin's journeys and  experiences in Patagonia give the reader a window through which we can  begin to understand how the scientific world was thinking at the time. 	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R1RHA5HYX0DCI6	0156007754	787923440	Blindness (Harvest Book)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Thought-provoking, brilliant, a social commentary...	The Portuguese Saramago, 1998 Nobel Prize winner in Literature, has  written a serious, philosophical and intimately fascinating book that  serves as a reflection of today's societies, the communities in which we  live.  The Boston Globe writes, &quot;Blindness is a shattering work... a  book of real stature.&quot;  The book opens with an average man at the  wheel of his average car, in what could be any average city in the  (Western) world.  He suddenly goes blind.  What happens to him, those  around him, the reactions of his family, government, and society in general  is gripping - and, feels honest.  What is so fascinating about this book is  that Saramago manages to make us think without ever making the reader feel  like he's in the depths of despair - it would have been easy to make this  such a negative commentary - and there are occasional moments when you  wonder whether the world will ever be corrected for the protagonists.  I  was moved and even provoked to consider the sociological and political  thoughts raised by this book.  I have no idea how it reads in English, but  in Spanish it was a powerful novel, and one worth the time to read.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R3K1FO857UKQVE	0679765557	77357612	First Comes Love	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Compelling, beautifully written, a sweet tribute...	A Christmas gift, off a request list of mine (!), this book was a complete surprise to me.  I groaned after reading the back cover with the summary on  it... Winik, an occasional commentator on NPR's, &quot;All Things  Considered&quot;, married the love of her life in New Orleans a number of  years ago - an improbable match: he gay, she straight, both heavy drug  users.  As I said, I groaned reading this but then started the book.  In a  touching, powerful voice, Winik describes the falling in love, the  marriage, the birth of their two boys, and her husband's terrible death  from AIDS.  The book is inspirational and extremely well written.  Winik's  narrative and acute observations are a gift.  Early in the book she sold  me, &quot;When you think how much of a person's beauty is in their eyes, it  is astonishing how beautiful they can be with them closed in sleep, perhaps  as when you suddenly notice how talented the members of a chorus line are  once the stars of the show have left the stage.&quot;  This is a sad and  beautifully written book in tribute to a loved one.  Well worth the read. 	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R1L8C28DKCUNQQ	0684847957	933865696	Wait Till Next Year - A Memoir	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Love baseball?  Read this memoir and smile.  A lot.	Doris Kearns Goodwin was the only woman, with whom I therefore identified,  who was interviewed and gave commentary during Ken Burns' magnificent nine  &quot;inning&quot; series on PBS called, &quot;Baseball&quot;.  As a young  girl growing up in the fifties in Brooklyn, not too far from Ebbits Field,  she became a great Brooklyn Dodgers fan at a tender age.  As a way to spend  precious time with her father after his work each day on Wall Street (as a  bank examiner), she quickly moved from accurate scorekeeper to the kind of  fan who fights with her best friends about which team is better, and has to  leave the room during clinched plays because she couldn't bear to hear what  would happen next.  Not only a sweet memoir of a wonderful family, an  infirmed but steadfast mother, a loving father (plagued by the inner ghosts  of his orphan childhood), and a neighborhood of caring, somewhat  heterogeneous families and townspeople, all of whom feed into the &quot;you  can't go home again&quot; feel of this book.  A fast read, and a must for  anyone, man or woman who enjoys baseball and can appreciate the angst,  tears, elation, and madness of being a loyal ball fan.  When I asked my  mother what she thought, she exclaimed, &quot;oh yes, my god, it was like  reading about my own childhood.&quot; (Apparently the fifties where more  generally like Donna Reed than those of us who missed it, think).	2000-08-19
US	51359947	RMLFVW4WCJ3VB	0156004801	475362106	All the King's Men	Books	4	15	23	N	N	A phenomenally well written book	Although I was supposed to have read this back in high school American lit  class or maybe it was college American lit, I had not remembered it at all.  I ate through it during a couple of weekends of lazing about the patio on  sunny afternoons.  To someone with a certain interest but not fascination  with American politics, this was still an incredible piece of writing.  It  deserves to be considered one of the quintessential Great American Novels.  It was also surprisingly timeless.  Written by the Pulitzer Prize-Winner,  Warren in 1946, with the exception of occasional allusions to current  events, this novel was as relevant and readable today as it must have been  over fifty years ago.  The novel traces the rise and fall of a fictional  governor of Louisiana whose profile, most recognize, is that of the  infamous Huey Long.  I came away from it with two impressions: Robert Penn  Warren's prose is absolutely beautiful  (he was the country's first Poet  Laureate and I see clearly why), and two, I have never spoken to anyone or  read anything that would encourage me to travel to Louisiana, and this book  drove the last nail in that coffin.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R2S65OJRZS8RDL	0679777547	582743995	The Club Dumas	Books	4	1	1	N	N	What fun! Curl up and be engaged...	With high marks in reviews in The New Yorker, The New York Times, and the  Atlantic Monthly, this murder mystery is a magnificent &quot;intellectual's  'beach' novel&quot;.  Translated from Spanish, the story is generally about  the trials of a somewhat shady book 'detective', Lucas Corso, whose  specialty is in first edition, rare edition, and out of print rare books.  This being a somewhat more competitive and unethical industry than one  might think, the mystery draws the reader in be cleverly weaving a series  of literary puzzles and clues.  The thread of Dumas' famous novel,  &quot;The Three Musketeers&quot;, as well as the study of demonology trace  Corso's search for the motive and the murderer of a wealthy bibliophile.  The end is a good surprise, and I am looking forward to the next novel by  this crafty Spaniard.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R2KMSNVD4ED7MI	0140233903	781525448	Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha	Books	4	13	14	N	N	&quot;childhood lived, not just recalled...&quot;	Roddy Doyle, whose novel, &quot;The Commitments&quot; was made into the  famous hit movie in 1991, is one of those writers whose dialogue and  observations put you in the protagonist's mind.  In Paddy Clarke, that mind  is one of a ten year old working class Irish boy.  The winner of the Booker  Prize, this little novel is sometimes wildly funny, poignant, and sometimes  hard and frustrating at the same time.  The author puts us into Paddy's  head and we are given a better understanding of the thrill of the harmless  pranks, the concern of the need to &quot;fit in&quot; with the bigger boys,  the frustrations of trying to understand why your parents no longer get  along, and the gradual awareness of both self and others.  Many of the  reviews of this book repeat the theme of a &quot;childhood lived, not just  recalled&quot;, and this is very accurate.  This is not a book about an  adult remembering the days, but an adult who has captured the voice of the  child as he is experiencing his life every day. 	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R2CX70JW331EZH	0156006847	297422625	The Fencing Master: A Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	In Spanish it was an amazing mystery....	Another great mystery by the Spaniard, Perez-Reverte.  This tale, set in  the 1860s in Madrid, when Spain was in great political turmoil (monarchists  vs. republicans vs. socialists vs. anarchists), is a murder mystery.  The  protagonist is an unassuming, gallant, respectful, and somewhat naive great  fencing master/teacher.  Don Jaime Astarloa is drawn into the political  intrigue by the death (murder) of one of his clients, a well-known,  well-to-do Don Juan, who is a Marquis in fact.  One day, a beautiful young  woman approaches Jaime for fencing lessons - which he refuses (&quot;But I  cannot! She is a WOMAN!&quot;)... and from there the plot thickens. The  descriptions of Don Jaime's fencing classes, the tidbits about his past  (when fencing was an honorable means for settling a score), his manner, his  daily afternoon &quot;tertulias&quot; with the old collection of men in the  neighborhood - all make for not only a fascinating setting and set of  personages, but a great mystery as well.  I hope this book has been  translated into English - as many of Perez-Reverte's other novels have. 	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R1URUYVHD86P96	0140094296	458351721	The Songlines	Books	5	12	15	N	N	I believe in the life of the nomadic human... I am one...	Bruce Chatwin, a self-identified western &quot;nomad&quot;, spends some  time in Australia, learning about the Aboriginal &quot;songlines.&quot;  Chatwin is in the personal process of proving his life's thesis which is  something along the lines of &quot;Man was meant to be nomadic&quot;, or  &quot;it is biologically necessary for man to move&quot;.  As part of the  process, he spends some real time in the outback, travelling with the most  bizarre humans to places in the Aboriginal land and the Aboriginal mind.  The stories are dramatic, funny, and sometimes heartwrenching since they  often run across the many reasons that a once beautiful and fascinating  culture has become the alcoholic and violent bane of their neighbors'  existences.  As he relates what he is learning about how these people pass  along their lives, their histories, and their environment in the  geographically and historically accurate songs, we are shown a world of  much greater self-awareness than most westerners can comprehend.  The last  third of the book is a collection of research and materials Chatwin  collected in support of this thesis.  Some of this information is a  powerful incentive for mankind to get on the move and recognize that our  history and our biology suggest this is the only way to live.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R22R1MJPKRINMW	0060928336	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Ok, so it isn't great literature, it's a helluva lot of fun!	I was hesitant to start this book (fearful of another  southern-belle-&quot;steel magnolias&quot; type of story) but am now so  glad a friend urged me to read it.  This is a delightful story opens as a  young woman (Sidda) has managed to offend her mother with something she  reveals in a New York Times interview.  In her attempts at both  rapprochement and to help her write her newest play, she asks her mother  for an old scrap-book containing, &quot;the divine secrets of the Ya-Ya  Sisterhood&quot;.  Her mother is hesitant (and funny!) but she relents.  We  learn all about the Ya-Ya Sisterhood, made up of four very close childhood  friends who have now lived into their sixties.  Their stories and their  lives are a wonderful collection of fall-down funny, poignant, sometimes  angry, and uplifting episodes.  Mostly, though, it is the story of Vivi,  Sidda's mother.... a bright, funny, engaging woman who had some hard times,  and managed the best she could.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R3MASIYB5089X3	0679772669	474206411	In the Skin of a Lion	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Lyrical, soft prose, wonderful story-teller	Michael Ondaatje, the author of &quot;The English Patient,&quot; tells the  story of Patrick Lewis, a mid-western Canadian farmboy whose father was an  explosions specialist who worked with the loggers.  Lewis leaves the  backwoods and moves to Toronto where seems to be a stranger in his own  country.  His unusual story revolves somewhat around the building of the  waterworks in Toronto in the early half of the century, a monumental work  effort involving the building of bridges and viaducts into Lake Ontario.  His life takes many turns - some involving the disappearance of a rich man,  and the love of an actress.  He becomes a specialist with dynamite as well  and ends up in jail for an act of some defiance against an antiunionist,  anti-immigrant bureaucracy.  Ondaatje has a style of writing which is  lyrical and poetic (he is, in fact, a published poet) and one needs to be  in a quiet room, or an isolated place to absorb all of the stimulus that  this writing provides the reader.  It is a cerebral novel, and although  there is romance and violence, they are depicted in such a way that the  reader is softly eased into each circumstance with the fluidity of the  words.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R3L6NQQKMIR0MZ	067977260X	830255307	The Blue Afternoon	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Suspense, Romance, someone make this a movie!!	William Boyd, the author of &quot;Brazzaville Beach&quot; and &quot;A Good  Man in Africa&quot;, has written a tale of intrigue that takes us from the  1930s in Los Angeles to the late 1890s in the Philippines on a wild chase  for the truth about a certain doctor's past.  The tale opens with the  confrontation between a budding female architect (most unlikely in 1936,  but if you can get by that, the rest is easy) and an elderly man (the  doctor) who claims to be her father.  The story revolves around the  doctor's need to eventually get to Lisbon in his efforts to locate  someone.... during the trip to Portugal, he weaves the story for the  architect and for us.  The details of the grizzly war in the Philippines  (and the behavior of the Americans there), the languid, filthy streets and  neighborhoods of Manila, the medieval medical practices, and the complex  world and class systems of Philippine society during the turn of the  century all work together to make this a fantastic read.  With little  effort, this might even be a good movie!	2000-08-19
US	51359947	RRFBL4O2KED92	0679776338	141853780	A Schoolteacher in Old Alaska: The Story of Hannah Breece	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Interesting history, great story	Subtitled, 'The Story of Hannah Breece', Jacobs has gathered her aunt's  journals and diaries, as well as US government data relating to Alaska  during the years 1904-1917 and has written a fascinating history.  Hannah  Breece served as a US government funded public school teacher in a number  of remote sites in the then newly admitted state of Alaska.  Her students  were Aleuts, Eskimos, Russians, and children of other more obscure  nationalities and ethnicities.  Although Breece tells her own story in a  less passionate, emotional voice, the story itself, is a powerful one.  This is a biography of a single woman in her forties and fifties, thousands  of miles from her family in Pennsylvania, teaching native peoples, not only  English and math and science, but gardening, sewing, cooking, and a variety  of other more domestic skills.  Her tales of the extreme weather, the  isolation, the conflicts and discrimination between the different ethnic  groups, and of her travel, which took place from the Kodiak Islands, to  Wrangell, to Fort Yukon, are astonishing and provide an illuminating  glimpse of life in a different time, and in a far-away place.  In the last  quarter of the book the author, Breece's niece, brings together some of the  historical data that Breece leaves unmentioned in her journals.  We learn  more about the US government constraints, policies, and employees all  functioning or not at the time.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R3BCDCZ86RJO7	0393316009	392180722	Ship Fever: Stories	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A rare treasure, a wonderful writer...	This collection of short stories is amazing if not for the wonderful writing, for the subject matter and themes of the tales.  All of the tales  are set in the 1800s and involve what one reviewer aptly calls, &quot;the  great explorers of mind and geography.&quot;  Barrett blends together real  and fictional historical scientific characters in stories that examine the  hearts and minds of the scientists in the last century.  In These stories  we inspect the genetic gardens and life of Gregor Mendel as experienced by  the man who was a boy in those gardens, feel the frustrations of a young  man from Philadelphia named Alec who spends his life in the jungles of the  Amazon and the Pacific Islands collecting rare insects, birds, and other  fauna, a couple of marine biologists who fall in love during a seminar and  leave their respective long-established families to marry, and more.  The  last tale, the most powerful, is about a doctor who works on Grosse Island  in Canada, the receiving point for boatloads of Irish immigrants fleeing  famine in Ireland, and bringing horrible typhoid fever in sickening and  deadly droves.  There are thousands of books written about the hearts and  emotions of the poets, philosophers, and politicians of the nineteenth  century.  To have a glimpse, even an imaginary one, of the scientists' as  well, well, this collection is a rare treat.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	R2WWP727WLM6Q6	0679775439	730850906	The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wild, gripping, a twist in the space we call the mind...	When I was 12, Madeleine L'Engle's fantasy, &quot;A Wrinkle in Time,&quot;  effected me in a way no other book did - bridging the gap between childhood  stories and grown-up novels.  Like &quot;A Wrinkle in Time&quot; the  Wind-Up Bird Chronicle is a fantastic tale in which a certain amount of the  story occurs in places that are not of this world.  We are given to suspect  that some of these places might be in the protagonist's mind, or, they  might not be.  Set in Tokyo, this is the story of a young married man named  Toru Okada whose cat and wife both disappear (under different  circumstances).  The reader follows Toru as he searches for them both (as  well as his search for &quot;self&quot;), and in the process encounters  oddly &quot;re&quot;named mystics, an endearing if somewhat depressed  teenage neighbor girl, an old war veteran with horrible memories from  Japan's engagements in Manchuria, and a megalomaniacal brother-in-law (by  far the scariest character in anything I've read in a long time). The tale  gripped me and was a great read.  Murakami does fantastic things with both  the physical and psychological details and has a way of drawing in the  reader to feel (s)he is in Toru's head.	2000-08-19
US	51359947	RSR4FAP4XW6CZ	0156005557	179043206	Mrs. Dalloway	Books	2	12	24	N	N	heavy, tedious... relevant today?	Virginia Woolf, one of the supposedly &quot;complex&quot; writers of  modern fiction remains forever a mystery to me.  I came to this book after  reading Michael Cunningham's, &quot;The Hours,&quot; which I really loved,  and then found Woolf's to be a real disappointment.  I find it a challenge  to follow Woolf's stream-of-consciousness prose and because her plots are  rather mundane (about average people in fairly average circumstances) She  bores me.  I recognize the 'greatness' that is Virginia Woolf, and perhaps  others would think me a philistine because I cannot wax eloquent about her  ability to capture whatever it is about people that reviewers find so  captivating.  Perhaps I find that I simply can't identify with any of the  characters in her books and therefore have a hard time getting excited  about what they are thinking and feeling, let alone doing.  Mrs. Dalloway,  Clarissa, is presented in this book as the protagonist in the description  of one day (in her life).  The secondary characters, her husband, her  sister and nieces and nephews, an old flame, and a horribly mad young man  and his confused wife, are of limited interest as well.  In any case, Woolf  just is not for me... Perhaps she was all the rage in the 30s but she seems  so out of touch and not at relevant to the world in which we live and exist  today.	2000-08-05
US	51359947	RMMNZGNWIHYI9	0375700153	420726972	The Troublesome Offspring of Cardinal Guzman	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Terrific cultural fantasy!	De Bernieres, who wrote the magnificent &quot;Corelli's Mandolin&quot; (see my review below, 1/99), has hit upon another culture in another  fantasy.  The Troubling Offspring is a wild convoluted tale involving the  bizzare characters of, primarily, Cochadebajo (de los Gatos), an imaginary  Andean pueblo.  De Bernieres, who spent many years in Columbia, has managed  to build a tragicomedy involving all of those very real aspects of the  South American existence: screwy and corrupt politics, the screwy and  corrupt church, and a certain amount of mysticism.  The plot begins when  the Cardinal decides that another Inquisition is due for the heathens of  the mountain villages.  The Cochedebajeros (described as a collection of  &quot;macho philosophers, defrocked priests, and slightly reformed  prostitutes cohabiting in 'cheerful' anarchy&quot;) use some of the  strangest ammunition imaginable to fight off the holy crusaders.  The  humor in this novel strikes at every turn, with chapters entitled, for  example, &quot;In which his Excellency, President Veracruz, wins the  General Election without rigging it too much,&quot; or, &quot;In which  Felicidad's Gyrating backside Provokes Hostilities, &quot; or, &quot;An  Apocalypse of Embarrassment Strikes the City,&quot;  Oh, like much of De  Bernieres, this book is a silly romp through what might otherwise be a  serious subject.	2000-08-05
US	51359947	R15AX90L4CSXB3	0312199511	980961835	Quarantine: A Novel	Books	3	2	5	N	N	How to place this book?	My mother sent me this bizarre book as she is wont to (&quot;it looked interesting&quot; or &quot;I read this and wanted to see what you  thought&quot;), and I am still unsure how to review it.  On the back cover  it says: &quot;Quarantine is an imaginative and powerful re-telling of  Christ's fabled forty-day fast in the desert.&quot;  Well, it is  imaginative.  The actual story has a good deal more to do with the oddball  group of people that Jesus meets as he enters the desert for his forty day  fast.  We meet Jesus briefly toward the beginning of the tale and then  again at the very end, but the bulk of the story revolves around an  abusive, greedy trader and his dutiful wife, a young headstrong man from  outside of the region, an older Jewish man, a young 'barren' Jewish women,  and a strange tribal &quot;badu&quot; from the deserts of the south.  These  self-exiled oddballs confront, anger, and assist each other during their  periods of exile - Jesus playing a role only as the shadow existence of a  potential prophet (he is a mystery to them and they are alternately awed  and angered by him because he will not allow them to engage him.) If these  characters were supposed to represent the various forms the devil might  have taken in the wilderness - the various forms of evil were certainly not  all represented, in fact, with the exception of the trader, these  characters were rather benign and even 'good'.  In any case, this book  would make an excellent selection for a book club, due in large part,  because it would lend itself to a good deal of interesting discussion.	2000-08-05
US	51359947	R2387MNFHFDBM6	0385490445	107805179	Alias Grace: A Novel	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Tremendously done, carefully and beautifully written	In Canada in the early 1800s, a young woman named Grace Marks is convicted  and sentenced to life in prison for her presumed role in the murders of her  employer, Thomas Kinnear and his housekeeper (and mistress) Nancy  Montgomery.  This is a fact.  Margaret Atwood has taken the life of this  women and the facts surrounding the crime, her trial, and her imprisonment,  and has woven a tale that is incredibly captivating.  The book is rich with  quotes from the time and supposed letters written by politicians, clergy  and doctors, but the voice of the narrator, Grace herself is the most  seductive and most powerful of the writing.  The bulk of the book is  written during Grace's life imprisonment and is spurred on by the sudden  visits made to her by a Dr. Simon Jordan who is a young doctor studying  mental illnesses.  Grace claims to have no memory of the murders and once  we are inside her head, and listening to her voice, we can understand why.  The reader finds him/herself completely caught up in Grace's life and her  misfortunes and rightly recognizes that so many complex issues feed into  the perceptions by the public of this woman, and her perceptions of the  &quot;outside&quot; world.  This was an excellent read, a startling  mystery, and a generally very satisfying tale written by an author whose  prose is so far beyond what is generally offered up in mystery novels.	2000-08-05
US	51359947	RJ0235QWNPL31	1877864471	841015334	The Art of Coming Home	Books	3	51	51	N	N	A decent resource...	Of no surprise to anyone who has lived overseas and then attempted a  successful 're-entry', coming home is tremendously more stressful and  difficult than leaving home.  Storti directs a company that designs and  delivers seminars in cross-cultural adjustment, repatriation and  multicultural diversity.  Most striking about this book was how complex the  issues are surrounding the re-entry of a family or person into a society  and culture that no longer feels like his/her own.  One of the most  remarkable results of living overseas is that you come to understand your  own culture much better and more clearly then those at home who are 'in'  it.  We experience this when we come home even for brief periods - the US  is so enveloped in its high-consumerism that an outsider has difficulty  finding value in the every day.  While Americans have learned to absorb the  1000 cable channels, and 800 varieties of dog foods in the supermarket  aisles, expatriates find it highly stressful to come back to a country  where abundance, waste, and intense material comforts are the norm (after  they've lived in places where all of these things are harder to find and  they've adjusted thusly).  Storti is also careful to speak to the  frustrations that the homebound friends and family experience when their  loved ones decend upon them after what they see as tremendous opportunities  for cultural and personal growth.  I found this book a very good resource  and will likely pick it up again every time I am heading home - for a new  series of stresses - to help remember why these stresses exist and how to  soften them.	2000-08-05
US	51359947	R9478YLVB411G	0380788195	608708828	The Essential Over 35 Pregnancy Guide	Books	2	53	53	N	N	..may make you feel worse about pregnancy in later life...	After reading Natalie Angiers' book, &quot;Woman: An Intimate  Geography&quot;, this book left something to be desired.  As a primer for  women who are over 35 and either want to be or are pregnant, it was not  bad, however, for a woman who is over 35 and wants to be pregnant and has  read a good deal about her body and her possibilities, this book was sort  of more the Reader's Digest variety.  This book might well serve as a  resource for all the different tests an older mother can have to ensure  fetal health.  It also however, stressed a little too much on all the  various reasons that older women have a higher risk of  conceiving/delivering unhealthy babies.  Once I had finished it I had a  hard time convincing myself that it was 'going to be ok' to conceive at 37  and deliver a health child to term - not the sort of feeling one wants at  37 before her first child.  In any case, the key to understanding the point  of reference for this book was the fact that the author was a doctor (hence  all those tests) and had had her first child at 41.	2000-08-05
US	51359947	R2GQH3884DMCOV	044900371X	429783385	The Orchid Thief: A True Story of Beauty and Obsession (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great stuff!	Subtitled, a &quot;True Story of Beauty and Obsession&quot;, The Orchid Thief first came to me in the form of a fascinating &quot;New Yorker&quot;  article.  Orlean, hooked by a small article in the paper about the theft of  some valuable orchids from a Florida greenhouse, travels to Florida and  begins the journalistic search for the whole story.  Her protagonist is a  weird bird named John Laroche who is part-time con artist, part-time  'collector', part-time orchid grower, and full-time nutcase.  While Orlean  does a fine job of detailing the events of the orchid 'burglery', what is  even more fascinating is her take on the entire history of  orchid-collecting and growing, of the wild ecology of Florida's Fakahatchee  everglade and of a certain amount of history about the Seminole Indians.  Like so many of Elmore Leonard's or John D. MacDonald's characters, Florida  is rife with con-men, but to see them involved in cons not involving drugs,  money, or gold, was a wonderful twist.  For someone who generally enjoys a  well-written novel, I was captivated by this tale.  I agree with whoever  said, fact IS weirder than fiction - you can't make stuff like this up!	2000-08-05
US	51359947	R1Y5784HX8XE0K	0316511579	722335551	The Year 1000: What Life Was Like at the Turn of the First Millennium, An Englishman's World	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fascinating slice of history, very well done!	A fun and thoughtful piece of history, Lacey and Danziger have written a  simply fascinating book about what life was like during the turn of the  first millenium.  Focussed exclusively on the Anglo-Saxon view of the  period around the year 1000, the authors have built their book around the  &quot;Julius Work Calendar&quot;, a calendar surviving from the period.  This fascinating document made of parchment probably created by a cleric in  the Canterbury Cathedral provides both calendar calculations as well as  sketches on each frontispiece.  The religious focus of the period was on  the lives of the saints and these personages reigned supreme in their  effects on the populous as a whole.  This book surprised me because it was  not just lists of trivial little details (why we celebrate St. Valentines,  how clothes were fastened without the existence of buttons, that most of  the English cuss words come from the Dutch, etc.), but a real look at  history and the multitude of people (and not all just figures from the  church, although they made up the bulk of the biographies) who were  effecting change and helping society to continuously learn more about  itself and the possibilities it faced.  A very interesting and captivating  read.	2000-08-05
US	51359947	R5QDYZBYZOV3R	044023493X	882170667	The Sweet Forever	Books	4	5	5	N	N	At the top of his genre...	Set in Washington DC in the last 1980s, this is a very well done cops and robbers genre detective novel - but then it is much more.  Part of why I  loved this book was because it was set in a city I know so well that it was  a little like being at home.  The characters in Pelecanos' story are dirty  cops, drug runners and pushers, a couple of record store managers, a couple  of street kids (who might or might not go bad), and a backdrop of March  Madness in a city that was cheering on the magnificent Len Bias (at U  Maryland) the year he suddenly dropped dead (weak heart + cocaine) at the  tender age of 22.  The book opens with a number of interesting witnesses to  a horrible car crash on U Street in which the driver (a drug-runner, we  later learn) is decapitated, and the bag containing all his money is  snatched impetuously out of the back seat by a bystander who regrets it  later.  The tale weaves in and out of, primarily, Marcus Clay's (the record  store owner) and his buddy, Dimitri Karras's (the manager of the stores)  lives during these events.  The prose is excellent for a crime novel, and I  am eager to continue reading Pelecanos.	2000-08-05
US	51359947	R22I3FBGK4WSPZ	0316777722	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	5	66	70	N	N	Weep with laughter - it's good for your health!	My cousin, Lisa, and I share many satisfying and hilarous experiences (college roommates being just one), and for whatever reason, we are David Sedaris soulmates.  After she read my review of &quot;Naked&quot;  [...] she has been a fan.  This year for my  birthday, she paid me back ten-fold with &quot;Me Talk Pretty One  Day,&quot; the best Sedaris yet.  Most of Sedaris' work is what you might  call &quot;sort of&quot; autobiographical.  I say, &quot;sort of&quot;  because it is a little hard for me to believe all of what he writes is true  - embellished truths?  Absolutely.  From his childhood in North Carolina  (filled with wise-cracking, drinking, smoking mother, psycho younger  brother (The &quot;Rooster&quot;) and odd-ball father (to whom he dedicates  the book), we read these funny short pieces about his speech therapist (a  speech 'nazi'), his midget guitar teacher (his father had dreams of the  kids being a famous musical group), his drug abuse experiences, and  finally, a number of pieces about learning French and living in France,  where he finds himself having followed his partner.  I ended up reading  pieces of this book (while on vacation) to whichever member of my family I  could capture, and the two of us were generally reduced to tears.  Believe  it or not, the drug use pieces were a scream - incredibly pathetic but  hysterical.  The best was toward the end when Sedaris describes being in a  French subway (obviously looking very French) and listening to a loud  American man warn his wife that she should watch her pocketbook because  this shifty-looking French guy (Sedaris!) behind her was likely to snatch  her purse.  All in all, like much of what I've read of Sedaris, any author  who can reduce me to tears is a god-send.  The best physical therapy in the  world is to weep with laughter.	2000-08-05
US	51359947	R2UO4WKU9XRWV7	0385319940	180829311	Do They Hear You When You Cry	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Gripping!	Suggested by a member of my Washington DC book club, this horrific and gripping story is the true tale of a young Togolese woman who, under great  fear of the death that might occur when she is forced to undergo female  genital mutilation (FGM), flees everything she knows to escape.  Fauziya's  story begins idyllically in a village in Togo as a member of a large family  of girls whose father is not only kind but against the mutilation of his  daughters.  When the father suddenly dies, she is thrust into the hands of  a spiteful and greed aunt who wishes to marry her off to an older man (as  his third wife) and insists on the mutilation.  Fauziya flees to Germany  and is befriended by a kindly Nigerian man who tells her that he can get  her a passport, she can go to America, and seek asylum.  Fauziya's  nightmare begins upon arrival in the US where she is thrown into prison and  is eventually housed in four different prisons before a legal team of many,  Congresswomen, journalists at the New York Times, the Washington Post, the  Boston Globe and others, Oprah, and scores of activists have to fight for  over 16 months to have her released.  The tale is outrageous and thoroughly  embarrassing for any American who believes the 'system' works.  In her own  words, this true story is as desperate, moving, and gripping as any novel.	2000-08-05
US	51359947	R2JNJ5BI0NEQN7	1860460038	771315561	A Heart So White	Books	2	9	13	N	N	A bit odd....	On my DC bookclub's list this winter, I am sorry that I missed this  discussion because I found the book a bit unusual and would love to have  heard others' reactions to it.  Like with so many Spanish writers, the  voice in Marias' book is that of his protagonist and the novel takes place  primarily in his head.  An interesting story, but to read this book one  must take in every word and sometimes these words can give us more  information than is necessary.  The basic story begins shortly after Juan  marries and his wife, who, like him is also a translator, begins to build a  friendship (nothing more than that) with Juan's father, Ranz.  For Juan,  Ranz has always been somewhat larger than life, and has a secretive past  that involves among other things, a mysterious first marriage, a second  marriage that ended after the honeymoon (she committed suicide), and a  third marriage to the sister of the second wife.  With so much to hide,  Ranz is still a showy womanizer who Juan has a complicated time  understanding.  And much of the complicated time understanding his father  consists of long dialogues with himself in his head.  And a number of  interesting and brief conversations with his wife.  The book takes a  strange detour 2/3rds of the way through when Juan is in New York City on a  translation assignment at the UN, and lodges with an old friend who has  been looking for romance by video-dating.  Once this interlude ends and  Juan is back in Madrid, the story comes to its end, not exactly a surprise  ending - but rather, an ending that most readers will be happy to have.  I  was sort of happy to just to have had it end. Finally.	2000-08-05
US	51359947	R19QI3HBSCJ2RC	0452279585	173561831	Persian Nights (William Abrahams Book)	Books	2	16	19	N	N	Hideous Protagonist!	Read by my bookclub months ago, I finally picked this one off the shelf and gave it my best shot.  The protagonist, Chloe Fowler, is the wife of a  doctor who has chosen to spend the summer in Iran, working in Shiraz at the  Azami Hospital.  In London on the trip out to Iran, her husband, Jeffery,  is suddenly called back to the States to tend to a dear friend who has had  a terrible accident.  Jeffrey encourages Chloe to go ahead and he'll meet  up with her later (he never does).  Chloe's world in Iran is a  chock-a-block of doctors and their wives (some American, some Iranian, some  European) who live and work in the Azami Compound.  It is the summer of  growing discontent in Iran and the book ends with them all fleeing as the  hostages are being taken at the US Embassy in Tehran (although they are  oblivious to that fact as they line up in the airport to buy caviar).  Although this book was very well written, I had a terrible time identifying  with Chloe.  She is self-centered, unliberated, a pretty, empty-headed  thing who has very little sense of what is happening around her and seems  way too preoccupied with her various affairs to care.  Although the stage  for this novel is Iran, it could have taken place in any developing  country.  Johnson attempts to make us see that Chloe has some redeeming  qualities in her amateurish quest to better understand the Persian poets or  some of the archeological sites they all visit en (tourist) masse.  But the  result does not move me.  Chloe is still a bonehead, and has more than she  deserves in life.  I finished this book wishing that it had been written  about one or another of the more interesting, less shallow peripheral  characters in Chloe's little Iranian world.	2000-08-05
US	51359947	RRQL0MY5A0YCE	0312243022	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	4	49	54	N	N	Exquisitely done...	Not only the Pen/Faulkner award winner for fiction, this Pulitzer prize  winner is a profound and moving novel.  The story weaves together the lives  of three different women (in three different periods of time).  Each of the  women's lives is experienced by the reader for only a matter of hours on a  given day.  Virginia Woolf who is recovering outside of London after (we  assume) a nervous breakdown (or a suicide attempt?), Laura Brown who is a  suburban housewife (in the 1950s) who is beginning to realize that her  lovely home and family are stifling her, and Clarissa Vaughn who is in the  process of planning a party for a dear old friend who has just won an  important literary prize and is dying of AIDS in NYC .  The reader spends a  few hours with each of these women (alternating chapters), inside their  heads as they go about the business of living on the given afternoons the  author has chosen to share with us.  I only wish that I had read Woolf's  &quot;Mrs. Dalloway&quot; before reading this novel as it would have made  the experience of this novel that much more complete.  Cunningham's  writing is exquisite, his ability to realistically put into the voices of  these women what people actually think and muse about and are troubled by,  is simply a gift.  To quote the back cover, &quot;.. the (three) stories  become intertwined, and finally come together in an act of subtle and  haunting grace.&quot; Perfectly put.  A must read.	2000-08-05
US	51359947	R13CBG4CECEXBJ	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An adult ADDICTED...	I read 4-5 real books a month and yet, can not believe how addicting these books are.  After I put this one down and smiled I thought, &quot;Wow, the best Harry Potter yet&quot;. [....]  I spent the next night on a plane from Boston to  Frankfurt gripped to every single on of the 734 pages of this novel - 400  passengers sound asleep and only me awake with the overhead light on and  eye drops in my eyes to keep them from drying !  What on earth will we do  when Harry graduates from Hogwarts?  Rowling is just so skilled... she has  Hermione nobly fighting 'elf' discrimination, and Harry thrust into a magic  school (one from France, and another from the &quot;northern  countries&quot;) competition (the Triwizard Tournament) in which a  schoolmate actually dies for Harry!  We even have the beginnings of a  schoolboy crush for Harry (and his first 'prom-like' experience).  The book  begins with the International Quiddich Cup event (the World Cup for  Wizards) where Ron and the Weasleys take Harry and begin the years'  adventures, and ends in another of Rowling's amazing and absolutely  terrifying climax where Harry's pure goodness is enough to defeat the very  evilness of the Lord Valdemort who is growing stronger and a greater danger  with each novel.  The exquisite writing by Rowling is so subtle that there  is absolutely nothing to make any reader believe that any of this is not  real.  Even as an adult, there is that child in me who yearns to believe  that there are places like Hogwarts and people like Dumbledore in the  universe.  And of course, as an adult, in my heart I know there are!	2000-08-05
US	51359947	RP5CQP84JCEKP	1885211279	112881289	There's No Toilet Paper on the Road Less Traveled: The Best Travel Humor and Misadventure (Travelers' Tales Guides)	Books	4	34	34	N	N	There's No Toilet Paper on the Road Less Traveled	Subtitled, &quot;...on the Road Less Traveled,&quot; this collection of short stories about the trials and tribulations of the somewhat unwitting, somewhat unknowing, and very amusing writers in odd moments is indeed a  very enjoyable read.  I roared through Bill Bryson's (see RQP reviews dated  in March 1999) attempts to buy a train ticket for Stockholm, and wept  through his &quot;walk&quot; through Paris.  Dave Barry's attempts to  &quot;learn japanese in five minutes&quot; will also leave most readers in  tears of laughter.  We accompany David Foster Wallace on a Celebrity Cruise  in the Carribean and are eternally grateful that we have never and now,  WILL never take one ourselves.  We find out what Lara Naaman cooks up in  Cuzco when the boyfriend's daliances are exposed, and we find ourselves  with P.J. O'Rourke and his friend, Dorothy on a &quot;holy&quot; holiday  from hell at a religious themepark called, Heritage USA (of Jim and Tammy  Faye Baker infamy).  Called the 'best of travel humor and misadventure',  this is the type of book that should be read on metros and airplanes; where  bemused strangers, unable to contain their curiosity any further will beg  you what you are reading.  A book to be shared with friends who have  traveled and know that, while giggly funny, these stories DO happen, and  they happen to all of us!   A fun gift for a traveler as well.	2000-01-30
US	51359947	RZIFWSKUVAZ2R	0345424719	685444613	A Widow for One Year	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Irving does it again!	Ever since &quot;The World According to Garp&quot;, I have been a diehard John Irving fan.  He did NOT disappoint me with &quot;A Widow..&quot;  Young Eddie O'Hare is pushed into a summer job by his didactic, boarding  school professor of a father.  Originally intended to be a &quot;writer's  assistant&quot; for Ted Cole (a children's story writer and illustrator who  beds most of the young mothers he has model for his books), Eddie instead  finds himself hopelessly in love with, and a lover of, Ted's wife, Marion.   Marion has lived in a bit of a post-traumatic haze since the violent deaths  of her two beautiful teenaged boys, and this means she is not much of a  mother to little Ruth (born after the boys died).  This novel is primarily  told through Ruth, who becomes a great writer in her own right and  eventually loves a good man (her own father having been a decent father but  a terrible spouse).  While this all sounds somewhat dreary and even  slightly soap-operatic, it is good, funny, slightly crazy story-telling.   One of the things I so like about Irving is that he is an emotional writer,  or better said, he tells an emotional tale.  He is not one to drag you into  a story, but rather, allows his readers to make their own decisions about  why they like, dislike, favor, or root for any given character.  He builds  complex protagonists and serves them up in a complicated and intelligent  fashion.   The reader is sucked in and at the very end of the book one can  close the back cover and smile.  It works, every time.	2000-01-30
US	51359947	R1VYD6TV5ZX2AV	0441003834	52422715	The Once and Future King	Books	5	11	12	N	N	&quot;Read it and be glad you are human...&quot;	Whenever I need to truly escape, to take my heart and my mind to a far away place, I re-read the Once and Future King.  My mother, who calls this a classic, took lessons from it to teach us when we were young (about  growing up and becoming self-aware).  This is the story of the boy who will  be King Arthur, and his friend, mentor, and guide, Merlin.  The boy (called  &quot;Wart&quot;) spends a childhood of magnificent talking beasts and  fascinating creatures.  He develops with guidance into the kind and  balanced King Arthur.  It is the tale of Camelot as one might imagine it  long before Hollywood glossed it over.  T. H. White wrote this in 1939.  To  old to be relevant today?  You will find this paperback on the front  counters of every and any Border's and Barnes and Noble's you enter.  The  reviewer who mirrored closest my own feelings wrote, &quot;...a warm, sad,  glinting, rich, mystical, true and beautiful tapestry of human history and  human spirit.  Read it and laugh.  Read it and learn.  Read it and be glad  you are human.&quot;  Exactly. 	2000-01-30
US	51359947	R2TV2SLKICJGQV	067973855X	879329463	Motoring with Mohammed: Journeys to Yemen and the Red Sea	Books	4	36	37	N	N	Motoring with Mohammed	Autobiographical in nature, Eric Hansen takes us from a shipwreck on a desert island in the Red Sea in the late 1970s to a decade later in Yemen.  Prior to the shipwreck, Hansen had spent a number of years traveling the  globe and had kept journals of his travails and encounters around the  world.  He buries the journals on the island once rescue is imminent for  fear of losing them to people who might destroy them.  Ten years later, he  decides that he needs to come back to grips with that parts of him life and  returns to Yemen in the hopes of retrieving the journals.  Hansen spends  months in Yemen meeting anyone he thinks might be able to help him pull the  right strings, and write the necessary permissions to allow him to return  to the little island which is deep in militarily strategic waters.   Although we hope he eventually does retrieve the journals, the stories, the  smells, the tastes, the experiences and the wildly odd-ball people he  encounters make for an extremely engaging tale in the meantime.  He chews  qat, he visits bathouses, he climbs mountains, he suffers in the oppressive  heat of the deserts, he avoids being taken as a western hostage (a common  practice among Yemeni tribes in their negotiation efforts with the  government), and he makes some very unusual acquaintances.  \\"...in a country  where Allah was calling most of the shots, there was little sense in  distinguishing between five hours and five weeks.\\" ...we are left with very  slight feelings of desolation for the lives of the Yemeni and the state of  this country, fairly unknown to the Western world.  To anyone who has  traveling in the Middle East, or even those who have done the `young single  person in the world' trips in Asia, Africa, or Latin America, will enjoy  the spots Hansen gets into and the spirit and resourcefulness he uses to  get out of them.	2000-01-30
US	51359947	R3GN1NHQSTUO74	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Harry Potter and the Socerer's Stone	All the rage in the US and in the UK, Ms. Rowling has managed upon a theme, a protagonist, and a good old fashioned story to produce the Harry Potter books.  After reading this I now see why these books have spread  around the country like a wild fire - prompting families to turn off their  tvs and read together.   Harry Potter, our young (11) hero has the classic  fairy tale existence: the magnificent and loving (and now horribly  deceased) parents, the evil step- or &quot;non&quot; parents, the odd-ball  collection of somewhat magical friends, a world that exists as sort of a  parallel universe, and in general, a life that while unbelievably magical  still contains the usual collection of miserable pre-teen events (from  being picked on at school, to the auguish involved in being chosen for a  sports team or being accepted by a teacher or older classmate).  In this  particular book (episode?   And I openly admit I feel the urge to purchase  or somehow otherwise get ahold of the next one, yes, I'm dying to see what  happens to Harry next!) Harry discovers he is, in fact, the child of a  witch and a warlock ( very GOOD ones, of course) and is, himself magic.   His life changes dramatically (an understatement) when he finds he is  enrolled in the Hogwarts School where first year students are NOT permitted  to bring their broomsticks.  An excellently written book, Ms. Rowling is a  very talented writer - the ability to amuse, entertain, and teach children  and adults alike is found so rarely (Roahl Dahl comes to mind) that is must  be cherished.  And Harry is already becoming a part of the culture.	2000-01-30
US	51359947	R2SG34Z1TO4LC8	0395691303	475246433	Woman: An Intimate Geography	Books	5	102	113	N	N	Woman, An Intimate Geography	This is one of those books that I am considering buying for every woman I know: young, old, of all creeds, races, and religions.... even after completing it I am STILL floored by its appropriate, humorous, scientific,  lyrical, and profound words.  It is empowering without any negativism.   There is not a shread of male-bashing in this work of art.   Natalie Angier  is a science writer for the New York Times and her work is infused with  just enough science to make all the fascinating issues she covers  comprehensible to any and everyone who reads this book.   She covers the  female body like no one ever has, and I don't just mean the chapters on  breasts, the uterus, and the ovaries, but the hormones, the menstrual  cycles, nursing babies, menopause, exercise, chemistry, and the psychology  of being a woman.  I wish so much that this amazing piece of work had been  around when I was 18 and wondering what the hell was WRONG with me!  (nothing. apparently.  But who can tell an 18 year old anything.... maybe  if I could have read it.....).  Angiers carefully weaves together the  myths, the legends, the cultures, and even the misogyny from where we ALL  come and gracefully and humorously meshes them with the studies, the  sciences, the theories and the facts, and gives the reader an entire body  of work on all of the issues about ourselves we are curious about.   It is  book that teaches you something fascinating about how and why you are and  work and play and love.  One of the themes that surrepticiously repeats in  this book is the completely normal, completely natural, &quot;you are SO ok  - it's laughable to think otherwise&quot; theme.  Women are complex and  complicated creatures and we owe that to this magnificent temple called the  body and we now have all the evidence and joy in this book to know that.	2000-01-30
US	51359947	R2XDK8TWI6Q1LG	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A delicious read!	What a wonderful way to start the new year...with this magnificent story.  Set on the Greek island of Cephallonia, the reader is thrust into the 'literally' lush, emotionally rich, sharply humorous, painfully tragic  story of the beautiful Pelagia.  This spirited young woman lives with her  father, the village physician and self-appointed historian.  This is the  tale of the small town on Cephallonia, Pelagia's life, her two great loves  (one a beautiful young Greek fisherman whom the war ravages, and the other  a somewhat shy, sweet Italian army captain who plays Antonia, his  mandolin), and the Second World War in the Balkans (which include Greece).    I loved this book and will blatantly quote the Washington Post,  &quot;(It) brims with all the grand topics of literature - love and death,  heroism and skullduggery, humor and pathos, not to mention art and  religion.  A good old-fashioned novel.&quot;   This is a wonderful  curl-up-in-bed-for-a-few-hours-and-be-transported novel.	2000-01-30
US	51359947	R3MCE0GVO504OS	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	4	30	31	N	N	A delicious read!	What a wonderful way to start the new year...with this magnificent story. Set on the Greek island of Cephallonia, the reader is thrust into the 'literally' lush, emotionally rich, sharply humorous, painfully tragic  story of the beautiful Pelagia. This spirited young woman lives with her  father, the village physician and self-appointed historian. This is the  tale of the small town on Cephallonia, Pelagia's life, her two great loves  (one a beautiful young Greek fisherman whom the war ravages, and the other  a somewhat shy, sweet Italian army captain who plays Antonia, his  mandolin), and the Second World War in the Balkans (which include Greece).   I loved this book and will blatantly quote the Washington Post,  &quot;(It) brims with all the grand topics of literature - love and death,  heroism and skullduggery, humor and pathos, not to mention art and  religion. A good old-fashioned novel.&quot;  This is a wonderful  curl-up-in-bed-for-a-few-hours-and-be-transported novel.	2000-01-30
US	51359947	R3A7I8206ZBRQM	0679744479	324072310	Written on the Body	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Such love, such beautiful, sensual space...	This is one of the most powerful and magnificent love stories I have ever read.  Winterson, a young British writer, has crafted a tale in which her narrator is genderless and the lover is a married woman.  Impossible you  say?  It says on the back cover, &quot;The narrator...has neither name, nor  gender; the beloved is a married woman...as Winterson chronicles their  consuming affair, she compels us to see love stripped of cliches and  categories, as a phenomenon as visceral as blood and organs, bone and  tissue...&quot;  What makes the novel such a powerful love story is just  that.  Love without the &quot;cliches&quot;, the boundaries set by the  culture and the society.  The bigger question that is raised by this book  is one of the writing 'voice'.  Can a woman successfully write in a man's  voice?  Or a man in a woman's?  Charles Dickens was once derided by a  friend for having written &quot;Bleak House&quot; in a woman's voice.    Because my sister (an English teacher at U. Mass, Amherst) teaches a class  on Men and Women in Literature, she asked me to read this with an eye for  any written clues that might identify the narrator's gender.   Winterson is  so clever and such a brilliant writer that there were both many and none!   The reader is left not so much with the beauty of the love story or the  lyrical prose, but rather with the question of literary voices.  A  fascinating book	2000-01-30
US	51359947	RDL149QH33FD5	0385319347	882427602	Lost in Translation	Books	5	42	47	N	N	Lost in Translation	Every once and a while you pick up a book or are introduced to a book with a theme around a culture and a series of personae that you find so incredibly foreign to your own existence that you are grateful for such a  gift.   This book, while a well-written novel about a bit of a mystery, was  a magnificent albeit fictional view through the author's window into the  modern-day Chinese culture.   A culture so foreign and seemingly xenophobic  that rare glimpses through, even a westerner's eye, are a treasure.  Alice  Mannegan, whose father is a (fictional) US senator, and a bigoted and  egoltistical one at that, is a young women who has done her best to melt  unnoticed into the billions of the Chinese demographic landscape.  She  works as a translator when she needs the work, and maintains a secret  parallel life in the smoky bars of Beijing.  One day she is contracted to  work as a translator for a young American archeologist named Adam Spencer  who is in China tracking the potential whereabouts of the remains of the  &quot;Peking Man&quot; (an archeological treasure) through the letters and  writings of an 18th century French priest and his love.  This enchanting  book is at once a political thriller, an adventure, a love story, and a  novel about coming to terms with one's family, one's life, and the  decisions one makes in an effort to take the right paths toward happiness.   A must read.	2000-01-30
US	51359947	R1WYZTSNDOGVZ7	0140239375	346778627	The Discovery of Heaven	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A wonderful philosophical journey...	One of the best books I've read in many years!   Mulisch, a Dutchman, tells a fascinating, very European story about the convergence of the heavens to bring to life an unusual boy.   Conceived and raised  collectively, his parents, Max, Onno, Ada, and Sophia (you must read to  understand) are four of the more interesting personalities you'll find in  any novel.  The novel is carefully divided into four parts (from the  Beginning of the beginning to the End of the end) and is chock full of  mystery and philosophical riddles.  Most important is the  &quot;mission&quot; that this young man is destined to accomplish.  In a  series of travels and impulses, the boy, in search of his father (to some  extent) and something greater, seeks to find the realities to his  architectural and spiritual visions in places like Rome and Jerusalem.  The  Washington Post called this, &quot;One of the most entertaining and  profound philosophical novels ever written.&quot;  I highly recommend it!	2000-01-30
US	51359947	R26XYBFS2XFR7G	0395957885	164109225	Split: A Counterculture Childhood	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Split	I heard Lisa Michaels interviewed on NPR a year or so ago and was impressed by the cogency and easy spirit with which she related some of the experiences of her young life.  The child of a pair of counterculture types  in the 60s, Michaels carefully takes us on the trail her life has taken as  a direct result of her parents and who they were, and who they became.  The  picture on the front cover is of a three year old (herself) toting a  Vietnamese flag on the National Mall that appeared on the back cover of  Life magazine many years ago.  Her stikingly unapologetic tale traverses  communes, road trips, political rallies, war protests, and even a jail  visit to her father.  She manages to tell us about a fascinating childhood  while at the same time careful not to either blame, or explain her parents  and their views or lifestyles.   One reviewer puts it best, &quot;...though  it would be easy to caricature her sixties childhood or turn her parents  into cartoon radicals, ...she does a beautiful job of conjuring up her  youth in both its anomalous and ordinary detail.&quot;  This is a  well-written and thoughtful book and one that leaves the reader with a  comfortable view of what life was really like for her and her family during  a turbulent time.	2000-01-30
US	51359947	R2J1KJ627EBOXV	0553580930	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A Man in Full	As my mother says, Tom Wolfe tells a good story, and this crack at it is as 'full' a story as any of his.  The reader is met right at the outset by Cap'n Charlie Croker, a Southern good ol' boy whose real estate fumbles  have finally landed him in trouble with the banks.  The tale weaves through  Charlie's head; full of what it is to be a 'self-made' man, a second  marriage to a trophy wife half his age, the owner of a huge plantation  outside of Atlanta, a frozen-foods industry, and numerous other ventures.   His tale is enriched by the secondary stories of his first wife, a recently  laid-off freezer packer who worked at one of his plants in California and  finds himself in a penal mess, the disaster of a bank work-out manager who  plans and ties his own rise to riches through Charlie's failures, and a  host of other characters.   The plots are juicy, the characters feel real,  and the ending is a rather unexpected and hilarious turn of events that  will leave the reader satisfied.  No one gets exactly what (s)he wants or  expects, but everyone gets what is coming to them in a gratifying sort of  way.  This is the kind of book that is perfect for the beach or a long  airplane flight.	2000-01-30
