US	51353146	R2U5667KH9HSSE	0471162612	179042567	Business Statistics: A Self-Teaching Guide	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not that bad but no easy primer.	What I expected was a self-teaching guide that gradually exposes the user to statistical theory.  What I got was the standard deviation formula on page 24 and it got deeper and deeper (these are very short pages with ample white space.)  The writing isn't bad but the usage of Greek symbols is a bit overwhelming and unnecessary in this day in age.  I thought the notations and formulas using popular spreadsheet programs helpful and would have like to seen more of it.  After all business people rarely use binomial probability tables when you can get the answer in a spreadsheet table faster.   I felt that this is not really a self-teaching guide for someone like myself, the last time I had any math was in high school algebra.  Also, I could have used more work problems.<br />Overall not bad but not for the novice.	2003-12-15
US	51353146	R1IOVSGJJWBSWG	0812539265	470820419	Dream West (The American Story)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Great Tale Of Adventure	DREAM WEST captures the spirit of the turbulent mid-1800's and the nearly forgotten stories centering around  the remarkable Captain John Charles Fremont (the Pathfinder).  This was a refreshing look at one of America's great explorers who pioneered and mapped much of America's western regions.   This book includes such historic characters as: the legendary explorer Kit Carson, and Fremont's wife the famed novelist Jessie Benton Fremont, her father the famous Missouri senator Thomas Hart Benton, cameos appearances from almost every famous politician during the mid-1800 through the Civil War (Lincoln, Grant, Polk, Clay, etc.). <br />John Charles Fremont was one America's most magnetic personalities.  Just to list a few of many remarkable accomplishments, such as:<BR>* He was California's first Governor (albeit for a very short period).  <BR>* After California's statehood is approved he was the first Senator for California.<BR>* Became rich during the famed gold rush. Later lost it in a swindle.   <BR>* On the Republican ticket as an antislavery advocate he ran for President in 1956,.  In fact he becomes a perennial presidential candidate.  <BR>* He achieves the rank of major general during the Civil War where he loses most of his battles and resigns.  <BR>* Later he becomes a Governor of Arizona and passes much ground breaking legislation. <br />The only complaint I have with this book (very minor) is the author's lenient treatment of Fremont's war record.   In fact Fremont was demoted because he couldn't beat Stonewall Jackson.  He lets Fremont off rather easily.  Notwithstanding, John Charles Fremont truly was an extraordinary man.  This story captures his spirit.	2003-06-17
US	51353146	R1LLWHG9LVWFE7	0812574923	767718582	1916: A Novel of the Irish Rebellion (Irish Century)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	1916 Good Story and Solid History	1916 Good Story and Solid History<br />Some element of this book that I found helpful and interesting:<br />*   It's a novel that employs footnotes.  <BR>*   Characterizations are excellent and historically accurate<BR>*   Maps are helpful<BR>*   Listing of Characters is absolutely great.<br />I am not normally a fan of historical romance novels but 1916 was very well written.  Really the romance portion was overshadowed by the momentous events of the day. The story of the 1916 Irish Rebellion (later called the Easter Rebellion) is a thoughtful tale of a country boy caught up in Irish nationalist fervor.  Some key events led up to the Rebellion were: the forced conscription of Irish citizens for World War I, the rise of nationalism and German promises of assistance.  The author brings all of these to light as well as other elements all interwoven in her story.  Overall a good story well told.  <br />I recommend this book to readers that enjoy histories, light romance and especially Irish culture.	2003-05-27
US	51353146	R27BWLH304V6PC	0553276123	846400171	The Stainless Steel Rat for President	Books	1	0	7	N	N	Puerile	The jokes are lame and the dialog ridiculous, written as sort-of a James Bond meets Han Solo.   The plot is thin, the characters are one dimensional, obviously written as a gag or as an afterthought.    I cannot imagine anyone over the age of 15 enjoying this story.	2003-05-20
US	51353146	R22JXQ69PK13NP	0451191153	594264062	The Fountainhead	Books	3	4	14	N	N	One long Harangue	Fountainhead by Ayn Rand is verbose and preachy.   It is obvious that this novel is her attempt to convert people to her philosophy.   Essentially what you have are long speeches by main characters, which is merely her vehicle to push her systematic view of the world.  I've never heard of her philosophy before but after 700+ pages of her beating me over my head with it I don't think I'll forget about objectivism.<br />I doubt that would I ever read another book by her, even though it was a relatively fast read.	2003-05-19
US	51353146	RKZPJAEQWY397	080504695X	713778363	A Rumor of War	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Excellent Infantryman's Treatise	Philip Caputo's Rumor of War is an excellent autobiographical study of the infantry officer's plight during the Vietnam War.  What made the book especially valuable to me was Caputo's emotional narration of the horrors of war.  Basically I agree with most of the other reviews praising this book,  the only thing I would like to share are my own reflections of this era.  His story brought back unhappy memories of a war based upon body counts.  Which, as the author points out, were routinely falsified.  The devastation of war on the youth during the Vietnam years has marked our views of war and has changed us forever.  No longer will we accept a governmental decree of war without first thinking to ourselves the cost of such a conflict.<br />This is very good book and one worth reading.	2003-05-15
US	51353146	R1NUSNLF44MI4G	0425188310	991985349	Shadow Warriors: Inside The Special Forces (Commander Series)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Ask Yourself If Clancy's Name Was Not On This Book Would You	Buy It?<br />I doubt it! <br />I bought this book because Clancy had his name on the cover but don't be fooled... Shadow Warriors is not what it appears to be;  Mainly focusing upon the higher level military officers and politicians, the author(s) never gives us a chance to look behind the scenes at the covert ops and the true Shadow Warriors.   Personally I would have preferred a story about the men in the trenches. The problem with this book is the focus of the story.  It's not really about the Shadows Warriors, nor is it a biography of General Stiner.  It's hard to tell what this book is really about.  General Stiner's life story is interesting but the book never really succeeds as a biography.  We are never invited into Stiner's thought processes nor given a glimpse of his life and the decisions he faced.  <br />The one bright spot is Clancy's and Stiner's sections regarding Panama and Manuel Noriega.  They were fascinating but hardly worth the purchase price.  <br />I would recommend this book to those who enjoy high level discussions about troop movements and military policy decisions.  The history lessons about the true Shadow Warriors (i.e., the men in the field) are for the most part anecdotal and without any depth.   Also, a word of warning.  Don't read this book unless you are adept at military-speak, seemingly on every page there is a new alphabet scrambled acronym for some agency or command center.   I admit I don't enjoy stopping all the time to figure out what CINC, CENTCOM, EUCOM or TRADOC means.	2003-04-29
US	51353146	R2Z7RX4UHOMLFG	0553381393	282597222	Tides of War	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Save Your Money!	I forced myself to finish this book. I hate it when I read a book just to finish it, it's like I'm back in school. Well, that is just what I did with \\"Tides of War\\". Pressfield's stilted language is often times hard to understand. You really have to wade through the words to get to the point of what is going on. Which is disappointing because Alcibiades is one of the most fascinating characters in history. <br />One bright spot of the whole book is the Sicilian expedition chapter. Here Pressfield's writing flows evenly and the story begins to take-off. Unfortunately only to have it crash land again with Pressfield's slow story line. <br />After \\"Gates of Fire\\" this is a large disappointment.	2002-02-26
US	51353146	R3PW0NXAE1T9CK	0061098639	137888326	Sharpe's Fortress: Richard Sharpe & the Siege of Gawilghur, December 1803 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #3)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Great Fun	Ensign Richard Sharpe of British 74th Infantry struggles with his assignment.  Newly promoted as an officer to a Scottish regiment has him feeling like a fifth wheel.  When the opportunity came for reassignment, he jumped at the chance and moved to the supply division under the command of Captain Torrance.  Unbeknownst to Sharpe, Captain Torrance has enlisted the aid of Sharpe's worst enemy Sargent Obadiah Hakeswill. Now Sharpe must somehow outwit and survive  the evil clutches of Torrance and Hakeswill.  His objective is to rid the army of these two thieves and transfer to the newly formed Rifle division.  Sharpe is surrounded by crooks, feckless officers and trapped deep in enemy territory.  Things are hopeless, until...the Battle For Gawilghur.<br />I didn't want to give too much away.<br />As evidenced by \\"Sharpe's Fortress\\", Bernard Cornwell writes good books.  He is fun to read and his stores are always packed with adventure, action and intrigue.  As with all of Sharpe books they keep you interested until the end.  I have trouble putting them down.  Cornwell's style is fast paced plots and he keeps the story going, you may guess the ending but who cares, half the fun is getting there.<br />If this is your first Sharpe book don't let it be your last, Sharpe's Eagle or Sharpe's Company are among the best in the series. However, all of Cornwell's Sharpe books are good reads, you will not be disappointed.	2002-02-26
US	51353146	R2OVLD0RSBF2FA	0140243062	731618717	Sharpe's Regiment (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #17)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Sharpe Wins On The Battlefield And Back In England	The latest installment of Bernard Cornwell's Sharpe series has Major Richard Sharpe, a rifle officer of the South Essex Regiment, battling with corrupt politicians and crooked military officers.  He is sent to England to fetch fresh recruits for his division.  While at home he discovers a plot to sell his recruits to the highest bidder.  Naturally he must foil these underhanded crooks and bring back recruits to his depleted regiment back in Spain.   Surprisingly there are no battles (until the very end) , and Sharpe must outflank some crafty politicians using methods that he is not accustomed to. An interesting note is that this book includes a small view of Sharpe's personal history.<br />Bernard Cornwell writes good books. He is fun to read and his stores are always packed with adventure, action and intrigue. As with all of Sharpe books they keep you interested until the end. I have trouble putting them down. Cornwell's style is fast paced plots and snappy dialog, you may guess the ending but who cares, half the fun is getting there.<br />If this is your first Sharpe book don't let it be your last, \\"Sharpe's Eagle\\" and \\"Sharpe's Company\\" are among the best in the series. However, all of Cornwell's Sharpe books are good reads, you will not be disappointed.	2002-02-19
US	51353146	R15NNXX6MJKMD5	0446674370	280119482	The Big Nowhere	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent Crime Story	\\"The Big Nowhere\\" is a gripping novel about crime and human frailty. The characterizations are very well done.  James Ellroy is an excellent writer, he captures people so well it's like these characters were actually alive.  Also, it is interesting when he mixes fictional and non fiction characters together, at times it tough to tell who was real.  <br />The year is 1950 and location is Los Angeles California.  Ellroy's world is full of hop-heads, Jazz musicians, cops on the take, fixers, bag-men, nickel and dime crooks.   The plot is too complicated to sum up in a simple paragraph.  So suffice it to say that it is about detective trying to solve a \\"queer\\" murder, while having to contend with an unbelievable amount of baggage.  It's also about the Los Angeles D. A.'s department trying to indict the local communist party.  Additionally, it's about a hundred different things all going on at once.  The three main characters struggle with communism, homosexuality, infidelity, substance abuse, greed and love.  Ellroy creates characters that are believable and seem real.<br />Ellroy's California is the back-drop of \\"The Big Nowhere\\" but the story is so well written that this book could have taken place in a space colony on Mars and it would have worked.  I recommend this for crime buffs, nostalgia enthusiasts, or mystery readers.	2002-02-18
US	51353146	R1VIXVBB3VIWDZ	0380731797	328763020	In the Garden of Iden (A Novel of the Company, Book 1)	Books	2	4	15	N	N	This is Romance Not Science Fiction!	I have to admit that at first the story took off. The young orphan girl saved from the clutches of the evil Spanish Inquisition by the immortals, then they trained her to become an immortal, it is a great story line. The first 75 pages flew by. However, when the story got mired in pre-Elizabethan England it came to a complete halt. No story development, no character development and no crisis makes for a slow read. The plot seems to drag on and on, with no end in sight. <br />I have a feeling that the science fiction label was applied incorrectly, the story feels more like a romance. Even though the concepts of time travel and living forever are introduced early on in the book they are never developed. The main plot revolves around the protagonist Mendoza meeting and falling in love with a Calvinist-like reformer. However, even a good romance needs conflict and passion, there just isn't any. <br />It is obvious that Kage Baker is enthralled with Elizabethan England, I admit that the story has it moments. I find the language interesting and Bakers devotion to historical facts admirable. However, I find no character worth caring about. There does not appear to be anything special about the heroine Mendoza. She seems to float through the story and never develop into a strong character.<br />In the final analysis I cannot recommend this story. Which is a shame because I wanted this story to work. It's a clever concept and open to endless possibilities.	2002-02-14
US	51353146	R1MHZNPC40CI08	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Awesome Story	The story of a relatively small but deadly firefight brings to light USA's failed foreign policy regarding Africa's Somalia.   Bowden's powerful description of the battle in Mogadishu over one 24 hour period is as captivating a story as I have read in years.  Bowden tells his battle story from the viewpoints of its participants from the general down to the private. America's modernized military might was tested and it won, or did it.  <BR> <BR>I applaud Bowden's efforts, his book is excellently researched and heart rendering.  He captured both the people and the events so vividly that when you read this story you can visualize the fire-fights, the wounded, and the horror.  The fateful decisions made by the General Garrison will be assessed later by historians but Bowden leaves the success of the mission up to us to decide.<br />Since the book is labeled Military History I would like to point out that it is not strictly a text-book history.  Bowden's work breathes life into his soldiers.  This is no dry history, you hear the soldiers speak and behave as men (or as boys, as the case may be) during the attack.  This is probably one of the best facets of his book, it reads like a novel.<br />This battle will be analyzed by historians 25 - 50 years from now and they can apply the true historical impact of this attack.  Bowden makes no claim to be a historian and even shies away from assessing blame (which historians usually have no problem doing).  Bowden's  perspective is that of a journalist, a viewer of events and he makes no historical analysis but recounts the activities before, during and after October 3rd, 1993. He offers us an impartial view of this battle and for this he should be congratulated.  Faced with the number of dead and wounded USA soldiers I think it must have been tough to stand on the sidelines.<br />This is excellent book.	2002-02-11
US	51353146	R25WNTZFHJ4ZYZ	0061012645	79009532	Redcoat	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Solid Action Adventure	Not a Sharpe or Starbuck found in any page, which is an interesting change of pace for Bernard Cornwell.  Nevertheless, \\"Redcoat\\" is enjoyable historical fiction and Cornwell serves up his usual excellent effort.  The time is 1777 and the America colonists are rebelling against their British masters.  General Sir William Howe leads the British contingent in the Americas.  His task is to bring the colonies under control but the rebel-colonists have no intention of letting that happen. The General is surrounded by rebel sympathizers and spies.   One of the most interesting items about this story is that the book's vantage-point is almost entirely from that of the British (which is rare, especially in the U.S.A.)  I found this viewpoint refreshing.<br />The main character Sam Gilpin is a former stable boy turned British infantry soldier.  Sam witnesses his brother's execution by the evil Sargent Scammell, a psychotic killer, and wisely decides that soldiering is not for him. Whereupon, Sam accepts a position as a personal servant to Captain Vane who is  a social climbing career army officer. Since the British Army does not allow for soldiers to leave the service easily, Sam must somehow survive in this adverse environment.  Probably what makes this book unusual is the intercourse between civilians and the military.  In Cornwell's other stories you rarely witness discussions between soldiers and civilians.<br />Cornwell writes great fiction.  He certainly had enough material to write a few stories about the revolutionary war but chose instead to write this one book.  The way he ends the story it is clear that he intends no sequels, that is a shame because the Revolutionary War would be a natural landscape for his novels to appear.  If you like this story I recommend the Sharpe series, especially \\"Sharpe's Company\\", \\"Sharpe's Regiment\\", and \\"Sharpe's Eagle\\".  All are great books.	2002-02-11
US	51353146	R104CSM79OF5U5	0425177432	565146699	Murder at Manassas (Harrison Raines Civil War Mysteries, Book 1)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Original Setting Makes For A Solid Mystery	This is good solid mystery.  Michael Kilian paints a good picture of the times.  Everything is well researched and the novel is historically accurate.  I am no expert but I read books about the Civil War and Kilian seems to hit the mark.  The language and the tone of the story are also as I would expect of the 1860s.<br />Probably the best elements about this story are the characters.  The character of Harrison Raines, the protagonist detective,  is written well.  He behaves exactly how we would expect a gentleman from the south to behave.  The other minor characters are also well researched.  The characters we are treated to: a joke-story telling President Lincoln, a cowardly and traitorous John Wilkes Booth, a drunken photographer and oddball Matthew Brady, etc.  There is no lack of historical figures with each page.<br />However, as far as the mystery goes, I found myself wanting a little more details.  The scandal of the black-market shoes is a little convoluted and could have been more straight forward.  Additionally, since I neither live in the Beltway nor reside in Virginia, Maryland or Pennsylvania the lack of maps was my only other complaint.	2002-01-29
US	51353146	R25D0OA1VTAD8K	0399143629	699827892	Critical Mass	Books	3	0	0	N	N	I Like Any Story That Promises To Blow Up The IRS	The whole point to action adventure novels is to make them believable, exciting and fast paced. Ordinarily Martini writes a good story, his plots are paced well, and the novels have that \\"It could happen\\" type feel. When you read his other works such as \\"The List\\", \\"The Judge\\", and \\"Compelling Evidence\\", there is no doubt that Martini is a talented writer. However, \\"Critical Mass\\" does not measure up to his usual excellence.<br />Most of the characters are a little hard to believe. Jocelyn Cole, the main character, is a heroine that seems to be a jack of all trades. She is an attorney that can handle automatic weapons as well as house closings. Sometimes it's little hard to swallow, when you see the protagonist snatched up by the villains and held captive for no reason. It reminds me of James Bond movies, where the criminal mastermind has to stop from killing Bond in order to explain how his fiendish scheme works (thusly allowing Bond to escape). The other major character Gideon van Ry is created very similarly to Jocelyn Cole, his I'm a computer nerd turned commando character is hard to stomach. One minute he is typing on his keyboard and in the next minute he is Sargent Rock carrying a rifle and attacking an enemy installation. I mean come on...<br />Ok, the story is not all bad. The plot is pretty plausible. The Russians, in their decline, lose track of two nuclear weapons. The weapons wind up in the hand of an arms dealer and known scumbag and the chase is on. Also the fact that the IRS is the target for the bomb is a huge plus. However, be forewarned that Martini is setting up us for a sequel. The ending is less than satisfactory.	2002-01-23
US	51353146	RO5VZZP125TAK	0767904427	522587403	Going After Cacciato	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Challenging	Some authors write books that have plots that are straight forward, understandable and clear of purpose.  Other authors like to challenge readers.  Tim O'Brien falls in this second category.  Some words that I could use to describe this story: dark, fanciful, ambiguous, brilliant, gritty and sad.  After reflection I think that O'Brien writes his books to make us think.  Which is a welcome change.<br />Regarding the book's structure and the chapter organization.  O'Brien parses his story using three major segmentation chapter types.   The first are the summary chapters which relate the past events, primarily detailing how some characters die.  The second are the \\"Observation Post\\" chapters where Paul Berlin (the main character) stops to reflect on the past and the present.  The third are the present chapters, where the squad searches for Cacciato.  O'Brien shuffles these chapters altogether and it is up to us to figure out what is happening.  If it appears that the characters are written sketchy and hard to understand, I believe that it is because as soldiers their motivation is unclear.  However, the conclusion brings it all together but to really understand the story this book requires two reads (a minimum) and a lot of reflection. <br />At first I didn't like this book, maybe because I anticipated it was a war story...but it's not.  The more I thought about this book the more I believe that this story is about people making choices and living.   Sort of a Catch 22 for the Vietnam War.	2002-01-16
US	51353146	R1BR6GE0Z5DRMX	0140294376	891047918	Sharpe's Siege: Richard Sharpe and the Winter Campaign, 1814 (#20)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Very Good	It's 1814 and Napoleon's conquest is nearing its finish, Englishman Major Richard Sharpe is assigned to take the fortress of Teste de Buch. The fortress is deep inside enemy territory and close to the strategic city of Bordeaux. The task is to take the fortress, secure the route to Bordeaux and determine if the city will capitulate to the British. However, things do not go as planned. While taking the fortress, Shape frees an American pirate (French sympathizer) Captain Killick. Which earns him the enmity of Captain Bampfylde, the officer in charge of this mission. Later, after Sharpe leads an attack outside of Bordeaux he is abandoned by Captain Bampfylde. That leaves Sharpe stuck inside the fortress while the French lay siege. Sharpe is surrounded by Napoleon's forces and trapped deep in enemy territory. Things are hopeless, until...<br />Bernard Cornwell writes good books. He is fun to read and his stores are always packed with adventure, action and intrigue. As with all of Sharpe books they keep you interested until the end. I have trouble putting them down. Cornwell's style is fast paced plots and he keeps the story going, you may guess the ending but who cares, half the fun is getting there.<br />If this is your first Sharpe book don't let it be your last, Sharpe's Eagle or Sharpe's Company are among the best in the series. However, all of Cornwell's Sharpe books are good reads, you will not be disappointed.	2002-01-11
US	51353146	RE2NRPHNOOHJZ	037572737X	200347372	American Tabloid	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Gritty, Tough and Excellent	The plot of \\"American Tabloid\\" is too complex to sum up in one paragraph or in five paragraphs.  Basically the story is about the mob, the Kennedys, the FBI, the CIA, J. Edgar Hoover, Howard Hughes, Jimmy Hoffa and every important person in the American scene from 1958 through 1963.  Each character is carefully drawn out and excellently written.  The three main characters Kemper Boyd, Ward Littell and Pete Bondurant are fascinating...Each one has his own strengths and weaknesses, each one is amazingly realistic.   You can on and on about the plot, but the true story are the characters.  You have the squealers, the enforcers and  the mob wannabe types, everyone has an agenda and they all are on the make.<br />I admired Ellroy's style of short sentences, short paragraphs and short chapters. I enjoy smart characters and quick plots.  Furthermore, I like being challenged by a writer.  You have to pause when you read \\"American Tabloid\\", Ellroy serves up so much detail in one chapter that it would take some authors half a book and they still wouldn't cover it as well.  Each chapter moves the story forward and all of characters serve a purpose.   Rarely have I enjoyed a story more. <br />This is my first James Ellroy book and it will not be my last.  I hope they are all this good.	2002-01-08
US	51353146	R21DQRWN2U1FHD	0451458060	152947981	Down to the Sea (Lost Regiment, Book 9)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Realistic History/Science Fiction	Andrew Lawrence Keane is the President of the Republic and his society is finally advancing itself, thanks in part to its peace of 20 years.  However, the Golden Horde (Keane's arch enemies) still want war.  This is no surprise.  The Hoard's entire social, economic, and food source derives from making war on human beings.  This time it's the Kazan Tribe.  However, the Kazan's internal power structure evolved differently from the other Horde tribes.  The ruler shares his power with \\"The Shiv\\", a weird semi-religious cult of quasi-humans.  Actually the Shiv are the real rulers of the Kazan tribe, they maintain their power by keeping the Horde busy with internal squabbles and civil wars.  Thus they control the Hoard by maintaining the status quo which in turn keeps the Horde weak.  The Shiv selected Keane's Republic to be the latest patsy which the Horde can beat their war shields against.  Naturally, the dim leader of the Horde, Yasim, seems more than compliant with the Shiv's wishes.  <br />The Republic's task is to defeat their enemy while facing political problems.  Since the Republic is a democracy and people can vote to have the President removed, Keane must walk a political tightrope, he has to mobilize his people for a war while maintaining his populaces freedoms.  A significant problem is the Kazan's technology, which is superior to the Republic's. They must modernize their systems ASAP, otherwise they face doom. <br />I admit it, I like these stories.  I cannot help myself.  I am a bit of a history buff and I also enjoy science fiction/fantasy, which is exactly what these books are.  They are fairly well written and fast to read.  I think I finished \\"Down to The Sea\\" in one day.  The only criticisms I have with this book are that it lacks maps and its conclusion.   Maps would help me better visualize the geography (especially for the sea battles).  The ending is rather abrupt and needs a better reconciliation.  Based upon the ending I can only assume that William R. Forstchen, the author, intends to write a sequel to this novel.   However, I consider these to be minor problems and I recommend this and all of the Lost Regiment\\" stories, I think you will enjoy them if you like fast paced plots and good dialog.	2002-01-08
US	51353146	R3KZZ33TOQZFCB	0446524573	348043467	Getting Back	Books	5	8	11	N	N	I Could Not Put The Book Down	Its 2048 A. D. and Daniel Dyson is a bored malcontent stuck in a cubical which is buried in a company (called Microcore... what a great name)  with little future and less opportunity.  In this future United Corporations controls everyone's lives and if you don't rock the boat they let you work in one of their win-win companies.  This is OK for most people except Daniel who feels suffocated, stifled and underemployed.<br />Daniel is convinced by Raven, a beautiful mysterious woman, that he can escape this phony world and test his hidden talents in an Outback Adventure.  Australia has been quarantined off-limits for human habitation for many years due to Virus 03.1.  Nevertheless, Daniel is ready for a challenge and signs up for the vacation of his life.  Although, this is no ordinary vacation.<br />This is a vacation from hell.   Daniel and his group suffer snakebite, starvation, extreme thirst depravation and exhaustion.   Unbeknownst to Daniel, Australia has been the repository for the Morally Impaired (a.k.a. convicts).  I guess even in the future we still don't know what to do with our social misfits.  These convicts (visualize rejects from a Mad Max movie)  are interested solely in escaping the island.  The head convict aptly named \\"Warden\\" wants to get off the island and he believes that Daniel's group can supply him the means for his freedom.   Warden captures Daniel's group and make it part of his weird collective.  But Daniel and his group escape and make a mad dash to the east coast of Australia where they hope to signal an air rescue.  However....That is as much as I wish to give away at this point.  <br />There is very little about this book that I didn't like.  It had science fiction, good dialog and a George Orwell <BR>1984-like feel.  Perhaps Dietrich could have added a map to help us visualize the trek better but that is a minor complaint to a book that I enjoyed.  Dietrich's world of the future is a bleak one but that makes the adventure all that much more fun to read.  Overall a good story and well worth the price.	2002-01-02
US	51353146	R1ZO963SG06UX5	0451451376	893551116	Terrible Swift Sword (The Lost Regiment)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fun Science Fiction War Story	The Merki, evil creatures of the Horde (or Chosen People), are invading the nation of Rus. It is up to Colonel Andrew Keane of the Union's 35th Maine to lead his troops into battle and defend his new country. The Merki are enemies who consider human beings to be nothing more than cattle and/or pets, they must wipe out Keane and his Union soldiers. Interestingly enough, the Merki are also fighting for their way of life.  As twisted as it seems, you almost feel sorry for them, if the Merki were a little less gruesome you could come to admire their culture.  However, the Merki dine on human flesh and perform weird ritualistic murder/torture on their human cattle. In order to defeat the Merki, Colonel Keane must drag Rus into a mechanized 19th century industrial society. To make matters worse the Merki create their own invention, a dirigible like balloon.  This leaves the humans behind the technological curve because the Merki's airforce can perform airborne  reconnaissance and aerial bombing raids.  One of the best chapters in the book revolves around the invention of the balloon by the human population.  Forstchen adds a lot of interesting ideas to the war.  <br />\\"Terrible Swift Sword\\" by William R. Forstchen is a neat blend of science fiction, fantasy and historical fiction.  It is the 3rd installment of \\"The Lost Regiment\\" series.  Forstchen is a good writer and I like his style.  The story has a quick pace and the author uses snappy dialog to keep the plot moving.  So far I enjoy the series and I recommend the books to readers that enjoy some science fiction mixed with historical fiction.  My only criticism is that in \\"Rally Cry\\", the first \\"Lost Regiment\\" installment, Forstchen included a map which helped me visualize the battle field, however, here no map is included.	2001-12-21
US	51353146	RY6NK3CBZOAMM	0451450078	856122782	Rally Cry (Lost Regiment, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Lots of Action and Adventure	Colonel Andrew Keane of the 35th Maine leads his troops into a bizarre world.  One moment they are on a Union transport ship traveling to their next Civil War battleground and in the next, they find themselves in a world controlled by medieval Russian Boyars and ancient superstitions.  Their only salvation is their skill, their discipline and their \\"Yankee\\" know-how.  Once Colonel Keane wins the battle over the Russian noblemen, he must face a more hideous enemy, the inhuman Tugars.  The evil Tugars which consider human beings as nothing more than cattle and/or pets must wipe Keane and his brave  Union soldiers out before they can spread independence and freedom to other human communities. The Tugars must stop the Yankees from disrupting their supply of food and disrupting their way of life.  Keane intends to destroy these beings with every technological, military strategy he can muster. In order to do this, Keane converts this medieval backwards society into a mechanized 19th century industrial powerhouse that can manufacture almost anything the Union did during the Civil War.<br />\\"Rally Cry\\" by William R. Forstchen is a neat blend of science fiction, fantasy and historical fiction.  The main character is so realistic, that I wonder about the parallels between (the fictional) Colonel Andrew Keane another Civil War Union Colonel from Maine, namely Joshua L. Chamberlain.  However, this does not take anything away from the book, rather it adds to the realism of the story, which I thoroughly enjoyed.  I am an admitted Civil War buff and read everything I can get my hands on.  I enjoy characters that are clearly defined and react to situations with responses that are \\"in character\\".  Colonel Keane is the hero of the story, a brave and honorable man that regrets his battle decisions when they cost the lives of his men.<br />The story has everything a good fiction story requires, good dialog, fast pace story-line and characters that are realistic.  Even Forstchen's portrayal of the evil Tugars is apt and well done.  The Tugars are a race with their own virtues, military hierarchy, and traditions.  Unfortunately, they choose to feast on human flesh, which makes them repugnant.  It's always good writing to have antagonist that readers can love to hate.  Other than a few misspellings overall \\"Rally Cry\\" is a good story and a fun book, I recommend this story to readers that enjoy some science fiction mixed with historical fiction.	2001-12-19
US	51353146	R12J0SCEY4QDXC	0684853299	111767343	Morgan's Run	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Depressing but Interesting	Richard Morgan is a man for all seasons.  His is a master gunsmith, sawyer (wood cutter), tavern owner-operator, pipe-setter, etc... He is also a convict and in 1786 England its no fun being incarcerated in the gaols (jails).  In some sort of grand social experiment, convicts are shipped to Australia to settle the land.  Luckily Richard is included in this experiment because if it were not for him, the settlement would be a failure.  Life is harsh, the work is back breaking, and indigenous population would like nothing better than to kill these invaders.  Supplies are minimal and the settlers receive little help from mother England.  The people left to settle this harsh land are tough, rough spoken, unyielding and it is because of this they persevere and survive.<br />The main character is clearly defined and McCullough serves up one depressing characterization of this tragic figure.   In first few chapters his wife dies, his child is molested then killed, he loses his life savings and is accused of theft.  Naturally he is not guilty, however, his innocence does him no good in jail. So Richard is challenged throughout this story, he is tempted by wine, woman and song.  Not only does he forgo rum but he gives up sex and fun.  In one chapter he is described as Job and I would agree.<br />Having never read a history of Australia, I found McCullough's recount fascinating and interesting.  The tragedies the settlers had to endure are unbelievable.  I like her style and the tone of the story.  The people were rough spoken convicts and the language used reflects this style.  It was a pleasure to read this book and the pages flew by quickly. The only thing I would have liked is a hero with a lighter personality.  Richard Morgan is boorish and depressing.  Overall, I recommend \\"Morgan's Run\\" to all historical fiction buffs and action adventure seekers.	2001-12-17
US	51353146	R3MPYHW3QKQSAX	0446609404	95144783	Cradle and All	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Is This Patterson's Worse Book...Maybe	Two young girls are pregnant seemingly via Immaculate Conception, officials are brought in from Rome and from the various local dioceses to investigate. Anne Fitzgerald, a former nun turned private detective is hired to delve into the mysterious circumstances. Furthermore, mankind is plagued with all sort of disease and weird happenings: floods, droughts, etc.. The time seems ripe for the Second Coming. In order for Anne to find out what is going on she must travel all over Europe and the Eastern U.S.A. to track down what is amiss. However, it is not until the ending that we find out what is really happening and to whom. <br />I ordinarily love plots like this, the action is fast paced and the story really moves along. That being said, I guess it is no surprise that I am a fan of James Patterson. He writes the fastest paced books around. His style of short chapters and clear concise dialog keep his plots moving and the reader interested. I also like that he willing to take chances, you don't ordinarily find male authors writing female main characters. He is a good writer and his books are ordinarily excellent. However, one can only assume that he was under some sort of deadline when he wrote &quot;Cradle and All&quot;. The plot has a number of holes and some of the writing is unclear. One chapter Anne (the main character) is in France and in the next chapter she is back in U.S.A. without any explanation. Additionally, a number of times pronouns are used so extensively that I could not understand who is speaking. Another problem I had with this novel is the characterizations, most of the minor characters turned out to be shallow and thin. Only the main characters are developed and even then I wanted more, especially at the end of the book where Patterson could have finished the stories of the girls. Indeed at the end of the story they are missing, as if they dropped of the planet, perhaps Patterson is setting us up for a sequel. <br />OK, so those are the problems. Where Patterson does well is the snappy dialog and quick pace. He covers a lot of ground in this book and the page fly by quickly. Truly the book is not that bad but perhaps I wanted better because I know Patterson can deliver the goods.	2001-12-12
US	51353146	R1J7T6SLLD4YWZ	0743423801	232945442	Wild Cards (Wild Cards, Book 1) (Volume One) (v. 1)	Books	3	15	21	N	N	Perhaps For Fans of Comic Books  (really 2.5 Stars)	I am a fan of George R. R. Martin, I think he is one of the most talented writers around today.  Furthermore, Martin's \\"A Song of Ice and Fire\\" Series is a masterpiece of writing.  Additionally, I have enjoyed some of his short stories.  However, I would caution anyone about the \\"Wild Cards\\".  This is not at all like Martin's other works.  \\"Wild Cards\\"  is a single plot carried over many different short stories written by many authors.    <br />The plot is interesting and initially it sounded great.  A deadly virus infects earth after World War II and humans that are infected undergo various physiological and mental changes.  Each author brings his own style to the story and some are outstanding.  I especially enjoyed Roger Zelazny's story &quot;Ashes to Ashes&quot;.<br />However, overall I could not get into the story.  Trying to follow a single story line over many short stories is difficult enough but having to contend with different author's styles, makes it tedious.  Some of the stories are down right boring, others are hard to follow.  This is very unfortunate because I had great hopes for this book.	2001-12-04
US	51353146	RKN81TRF8OC7Q	0312974434	682384046	Game Plan	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Unique Thriller!	Hidden in an underground laboratory the military are conducting experiments on human beings.  The military  desire to enhance the human's brain capacity and intelligence.  Computer chips are used as implants to facilitate this experiment.  Unfortunately, the military-prisoners subjects chosen for the experiment are not as carefully thought out.  They escape and wreak havoc along their way to global domination.  However, one of their members dies and his corpse becomes hard evidence of their evil plot.  <br />That is as much as I should tell of the plot....I don't want to give too much away.  <br />This novel is similar in style and feel to the \\"X-Files\\" television series and yet in many ways far superior.  Most of the characters are realistic and behave as real people would and the plot is very realistic.  You get the feeling that this could have happened (well...sort of) and that's what makes it fun.  The whole concept of \\"one person against a hidden society of criminal geniuses\\" is always exciting and full of action.  <br />A note on the author's style, I found Wilson to be short on description and visual cues.  What you are left with is the plot, which is pretty darn good.  Wilson writes this taut thriller very well and leaves it up to you to fill in the gaps.  I know he couldn't have told us more about the people involved because some of them are the bad guys...Wilson wants us to figure out which side a person plays on.  Overall a good story and fun to read.	2001-12-04
US	51353146	R1EUGYMIILJAPY	0060934611	874881123	Rebel (The Starbuck Chronicles #1)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Entertaining!	For a different type of Civil War story I recommend \\"Rebel\\" by Bernard Cornwell. \\"Rebel\\" is the story of a lackluster seminary college student from Boston, MA finding his true calling in life as a soldier.  Part of a four book series set, \\"Rebel\\" is book one of the Nathaniel Starbuck Chronicles.  The story is set in ante-bellum Virginia right before the Civil War is in full swing.     <br />The hero Nate Starbuck is a northerner who decides to fight for the Confederacy.  His reasons  are not specifically stated but we can infer that he is rejecting his family's way of life and rebelling against both his nation and his repressive father.   Starbuck decides to join his friend's father's legion as a second lieutenant.  Prior to the war, Starbuck has shown little aptitude for any other trade and he hopes that soldiering is his true calling.  The battle of Manassas (or the first battle of Bull Run) is Starbuck's proving ground where he shows his budding talent.  <br />Very much like Cornwell's Sharpe series, Starbuck is a little too good to be real and that's what makes \\"Rebel\\"  so fun to read.  Interestingly enough Cornwell gives lots background about Starbuck, more than he has shared about Sharpe in any of his Sharpe stories.  I think it is unusual that Cornwell's hero Starbuck selected the South to pledge his allegiance, he is after all a northerner born and bred.  Perhaps It is Cornwell's way of illustrating how far Starbuck is rejecting his old way of life.  <br />Nevertheless, I found the novel very entertaining and recommend it to readers who look for high adventure and exciting stories.  It is hard to find fault with any novel by Bernard Cornwell.  He is an excellent story-teller and he can write.  I would recommend \\"Rebel\\" to readers who enjoy wars/battles and don't mind a few facts getting lost along the way.	2001-12-03
US	51353146	R398OEWBWEERTF	0345425480	665682184	The Last Full Measure: A Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Gripping!	\\"The Last Full Measure\\" by Jeff Shaara is the final installment in the Civil War trilogy started by Michael Shaara (Jeff's father) with the award winning book \\"The Killer Angels\\".  I know comparisons are natural especially when both father and son are writers, they both authored books about the Civil War and they both wrote their stories using very similar styles.  However, I liked all three books.  I believe that the Civil War is worthy of many views and Jeff Shaara tells his story well.<br />\\"The Last Full Measure\\" takes place during the last years of the civil war, the story begins after the horrific battle of Gettysburg.  Shaara focuses upon the war in Virginia and primarily upon the battles between General Robert E. Lee and General Ulysses S. Grant.  He tells his story through the eyes of the combatants, Grant, Lee, Chamberlain, and to a lesser extent Hancock, Stuart and Longstreet.  Grant's war by attrition and Lee's efforts to evade the Union forces are the focal points of the novel.  There is no need to concern myself with spoilers I believe everyone know the outcome...the North Wins but at a huge cost.  One of Shaara's main points is the terrible cost of the war, the ruin on the battlefield as well as in the minds of participants.   <br />I enjoyed this novel immensely.  If I had to find anything wrong with the book, I would say that the book requires more maps or better maps.  It's hard to picture a battle unless you can see a map showing all the players.  Also, the story drags a little at the end.  Shaara doesn't focus upon the Civil War reconstruction but instead gives us biographical chapters with post-war recaps.  I would consider the Civil War Reconstruction just as important as the capsule biographies of the major characters and perhaps a more important end to his story.    However, these are very minor points and I would not let them deter you.  The is a very fine novel and one worthy of your attention.	2001-11-28
US	51353146	R1W9Z43534PLSF	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Superb	It is probably one of the most emotionally draining, awe inspiring, realistic novels I have ever read.  \\"The Killer Angels\\" captured the battle of Gettysburg in all of its horror.  I just finished the book and I am finding it difficult trying to write this review.<br />This is not some dry history of another civil war battle.  This is the story of Gettysburg, the key battle of the Civil War.  The story told by Shaara is about people caught up in a battle that is reduces men to bloody statistics.  Throughout this book you sense Lee's and Longstreet's, fears, weaknesses, and most of all their sadness.  They are the killer angels sending men off to battle and perhaps to their deaths. <br />I know this is a fictional account of the battle of Gettysburg but the reader gets a gritty realistic look into the war.  The conversations between the Lee and Longstreet are just as you would expect them to be.  Shaara is a master of dialog and has excellent sense of history.  What I liked above all are his \\"voice\\" and his point of view.  He seems to inhabit his characters and breathes life into them, this is rare in historical fiction.   He also uses the vernacular of the time which adds the realism.<br />Maps were very helpful also.  It adds to the story when you are picturing a battle if you can see the topographical constraints and strategies of the officers.<br />\\"The Killer Angels\\" by Michael Shaara, won a well deserved Pulitzer Prize.   I recommend this book to everyone and if you are a history buff this is a must read.    To Summarize it in one word AWESOME.	2001-11-16
US	51353146	RD5MM6REFA69G	0380789019	511174865	Neverwhere	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fun and Unusual	\\"Neverwhere\\" by Neil Gaiman is a weird and dark fantasy that departs from today's typical sword and sorcery  novel.  What I enjoyed in Gaiman's novel is the alternate universe that he creates.  Travelling his world of tunnels and passageways you pass through areas that are full of strange creatures and even stranger people.  Lurking among the inhabitants of \\"Neverwhere\\" you have rat-speakers, angels, beasts, sewer folk and all sorts of oddities.<br />I especially enjoyed the characters Mr. Croup and Mr. Vandemar.  Sometimes you can measure a book by its antagonists, usually the better the novel the better it's evil characters.  These two were completely evil and yet hysterical.<br />The novel focuses upon Richard Mayhew an ordinary man working for an investment firm in London, UK.  He is engaged to be married to a dominating yet beautiful woman and seems destined for a quiet, ordinary life.  Until he stumbles into a situation that is beyond his control and understanding.  This ordinary person put into an extraordinary situation may seem trite and overused;  however, here it works.<br />Quite honestly I thought I was going to hate this book.  I was expecting a comic book-like quality to the writing, but I was wrong.  The writing is crisp.  The dialog interesting.   I enjoyed the atmosphere Gaiman creates and the weird people he manufactures....  In a word it's fun.<br />If fantasy is your thing and you are looking for something a little bit different I recommend \\"Neverwhere\\".	2001-11-14
US	51353146	RXQC1F6RFRGCY	0345433785	646178453	Newton's Cannon (The Age of Unreason, Book 1)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Shallow Characters Have their Moments	\\"Newton's Cannon\\" by J. Gregory Keyes is historical fantasy novel about science, inventors, and angels.  Alchemy is the new science of the day and not only does it work but it is an accepted method changing matter.  Unlike the old alchemy theories of the past (e.g. changing iron to gold,) people are able to command nature's elements.<br />The story revolves around Sir Isaac Newton's discovery of a secret material that changes the natural course of history.  Additionally, we are introduced to various mysterious devices throughout the story that are miraculous even by today's standards.  For example, there is a  special gun that shoots bullets similar to a machine gun, a communications device that can span the globe instantaneously, a drug that can make anyone invulnerable to death, etc.  However, even with these wonderful advances, most people are still fighting with swords and muskets, travelling via horse, and setting type manually.   <br />The main characters are Benjamin Franklin and Mademoiselle Adrienne.  Even though they never meet, their goals are the same...to stop a catastrophe of epic proportions.  Yes, it's that Benjamin Franklin, Keyes name drops all throughout the book.  I only wish some depth had been applied to the characters.  We really don't understand what motivates some of the minor characters, for example, Sir Isaac Newton is a complete mystery.  Another problem is that Keyes spends a lot of effort introducing us to characters that go nowhere.   Voltaire and  Blackbeard are introduced and then fade away.  I was especially disgusted by the teaser at the end of the book when he drags out Peter the Great.  The impression one receives is that Keyes is saving some description for the next book in the series.  He left a number of loose ends at the end of this book.	2001-11-09
US	51353146	R22WSDVCV9ZMZO	0345422473	947191478	Gods and Generals: A Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Excellent and yet Heartbreaking	\\"God and Generals\\" by Jeff Shaara is a terrific story of the horrors our nation underwent 140 years ago during the Civil War.  Told from the view point of Robert E. Lee, \\"Stonewall\\" Jackson, Winfield Hancock and Joshua Chamberlain, the Civil War comes alive.  Shaara knows his history and he blends it well in his story.  Not content to dwell on the battles and military actions, Shaara tries to explain each character's motivations and feelings.  This story is the predecessor to the acclaimed \\"The Killer Angels\\" written by his father Michael Shaara in 1974.<br />Looking through the eyes of each of the four major character is most gripping characteristic in Shaara's story.  Everyone of the Characters is interesting in their own right.  However, the points of view of Lee and Jackson are the focal points for most of the story.  Perhaps it is because they were both Confederacy commanders (whereas the Hancock and Chamberlain are not as prominent) or because their personalities are so unique.  For example, the cold and brusque \\"Stonewall\\" Jackson who was revered and loved by his men and could not reciprocate his feeling with the common soldier. Shaara goes into personal details about, Lee's unusual personal life with his crippled wife and estranged children, or Jackson's unrelenting duty to God.<BR> <BR>The battles come to life in Shaara's account.  Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville, Manassas and Williamsburg are battles that will live in history forever.  Lee shamed and beat every Union commander, he out-fought and out-foxed them all.  What Shaara paints is a picture of a smaller Confederacy army, ill equipped and out gunned, beating a larger, better equipped Union army.  He credits Lee and Jackson with a large portion of rebel success and given the circumstances of the battles there probably is no reason to doubt Shaara.  After reading the book I too felt that Lee was best general on the field.<br />This story is also heartbreaking when you consider the cost of this war andthe toll it took on the participants.  American was never the same after this conflict and the people who fought this war were never same as well.  I think Shaara capture's this concept.	2001-11-06
US	51353146	R30SS8WY0WCSF4	0140084738	313654234	Sharpe's Waterloo: Richard Sharpe & the Waterloo Campaign, 15 June to 18 June 1815 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #20)	Books	4	41	43	N	N	What a Great Story!	Bernard Cornwell's \\"Waterloo, Sharpe's Final Adventure\\" is fast paced fun and an action packed thriller. Here Cornwell tells the story of Waterloo; the unbelievable hubris of the commanders (both sides), the complete waste of human life and especially the fear of the average soldiers. Cornwell paints a picture of France and anti-French forces coming together to do battle, somewhat like two huge forces on a collision course. The point of view is more from the average soldier and not from the generals, so don't count on a lot of quotes from Napoleon or Wellington. <br />This time Sharpe is a lieutenant-colonel in the Belgian Light Dragoons under the command of the 23 year old Belgian Prince of Orange. Sharpe's primary function is to provide military advice to the youthful prince and try to keep himself from killing the idiotic monarch. Really he is there to collect soldier pay. Along the way Sharpe encounters a wife's betrayal, monumental military bumbling, senseless slaughter, and of course battle. For it wouldn't really be a Sharpe story without battle.<br />However, (and I cannot put my finger on it) \\"Waterloo\\" is written differently from Sharpe's other stories. Perhaps the characters are more mature or maybe it is the fact that half of the story is about the actual battle. Cornwell's Sharpe's books usually devote a chapter to the battle and not half a book. But lets face it the battle is one of the biggest in history. <br />What makes Sharpe stories so great is the writing, Cornwell knows how to convey a story and keep it interesting. I recommend this book to military history buffs, arm-chair generals, and any one else who enjoys a story told well.	2001-10-31
US	51353146	RJFJ77Q8V2QIN	0743405900	344809762	True Justice	Books	4	3	3	N	N	True Fun!	\\"True Justice\\" by Robert Tanenbaum, is another fine entry in the fantasy lawyer series featuring the husband and wife team of Butch Karp and Marlene Ciampi.<br />Butch Karp, the Assistant District Attorney of New York City, is faced with an outbreak of infanticide.  His job is to prosecute the wrong doers and bring evil people to justice.  Marlene Ciampi his wife takes a case in Delaware, but conversely her job is to defend the mother of a dead baby that is being persecuted by the Wilmington District Attorney.  Even their daughter Lucy gets into the act when her friend's family is assassinated by persons unknown.<br />What makes these stories fun to read are Tanenbaum's characterizations.  You know that these people cannot possible exist and as a matter of fact they are almost superhuman.  Karp is everyone's ideal DA, tough, fair, and honest.   Ciampi is almost superwoman she's smart, aggressive and sexy.  Lucy their daughter is a child protegee with languages, street wise and practically a saint.<br />Sometimes you get the feeling that the story is merely a way for Tanenbaum to present new problems for this gifted family to overcome.  But who cares, half the fun is getting there anyway, so close your eyes, suspend reality, sit back and relax.  Tanenbaum is a fine writer and his world of super lawyers, Karp and Ciampi  will take care of everything...with panache.<br />I recommend \\"True Justice\\", but don't take it too seriously.	2001-10-31
US	51353146	R3PTZKDJ7K0M6R	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Brilliant and Wonderful!!	\\"A Storm of Swords\\" is the third novel in the \\"A Song of Ice and Fire\\" epic by George R. R. Martin.  Primarily a novel of politics, betrayal and wars, Martin brings the fantasy genre to new highs.  I wish I can express fully the feelings I have regarding this series but suffice it to say that George R. R. Martin work is a breath of fresh air.   The epic \\"A Song of Ice and Fire\\" is head and shoulders above any other Fantasy epic/novel out there today.  Best of all it is a book for adults.  I grew up with Tolkien and read my share of Jorden, Feist, Goodkind, etc.   This story features characters acting as real people in extraordinary circumstances.  This is not the traditional fantasy's with wonder and magic, here there is sex, patricide, maiming,  incest, zombies, and more.   I will not give anything away from the story except to state that some wars are settled and some kings are crowned and/or killed.  The beauty of this series is that Martin actually kills off main characters and has the skill to keep the story going.   Things happen in his books, readers are not lead down a continual path were plots lines are kept alive for no reason other than to add fodder to an already flagging story.<br />Do yourself a favor and enjoy.   I recommend \\"A Storm of Sword\\" to all people and especially to those who are tired of the old fantasy and magic stories.	2001-10-18
US	51353146	RRBAJDE68QZJA	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	READ THIS BOOK!!!	A Clash Of Kings a novel by George R. R. Martin is another fine entry in his fantasy series called A Song Of Ice And Fire. The author, George R. R. Martin is an excellent writer and make no mistake about it, this series is the best set of novels I have read in years (in any genre).  Very rarely will I read books twicenormally most books do not warrant 2 reads.  However, these books are rich in detail and every page draws the reader further into the story. <br />Martin writes each chapter as if it were a short story and every chapter is written from a different point of view.  Even minor characters have their own stories.  His world is made up of people surviving difficult situations and each character reacts differently to circumstances  based upon their own interests.  No person is completely good or bad, Martins characters are people who make mistakes and likewise they are people who capitalize on mistakes made by others.  This makes for fascinating reading.     <br />Martins world is a place of knights and kings.  His people have different religions and different customs.  In sum his world is as real a place as you can expect of a fantasy novel. Therefore, the story is far too large to summarize here but suffice it to say that Martins world is up for grabs.  There are 6 kings/rulers fighting it out to see who will survive.  The amazing thing is some leading characters actually dont survive.  Martin has the courage and literary skill  to kill off both major and minor characters and yet the story does not suffer.  Intertwined in the political intrigue there are stories of love, stories of betrayal, stories of war.<br />If you select this book you will not be disappointed.	2001-10-10
US	51353146	R2OBDRX0ZGPRIA	0449227545	999720718	The Hammer of Eden	Books	3	2	2	N	N	It's not War And Peace but I liked it.	Ken Follett's novel &quot;The Hammer of Eden&quot; is a good novel about terrorism, love and suspense. Follett has also written some great stories, his &quot;The Pillars of The Earth&quot;, &quot;The Man From St. Petersburg&quot;, and &quot;Eye Of The Needle&quot; are all generally regarded as excellent. It could be that this story does not measure up to his earlier works but &quot;The Hammer of Eden&quot; is fun to read and fast paced. It took me 2 days to read the entire story.<br />The plot is pretty straight forward; members of a commune in California's wine country try to prevent construction of a power plant near their property. Lead by a brilliant but illiterate criminal called Priest they devise a plan to create earthquakes. The FBI is called in to stop the eco-terrorism and story takes-off. Overall the characters are standard fare and they react pretty straight forward to very unusual set of circumstances.<br />What I enjoyed the most while reading this story is the writing. Follett is a master and the novel is very well written. The action is crisp, situations and descriptions are well illustrated.<br />If you are looking for a well written fun novel, look no further.	2001-09-28
US	51353146	R33NYVRXZX0A93	0312954468	345931989	River God: A Novel of Ancient Egypt (Novels of Ancient Egypt)	Books	4	42	47	N	N	What a Great Story!	River God: A Novel of Ancient Egypt by Wilbur Smith is an exciting book of adventure, love and war.  Having never read any ancient Egyptian stories before I found River God to be a refreshing experience.   I cannot vouch for the historical accuracy used in the story but I find that to be of lesser importance than the over-all plot.  Remember this is FICTION.  As a matter of fact, its pretty good fiction.<br />Smith paints a picture of an ancient society that is fascinating.  The reader can visualize the Nile flowing in ancient Egypt and see the importance of their deities and customs.  Furthermore, justice is carried out swiftly in ancient Egypt and the punishment is usually not pretty. People are routinely executed for misdeeds.  As the reader is drawn into Smiths world you feel that you were part of the scenery.  This is where Smith excels.  This is my first book by Smith but it will not be my last.<br />The storys main character and narrator is the eunuch slave Taita. I will not give away the whole storybut in nut shell Taita helps his mistress the fair Lady Lostris maintain an illicit love affair with Tanus, a General in the Pharaohs army.  During the course of the story Taita is beaten, starved and nearly killed by a host of enemies.   Taitas old owner the evil and twisted Lord Intef (the Pharaohs Grand Vizier), desires to rule the empire.  It becomes Taitas job to foil his old boss and struggle to remain alive.<br />Only a few times did the story lose itself.  Taita is truly a Renaissance man (or person), in the book he invents a toilet, concocts a home pregnancy kit and creates penicillin-like drugs. He is a virtuoso singer, painter and writes books.  He is an accomplished spy-master and maintains his own informer network.  Additionally, he was awarded the Gold of Praise which is highest award given to any Egyptian citizen (even though he is a slave.)  I can go on and on but you can get the picture. He was so perfect that while I was reading the story I sometimes I pitied his enemies.  However, this is a minor complaint to an otherwise great story and fun read.	2001-09-26
US	51353146	R1CIHC44HKW22O	0060932287	649372279	Sharpe's Battle: Richard Sharpe and the Battle of Fuentes de Onoro, May 1811	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great Fun!	Bernard Cornwell's \\"Sharpe's Battle\\" is another fine entry in the Sharpe series.  As with all of Cornwell's Sharpe books there are loads of action and excitement.  \\"Battle\\"  was written during the BBC series 1995 and is even dedicated to Sean Bean, the actor who played Sharpe.  <br />It is Spain 1811 the British are trying to maintain their foothold in the Iberian Peninsula.  Sharpe gets his company lost in the foothills and stumbles across a town that was wiped up by the French.  Sharpe orders the execution of two French soldiers thus earning the enmity of the ruthless French Brigadier General Loup (the Wolf).  Thus begins a story that includes characters such as: the evil spy-master Major Ducos, the hysterical ruminations of Wagon Master (General) Runciman, the tragic drunken Irish Lord Kiely, the impotent partisan El Castrador (that's right Castrador).  Can you imagine a better cast of characters.  What fun!<br />I disagree with some of the other reviews and found \\"Sharpe's Battle\\" great.  I would recommend this story to anyone, especially Sharpe fans.	2001-09-21
US	51353146	R6LCJDU0MX2F4	0345427513	221309303	Gone for Soldiers: A Novel of the Mexican War	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting and Fascinating	If you are looking for a historical novel that is fun to read and exciting I recommend \\"Gone For Soldiers\\". I have never read any of Shaara's other books and stumbled across this novel at a discount store and thought why not.  Furthermore, I am a relative novice to the American - Mexican War histories.  Well I was surprisingly pleased.  The novel is well written and I was hooked.  It is fascinating to read Shaara's interpretation of the war and the personalities involved.  I have to admit that initially I thought that the story would be tedious but I was pleased that it turned out to be interesting.<br />The major characters are brought to life carefully so that General Scott, Captain Robert E. Lee and Mexican dictator Santa Anna are well represented.  Each chapter changes the story's point of view and is titled with the character who is narrating.  Usually the point of view is a major character (Scott, Lee or Anna) but minor characters are given their own chapters as well.  General William Worth, Lieutenant James Longstreet, Lieutenant  Thomas Jackson and Lieutenant Ulysses S. Grant are some of the author's most exciting chapters and characters.  The only complaint that I have is that Lee is not all that interesting of a person.  However, other characters make up for that.  <br />The action was exciting and fun to read.  The battles of Cerro Gordo, Churubusco and the capture of Mexico City are great stories.   Shaara excels in his description of battle strategies, troop movement and 19th century military tactics.  Even his description of the war's aftermath was interesting.  The peace process and US policy towards Mexico was informative.  Shaara's point that General Scott was offered dictatorship over Mexico illustrates the differences between the two countries.   All in all a very good book. And I would recommend this novel to anyone.<br />Since this my first Shaara novel I will probably read some his other books.	2001-09-18
US	51353146	R3JX675UVSHF4O	0140104305	795384724	Sharpe's Enemy: Richard Sharpe & the Defense of Portugal, Christmas 1812 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #15)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	What a Great Story!	Sharpes Enemy by Bernard Cornwell is probably the best in the Sharpe series.  There is nothing lacking in the story: evil and corrupt enemies, damsels in distress,  heart breaking pathos and (of course) hard-fought battles. The year is 1812 and its Christmas time in Spain.  Joining Sharpe in Enemy is his trusty companion Sargent Harper, the battle scared Captain Sweet William and the often drunk Lieutenant Harry Price.  Typical of Cornwells Sharpe adventures are the enemy forces that will stop at nothing in their efforts to defeat the brave British soldiers.  <br />Major Sharpe is given the task of liberating two officers wives and capturing the forces of Pot-au-Feu, a Marshal in the renegade army.  During his ransom negotiations with the deserters, he encounters his old nemesis the evil and twisted Obadiah Hakeswill.  Other enemies include: Sharpes commanding officer the incompetent and cowardly Colonel Sir Augustus and the evil and conniving French Major Ducos.  One of the refreshing themes in this story is that the enemies are not just the French army but the people that are supposedly his allies. Surprisingly enough during a temporary treaty he gains some respect for a few of the Napoleons officers.  Throughout the course of the story he commands a battalion, defends a castle and wins countless battles.<br />For people that have never read a Sharpe book I would like to quote a couple of sentences as an example of Cornwells style.<br />Charge!<BR>This was the way to end it!  Sword in hand and charging, and even though the battle was lost he could still make these <BR>French regret the day they had come to the Gateway of God.  He could put fear in them for their next battle, he would make them remember this place with sourness.<br />This is Cornwells gritty style.  Sharpe is a soldiers soldier and hero for all ages.	2001-09-12
US	51353146	R2AY1798S71KBB	0061091944	832267718	Stonehenge	Books	2	10	15	N	N	I Think I Have Found Cornwell's Worst Novel.	&quot;Stonehenge&quot; by Bernard Cornwell is a complete departure for the author of the Sharpe series. Frankly, I didn't like it very much. Maybe it was the pacing, which was slow or the character development, which was shallow. I never got the sense or feel of the times. Luckily for me I picked the book up at a bargain otherwise I would have felt cheated. I finished it only because Cornwell is one of my favorite authors. <br />Perhaps it is because I couldn't identify with the main characters. The lead characters are brothers, namely Saban, Camaban and Lengar. Saban the protagonist, is the perpetually young warrior, hero and builder. Saban's crippled brother Camaban, is the tribe's sorcerer, kook and priest. Saban's oldest brother Lengar, is the obligatory antagonist, villain and tribal chieftain. None of these characters are interesting, all of them seem merely to be props to tell the story. I can accept this type of fiction by some other authors, especially when used in short stories but here it seems shallow. I don't think Cornwell allowed the readers a chance to get into the heads of these people.<br />I think most people knew it took Britain's Neolithic inhabitants years and years to build Stonehenge. After all they barely seem to master fire, metal tools and planting crops. But I thought the story could have been much more interesting and exciting. Cornwell paints a picture of people who were brutal war-like savages. They applied blue tattoo scars to their bodies to signify the number of people they have killed. Ordinarily Cornwell is the perfect author for this type of job, all of his other works are great but he never carries it off.	2001-09-06
US	51353146	R28PLILRNF0YK	014029435X	707862354	Sharpe's Honor (Richard Sharpe's Adventures, No. 7)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Good Story and Loads of Fun	Sharpe's Honor by Bernard Cornwell is an exciting adventure story. Please note spoilers as follows. Major Sharpe is challenged to a duel by a Spanish General and is nearly hanged for his trouble. Later in order to exonerate himself he attempts to capture his accuser, the conniving and beautiful La Puta Durada. La Puta Durada (one of the neatest names in fiction) which means the golden whore, can vouch for Sharpe's innocence. Along the way he meets a psychopathic partisan named The Slaughterer, a malignant priest who wants to restore the inquisition, and Major Ducos a French spy-master. Even though there was plenty of adventure, I missed some of the minor characters, Major Hogan and Sargent Harper are practically no shows. I admit that this story does not measure up to the others in the Sharpe series. \\"Sharpe's Company\\", \\"Sharpe's Gold\\" or \\"Sharpe's Rifles\\" are better entries in the series and more exciting to read. However, \\"Sharpe's Honor\\" has its moments. The battle scenes are very realistic and surprisingly enough we are treated to more battle strategy. Normally in Cornwell's Sharpe books the point of view is from the main character Sharpe, but this time we are given several points of view of the battle and one of them (refreshingly enough) from the French side. But I must warn you the battle happens very late in the story and by then most of the plot lines have been resolved. One interesting item in the story is the prevailing theme that Sharpe should have no honor. Primarily because Sharpe came up from the ranks (starting out as a private and working up to a commissioned officer). The only one who thought Sharpe had any honor is Sharpe himself. \\"Sharpe's Honor\\" is fun and a good read.	2001-08-27
US	51353146	RDCU9UCW8SFO1	0140294333	803394553	Sharpe's Sword: Richard Sharpe and the Salamanca Campaign, June and July 1812 (#14)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Sharpe does it again	Why did I like this book? <BR>*Excellent adventure <BR>*Thrilling intrigue <BR>*Exciting military strategies <BR>*Extraordinary camaraderie <BR>*Vicious villains <br />I don't know pick one...I enjoyed Bernard Cornwell's \\"Sharpe's Sword\\". The year is 1812, the location is Salamanca Spain. It is here that General Wellington must battle the French forces for the Western portion of the peninsula. Wellington's goal is to defeat the French, Sharpe's goal is to survive and be with his men. Captain Sharpe finds himself surrounded by spies and treachery, friends become enemies and enemies become friends. Sharpe can only place his trust in his faithful chosen men or in the doughty Major Hogan. Everyone else is suspect. Unlike the other Sharpe books, \\"Sword\\" doesn't spend a lot of time with the battles. Sharpe is drawn into a different battle field... the battle field of palace intrigue. Before long Sharpe is sharing the company of the beautiful... and mysterious La Marquesa. He battles the evil Colonel Leroux. Leroux's claim to fame is his usage of torture and cruelty. Along the way Sharpe is shot, lied to and very nearly stabbed by the same sword he covets. <br />I started with the PBS/BBS series, graduated to the audio tapes and now have read most of the novels. I wholeheartedly endorse the Sharpe series. It's great entertainment.	2001-08-24
US	51353146	R1ABEYZSTMIKT6	0140243054	806837296	Sharpe's Gold	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Good Story and Lots of Fun	Sharpe's Gold by Bernard Cornwell is an exciting adventure yarn about greed, guts and duty. This time the British army is defeated and General Wellington fears that his forces are being pushed out of the peninsula. In order for Wellington to continue the war he needs money and lots of it. There is gold in some remote Spanish village and once Wellington hears of it, he MUST have it. And who do you think the General would give this important assignment to...none other than Captain Sharpe (naturally). Spain may be lost to the French but there is one thing the British forces have that France does not and that is SHARPE. If there is one thing Sharpe hates is losing. So you know he will do what ever it takes to win. Cornwell's blending of fact and fiction are amazing. You get the sense of being there, you visualize the battles and the scenes at the fortress of Almeida are spellbinding. Of course Sharpe gets the gold, receives the praise (reluctantly) from Wellington and he even gets the pretty girl in the end. My only problem with the story is the ending. What Sharpe must do to get the gold is too ruthless to be imagined. If this is your first Sharpe book don't let it be your last, Sharpe's Rifles or Sharpe's Company are better. However, all of Cornwell's Sharpe books are good reads, you will not be disappointed.	2001-08-24
US	51353146	R1FKWHVIEZLFDG	0140070230	899749823	Sharpe's Company	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Fast Paced Action/Adventure	What are some of the reasons why you read books? <br />* Do you like adventure?   * Do you like romance?   * Do you like action?   * Do you like history?  <br />If you answered yes to the above then you will enjoy Sharpe's Company.  I started reading these books and I find myself having a hard time putting them down.  <br />Sharpe's Company by Bernard Cornwell is an exciting rip-roaring adventure addition to the Sharpe series.  You can see Bernard Cornwell's extensive research come to life page after page.  The setting is 1812 and the British forces are re-grouping in Spain to repulse the dreaded French juggernaut led by Napoleon.  Sharpe's challenge is to defeat the French forces at Badajoz, retain his rank and marry the girl of his desires. All of Sharpe's soldiers are in attendance and ready for battle.  <br />Sharpe lost his rank due to a clerical error in England and is now a mere lieutenant.  He answers to a commanding officer that has never led a battle command.  The captain who replaced him is a well meaning light-weight who lets his sergeant give the orders.  <br />Additionally, the evil Sergeant Hakeswell is back in Sharpe's life again and up to his old tricks.  I don't think I can imagine of a better villain than Hakeswell.  He is ugly, twisted and thoroughly evil.  There are no redeeming values to his character.  He wants to kill Sharpe and ruin his career.  Even Sharpe's friends are in danger from this psychopath.<br />Where Cornwell shines is the description of the battle.  He paints a picture of the siege at Badajoz so realistic that you visualize the battle and all of its horrors.  His details are fascinating.  For example, the advantages and disadvantages of a rifle and a musket, the uses of cannon to reduce castle walls to rubble and the siege warfare techniques of 1800s. <br />I wholeheartedly endorse this book.	2001-08-23
US	51353146	R1FTEN8A83I0RH	0449000729	767740511	Sarum: The Novel of England	Books	2	20	26	N	N	1000 pages of the shallowest people you never want to meet.	Sarum : The Novel of England by Edward Rutherfurd is a historical-fictional account of the life and times of Salisbury England and the people who lived there. He begins his tale with pre-historic man and continues to modern day. Each chapter is a small snippet of history with characters from that time. <br />Essentially he follows 4 to 5 families through history and we see how they develop. How each family grows and changes depends upon the circumstances of time. An example of this is Osmund Mason a talented artisan who after time becomes a master mason. Unbeknownst to him his ancestor was responsible for the construction of Stonehenge. His family are craftsmen and they evolve and adapt over time to the new methods of masonry and sculpture. <br />I found the scope of this book remarkable and the idea exciting. This is the primary reason why I purchased this book. Also, what is fascinating with this tale is the landscape and the setting. It amazes me that bloodthirsty Viking marauders once stalked the same ground that a church occupies today. Also, what I found especially interesting where the chapters devoted to the builders. The book came alive when Rutherfurd wrote about the construction of both the druid temple of Stonehenge and the Roman Catholic Cathedral. These chapters were fascinating. The reader can visualize the work involved building both of these edifices. You can feel the character's efforts required accomplishing something so magnificent. For these chapters alone I might have recommended Sarum. <br />However, I cannot fully endorse Sarum, the characters are not fully developed and they are never given a chance to grow. It seems that when a story finally becomes interesting Rutherfurd decides to wrap it up and have them die of old age (or something else). This may be a peculiarity of mine but I need characters that I care about and Sarum never let me have any. At one point it got so bad that I no longer cared who was from what family (even though the genealogical table/chart was helpful). <br /> The other reviewers are correct when they compare Rutherfurd to Michener. Both write this kind of novel, long stories of epic scale. They both attempt to develop their characters over centuries of life. Yet both have the same problem of creating stories that are too large and populating their stories with shallow characters.	2001-08-16
US	51353146	R15LGEY8ENBWGI	0140294295	647837947	Sharpe's Rifles (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	5 Cheers for Richard Sharpe	Sharpe's Rifles by Bernard Cornwell is an exciting roller-coaster ride of battles and army life as seen through the eyes of Richard Sharpe, a newly made lieutenant in the English infantry.  During the early 1800s most officers in the English infantry were of noble birth, however Lt. Sharpe, a former enlisted man comes from the ranks.  He receives little respect from the men in his command and even less from his peers.  The setting is in Spain during the French-Napoleonic invasions.   The English (and Lt. Sharpe) are supporting the freedom fighters of Spain.<br />His army has been defeated and the French are pushing the English towards the coast of Spain and into Portugal.  Through a series of mishaps he finds himself under the loose command of a Spanish Major who is intent upon flying a holy banner from a major city deep within the French area of control.   Sharpe must win the respect of his men, fight an invincible French Colonel, and vie for the attentions of a beautiful English missionary.   <br />I admit that I was a fan of the PBS series before I read the books.  However, when you start this book you will have a hard time putting it down.  Cornwell writes in plain English and his dialog is great.	2001-07-20
US	51353146	R24X1XDI5Q2QIU	0812555198	412077931	Earthquake Weather (Tor Fantasy)	Books	1	4	10	N	N	Impenetrable	There ought to be a law against publishing a book and not telling you that it is a sequel.  This story cannot possibly be read on its own...Don't try.  I am on page 100 and almost nothing makes sense.  Even though I bought this for a bargain rate, I still feel cheated.	2001-07-20
US	51353146	R21E2FFV7S2AXM	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Great Story and an Excellent Read	After a steady diet of Jordan, Feist, Eddings and a host of others, A _Game of Thrones_ is an exciting change.  This is my first book by Martin and I was very pleased.  The book contains excellent writing and a griping story.  I could not put the book down.  Every chapter is a treat. What Martin does is change the point of view with each chapter.  He tells you who narrating the story by titling each chapter with the characters name.  The delightful part is each chapter is practically a short story.  I looked forward to each chapter because you knew it will be something new and exciting.<br />The thing I should note is the lack of fantasy.  Truly, the only science fiction/fantasy you get is a few pages near the end of the book.  So if you are looking for a magical story with lots of fairytale endings don't look here.  Instead what you get is a great story with believable characters.  You get a sense that these are real people reacting to harsh situations.  The female characters especially shine.  You believe that they are real people and their actions are realistic.<br />Some of the other reviewers claim that the book is depressing and the setting is dismal.  It is true that some of the major characters die and the quote \\"Winter is Coming\\" is practically the theme.  However, the reader receives the feeling that  tough times call for tough characters.<br />The only caution I can give, is this book is for adults.  There are adult situations and language used throughout the book.<br />I can hardly wait to start the next book.	2001-05-23
US	51353146	R24HEMCVJHTRR	0812521390	825946760	The Black Company (Chronicles of The Black Company #1)	Books	2	10	20	N	N	Where is the beef	I agree the story is different from others of the same ilk.  I also concur that the viewpoint is original.  Cook put the audience in the middle of mercenary army led by a mysterious Captain.  They are swords for hire.  The hero is Croaker the army's doctor and annalist.  The army's current paymasters are the Taken who answers to The Lady.   <br />Originality is something but when I read a book I like to have some details.  The concept is interesting and that was about the only thing that kept me reading the book.  The main character's motivations are a mystery and for that matter so are all of the other characters' motivations.  Who really are the Raven and Darling?  What drives the Black Company to follow the Taken?  Who are the Rebels and what are they rebelling from?  Why is Croaker a mercenary? I mean REALLY... the questions are endless.  <br />Apparently there are some reviewers that rate this book very high and feel that _Black Company_  is a 5 star fantasy novel but frankly I don't see it.  Cook could have added a few more pages of description.  After all the book is only about 320 pages.	2001-05-23
