US	51373651	RFCDLY9KD2FTL	0152050523	410861931	The Enchanted Forest Chronicles: Dealing with Dragons / Searching for Dragons / Calling on Dragons / Talking to Dragons	Books	5	78	81	N	N	Before Harry Potter, there was Cimorene.	I love this series.<br />I first encountered these books in sixth grade, when my teacher began to read Dealing with Dragons to my class.  She never finished it, and I forget why I began to read it, but after I had finished it, I loved it.  For a long time, I didn't even know that it was part of a series.  I read and reread the book so many times that the paperback spine broke, and I had to finally replace it.  When I did replace it, I bought the entire series.<br />I always tell people that this is a great series for young adults who like fantasy, and that the first book (Dealing with Dragons) can stand alone pretty well.  It is a series that uses common tropes from fairy tales and fantasy myths, but satirizes and mocks them.  For example, in Dealing with Dragons, Cimorene (the very IMPROPER princess) meets a talking frog... but one that she doesn't need to kiss, although he offhandedly remarks that he's met a couple enchanted frogs in the past.  :)<br />The second book, Searching for Dragons, is a continuation to Dealing with Dragons, but it introduces a new character, Mendenbar, the ruler of the Enchanted Forest (and we discover why the series is called The Enchanted Forest Chronicles) and revisits some of the older characters.  Calling on Dragons, which is one of my favorites in the series, focuses on the witch Morwen-- it is the silliest of all of them, in my opinion, mostly because of Morwen's cats.  Finally, Talking to Dragons, which is my least favorite of the series, ties up some of the loose ends.  Unfortunately, this final book takes place one generation from the lovable Mendenbar and Cimorene, and it is kind of disconcerning to lose them but keep Wrede's wit.  But, the series is fun, the characters are (for the most part) wonderful and unforgettable, and it is a very creative (but underrated) fantasy series that I strongly recommend.	2003-08-02
US	51373651	R7ZS8I7R28995	0345423429	192644371	A Caress of Twilight (Meredith Gentry, Book 2)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Wow	Silly me.  I waited until this book came out in paperback before I purchased it.  I even waited a few weeks.  And then it sat on my desk for days and days before I finally read it.  Silly, silly me.<br />Wow.  When I first read Kiss of Shadows years ago, I didn't really think anything of it.  I thought, \\"Yeah, it was okay, but it was no Anita Blake book.  Why is she making this new series, anyway?\\"  A Caress of Twilight has completely changed my opinion of the Merry Gentry series.  Do I now like them better than the Anita Blake books?  Quite possibly.<br />A Caress of Twilight is one of the best books I've read so far this year.  I can't even express what I liked so much about it.  Sure, it does have a little too much in common with romance novels for my taste, but there is something else about the story that captured me.  Now I'm eagerly awaiting for the next Merry Gentry novel.  More so than the Anita Blake novels.<br />This book continues the story begun in A Kiss of Shadows.  Merry Gentry, known to the faery court as Princess Meredith, Princess of Flesh, is on a mission to become pregnant so she can inherit the Unseelie throne from her Aunt Andais instead of her cousin, Prince Cel.  Prince Cel (through his henchwomen) had tried to kill Meredith in A Kiss of Shadows, but he is locked away, being tortured for his crime.  So Meredith is busy with her faery guardsmen, hoping that one of them can get her pregnant before Cel is released from his torture and tries to kill her again.<br />Meredith is hired by an exiled Seelie noble, now known as Maeve Reed, a famous actress, to help her become pregnant since her human husband is dying.  But why has this Seelie been exiled?  What does she know about Meredith's uncle, Taranis, king of the Seelie?  And what is the supernatural force behind the gruesome murders in L.A.?<br />Merry is joined by the same bunch of Unseelie men that appeared in A Kiss of Shadows (Frost, Rhys, Doyle, Nicca, Galen) and her goblin Kitto, and although she doesn't travel back to the Unseelie court, her Aunt Andais does appear, and provides some comic relief.  We also meet new characters, such as Sage, a demi-fey, and characters from the Seelie court, such as King Taranis himself.  It was hard for me to stop reading this book; there was so much that happened in each chapter, more to add to the plots until the end, where they all connected in a surprising finale.<br />A wonderful book by Laurell K. Hamilton; I cannot wait until the next Merry Gentry novel is released.although she doesn't travel back to the Unseelie court, her Aunt Andais does appear, and provides some comic relief.  We also meet new characters, such as Sage, a demi-fey, and characters from the Seelie court, such as King Taranis himself.  It was hard for me to stop reading this book; there was so much that happened in each chapter, more to add to the plots until the end, where they all connected in a surprising finale.  <br />A wonderful book by Laurell K. Hamilton; I cannot wait until the next Merry Gentry novel is released.	2003-04-25
US	51373651	R31LW9UMI4FNV7	0141310464	283503882	Book of Shadows (Sweep, No. 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	The first book of a wonderful series	I purchased this book because it had been recommended to me from Amazon and from people on a LJ Smith listserver.  I didn't expect too much from it, but I absolutely loved the entire series.  I spent hours searching all the local bookstores trying to find the next books in the series after I devoured book by book.<br />They really are wonderful books.  I liked them so much that I even started rereading the series not even a month after I finished them initially.<br />Wow.<br />The main character, Morgan, is a fantastic character.  First of all, Cate Tiernan writes in first person, so you really feel connected to Morgan's thoughts and beliefs.  She is also not really the \\"perfect teenagers\\" that I have encountered in other series.  She is completely ordinary on the outside; she is smart, not drop-dead gorgeous, shy and insecure.  Her life is completely ordinary, as well, until Cal enters her life.<br />The first book takes a look at how Morgan's life changes when Cal moves to Widow's Vale.  He invites a bunch of people to a \\"party\\" one day a few weeks after he moves, and he introduces the crowd to Wicca.  Some people leave, some people stay.  Morgan feels drawn into this new religion.  After her first circle, she feels a new power.  She also realizes that she is drawn to Cal, but unfortunately her (beautiful) best friend Bree has already decided that she wants Cal.<br />But this book is not completely about Morgan's struggle to get a boyfriend.  It is about Morgan's awakening.  She states on the first page how her life changes after Cal moves to her town (\\"Years from now, I'll look back and remember today as the day I met him...\\").  Yet, this book does deal with real high school issues, and also real life issues.  Tiernan does not try to create a \\"perfect world,\\" but instead mirrors real life.<br />I definately suggest this series; it has already been added to one of my favorite series of all times.	2003-02-17
US	51373651	R11FSSCYT7YS7N	0061064831	233891913	Star of Shadowbrook Farm (Thoroughbred)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of my favorite books of all time...	I discovered this book accidentally; I was looking through a bookstore for books, and my friend's mom bought it for me.  I never have ridden a horse, but I guess it's always been a childhood fantasy of mine.  I don't know why I grabbed it, but I've read it so many times that it is falling apart and I need a new copy.<br />This book is not really related to Joanna Campbell's Thoroughbred novels.  It involves a horse, but that's about it.  The main character, Susan, is forced to deal with many issues that many young girls face in their lives, especially an uncontrollable fear, and feeling alone at school.  After Susan's best friend moves away, she feels all alone, with only her parents' stable and her duties there to distract her.  She teaches horse-jumping classes, and one day she is so distracted by her worst enemy that she makes a mistake.  The horse she is riding freaks out, and Susan is thrown off the sadle, and her arm breaks.  She uses her broken arm as an excuse never to ride a horse again.  But, through a new horse that her father buys, named Star, and a new friend, Susan learns that she must put her fears of falling off another horse aside, and work to prove to the world, and to herself, that she is capable of anything.	2002-09-23
US	51373651	R7GFQQACB58WU	0345448987	737112991	Regina's Song	Books	5	10	20	N	Y	Eddings surprised me.	I bought this book because of the author.  I am a big fan of David Eddings' fantasy novels.  When I heard this book was going to be released, I put in on my wish list, and then ultimately pre-ordered it.  I didn't think it was going to be that great, since Eddings is pretty much a fantasy author, and his two normal \\"fiction\\" novels are usually forgotten when speaking about his bibliography.  I put it aside when it arrived, figuring that I'd read it when I was done with summer school and had nothing better to do.<br />Well, I decided to read it a few days before summer school ended, and I couldn't put it down.  I spent hours reading it when I should have been doing my final project.  I finally finished it this morning, my first day of true summer vacation, and I loved it.<br />True, Eddings is a fantasy writer, and maybe shouldn't have wandered into this horror/mystery genre.  Besides the witty sayings that are characteristic of Eddings' other novels (\\"I thought I noticed you noticing,\\" \\"Be nice,\\" etc.), I almost forgot it was Eddings writing the story.  I was so caught up in the story that it didn't bother me that it was not fantasy.<br />The story line is pretty basic: there are two identical twins that are more than best friends.  They are so identical that no one could tell them apart.  When one of them is raped and murdered, the surviving twin lapses into their secret language, \\"twin-speak,\\" and is committed to an asylum.  After six months of babbling, the twin wakes up, forgetting who she is and why she was there.  She forgets her parents, but remembers Mark Austin, a family friend seven years older than she is.  She begins to recover, and then convinces everyone that she is on the road to recovery, and should be allowed to audit classes at the University of Washington, where Mark is a graduate student.  Everyone assumes that this twin is Renata, the less-dominant twin, and that Regina was the one murdered (conveniently, the twins' footprints taken at birth were lost, and since they have identical DNA, no one can be sure which twin survived).<br />The story takes a different turn when Renata (who insists on being called \\"Twinkie,\\" Mark's petname for the twins, and pushes the murder of her sister, or that she even had a sister, as far away from her reality as possible) arrives to take classes at U.W.  She begins to have nightmares, and, finally, during the second half of the book, Mark realizes that these nightmares might be connected to a serial killer in Seattle.  (All of this is described on the book, so I'm really not spoiling anything.)<br />So, what's wrong with the book?  The only thing I could complain about is how the twins conveniently cannot be told apart.  I think that perfectly identical twins are pretty near impossible, and only thing that can tell them apart (their footprints) are lost.  Hmm.  But then again, I don't really know.  The second problem is that the plot about the murderer really isn't discussed until the second half of the book, therefore making the first half of the book completely different from the second.  The first half may not have as much \\"plot\\" as the second half, especially for people looking for those horror/mystery books.  I don't think this was a major problem, but some may.<br />I strongly recommend this book, both to those who are Eddings fans, and those who just want a good book to read this summer.ere lost, and since they have identical DNA, no one can be sure which twin survived).<br />The story takes a different turn when Renata (who insists on being called \\"Twinkie,\\" Mark's petname for the twins, and pushes the murder of her sister, or that she even had a sister, as far away from her reality as possible) arrives to take classes at U.W.  She begins to have nightmares, and, finally, during the second half of the book, Mark realizes that these nightmares might be connected to a serial killer in Seattle.  (All of this is described on the book, so I'm really not spoiling anything.)<br />So, what's wrong with the book?  The only thing I could complain about is how the twins conveniently cannot be told apart.  I think that perfectly identical twins are pretty near impossible, and only thing that can tell them apart (their footprints) are lost.  Hmm.  But then again, I don't really know.  The second problem is that the plot about the murderer really isn't discussed until the second half of the book, therefore making the first half of the book completely different from the second.  The first half may not have as much \\"plot\\" as the second half, especially for people looking for those horror/mystery books.  I don't think this was a major problem, but some may.<br />I strongly recommend this book, both to those who are Eddings fans, and those who just want a good book to read this summer.	2002-07-19
US	51373651	R2J0WVRCLCIG10	0060006072	400098822	Initiation (Circle of Three, No.15)	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Well...	I hate when I get hooked on these series, especially young adult.  I still read young adult books, even though I am one of the few people that I know who still does!  But I got hooked on this series when I was working at my Crown Books before it closed, and I unfortunately only was able to read the first three before I had to look elsewhere to find these books.<br />The last one of the series... I think... not my favorite, but a good ending.  Who knows, maybe there will be more.  The series is about three girls who begin to learn about witchcraft.  Some of the ideas are silly, and some of the ideas are profound.  Isobel Bird has taken a subject that is a taboo to many and made the reader learn about the Wiccan religion while the characters themselves learn.  Does it work?  Most of the time.  There are some fantasy events tied in with what is real life.  A spell from a library book works, a ghost contacts a living girl, a group of fairies torment a girl.  These perhaps do take away from the novels, because you want to believe in what Isobel Bird speaks about the Wiccan religion, but these supernatural events are tied in with the truth.<br />But, otherwise, the series is awesome.  My favorite one dealt with wearing a pentacle to school.  The girls go through the same obsticles that I faced in high school.  The real life situations are believable.  The dialogue is hilarious.  The endings are pretty predictable, but who cares?<br />These 15 books have been a great read.  I have learned much, and I hope there will be more.	2002-03-26
US	51373651	R2P33CMA70XR5F	0395353939	170575532	The Mysteries of Harris Burdick	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	The *best* book for creative writers	My sixth grade teacher used this book for a creative writing assignment.  We were supposed to pick one of the pages and write a story based on Chris Van Allsburg's wonderful illustrations.<br />Chris Van Allsburg, known to me as the author/illustrator of Jumanji and The Polar Express, outdoes himself in this book.  It is a book to get the mind thinking, especially for children.  Each illustration has a caption that is supposed to get the mind thinking.  A child cannot read this book without formulating a story, perhaps unconsciously, in his mind.<br />Chris Van Allsburg is a wonderful artist.  Each illustration, done in only simple black and white, is so breathtaking that I could stare at them time and again and be amazed at the detail, the realness.  The sentence-long captions that go along with each picture even today cause me to dream up a story.  It is a terrific book to get a child interested in writing.  :)	2001-12-28
US	51373651	R1FN0LKCIUV4TR	0226307867	779968539	Sophocles II: Ajax, The Women of Trachis, Electra & Philoctetes (The Complete Greek Tragedies)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great!!! :)	When I entered college, I was surprised to hear that there were so few Greek tragedies extent in the world today.  I was also surprised that Sophocles actually had more plays than the Oedipus cycle.  After debating whether to buy this translation of the texts (I am trying to collect all the Greek tragedies in this series), I finally checked it out of the library.  Personally, I think that these plays are better than Oedipus, possibly because I think that Oedipus is rather overdone by high schools and colleges all over.<br />Ajax: It was good.  I was kind of annoyed that the translator decided to mark each choral ode by its parts, which wasn't necessary.  This play is about Ajax, one of the heroes of the Trojan War; this tale goes past the Trojan War portrayed in the Iliad, however.  In the Odyssey, Odysseus meets Ajax in the underworld who is upset because Odysseus won the contest against him for Achilles armor.  This play expands on the outcome of this contest.  Ajax, disgraced, desperately turns himself against the Greek warriors, especially Odysseus.  At the end, he kills himself because of his loss of honor.<br />The Women of Trachis: Definately climbing near Medea for my favorite Greek tragedy.  This play is about Deianeira, a wife of Heracles.  When Heracles returns from a city with a new mistress, Deianeira decides to take action against the man he loves.  She uses a potion that was given to her by a Centaur, whom Heracles killed when the Centaur attempted to rape her.  The Centaur gave her some of his blood and told her it is a love potion to give to Heracles, so if his attention ever wanders, she could bring it back to her.  When Heracles brings home the new woman, Deianeira decides to use it.  What Deianeira didn't realize, though, is that the Centaur wanted revenge upon Heracles, and the blood was actually poison.<br />Electra: Unlike the Electra in Aechyllus' Oresteia, this Electra is focused on a bit more.  She resembles the Electra of Euripides.  Same story: Orestes returns to avenge his father Agamemnon's murder by his mother, Clytaemnestra, and Aegisthus, Agamemnon's cousin and Clytaemnestra's consort.  Electra has been living with Clytaemnestra and Aegisthus, and she was the person who saved Orestes from Clytaemnestra's rage.  (Why did she murder Agamemnon?  She could have just been an evil wife, but Agamemnon did sacrifice their daughter Iphigenia when he sailed for Troy.)  This play is about Electra's pain and desperate hope that Orestes will return.<br />Philoctetes: When the Greeks sailed for Troy, one of the Greeks was bitten by a venomous snake, and the Greek soldiers abandoned him on an island before reaching Troy.  After the events of the Iliad, and after Achilles death, the Greeks capture a son of Priam who prophesized that the Greeks would not be able to take Troy without Philoctetes' bow and arrows.  This bow was given to Philoctetes by Heracles.  This play is about Odysseus and Neoptolemus' conspiracy to steel the bow. Neoptolemus is to pretend that his is bitter towards Agamemnon, Menelaus and Odysseus because of the contest of Achilles' armor (Neoptolemus is Achilles son).  Neoptolemus befriends Philoctetes and no longer wants to deceive him, plus he realizes that the prophesy not only demands the bow and arrows, but Philoctetes himself.  (These bow and arrows are fated to kills Paris, the &quot;cause&quot; of the Trojan War for abducting Helen.)<br />I definately recommend this collection of plays, especially if you are an Ancient Greek nut like me!  :)e story: Orestes returns to avenge his father Agamemnon's murder by his mother, Clytaemnestra, and Aegisthus, Agamemnon's cousin and Clytaemnestra's consort.  Electra has been living with Clytaemnestra and Aegisthus, and she was the person who saved Orestes from Clytaemnestra's rage.  (Why did she murder Agamemnon?  She could have just been an evil wife, but Agamemnon did sacrifice their daughter Iphigenia when he sailed for Troy.)  This play is about Electra's pain and desperate hope that Orestes will return.<br />Philoctetes: When the Greeks sailed for Troy, one of the Greeks was bitten by a venomous snake, and the Greek soldiers abandoned him on an island before reaching Troy.  After the events of the Iliad, and after Achilles death, the Greeks capture a son of Priam who prophesized that the Greeks would not be able to take Troy without Philoctetes' bow and arrows.  This bow was given to Philoctetes by Heracles.  This play is about Odysseus and Neoptolemus' conspiracy to steel the bow. Neoptolemus is to pretend that his is bitter towards Agamemnon, Menelaus and Odysseus because of the contest of Achilles' armor (Neoptolemus is Achilles son).  Neoptolemus befriends Philoctetes and no longer wants to deceive him, plus he realizes that the prophesy not only demands the bow and arrows, but Philoctetes himself.  (These bow and arrows are fated to kills Paris, the &quot;cause&quot; of the Trojan War for abducting Helen.)<br />I definately recommend this collection of plays, especially if you are an Ancient Greek nut like me!  :)	2001-11-22
US	51373651	R3Q13LTV9YU2Z2	0345448898	731430286	His Dark Materials Trilogy: The Golden Compass / The Subtle Knife / The Amber Spyglass	Books	5	7	14	N	Y	Wonderful, terrific and spectacular	Definately a group of books for people to read (if they haven't already) as they await the fifth Harry Potter book.  Philip Pullman's series is beautiful.  It takes place both in our world and in a world like ours, but not.  The first book, The Golden Compass, takes place in this alternate world.  The second book, The Subtle Knife takes place in both, but connects these two worlds.  The final book, The Amber Spyglass, takes place in both, plus others.  It sounds confusing, but it is great.  Beware, though, that the end of the series is not like any other book that you'll ever read...	2001-11-22
US	51373651	R1HO289T1DOH23	0872204847	627065254	Odyssey	Books	5	51	54	N	N	A very good translation	This quarter, I decided to focus on Homer.  I took two classes concentrating on him, one where we read the Greek text of the Odyssey, and the other where we read both the Iliad and the Odyssey.  I was a little sceptic about the Lombardo translation to begin with, especially because I already owned the Lattimore translations.  After reading Lombardo, though, I realize how great a translator he is compared to Lattimore.  Lattimore gives a more direct translation, but his choice of words conveys the &quot;classic&quot; portion of Homer a bit too well.  Lombardo, on the other had, uses colloquial speech when translating.  Usually, that is not a great quality, but it seriously works with the Odyssey.  Both Homeric epic poems are orally composed, and Lombardo's translation conveys the casualness of the words.  The Odyssey shouldn't be considered an old archaic boring text, because it isn't... I feel that Lombardo is a great translator and should be used more in high school readings of Homer and for first time readers of these texts.	2001-11-12
US	51373651	R1OIETEL3BHWIZ	0553480510	686020531	The Magic Christmas (Sweet Valley Twins Magna Editions)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Even when I've outgrown Sweet Valley...	This is one of those books that you would think I would retire. I'm almost 21, a literature major, but yet I can't part with this one Sweet Valley book. This is one of the only books I could read twice in one day and still love. I've read it so many times, and it is one of my favorite books. Unfortunately it's out of print, but fortunately I still have my copy. This is seriously one of the best books I've ever read, even though it is geared towards elementary school kids. I make a point of it to read it at least once a year. It is a magical tale... magic in the genre (which is pretty much fantasy), and magic in the way it makes me feel (all warm and tingley inside) and magic in the values it has molded upon me. Jessica and Elizabeth, the famed twins, try to (unknowingly) show off to one another for their Christmas gifts... Elizabeth writes Jessica a story about a memory that she has, and Jessica actually saves money to take Elizabeth to a concert. When Jessica doesn't appreciate the story and Elizabeth cannot make a concert, they get into a huge fight. Christmas eve, they're given two dolls that belonged to their great-aunts that contain a riddle. The twins (through a magic of some sort...) solve the riddle at the same time, and ...	2001-08-27
US	51373651	R5RH79OKX5XWS	0812534972	221881151	Snow White And Rose Red (Fairy Tales)	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Please, re-release this book!	I was curious about this book, since I loved the Enchanted Forest Chronicles so much, and also because I had read Jane Yolen's Briar Rose, another book from the Fairy Tale series. Finally, after frantic searching online to buy it (where the cheapest copy of this book I could find was an expensive poor copy of the book, and I don't really like spending lots of money on paperbacks), I found this book in my local library, and read it. It wasn't as good as Dealing with Dragons or the other books that I have read by Patricia C. Wrede, but it was still good. I had never heard the fairy tale of Snow White AND Rose Red, so I was a little confused (I was thinking that it would be like the Disney movie of Snow White). Wrede summarized the true fairy tale bit by bit before each chapter. It wasn't really a modern-day telling of the fairy tale, like Briar Rose was, but just a retelling. Wrede tried to use archaic language (lots of thee's and thou's), and that slowed down the story. That is my only complaint about the book. I am hoping that eventually this book will be rereleased so I can add it to my collection of the Fairy Tale Series, or maybe that I'll find a copy of it used for cheap, but I'm glad I read it. It wasn't as good as I hoped, but it was still okay. If you want a better Wrede book, read the Enchanted Forest Chronicles, or try reading Briar Rose by Jane Yolen.	2001-08-25
US	51373651	R20BVC4EYDSO0L	0671744062	325405829	The Firebrand	Books	5	22	23	N	N	better than The Mists of Avalon	I began reading Marion Zimmer Bradley my sophomore year of high school when my english teacher (surprisingly) assigned the book at summer reading. Now I know a lot of people have read The Mists of Avalon, especially because of the tv movie, but if you are able to get a hold on this book, I strongly suggest it. It is almost the same as The Mists of Avalon, but set in mythical Troy instead of Camelot. We see through Kassandra's eyes, the prophetess cursed by the god Apollo. Just The Mists of Avalon, this book is also a feminist view in a male-dominated world. We see Hector, Achilles, Priam, Agamemnon, Paris and Menalaus, but they are not the heroes of the war. Intead, Bradley makes the women Kassandra, Hecuba, Andromache, Helen and the warrior Amazons the heroes. I really liked this book more than The Mists of Avalon, and it got me interested in Ancient Greece. If you like The Mists of Avalon and can find a copy of this book (because it is unfortunately out of print), I would suggest that you try this one. :)	2001-08-25
US	51373651	R2H95UF771J8CG	0060909005	530217243	The Collected Poems	Books	5	38	46	N	N	There is just something about Sylvia Plath	Gosh, I love Sylvia Plath's prose and poetry. I could read and reread some of her poems again and again. This is a great collection of her poems. I keep this book loose on my bookshelf when I feel like getting shivers up my spine before I go to sleep. There are some poems that I can just read and reread over and over again that make me feel... oh, mysterious, anxious, happy, perplexed... and Sylvia Plath is one of the poets who has written multiple poems that give me those feelings. Most people who like poetry are familiar with Mirror or Daddy, but there are other poems that people don't know about. I loved the sonnet &quot;To Time&quot; and the poem &quot;Mystic.&quot; It is interesting to read her poems knowing what she was going through... reading the poems that coincide with certain events in her life, like her marriage to Ted Hughes, and poems that she wrote about her attempted suicides. I suggest this collection to anyone who is interested in this woman... and I also recommend that you read The Bell Jar as you read her poems, or maybe a few of her journal entries. Sylvia Plath is one of those poets that writes about herself, and knowing background on her life is crucial in understanding these poems. Well, you can decide for yourself.	2001-08-25
US	51373651	R3G196XV3747Y3	0451451430	249749712	Nightseer	Books	1	6	10	N	N	I couldn't get into it	I loved the Anita Blake series by LKH, and I even enjoyed A Kiss of Shadows (though not as much). I bought this book at a signing that she was doing, but I really couldn't get into it. I forced myself half-way through this book before I gave up. The problem isn't the story... it's the way that it is told. The reason why I love LKH so much is the way she narrates. Anita and Meredith are both strong women, and we see the events through their eyes. They are witty, sarcastic and hilarious. On the other hand, this book is written in third person, and it just doesn't have the narration power that held me captive during Anita and Meredith's tales. Maybe I'm wrong about this, and I stopped too soon, but if you want a good book, read the Anita Blake series... I wouldn't waste time on this one.	2001-08-25
US	51373651	R1NORWJOJR1LYQ	0064472981	577997105	Circle of Three #8: The Five Paths	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The best one from this series (so far)	I have such a boring job this summer that I was able to finally pick up this book and read it.  I started reading this series because it was on display at the bookstore where I worked, and before it went out of business, I bought the first 3 books.  At first it was nothing spectacular, but I was hooked all the same.  It is your basic teenage novel, except that the teenage heroines are studying wicca.  I enjoy fantasy novels, and therefore the supernatural, but this series is different.  It looks at wicca as a religion, and also investigates magic.  This book takes a look at what happens to these three teenagers as they admit to their society that they are studying wicca.  Cooper decides to wear a pentacle necklace at school, which causes an uproar.  Cooper faces suspension, and her freedom of speech is questioned.  Her two friends and fellow wicca-studiers, Kate and Annie, are dragged in with Cooper.  Should they admit to studying wicca?  Annie faces the judgement of her boyfriend, and Kate the judgement of her family.  But what got to me about this book is not so much the issue (is wicca/witchcraft evil?), but the issue of freedom of speech in schools.  I suggest this series to anyone who is interested in wicca, or anyone who wonders about it.  A fantastic story.	2001-08-21
US	51373651	R1QMFDF245DAHD	0020425759	738484051	When the Tripods Came	Books	3	43	44	N	Y	Love the series, but I can do without this book	First of all, I hate the reprint covers.  The covers themselves are silly looking, and the numbers on the side are misleading.  I would not read When the Tripods Came until after you've read the entire series (The White Mountains, The City of Gold and Lead and The Pool of Fire).  When the Tripods Came is a PREQUAL, and if you read it before the other books, you lose the sense of &quot;what happened to our world&quot; that you want to have when you read the series.  So, if you even want to read this book (it's not really needed with the rest of the series; the characters are not the same anyway and the story is only interesting if you want to know what happened to the world, but it is pretty much explained in the other books anyway), go ahead and read it, but you don't lose much by not reading it.  (But, as a message to all, don't read this book first!  It is not the first book!)	2001-01-11
US	51373651	R2M1FPXZGYTFHH	0743412028	925429454	Pay It Forward	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Cannot think of a reason why you shouldn't read this!	Maybe I think too many books are good, but this book has to be up there with my favorites.  I started reading it at work, just wondering what it was about because the movie looked so good.  I ended up taking it home and reading a majority of it until early last night, fighting with the allergy pills that were trying to make me go to bed.  It is such a great book.  It warms your heart in such a big way... you finish it hoping that it is a true story.  I can't wait to see the movie and see how the Movement is passed throughout the world.  This book can definately change your life.<br />It is about a little boy named Trevor who, for a social science extra credit project, invents a concept called &quot;Paying it Forward.&quot;  He does good deeds for three people... selfless deeds... and instead of having them pay him back, he tells them to pay it forward-- he makes them return the good deed to three other people.  His dream is to make random acts of kindess an every day thing.  Although he thinks he fails, he does end up reaching his dream.<br />So read it!  Read it before the movie comes out!  Read it because the movie is coming out!  Learn the wonders of paying it forward... maybe it isn't just a dream.	2000-10-16
US	51373651	RS615CMTQCITE	0316601950	760222125	The Pilot's Wife (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	So-so	This book was entertaining enough for me to read and not loose focus on it, but I was disappointed.  I haven't read all Oprah's books, but the couple I have read (the Wally Lamb books, Rapture of Canaan, etc) were awesome.  The story line is interesting... it just seemed like sometimes the main characters didn't stay consistant through the novel.  I bought this book, but I really don't know if I'll want to read it again.  Once was definately enough for me.<br />So, read it if you want... It's not necessarily a bad book... just isn't ever going to appear in my top ten. :)	2000-10-05
US	51373651	RLAXRJ1PBA7F7	0375706771	930468436	Midwives (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A pleasant novel	I read this for my high school bookclub.  It was suggested because the way of writing seemed a little like She's Come Undone (ie: man writing through the eyes of a girl).  Although it wasn't anywhere near to She's Come Undone, it was a very good book.  Different.  I learned a lot of new things that I did not know, such as midwives and what they do.  I actually bought it later on because I liked it so much.  :)  I do suggest this book to anyone who wants an interesting story and a very good way of presenting it.  The story itself is captivating: suspenceful and mysterious without being overly gory or scary.	2000-10-05
US	51373651	R1RPTWC68KPNU2	0060987561	406344440	I Know This Much Is True (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I would rate it higher if given the chance	There are some books that don't fit into a 5 star rating.  These would be things like your favorite books, that rate higher than the other ones that you merely enjoyed.  Both Wally Lamb books would fit on this scale.  I am so eagerly awaiting his next book because the past two have been so terrific.<br />When I first read She's Come Undone, I was amazed.  I thought that nothing would be able to come close to being as good as that book is.  Then, I Know This Much is True came out.  I was sceptic about reading it, since it was so expensive in hardcover and was so long.  Plus, could Wally Lamb really keep up the tradition he set for She's Come Undone?<br />Finally, when this came out in trade paper back, I grabbed a chance to read it.  WHOA!  I could not set this book down!  It is a long book-- about 900-something-- but I read it so quickly.  I got through the first 200 in a day, and finished the last 700 the next couple of days, barely setting it down.  And even though I started off thinking about how long the book was, after I completed the final page, I realized how short it seemed and wished that it could be longer.<br />This is the story about two twins.  It is told though the view of Dominick Birdsey as his life slowly falls apart.  His twin brother, Thomas, is schitzophrenic.  Dominick is never fully recovering his mother's death and his wife's divorce.  He begins to talk to Thomas' psychiatrist about Thomas and finds out that the psychiatrist is actually helping him, too.  The un-crazy twin.  This is as much as I could go into the story without ruining it.  I soooooooooo strongly recommend this to anyone who likes Wally Lamb, Oprah's books... hey, basically anyone who likes reading!<br />Enjoy.	2000-10-05
US	51373651	R30ITQ48CSDRXU	0345423399	497739972	A Kiss of Shadows (Meredith Gentry, Book 1)	Books	5	4	7	N	Y	Laurell K. Hamilton is captivating...	First of all, let me remind everyone that this is NOT an Anita Blake book... she's writing about the faeries, the fey, and her new heroine is Princess Meredith NicEssus.  And although this book is similiar to the Anita Blake books, Meredith is a different character.  For example, she likes sleeping in silk instead of Anita's customary long t-shirt.<br />But the book is still awesome... I was lucky to get an advance reading copy since I work at a bookstore.  I was still in the process of reading all the Anita Blake books so I couldn't start it until recently.  It's sometimes hard to read because you are trying to find some correllation between Meredith's world of the fey and Anita's world of vampires, lycanthropes and all of the other &quot;monsters.&quot;  It's the same type of alternative history, but a little different.<br />The book itself isn't released until November, but I so suggest that you get it... or at least eventually get it.  It maybe isn't the same as the Anita Blake books, but it's still LKH, and still has the power as her other books.  :)	2000-09-25
US	51373651	R3R57E3I1M507G	0590484672	333672873	Calling on Dragons ( The Enchanted Forest Chronicles, Book 3 )	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A silly portion of the series	When I first read Dealing with Dragons when it came out, I loved it so much that I decided to read the rest of the series.  I finished Searching  for Dragons, thought that it was okay and proceded onto this one.  I never  finished it.  I got it from the library and never found the will to finish  it.  Surprisingly, this is now my favorite part of the series.  I thought  when I started it again that I wouldn't like it as much, since Morwen was  never the strongest character in my head... I wanted more of Cimorene...  but this book is seriously as good as Dealing with Dragons, if not better.  I laughed out loud at this one.  Morwen's encounters with the flying  blue-donkey/rabbit named Killer is silly, but it is her conversations with  the cats that made me giggle repeatedly.  Although the end leaves you  hanging, it just makes you want to read the next book even more.  So, yes,  read the whole series... :)	2000-09-11
US	51373651	RJ4JP55XIB37R	0441001971	4008031	Circus of the Damned (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	These books are strangely addicting	I had heard of the Anita Blake books, but never thought that I would read  them.  I like books about the supernatural, but I was going to be stubborn  and stick to those that I had already read.  But then my friend suggested  them to me.  Finally, I decided to buy the first one (Guilty Pleasures).  I  read it, liked it enough to buy the second book (the Laughing Corpse), but  stopped halfway through it.  Finally, a few days ago, I decided to finish  it... and I cannot understand why I didn't finish it when I first started  it.  I was instantly caught in the story, and finished it instantly, and  began with this one: Circus of the Damned.  There is something strange  about Laurell K. Hamilton that lures me to her.  Anita Blake is not the  flawless Buffy, and the books are not your standard vampire novel.  They  take place in the future-ish, where vampirism is legal.  Anita is a short,  sarcastic woman who fights vampires and raises zombies and sleeps with  stuffed penguins.  The way Laurell K. Hamilton writes is addicting, and  hilarious.  I find myself laughing at some parts.<br />So try it. :)	2000-09-09
US	51373651	R15W290ZIQZFNZ	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Harry Potter mania!	When I first heard of the Harry Potter books, I didn't know what to think.  They were popular, the covers were scattered everywhere in the world and it was a children's book and in hardcover.  Other than that, I didn't know  what else to think.  Part of me was interested, but most of me said no.  It  was too much of a popular trend, and since they were in hardcover (or  mostly in hardcover), I ignored them...<br />... Until I started working in a  bookstore two weeks before number 4's release.  There I experienced first  hand what chaos was derived from these silly books.  As I filled out more  and more requests for the fourth book and saw people from all ages buying  these books, I thought to myself, &quot;there has to be something in these  books that makes them so good.&quot;<br />So I decided to figure out what it  was.  I made my good friend buy the first one, and figured that if she  didn't like it, I wouldn't read it.  But she did read it and really liked  it.  She, like me, was afraid of the trend, but after reading it, realized  that there was something inside these books that was good.<br />So this week I  read all three and I'm hooked!  I've been dragged into this Harry Potter  mania, and now I'm a fan, eagerly waiting number 4.<br />So, my point is  that these books are great.  Whether you are 9 or 109, you will find  something great in these books.  My review will probably be lost within all  these other reviews, but I just wanted to put in my rating and say READ  HARRY POTTER!<br />Prizoner of Azkaban is my favorite... :)	2000-07-05
US	51373651	RN0O10N7LCXZE	0553274295	375745868	Where the Red Fern Grows	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A terrific book	I read this book back in fourth grade when I was out of things to read.  A friend of mine suggested this book, so I bought it, read it, and loved it.  Since then, I have read it multiple times.  Every time, this book gains more and more magic.  It even was a required book in my seventh grade  class... if you haven't read this book for some weird reason and you've had  a dog at some point in your life or love dogs but never had one, read this  book.  :)	2000-07-05
US	51373651	R38Y8TNI6NQ67U	0060987561	406344440	I Know This Much Is True (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of the best books ever	I've read this book twice, both times I've been amazed.  The book seems so long, but each time I neared the end, I felt like I had just began the book and didn't want it to end.  I was captivated by the story and the  characters.  All in all, a great book, strongly recommended by me.	2000-01-25
US	51373651	R8TUV3JS8PMQA	0684804441	987000028	The Snows of Kilimanjaro and Other Stories	Books	5	4	8	N	Y	One of the best collection of short stories	I had to read this book my junior year of high school, and it is one of the most memorable things that I read.  :)  I love the short stories... they are so good... especially A Day's Wait... :)	2000-01-11
