US	51373269	RE2UXP6R3JPOH	0060791306	695512830	Way Past Legal	Books	2	7	10	N	N	100% Corn	Corny. It's an old word but an apt description of this book. It starts well enough, but melts into bathos as the protagonist goes from the cruel city to the countryside, where he meets one soap-opera saint after another. There's the old lady who needs an operation she can't afford, the sensitive adolescent who's afraid to leave home for college, the wise Indian matron, the hulking retarded kid who just needs a little attention, and his dad, the tough but fair sherriff.  And the hero, another of those armed robbers with a heart of gold you meet so often, manages to save every one of them.  <br />It's like starting out in a caper movie and ending up on the Andy Griffith Show. Jeez, when did America go all corny? How did the country that produced Scorsese and Hunter S. Thompson turn chicken so fast?	2005-08-06
US	51373269	R1XG93IQ2LK1ZV	0521432111	18123617	The Cambridge Illustrated History of the British Empire (Cambridge Illustrated Histories)	Books	1	19	57	N	N	Disgusting Whitewash	It's astonishing that this book has been published at all, let alone praised. In the centuries when they raided and robbed the entire world, the British committed crimes so vast that one would expect histories of the Empire to be written in a spirit of shame and remorse. Well, you won't find any shame here, or even a simple acknowledgement of the Empire's atrocities.<br /><br />The lack of any historical conscience whatever is the most stunning (and repellent) feature of the British intellectual world. If you must read this book, read it as a specimen of that horrific lack of shame.	2005-03-20
US	51373269	R3AQJ6GJHFGPDL	0135167167	800813356	Kon-Tiki and I (English and Norwegian Edition)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A Forgotten Masterpiece	Kon-Tiki and I is out of print! Agh, that's appalling! It's one of the best books a kid could ever read. Hesselberg was Thor Heyerdahl's navigator on their voyage from Peru to Tahiti on a balsawood raft. Hesselberg is a great storyteller and caricaturist, and his illustrations of the trip are perfectly integrated with the deft, simple narrative. He's much more modest about it all than Heyerdahl--so much so that you may forget how unlikely it seemed to everyone but the crew that this absurd handmade craft would ever survive the voyage. Hesselberg's account is, among other things, very funny--and his illustrations make it even funnier. His sketch of himself dancing a hula in sheepskin pants makes it easy to see why the watching villagers were, as he tells it, reduced to gasping and moaning with laughter.<br />One of the few truly joyous books in the world. Get a copy if you can. If you have any kids, get them a copy at all costs.	2002-06-13
US	51373269	RDA20BM8IQ4K9	0385506805	328898695	Why We Fight: Moral Clarity and the War on Terrorism	Books	1	29	75	N	N	Why We Wight	You Bennett fans...don't you ever get tired of the way he lies? <br />He says W. spoke &quot;eloquently and compellingly&quot; on Sept. 11. You know, we all know, that that just isn't true. W. stuttered like a child and ran like a coward, after the attacks. My soldier friends, who aren't exactly leftwingers, were so disgusted they still won't even mention W.'s name. <br />He talks about &quot;the President&quot; as if the office conferred a halo on its occupant--but when he mentions Clinton, the grand dignity of the office somehow vanishes. <br />He says &quot;Fundamentalist Christians don't seek power&quot;; that's a lie which can be refuted by a simple list of names: Falwell, Robertson, Graham....<br />He asks &quot;Why do they hate us?&quot; and then says it's &quot;irrelevant.&quot; Well no, it's not irrelevant--not with Manhattan in ruins<br />I'm trying to believe you people have some decency in you, but it's difficult, when you swallow such obvious lies and say, &quot;Delicious!&quot; It's hard to believe you're being honest, when your reaction itself must be a lie.	2002-06-13
US	51373269	R1V79DICYRCDRE	0425133516	853466247	The Hunt for Red October	Books	1	23	64	N	N	He's the Man for His Time and Place	Clancy's first and most famous novel is a classic. And I don't mean that in a nice way. The story displays complete ignorance of Russian military culture; the dialogue is unworthy of cartoon characters; the \\"action\\" is a far-fetched excuse for long pedantic discourses on weaponry lifted from the pages of Jane's and Aviation Week; and the author is a draftdodging hypocrite rightwinger who somehow elected not to fight in Vietnam and spent the rest of his life becoming enormously rich lecturing fellow cowards on the wonders of modern warfare. In short, it's the perfect book for the American electorate. You go girls!	2002-05-12
US	51373269	R1YDU4RX3CJUXY	080213775X	265275585	The Hidden War: A Russian Journalist's Account of the Soviet War in Afghanistan	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Before and After Shots of War Journalism	Borovik died before getting the chance to re-edit the book, so what you'll get is a striking juxtaposition of stances toward the Russian-Afghan war. The first section of the book was written in 1987, when Borovik was working for the Soviet magazine Ogonyok. It's the sort of patriotic, sentimental journalism you'd get a 19th-c. British or 20th-c. American reporter: lots of conversations with goodhearted, homesick grunts, but very little thought about what they're doing or whether it's working.<br />The second part of the book describes the very messy withdrawal of the Soviet Army from Afghanistan. It was written only two years later, but it's a completely different style of journalism. With the Soviet verities crumbling, Borovik can describe the chaos and folly of an Imperial war gone wrong. His account of the Soviet convoys trying to get through the Salang Pass without being ambushed is a weirdly lyrical, beautiful description of military failure as high drama. <br />This isn't an account of the war, nor a carefully-crafted essay on war journalism. It's a collection of articles by a very good journalist describing the collapse of his country, as refracted in the latter stages of the disastrous Soviet Afghan adventure.	2002-02-06
US	51373269	R23DOE2UEMKOD5	0375752498	767587980	The Way of All Flesh (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	92	129	N	N	Earnest Reviewers	It's a hoot to read the clipped, sullen dismissals of this book by readers from Topeka to Boston. They obviously hate Butler's novel, and for good reason: the mealymouthed, Christian, moneygrubbing Victorian family on which he spits with such accuracy moved west in the course of the twentieth century. It is now only rarely to be found in England; its true home is...Topeka...and Boston...and a thousand other American whited sepulchres. One reviewer whines that this is the &quot;irrelevant&quot; story of &quot;an average middle-class man from an average middle-class family.&quot; What an interesting form of &quot;irrelevance&quot;!<br />In fact, the novel is brilliant and has endured surprisingly well. To see its relevance, all you need do is move its setting 3.000 miles to the West.	2001-12-20
US	51373269	R27TVHDK8DLNMQ	0864426178	834293095	Lonely Planet Laos (3rd ed)	Books	2	15	19	N	N	Dull and Proud of It	Lonely Planet has a bad habit of using grim Peace Corps Puritans to write their guides, and the one who wrote this one is even duller and more pedantic than most. He resolutely ignores all that might help you enjoy this wonderful country in favour of long disquisitions on Buddhist cornices. If you are touring Laos in order to learn more about the architecture of temples, this is your book. If you'd like to have a good time in Laos, look elsewhere.	2001-08-22
US	51373269	RKRZIVU7F5AVC	0807002097	915258278	Biting at the Grave: The Irish Hunger Strikes and the Politics of Despair	Books	1	15	25	N	N	Dated Venom	Biting at the Grave, now justly forgotten, was intended to revile the ten IRA hunger-strikers whose deaths were creating trouble for Thatcher. O'Malley doesn't do a particularly good job of it; the same sort of slander was being done much better by Paul Johnson. O'Malley--whose absurdly Irished-up name is intended to wrap the green vowels 'round his obvious loathing for all things Irish--is only a servile, native auxiliary.<br />Irish Uncle Toms have never been difficult to find, and for obvious reasons they have no difficulty finding publishers. But even in their grimy company, this would-be author (who's never produced another book, having expended all his venom on this one) stands out as a perfect metonymy for the cruelty, self-serving, and above all the sheer stupidity of the rightwing pseuds of the Reagan/Thatcher era.	2001-02-22
US	51373269	RCZJ2JGW44B2	0441007333	947376342	The Tower at Stony Wood	Books	1	7	43	N	N	Nutrasweet Fantasy	I knew, vaguely, that there were fantasy novels like this, but dear God, I had no idea they were quite this awful. &quot;Lady Gwynne&quot; and her tame knights--it would be funny if it weren't so revealing of the tawdry dreams of lonely cubicle-worker women. To hate your office-life so much that you have to daze yourself with knights and kladies is sad enough--but to bowdlerise those knights and make them caricatures of sensitive nineties guys--I'm sorry, I shouldn't mock the handicapped like this. But really, Trish &amp; friends: don't you think your enterprise is a wee bit oxymoronic--emphasis on the last two syllables?	2000-12-11
US	51373269	RHUTA4WWNHJN7	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	1	19	35	N	N	And You Fell for It.	What would you do if you were an empty-headed rich boy facing the second-book dilemma? Why, you'd do what Brett Easton Ellis did: pour two tons of fake blood all over the manuscript so nobody could tell that you never had an ounce of talent and could not write your way out of the proverbial paper bag, even with a big bloody knife in hand.<br />Just as failed pop musicians migrate to C &amp; W, where dim audiences are pleased by devices grown dull in the faster world, so Brett has taken the cliches of mall gore back to the slowed-down world of the East-Coast publishing world, where the serial-killer schtick, an object of fifth-generation parody for the hip kids at the multiplexes, actually seems &quot;searing&quot; and new. A strange twist on the provincial/urbane distinction: the provinces are now the cutting edge, and the Manhattanites the easily-awed suckers.<br />Ellis has now written two wholly derivative, inept novels and attained fame. As an entrepreneur he is not without skill. As a novelist....he's just not.	2000-10-14
US	51373269	R324F3FTE6KVH8	0679781498	693345954	Less Than Zero	Books	1	14	25	N	N	Hands Up All Who Liked This Novel!	Now, would all those who raised their hands please disqualify themselves from further literary judgments. Less than Zero is less than bad. It's tenth-generation derivative California noir by a silly trust-fund amateur with great connections and no talent. In many cases, critics can disagree and still respect each other; but if you liked this book, you're hopeless. From the clumsy allegory of its first line, &quot;Nobody knows how to merge in LA&quot; to its slow, formulaic visits to the most predictable sites of rich-boy decadence (snuff movies! cocaine! Whooooo, scary stuff!), it's Didion writ dumb, Chandler without corpses--unless you count the readers.	2000-10-14
US	51373269	RVAEO0CTFCPKH	0670871516	78452877	The Arrogance of Power: The Secret World of Richard Nixon	Books	5	24	36	N	N	Nixon without the Oxymorons	Summers writes for all those seduced by Nixon's rehabilitation in the nineties. As the Watergate generation aged, they came to see in Nixon the great white whale they hunted in their youth, and to love him--first as a trophy, then a cool sinister uncle, and finally a prodigal father. Naturally Oliver Stone, their town crier and village idiot all in one, popularized the new orthodoxy with a film making Nixon into a tragic hero.<br />As Summers demonstrates, this is fatuous cant born of the popularization of oxymoronic poetics among middlebrows. In fact, Nixon--much like the bad guys in Fargo, another anti-oxymoronic work--was exactly what he seemed to be: a venomous little arachnid crawling in the dust, looking for something to sting. Read the tape excerpt in which Nixon and Colson laugh over the attack that left Wallace paralysed. They chortle over their scheme to plant left-wing literature in the assassin's apartment like a couple of eighth-grade punks who've been given an endless supply of stinkbombs and M-80's.<br />As Summers shows, Nixon was incapable of imagining the presidency as anything more than a chance for revenge on his many enemies. And what foolish, childish schemes he and his inept henchmen devised! Beavis and Butthead would have snubbed Nixon for his lack of dignity and imagination. <br />With luck, Summers' overwhelming case against Nixon will force a new generation of New York Review of Books writers, for whom it is still 1974 and will always be 1974, to find a new topic. Because for all but the most desperate zealots and paradox-mongers, the Nixon case is now closed.	2000-09-27
US	51373269	R1CEUXI3KHX4X0	0684838087	704582045	Weird Like Us: My Bohemian America	Books	2	23	29	N	N	Bad Book, Worse Readers	I don't know which is worse: the book or the reviewers who've attacked it. Almost all these reviews have a comic edgier-than-thou resentment of Powers for getting a book contract when she's not nearly as cool, her little goatee not nearly as pointy, as the reviewers (most of whom are so cool and courageous they submit their reviews anonymously).These pedantic dweebs attack Powers on the grounds that she writes too much about her own experiences and is not sufficiently edgy or abstract. What drivel! That's not the problem at all. Her anecdotes about living in communal flats in SF are the best part of the book. Only a provincial fool could assert (as several reviewers have done) that personal anecdotes like the ones Powers tells are not valid social history. <br />In fact, as long as Powers is telling stories about her life, she's a decent writer. But she's too insecure to let her stories speak for themselves. She frames the stories with painfully clumsy, forced Presidential-speech oratory about How Bohemia Can Make Our America Stronger. Clinton himself would gag at the rancid treacle Powers pours on her perfectly good, sufficient memoir.<br />It's a striking example of one of the great paradoxes of contemporary history: Americans, who see themselves as pragmatic, anti-ideological folk, are in fact the most ideologically oppressed and oppressive nation in the world, unable to talk about anything at all without descending to utterly meaningless sloganeering.	2000-09-23
US	51373269	R278IYGK15EGSD	0316294748	555280414	Red Mafiya:  How the Russian Mob Has Invaded America	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Great Stories, Bad Survey	If you want to read some great stories about the wild Russian-Jewish mobsters who've been operating in New York for the past three decades,  you'll enjoy this book. If you expect a comprehensive survey of Russian  gangs now active in the US, you'll be disappointed. Red Mafiya deals only  with the gangsters Friedman calls &quot;Brighton Beach Goodfellas.&quot; He  ignores the hundreds of other USSR-born mafiyas--Russian, Ukranian,  Chechen, Armenian, Georgian--many of which are better-disciplined, bigger,  and altogether much likelier candidates to dominate the American crime  business.	2000-08-31
US	51373269	R2QQ2FUIJCDRWD	1586480189	972672754	First Person: An Astonishingly Frank Self-Portrait by Russia's President	Books	2	30	52	N	N	Putin the Innocent	Only the extremely gullible will be fooled by this book. If you really think that Vladimir Putin is a well-meaning innocent who just happened to work for the KGB for two decades, then ambled over to Sobchak's corrupt  administration, then purely by accident became head of Yeltsin's  intelligence bureau, and then came to power just when, by a strange  coincidence, Russian artillery was flattening every city in Chechnya...if  you can swallow all that, then you'll probably enjoy this book.<br />But if  you really believe any of that, you probably need to do a bit of remedial  reading on recent Russian history far more urgently than you need this  book.	2000-07-05
US	51373269	R3KPKELNGGT0VU	0684853779	999464161	Bobos in Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There	Books	1	67	79	N	N	More Bou than Bo	David Brooks is a born lickspittle. He clearly enjoys flirting with his target audience, teasing them just enough to get their attention, then flattering them for pages. It's not very well done--even his title, the  abbreviation &quot;Bobo,&quot; makes you wince, because the &quot;bo&quot;  in &quot;bourgeois&quot; isn't pronounced like the &quot;bo&quot; in  &quot;bohemian.&quot; The mismatch is symptomatic: Brooks' readers are far  more bourgeois than they are bohemian. They are the same world-weary  Eastern crowd to which the New Yorker has pandered lo, these many decades,  and Brooks feeds them the same adoring banter they've come to expect. But  what vile taste they and their little evangelist reveal! How horrible these  little lives of furniture-pedantry! Two careers and a high-strung child  who'll acquire new affectations every year, til she winds up spending her  trust fund on therapy--that's Paradise? What a wretched paradise! No wonder  they need this groveller to tell them how happy they are, how wonderful,  for two hundred craven pages!	2000-07-05
US	51373269	R24QPJNUCI47CB	0879519312	481632924	The Dog of the South	Books	5	95	97	N	N	It's About Time!	It's great to see Portis' finest novel getting a little attention at last. Pity it took everyone 20 years to notice that Dog of the South is a masterpiece. Here are the Seventies as they were lived outside Hollywood:an  American &quot;Era of Stagnation,&quot; a stagnant pond in which tiny  creatures like Ray Midge, protagonist of this novel, move in little  circles. Ray is a bore, a weapons-nerd and military-history pedant, a  tiresome &quot;selfish little fox&quot; in the words of his dancing  ex-mother-in-law and &quot;an effete yeoman&quot; in his own estimation.  But he is also the voice to which Portis assigns some of the funniest and  most beautiful sentences ever written. Ray's failed attempt to live out an  heroic tale of vengeance is the story, and it's a great story; but it's  Portis' extraordinary prose that will stay with you long after you finish  this novel. My brothers and I, who had read this novel dozens of times,  used to conduct whole conversations consisting of memorized sentences from  the novel. It's that good.	2000-06-18
US	51373269	RAZ4QTBZHEBBJ	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Brilliant Storytelling	Black Hawk Down is a remarkably clear, detailed account of a 24-hour streetfight between two-hundred-odd American troops and thousands of Kalashnikov-toting Somalis in the slums of Mogadishu. The US soldiers were  officially there to ensure that starving Somalis got the food hoarded by  the &quot;warlords&quot; in Mogadishu. And the Somalis, in the UN's  condescending official account, were a mass of trembling little sheep at  the mercy of the &quot;warlords&quot; and their henchmen<br />As Bowden  reveals, the official view of the two sides was almost entirely false. Both  groups were lusting for a fight, and entered this one not just willingly  but enthusiastically.  The Somalis are a warrior people, for whom   &quot;unarmed man&quot; is an oxymoron; the US Rangers who engaged them on  the streets of Mogadishu were professional soldiers, lusting for a chance  to try out their weapons in a real firefight. The fight was on, with no  quarter on either side. <br />The battle begins when a US force goes into the  slums of Mogadishu to bring back two lieutenants of the &quot;warlord&quot;  clan leader Aidid. It's the sixth time the Rangers have pulled this sort of  move, and they were successful the first five times. Not this time. A  Ranger forgets to grab the rope and falls from a helicopter within seconds,  and it's all downhill from there. <br />One of the oddest things about this  book is that many of the problems faced by the US forces are like bloodier  versions of suburban slapstick:  an officer forgets to take his headphones  off before jumping from the chopper, a convoy gets its directions mixed up  and drives around the city for hours, lost, with wounded soldiers in the  back screaming at the driver like nightmare versions of backseat-driving  mothers-in-law, while the higher-ups mangle the directions on radio.<br />The  fact that even the commanders hovering over the battle area couldn't get  their directions straight only emphasizes Bowden's achievement inmaking  this chaotic, running streetfight clear to the reader. Describing complex  action taking place in several locations at once is probably the most  difficult task a writer can undertake, and Bowden's brought it off so well  that the reader always knows who's where, who's doing what (and to whom).  It's an extraordinary display of narrative virtuosity, for which Bowden has  received far too little credit.	2000-06-12
US	51373269	R2J76TBKIFL1ND	0674002105	816454549	Russia under Western Eyes: From the Bronze Horseman to the Lenin Mausoleum	Books	2	16	37	N	N	Right-Wing Intellectual History	Russia Under Western Eyes is actually a right-wing history of &quot;European thought.&quot;. Malia is an Idealist, which is to say that like many professors he is convinced that the world turns on the opinions  of professors. Specifically, he joins Peter Gay in what he calls &quot;the  party of humanity&quot;--which actually means, &quot;the party of grumpy  old professors who are convinced the world falling apart when they stopped  requiring ties in the Faculty Club.&quot;<br />Malia sees himself as a great  healer, preparing Russia, like the dishonored daughter of a respectable  family, for eventual readmission to Europe. Malia's hope for Russia is  that, after fifty years of penance, Russia may at long last be allowed to  &quot;converge&quot; with Central Europe, and after another 50 years, be  fit to walk beside that most glorious corner of the globe, Western Europe.  Russians themselves don't seem to have been consulted on the matter; in  proper Victorian manner, Malia diagrams Russia's salvation without asking  the mere natives for their opinion.  <br />Most of us have had arguments like  the one that occupies Malia: &quot;Is Russia actually part of Europe?&quot;  But we've had them in the traditional context: in the dorms, after taking a  first-year survey course titled something like &quot;Modern Europe:  Robespierre to Raskolnikov,&quot; or &quot;Moliere to Madonna&quot; or  &quot;...Nationalism, Rationalism and that Other One&quot;--a course  invariably taught by one embittered rightwing professor and twelve sullen  underpaid TA's. <br />When you try to take this kind of argument seriously  under any other circumstances (outside the dorms, past the age of 18), the  question of Russia's inclusion in Europe tends to devolve into pointless  arguments about the definition of &quot;Europe.&quot; Either the term  refers simply to that part of Eurasia west of the Urals--in which case we  can settle the whole question with a simple road map--or &quot;Europe&quot;is forced to carry an insupportable load of normative baggage about  &quot;the essence of the European character.&quot; And such questions are  better left unasked, because they lead either to massive bloody world wars  or, even worse, to Dutch hippies bragging about how bravely they resist  Fascism by pinstriping German tourists' BMWs when nobody's looking.<br />On  those rare occasions when Malia actually discusses in detail the history of  shifts in the perception of Russia by Europe, he makes some very  interesting points, notably that Russia has often been most feared when it  was least aggressive and powerful (as in the latter half of the nineteenth  century), and most trusted when it was at its most expansionist (especially  under Peter I and Catherine the Great). <br />But there's far too little  detail on the history of Western images of Russia, and far too much of the  old Daniel Mornet, Lester Crocker potted, tendentious intellectual  histories, all focusing on Europe, not Russia. When you reach the end of  this odd book, you wonder:  Honestly, Professor-Emeritus Malia, what does  Russia have to do with this faculty-club spat ? Russia, in your book, has  been dragged, as so many times before, into a European war she could well  have been spared.	2000-06-09
US	51373269	R1NRYR8RDY3VLY	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Where about Diana Wynne Jones?	There's no doubt that this first Harry Potter novel isdelightful reading, but have readers noted its worrying similarity toDiana Wynne Jones' novels? Harry Potter seems to be distilled from two Jones novels: Archer's Goon, in which a middle-class English boy learns he is the youngest of a family of squabbling gods, and Eight Days of Luke, in which a boy being raised by horrid relatives who dote on their own fat, cruel son and treat the hero like a male Cinderella wins his freedom with the help of the Norse god Loki.<br />What's worrying is that if you mixed these two Jones novel together, you'd get...Harry Potter. Have other readers noticed this?	2000-05-30
US	51373269	R2ATHH4JPEHKXA	0374192030	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree	Books	1	27	44	N	N	Do Fries Go with This Tripe?	If you'd like a sample of what you'll be getting in Friedman's book, here's one of the high points, his &quot;Golden Arches Theory of Conflict Prevention&quot;:<br />&quot;...[A]s I Quarter-Poundered my way around the world in recent years, I began to notice something intriguing. I don't know  when the insight struck me. It was a bolt out of the blue.... And it was  this:<br />No two countries that both had McDonald's had fought a war against  each other since each got its McDonald's.&quot;<br />That's what passes for an  insight, in what passes for the mind of Thomas Friedman.  Now why would a  hegemonic world power like America hire ....(Friedman).... as spokesman?  As poor old Jimmy Carter used to ask, Why Not the Best? <br />There can only  be one answer: because the very stupidity of Friedman's analyses serves  America's purposes. The slogans Friedman develops in this book are pure  gloating. Like the taunts of a high-school jock after a victory, these  taunts don't have to be, aren't meant to be clever. Friedman simply  repeats, via many crude metaphors, his triumphalist view that there are  only two ways left: the American Way or the highway. He loves to dramatise  via metaphor the utter helplessness of the un-American, as with &quot;The  Golden Straitjacket&quot;-- his name for the state-model created by  Thatcher and Reagan<br />It's an offensive metaphor, and a very crude,  simplistic model of the world. But then, that's Friedman's job: to dumb  down and shout out the triumph of what he calls  &quot;Globalization-Americanization,&quot; smugly certain that these are  synonyms. It's a job which would make an intelligent, sensitive writer  cringe. That's why Friedman is so good at it.	2000-05-23
US	51373269	R1C0D15HAD3TRC	0300082711	761416189	Collapse of the Soviet Military	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Honest and Original	How could the huge, powerful Soviet Army have vanished so quietly? William Odom, an American general, takes on this question and in the process of answering it demolishes many of the more smug conclusions drawn from the  collapse of the USSR. <br />Odom writes of Soviet military culture with  understanding, knowledge and respect. If there's a failing in the book,  it's that Odom spends so little time on Soviet military adventures  themselves, focusing instead on the organizational quirks of the  military/industrial/ideological complex. He mentions only in passing  episodes like the border war between Russia and China along the Amur, and  spends only a few pages on the war in Afghanistan. <br />Odom's conclusion is  that the Soviet military, grown sluggish and top-heavy, became the focus of  Gorbachev's hatred, and could not stand up to his relentless attacks.  Gorbachev comes across, in Odom's account, as an anti-Lenin, as avid in  destroying the Soviet system as Lenin was in forging it.. When he managed  this destructive feat, Gorbachev was astonished to find that the whole  structure fell almost instantly. As Odom concludes, Gorbachev had failed to  realize what even the fatuous Nicholas II knew: that the Army has always  been the heart of the Russian state. <br />Thouasands of writers have swarmed  over the carcasse of the USSR, most of them interested only in profiting  from or gloating over its fall. One of its last ironies is that one of the  most respectful, subtle appreciations of its life and death has come from  an enemy general.	2000-05-22
US	51373269	R1HORKRX86S8IH	0517122707	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	16	21	N	N	Canonize Him.	Toole is the finest, perhaps the only, Catholic writer to survive in 20th-c. America. (O'Connor, who shares some of his southern/Irish anti-intellectual self-hatred, is a Calvinist in all but name.) But of  course he did not survive for long.Try to imagine the misery of being a  fat, shamed genius sweating it out in the deep South just as the hegemonic  smiles of the Kennedy era were beginning their march of conquest. There was  no place for Toole under that smile. But he survived long enough to write  this hilarious, merciless and heartbreaking novel. All the damned are here  and speaking through Ignatius: the fat, the gauche, the gay, the South, the  Irish, the working poor, the black...and most fatally of all, the  prescient. Because Toole somehow saw all that was to come.Sitting in his  room in that fetid backwater, he saw the farce and triumph of the sixties  all complete. And he wrote it down with mercy toward none (least of all  himself)...and some Peace-Corps fool of an editor stamped NO on it. And  Toole died--not so much for our sins, as for the safety of our right to be  stupid and smug. And America went on to make hacks, talentless strivers  like Mailer and Bellow into heroes, while Toole fed the worms. That's  sainthood, isn't it? It seems like sainthood to me. To convert all that  horror and shame into something so wonderful, try to give it away, and die.	2000-05-14
US	51373269	R231CZ7F639HQ1	0312251858	905456201	Yeltsin: A Revolutionary Life	Books	1	33	45	N	N	One Biiiiig Lie	This is a whitewash from beginning to end. Nobody who knows contemporary Russia could endure it. Therefore, Aron must be addressing an audience deeply ignorant of Russia. Who else would stand for a biography of Yeltsin  which in 750 pages makes only four brief references to Boris Berezovskiy?  Writing a Yeltsin biography without including Berezovskiy is like writing  the Life of Pinocchio without mentioning the carpenter!<br />Yet Aron expects  to get away with it--and based on the reviews of this book, he will  succeed. The New York Times has termed Aron's book &quot;a fine,  full-blooded portrait of Yeltsin.&quot; With the help of ignorant blurbs  like that one, Aron's target readers will end up believing that Yeltsin and  his friends were doing God's work, or at least Adam Smith's--rather than  divvying up the plunder of a fallen empire while its stunned, exhausted  people were too weak to resist.<br />None of the great scandals of Yeltsin's  reign are mentioned, let alone explained. Where's the Loans-for-Shares  scheme, possibly the biggest single act of embezzlement of the twentieth  century? Aron has such contempt for his readers that rather than come up  with an alibi for Yeltsin, he never so much as mentions the whole sleazy  deal. In fact, Aron has so little respect for his readers that he actually  attempts to tell them that the oligarchs are a myth:<br />&quot;...The secrecy  in which the Russian robber barons cloaked their dealings resulted in a  vast exaggeration of their wealth and power both by the Moscow rumour mill  and by the resident correspondents of Western newspapers and television  networks...&quot;<br />Having assured his readers that Yeltsin's accomplices  are mythical beasts, he goes on to deny, without elaboration, some  well-proven charges against Yeltsin:<br />&quot;...equally bizarre [is] the  'theory' that explained Yeltsin's dependence on the oligarchs by the gifts  which they showered on his family--as if the President of Russia, should he  decide to do so, needed intermediaries in raiding the country's  treasury.&quot;<br />What's so &quot;bizarre&quot; about that  &quot;theory&quot;? &quot;Intermediaries in raiding the country's  treasury&quot; is, if anything, a mild description of people like  Berezovskiy and Chubais, who may well be remembered as the greatest thieves  in the history of the world. Yeltsin's job was to present a  &quot;democratic&quot; face to the West while the robbery was being carried  out, not to heft the sacks of cash out to the car by himself. (He's not in  that kind of condition.)  That's not a &quot;bizarre theory&quot;; that's  simple division of labour.<br />But the sleaziest move of all is Aron's  slander of every Russian who objected to Yeltsin's regime. Aron, trusting  once more that his audience is totally ignorant of Russia, dares to assert  that all those who opposed Yeltsin were anti-Semitic fascists. In other  words, Russians who objected to seeing their jobs, their savings, their  country whisked away were no more than Jew-baiting racists. What to do,  then, with a man like Yavlinsky, the half-Jewish leader of the only truly  democratic anti-corruption party in the Duma? Aron, whose tolerance extends  to monsters like Chubais, loses control whenever he's forced to mention  Yavlinsky's name. In Aron's grovelling tale of the Yeltsinschina,  Yavlinsky--virtually the only uncorrupted politician in contemporary  Russia--becomes a villian.<br />Goebbels would be proud to have written this  book. Aron was no doubt well paid to string together so many pages without  a glimmer of truth. And judging by the response of the American press, it  was money well spent.	2000-05-12
US	51373269	R1PKQ3A3WNUQNP	0684863472	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work Of Staggering Genius : A Memoir Based on a True Story	Books	3	38	59	N	N	Carrion Prose	If this novel were a t-shirt, it would read MY PARENTS DIED SLOW HORRIBLE DEATHS AND ALL I GOT WAS A HUNDRED PAGES. Eggers' book, stripped of its elaborate prefatory flourishes, is a brief, formulaic parents'-death  memoir--the most venerable and formulaic genre of the American literary  workshop. For generations, American workshop writers have exploited the  deaths of their fathers, mothers, dogs, cats, rats, parrots, imaginary  siblings and falsified grandparents for literary gain. Dave Eggers, who  admits that he was submitting short stories about his mother's death before  her body wa s cold, is only the latest in a long line of desperate  ambition-machines who have sold their relatives' bodies to the  meat-processors of art. Why, then, has his parents'-death story been so  successful?<br />Eggers' strategy is simple, but effective: instead of hiding  his crime, he flaunts it, even as he hopes to keep the tears flowing. It's  quite a performance, in its way: rather like going for both the low and  high hand in a game of poker. For example, Eggers spends twenty pages  squeezing tears from the reader over the accident which befell his friend  Shalini, then admits that he hardly knew her. In the same way, after  spending a hundred pages telling that cliche of cliches, that Everest of  workshop drivel, the &quot;Mom's Slow Death by Cancer&quot; narrative, he  admits that he began submitting short stories about his mom's death before  her body was cold. <br />For Eggers, literary success is the result of a very  simple arithmetic: one corpse equals one chapter. Two corpses--his mom and  dad, who die with all violins playing in the first hundred pages of the  book--provide the momentum to get the &quot;novel&quot; underway. <br />These  first hundred pages work pretty well, in a workshoppy way, milking the  parents' deaths for every little droplet. After that,only Dave's  little  brother Toph is left as pathos-device Toph's vulnerability and Dave's  tender consciencehave to carry the load, and the dropoff is so stark it  makes the Marianas Trench look like a handicapped ramp. Wile E. Coyote has  fallen off cliffs which didn't drop off this dramatically.  <br />Caring for  one's little brother, which  anyone from a less self-centred culture would  do happily, becomes for Dave a terrible martyrdom, because it distracts him  from his true duty as a young American: the pursuit of celebrity by any  means necessary. The reader is supposed to find his concern for his little  brother heroic. The implications about American culture are horrifying,  above all because, based on readers' comments on Amazon, American readers  really do accept caring for a brother as a deeply noble act, rather than a  given.<br />As Dave admits in his Preface, &quot;The book thereafter is sort  of uneven,&quot; since it covers &quot;...the lives of people in their  early twenties, [whose] lives are very difficult to make  interesting...&quot; Yeah, you can see his predicament. Who ever heard of a  good novel about the lives of people in their twenties? Talk about barren  ground!<br />Dave does his best with this thankless material, always depending  on ol' Toph to keep the audience reaching for their hankies every time his  tales of upper-middle-class careerist banality become &quot;difficult to  make interesting.&quot; If you had to make a t-shirt out of the latter  three-quarters of the novel, it would be worn by Dave, with one of those  arrows pointing toward Toph, and reading I'M TAKING CARE OF STUPID, ALL BY  MYSELF, or perhaps, HE AIN'T HEAVY, HE'S MY TICKET TO FAME!<br />When Dave can  bring his dying parents on stage, he's a passable writer; once they're  gone,  we're left with nothing but his stunningly banal, depressing search  for literary fame at any price. To this end, Dave and his midwestern  preppie friends. start a magazine, giving it the coy name  &quot;Might.&quot; There's no better way to convey the flatness of the  enterprise than to quote the manifesto published in its first  issue:<br />&quot;Could there really be more to a generation than illiterate,  uninspired, flannel-wearing 'slackers'? Could a bunch of people under  twenty-five put out a national magazine with no corporate backing [note: as  Dave unwisely confesses elsewhere, his mag was started by dipping into his  inheritance; thus his career is founded quite literally on his parents'  deaths, just like his narrative.] and no clue about marketing? With actual  views about actual issues? With a sense of purpose and a sense of humor?  With guts and goals and hope? Who would read a magazine like that? You  might.&quot;<br />Then again, you might not, especially if you don't want a  horrifying glimpse into the beige souls of Dave and his friends, who have  no emotions other than  a protozoan crawl toward fame at any price. <br />And  it's worked for him. That's the scariest part. In Dave's culture, that  settles it: you can't argue with success, as the vultures say.	2000-05-02
US	51373269	RJ461SF34L0F5	1881471330	421100576	The Desire Notebooks	Books	1	10	17	N	N	Pedantic Sex, Muddy Prose	When I ordered this book I had the callow notion that it would be readable. Unfortunately, the author has nibbled a little California theory-cheese and learned to blur all he does so that the dim, who always  mistake obscurity for profundity, will be too overawed to notice the fact  that what he's written is actually the ultimate eighties cliche:  high-culture soft porn, rather like a Greenaway film in print form,  overwritten sex and ponderous scenery. Many a belated Lacanian provincial  will wriggle excitedly, awed by the very muddiness and sloth of High's  grand paragraphs.	2000-04-18
US	51373269	R2BIN9OPUQFWYT	0882899317	9411556	Pirate Lafitte and the Battle of New Orleans, The	Books	5	10	13	N	N	First Scripture	This is the sort of book which can speak to ten-year-olds of the things that matter most to them: blood, honor, fear, group cohesion. For all the carefully bowdlerized children's books they fed us at school, this is the  one that was engraved on our minds, telling us how the higher life could be  lived.	2000-04-01
US	51373269	R3VE0VB79SL6UO	0684827166	291388185	AFTER THE COLLAPSE: Russia Seeks Its Place As A Great Power	Books	2	25	34	N	N	Sovietology without Soviets	What happens to a Sovietologist once there's no Soviet Union? If the Sovietologist in question is Dmitri K. Simes, he lands a cushy job at the right-wing Nixon Center and pops out the odd book, in which he pursues the  avocation of all former Sovietologists:  making incompetent predictions  about what Russia is going to do. <br />The Sovietologists had an uncanny  track record: in the seventy years that their object of study existed, they  never once guessed right about its future course. Every single step the  USSR took was news to them. And yet they managed to keep the money coming  in by the same means that other soothsayers use: persuading everyone to  ignore their past failures by making ever-more-lurid new predictions. Like  astrologers, they made a living by persuading frightened, dim clients that  there was a supernatural shortcut to understanding complex phenomena.  <br />Their profession has shrunk recently, because no one in the US fears  Russia as they did the USSR. But there is always a place for a man like  Simes, who possesses a trait even more valuable than predicting the future:  the ability to flatter powerful people shamelessly and at length in print.  Simes is a born toady. He just goes all gooey when he describes the big  players, above all his hero Nixon, who apparently adopted Simes as his  lapdog in the latter years of his exile. Simes' unctuous, deferential  bearded face is shown on the back cover of this book leaning deferentially  toward Nixon, brushing Mister President's jacket for lint like the good  little lackey he is. <br />There are those who claim that Mr Simes supplements  his income from the Nixon Center with a regular stipend from another  would-be scary employer: the CIA. This view was advanced by Limonov himself  in a recent eXile column, which described Limonov's dinner with a drunken  Simes and wife, in which Simes broadly hinted that he worked for the CIA  and considered himself far superior to the yokels in the FBI. Ah forthe  old days, when GRU and KGB spent most of the working week slagging each  other! No wonder Simes made such a wonderful adjustment to his new home on  the Potomac. One of the features of this book is the easy way that Simes  equates his former life inside the Soviet bureaucracy with his present job  at the Nixon Center. He repeatedly refers to &quot;the Moscow Beltway&quot;  when describing the HQ of the Old Regime. Clearly, he sees DC and Moscow as  twin towers; he's just stepped across the elevated walkway for a while.   <br />This book is written in the language of those gray journals for which  Simes writes: Foreign Policy. U. S. News &amp; World Report. He mentions  former Secretaries of Defense as if their names would be remembered, and  invokes the living dead (like Kissinger and Nixon) with outright reverence.  Much of this book consists of Simes' reconstruction of his trips to Russia  with Nixon, in which Nixon appears as a noble figure, compassionate and  profound. It's an odd story, most of all because Simes, for all his claim  to Americanism, still thinks and writes in a very Soviet way. He longs to  find some Great Helmsman who can tell him what to think about everything,  and in whom he can invest his talent for sycophancy, and it's no accident  that he found it in Nixon--because Nixon, for good or ill, was a very  Soviet figure. <br />But Simes doesn't keep Nixon around just for sentimental  reasons. Simes is involved in palace intrigue: a Byzantine secret war  within the Sovietology world. Nixon is the banner identifying his faction.  Against Simes and Nixon are other presidents and their own little viziers,  Simes' rivals: Brzezinski the hated Pole and his Methodist owner, Jimmy the  Carter; Bush and his Master of Assassins, James Baker; the evil Strobe  Talbott, Russian viceroy of that overage Student-Body president, Clinton.  Simes writes about the tyrants and their little grey eminences with the  deep hatred of a courtier out of power who hasthe chance to smear the  character of more successful rivals. His topic, of course, is the  inevitable one: Who Lost Russia? His conclusion: everybody but me and  Nixon.<br />Half of the story seems absolutely true: the bad half. The whole  &quot;How We Messed Up Our Dealings with Russia throughout the  Nineties&quot; part. Talbott's an arrogant fool...sounds right to me.  Clinton knows nothing about Russia and cares less...yup, wouldn't doubt it.  It's the good half that's so doubtful, above all the idea that a man like  Simes, a born toady, would have done any better.	2000-03-26
US	51373269	RF5B75XZSQWM1	1583481168	473831933	Eyas	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Oddly Good	Eyas is a very strange book. One of the strangest things about it is the fact that it's good. It shouldn't be good; Kilian writes from a pretty superficial Canadian/Progressive sensibility (check out his map of North  America a million years from now, with the Great White North hugely  expanded and most of the US gone). <br />But Eyas has a strange, cumulative  power. It starts small, but moves very smoothly into bigger and bigger  scale. And the notion of evil Kilian invents is brilliant. I won't give it  away, but it's perhaps the best narrative metaphor for the baneful  influence of the past you'll encounter anywhere. <br />Kilian transcends his  conscious ideology in this book. Its climax is a Jihad as grand as any in  Fantasy, and this Greenish author shows himself to be very adept at  describing a complex military campaign. Like Eyas at the end of the novel,  Kilian, in writing this book, crashed through layer after layer of ideology  to make something greater than its maker.	2000-02-27
US	51373269	R30HXEJME8YPWL	0802110266	697471953	Memoir of a Russian Punk	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Masterpiece	This is an account of Limonov's adolescence in Kharkov, a provincial Soviet city, in the years after Stalin's death. But Limonov's hero Eddie-Baby is nothing at all like the Russian heroes English-speaking  readers have come to expect and his  Kharkov is nothing at all like the  tightly-policed USSR we usually encounte in emigre novels. In Eddie Baby's  Kharkov, there is no law. Police are goons, and the quickest way to become  a legend in the housing projects of Saltovka is to beat up a cop.  Eddie-Baby is a nearsighted brain who decides, at the age of eleven, to  become a hooligan--and does so with the same quiet, scary determination  which once led him to fill notebooks with data on the fauna of the tropics.  He devotes himself to learning the rules of his punk/proletarian world with  a slightly crazed pedantry, and takes the reader along with him through one  holiday weekend in this astounding, completely unknown habitat: the steel  jungles of the Soviet nine-floor housing projects. <br />But the book is by no  means gritty or grimy, or any of those silly words reviewers use to  describe urban descriptions. In Eddie-Baby's mind, his world is a forest,  full of ogres and prey--and all of it is worthy of caressing, precise  description. He makes you love this world. There are paragraphs in this  book I've read something like ten thousand times, they are so perfect. A  middleaged lecher pouring a glass of vodka; a gang beating a pedestrian to  death; a precise account of the sort of glue and paper you need to break a  window quietly for a burglary; Limonov invests every one of these moments  from a vanished, outlandish world with a calm and uncanny beauty. Get this  book at any cost. There is nothing like it in the world.	2000-02-24
US	51373269	RWGL1XI7JU7EQ	0375407081	4435858	For Common Things: Irony, Trust, and Commitment in America Today	Books	1	161	231	N	N	The Artificial Hick	Jedediah Purdy is something Jefferson could never have foreseen: an oligarch in peasant's clothing, the son of upper-class hippies who moved to West Virginia in 1974, just in time to give birth to Jed, whom they bred as  a weapon.  They knew if their boy-weapon was to be effective, it couldn't  be born in their native haunts--Beacon Hill, New Haven, Martha's  Vineyard--so they sped south to the deepest, most wretched corner of  Appalachia  as this bucolic Damien's hour approached. Jed's mother was  probably barking like a seal in her tenth hour of labor when their VW van  zoomed through Trenton on the Interstate, with her hirsute spouse screaming  at her, &quot;God damn it, maintain! Maintain! You want the little brat to  be born in New Jersey, for Christ's sake?&quot; <br />And Jed's mom, Spartan  woman, clenched her teeth and legs and relaxed only when the van screeched  over the river into West Virginia; then Jed came forth in a stream of  long-pent folly and lies. They named the boy &quot;Jedediah&quot; so that  it would be clear he was a son of the hard West Virginia earth, a real son  of toil. Which of course he isn't. He is a poorly-constructed golem,  magicked of dirtclods and coal tailings to fight his parents' lost battle.  They raised the creature on a farm, no doubt purchased with the dividends  of their discreet trust funds, and began pursuing their quaint,  economically absurd agriculture: Ivy-League oligarchs plowing with horses  and giving every goat a quaint name before they home-butchered it. <br />They  raised Jedediah without TV, without movies, without pop music--without a  single link to the glorious cascade of our culture in its finest years. And  he's proud of it! He boasts about not knowing anything of the culture in  which he was born, and from which his parents kept him til he was too old  to help! These people should be arrested for child abuse!<br />Jed's own  account innocently reveals his parents' gross hypocrisy. He tells us that  hismother joined the local West Virginia school board, an example of  grassroots political involvement he holds up as an example for us all. In  the same breath, and without the least indication of embarrassment, he  tells us that he did not attend the public schools his mother was serving:  &quot;Our parents taught my younger sister and me at home.&quot; And at  fourteen, after this careful homeschooling, Jedediah (full name: &quot;J.  Cabot Getty-Dupont Purdy&quot;) went off to school. <br />Where, you ask?  Perhaps to the high school his mother had made into a shining example of  public education? Did our Jed in fact ride the yellow bus to Drowned Rat  Valley HS in Drowned Rat Township, W Va? Why no. Jed went off to a  different school. You may have heard of it: Philips Exeter Academy in New  Hampshire. <br />When he finished at Exeter, did Jed-Boy Walton go home to  follow the plow, get hookworm and pick a banjo on the front porch? Why no.  He went on to another humble institution of learning beloved of coalminers'  sons: Harvard. <br />Well, OK--but after Harvard, THEN he went home to eat  possum around the family table and steal coal scraps to keep warm, right?  No again. The inside back jacket informs us that Jed is &quot;studying Law,  environment, and social values at Yale.&quot;<br />This is where you begin to  think: they must be kidding. This can't be true. Not even East-Coast  American conservatives are this stupid. But they published this silly boy's  maunderings, so perhaps they are.<br />Purdy writes about &quot;the modern  world&quot; as if he's never been there, in a parody of heavy Johnsonian  prose: &quot;Several years later, MTV presented Beavis and Butthead, a  cartoon whose eponymous antiheroes spend their time watching MTV....&quot;  &quot;eponymous antiheroes&quot;! As the &quot;eponymous antiheroes&quot;  would put it: &quot;Heh-heh--He said 'eponymous'!&quot;<br />Indeed he did.  He's got a million of these gouty harrumphs, the sweepings ofnewspaper  opinion pieces at their clunkiest. The closest he can get to describing  Clinton's blowjob is &quot;a leader's philandering.&quot; Jed worries about  &quot;recent centuries&quot; and fears that &quot;neoliberal  policies...often make a Procrustean bed of economists' beloved  supply-and-demand curves.&quot; They do, don't they? That's why I got a  Posturpedic. Jed uses words which should be a felony for anyone under  eighty. He introduces Ken Kesey as &quot;...a literary character of sorts  as leader of the madcap Merry Pranksters....&quot; &quot;madcap&quot;? Jed,  son, they warn't &quot;madcap&quot;; they was on DRUGS! (Has Jed ever taken  a mind-altering substance other than self-righteousness? No. And he'd deny  it if he had; his kind are great liars.)<br />This book is two hundred pages  long, but the primitive, reactionary argument occupies only about ten  pages, the length of an undergraduate essay--which this thing clearly was  before Jed inflated it. To make it book-length he's inserted a whole  unrelated article on the destructive impact of stripmining coal, and  another on Montaigne, with the odd nod to Rousseau. <br />It's only fitting  that Jed should pay homage to Rousseau because Jed's whole life and works  derive from a single work of Rousseau: _Emile, ou de l'Education_. In  _Emile_, Rousseau describes the ideal education of a boy kept ruthlessly  away from the company of other children, popular culture, cities, and mass  culture. This ideal pupil should be educated at home, by a single stern,  Spartan teacher. By this regimen, Rousseau believed, a youth of natural  goodness, free of the corruptions of society, would be created. It was this  project which Jed's parents undertook, two hundred years later.<br />This  pitiable little book reminds us of an important truth: Rousseau was an  idiot.	2000-02-16
US	51373269	R24406S0W7TN88	0811200175	546348919	Death on the Installment Plan (ND Paperbook)	Books	5	31	47	N	N	Better than Joyce	This is it: the finest novel of the century. Journey to the End of Night is for wimps; the English-language novelists are prep-school showoffs. This is it: the hard core, the key text of the century.	2000-01-18
US	51373269	R3HK42ACL89BOG	0226039595	450774910	Hole in Our Soul: The Loss of Beauty and Meaning in American Popular Music	Books	2	22	48	N	N	The Deploring Industry Goes Pop	This is another of those tsk-tsk surveys of popular culture, intended to prove that the world is going to hell in a handbasketfull of CDs. There's always a market in America for neoconservative scarebooks, but this one is  even more smug and thoughtless than the norm. Bayles truly doesn't seem to  know the violent, nihilistic stance of pop's folk roots--or perhaps she  simply feels that acknowledging this aspect of the tradition would make her  Chicken-Little reading of current pop too obviously untenable.	2000-01-17
US	51373269	RGBV4I52F04UO	1570982112	268898243	The Committee: Political Assassination in Northern Ireland	Books	5	13	17	N	N	It's True. That's Why They Hate It.	The Committee tells a horrific truth: that the hundreds of murders committed by &quot;Loyalist&quot; deathsquads were committed with the help and at the urging of the Unionist elite in the Six Counties. The matter has  already been tested in a British court, which upheld the truth of  everything the book says. The online reviews disputing it come from  Portadown, home of such lovable people as the LVF, who are scorned even by  other Loyalist gunmen. Portadown claiming innocence is like Selma, Alabama  denying the existence of the KKK (which, for that matter, would feel right  at home in Portadown).	2000-01-13
