US	51378626	R3HE69HKSOZQ25	0719560209	178608598	Crossing the Desert of Death: Through the Fearsome Taklamakan	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Monumental Achievement	I guess that if the author is an American, he would have gotten a better accolade here in the American market.  The author was the leader of the expedition team formed by the Great Britain, China, Autonomous Region of Xinjiang and camels.  Whilst the author praised the adventurer Sven Hedin for doing the unthinkable in Central Asia a century ago and using much information jotted down by Sven (or a ransacker depending which sides you are on), he attempted to live his dream of conquering the desert.  Taklamakan desert meant roughly \\"you go in and you can't get out\\" and Blackmore wanted to prove otherwise.  This book was a testimony of how the gigantic feat got done.  We read of how the expedition team came to fruition, clashes of personalities, struggles that they went through such as physical and mental hardships, conflicts such as potential mutiny, tender moments shared among the team members et cetera.  Naturally, the book was quite readable and there were black and white, and even colour photographs to justify important moments of their journey.  There were interesting chapters that touched upon the gulag of China, the nuclear testing site at the edge of the desert, and a bit of history catch up.  It is good to note that Blackmore wrote with fairness of giving credits to credible team members rather than stating \\"I\\" all the way.  Ultimately, the author specified that there would always be a special bond between the expedition members, them and the desert and their reverence of the Great Universe.  Commendable reading.	2005-09-19
US	51378626	R2GH4A5S1K00T4	006078010X	871996437	A Beginner's Guide to Changing the World: A True Life Adventure Story	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Being herself	This book talked much about what we already knew about the plight of Tibet, Tibetans, and Dalai Lama.  Still, I'm continuously pilfering through books written about Tibet lest I forget human's propensity to do atrocities against their fellow human beings.  Whilst we think that sacrifices made during World War 2 would remind people not to resort to violence to resolve issues, it happens yet again in our lifetime.  Examples are everywhere namely Iraq occupation or revolution depending which sides you are on.  The irony of the whole thing is that the main power that ended World War 2 would be the aggressor in this instance in the name of profits.  From this book, it's obvious that Isabel has a pure heart and she asked quite rightly why we are actually penalising Dalai Lama when he's the one who preached non-violence to overcome obstacles.  She also said it quite rightly about fighting might with right.  Cynical readers might be worried that this book is one-sided, China slamming.  It's actually not like that at all.  Isabel pointed out also that the ways activists were dealing with issues might be at the wrong footing or rubbing China the wrong way.  Ultimately, Isabel just shared with us her experience of trying to help Tibets, Tibetans, and the Dalai Lama.  It's funny, heart-warming, and straight to the points at times.  For those readers that want to know about those three main issues and yet, don't want to read a dry book, I guess this is a book that you can try to get your hands on.  It's quite an enjoyable read, really.	2005-09-06
US	51378626	R72URUZ3P1WG1	0007129742	871286493	Ten Thousand Miles Without a Cloud	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Fresh	These days, it's only too common for us to read books about Chinese who had a hard time living under Mao's reign in China.  After a while, everything became a cliche and it became all too difficult to have empathy for them somewhat.  This book was a bit like that but it didn't delve in that for too long.  Rather, it touched upon the Monkey King story, a fable that Chinese had been brought up with including myself.  What I didn't know then was it's actually based upon a true event, the monk himself, XuanZhang.  The rest of the fable was naturally dramatised to captivate people's interest and to transport listener's from turbulence and chaos of the time.  It's not a mean feat for a monk to defy the Chinese Empire and to head to India to get himself more immersed in Buddhism and to bring sutras and other relevant items back to somehow \\"enlighten\\" his people.  The journey itself took 18 years and nobody could brag to accumulate so much mileage in that period of time and to actually translate so many sutras into Chinese.  XuanZhang would have inducted himself into the World Records of Fame.  In that aspect, this book became a \\"Lonely Planet\\" book of his time as XuanZhang jotted down of his minute observations of the places that he had been.  It then also became an adventure book describing how he overcame avalanche, appeasing robbers, survived in the desert for 4 days without water.  Mark Burnett of \\"Apprentice\\" fame would have made a reality TV show based on him!!!  Then, there's a bit of anthropology going on as the writer tackled to dissect what made XuanZhang the person that he was.  Last but not least, the writer also endeavoured to become Jonathan Spence as she discussed about the Chinese Empire, and political mood of the time.  There was also mentioning of grave diggers as well, and many of them happened to be Westerners who \\"ransacked\\" the historical places rather than getting the pieces from proper channels.  Anyway, it's quite ironic to note that some German archealogists commented that they did China a favour by bringing them to German museum for perservation only to have them annihilated into pieces when the Allies bombed Germany during World War 2.  Once we engaged into this book, we would find the present time is strikingly similar to the past.  Life and death is truly a hair brush away.  In all these aspects, this book is really Jack of trade, master of none.  Whilst there's no denying that this book tackles a rather difficult topic, I sincerely think that the author should keep her chin high for having the courage to carrying such a complicated task with such aplomb.  A rather refreshing book to read and good for self-knowledge.  Commendable reading.	2005-08-07
US	51378626	RDD38XZUIBI8H	4770029993	768696247	The Very Small Home: Japanese Ideas for Living Well in Limited Space	Books	3	36	42	N	N	Popcorn reading	One thing that stood out from this book offering would be Kengo Kuma's essay defining and exploring the definiton of living well in limited space.  Credit goes to the author of choosing small homes of different themes.  I would have to say that many of homes featured here wouldn't be conducive to day-to-day living from Westeners' point of view.  As everyone would be aware of, land is a precious asset in Japan and thus, many of homes here are actually going upwards instead of spreading flatwards.  Those that are spreading flatwards are mainly built in the occupants' families' land which I'm sure would go back centuries.  Whilst it's a novel idea to challenge the ideal of building small homes, it doesn't necessarily mean that savings can be actualised.  Rather, suffice to say that this challenge fall into the realm of the intellects and cerebrals who are testing the limitation on architecture.  Detailing plans are provided with amples of photos.  Readers are pledged to read this book with an objective mind and there are bits and pieces that can be implemented elsewhere but in many instances, some ideas are totally unique to Japanese setting.  Still, an enjoyable reference book to have.  Commendable reading.	2005-08-01
US	51378626	R120M9ZOQ60VQV	0060792205	538985671	Mini House	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Commendable reading	I wouldn't describe this book as the \\"IT\\" book regarding Mini House.  However, presentation-wise, it is a tad superior than the one offered by Azby Brown.  Anyhow, whilst Azby Brown's book concentrated solely in Japan, this Mini House book concentrates mainly in Europe.  Whereas Azby Brown's book is leaning more towards the techno-edge offerings, Mini House has a propensity for magnificent natural setting with emphasis on natural materials to complement or to blend in with the environment.  Talking about reading two books on the same subject and yet, seeing from very different perspective.  At times, it's difficult for author to locate ALL fabulous mini houses and truth to be told, he's got quite a balanced selections here in this instance.  Afterall, there are many other great mini houses that are under radar screen where owners opt to maintain their privacy and confidentiality of their house plans.  Still, this book does bring forward one point, that is if we put our heart and mind into it, we can erect house that is devoid of wasted space and a house that is enjoyable to live in.  One of the reviewers said it appropriately that those house might be more suitable for the non-attached individuals who don't have much wordly belongings or that they don't have many family members or that they are strictly used for holidaying or contemplation purposes.  Once again, an idealistic and novel notion of building and living in a mini houses indefinitely but still, a notion that pushes the architectural language forward.  Commendable reading.	2005-08-01
US	51378626	R121TC9KRH31CR	0312306407	48048221	South of the Clouds: Exploring the Hidden Realms of China	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Contagious to read	There are loads of books written about China lately and many of them can be pedestrian-like, been there done that before sorta offering.  Being a journalist, Seth Faison writes with clarity and tackles sensitive issues that captivated my interest from beginning till the end.  What's even more unique about this book is that he brought along with us for a trip to discover himself spiritually and to determine about his own masculinity.  Along the way, through his eyes, we touched upon issues about Falun Gong, transexuals, homosexuality, sky burial, Tibet, Yunnan, infidelity, human trafficking and so forth.  China is growing exponentially as it would utilise the Olympic Games to showcase to the world that it can be on-par or even surpasses other industrialised countries of what it can do whatever it sets its heart into.  With progress, there comes growing pain and this is what this book is tackling and over the years, I'm sure China would go through what other industrialised countries had gone through before they reached their present status.  Let's hope that China would finally make peace with itself and that it would finally overcome its inferiority complex of what other Western countries did to it a century ago.  Despite that this book is not a scholar book, it is still an insightful and deeply personal book that deserves to be enjoyed by all enthusiastic readers.  Highly recommended.	2005-07-31
US	51378626	R1SL8BPQDA8UAM	0262182416	849429802	Gehry Draws (MIT Press)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Outstanding presentation!	As a Gehry fan, I have been rummaging through many books that are written about him and his projects.  The problem about that is those architectural books can't simply keep up with his prolific efforts in creating masterpieces at different corners of the world.  However, the solution is nigh!  Rather than bombarding us with all Gehry's projects, it concentrates mainly on a few projects that meant something to Gehry and his team (built and unbuilt).  The book is kept very simple.  Pages and pages of \\"noodle\\" scribbles done by Gehry on a hotel pad or even on a note paid are complemented by Gehry (when needed)'s comment and also by his team's.  At times, the scribbles are understood but at times, the scribbles are verging towards abstract arts.  If we are shrugging our shoulder, we should feel for the design team that would need to interpret Gehry's works into a form that is legible for construction purpose.  It also confirms what Gehry enthusiasts have known all along, Gehry thrives on conceptual designs and he's a big fan of using long hand to derive his inspiration consciously and subconsciously.  You can say that this book is a Gehry thinking aloud book and truthfully, I enjoy every moment flapping through this breath-taking book which is printed on thick quality paper.  It is not a mean feat that the book is printed and bound in Slovenia.  A definite collectible for a Gehry enthusiast or even an architectural enthusiast.  It's not a book to get a finite answer of how a genius thinks but a book that might just inspire us to think outside the square for a change.  Here, I dedicate this proverb to all of you:  let's not follow the foot steps of the old but seek for what they sought.  Highly recommended.	2005-05-31
US	51378626	R1B5AJI48FU113	9056623494	314610946	What Is Oma: Considering Rem Koolhaas And The Office For Metropolitan Architecture	Books	3	5	6	N	N	An enigma	This book is a compilation of essays by a few professionals from different perspectives in considering Rem Koolhaas and his offsprings in the form of OMA and AMO.  Some essays are cerebral and filled with so many architectural jargons that towards the end, I said to myself, what the ..?  However, some essays had wonderful proses and informative at the same time.  I didn't know for a start that Rem was a movie director, script writer, and I also didn't know that he stayed for few years in Asia and his fascination with those Asian countries.  Furthermore, there were description of his earlier works which are now having cult following.  Anyhow, this book is essentially used to accompany Rem's exhibition.  There were also notable essays about his interpretation of Lagos, Nigeria; Rem's perspective of large buildings; Rem's compulsion in doing statistical research to compile those data into useful information which eventually would be used to build buildings to faciliate those information (fulfilling briefs) instead of building 'junk space' and so forth.  Ultimately, Rem is someone that defies conventions.  He doesn't necessarily build beautiful buildings.  Afterall, what is defined as beautiful these days?  He is someone that polarises opinion.  Either you like him or you hate him.  In the end, can Rem be called an enigma?  Whilst this book is not for everybody, it is still worth reading to get a feel of what Rem Koolhaas is all about.  Be sure to read Rem's own works.  Commendable effort.	2005-04-15
US	51378626	R2Y0LYJOFIE6E9	0972324720	62310503	Jimi's Book of Japanese: A Motivating Method to Learn Japanese (Katakana) (Jimi's Book of Japanese) (English and Japanese Edition)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Fantastic!	Forget about other Japanese books and audio CDs to enhance your understanding of this language.  I was captivated by the author's first offering in hiragana and I have to say that this sequel is just as compelling and effective.  The graphics are big and easy to remember and there are some useful facts in there to allow us to understand just a bit more about Japan.  What I find even more useful is a summary of Japanese words towards the end of the book, which we could use to give us small tests to gauge our own improvements.  Rest assured, answers are provided in the beginning of the book.  Anyhow, the old saying about never judge a book by its cover is very true.  Whilst it is a very small book, it is very powerful and useful, indeed.  Highly recommended.	2005-04-15
US	51378626	R1M3F8EOAWTZLU	1573222925	26397166	Breaking Ground	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Here's the Sandwich but where's the Meat?	If readers were to look for a cerebral architectural book, this book isn't it.  This book read like an autobiography and it didn't go in-depth describing Daniel's conceptualisation of his major works.  It is really interesting to read about Daniel's grievances of his fellow professionals.  The title of the book said it all, Breaking Ground (Zero).  He explained his rationales for having the building at a specific height and orientation.  The third quarter of the book concentrated on the battle between the idealist and the realist (developer against Daniel) of David versus Goliath proportion.  Anyhow, I wouldn't say I was enlightened after reading this book but suffice to say that it gave me hope that if we were to stick to our dream persistently, we would get our dream eventually.  For serious architectural enthusiast, Stephen Holl offers far more cerebral works.  Commendable reading especially for in-flight!	2005-04-15
US	51378626	R26OCDP9BRN9YX	0679425543	501591689	The Brothers: The Hidden World of Japan's Richest Family	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Compelling Read	For avid readers, this is an underrated book not to be missed.  It is the story about one of Japan's most powerful, wealthiest, and influential family, the Tsutsumis.  Lesley Downer wrote this book with such vigour and prose that it reads like a compelling thriller.  That is by no mean an easy feat considering that we are discussing about a business family here but not Kennedys.  Lesley made it succinctly clear in the beginning that this is not an authorised biographies of the clan but she did manage to interview people that are related to the clan directly and indirectly.  To aid readers in comprehending the family structure, a family tree is provided.  A map of Japan is shown and as we slowly read through the book, we would start to appreciate the tentacles that the Tsutsumis are spreading through Japan over the years.  Later in the book, we would find out that the territory would branch off overseas.  The book is separated mainly into three major components: first, the founding father by the name of Yasujiro and subsequently, Seiji and lastly, Yoshiaki.  There is also a mention of the sister, Kuniko (the so-called black sheep of the family and who would eventually path her way in Paris).  There are discussions about Yasuhiro's wives and mistresses, business and political intrigues, and how that would eventually pass down to the younger generations; how the two brothers would tackle business in dramatically different ways.  After reading this book, I can say that I have better appreciation of major corporations such as Saison and Seibu which the brothers have created, how much business and politics are interrelated in Japan, how management attitudes are changing over the years (what is deemed necessary and relevant post World War 2 might not necessarily be as effective in this modern days), the winter Olympics held in Nagano and the list goes on.  I have no hesitation in recommending this book for those Japanophiles.  A book written about Japan by a Japan-enthusiast.  Highly recommended.	2005-01-30
US	51378626	R2HY82XYH82DRK	0142004170	838683592	The Chinese in America: A Narrative History	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Outstanding Book	This, I'm sure shall be Iris Chang's swansong offering as to much my dismay, she committed suicide late last year.  So sad that someone as talented as her would have ridden her life at so young of an age.  I sincerely hope that this is THE legacy that she left behind for the Chinese and for the inquisitive and curious who would like to find out more about the Chinese in America.  As expected, they are reviews about her bias, about facts that are inaccurate, about issues that she could have done better or expanded more but when you look at the bigger scheme of things, she wrote a book that's rather substantial (both in content and the weight of it!) which gives readers an general understanding about the plights of the Chinese in America.  Lynn Pann, another outstanding author talks about the Chinese Diaspora throughout the world and Iris Chang tackles mainly with the Chinese in the States.  Therefore, certain topics are going to be overlapped.  The conclusion says it all that she has attempted to narrate the past and present of Chinese in America and it shall be interesting to note what future lies for them.  A contagious non-fiction book to read and highly recommended.	2005-01-16
US	51378626	RGA6IUKTB7GPW	0609801724	413420813	The History of Money	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Intriguing	I have been hooked to J Weatherford's writing since I read his other offerings.  I can't imagine anyone who would discuss the dry subject of money with so much passion and vigour.  In the end, we have a book that's both insightful and compelling to read instantaneously.  Here, the author talked about the origin of human-being, of how we co-existed with one another without the need of money.  Then, the emergence of money propelled human to think abstractly and differentiating ourselves from other living beings.  The author disputed that civilisation is formed by great thinkers such as Plato, Aristotle, Socrates but rather by this thing called money.  Subsequently, he moved on to talk about the origin of banks; merchants; formation of nations particularly United States of America, its founding fathers, civil wars and its implications, segregation of the whites from the blacks; changes of money forms; demyths about money being pegged to precious metals; money not being used to transact for products and services but rather money exchanging for money to make much money, and so forth.  This book affirmed me what I have had known along, giving me a sense of appreciation of money and its significance in this world, having me wonder what lies for us in the forseeable and not forseeable future.  Despite all of this, it's imperative to come to grasp that whilst there's no denying the necessity of money in our daily lives, we shall be the master of money rather than the other way around.  Afterall, humanity and common sense shall prevail to form a desirable society.  Highly commendable.	2005-01-11
US	51378626	R20BTK8ZYB4UMW	1876907959	144919465	Beach Houses 2	Books	3	1	4	N	N	An Okay Book	This architecture book features a whopping 52 beach houses in Australia.  If readers were expecting smaller baches or huts that Australians were accustomed to, think again!  The author includes designs from the conventional to the avant garde.  Some of beach houses here are massive and they literally can store a whole rugby team and more!  Naturally, all these beach houses are built in locations that command great vistas and naturally, would cost a lot of dollars to acquire.  All beach houses come with a small brief, a easy to follow layout, and some pictures.  An indulgent book to rummage through.  There is a useful architect index at the back of the book with their contact information should readers decide to procure their services.  Presentation is okay.  Personally, I find there are too many houses in this book.  It would be wiser to be more selective and condense the book with only a few choices and yet, expanding the depth of the projects such as interviews with the architect and the clients, constraints, and so forth.  A bit of tensions and dramas would always heighten the sensations in reading this kind of book.  We wouldn't want such book to be dry and uninvolving.  In terms of being a coffee table book, it doesn't quite cut it either as it's lacking of that X-factor.  Commendable effort but one can't help to think that it can be better.	2005-01-08
US	51378626	R1AVKWERYK94LN	1568360320	59719482	Sons of the Yellow Emperor: A History of the Chinese Diaspora (Kodansha Globe)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Excellent Read	This book makes an ideal anthropological study of Chinese that immigrated overseas, particularly to the South East Asian countries.  My Western friends had this discussions with me before that he's fascinated by the fact that no matter where he travelled to in all corners of the world, even at far reaching places such as a town bordering Pakistan and Afghanistan, there stood Chinese restaurant!  Therefore, I always posed this question, why do Chinese end up where they end up?  Don't they want to go back to China (home) or that they are already home?  The author endeavoured to analyse what motivated the Chinese to leave their homeland at the first place.  It was new to me to discover that at earlier stages of Chinese vovage to present day, we were at the short end of the slave trade.  There were indepth discussions of \\"Yellow Peril\\", of obstacles that had been implemented to obstruct the flow of Chinese immigrants to the host countries including USA.  Poignantly, it brought to the fore about the double standards of America then where it had the Statue of Liberty to welcome immigrants from Italy and Ireland and yet, the President of the time signed the creed to prevent Chinese from getting through.  There were discussions about love and hate relationships between the natives and the Chinese, and colonists and the Chinese.  Whilst they despised Chinese, they couldn't and wouldn't live without them either.  Once in a while, violences would be inflicted to the latter and then, they would go away as quickly as they appeared.  There were lively discussions of the well-to-do overseas Chinese such as Madame Wellington Koo, Tan Kah Kee, Aw Boon Haw & Par (who brought us the famous Tiger Balm), Lee Kuan Yew, Bruce Lee, Liem Sioe Liang, Li Ka Tsing, et cetera to give us different perspectives of how those people saw themselves fitting into the social contexts of the time.  There was also mentioning of fictitious characters created by Westerners such as Fu Manchu that stereotyped Chinese to have those Chineseness traits.  As the saying goes, people eat to live whilst Chinese lives to eat.  How true.  A chapter is dedicated to that and the author even managed to demyth about the origin of fortune cookie and Chop Suey!  A session was dedicated to the formation of the Triads, their hierarchies, different organisations, and their motivations.  The part that I found close to my heart would be the differences between the first, second, and third generations of immigrants.  All of them have had different way of seeing themselves, seeing China, having different kind of mentality and values.  The book continued to describe about the immigrants to South East Asia who would subsequently immigrate to Western countries.  By then, the kind of immigrants have changed from the previous that needed to start from scratch to the present that are already well-to-do.  The book questioned if there's anything to present China that would attract the overseas Chinese to finally returning home.  Please be mindful that the book was written in 1990 and she wouldn't have anticipated dramatic transformation in China that would make Napoleon's prophecy coming true: the dragon has and is finally awakened, and thus, the whole world shudders by its sheer might.  Thumbs up to Lynn Pann for covering thoroughly the local politics in various countries, and thumbs up to her for writing such an insightful book that's definitely not piece-meal but thorougly researched.  It's impressive that she could tackle such complex subjects & condense them into a constructive & cohesive book that's so much enjoyable to read.  Her epilogue is succinct but true, that is, we yearn to be Chinese only when we are far away from China.  Highly recommended.	2004-12-20
US	51378626	R9V48Z2E9QESH	0449909573	303227800	Savages and Civilization: Who Will Survive?	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An eye-opener	It is no easy feat to define savages and civilisation literally.  The author brought us back right to the origin, ie. the formation of continents, the climate changes, changes of food chain, the formation and usage of tools and fire which subsequently change homo sapien's nature to hunt and forage into farming.  With gradual changes of homo sapien's tendency of mobilisation into stagnation, infrastructure is needed to sustain their activities and thus, the formation of cities.  The author used examples from Australia, Russia, South America, Pacific Islands, et cetera to illustrate to us the points that he was making and I find those components to be of interesting read.  He continued on to explain about what we have known all along about people from countryside that shifts in huge numbers to the cities for better opportunities to the extent that it overextends the infrastructure and thus, the destruction of the Great Nature.  Subsequently, the original city slickers move further away from the degradation that has become of the city.  With advent of sophisticated technology, those city slickers are not worse off as they can both play and work at the same place nowadays.  What he found shocking was the so called \\"tribes\\" or gangs that formed themselves in cities to carve up their own territories.  His example was relevant and notorious ie. Washington D.C.  Continuing on, tribes no longer need to be held in one place as technology allows the tribes to continue embracing their own cultures no matter where they are.  For example, Asians that are living in USA are still able to watch TV programs from China through sattelite TV these days.  He striked to the heart of the matter when he said that indigenous people are viewed like curios nowadays where people visiting specially allotted reserves to view how they live their day to day lives.  The answers are not found from there but rather, from the displaced indigenous people that are trying to sustain their livelihood in the big and hostile cities.  To summarise the book, it is to say that the countryside people have an uneasy relationship with the city people and vice versa.  It is no longer relevant to separate people through religious affiliations, cultural differences, national borders.  With the emergence of globalisation, it is becoming clearer that we are neither countryside nor city people but simply people.  And to ensure the survivor of our species, we simply need to respect one another.  A simple lesson of live and let lived.  Alas, very few people take heed of this lesson these days.  Highly recommended.	2004-12-06
US	51378626	RCQNN1FYYGL7W	0609610627	301770056	Genghis Khan and the Making of the Modern World	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Excellent Read	This book attempted to dispel the myths about Gengkhis Khan.  So little was known about him and yet, so many tall tales of brutality was dedicated to him and his hordes.  It was amazing to read about Gengkhis' humble beginning, having to grow up under turbulent times only to end up being one of the most well-known conqueror the world has ever known.  Gengkhis' story ended roughly one third of the book and it would continue to explore the reigns of his children and his grandchildren.  It also talked about his other loyal followers namely Subodei who attacked as far as Europe.  I didn't know that Gengkhis' rules would subsequently be divided into China (Yuan Dynasty), Persia & Iraq (Ilkhanate), India (Moghul Empire), and Russia (Golden Horde) and his families would only step down as late as early 20th century!  I also didn't know that whilst the men were doing the fighting in the fields, the women would reign the kingdoms!  It also talked more elaborately about the failed campaigns to Japan, Egypt, and Java which subsequently defined its borders.  However, that's not the main points of the book but rather the legacy that it left behind: its tolerant principles which allowed people of all nations to practice their religions, trade, to exchange their skills; the usage of paper enmasse to share knowledges about its kingdoms; the creation of paper money, the inherent understanding of not printing too much to the extent that it caused inflation; implementation and monitoring of its international law, usage of a consensus to make decisions, which are really the foundations of a modern society, et cetera.  You would be quite intrigued to know the origins of words such as Hurray, muslin, algorithm, blitzkrieg; the Mongolian faces staring back at you from the frescoes done by Giotto next time when you visit St Francis Chapel at Assisi, Italy; the emergence of the Renaissance era.  The yellow peril or Eastern bashing only started in the 19th century but what those people who inititated the resentment, for example, Voltaire didn't realise is that without the creation of a network to connect the West to the East, Europe would still be a primitive continent these days.  Who would have known that the Mongolian Empire would have imploded one day and that the plague would have such a distastrous impact upon the world?  The book concluded appropriately as the Empire of Illusion as in the end, it would revert back to its humble self.  Still, it's essential to understand the world that it was and it is, and lest we forget.  A compelling and satisfying read.  Highly recommended.	2004-11-27
US	51378626	R17W2LWY7RXARX	1876719346	698268347	The Masterpiece	Books	4	2	2	N	N	For Die-Hard Architectural Enthusiast Only	I have been to Sydney Opera House countless of times.  It's one of my favourite places there but my affection for the Opera House was skin deep.  All I knew before was that it was designed by an architect from Europe.  By chance, I found this book & it was such a great find!  It was intriguing to note that Jorn Utzon (the architect mentioned)'s life & career are deeply intertwined with the Opera House despite that he endeavoured to dissociate himself from it later.  He's arguably the most unfortunate architect that I have ever read.  He's so far ahead of his time & due to clash of personalities, the political climate of Australia in the fifties, other macro and micro factors, and most importantly, the calculative bet that didn't go in his favour, he didn't get to realise the Sydney Opera House that he envisioned.  Later, Australians that are coming of age would start to ponder who would have been if Jorn Utzon was retained to finish the architectural building that's arguably one of the gem of this century.  This book allowed us to catch a glimpse of Eero Saarinen (one of the judges who chose Jorn's design from international competition) & to some speculated that his own TWA terminal in the States was based upon the Opera House or vice versa or having the same kind of vision, Mies van de Rohe (who would grow to resent Jorn later on for going for the organic design that he opposed), Eames, Avar Aalto and the list continues.  This book attempted to demyth the mist that shrouded Jorn, the person & architect.  Here was a visionary, a perfectionst, a private and deeply committed family man, a misunderstood & an unfortunate architect who missed out on many opportunities to execute buildings that he won in competitions or that didn't get to realise the buildings to their full potential.  Here, we come to a realisation that what is deemed a fortunate could be a misfortune and the other way around.  An architectural book that reads like an addictive novel in divulging the drama that unfolded behind the scene, the detailing explanation of the construction and the experimentation of the Sydney Opera House, the cost blow-up (a deliberate attempt, a farce, or total incompetence is up to readers' view).  For me, I would never see Sydney Opera House with the same eyes again.  Rather, I would endeavour to have an inside tour next time to truly appreciate the ups and downs that it had gone through.  It's hard not to feel sorry for Jorn but I guess, his name will long live.  Sydney Opera House is truly a masterpiece and this book is a definite homage to an architect who has given it all and that credits go to him far too late for any forms of redemption.	2004-11-12
US	51378626	R2ZW25OF06QGMF	1400040264	274318042	Fallingwater Rising: Frank Lloyd Wright, E. J. Kaufmann, and America's Most Extraordinary House	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Superb & Truly Outstanding	These days, it's a rarity to read an architectural book that is informative and entertaining at the same time.  For those that have read materials from Kenneth Frampton, they are probably more cerebral.  At times, I also find architectural book either to be shallow (bombarding us with glossy pictures and thus no substance) or too dry for an architectural enthusiast to go all the way.  This effort by Franklin Tokler is a reaper, to much my pleasant surprise.  He spent almost three years writing this book and the amount of research that he had done is truly outstanding and tangible proofs were all in the book.  The book contained facts and relevant photos (both B&W and colour).  Franklin digged deeper into the Fallingwater.  He investigated the motivation of why Fallingwater gotten built at the first place.  He discussed the personalities involved in depth and in length and naturally, we also gotten to read about the other personalities of the time and of their connection to Fallingwater as well.  Gosh, there were so many to name but just as a teaser: Diego Riviera, Frida Kahlo, Rockerfeller, Mellon, Richard Neutra, Walter Gropius, Mies van de Rohe, Le Corbusier, disciples of Frank Lloyd Wright, and the list goes on and on.  Franklin endeavoured to educate the world that the patron, Kauffman is just as important as Frank Lloyd Wright in the project.  That's what I find the most entertaining to read about the uneasy alliance between the patron and the architect.  He also disputed the claim by the young sibling of Kauffman that the credit went to him for bring his father and the architect together.  Then, there were talk of their collection of arts, their Jews background and how did the American society accept them at that time, and so forth.  Then, there were talk about the flawed structural system (particularly the cantilever) and how Fallingwater underwent a quiet suicide, the speculation of the origin of the name of the building itself.  The book also went into explaining the rationale of why the house is so endearing to people from all over the world till now and perhaps, there would be another Fallingwater in the making somehow?  A book that is written with passion and vigour, paying homage to it with utmost dignity from an author who obviously has been visiting it for hundreds of time (as mentioned).  I find Franklin's high spirit contagious and I sincerely recommend this book to all architecture buff.  A truly unforgettable experience.	2004-10-29
US	51378626	R1IBOOVD2ICBSI	084782568X	707409487	American Dream: The Houses at Sagaponac: Modern Living in the Hamptons	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Exceptional architectural reference book	Everything in this book is conceptual in design.  One would think that with progress in time and technology, people would opt for advanced method and cutting-edge design to be applied in their homes.  On the contrary, the rich and the renowned are building themselves huge Georgian & Palladian homes at the Hamptons.  Those homes have no relevance to its surroundings, no bearings to the lifestyle of occupants & that they don't capitalise upon the views.  It's simply an avenue for the homeowners to flaunt their richness & their status.  The book explains further that the Hamptons of present days is a far cry from the olden days when the liberal and the intellectuals come to congregate to engage in arts discussion.  Sagaponac is within easy reach of the Hamptons and Coco Brown, both the author & the developer decided to do a development that is a breath of fresh air, a development that challenges the people to be non-conformist, a development that is going to polarise people's opinion.  Whilst the book said that the houses here are to be liveable and affordable, it is rather a subjective point to define the word affordable.  I have been reading about Sagaponac regularly and US$1.8 million to US$2.1 million for a house there is not relatively cheap for common people.  There is also a contradiction about what we read in books and what we find out for ourselves in reality.  One good example, I referred to Shigeru Ban, the architect from Japan.  He worked with CoCo Brown on this project but upon consulting him about his willingness to work together for a speculative project, he commented that he doesn't work on speculative project at all.  There's also talk about the reality that Sagaponac is within airport zone and that detracts a lot of buyers from this project especially when the developer is expecting people to part company with a substantial amount of their lifetime savings.  However, what shines in this book is not the egos and the personas of the architects but the merits of their works.  Some are over-the-top, some are user-friendly, some are environmentally-friendly, some are understated but useable, and the list goes on.  There seem to be a home for every tastes imaginable.  Richard Meier, Zaha Hadid, Richard Rogers, Dean Matiz, Michael Graves are some of the big names here.  Overall, a very satisfying book to read and a book that I have come back to again & again for reference purpose.  Highly recommended.	2004-07-22
US	51378626	R4H95A5XIVZFI	0767909143	242994923	Mindfulness and Money: The Buddhist Path to Abundance	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wonderful Perspective	This book captivated my attention starting from page one when it commended money being the greatest invention ever!  I find it intriguing as a Buddhist nature book would perhaps, tell us that we need to stay away from money as it would imbue in us a sense of craving which is covered in this book anyway.  So, the book dragged me further into its content.  Before I knew it, I'm finished with it!  It's such a friendly book &amp; I find it very useful in terms of using real life examples (case studies if you may) to illustrate their points.  This book also made it clear that by upholding the five percepts of Buddhism, we don't need to live like a pauper.  Despite that Buddhists endeavours to uphold those values, all of them are still living very different lives.  Some would live a contented but simple lives, but some still live in considerable comforts.  It all depends upon the choice that we are making.  The further information appendix at the end is very helpful to allow us enthusiasts to be in touch with Buddhist Centres around the world.  The homepages do help a lot.  A book that inspires, a book that answers some of my doubts &amp; misunderstandings, a book that reminds me what I should be doing with my life to lead an abundant life, not in the sense of having the richest &amp; wealthiest life but a life that cherishes the so called &quot;good&quot; life.  Highly recommended.	2004-06-17
US	51378626	R1JVX4O1XLTCOI	0810966204	822298872	Brilliant: Lights & Lighting (V & A Contemporary)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Tour-de-force	The book has less than 130 pages and despite its tiny size, it packs a punch.  I find it to be a cerebral book written by an intellect who has a passion for lighting.  Complemented by lights and lighting system from the past &amp; present time (some of them iconoclastic), the author wrote an essay about what those things (lights and lighting system) represent to different people.  No longer that light is simply there as an utility but it's an art on its own right.  Then, there are lights that encompass fashion, textile, sculpture, theatre (Sharon Marston's).  With advent of technology, it's foreseeable that light can be wearable in the future.  Now, designers are endeavouring to design wearable light that is comfortable too (Ixilab from Japan, Karada Italia).  There are lights that are done from sparse materials (from designers who are mindful about the plight of our environment and who endeavours not to design lights for lights' sake) (Boym Design Studio, Ingo Maurer, etc).  Some designers incorporate lights into items such as a chair or a table because they emphasise the importance &amp; significance of space but not highlighting the lights themselves (Horgen Glarus &amp; N2).  There are lights that remind us of the past, lights that are designed by touching upon memory (Philippe Starck); lights that stir our emotions (perhaps, for all the wrong reasons) such as Gitta Gschwendtner's lights comprising of hugging lamp, double vision lamp, corner lamp, up-the-wall lamp (give people's impression that the light is a living being &amp; stalking the occupants of the house: sense of intimidation), Hector Serrano's A Lamp in the Swimming Pool (shade lamp but floating on water!: sense of humour), &amp; the list goes on.  Then, the author also questioned lights that are defined as rude for some due to social strata difference, generation gap, etc.  Some companies are trying to redefine the meaning of lights and they lead the charge by commissioning various designers to comeup with conceptual plans which are mind-blowing such as Swaroski's chandellier's project.  I can keep on writing about this book but this shall be a book that you should read yourself.  A book filled with many brilliant ideas, a book that would broaden your horizon regarding lights and a book that you would cherish very much.  Highly recommended.	2004-06-17
US	51378626	R3RNZ04WPVGY3O	0500511462	896106667	Australia City Living	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Simply Outstanding!	This handsome production is a collaboration between two architecture enthusiasts who have studied architecture &amp; happened to be good in photography too!  It contains 390 striking colour illustrations.  For those that were accustomed to Crocodile Dundee in the 80s, Australia has moved forward with time.  Sydney Olympics passed shown to the world that Australia is simply not diverse but cosmopolitan as well.  It's no longer appropriate to generalise Australia as an outback country but a country that is no different from any industrial countries in Europe &amp; the States.  In terms of architecture, Australian architecture is on par if not better than the offerings from Europe &amp; the States as well.  The book said it correctly that as the world is moving faster, &amp; that the resources is getting scarcer, quality of life is akin to hen's teeth.  It's only logical for people to move within CBDs to both work &amp; play.  Australia is not simply filled with architecture offerings by Glen Murcutt &amp; Peter Stutchbury.  There are quality offerings by DCM (Denton Corker Marshall), Lippman Associates, Fender Katsalidis, Burley Katon Halliday &amp; the list continues.  This book is divided appropriately into apartments, townhouses, conversions &amp; urban villas.  The rest of the contents are index of architects &amp; designers, index of locatioins, &amp; acknowledgments.  An absolute gem to revere at those wonderful buildings but also a book to get new ideas.  This is also a coffee table book that I always go back to again &amp; again.  Highly recommended.	2004-04-22
US	51378626	R37C47VH574FNE	1864701021	898082278	Steven Ehrlich: A Dynamic Serenity----House Design	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Prospectus for the Architect	Despite the architect's versatility, this book concentrates on his involvement in residential houses.  All the works featured here are based in West Coast particularly Venice where Steven works and resides.  There are a mere eleven works featured in this book, starting with the architect's own houses and ending appropriately with a massive house to be built for his client in Dubai.  According to the author &amp; reinforced by a short essay written by Steven Ehrlich himself, he endeavours to integrate humanity and sustainablity into his works.  From a quick glance of his works here, they are in the traditions of Richard Neutra &amp; Schlinder who left their marks in California.  There are four components in this book contents: Venice -making much of little, additions &amp; transformations, expanding into the landscape &amp; lastly, the firm profile.  The book is a mere 128 pages, &amp; the presentation is okay enough.  It's a good introduction to Steven Ehrlich.  Interesting read.	2004-04-20
US	51378626	RG2MG3IX6QAEB	9685336008	138442739	Houses: Space, Light and Color (Mexican Architects) (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	2	19	21	N	N	Candy popper book	This book is printed in Hong Kong.  The resolution of the pictures here is so-so.  There are 25 Mexican architects featured here and towards the end of the book, there is a directory of how to contact them.  There are no layouts featured but simply pictures, an indication that this book is never meant for the cerebral readers or for architecture's enthusiasts.  This book is a definite candy popper book, a book that would be forgotten in a matter of time.  Every and each architects wrote a simple piece of their philosophy or belief.  To put this into another perspective, this book is simply a medley of all architects mentioned combined.  The writers didn't even elaborate enough about the pertinence of space, light, and color in mexican architecture.  Perhaps, they are true believers in the fact that a picture tells a million stories.  Can be better.  Yawn ~	2004-04-06
US	51378626	R3QAS13YLTD90S	0060557427	830082587	The Smart House	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Hmmm...I am not sure	This book started out on a great premise, to talk about smart technology, smart materials and smart design in residential house.  Examples illustrated in this book are not bad, either.  Layouts are there, pictures are there.  Descriptions are quite well-written.  Still, this book is lacking of that wow factor that manages to captivate our interest, or perhaps, to keep us reading from beginning till end.  Perhaps, it is the quality or the presentation of this book.  It is printed in Hong Kong and compared with books done by Taschen and Phaidon, this book is definitely of a more inferior quality.  My conclusion is simply, hmmm...I'm not sure.  Keep up the good work, though.	2004-04-06
US	51378626	R1PB0O2QSYU8RV	0810961547	773511920	Light Construction: A Museum of Modern Art Book	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Mainstream Read	This book complements an exhibition with the same title held at MoMA, NYC between 21st September 1995 to 2nd January 1996.  It commences with an introductory essay about how light is perceived in architecture, how technology has advanced to the point that certain ideals can now be reached, how light is interpreted from its initial functional purpose in buildings into something totally metaphorical &amp; abstract aligned with art, pondering what is in store for us in the foreseeable future.  Subsequently, it moves into the &quot;Projects&quot; section.  The picks are quite international, ranging from Philip Johnson, Steven Holl to Herzog &amp; Mueron, Zumthor, Ren Koolhaas, Sir Norman Foster to Renzo Piano to Toyo Ito, Sejima.  Please be mindful that the projects are not necessarily buildings but prototypes which might never be realised in large scale.  Anyhow, the projects are accompanied by pictures, occasional elevation plans, projects layout plans.  It is a book that is fitting to flip through but not something that we would study in detail.  The book finishes with project information, photograph credits and lastly the list of trustees of MoMA.  A definite reference material but not something for keep permanently or as a cherished treasure on your coffee table.  Last but not least, architecture can be deemed as a timely subject.  As the projects covered here are almost a decade old, we might have come across something more avantgarde since.	2004-01-28
US	51378626	R165J42MOGAYWH	0471183423	347040883	Gestures: The Do's and Taboos of Body Language Around the World	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Interesting	This book is good to read in general terms as it attempted to explain the gestures from all around the world.  Sometimes, it's amusing to read &amp; at times, I would be loss for words as what I thought was the right things to do in certain countries is actually considered as rude or obscene.  Perhaps, it's the kind of book that you can read in the plane or just as a matter of interest.  The presentation is rather text book-ish with bullet points, occasional pictures to ease readers' boredom, something like a PowerPoint presentation.  I guess that denotes the writer's background being a prominent guest speaker.	2004-01-26
US	51378626	R2POGGAOHPBUIN	1570620636	21156452	Zen Flesh, Zen Bones (Shambhala Pocket Classics)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Small But A Divine Book	This book is a compilation of four books.  They are 101 Zen Stories, The Gateless Gate, 10 Bulls, &amp; Centering.  If readers are avid readers about Zen, you would have come across some of the stories in 101 Zen Stories.  Truth to be told, there is another book offering in cartoon version which conveyed the stories mentioned here &amp; I find them more accessible.  At times, after we read the stories, our initial reaction would be huh?  It takes time &amp; much persistency, or intervention by unexpected people or incidents that we suddenly get it.  Anyhow, by continuously reading those materials that those ideals can be reinforced within our mental state of mind.  The Gateless Gate is a rendition of popular koans and again, it's quite difficult to understand especially when you are reading this by yourself.  Anyhow, it's wonderful to read.  10 Bulls story is quite self-explanatory about find our source, our original thinking.  The last book about Centering is derived from ancient Sanskrit manuscripts of Shiva answering Devi about Centering in 112 ways.  Sorry about my ignorance but I reckon it's about sitting &amp; breathing: as it is.  Highly recommended.	2004-01-26
US	51378626	RR10Y7IV25TMX	0385472579	731659019	Zen Speaks: Shouts of Nothingness	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Don't Judge This Book By Its Cover	This book exists to make Zen more accessible to the general public.  For those people that practice Zen, the essence of Zen can only be felt or only be understood but not through words or pictures.  As one teaching of Zen would have it, you would appreciate how beautiful the moon is rather than the finger that points you to that moon.  I have to admit that this book manages to clarify certain teachings that are also mentioned in other Zen books.  I'm not saying that this comic book provides me with the absolute truth about certain Zen sayings but it does provide me with an insight.  Everyone has their own ways of getting to the original thinking &amp; if this book cuts the cake, so be it.  If we think that this is merely a comic book, then, it is a delusion!  Remember, don't judge a book by its cover.  This book is profoundly serious.  Highly recommended, light-hearted &amp; enjoyable to read.	2004-01-19
US	51378626	R22MKAATGD2VVS	1564963403	541941554	Campo Baeza (Contemporary World Architects)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Intellectual Book Re An Intelligent Architect	This tiny but substantial book carries a punch.  To be featured in Contemporary World Architects publication, the architects must be critically acclaimed &amp; that their works are ahead of their time &amp; yet, they must be able to withstand the passing of time.  Among the Board Members who made the decision are Richard Meier, Cesar Pelli, Graham Owen, Emilio Ambasz, Aaron Betsky, Charles Gwathmey, &amp; the list continues.  Therefore, we know that we are into something special when we read about Campo Baeza.  Despite his relatively young age, he has produced quite a few number of works that are heavily featured in publications around the world except his hometown of Spain.  The ever reliable &amp; inquisitive Kenneth Frampton not only talks about his works but also, Campo as a mentor, a teacher, an inspiration for many up &amp; coming idealists like himself.  Campo is adamant that he doesn't belong to the Minimalist school despite that his name has been brought up again &amp; again in some Minimalist books that defined him as a Meditarrean Minimalist architect.  Campo is selective with his projects &amp; he doesn't take on any projects.  This book emphasises much about his much praised Turegano House, Gaspar House, et cetera.  Here, we are shown his versatility with his involvements in not just residential houses, but also educational buildings &amp; public buildings.  An architect who is enthusiastic with strong form, the ever changing nature of light, the metaphorism of architecture which he derives from other art stream particularly Rembrandt's &quot;Man In a Room&quot;, Johannes Verspronck's &quot;Girl in Blue&quot;, Perez Villalta's &quot;El Navegante Interior&quot;, the humanity of those buildings with its &quot;right&quot; proportion complementing the environment &amp; their occupants.  The Appendix consists of Selected Buildings in their timely sequence, location, &amp; usage; List of Works &amp; Credits: &amp; Acknowledgments.  A spendid book to read &amp; browse through.  Highly recommended.  Having said that, the publication is done in 1997 &amp; therefore, it would be ideal to have a new edition with addition of his later works.	2004-01-07
US	51378626	R2PDSVQ4IX9EJW	006251766X	765701518	Big Bang, The Buddha, and the Baby Boom: The Spiritual Experiments of My Generation	Books	3	4	7	N	N	As It Is	This book endeavours to discuss about Buddha-nature with humour and using the author's life experiences.  The author's life could be considered as colourful as he travelled to the East various times seeking for the truth, a DJ-journalist-activist, an ex-hippie who embraced the peace &amp; loving messages.  He talked candidly about science &amp; spirituality, of how they intertwine with one another &amp; how prophetic the Eastern philosophies are as they mentioned what's been proven or suggested by contemporary scientists thousands of years before; he questioned about the benefits of knowing the absolute truths &amp; if they do bring any betterments to our well-beings; pondering the question of why do we feel so empty even when our standard of living is far superior than five decades ago; consumerism; George W. Bush &amp; the world that we are living now after 9-11; suggesting USA to resign from its post as the world's superpower &amp; back to its origin &amp; perhaps, this world would become a better place; how the world is becoming smaller &amp; assimmilations of various religions &amp; beliefs; relevancy of spirituality towards saving our precious environment, &amp; so forth.  Wes writes differently from Jack Kornfield (another established author upon spirituality), who happens to be his friend as well.  Overall, this is quite a enchanting book to read.  As Buddha-nature, we have to sense &quot;the&quot; moment.  Whilst this book doesn't fully convey the Buddha-nature, it does give us some insight about the ups &amp; downs of keeping up with the practice in order to embrace this world fully.  Highly recommended	2004-01-06
US	51378626	R23OK4XGAYLGP8	0767904117	161114193	Watching The Tree: A Chinese Daughter Reflects on Happiness, Traditions, and Spiritual Wisdom	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Been there, done that	Despite that Adeline has since written many novels, examples used to illustrate her points are all derived from her personal life, which is depicted in her first outing, Falling Leaves.  Therefore, it's tiring to read through the same old stories again &amp; again.  Having said that, credit goes to Adeline for bringing up issues such as Tao-ism, Zen, Confucianism &amp; discussing about old Chinese proverbs.  It certainly broadens horizons of the Western readers &amp; affirming Eastern readers's knowledge towards their culture.  The book is patchy as it juggles with this issue &amp; that.  The book is devoid of humour &amp; it doesn't have beautiful prose that Amy Tan uses to her full advantage.  One can say that this novel is rather rigid in its expression &amp; should readers want to find out more about issues discussed in this novel, they can read other books recommended by Adeline at the end of the novel.  Please do read it as a matter of interest.  In terms of reading it for reading's sake, there are better novels around.	2004-01-06
US	51378626	R1VBL21B21H04J	1876907428	8603334	100 of the World's Best Houses	Books	3	23	26	N	N	Subjective book	This coffee-table book is massive in size.  I wouldn't say that it's a cerebral book which offers much in architecture literature.  The introduction is rather superficial which defines the meaning of private dwellings by Catherine Slessor, the managing editor of The Architectural Review.  Her comment is simply most of the featured dwellings here are commissioned by affluent clients &amp; they do have an impact upon the landscape, fulfillment of their lifestyle circumstances, enabling them to express themselves as much as the architects who design those dwellings.  The book cut into the chase immediately with illustrations of 100 houses which span around the world.  I'm pleasantly surprised that some houses in New Zealand are featured too.  There are many types of houses ranging from International House to Deconstructivism to Post Expressionism to Minimalism to Intelligent House (regulating the temperature in the house by using passive means to conserve energy) &amp; the list goes on.  Should readers would like to read more about those houses, there are briefs provided at the end of the book.  It would be good if there are headings given in the book but obviously, it's not done in this instance.  It would be ideal if contact information for architects are provided in this book as some architecture books would have done.  There are enough pictures to keep us interested and ocassionally building plans.  It would be interesting if editor shares with us how she picks those houses that are featured in this book because I would like to think that preferences are rather subjective.  Therefore, for what she thinks is the best 100 houses in the world, other people might not necessarily think so.  Perhaps, the choice of the title of the book is questionable.  Anyhow, this book does provide us with a broad view of available houses in the world.  I wouldn't say that this is a definitive architecture book or a book that you should have in your collection.  However, as a referencematerial, it shall made do.  A book with enormous potential but ultimately, disappointing.  By the way, many of the houses here come from the States.  Is it because other places in the world are devoid of creativity or that Americans do put a lot of effort into their homes?	2004-01-01
US	51378626	R2OBHWOK9SIIKA	379132859X	167278808	Minimal Architecture: From Contemporary International Style to New Strategies (Architecture in Focus)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Very Well-Done Book	Despite this book's moderate size (175 pages only), it is a very well-done book with amples of photographs; where appropriate building plan, architects' contact information; bibliography; author biographies, illustration credits (not in any particular order).  Unlike some architecture books which emphasise merely upon the visuals, this book is rather cerebral trying to define what &quot;minimalism&quot; is.  In the end, it doesn't provide us with a definitive answer but it raises more questions in helping us to categorise the kind of minimalism that we think we belong to.  Here, minimalism is separated into essential minimalism (transposing Modernism's &quot;less is more&quot; to &quot;least is most&quot;, reductive composition with usage of industrial materials, &amp; inward looking), meta-minimalism (appropriation &quot;minimalism&quot;-s formal language whilst cultivating it for their own aims), &amp; trans-minimalism (as quoted, theoretical speculation about an architecture which would allow itself to be inspired not by the forms but by the concepts of Minimal Art, taking its external environment into context as a sum of its parts).  Here, acknowledged minimalist architects are omitted such as John Pawson &amp; Campo Baeza.  Rather, architects such as OMA, Herzog &amp; de Meuron (cheekily called the enfant terrible of &quot;minimalist architecture&quot; for their loose interpretation of such discipline &amp; only been used on some of their works), Zaha Hadid, Shigeru Ban, Jose Rafel Moneo Arquitecto, Diener &amp; Diener Architekten &amp; the list continues.  Here, we are brought to the attention that there is an irony in minimalism where its original intention to deviate from consumerism is used subsequently by Prada, Calvin Klein, Giorgio Armani to market their products.  As minimalism is going mainstream, Prada is now engaging service of OMA to redefine minimalism &amp; thus, individualise its brand from other brand offerings.  This is one of those books thatI enjoy reading again &amp; again.  Highly recommended &amp; a definitive collection if you are an architecture enthusiast.	2003-12-29
US	51378626	RR4PAQE8SGH6Z	0767901053	370701760	Crooked Cucumber: The Life and Zen Teaching of Shunryu Suzuki	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Labour of Love	At times, authors would have the highest regards of their subjects that by the time the books are completed, the biographies of the subjects would differ completly from the real thing.  Despite that David Chatwick was a student of Shunryu Suzuki, and despite that the reverence is there, David interviewed hundreds of people, researched through piles of materials in order to convey to us the person that Shunryu Suzuki was.  Here, he was portrayed as a human being with his own flaws.  As we traced Shunryu's life from his childhood in Japan and subsequently, to America, we would learn of his deep sufferings that moulded him to become the person that he would become later on.  In Japan, he never gotten the recognition that he deserved &amp; right from day one, he was called Crooked Cucumber by his own teacher for his absent-mindedness.  Yet, we are talking about the same Crooked Cucumber that brought Zen into the mainstream, setting up Zen centres in the West, initiated the exchange program between America &amp; Japan, and along the way, captivating people's hearts &amp; souls.  Shunryu always believed in the middle-road &amp; in all people.  He left people to their own discretion to find meanings in their lives &amp; he's only there to guide them when his assistance was needed.  The later part of the book was very heart-moving to read as he was struggling with his own terminal illness &amp; yet, he projected a quiet dignity &amp; strength that a teacher possessed &amp; guided his students till the change-over phase.  In his dead bed, he was still thinking about his students instead about himself.  One can't help but feeling emotional about this book. A times, it's funny, it's sad, it's scary (especially when he had his short temper burst), it's wonderful but isn't that what life is all about?  By reading this book, perhaps, we get a bit of insight about this great teacher but along the way, we get to learn more about ourselves.  A captivating read and highly recommended	2003-11-19
US	51378626	R20MVW92PZ728O	3791327895	263241818	Xtreme Houses (Architecture)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Interesting Read	I don't believe that it's the authors' intention to shock the readers with so-called &quot;extreme&quot; houses.  Rather, they are giving us a glimpse of a &quot;quiet&quot; revolution that's happening all around us, be it in a suburb, in a secluded area, by the sea, and so forth.  The houses are defined as &quot;extreme&quot; as they don't conform to the norm, not in terms of appearance only but in the way the houses are perceived, constructed, materials used to build them.  The authors have done much research in including worthy houses in this collection. They don't wish to include houses that simply look odd or out-of-ordinary and don't have any implication towards their social environment.  Both authors have two very different backgrounds and therefore, collections in here are eclectic in nature.  There are houses that seemed to defy gravity and &quot;floated&quot; on air by sheer support of tree branches, houses made with aluminium can, cargo containers, houses that look like space-ship, houses that can be docked by the bay and shifted as pleased to change view and directions to maximise sun-light and the list goes on.  The authors reinforced Plato's viewpoint that &quot;invention is done out of necessity&quot;.  Why should we settle for anything less when talking about our homes?  It's about time that we should have more say towards houses that would conform to our living requirements.  It's time to stop giving the power to property developers and architects.  Rather, we should take the helm ourselves in dictating what we should and shouldn't have for our homes.  I don't say that this is a must-have book in your architecture book collection but it's definitely ideal as a reference book, where innovative ideas can be sourced for inspirations.  At times, I find the literature wanting and the graphics too insubstantial (with no building layouts) to whet any architecture enthusiasts' appetite.  Having said that, authors have endeavoured to divide this book into four distinctive categories: self-construct, move to the sticks, bring your own building, and space invaders.  They are rather self-explanatory.	2003-10-29
US	51378626	R20JS9S3LLXKE6	0446677450	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money--That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	2	11	14	N	N	thin on substance	This book was the number one top-selling book in New Zealand for a few years running.  Some of my friends read it &amp; they were convinced that they were in the rat-race &amp; thus, they made some changes which might change their lives for the better (or worse).  That is the main reason why I got myself the book to read &amp; see what kind of impacts it would make on me.  Much of what the book said was common sense anyway or that we were told of the same things by our parents &amp; the parents before them.  That proved to me that not many of us took heed of our parents' advice or that we were severely lacking of common sense.  Just to give you a few examples, in order to create our wealth, we should maximising the income bracket &amp; minimising the cost bracket.  Please?!  Then, it's about us not falling victims to credit cards, &amp; other so-called interest free items.  Anyway, whoever that is strong with their financial managing would find this book lacking of substance that would make a real difference.  The author used his life example to portray to us how easy it is for him &amp; his rich dad to utilise money to make money.  Sometimes, how I wish that the author would go straight to the point rather than beating around the bush.  Anyway, after finishing this book, I continued reading the sequel: rich kid, poor kid, &amp; trust me, you wouldn't miss much.  All I can say is that I really got to give the author the credit for having the ingenuity &amp; the courage for bringing out the obvious &amp; thus, rewarded financially from this.  The best thing in life is that if you are not happy &amp; not content, do something about it.  Doing something is better than not doing anything, or blaming other people's from your own misfortunes or whinging about what if's.  Seize the moment, if you still haven't got my hint.  Try on other more constructive &amp; informative investment books.  I'm sure that there are better ones out there!	2003-03-20
US	51378626	RHHC67Z7ZYNL4	0375703012	779305545	Thunder from the East: Portrait of a Rising Asia	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Oops, They Have Done It Again!	A brilliant book this is, &amp; it can only come from the Pulitzer Prize winner husband &amp; wife team, who brought us &quot;China Wakes&quot; few years back.  The book digs deep, peeling the onion into the inner core, &amp; evaluating the status of Asia in the world.  I find it wonderful to read as this is not a thesis per say, but a stupendous effort of journalism.  The writers went boldly to many places searching for answers by interviewing the locals or by observing.  Pity, elation, helplessness, frustration, hope, powerlessness, ludicrousness are some of the emotions that overwhelmed me as I rummaged through the book.  To summarise the book simply, don't underestimate Asia because if you do, you do it at your own peril as been written by the authors.  By having flexibility, social stability, greed, willingness to embrace other cultures, the sky or shall I say, the space is the limit for Asia.  Nobody knows for certain if America would be superseded by Asia but if it gets too complacent, &amp; if Asia maintains its present momentum, a calculated guess is that Asia would might just be possible to once again rule  the world, or better known as the &quot;Middle Kingdom&quot;!  Highly recommended	2002-09-19
US	51378626	RFBFLG7RHQK1F	0375724931	794119090	The Bridegroom: Stories	Books	4	4	5	N	N	a definitive Chinese book	Ha Jin's book is deceptively simple to read but it always manages to captivate our hearts.  The short stories book contained stories about revenge, homophobia, nepotism, socialism versus capitalism; a book that explored the weaknesses of human nature.  Chinese wisdom are passed down younger generations through their old sayings, & for us who were taught those old sayings, this book would be familiar to us with its inherent teachings of wanting us to be good & upholding the 'right' moral values.  Whilst this book would be deemed fictitious, Ha Jin's portrayal of Chinese is very real, at times, of their callous nature & their narrow focus in seeking for the dollar sign. & Chinese's propensity to sell their own souls to be wealthier.  With the wide usage of internet & through China's acceptance into the world arena, the gap between Chinese thinking & Western minds are definitely narrowed but still, it hasn't reached there yet.  Perhaps, this book is a time capsule capturing the Chinese moment as it happens now & many hundred years from today, this book would be regarded as a masterpiece, akin to the Chinese classics, The Dream of Red Pavillion which did exactly just that.  Highly recommended	2002-09-08
US	51378626	R2CDZNJABKJSJD	1841952753	632623358	Happiness	Books	4	0	1	N	N	meany but funny	Is happiness necessary THE thing that we are striving for, and are we going to be complacent once we get to &quot;nirvana&quot;?  This satire or black comedy was a blast to read.  I have eagerly awaiting for Will's book after I read his travel book regarding his hitch hiking experience in Japan.  And who would have thought that his conversion from a travel writer to a novel writer would be that seamless akin to Shania Twain crossed his country root into pop.  Anyhow, the issue about achieving a sense of complacency, zen were dealt with in movies such as Demolition Man (where there was this underground group fighting the real world when swearing, wearing slack clothings, etc. were strictly prohibited) &amp; Holy Man (starred Eddie Murphy, of this mysterious guy who seemed to have be taken in by the public realm), and the bottomline is always the same, that underneath the coating of happiness, there was unhappiness lurking &amp; thus, the motivation to making it happen, &amp; the writer's intention to convey the message that only by living in the real world that we start to appreciate the beauty of living a life that is full.  In a way, this novel is fresh by trademarking happiness, but the analysis of the state of mind in this form has been done before but none has done it as satisfactorily as Will's effort, &amp; what a splendid effort that he's done for his first outing on fictitious stuff, which I certain there would be many to come to turn the readers' world upside down with roars of laughter &amp; yet, keeping us intellectually challenged &amp; stirring our imagination as we go.  Highly recommended to the skeptics.  You won't be disappointed.  Live, love, &amp; learn!!	2002-08-29
US	51378626	R1W7U78E9EYHWN	0887307043	748298009	The Ecology of Commerce: A Declaration of Sustainability	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The Bible for the Millennium &amp; Beyond	I have been using the triple bottom line reporting template to run our business, that is profitability to the company and not compromising our environment, and causing any undesirable impact upon our society.  Ultimately, it is to fulfill one thing &amp; one thing only: sustainability.  At times, I am disllusioned by the whole thing as other people are skeptical of our motivations &amp; that they wondered why we are paying more to certain services &amp; products providers when we could get them cheaper elsewhere.  Well, this book brings it on home that we are doing it for our future generations, and that, we must act now before it is too late to turn the tide.  There are facts &amp; figures to justify the claims (even though the author emphasised that he tried to reflect the situations rather than scaring readers into doing something).  The author also stressed that we have to bring the environmentalists &amp; the corporations to sit down together to come out with remedies that are going to be satisfactory to both sides.  There are so many things that that could be executed long time ago but personal interests simply outweigh the necesssity of change.  It all has to do with greed.  The reason that corporations are indifferent about the whole thing is due to out-of-sight, out-of-mind idealogy.  How sad that is to note that when Asian countries are supposedlyt free from colonialism, in fact, colonialism is still very much intact, but simply in another form.  This time, the Asian countries can't see their masters because their masters exists in the form of dollar sign, depleting their resources (also in the form of labour) to produce products at elpo cheaper price in order to compete in the global market.  Changes must start from the top &amp; unless that happens, there is so much that the little people could &amp; would achieve.  Yes, it is wonderful to note that we do recycling from our own home but that feat is simply too minute to do any drastic change to our environment.  The action is pure simple, that is having us imitating nature &amp; a determination to do it for the long hold not out of personal interests but for the intangible faith that there is sunny day ahead for our future generations.  Isn't it obvious that this message is not sinking in with any governments.  When election day comes, there are promises about tax cuts, about creating jobs, &amp; when has sustainability become a main topic?  An ambitious book cajoling all of us to make a difference, and so must we.  A must read, &amp; a book that gives myself so much insight &amp; so much reasons to continue fighting.	2002-07-27
US	51378626	R2VVKYR25SD88	0312267177	568984342	Catfish and Mandala: A Two-Wheeled Voyage Through the Landscape and Memory of Vietnam	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A great find	I was getting bloated with those novels about the authors facing enormous hardships and after going against the grain, they made it to the other side of the tunnel victorious.  Naturally, they also made quite a bundle of royalty by sharing their feats with the readers.  Well, for the young generations, we were a bit cynical and life is more complicated than that.  We couldn't possibly relate or emphatise with those authors mentioned earlier as their feats were simply too two dimensional or perhaps, too good to be true.  This novel was a great find, & we could comprehend about his voicing of trying to establish his identity.  When Caucasians remarked him to go home, where was he supposed to go when USA has been his home for most part of his life anyway? The same applied to a friend of mine who faced the same predicament.  He was born in USA & he speaks English & English only but due to the colour of the skin, he has been treated differently.  Then, it's about the complexity of getting along with the family members when generations of young & new share very different values.  The elderly would think that spanking their children would be good to the young when that was the only mechanism passed on from their parents & the parents before them.  For the new country however, spanking is deemed to be counterproductive & would only have the young generation rebelling against the old.  Then, it's the journey, the journey of seeing the world, & the journey of discovering our own self.  When we get to our so-called homeland, what was supposed to be homecoming became anti-climatic when we wouldn't relate to to the locals at all even though they all look & speak like us.  This novel is also an unplugged version of the Lonely Planet, destination Vietnam.  We were given a glimpse of the best & the worst aspects of the country. At times, the stories were funny, at times, reflective, & at odd times, disturbing & heart-felt.  Just like life, we laughed, we cried, we tensed, we enthused with the author's adventures & misadventures & gave a sigh of relief when he finally finished the round trip a survivor, albeit a bit shaken by the whole ordeal.  The concept of flashbacks & going back in time & to the present had us readers begging for more.  Definitely a worthwhile read & highly recommended	2002-07-21
US	51378626	R2KA7EQLA8IREV	0714839841	612893177	The House Book	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Sumptuous Feast For The Eyes	A roof over our head is a need just as the air that we breathe, the food that we consume, &amp; the water that we drink.  As human gradually evolves &amp; that our mind is getting more complex, a house doesn't serve the need simply but it also has become a form of expression, a display of the occupants' personality &amp;/or their wealth, bringing into fruition an ideal or an -ism, &amp;/or a culmination of both.  Irrespective of which countries we're going to, &amp; what cultures we immerse ourselves into, we still need a house to go home to.  And the &quot;House Book&quot; delves into the residential end of architecture scale by showing us all range of houses that transcend boundaries, dollar value, time.  I view this book as a collage of 500 houses.  I wish certain iconic houses could be discussed further with provision of additional pictures but what we are provided with are simply pictures taken from the most potent angles, which supposedly do the most justice to the houses.  Having said that, I would opt the strengths &amp; weaknesses are exposed &amp; they are to be judged by their own merits but then, the size of the book would have been increased quite significantly &amp; so does the cost of owning the book.  Still, this is an exceptional book with high grade quality pictures, good summary, good end notes for us to delve into a particular style, particular countries.  At the end of the book, there is also an index of further information regarding houses that are available for public viewing.  Overall, a very well-done book &amp; it is featured permanently &amp; prominently on my coffee table.  Highly recommended	2002-04-05
US	51378626	R17V772J7NPPFS	044022103X	10089389	One True Thing: Love What You Have	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Simple But True	This book conveyed many of the author's belief of how to lead a simple but happy life.  It also doesn't differ much from Paul Theroux's catchphrase of: Simplify, Simplify, Simplify.  When the main character of \\"One True Thing\\" was thrown into the deep end, she finally realised that what mattered in her life was being able to reconcile with her loved ones.  It's true that we always put ourselves ahead of our parents, and that they could be a pain at our backside at times, and that, they could yack from dusk to dawn but ultimately, it doesn't hide the fact that they are still our parents.  The author wrote portrayed her thought through the main character that she had the fear of losing her dying mother but what bothered her the most was perhaps, her inability to get to know her as a person before she died.  Sometimes, silence speaks volume and only when that one true person (thing) is there no longer that we start to appreciate things that we used to take for granted.  Then, she also wrote about misunderstanding through non-communication.  As years go by, we only find out later that we tend to think for the worst when the other person doesn't think of us that way at all.  Be in touch, albeit how busy or how unimportant the gesture is!  A simple book which is written beautifully.  I haven't seen the movie yet but I certainly hope that it lives up to this book and my expectation.  Highly recommended.	2002-02-12
US	51378626	RAHD4F9NQ4R0A	0714839094	972029653	John Pawson Works	Books	4	9	9	N	N	simplified but not simplicity	If readers have come across Deyan Sudjic's works before (namely, the Architecture Park), then, you have a fairly good idea of what to expect from this book.  I always find Deyan's books to be hugely entertaining &amp; informative at the same time, &amp; I can't help but noticing that Deyan is a strong advocate of architecture, not discussing about the literati of it all but discussing about the interaction among people that are concerned in creating spaces for their consumptions.  John Pawson is a superarchitect who started his career reasonably late in his thirties but thru a mixture of his talent, hard work, sheer luck in getting recognised, his stature in the architecture world is phenomena.  I wouldn't rate him as one of those cerebral architects such as Stephen Holl, Steve Eisenmann, Frank Gehry, Frank Meier, etc. but what he does, he does it in his own way, &amp; with style.  Perhaps, one of the saying that depicts him succinctly would be, if it's working, why fix it.  By glancing thru all his works, readers might find that they all have those quiet contemplation ambiance with a touch of Eastern Zen (not surprising considering that he spent 4 years of his life teaching in Japan), &amp; modernism.  John also applies the fundamentals of architecture by emphasising upon form, mass, &amp; repetition.  Here, we are privileged to read about the process that John went thru with his few featured high profiled clients, who inherently share his values.  Some of the works are as followings: Calvin Klein, Martha Stewart, Cathay Pacific, Obumex Kitchen, Faggionato Apartment, Pawson's own house, Young Vic.  Presentation of this Phaidon's book is high quality, &amp; even though it's a nice touch by using different tones of whites &amp; grays to give it a Pawson's feel to it, it might be difficult to read in a less than well-lit room, &amp; some of the building plans were so small &amp; miniscule &amp; without the necessary aid such as magnifying glass, it's not really easy to look at the plans in detail.  Labelling of the spaces would come in handy, naturally.  Chronology, index, &amp; acknowledgements at the end of the book &amp; a potrait of John Pawson do give us a fairly good idea of his accomplishments, &amp; about the man himself.  In terms of defining John Pawson, I think this book has done just that.  Enjoyable to read &amp; as a coffee table book, it wouldn't disappoint.  Highly recommended.	2001-11-26
US	51378626	RK7S89YHEBAU3	0714838179	809920659	Minimum - Mini Edition (Phaidon Miniature Editions)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Maximum Impact From a Minimum Book?	This Phaidon book is massive in size &amp; it's heavy too.  I find it less satisfying to read than John Pawson Works written by Deyan Sudjic but nevertheless, since that Minimum is compiled by the superarchitect himself, we are provided with an insight of different things, which inspired him at his works.  This book is dominated by visuals, &amp; some of the pictures were taken by Ezra Stoller (&amp; there's a book specifically dedicated to this great photographer emphasising upon modernist works).  Perhaps, a picture tells a million stories but the preface by John Pawson himself is the most effective piece in the whole book.  Perhaps, it's fair to comment that the usage of minimalism in architecture has become a cliche now because John Pawson is frustrated that the word is used for the sake of been used when architecture should be dwelved deeper which he has done &amp; endeavouring to continue doing so.  Perhaps, not the best featured book about or by the superarchitect but still, it's a book that shouldn't be missed.  Recommended.	2001-11-26
US	51378626	R2JXH15HGY3VK5	1579120784	576100407	Moments: The Pulitzer Prize Photographs	Books	4	0	0	N	N	jogging down the memory lane	This book captured all those essential moments in time, &amp; the title said it all, really.  It started from year 1942 &amp; ended in 1999.  Just like the movie, Pleasantville, it started with B&amp;W pictures but as the technology gets better &amp; more viable, colour pictures took over but still, never underestimated the raw drama &amp; power of B&amp;W pictures, though.  The editing of this splendid coffee table book is quite clever by segregating it into various eras describing the technology &amp; techniques available during that time (involving taking, printing, transmitting the pictures) &amp; then, drawing a parellel with what's going on in this world right there, right then.  I didn't appreciate the intensity of the pictures when I was younger but as I'm older now &amp; sitting through reading thru this book, it brought back many memories, some good, some bad.  And this book is also clever enough to provide time graph with more pertinent pictures to run us through  the time passed.  It's quite emotionally draining &amp; disturbing at times to read that some photographers risked it all including their lives just to share the moments with the rest of the world, &amp; how much the pictures affected some photographers here that they took away their own lives.  All &amp; all, this is a book that celebrates humanity, abhors at evil that humans would do to one another, reminds us all of the vulnerability against Mother Nature, the appreciation of simple things in life, &amp; so forth.  A very engaging book &amp; worth reading.  Highly recommended.	2001-11-09
US	51378626	RLF5E2LB3327N	0449003582	790565762	The Fortunate Pilgrim	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Such a beautiful book	As written in the preface by Mario Puzo, this book was his all time favourite.  Even though it didn't sell as well as his other blockbusters, readers would sense how personal it was to Mario Puzo.  It was written with grace &amp; eloquence and for once, it only briefly touched upon mafioso.  Rather, the book emphasised upon the mother of a family, Santa Lucia who went against all odds in a distant land to bring up her family.  Through the years, her life was struck by tragedies and yet, she clinged on &amp; persevered through the hard times, including the Great Depression and subsequently, World War 2.  Suffice to say that nothing is far fetched in America and your life is what you made it to be.  It is still as pertinent today as it was many years ago.  Highly recommended.	2001-10-28
US	51378626	R32WA4M8L928MT	0714839876	923087467	Modern House 2	Books	4	8	9	N	N	worthy successor to the first book	This book appropriately divides into 5 categories: environmental awareness, changing patterns of living, urban interaction, the rural retreat, concept houses of the future.  With that, we are bombarded with ideas, many of them innovative ideas that are willing to be embraced by the architects' clients &amp; in some instances, by the architects themselves.  Some houses here blend in with their surroundings, &amp; some stand out from the crowd, some that look &amp; work more like a machine, some that facilitate the lifestyle of the occupants, some are meant to be poetic, &amp; so forth, but overall, they all convey the thinkings &amp; the personalities of the people who are willing to embrace the ideas behind the buildings.  As St. Patrick of Assisi said before that stones don't build a city, but people do, &amp; ultimately, the erection of spectacular buildings conveyed in this book is all done to serve the people, which in turn are fabricated into a bigger urban picture of where they are living in.  Highly enjoyable to read &amp; browse thru, &amp; a well presented coffee book it is.  We don't expect a lesser quality book from Phaidon, to put it simply.  The book is finished by relevant chapters such as credits, further reading, index, &amp; acknowledgments.  One downside of this book, however is the usage of works of architects already covered in the first offering such as Thom Craig of Christchurch, Mathias Klotz of Chile, &amp; others that I wouldn't remember.  Then, there is the usage of small grey fonts over the white background, &amp; in many instances, the statements are simply too vague to read.	2001-10-09
US	51378626	RWFPKGIFTVKEI	1863303790	915297278	Silver sister	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Quite an Achievement	This book traced the plight of a poor young girl from rural China who was sworn into the sisterhood of maid, or better known as &quot;amah&quot; when she lost her family to famine &amp; war.  For that, they would swear to remain celibate for the rest of their entire lives.  Readers followed her journey from China, Hong Kong, Singapore, and lastly, to Australia thru the years by following her employers, who had become her extended families.  For books of such kind, we would expect to concentrate upon the plight of the character within the context of one country, &amp; because this book covered so many countries in one go, &amp; that, she lived thru those turbulent but interesting times, this book made an enjoyable read for readers who aren't familiar with the region.  For someone like myself who was brought up in South East Asia &amp; subsequently, immigrated to Australia &amp; then New Zealand, I could emphatise with the hardship &amp; the adjustment that she, or named as &quot;Silver Sister&quot; had to go thru.  There's a Chinese saying that what starts well shall end here, and this book did just that.  How appropriate it was to end the book by mentioning of Sydney became the host of Year 2000 Olympics, and how prophetic it was that the local athletes helped the country won many medals.  A rather enjoyable book to read and it was voted the first runner up for the 1993 Angus &amp; Robertson Bookword Prize.	2001-09-24
US	51378626	R2VWOCGHT0GA0P	0374270325	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Sumptuous offering	I always enjoyed Tom Wolfe's novel.  And I liked the way he wrote his novel.  Tom developed the characters separately but gradually, and as always, their lives would cross path eventually and thus, a finale with a twist.  With Tom's novel, there was always the essential social commentary, highlighting a marked contrast between those who lived on the verge of bread-line, and those who lived excessively &amp; decadently; the touchy issue about race, sex; the ugly side of politics that never seemed to serve the interest of the people who voted the politicians into their office but rather, to satisfy &amp; to quench the thirst of politicians for power &amp; greed.  This summary is too simplistic of Tom Wolfe's offering but enthusiastic readers would be bewitched by his almost too perfect narratives.  I couldn't resist putting the novel down until the very last words were savoured.  Definitely a feast to be had.  Highly recommended.	2001-09-21
US	51378626	R32NI33QGTEVUG	0789304929	273843990	American Contemporary Furniture	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Concise &amp; Resourceful	From the outset, this book is small compared with many other fine furniture books but its content doesn't lag behind &amp; even surpasses many other offerings by its sheer resourefulness &amp; succinctness. The layout could be defined as multi-media with clean fonts used, abundant of embossed pictures &amp; diagrams used, highlighted quotes by prominent furniture designers. Even though this is an American Contemporary Furniture Book, which emphasises upon the trends of the West, the Middle, &amp; the East of the States, the influential furniture designers originated from elsewhere (other countries) such as Karem Rashid, M. Ali Tayar, &amp; many others. This book addressed the reason United States is still lagging behind its European counterpart is because of the majority Americans, which still cling to its colonial heritage; the lack of infrastructure, network, &amp; the emphasis upon designers. Even though Karem Rashid is gradually going towards super stardom with support from Umbra, United States still doesn't have designers with superstar status equivalent to Philippe Starck, Alessandro Mendini, Ettore Sotsass, &amp; so forth. It then continued to say that United States is gradually warming up to contemporary futniture with the emergence of the &quot;3rd generation&quot;, a hybrid between the modernism &amp; the post modernism schools, &amp; influenced by global consumerism &amp; dematerialisation. Suffice to say that examples provided in this book is broad, index of designers &amp; furniture &amp; selected stores at the end of the book come in handy. To justify United States as a huge melting pot infused by many ideas from all fronts, which trascends into its contemporary furniture, we wouldn't have to wander far than noting the authors &amp; editors of this book, who come from diverse backgrounds &amp; interests. I thoroughly enjoyed this book &amp; would recommend anyone who wants to have a general interest in the contemporary furniture movement in United States or simply furniture enthusiast to seek it out. Enjoy!	2001-09-21
US	51378626	R2B07MO5HJKXQX	1569472343	401690791	Hokkaido Highway Blues	Books	4	2	3	N	N	What a cracker!	This book is a rare find.  When I got the book, I didn't know what to expect but the moment I start reading it, I was hooked &amp; four hundred odd pages of the author's writing flashed thru in a matter of days.  With this book, you would come across some cliche of what we expect about Japan but beware of curve balls that the author threw at you.  He wrote Japan as how he saw it, of his pursuance of cherry blossoms from the south to the most northern tip of Japan.  As described by the author, he wanted to embrace Japan as one of them rather than observing it as a spectator.  The best way to do it would be thru hitch-hiking (which was actually illegal as we read close to the end).  He proclaimed himself to be a creature of comfort &amp; wouldn't resort himself getting reflective &amp; grumpy by walking the whole Japan as Alan Booth did (another critically acclaimed author who wrote about Japan).  Needless to say, along the way, Will met interesting people ranging from the down to earth, to the eccentric, to the despondent, to the rude, to those who would bend over backward just to help him secure a ride to the next town, &amp; so forth.  Will also wrote about capsule hotel, love hotel, pachinko machine, noh theatre, kabuki theatre, sumo wrestling, drum troupe that transcended generations, Akuti bijin (pretty Japanese ladies from Akuti), &amp; many other &quot;Don Quixote&quot;'s adventures as how he saw it.  Will also shared with us his tricks of securing free beer &amp; food &amp; even accommodation, his sympathy for the Japanese working class men who would chip in their life for the sake of their corporation &amp; yet, they are nobody in the eyes of corporation &amp; when the sun goes down, they downed their sorrow singing Frank Sinatra's number, &quot;My Way&quot; in karaoke &amp; &quot;that&quot; annoying &quot;Diana&quot; number, his fascination with Godzilla, his avoidance of world war 2 issues which put him in between a rock &amp; a hard place with Japanese elders, his come to terms with love and hate relationships of Japan and its people.  In the end, it's about embracing Japan's paradox, everything it does is proclaimed as number 1 by Japanese &amp; yet, the Japanese agrees that Japan is a small &amp; poor country!  This is not just another dull &amp;  informative Lonely Planet Travel Guide which Will himself used &amp; which brought him into trouble with the local law enforcer but a book that is full of twists &amp; surprises.  Having said that, if readers are not used to the cynical &amp; sarcastic works of Will, don't say that you have not been warned!  Highly recommended.	2001-08-19
US	51378626	R212IPXVEM1AWD	0688163130	98516654	The House of Gucci: A Sensational Story of Murder, Madness, Glamour, and Greed	Books	4	23	24	N	N	tour de force	This book is surprisingly entertaining &amp; yet informative at the same time.  Here, we read about Gucci's humble beginning (against the myth of the family beginning as saddle makers), the personalities in the family (namely, Aldo &amp; Rodolfo &amp; subsequently, moving on to the younger generations, Maurizio, Paolo), the ongoing battles ensued among themselves for business control, the loyalty of Gucci employees, the estrangment of the employees against the new team brought in by Maurizio to turn Gucci around, the murder of Maurizio Gucci, the trial which brought his estranged wife, Patrizia Gucci &amp; her accomplice to jail, Maurizio's vision which involved Investcorp which subsequently made Gucci into a corporate name, the significance of American outsiders such as Dawn Mello, Domenico de Sole, Tom Ford which spearheaded Gucci into a new direction altogether (from bag &amp; leather products into ready to wear apparels) &amp; indirectly, tranformed the fashion industry forever by inspiring other fashion houses to do the same ie. listed in the sharemarket to fend off competitors and to survive in the game &amp; attainment of synergy thru multi brands under the same umbrella, the fighting off hostile takeover bid by LMVD led by Arnault thru marriage with Pinault.  The book is written in a way that we feel as if we are in the thick of incidents.  B&amp;W pictures provided were handy.  There is never a dull moment in this book.  Highly recommended and great effort for the first time author.	2001-08-11
US	51378626	R1XKHWTBU3AIU4	0374103828	482567189	Hooking Up	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Deliciously witty but insightful	Like David Remnick, Tom Wolfe's background was journalism before he ventured into the novel territory.  I heard so much about Tom Wolfe and the hooha that he generated (even featured in the Times magazine) when his much awaited novel (which took one decade to write) was released into the market few yrs back.  Thru blind faith, I sourced this book &amp; read it, hoping that his work did live up to his name.  &quot;Hooking Up&quot; is a book with a mixed element comprises of social commentaries and a novella.  Some of them highly interesting, some of them I just couldn't bother with but they all revealed America from the inside out, just as Tom Wolfe did for &quot;Bonfire of the Vanities&quot; by showing to us the rot within the American society.  Highlights in this book, for me anyway, would be the changes of American society towards the sex issue, when sex is sex, the comparison of phases of intimacy between now &amp; 30 yrs ago; the transformation of Santa Clara Valley into what's better known as Silicon Valley nowadays, the description of two men (Noyce in particular) who brought with them a new corporate culture, invention over brawn which projected America to be the ultimate self-made billionaires' haven; intriguing insight into the research which allows human being to see what the others are thinking and what their minds are functioning to, and questioning the validity of human's soul, whether it's the rite thing to be playing God; the novella about homophobia in the army; lastly, the parodying of The New Yorker being a living dinasour.  The whole book is compelling to read, and for Americans that are within their own shorelines, perhaps, what's written here they could live without as they have already known the facts but for us out there who are clamouring to understand the American society better, this book is a revelation.  Highly recommended.	2001-08-05
US	51378626	R1PM084AYZ6J94	379131727X	755178745	Daniel Libeskind: Radix Matrix	Books	4	1	1	N	N	To Be or Not To Be?	It's really difficult to describe Daniel Libeskind's works when he doesn't profess himself to be an architect &amp; yet, claiming that he's not a non-architect either.  So, what is he?  Anyway, his work is very abstract &amp; cerebral.  Daniel is a very eclectic &amp; talented individual, with degrees in music, mathematics, architecture &amp; upon submitting his pieces for competitions, he actually used music sheet!  Then, he questioned if the outcome of the competitions was decided by a panel of jury, &amp; was that the rite thing to do.  In many instances, readers might feel that we're getting somewhere in understanding his works &amp; subsequently, a curveball would be thrown &amp; we would end up just as confused as when we first started.  Suffice to say that he's an urban planner, looking at the overall picture, believes in evolution of designs which would benefit future generations.  He argued that his high profile work for the connection between the Berlin Museum &amp; the Jewish Museum might be nicknamed &quot;zigzag&quot; but in actuality, in real life, its presence conveys something otherwise.  If readers could look beyond his supposedly desconstructive work, he's in fact a traditionalist &amp; a realist.  Daniel is forever arguing with himself &amp; there's nothing more enjoyable to him than engaging in discussions.  I wish that there were more pictures of his works but most of them were taken in a hurry, or that they were pictures of models.  There were also descriptions of some kinds of his modern art works &amp; sculptures (or machines)? The writings at the end of the book is intensive reading, but there's undeniable of Daniel's depth &amp; it's about time someone of his calibre racks up the architecture world with his avant-garde thinking.  Other projects worth reading here are Alexanderplatz, Berlin; The Spiral: Extension to the Victoria &amp; Albert Museum; Jewish Community Centre &amp; Synagogue, Duisburg; &amp; so forth.  Not for the faint-heartedbut highly recommended.	2001-07-26
US	51378626	R18H844D7B71TA	1854372920	592338012	Building Tate Modern: Herzog & De Meuron	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A Testimony For a Humble International Modern Gallery	If readers simply want to have a general overview of the making of Tate Modern Gallery, perhaps, this book is suffice.  Should the readers be curious of cogs &amp; wheels that create the Tate Modern machine, then, there's another superb book that shouldn't be missed.  It is called &quot;The Power of Art&quot; written by Karl Sabbagh.  Perhaps, these 2 books should be combined as a total reading experience so that there's nothing is amissed.  The deficiency of &quot;The Power of Art&quot; is that it contains too few pictures but the shortcoming is succumbed by the author's inquisitive observations &amp; countless interviews with all pertinent professionals, which were all recorded down in his confident but fluid writing style.  I enjoyed every moment reading about the showdowns among architects (Tadao Ando, Renzo Piano, Herzog &amp; de Meuron, Rem Koolhas, Rafael Moneo, David Chipperfield during the competition stage) &amp; subsequently, between Herzog &amp; Norman Foster regarding linking the Millennium Bridge with the Tate Modern itself, showdowns between architects &amp; engineers, headaches &amp; traumas of completing the project on time &amp; on budget, unforseen circumstances which were never expected in the scheduling, clashes of personalities, inner politicking, different mindset between professionals &amp; builders, reality is different from the model set, comparisons between it &amp; the Paul Getty Centre, &amp; Bilbao Guggenheim, how the presentation was going to flow, the election of the new gallery director, the parody or mannerism of Herzog &amp; de Meuron (the firm), the PR exercise conducted between the Gallery &amp; its surrounding neighbours, the selection of a new landscape architect Kienast Vogt Partner, the professionals' obsession with toilets, &amp; so forth.  &quot;Building Tate Modern&quot; however, ignored the &quot;tasty&quot; bit by simply informed the readers briefly of every &amp; each process.  Pictures took precedent in this presentation &amp; the quality was adequate.  The index for the building plans, nevertheless, was too small for naked eyes. What &quot;Building Tate Modern&quot; exceeds Karl Sabbagh's book is mostly the allocation of one chapter to explain Bankside Power Station &amp; its architect, Giles Gilbert Scott before it was finally converted. These 2 books are 2 different kettle of fish together &amp; therefore, it's impossible to say which one precedes the other.  Suffice to say that both publications tried to do justice to the Modern Gallery by presenting it in formats which authors &amp; publishers deemed best.  An experience not to be missed.	2001-07-25
US	51378626	RP5A1VC8I5519	0679777520	817069964	The Devil Problem: And Other True Stories	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Inquisitive journalism	Some readers might question why David Remnick revisited incidents that happened long time ago, but the book itself is still a wonderful read.  The book tackled with several notable characters that mattered to the United States but for outsiders like myself, this book is a gem for providing me with backgrounds upon characters like Alger Hiss (one episode of &quot;West Wing&quot; dealt with the grand daughter of a dying man, based upon Alger Hiss' character who sought a pardon from the President before he passed away), George Stephanopoulos (who played a pivotal role in the Clinton's campaign &amp; his head to head with Dick Morris (again, reminding us of &quot;West Wing&quot;), Marion Barry (the article questioned if segregation in the States is working better than integration, &amp; relating that with the the recent Southern State of Mississipi debacle over retaining the Rebel Cross in its flag or not), Elaine Pagles (which brought to our attention the origin of Devil &amp; questioned over the validity of Christianity in contemporary setting comparing it against Dead Sea Scroll), &amp; so forth.  For light-hearted moment, there were articles on Michael Jordan &amp; Dennis Rodman (describing the icon that the initial has become, &amp; the honesty of the latter populist who is enjoying the moment for who he is).  Then, there were articles upon international characters such as Gerry Adams (which possibly hinted that a terrorist shall always remain a terrorist irrespective of the PR exercise to make him who he's not), the celebration of Kenzaburo Oe's works which were inspired by his undying devotion to his handicapped child, Hikari Oe, who himself was acclaimed as an accomplished musician).  Writing is David Remnick's passion &amp; journalism has been part of his life &amp; he wouldn't let the chance slip by without writing of 3 distinctive news personalities such as Ben Bradlee (cliche of networking &amp; manipulation thru media via influential people), Al Neuharth (of making every news positive reading by all people), Murray Kempton (of bringing dignity &amp; integrity into the art of journalism).  Needless to say, news is perishable.  Today's news is history tomorrow &amp; much of what's featured here are history now but it's good to read of the past so that we undertood more profoundly of what made USA today, &amp; the celebration of the art of inquisitive journalism.  Highly recommended.	2001-07-22
US	51378626	R1AR3BCAFA07HO	0679777520	817069964	The Devil Problem: And Other True Stories	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Inquisitive journalism	Some readers might question why David Remnick revisited incidents that happened long time ago, but the book itself is still a wonderful read.  The book tackled with several notable characters that mattered to the United States but for outsiders like myself, this book is a gem for providing me with backgrounds upon characters like Alger Hiss (one episode of &quot;West Wing&quot; dealt with the grand daughter of a dying man, based upon Alger Hiss' character who sought a pardon from the President before he passed away), George Stephanopoulos (who played a pivotal role in the Clinton's campaign &amp; his head to head with Dick Morris (again, reminding us of &quot;West Wing&quot;), Marion Barry (the article questioned if segregation in the States is working better than integration, &amp; relating that with the the recent Southern State of Mississipi debacle over retaining the Rebel Cross in its flag or not), Elaine Pagles (which brought to our attention the origin of Devil &amp; questioned over the validity of Christianity in contemporary setting comparing it against Dead Sea Scroll), &amp; so forth.  For light-hearted moment, there were articles on Michael Jordan &amp; Dennis Rodman (describing the icon that the initial has become, &amp; the honesty of the latter populist who is enjoying the moment for who he is).  Then, there were articles upon international characters such as Gerry Adams (which possibly hinted that a terrorist shall always remain a terrorist irrespective of the PR exercise to make him who he's not), the celebration of Kenzaburo Oe's works which were inspired by his undying devotion to his handicapped child, Hikari Oe, who himself was acclaimed as an accomplished musician).  Writing is David Remnick's passion &amp; journalism has been part of his life &amp; he wouldn't let the chance slip by without writing of 3 distinctive news personalities such as Ben Bradlee (cliche of networking &amp; manipulation thru media via influential people), Al Neuharth (of making every news positive reading by all people), Murray Kempton (of bringing dignity &amp; integrity into the art of journalism).  Needless to say, news is perishable.  Today's news is history tomorrow &amp; much of what's featured here are history now but it's good to read of the past so that we undertood more profoundly of what made USA today, &amp; the celebration of the art of inquisitive journalism.  Highly recommended.	2001-07-22
US	51378626	R2CCN1EC1YFSR1	1568361610	885308072	After Sorrow: An American Among the Vietnamese (Kodansha Globe)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Long Winded But Essential	From her experience living together with the common people, Lady Borton is able to reveal to us the main reason why the Americans failed to win the war in Vietnam.  In fact, the war is already lost even before it began.  Vietnamese is those special breed of people that's enormously proud of their country &amp; should Americans have learnt about Vietnamese history, then, they would have to think twice before deciding to chip in efforts in assisting the French, &amp; subsequently, to fight against communism.  It so happened that after interviewing the common people, they were not fighting the Americans for communism but they simply wanted to win the right to enjoy their lives, to live as a free person with their own people.  We also learnt of women's significant contribution towards the cause.  Along the way, they lost their loved ones, &amp; many became victims to chemical warfare conducted by the Americans.  Surprisingly, many Vietnamese don't have ill-feelings against Americans because they always regarded the American Government differently from the Americans.  The book also gives us a glimpse of their cultures (celebration of Tet &amp; New Year), difference beween North &amp; South Vietnam.  To make the reading more interesting, there were pictures taken of the author with her new found friends ie. villagers, drawing of villages layouts, map of Vietnam, outline of Vietnam history, description of Vietnamese terms, relevant poems to start every &amp; each chapters written by Vietnamese nationalists &amp; poets.  I don't find the book particularly captivating to read as it's quite long winded describing every little details about domestic chores.  For those that yearn to feel the essence of villagers' life, perhaps, it's worth the while.  Still, this doesn't deter the author's goal of reconciling between the States &amp; Vietnam, &amp; thus, the title of the book, After Sorrow.	2001-07-13
US	51378626	R3HKN76NTLLJAB	0671760785	144518009	Muhammad Ali: A Thirty Year Journey	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Captivating &amp; Heart Warming	This photograph journal traced Muhammad Ali's 30 years journey thru life.  It started with introductory notes written by the Man himself &amp; his wife (Lonnie Ali), Bill Cosby, Nelson Mandela, Henry Cooper (just to name a few), mainly discussing the bond between the photographer &amp; the man himself, how they percepted the great boxer on &amp; off the limelight.  Muhammad Ali wasn't simply the loud mouth, the lover, the Islam, the winner, the loser, but truth to be told, he's also a devoted son to his parents, a loving father to his children, a dedicated husband to his wives, the charitable one to the downtrodden, the funny bone, the generosity one towards humankind, a courageous fighter who's fighting the greatest battle of his life against the Parkinson Disease, but mostly, he's like one of us, a mortal who needs a friend during his most fragile hour and that friend he found in Howard Bingham.  Thru his lens, &amp; without censorship from the Man, we caught a glimpse of Muhammad Ali that we rarely saw from other footage &amp; only then, we realised he's not that icon that we grew up with but he's simply one of our kind.  This journal is compiled with much thoughts &amp; sensibility &amp; it's such a joy &amp; heart warming to browse thru.  A complementary journal that goes well with the book, King of the World written by David Remnick.  Highly recommended.	2001-07-07
US	51378626	R3KGPNW9O7RQZT	0810938162	431002303	Modern Architecture : Photographs by Ezra Stoller	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Magnifique~	This handsome coffee table book describes modern architecture not by words but by photographs taken thru the lens of Ezra Stoller, who is fortunate enough to work with many superarchitects of the 20th century.  Most of the buildings covered were taken in United States &amp; many of them were in black &amp; white format.  The book started with an essay written by William Saunders, explaining to readers why Ezra's work is a cut above the rest of other photographers'.  William commented that Ezra opted to have the buildings did the talking rather than glorifying the buildings by using camera tricks, or conveying them in arty forms.  The main reason why Ezra was captivated by modern architecture is due to its celebration of form, space, depth, simplicity, &amp; timeless appeal.  Ezra also made sure that photographs taken were in context with its surroundings.  At times, his works were depicted in poignant manner, at times, poetic, &amp; occasionally witty.  What readers might not realise was the extent of preparations Ezra &amp; his assistant went into ensuring the photographs taken of the subjects were what he intended in his imagination.  Notes provided by Ezra himself describing his favourite photographs were interesting to read, gave us a glimpse of the architects' thought upon their own works.  The book was ended with notes, bibliography, &amp; index.  A brilliant book to have, &amp; a book that you would refer to again &amp; again.  Highly recommended.	2001-07-06
US	51378626	R2DNNAUJ69F0B	0375702296	993234858	King of the World: Muhammad Ali and the Rise of an American Hero	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An Inspiration for All People	I dislike reading biographies &amp; autobiographies that made the central characters larger than life, or elevate them to demi-God status.  This book has none of that.  And yet, everything about Muhammed Ali is larger than life.  The book described the  circumstances &amp; Muhammed Ali's self-belief which elevated him to a hero or anti-hero status.   If the readers were David Remnick's fan, then, you would appreciate the writer's eloquent style &amp; his in-depth research &amp; interviews, as displayed in his work of Lenin's Tomb, which won him the revered Pulitzer's Prize.  Here, Muhammed Ali (previously Cassius Clay) is depicted not simply as a boxer, but also an icon who epitomises the turbulent 60's America, a country which was divided into 2 nations, the whites &amp; the blacks.  Muhammed Ali is a symbol of defiance for his people as he refused to be drafted into the army to fight a war that's none of his concern, a symbol of beauty and skill and courage, a symbol of faith, a symnbol of racial pride, of wit, and love.  He also represented boxing of the new era by not having any connection with the mobs who had the tendency to fix the fights. Moreover, Muhammed Ali disregarded the bad words that sportswriters (used to be dominated by the whites) wrote about him.  As time goes on, it's fascinating to read that his undying belief changed his critics rather than the other around.  He was THE man, accomplished goals that he set up to do and there were times when he doubted himself but nevertheless, with a  cumulation of sheer luck and sheer persistency that he beat against all odds.  Now, as he is eaten up gradually but definitely by the Parkinson's disease, he was at peace with himself thru his total devotion to Islam &amp; its cause.  To add layers or dimensions into Muhammed Ali's persona, David wrote about heavyweight champions of yesteryears particularly Floyd Patterson &amp; Sonny Liston, &amp; champions of the present day such as Mike Tyson &amp; Evander Holyfield so that we would appreciate in-depth of what makes Muhammed Ali the king of the world of all times.  We would also read about Muhammed Ali's life intertwined with Malcolm X's, his involvement with the Islam Nation &amp; Elijah Muhammed, his background &amp; relationships with his family, people that he engaged with, him being a simple &amp; humble man behind the limelight &amp; so forth.  Nobody makes Muhammed Ali but himself, a boxer, a promoter all blended into one.  It was such a touching moment to finally read of him holding the Olympic torch at the summer games in Atlanta, which was a milestone for the man himself.  It was a captivating &amp; intense book to read.  The book also contains several significant black and white pictures of Muhammed Ali.  Highly recommended.	2001-07-06
US	51378626	R13ZHGDG2BIRMX	2879391059	39552210	Jean Nouvel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good reference book	This 206 pages reference book briefly gave us a glimpse of Jean Nouvel's accomplishment.  The introduction told us of Jean's anti-establishment past, his evolution from embracing pop-culture (on the same wavelength as Robert Venturi) &amp; subsequently, to tectonic architecture.  Here, we started to appreciate his depth, his versatility, his vision in undertaking small &amp; major projects alike; urban planning; residential, industrial, &amp; commercial buildings.  Some of the highlights would be the Opera House at Lyon, Cartier Building at Paris, Building at Berlin, The Arab World Institute, Paris.  Towards the end of the book, there was a list of his principal projects &amp; buildings from 1970 to 1996, his biography, &amp; professionals that he is working with.  It was a rather easy book to handle with plenty of pictures, &amp; descriptions conveyed in 3 main languages: English, German, French respectively.  For readers who want to read more about his latest works, perhaps, a new edition is waiting in the pipeline?  Well-worth browsing through.	2001-06-28
US	51378626	RDM05YQHIP0B0	0425179230	153007205	Point of Impact (Tom Clancy's Net Force, Book 5)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Enjoyable	Net Force was at it again, using their most sophisticated technology available &amp; the cumulative mental &amp; physical skills of the whole team to capture two evasive drug dealers, whose product would transform an average Joe into a Superman.  The pharmaceutical company was hunting them down due to the drug's marketability, the Government was doing the same thing too for it poses major security threat to the country should it fall into the wrong hand.  A highly enjoyable pulp fiction as long as we don't take it seriously, &amp; enough twists to keep us guessing till the very end.	2001-06-28
US	51378626	R3SVANBMLIO4ZP	0375502548	684734174	Omerta (Godfather, Book 3)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	True vintage	Omerta is written in a way that readers would be able to imagine the scenes vividly as almost all of Mario Puzo's works have since become major movies or TV mini-series. Interests in America's mafiosos never actually gone away with offerings such as Sopranos, Donnie Brasco, Carlito's Way, Godfather trilogy, Goodfella, etc to pave the way for Omerta to become a movie in its own rite. Just like any other mafioso stories, Omerta contains plots, subplots of honourable characters, flawed characters withold traditional values or betraying partner(s) for greed respectively.  Then, there are also love interest, politics, strategies &amp; tactics utilised to outwit one another, assassination, cynicism or dark humour depending how readers see them, etc.  A book that is better left on his own devices &amp; resorting readers to enjoy it all on their own.  Trust me, you won't be disappointed.  It's that good.	2001-06-18
US	51378626	R17VQHY5K5FCWZ	014024980X	247468717	The Great Railway Bazaar: By Train Through Asia	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Modern Classic.	Reading this book is like taking a trip to the past.  The first edition of the book was actually printed in 1974 & many countries have changed since.  U.S.S.R is no longer a communist country, Iran is \\"liberated\\" by Khomeini, Afghanistan is ruled by the Talibans, Burma is better known as Myanmar, Vietnam is rebuilding itself from the aftermath of Vietnam War, India is jumping upon the bandwagon on Information Technology to catch up with the rest of the world, Pakistan has a nuclear capacity to match its neighbour(India)'s counterpart, & so forth.  Then, there are countries which are evolving or remaining stagnant such as Ceylon (Sri Lanka) which still has a divided racial problem (thus, problem with the Tamil Tiger guerillas), Singapore is still fast-paced & skycrapers dominate the landscape, Thailand a place for misadventures, predictable Japan with almost all Japanese behave in an orderly fashion, & others.  The author didn't write the book to capture the political scenes of the time but writing about the feel, the smell, the essence of the places that he came across.  There's no better way to achieve the feat by getting acquainted with passengers & staff that he came across in the train, observing the state of the trains they were in, how time schedules were adhered by the train authorities, the cornucopia of people from all facets of society that gathered at the train station akin to a bazaar.  To my antonishment, despite the book was almost 30 years old, characters of the people in their respective countries remain almost status quo & thus, reading this book now is as relevant as reading it 30 years ago.  Paul's description of the landscape is vivid & his talent in absorbing the mannerisms & slangs of those places are uncanny.  The book would be even more fun to read if he provided a glossary of explaining foreign words which he never elaborated further other than mentioning them briefly.  For example, the usage of Singlish, that is the Singapore version of English which required the addition of -lah towards the end of sentences, and -lah itself doesn't have any meaning to it would only be known to people of those region & I wouldn't expect readers from Europe would be able to grasp with that.  Paul seems to put a lot of effort in writing about the India continent & for readers who yearn to know more about India, William Darymple's books shouldn't be missed.  Still, an enjoyable book to read & a worthy companion for travelling purpose.  Highly recommended.lish which required the addition of -lah towards the end of sentences, and -lah itself doesn't have any meaning to it would only be known to people of those region & I wouldn't expect readers from Europe would be able to grasp with that.  Paul seems to put a lot of effort in writing about the India continent & for readers who yearn to know more about India, William Darymple's books shouldn't be missed.  Still, an enjoyable book to read & a worthy companion for travelling purpose.  Highly recommended.	2001-06-15
US	51378626	R395U0S3FJRGB3	0879519363	121412142	Andree Putman	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Good reference book	The book was divided into various chapters.  The introduction was allocated to describe Andree's childhood, how her inspiration came by, how she channelled her relentless energy into creating masterpieces subsequently.  Then, the book gets into business right-a-way with illustrations (with descriptions) of hotels, showrooms, offices, museums, restaurants, shops, galleries, apartments, cinema, editions &amp; licenses (for products).  The final 3 chapters were collaborators, credits, index.  For Andree's enthusiasts, I'm sure this book would appeal but for those readers who want to be behind the scene, trying to understand in-depth of the thinking &amp; designing process, then, this book is no more than a eye candy book which might disappoint.	2001-06-15
US	51378626	R1G3V59IPF72W7	0060193328	269737487	First They Killed My Father: A Daughter of Cambodia Remembers	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Punchy &amp; Gutsy	I totally understimated this book.  Whilst it wasn't thick by any standard, it was punchy &amp; gutsy.  It conveyed the story of the author's family which fall from grace as Cambodia involved itself in civil war.  To sustain their livelihood, like the rest of other families, they started to lead a nomad life, moving from one village to the other before their past caught up with them.   As the saying goes, a paper couldn't wrap around fire &amp; soon enough, her elder family members started to disappear.  Innocence was lost &amp; the author with her other siblings were forced to grow up.  Even though we would never know what happened to her parents, the author did imagine what lead to her parent's death &amp; just to read those parts alone were rather disturbing &amp; sufficient to churn my stomach.  Naturally, she grew to hate the Pol Pot regime &amp; her behaviour started to get selfish to sustain her livelihood.  Then, it was all over with Vietnam's intervention but did that imply Vietnam was the saviour?  Then, the story continued with family members reunited once again &amp; having to make a difficult decision of who should resettle overseas so that they could apply for the remainder family members to join them later on. The only downside of this book is that we weren't able to gauge how she started to assimmilate herself with her family host upon reaching Vermont, USA but it's obvious that she must have done well for herself &amp; returning to Cambodia years later with a completely changed attitude.  Her hatred has been channeled into a positive energy to become the voice for people that fall victims to landmines.  Keep up the good work &amp; a book worth reading about the senselessness of war.	2001-05-23
US	51378626	R110DWDF2V9DAY	0786863870	105944539	Ho Chi Minh: A Life	Books	4	13	18	N	N	Not for the faint hearted	William Duiker researched extensively thru all available archives to compile all the information into this book about Ho Chi Minh, the myth and the patriot.  If the readers enjoyed every little details about the developments of Uncle Ho, parties that he set up, meetings that he attended, negotiations that took place, etc., you would love this book.  But for someone like myself who wanted to learn about Uncle Ho and Vietnam along the way, I find the book to be very time consuming to read and heavy handed to remember all those party names, Vietnamese names, small towns names.  But the author did provide the readers with a heavy dose of pictures, maps of Vietnams in different periods, close ups of areas such as Dien Bien Phu which was significant for the creation of the modern Vietnam.  In this book, we read about Uncle Ho's humble upbringing; his brief &amp; tragic love life; his capture in Hong Kong which would almost cost him his life; his tireless efforts within the jungles trying to gain local support from small villages for his small but growing fast army; his extensive travel abroad; the exploitation of his own image as a simple person leading a simple life but fighting tireless for the betterment of his people; his assistance of the United States during the World War 2 campaign and along the way, he earned respects of many Americans but working relationships couldn't be carried thru due to the changes of Presidents; his pragmatism in clinging to countries that were willing to help him in attaining independence from France; and later on, his shrewdness in playing off a country with the other to obtain assistance to reunite North &amp; South as one Vietnam entity; his last will to be cremated not adhered to but ended up embalmed in a Mausoleum.  Many decisions he had made, some rite &amp; some wrong &amp; towards the end, the author analysed if Uncle Ho is in fact a Communist or a patriot.  In the book, it said that despite Uncle Ho is not as revered by the younger Vietnamese generations these days, and that his legacy is not remembered in the South as much as in the North, his contribution towards Vietnam and that region is unmistakable, and the greatness of him doing anything for his country is to be admired and revered of.  It also said that his replacements such as Le Duan simply lacked the charisma and the actions taken by him was bordering towards extremes rather than moderation, and therefore, further along, the support for his party seemed to wane, and the impacts caused by Le Duan's actions simply devastated Vietnam, and thus, the exodus of boatpeople, seeking a better life elsewhere.  In this biography, readers would also understand why United States wouldn't intervene in France's colonialism of Vietnam after the World War 2 as it required its available force there to prevent the spreading of Communist power along the North, both USSR &amp; China.  But later, as the red power is gaining in force along the North, only then, the United States intervened in the South to prevent communism to be spread all around the world.  But that was a marriage in hell with the Dien brothers as they supported the Catholics and therefore, they had a bad blood with the Buddhists and corruption was rampant, and that the population there was suffering.  Moreover, with Khrushev in power in Russia, with his denouncement of Stalin, he wanted to keep the peace around the region &amp; therefore, refused to endorse Vietnam engaging in war with the United States but China, on the other hand, reckoned a war was imminent and all this while, Uncle Ho, wished to keep concile both countries as inner conflict would give the Communism a bad name.  Should readers simply want to learn about Vietnam, I do recommend another great book, which certain parts of the book is used as excerpts in Ho CHi Minh biography anyway: The Sacred Willow written by Duong Van Mai Elliott.  It told the story of a Vietnamese family spanning 4 generations and by reading theplights of the family members who comprised of both Northerners and Southerners and the situations happening around them, you would get a feel of the developments of Vietnam towards the end.  A superb effort.	2001-04-20
US	51378626	R25QK2PUUGBRSX	1584230444	340181625	Australian Architecture Now	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Par Excellence	This is a well researched and fine detail architecture book on Australia.  The picture resolution is fantastic, and there are hurdles of pictures to look thru.  I enjoy thoroughly the experience of browsing thru the book simply or reading the essays that explained about Australian architecture.  The authors do not leave any stones unturned by featuring architectural works of any categories that we would envisage such as Public Works, Commerce &amp; Leisure, Revisions of history, Housing, Civic Symbols, Houses that are further broken into subheadings.  The discussion basically outlines the obvious, that with the advancement in technology which makes information accessible in a tick, cross information exchange brings the world closer together, closer than we ever imagine.  It used to be that Australia is looking at achievements done at the Northern Hemisphere but with its change of attitude, its confidence in stretching its own legs, other countries are looking at what Australia is doing now.  The, there's the discussion about 2 types of architects, one type that wants to dominate the nature &amp; the other type that wants to get along with nature.  The precedent was already set with the different attitudes of 2 Governors, Governor Arthur Phillip &amp; Governor Macquarie.  The initial Governor stressed the usage of line to constrain the space, whilst the other emphasises upon the flow of space.  Ultimately, one's attitude is not superior than the others but what they left behind is a legacy to challenge &amp; to debate what's appropriate for the landscape of Australia.  All pictures in the book comes with either building plan, or elevation plan, &amp; brief description.  Towards the end of the book, there are credits, index, selected readings for enthusiasts.  This is an architecture book that doesn't tackle one form of style but many, ranging from brutal, eccentric, tectonic, vernacular, poetry, lyrical, abstract, &amp; so forth.  An all rounder book &amp; a book that sure is going to be appreciated &amp; well presented on your coffee table.  Architects worth mentioning are Harry Seidler, who learnt under Marcel Breur and Walter Gropius; Glen Murcutt, who is highly regarded for his sensitivity &amp; respect to nature &amp; thus, his design of building that can adapt to local conditions superbly &amp; subsequently, creating a style that is uniquely Australians; Gregory Burgess for his design of the exemplary Aboriginal Cultural Centre by Ayers Rock with pertinence to zoomorphic inclination; Ashton Raggatt McDougall for its complex &amp; out of this world design (not even Deconstructivism); Denton Corker Marshall for their involvements in many major projects (one of the most riveting would have to be Melbourne's City Link Expressway from the Tullamarine Airport, in the best tradition of Luis Barragan) which happened to be the hard copy cover for the Australian Edition &amp; definitely more superior than the cover of the American Edition.  Highly recommended.	2001-04-02
US	51378626	R21CHTKYHEJ3BP	0399146431	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	4	2	4	N	N	As Good As It Gets	Amy Tan's previous three novels made us weep, made us cry.  She made us proud to be what and who we are.   And this much awaited fourth novel doesn't disappoint and she has done it again with grace and style.  This novel is tightly woven and it's contagious to read.  Every words and sentences are written with poise and with a purpose, and it's no wonder Amy Tan is one of the best in her field. This novel is loosely based upon her real life experience with her mother who is showing sign of dementia.   In this novel, the ghost writer by the name of Ruth is having a trial separation with her husband, trying to get along with her angst-ridden children from her husband's previous failed relationships, having a strained relationships with her mother.  Whilst she's having a successful career, her private life is an utter mess.  When she discovers that her mum's mental health is falling apart, she moves in with her mum to take care of her, and along the way, thru a translator, she starts to unveil the secrets that her mum has been hiding for many years, especially about her mum's maid that she called Precious Auntie.  Later on, Ruth discovers the true identity of Precious Auntie, the sacrifice her mum has made for her and her mum's sister, the curses that has haunted her mum over the years, and how those factors intertwined with her life somehow.   Amy Tan's play of words, her eye for detail, her understanding of the Chinese older generations who repress their love in the open but expressing it in a subtle way to their children are admirable.  This is a book about learning to let go, learning to love and be loved, redemption, motherly love.  It is simply as good as it gets.  Highly recommended.	2001-04-01
US	51378626	R1M0DBVH3ZRJKW	0679751254	697517913	Lenin's Tomb: The Last Days of the Soviet Empire	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Absolutely Fabulous	This book is one of those books that captured your attention from the beginning to the end.  What differentiates this book from other books about Russia is the author's ability to convey to us the mood, the essence of a country that was in the brink of collapse &amp; to be revived as a brand new country.  It is also one of those books that is difficult to be summarised in a few words but rather, it has to be read to be appreciated.  This work depicts Russia as a country with turbulent &amp; troubled histories, occupied by citizens, some who were proud of its past glories (particularly its victory over the Facism in the war with Germany during World War 2, its Great Empire's status and a superforce to be reckoned with in the past) &amp; would shed their bloods for the glory of their nation, some who opted for the stability of the past when Communism seemed to promise that everybody is going to be looked after, some who are anxious to be caught on with the rest of the world.  For an ex-Communist country that tried to catch up with the West, shamelessly influenced by capitalism for as long as we can remember, it has to overcome its steep learning curve.  Growing pains such as emergence of mafias instead of enterpreneurs surfaced, corruptions, civil wars, &amp; so forth.   A few chapters in the book are highly interesting such as the rise &amp; fall of Gorbachev (clearing the myths about him, &amp; conveying him as what a politician should be), the emergence of Yeltsin &amp; despite their differences, both of them deservedly win their places in history.  Moreover, there are also chapters about common people who are living in God forsaken places with no basic necessities such as clean air, indoor plumbing, heating system that actually works, intellectuals who wanted to bring out the correct version of Russia's history so that they could learn from the past &amp; evolve from there to better beings but alas, it wasn't meant to be, writers like Sakharov, Solzhenitsyn who dared to write of the truths for the love of their nation with total disregard of their own safety, people who were killed in the millions during Stalin's reign &amp; Stalin as a person, Khruschev, Brezhnev, coup-de-etat that was supposed to clean up the mess that Gorbachev had created but subsequently, it was deemed as a farce in its own right, &amp; so forth.  A substantial book that enlightens me about the plight of Russia &amp; a book that is definitely worth reading in this lifetime.  Highly recommended.	2001-03-21
US	51378626	R15T87LWCFL6JQ	0679431004	611906536	The Architecture Pack : A Unique, Three-Dimensional Tour of Architecture over the Centuries : What Architects Do, How They Do It	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A Revelation	Contrary to other architecture books that are muddled with academicians' essays, which in turn are filled with architecture terms that amateurs like myself wouldn't possibly understand, this book or pack is informative, playful, and easy to understand.  Just say that it's a crash course into architecture rather having you going thru 5 years training in a varsity with working experience.  The pack guides you to the fundamentals of architecture like the origin of architecture, when is architecture becoming a distinctive profession as in miedevel time, architect is a stonemason, sculptor all blended into one; the influence of Classicim, unavoidabability of learning about Palladio and Vitruvius; structure and form; new materials &amp; shapes; art &amp; architecture blended as one; the changing city, influenced mostly by our usage of cars; the process, with Richard Meier's Getty Centre as a case study.  To top this pack off, there a booklet informing readers of prominent  &amp;/or infleuntial architects &amp; architecure terms commonly heard &amp; used respectively(quite concise); timeline stipulating the architecture breakthrough since the beginning of time &amp; where does those famous architects stand in the passage of time; a model of Schroeder house for us to build.  The journey through this pack is simply a revelation, surprises everywhere &amp; never failed to bewilder me.  I'm adamant that the pop-up buildings is an art in its own rite &amp; what about the enclosed &quot;Mission Impossible&quot; glasses that enable us to see the inner structure and exterior structure of buildings so that we would appreciate architecture more?  Before I forget, there's also a cassette narrated by the author.  Believe me, you will spend hours and hours immersing yourself in this pack forgetting how time flies when you are enjoying yourself the most.  Highly recommended for architecture enthusiasts.  A note of caution though, due to the fiddly but fine detailing in this book, readers are urged to handle the pack with utmost care, &amp; it would be wonderful to have a second edition, continuing on where the author has left off in 1997.	2001-03-13
US	51378626	R1B8CQVJN3EW53	188521104X	700310409	Travelers' Tales Guides Japan: True Stories of Life on the Road	Books	4	5	5	N	N	informative but fun to read	The concept for this travelling book is different from the others.  Rather than providing readers with hard facts, it condenses essays written by travellers who have been to Japan to give the readers a feel of the country.  To be truthful, I enjoy this format thoroughly as there's a human dimension to it.  Some essays are compiled by Alan Booth, who is rather well known for his works about Japan &amp; who has since passed away due to cancer but his legacy remains.  Anyhow, some of the highlights of the book are writers' experiences in the love hotel &amp; thus, collecting many green hair elastic band along the way; feelling like a Godzilla for crushing into everything due to  the space constraint in Japan &amp; the difficulty of adjusting to Japanese custom; skiing &amp; playing beach volleyball INDOOR; visiting to the renowned Ryoanji Temple; disturbing visit to the Peace Park in Hiroshima; groping &amp; fondling problem in the subway &amp; thus, destroying the myth of all Japanese males being gentlemen; significance of cherry blossoms during spring time; a new but boring visit to the Noh theatre for the undiscerning &amp; not to mention the sumo wrestling; the chaotic but harmonious existence among the fishmongers in Tskuji, the biggest fish market in the world; Osaka for having the rebellious spirit, dare to be different from the rest of Japan etc.  Because the writers write as they see Japan, not all articles are for Japan but rather, the other Japan that you haven't seen before.  I thoroughly enjoy the experience of reading the book as if I were there already.  Highly recommended.	2001-03-06
US	51378626	R193YUGDPXKHIK	0847820238	922256821	Ricardo Legorreta, Architect	Books	4	17	17	N	N	simply written &amp; presented but effective	This is a massive book but readers would be glad to know unlike other architecture books that are filled with academics' essays, pictures take precedent in this instance.  Principle photography of this book was taken by Lourdes Legorreta, the daughter of the great architect himself (who happened to be an architect in her own rite &amp; so does Ricardo's son, Victor) &amp; therefore, naturally, she would have empathy of the best angles to be taken of all buildings featured in this book.  The preface was written by Ricardo himself &amp; it is complemented by poems that gave us insight of what architecture meant to him.  Then, we move on to a chapter dedicated to discussions of elements of architecture such as wall, light, scale, geometry, emotion, humanity.  Suffice to say that every &amp; each elements mentioned are just as important &amp; they are intertwined with one another.  Subsequently, there was the interview with the great man himself.  There were discussions about his relationships with Jose Villagran &amp; Luis Barragan, who seemed to have influenced him quite significantly which he concurred.  He described both architects as chalk &amp; cheese.  One of them was a perfectionist, emphasised upon the importance of knowing how to build on top of knowing how to design.  Because Jose was a Rationist and that all his buildings were functional and anonymous but devoid of spirituality, Ricardo started to wander elsewhere for other enlightenment.  That, he found in Luis Barragan, who reminded him the importance of landscaping, as one cohesiveness with the building (I.M Pei believed in the same ideal).  Ricardo also joked about how academics interpreted Luis' works in all seriousness and he's adamant that if Luis were alive now, he would have laughed at them all as he designed buildings for the passion and luv of them without any complications of -isms.  Then, there were also discussions of several artists that influenced his works, his children's involvement in thesame industry, his origin.  He also took the opportunity to correct the public's perception about his huge dosage of bold colours.  He explained that he isn't using the colours for the sake of using them but using them to emphasise different planes, making the mass changes thru the manipulation of light at different time of the day, and along the way, the users' emotion are taken to yet another height.  He couldn't reiterate more that without happiness, what's the point of architecture.  Ricardo has this philosophy, quoted by Gropius, which was quite inspiring and something that he takes to his heart, &quot;keep working as if you were going to live forever because if your goals are good, somebody will pick up your flag and keep progressing&quot;.  And the rest of the book is dedicated in showing Ricardo's testimony or contribution towards architecture: bold colours (&amp; some subtle ones depending upon the clients' requirements) buildings with mass, walls that contained the mystery beyond the walls &amp; thus, enticed people to explore deeper within, forms to excite &amp; stimulate the senses.  To complement the pictures, there are floor plan and brief notes or quotations by Ricardo.  To finish the book nicely, there is also his biography (doesn't say that he's Year 2000 AIA Gold Medal Award Winner), list of projects (that doesn't include the work that he's done in Japan &amp; other latter works), select bibliography, &amp; project credits (which provided the readers with everything you need to know about his projects).  Worthwhile reading.  Highly recommended.	2001-02-27
US	51378626	RFJCE241NQZDL	0847819043	467588958	Architectural Journeys	Books	3	5	6	N	N	I Need Something More Substantial	This book, from the outset looked like a scrap book.  In fact, it contained drawings (sketches, probably a better word), clay models made by Antoine Predock during his many trips overseas over the years.  It also contained sketches of architectural buildings designed by him. FYI, the sketches were more like outlines composed by a confident individual rather than technical drawings.  Artists would relate more to those.  Antoine wrote a brief introductory essay mentioning that it was essential to get both the feel of a place &amp; what he had read about it before undergoing with the design.  The end result, ie. the building would remain pertinent to its environment.  Antoine is well known for his sensitivity &amp; his inclination towards the spiritual aspect of the place &amp; it showed tremendously in this scrap book.  Antoine also stated that he had to sample collages of the place so that his colleagues would utilise them onwards for the design.  I can't say I learn a lot about this great architect from this book but I suppose readers who are fond of him would find this book complementary to other architecture books about him.	2001-02-25
US	51378626	R3NF3OCT014BJM	084781338X	345691575	Experimental Architecture In Los Angeles	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A dissection of LA's architecture	The book talked about young architects that were influenced &amp;/or taught by Frank Gehry &amp; is better known as the Gehry's Kids.  Gehry commented in his essay that some of the talented ones ought to be given opportunity to leave their marks in LA but sadly enough, the young architects are only given the chance to explore in the residential market rather than in the public market.  Even though Gehry was recognised internationally, he was still regarded as a loose cannon, quite unbecoming for a metropolis that seemed liberal &amp; thrived on changes.  Only after reading further, things were not what they seem in actuality.  LA wasn't receptive towards avantgarde public buildings at all as fund providers were conservative in their outlook towards such architecture.  It's only after Frank Gehry's success with his Guggenheim in Spain that his earlier winning proposition of the Disney Music Hall was given the green light.  The book also explained that Anglo population in LA now is a minority whilst people from not less than 80 ethnic background keep flocking to the resource strapped metropolis for its Utopia image; good suburbs like Santa Monica, Brentwood &amp; popular destinations such as Venice are located on the verge of ghettos, &amp; therefore it's hard to find some sort of order or sanity from this place.  Where cities such as Chicago, New York are easily identifiable via their skylines, posters &amp; scaffoldings are what differentiate LA from other cities in the States &amp; formed part of the landscape.  Even pollution gives LA its distintive character by glowing the city with its golden red hue.  Young architects love working in this City as it's devoid of historical inclincation &amp; that any architectural styles are not dictated by any form of constraints but then again, due to the fast paced nature of LA, the avantgarde experimentation carried out by the architects soon enough become their own victims as they simply become news of the past.  Then, there were discussions about the mild temperature, City's vulnerability towards earthquake that caused the architects to explore materials &amp; method of constructions that are deemed appropriate for LA.  Whilst some architects tried to create forms that are reactive towards the chaos, some are creating orderly forms that tried to make sense of their environment. LA seemed to be running out of land, &amp; the number of people living in garage is phenomenally high &amp; young architects were working on how to add upon the existing properties rather than building from ground up.  LA was indeed an interesting place to be &amp; the essays compiled in this book were enjoyable to read.  But majority of the book comprised of works by young architects endorsed by Frank Gehry &amp; other contributors such as Aaron Betsky, John Chase, Leon Whiteson with elevation plans, pictures (quality could be better though) to boot.  Good effort, indeed.	2001-02-25
US	51378626	R2R1ESY51370SC	0879517158	269511421	Rebuilding the Reichstag	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent Read	If you want to know more about Lord Norman Foster's contribution towards Germany, then, this book would be it.  It tells you all you need to know about Reichstag, probably the most controversial building ever built in the history of Germany.  Along the way, you get to learn more about Germany as a country.  This book was well presented with high quality pictures abound, taken by several prominent photographers of all aspects &amp; angles of Reichstag, pictures of Lord Foster's previous works (to understand his way of seeing things), pictures of Reichstag's past and present (to let us appreciate how far that building has gone through).  Moreover, to enhance diversity &amp; to understand Reichstag from many prespectives, Norman Foster invited several scholars to complement his own writings.  The final result was simply spectacular.  I wouldn't find this book academic.  Rather, I found it highly entertaining &amp; I came out of it a better knowledgeable person.  Definitely a must-have for architecture enthusiast or if you want to have a cerebral hard bound book to display on top of your coffee table.  Among the highlights of the book was reading about the competition stage, about Lord Foster pitching against other international superarchitects (such as Santiago Calatrava) and local architects from Germany, &amp; of his reservation if Germany was sincere towards its invitation of international people other than Germans to participate or the whole thing was just for show; his emphasis of 4 points, ie. Parliament being intertwined with Reichstag's history, an understanding of the institution &amp; its inner workings, economics in terms of meeting the budget in the restoration of Reichstag &amp; the savings achieved through reduced running costs via technology advancement &amp; clever planning, &amp; lastly the emphasis on energy ecology by using sustainable environment friendly for sources of energy other than its reliance on fossil fuels- reinforcing Germany's image as the country that takes the lead in fostering better technology that would reduce the unfavourable impacts towards our fragile environment; a project all on its own for Lord Foster to design the eagle or better known as the &quot;fat hen&quot; that signified Germany; Lord Foster's involvement with avantgarde artists such as Jenny Holzers (American), Christian Boltanski (French), Gerhard Richter &amp; Sigmar Polke (German) &amp; many others -reminding readers that Reichstag is not merely acting as a Parliament but also as an important Art Gallery (3% of the construction cost of the building, already 1% higher than the norm); the evolving stage of deriving the iconic dome, which was deemed as a 'boiled egg' by some critics at one stage but eventually, being deemed as the icon that all Germans are proud with in the end; Lord Foster's invitation of Danish graphic artist, Per Arnoldi to look into colour coordination of the place; the intensity (at times, heartbreak) but effectiveness of constant dialogues with the Building Committees, the techniques used in the restoration process re the graffitis left behind by the Allies armies after WW2, Claude Engle (lighting consultant)'s invaluable contribution of the lighting design by channelling xenon lights towards the cone &amp; thus, channelling them through all corners of German, symbolising the democracy at work &amp; spreading thru all corners of the land, &amp; so forth.  The book also contained a proper Reichstag's chronology, end credits, postscripts to bombard us with even more information.  Lord Foster stressed the significance of getting in touch with the past, to live the present, &amp; anticipate the future with optimism, sensitivity towards the history of a building to come up with a building solution that is appropriate for its time rather than having to resort to brutal reconstruction, the necessity of having transparency &amp; lightness interior in contrast with the solid mass exterior to show the passage of time&amp; the changes made in terms of thinking.  Highly recommended.	2001-02-23
US	51378626	R2WKUE54UB8CJU	0312152418	149855583	Vodka, Tears, and Lenin's Angel: My Adventures in the Wild and Woolly Former Soviet Union	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Simply Engaging	This book was about the author's journey, or perhaps, adventure in Russia.  Instead of simply reporting what was on the surface, she digged deep &amp; managed to give us, readers an insight of what Russia was all about.  She talked about everyday Russians that had fallen victims to the term 'democracy', that Westerners have already taken for granted.  The post communist Russia was filled with abandoned street kids, young and rich mafias that worked hand-in-hand with local officials and who wouldn't know if they are going to live the next day, Russians that were stranded in far away outposts as inflation had simply eroded their life-time savings, prisoners that were still being held despite enterpreneurship that put them in jail at the first place is deemed a legal activity now, spies.  Due to so much uncertainties, some Russians preferred to revert to the old Communist system when they wouldn't have to worry about finding a roof over their heads, and food on their plates.  As the old story goes, someone has to be blamed &amp; promises would be made (even though at times, promises would be far-fetched but still, the public bought them), &amp; thus, the local politicians swept themselves to power (namely, someone like Zhirinovsky, Yeltsin).  It was quite interesting to know that whilst Gorbachev was revered in Western countries, he was highly despised in Russia for breaking the Great Russia into pieces.  The author also sneaked into hot spots such as Georgia; Checnya, investigating about the disappearance of Fred Cuny of the Open Society Institute (OSI) supposely fronted by George Soros but it was rumoured to be a cover for US involvement in Russia applying the divide and rule strategy to keep Russia's power at bay.  To conclude, Russia was a huge melting pot with a tendency of extremity.  In a way, the author was drawn to the country in its pursuit of good but evil obviously came as part of the package.  Overall, the book was full of intrigues &amp; I couldn't help myself but read it voraciously till the very end.  B&amp;W pictures and a map of Russia &amp; its neighbouring countries were bonuses.  Highly recommended.	2001-02-15
US	51378626	R3VYIUOLXIKGY0	0802713610	905195727	The Boxer Rebellion: The Dramatic Story of China's War on Foreigners That Shook the World in the Summer of 1900.	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A tour de force	Generally, this book analysed the xenophobic nature of the Chinese people during the late 19th century &amp; the nature of Westerners treating Chinese as a lesser human being.  The 'boxers' is the medium that enabled the analysis to take place.   After providing all the readers with the facts, complemented by useful pictures (in excellent quality), useful route diagrams, legation diagrams, the author tried to put the facts into one cohesive picture of what the results might have been should other scenarios have taken place.  The author also addressed that how would we feel if we put ourselves in Chinese shoes then. The book tried to explain the reasons why the Chinese didn't capitalise upon the opportunity when they could have destroyed the legations once &amp; for all (the disagreement between the moderates &amp; extremists in the Chinese Government about the consequences).    The Empress Dowager Tsu Tzi was under scrutiny again for her involvement in the rebellion &amp; the siege of Westerners' legations, which was covered &amp; discussed in another book by Sterling Seagrave, The Dragon Lady. Here, we lived through the 'hardships' that the Westerners endured during the 55 days siege but the ultimate victims of all happened to be the Chinese themselves.  Here, there were glimpses of human's both best &amp; worst nature. The author stressed that 'Boxer' rebellion is crucial as it changes China's history &amp; the irony of history repeating itself with one good example of Cultural Revolution in 1967 when the British Embassy was sacked &amp; burnt by the Red Guards.  Only through investigation of the past that we could pave a better path for our new generations by not repeating the same mistakes but sad to say that people don't seem to learn from history.  An enjoyable but detailed book to read.  Simply magical &amp; highly recommended.	2001-02-02
US	51378626	R131V91IY69HPU	0789300494	382713285	American House Now: Contemporary Architectural Directions	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Small But Delightful Book	This small but delightful book discussed about the modern American architectural, not modern in terms of Classic Modernism but contemporary via fusion of Classic Modernism &amp; Post Modernism.  The author stressed that USA, being a relatively young country has a &quot;can do&quot; attitude, open minded &amp; daring to explore new ideas.  It also mentioned that America isn't obsessive or overzealous in the interpretation of architectural stylistic movements.  Rather, it only takes what it needs, reminding me of Japanese doing the same thing to technology, that is refining existing technology to make it better.  There are 24 buildings (all of them are for residential purpose) here signifying where USA is at in terms of modern architecture.  Notes rather than essays are utilised to explain the buildings.  The pictures do  most the talking in this instance. Notable architects are Stephen Holl (deriving his work via America's literary content), Richard Meier, Antoine Predock, Owen Moss, Arquitectonica, RoTo, Carlos Zapata, Morphosis, John Lautner,  &amp; so forth.  The choosing of the works here should be of a subjective rather than objective nature because there are other architects which I believe do fit the bill in creating the so-called American architectural but have been overlooked such as Frank Gehry (his Californian style despite his Canadian origin), Ricardo Legoretta (the latest AIA Gold Medal laureate), Philip Johnson, etc.  Still, this is a wonderful book to look thru.	2001-01-28
US	51378626	R6ZTNWP6LJ9ID	0810939916	223214021	Frank Lloyd Wright's Taliesin and Taliesin West	Books	3	11	14	N	N	good complementary book on Frank Lloyd Wright	This book explored the origin, the life of Frank Lloyd Wright.  The author didn't discuss FLW's other works as such but did explain the nature why Taliesin &amp; its other counterpart were built, &amp; unbeknown to the architect would one day become 2 of the most important buildings in the States.  The book contained many pictures (good quality) of the communes participating in many subsistence activities, FKW giving guidance to his disciples, lavish parties &amp; performances that were held there, many aspects of those buildings.  On the sideline, the book also displayed the graphics that were utilised by the Taliesin Foundation, Asian art works that were collected by FKW during his trip to Japan (in particular).  For the benefit of the readers, building plans were enclosed to relate to the pictures provided.	2001-01-27
US	51378626	RFSN3Y6P176SR	0006550452	762383644	Liberty or Death: India's Journey to Independence and Division	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Resourceful Book for India's Enthusiast	Definitely not a travelling book but a scholarly book looking in-depth into the independence of India &amp; its divisions into India proper &amp; Pakistan, &amp; subsequent split of West Pakistan &amp; East Pakistan into present day Pakistan &amp; Bangladesh.  As William Darymple wrote his books via his encounter with common people, Patrick French tended to concentrate more of his effort in researching the archives.  For me, it required more effort to absorb this book than Darymple's, which were always entertaining.  But it doesn't detract from the fact that Patrick is a resourceful author &amp; he successfully investigated few characters that played pivotal roles in the independence of India, both English &amp; Indians included. The myth about Ghandi was brought down to earth, Bose was hailed as a hero despite his involvement with the Axis power for his nationalist attitude, Nehru as a moderate politician in contrast with Patel who had tremendous hatred for the Muslims, Jinna for his involvement with the Muslim League &amp; his deep distrust of the Congress, Wavell for being an unsung hero who had contributed much to India's independence, Radcliffe for partitioning India accordingly with Wavell's initial plan down to the letter, Mountbatten's role for keeping the peace in India during those turbulent time after the independence.  There were also discussions about the Calcutta Massacre, The Partition, the absorption of other kingdoms into India (some of them by force) &amp; the unresolved issued about Kashmir, etc.  To summarise succinctly, what Indians got in the end wasn't Liberty OR Death, but Both of them.  The country is still divided by race &amp; religion after all these years.  This book is a reminder of how lucky we all are for living in the environment, which we are not judged by the colour of our skin, the race that we belong to, but the content of our characters.  Only then, there's this slightest chance the world would become boundaryless and all of us would live in peace and harmony.would live in peace and harmony.	2001-01-23
US	51378626	RDYT9HIBPHR7T	0393730506	768990429	The Architecture Traveler: A Guide to 250 Key Twentieth-Century American Buildings (Norton Books for Architects & Designers)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Splendid and handy book	If you are an avid architecture fan, and you are planning to see some iconoclastic buildings in the States, then, this handy small but substantial book is a must.  The book is arranged in a chronological order, black and white in colour though, providing the readers with an insightful explanation of why every and each projects are highly regarded.  Moreover, it also tells us where to find them, when to  visit or if the buildings could be accessed at all, who to contact to arrange for a viewing, how to get there (subways &amp;/or even bus numbers), who designed the buildings.  To make the readers' life even easier, there are various formats of index at the end of the book, should we want to search the buildings via the architects' names, or thru the cities, or thru the highway maps.  I am pleasantly surprised by this book and would recommend this to anyone else who want to have a road trip in USA just looking at buildings.  Mind you, this book only goes as far as 1999 and to date, there are new buildings that are to be updated in there such as Frank Gehry's latest work for Mr. Allen of Microsoft underneath Seattle's pin.  One note of interest is that none of the architecture buildings in Las Vegas is mentioned at all or taken seriously.	2001-01-15
US	51378626	R31Y5JID7WAP5Y	1864501723	955728078	The Age of Kali: Indian Travels and Encounters	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Keen observation made this book an instant classic	I always enjoyed William's writing: witty, poignant, funny,  straight to the point &amp; non-judgmental.  His works resembled Jan Wong's works about China.  It's remarkable that in the midst of chaos, the ordinary people carry on as always.  India is like a dark continent to me, mythical &amp; mysterious.  Should I be a tourist, I would definitely not be able to see the 'real' India &amp; this book is the 2nd best thing of being there physically. It's interesting to note that despite India's vast continent, it is never a united country.  William's travelling to Goa (heavily influenced by the Portuguese culture), Reunion Island (off the coast of India which is a literally a melting pot) had proven just that.  Furthermore, there's also mentioning about the emergence of true Indian superstar that could compete head on with the best of America's (thanks to satellite cable TV); the emergence of the Indian version of the Silicon Valley; the uneasiness of Indians towards sexuality despite its offering of the classic, Kamasutra; caste system is also very much alive in India despite effort by the previous Government to abolish such a system; appreciation of the meaning &quot;an eye for an eye&quot;; India as a slow trampling elephant instead of the nicknames &quot;waking tigers&quot; given to its other Asian counterparts; the residue of the British colonisation that has yet been erased completely from the continent; India's uneasiness with its neigbours particularly Sri Lanka and Pakistan, etc.  A gem that proves irresistable.  Highly recommended.	2000-12-27
US	51378626	R1XJX6FSXY31LM	0847821161	459162812	Pacific Edge	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Quiet achiever	This book is well-written, well researched, exploring contemporary architecture in the Pacific Rim, complemented by 3 essays which are definitely thought provoking. Sad to say that the rating by the readers is poor because this is one of the best architecture book that I have ever come across &amp; a book that I keep coming back too.  If readers are looking for a pictorial architecture book that looks good on your coffee table, probably there's an element of truth that its standard can't surpassed those published by Phaidons, but in terms of being an intelligent book, it delivers, even exceeding my expectation.  The author split the book into 5 different types of architecture that are observed in this region.  They are the the modernist legacies (international vernacular), edge condition (regional inflection &amp; the architecture of local identity), dense cities (architecture in the expanding new world city), tectonics (building corporeal architecture) &amp; lastly, media-tectonics (generating an ambient architecture).  Many examples are provided from LA to NZ.  Rather than covering works of superarchitects of our time, the book opted to cover works by established but less well known architects such as Mathias Klotz of Chile, Stephen Yeang of Malaysia, Thom Craig of Christchurch (good on ya!), Ricardo Legoretta (this year's winner of AIA gold medal), etc.  Considering that the book is published in 1988, the author definitely does have foresight in his selections of those architecture works.  A book not to be missed by architecture enthusiast.  Highly recommended &amp; look forward to his next book offering.	2000-12-13
US	51378626	R2LD16MUAIVETN	0847821412	777592027	The New American Townhouse	Books	3	6	15	N	N	Good effort	This book is simply that, a book about new American town house.  It started with a description of the evolution of town house, rite from the time of Palladio &amp; Vitruvius to the present time.  The rest is 20 examples of American townhouses all seemed to be going skyward fulfilling all kinds of tastes ranging from chic, loft style, minimalistic, opulence, romantic. &amp; so forth.  There are tonnes of pictures in this book with helpful building plans.  I always like variety &amp; after browsing thru initial examples, the rest of the book I really couldn't bother with as they all look pretty much similar.  Afterall, a townhouse is a townhouse.  Anyhow, this book is beautifully presented &amp; definitely worth keeping if you simply want a coffee book for show.  Keep up the good work.	2000-12-13
US	51378626	R1E2ERS0NP17Q4	0195124340	877325275	The Sacred Willow: Four Generations in the Life of a Vietnamese Family	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Captivating book	This is a Vietnamese version of the &quot;American Quilt&quot; or even, &quot;Magnolia&quot;.  It told the story of a Vietnamese family spanning 4 generations.  When I was a child growing up in the South East Asia region, I read &amp; heard about the boat people from Vietnam every single day.  I used to wonder why should they abandon their  homeland &amp; why should they take such a major risk.  I also saw pictures &amp; video clippings of a Vietnamese girl running naked from her village after a napalm attack, the mob gathered around the US Embassy hoping to catch the last flights out from Saigon, South Vietnamese Police Chief that shot point blank range towards a captured Viet Cong at the public place, a Buddhist monk burnt himself to death in protest of the South Vietnam Government, &amp; so forth.  I couldn't relate to those incidents then but this book enabled me to do so now.  The stories of the author's family members came slowly but effectively thru tying them up with the historical happenings of that particular moment.  Because her family was vast, &amp; that they all shared different beliefs, we got to see Vietnam from different perspectives.  Even though some reviewers reckoned that the book was rather one-sided, it still is a captivating to read, obviously a labour of love for the author.  I definitely broadened up my knowledge about Vietnam &amp; no longer stereotyped them as victims of the unscrupulous wars as depicted by Oliver Stone's movies or even Acropolyse Now.  Rather, being their enterprising selves, they would always sought ways to sustain or improve their predicaments no matter which parts of this world that they are residing in.  Highly recommended &amp; an experience that's not to be missed.	2000-12-10
US	51378626	R1JTOUO6J8K5I2	1864700793	984690977	Architects For The New Millennium (Profile)	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Disappointed	This coffee table book is nothing more than a cumulation of CVs of prominent architects around the world.  The cover of the book is impressive enough but as the saying goes, never judge the book by its cover.  It simply has one page introduction which does not explain in detail why the architects chosen were the architects of the millennium.  All I knew was that those architects chosen were involved with the Publishing Company for the past 18 years but even that was doubtful.  Anyhow, the CVs of every &amp; each architects were laid out in such manners:  the firm's contact info with a potrait picture, pictures of their more well known works, a list of projects that have been undertaken &amp; underway, a brief illustration of their beliefs.  That's it!  Anyway, in my view, architects of the millennium would be someone who have changed how architecture is conducted or who have brought architecture to a new height but many of the architects in this illustration are so-so &amp; by looking at their projects, they are regional based.  Having said that, should they be regional based but thinking internationally, they definitely worth mentioning in the book but unfortunately, that wasn't the case.  Subjective the choosing could be but I would expect the Publishing Company to do a better job than this.  For readers out there, flick thru the book if you may but buying it, emmm, there's something better out there.  Just to illustrate how weak this book is, it doesn't mention about Richard Meier and Eisemenn despite the other Big 5 are.  Then, there's also the omission of Ren Koolhaas, the present laureate of the prestigious Pulitzer prize, Glen Murcutt of Australia, I M Pei's firm, Isozaki &amp; many others...	2000-12-04
US	51378626	RYSIB9P9ZZG5U	0810969076	726097574	Frank O. Gehry: Guggenheim Museum Bilbao	Books	4	18	18	N	N	A Must Read for Gehry's Enthusiasts	I rather enjoyed this offering.  Because I was such a great fan of his, I bought the book anyway despite the reviews written by other readers that it didn't contain much insight.  In fact, this book was rather insightful.  It was realised after the involvement of the author with the maestro himself over a period of 7 years.  It's amazing to read about Gehry's inspiration from his favourite items, the 'fish' &amp; the 'snake', &amp; how it gradually evolves into something else completely different.  The book explores his previous realised &amp; unrealised projects, &amp; their corelations with the Bilbao Museum.  After exploring his subconscious &amp; conscious minds thru random sketches mostly done in the plane or in hotel room, he would have his colleague, Chan built the models which they would constantly refine.  I also learnt here that Gehry isn't a great fan of both computer &amp; drawing plan.  The blessing by Gehry of the usage of the computer program, Catia is a God sent because the other Principal understood that without its usage, it would be almost impossible to finish the project on time, on budget, or at all. The part about why he chose titanium instead of copper despite that it costs more is interesting to read.  Here, we also learnt that Gehry is a team player &amp; he credits other people's contribution to his project. One of them is Krens, the Guggenheim Foundation Director who assisted Gehry in forming spaces to display arts.  He's the person who urged Gehry to trust his intuition to come out with huge spaces &amp; yet, sculptural in nature.  In other words, Gehry is fortunate to work with professionals who remain objective in their judgements &amp; never steer him away from his vision.  This book oozes with beautiful pictures, taken from all angles imaginable, in different lighting, &amp; even pictures of the Museum under construction.  There's also Appendix at the rear of the book mentioning all you need to know about this iconalistic project of our time.  Highly recommended.	2000-11-11
US	51378626	R224OU63Z9H23F	0714837997	459233056	The Getty Center (Architecture in Detail)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Well Documented Book About the Getty Centre	Despite the succinctness of the book, I knew all I needed to know about the Getty Centre which costed a whopping US$1 billion to build.  Getty Centre is to the other extreme of the Bilbao Museum by Gehry.  The latter one is both an architecture building &amp; a sculpture as a whole but the former offering is a Modern building in the best traditions of Le Corbusier, Philip Johnson, or even Miles van de Rohe.  I'm disappointed to read that Richard Meier didn't get the chance to realise his total vision upon the project &amp; therefore, the integrity of his design is ultimately compromised.  2 of the incidents worth mentioning are the engagement of the interior designer, Thierry Despont to provide the colour coordination of the galleries.  He's better known as the designers for the rich &amp; famous such as Ralph Lauren &amp; Bill Gates. In this instance,  Theirry applied heavy &amp; bold colours to complement the art works &amp; when the art works melted into the scene, the emphasis upon the art works themselves are lost in totality.  Secondly, the engagement of the landscape artist, Robert Irwin who introduced the circular garden which broke the link between 2 main buildings of the Getty Centre. It's interesting to read about the material chosen, the travertine, &amp; how it blends nicely with the white metal panels that Richard Meier is well known for; the maximisation of controlled light to highlight the artworks &amp; yet, not harming them in anyway required fine detailing &amp; ingenuity in which Richard Meier &amp; team delivered.  The book comprises of many photographs taken from many angles imaginable under different time of the day.  Many elevation plans, sectional plans, conceptual plans, model plans, detailing plans, &amp; all you need to know about the Getty Centre.  Definitely worth reading for an architecture enthusiast.	2000-11-11
US	51378626	R2UI45W6MXQG51	0312161190	817282431	The Rise, Corruption and Coming Fall of the House of Saud	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Quite an eye opener	This is a long winded book &amp; at times, I'm finding it a struggle to finishing the book due to the way it's written.  Its style is no different from a College textbook, devoid of any humour but as a matter of factly.  You could sense the contempts that the author has against the Saud family &amp; the whole book is dedicated at criticising what it has done to consolidate its power in the Middle East thru black gold at the expense of its neigbouring countries.  Still, this book provides me with a glimpse of the Middle East that I know so little about.  I always wondered why does the Middle Eastern people (bar Israel) hate USA so much &amp; now, I just realise that it's the ultimate puppet master.  I always learnt of the reason why Jordan decided not to step into the Iraq-Kuwait welfare when Operation Desert Shield &amp; Operation Desert Storm were on.  Here, we start to question ourselves if Saddam Hussein is really the bad guy or that everything that had happened &amp; is happening in Middle Eastern is circumstantial.  The book predicted that by 1997, with the way the House of Saud is going, there might be a change of power, ie. power of the people to topple the stablity there &amp; unless steps are taken to narrowing the gap between the rich &amp; the poor, or in other words, the wealth of the country is shared evenly, whoever that is in control of oil would play a dominant role in the world politics.  The book also commented about how useless OPEC is as its policies were made with guidance by the big player, Saudi Arabia &amp; it would keep the oil price low anyway to accommodate USA to protect its sovereignity from the outside world &amp; even its own people.  But look at the world price now of oil.  Obviously, after the demise of King Fahd, other smaller countries start to play a more prominent &amp; influential role including Venezuela.  The author did mention that should John Kennedy's proposals were follow thru by his subsequent US Presidents, Saudi Arabiawould have been a far better place now, in terms of democracy &amp; personal freedom.  Alas, people turn a blind eye as long as their personal interests are served.  So, next time, when we read something in the newspaper about Middle East, we better make sure that everything we read, we read it with the benefit of a doubt.  I enjoyed also reading about the servants of the Crown such as the high profiled Khashoggi, Yamani (who actually owned Constantin, the watch maker!), Pharoan.  Readers are urged to read this with an open mind...	2000-11-10
US	51378626	R1NLFYEAF4Z8SC	0393313751	905042605	Architecture Without Rules: The Houses of Marcel Breuer and Herbert Beckhard	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Must Read for an Architecture Enthusiast	An in-depth analysis of collaborated works between Marcel Breur &amp; Herbert Beckhard through their professional lives together.  They are conveyed as architects who get along well with one another both professionally &amp; personally.  Marcel Breur is depicted as an architect that didn't want to force his idea upon his clients but respecting their wishes despite in some instances, that compromised with his vision of how the final outcome should be like.  Ironically, thru interaction with his clients that his greatest works are produced which are discussed in detail in this book.  A chapter is dedicated for every &amp; each houses that are worth mentioning.  We are told of Japanese influence upon their work, the usage of natural material in their works i.e the international style buildings which are rampant during their time.  All the works are displayed in black &amp; white photos but towards the end, colour photos are shown &amp; that's when everything hit you as you're able to see the buildings from the other perspective.  Morevoer, building layouts are provided as well.  I guess the exclusion of colour in the beginning is enabling us to appreciate the form more rather than been confused with the detraction, ie. colour.  To be honest, it works well in this instance.  I also enjoy the layout of the book.  It is easy to read, and informative.  In a way, this is a semi-biography book of those 2 famous architects.  Towards the end, it's heart touching to read about Herbert's reflection on the day when Marcel handed him a note, wanted him to announce to the firm that he would be retiring thereafter.  It's interesting also to read about Richard Meier's beginning in Marcel's firm as well.	2000-10-28
US	51378626	RVVBD6MRO6TBJ	0823027759	131451686	Lighting Book	Books	4	32	33	N	N	Awesome lighting book	This book totally blew me out of the water.  It exceeded my expectation literally.  Firstly, it brought to our attention that lighting could produce various kind of effects (covered in 11 chapters).  The next logical step would be to guide us to the right type of lights to achieve those effects mentioned (covered in 8 chapters).  For us to be understand in-depth what we have been explained so far, the author used examples (my favourite in this book for we were brought into homes &amp; projects of designers like Ingo Maurer, Philippe Starck).  It doesn't end there.  The author proceeded further by illustrating classic hardwares of the past decades (such as Tizio, Romeo Moon, Rosy Angelis, Zettle'z, etc.)  I really appreciate the author's effort as s/he explained to us the reason(s) why the classics are classics.  To end, there were important directories (point of contact for light manufacturers, lighting consultants, architects, etc.)  A book that I cherish a lot &amp; revisit again &amp; again.  Definitely ahead of the other lighting books.  Please don't overlook this book if you are a lighting enthusiast as it's one of the best around!	2000-10-26
US	51378626	R39T0F3N2LWWB8	1579590454	454938409	Terence Conran's Easy Living	Books	3	5	8	N	N	An Honest Overview Book about Modern Living	This book is divided into several components ie. elements, comfort, function, detail which are further broken down into small components.  Pictures are used sparingly &amp; most of them are taken from the same source anyway.  I do not learn anything new in this modern living book but rather, reinforcing what I have already learnt from other interior books throughout the years.  Just because Terence Conran is rendered as the guru of modern living, it doesn't imply that he's the person that has reinvented the wheel but just that person with the extra edge or confidence to apply what we have already known all along about modern living, that person who opts to lead a simplistic life.  I'm very appreciative of him of stressing one point about the rigidity of  minimalistic living, &amp; people keep mixing up the word &quot;minimal&quot; living with &quot;modern&quot; living.  Whilst it's true that their fundamentals are more or less the same, they still aren't the same thing.	2000-10-14
US	51378626	RCJ2DAFRTKY6N	1559724749	578904567	Jerry Seinfeld:  The Entire Domain	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Must Read for a Seinfeld fan	This book allocated sufficient chapters to cover issues that we needed &amp; wanted to know about Seinfeld, the person &amp; Seinfeld, the show.  It's interesting to read about the backgrounds &amp; humble beginnings of the 'family' members of Seinfeld mainly Larry David, Michael Richards, Jason Alexander, Julia Louis Dreyfus.  I was most interested to read how the team came up with the storylines for a show about nothing, of how they came out with characters such as George, Kramer, &amp; Elaine (life imitated art, literally).  We also read about how desperate NBC was to retain the Seinfeld team for more seasons towards the end, the pay rise negotations which sparked other actors &amp; actresses from other NBC projects to follow suits, Jerry's romance with Shosanna, &amp; so forth.  The ending of the book stated that whilst Jerry was the king of his domain, his life remained a void...which would stay corrected considering that he has since married.  Not to be missed.  An exciting &amp; user friendly read.	2000-10-08
US	51378626	R1COEN9UYJTU13	0394755111	786458413	Iron and Silk	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Great read!!	Reading this book was rather contagious.  Once you read a piece of it, you couldn't stop until you're done with it. His observation upon the Chinese was uncanny &amp; being a Chinese, I really got to take my hat off for him as he explained to me the reason(s) why Chinese behave in such manners at times (which's rather logical from the hindsight now).  It's funny, full of cliche', &amp; the rigidity of Chinese vs. the informality of Americans formed the funny backbone of the whole book. Highly recommended.  As a note of reminder, this book doesn't devote wholly to martial arts but simply a sideline to his day to day living in China.	2000-10-01
US	51378626	RYK9OIJ2EW9RY	0385334753	175246402	If Only	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Good Role Model?	This book depicted the life to date of Geri Halliwell from rag to riches.  It told me the other aspect of Geri that I never knew.  It's saddening to note that behind the limelight, she was a shattered person, wanting reassurance from her loved ones. Her growing pains were enormous &amp; should I have a daughter like her, I would have died of heart attack.  It's comforting to know that she knows when to turn back &amp; time has definitely molded her into a persona which Madonna would be proud of.  The highlight of the book would have to be her telling us the formation of the team which would subsequently be known universally as the Spice Girls, thus, the term, Girl Power.  We also have a glimpse of the eventual sacking of their Manager, Simon Fuller &amp; the reason why Geri decided to pull out in the end.  The book is blessed with optimism ie. if you think you have the right stuff to make things happen, just do it as she's a living example that persistency does pay off.  Probably luck has something to do with it but when it comes down to the crunch, attitude matters too.  Thumbs up to her for her honesty &amp; I wish her all the best for her future endeavour.	2000-09-29
US	51378626	R1BI40PR6ROGEO	0753152053	334684628	Running a Hotel on the Roof of the World (Isis Large Print Nonfiction)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Amusing &amp; Informative Book	I enjoyed this book thoroughly for the author's sense of humour.  What a  sigh of relief reading a book about Tibet discussing issues which aren't  related with the human rights issues. This is a travelling book, a book of  observation which continues on the tradition of Bill Bryson &amp; Jan Wong  (of China Blues' fame). Still, we learnt a lot about the country by reading  between the lines.  I have read countless of books about Tibet &amp; China  &amp; most of them were about how the authors survived their ordeal.   Cliche`.  Here, we also read about the author's ordeal but of a different  kind.  We were brought behind the scene of an international hotel &amp; I'm  adamant that most hotel operators haven't removed 200+ dead rats from their  hotels before, rode in their hotel vehicle which were devoid of suspensions  &amp; driven in break neck speed by their driver who hardly spoke any  English, etc.  There's so much to be written but it's better to let the  prospective readers discover for themselves what a wee gem this book is.  I  finished this book in 2 days as I couldn't afford to put it down.  Damn  hilarious, compatible with the Fawlty Tower as claimed, &amp; truly a  memesrising experience.  Keep up the good work!	2000-09-19
US	51378626	R683ZCDJ28H2N	0679432965	621445218	My American Journey: An Autobiography	Books	4	8	10	N	N	The Journey of a Great Man	Despite its whopping size, the book was never dull to read.  We read about  his family &amp; upbringing; the people that inspired him to do better;  mostly his military career; his involvement with 4 different US Presidents  (Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, George Bush, Bill Clinton); the campaigns  that he was involved in, such as Desert Shields, Desert Storm, Restore  Hope, Just Cause.  This book also displayed the passing of time with the  ending of Cold War, the changing of emphasis from overseas adventure  towards domestic issues in USA, the breaking down of race barrier, the  recognition of sexual orientation issue in the military.  It's interesting  to read also about the diversity of personalities that Colin worked with.   Collin took the opportunity here to correct a few misconceptions that the  public had over his handling or involvement over several issues such as the  Iran Contra scandal, his support of Bill Clinton as the Chief Commander,  the aftermath of the Iraqi war which he refused to continue the advance  towards Iraq itself, etc. This book was a reminder to all of us that  everything is possible should we set our hearts into it.  That's what  American dream is all about, the land of opportunity is out there as long  as you are willing enough to take the chance no matter how many times you  might fall.  Colin, did however stressed about the derailment of America's  society over depicting too much sex &amp; violence in media &amp; how that  would inhibit the healthy upbringing of the younger generations that would  form the backbone of the future America.  With the advent of movies such as  There's Something About Mary, Dumb &amp; Dumber, Scary Movie, Me Myself  &amp; Irene, there's an element of truth in it, don't you agree?  You don't  need to be an American to appreciate the positive attitudes that Colin  tried to convey in his book.  If there's a little bit of Colin in every  &amp; each of us, this world would have been a more peaceful place, don't  you reckon?  Easy flow writing complemented by plenty of pictures tracing  his life from childhood to his life as a public speaker.  Highly  recommended.	2000-09-10
US	51378626	R153MZ67LIZUFC	067942167X	633797263	Home (Chic Simple)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	pedestrian interior design book	This book is ideal in affirming what we already know about interior  design.  It talked about suitability, proportion, textures, light, &amp;  other components that form the backbone of modern interior design.  It also  talked about coffee table, chairs, lighting, &amp; other items that play  pivotal role in our home decorations.  As the book progressed, it wandered  into sideline areas such as future technolgy that is growing in popularity  in shaping our home.  I would prefer the author not covering this point but  expanding into other areas that mattered more to interior design  enthusiasts.  What I'm finding this book enjoyable to read, however, would  be quotations from famous architects &amp; designers but why Candice  Bergen??  I also enjoyed reading the origin of various types of coffee  tables, the rule of thumb for the height of various chairs, &amp; so forth.   Examples illustrated thru the mean of pictures are nowhere sufficient but  then again, readers should be reminded that this book is merely 190 pages  with big fonts &amp; overblown pictures at times. It is indeed an easy book  to read &amp; readers are recommended to loan it from library to read it  rather than buying it as you are better off spending the money on other  better interior design books.	2000-08-29
US	51378626	R3VD4LM790FE0Z	0786861827	929732293	I Am Spock	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Enjoyable, Funny, Touching, Lasting Star Trek Legacy	I have been a &quot;trekkie&quot; for years but then, I don't have the  privilege of attending a Star Trek Convention as there's none of such a  thing in New Zealand.  The only way that I'm able to know more about the  character Spock and the person behind the mask, Leonard Nimoy is through  reading a book.  It's even better when the book is written by Leonard  himself.  Obviously, as Leonard penned this book this time around, he has  made peace with Spock.  No more &quot;I Am Not Spock&quot;.  The book  explained that his life &amp; Spock's life is intertwined. Nowadays, he's  gratified rather than showed resentment towards Spock for the success that  &quot;they&quot; are embracing together.  The book brought us behind the  scenes of the making of the original TV series, the movies till the first  endorsement of the New Generations.  It also touched upon other projects  that Leonard undertook such as &quot;Three Men &amp; A Baby&quot;, &amp;  other theatre projects.  Leonard also reviewed the process of deriving the  best ears for Spock, the origin of Spock's phrase Live Long &amp; Prosper  &amp; the famous V sign via Leonard's heritage, the firming up of scripts  that bonded the characters of Star Trek together, his relationships with  Gene Roddenberry, the hit &amp; miss involvements with Kirstie Alley &amp;  Eddie Murphy!  Wow, I didn't know that.  This is a book for avid Star Trek  fans &amp; for those readers who want to catch a glimpse of a dedicated  actor being faithful to his character even if it meant losing his own job.	2000-08-29
US	51378626	R2M4NAJ9WUW5OG	0385496338	428029467	Ten Thousand Sorrows	Books	3	4	6	N	N	a book about learning to let go	This book is named after a phrase that Elizabeth's mum taught her, that in life, there are 10000 sorrows &amp; 1000 joys.    Here, we were given an overview of the living hell that the author had to put up with.  She was  disgusted with herself as she reckoned that her look of mixed blood was  what caused her not been accepted by her peers.  Neither her adopted  parents nor her subsequent husband helped her case by mistreating her &amp;  thus, further undermined her self belief &amp; confidence.  Not having any  soul mates, she had nobody to turn to.  So, she physically inflicted harm  upon herself hoping that all bad things would go away.  I could feel for  her about the  Christian zealots that tried to convert all the people in  the world or else they would go to hell &amp; yet, they contradicted the  teaching of Christianity about humanity by doing harmful things to other  people.  How hypocritical can that be!  I could also feel how heart broken  she would be by having her favourite pet been taken away from her  especially at her toddler age.  It definitely brought back many memories.   When the author got older, she trapped herself in the vicious cycle, trying  to destroy herself &amp; along the way, hurted many guys that she had  relationships / affairs with.  At one stage, she's even suicidal as she  reckoned that suicide was the certain &amp; only way that she could be  closer to her mum who was long dead through the so called mercy killing.   At one stage, I felt that the book was about bickering, much complain but  no remedy.  Alas, towards the end, the author finally realised that all her  life, she had lost her plot altogether.  Rather than focusing upon 10000  sorrows, she should focus upon 1000 joys.  She finally learned that she  shouldn't forsake the gift of life that her mum had given her &amp; she  shouldn't be that foolish to take away her life or else, who's going to  take care of her much beloved daughter, Leigh.  She finally learned to let  goof the past, made peace not only with her dead mum but herself &amp;  finding peace &amp; tranquility in Buddhism.  She admitted that she's  coping with her problems now as she has had let go of her past.  I believe  this book is easy &amp; succinct to read.  Poems written by the author came  as a bonus as we managed to gauge the emotions of the author as she  undertook the tasks of writing them.  Still, I find this book less than  satisfying, if compared with Memoirs of a Geisha by Arthur Golden.  The  reason being this book is not as well balanced as the book talked a lot  about her childhood but as she grew up towards adulthood, everything seemed  to be fast track.  It seemed like incidents in her adulthood weren't  elaborate much at all compared with her childhood which she was able to  describe to the smallest detail imaginable.  Still, this is a book worth  reading reminding to ourselves how lucky we all are.  Irrespective what  form we are, what colour of skin we have, we shall just be thankful for the  life we have for making a difference in this world.  Commendable book.	2000-07-21
US	51378626	R33KWAO95PL7V0	1580930557	693024862	The Minimalist Garden	Books	3	34	37	N	N	Probably expecting too much from this book.	I waited for the book's arrival with high expectation after reading such rave reviews from the readers in Amazon.  Whilst this book is well-presented with structured discussions in the topics of extended home,  courtyard gardens, roof gardens &amp; terraces, pools &amp; water gardens,  country gardens, landscape gardens, plants &amp; materials, I expected more  meat from this book.  I found that there are too many recycled pictures  used ie pictures of the same thing but taken from different angles, or  pictures been used from previous chapters in order to illustrate the  writer's points.  Many high profile properties by world famous architects  are used such as by Tadao Ando, John Pawson, Glen Murcutt, Luis Barragan,  &amp; so forth but then again, their works were already covered in other  architectural or landscaping books.  Therefore, for avid readers like  myself, most of the freshness is no longer there.  Having said that, index  provided at the end of the book (containing suggested plants for minimalist  gardens) is very handy indeed.  The writer is helpful enough to suggest  what goes with what.  Some pictures of the plants are featured &amp; some  don't which could be quite frustrating at times but then again, I might be  expecting too much.  On the bright side, there's a website provided for  those readers who wish to seek further info upon the writer.  I wouldn't  say this book is the ultimate or the must have for the minimalist garden  but then again, it's a book worth looking into.  I wish this book contains  more discussion &amp; pictures on those historical Japanese zen gardens so  that we could understand in-depth about the fundamental of minimalist  garden but alas, only the world famous Ryoan-ji garden in Kyoto, Japan is  featured, which is only been touched upon briefly.  One of the highlight of  that garden is that irrespective of where you stand in that garden, you  would always see only 14 stones rather than the whole 15 which is supposed  to be there, which implies to you the ingenuity &amp; the clever planning  of the landscape architect of the past (which isn't even mentioned in this  book!)  Then again, I might be expecting too much.  Be warned that some  suggested planting in the book might not be practical in the long run  despite that the pictures illustrated look a million bucks.  For examples,  the usage of silver birch trees, they might look good now in cluster  planting or when they are small but when they have grown, &amp; when they  are going to seed, they could be a pain in the backside.  From our  experience, axe would come in rather handy in those situation.  Planting of  various kinds of grasses could be nice but unless you maintain them on  regular basis, they might look rather messy in the end.  Whilst minimalist  garden provides the serene effect, unless we use restrain &amp; commitment  to maintain, it might not be the easiest garden to have.  To achieve the  nice effects as illustrated in the pictures, substantial money needs to be  expended such as frameless conservatory.  Desert garden is only workable if  the weather of the place is suitable.  The desert plants would only rot to  the root if it is introduced in an equatorial countries, for argument's  sake. In that token, the writer should discuss not only the pros of his  suggestions but also their cons as well.	2000-07-02
US	51378626	R1Z7P835O9LAIW	0847820572	268108263	The Life and Work of Luis Barragn	Books	3	32	32	N	N	Good effort but there's a better alternative	If readers are looking for a concise book on Luis Barragan, this book is NOT it.  Rather, you are urged to look at Luis Barragan:  The Complete Works which not only have architecture pictures but also detailed  discussions by few academics &amp; even Luis Barragan acceptance speech of  his winning of the prestigious Pultizer prize.  But if readers are just a  pedestrian reader on architecture like me, you would appreciate this book  for it contains beautiful photography (sometimes, pictures of the same  thing taken from different angles) &amp; GENERAL discussions upon Luis'  refusal to conform to any particular architecture movements but rather  following his vision of how an architecture should be depicted.  He's not  only an architect but an architect &amp; artist combined, a sensible &amp;  faithful individual to his culture, core values.  The readers are also  given a quick overview of his exit from Guadalajara &amp; his rising from  ashes in Mexico, inspirations that he attained from his trip to the  Meditarrenean &amp; Africa (namely Morroco), his relationships &amp;  eventual downfall with artists that he worked with.  Overall, a good effort  but superficial for the academics.	2000-06-18
US	51378626	RZ8WBX5Y4JW8R	0393040852	481615589	Warriors of the Rising Sun: A History of the Japanese Military	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Thumbs up	I'm finding this book captivating to read.  I read many other history books mentioning about Japanese_Russo war but this particular offering discussed the incident in detail of why the war needed to occur at the  first place.  Unlike the book &quot;Rape of Nangking&quot; which is fairly  one-sided from an American Chinese point of view, this book projected the  Japanese been chilvarous during the Japanese_Russo war and also the Boxer  Rebellion in China.  Later, the author discussed the reason(s) why moral  values weren't taken as seriously as they used to by the Japanese during  the later war.  It's intriguing to note that Japan was a victim of its  circumstances &amp; that what the decision makers had planned for Japan  didn't turn up to be the way they intended to be &amp; by then, Japan had  already overextended itself &amp; far too late to turn back the clock.  It  also refuted about the conspiracy surrounding the bombing of Pearl Harbour  as discussed in &quot;Yamato Dynasty&quot; by Sterling Seagrave but due to  a simple misunderstanding of interpretation in the code-breaking!  The book  emphasised that should we flicked to the other side of the coin which the  Axis won the war, it's the Allies that would be depicted as the villains  for dropping the lethal &amp; inhuman atomic bombs which killed countless  of innocent victims including their own fellow soldiers who were held  capitve in Japan at the time.  In other words, it's not only Japan that  commited barbaric act during the wars but everybody seemed to be doing that  since the beginning of time.  In war, civilised people would become  &quot;monsters&quot; due to their surroundings &amp; their circumstances.   The book wanted us to see  that we are reflection of Japanese, that we are  only human.  Towards the end, the book discussed about the emerging  power(s) in the Asia Pacific region.  Japan has started to increase its  spending in military in order to be more prepared should countries such as  China, North Korea, Pakistan, &amp; so forth start to threaten its  sovereignity or perhaps, Japan has been called upon by the countries of the  world to play a pivotal role in maintain the stability in the region.  The  author mentioned that the military teaching in Japan is different from what  it used to be (less fanatical &amp; emphasising towards the freedom of  choice) but whether Japan would revert to its old self, or whether it would  play a different role together, we are urged to wait and see.  Well, we  might never know the whole truths about the history of the Japanese  military or perhaps what are discussed here are inaccurate but still, it is  a very well written book &amp; induces discussion.   It would be ideal if  war could be averted by any means.  History of the past reminds us of the  ugliness of war, lest we forget.  Highly recommended.	2000-05-27
US	51378626	R10HT65KV6JO21	2880462657	482998709	50 LIGHTS (Pro Design)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Interesting reference book	This book is divided into lights with various materials such as ceramics, plastics, paper, etc.  The lights are fun, zany, aesthetically pleasing,  as a form of art, contribution towards perserving the environment through  the usage of recylcleable material, avant-garde, elegant, practical,  simple.       The book also depicts the mechanism of some lights &amp; how  the lights are installed.  Some of them are plain simple but downright  effective &amp; I wonder to myself aloud why wouldn't I think of that  before.  This book doesn't contain much classic lights or probably, it  deliberately chooses not to feature lights of the famous but exposing the  readers to more diversified range of lights by various designers.  Despite  so, there are still lights by Philippe Starck, but Ingo Maurer can't be  seen &amp; neither does Archille Castiligione.  Probably this lighting  reference book is not as precise as I want but still, it doesn't detract  from the fact that it reveals to us there are almost unlimited way of  expressing our creativity over the expression of light.  Keep up the good  work.	2000-05-19
US	51378626	R284TURW7D1SY6	0395893275	229916835	Sony: The Private Life	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An eye opener	I was fascinated with Sony the day Walkman was brought into this world.  Then, I was only a boy &amp; Walkman was the in-thing in South East Asia.  After that, it seemed Sony grew from strength to strength.  I always wanted  to know an in-depth story about Sony but never came across a material which  is as good &amp; as true as Sony: The Private Life written by John Nathan.   Initially, I thought that the book was to be written in academic form but  to my pleasant surprise, it was written like a  good novel.  We were told  in detail of the founders, the proteges who were chosen to lead the company  but subsequently, some fallen out with Sony &amp; some went all the way.   We were also given a feel of power struggle within the firm, culture  clashes, xenophobia (particularly the acquition of Columbia Pictures),  abuse of power &amp; goodwill by film moguls towards Sony, personalities of  various kinds. Several products were mentioned as they formed the basis of  Sony today such as the world-famous Trinitron TV, Walkman, HandyCam.   Overall, a very good book to read.  I never expected it to make me laugh,  tense, sad, pensive but it did exactly just that.	2000-05-12
US	51378626	RV942SGOV3SR0	8481851493	692991699	Dream Houses	Books	4	3	3	N	N	something out of ordinary	This book is an interesting read due to the fact that it doesn't review houses that have already been over-exposed in other architecture books or magazines.  There are mixtures of minimalist home (celebration of geometric shapes by Toyo Ito in his S house), deconstructive home (Morphosis), modern  revivalist homes (as displayed by Ed Lippmann &amp; Milledge/Swaney Draper  in Australia in the spirit of Glenn Murcutt), post modernism home  (celebration of organic shape designed by Peter Waldman) just to name a  few.  Essays are kept to a minimum &amp; pictures are given the chance to  do the talking which is a relief.  One other good feature of the book is  the inclusion of site plan, elevation plan, building plan for our  reference.  I have been browsing through the book in many occasions &amp; I  find it simply SPLENDID!  Highly recommended.	2000-04-23
US	51378626	R1ORF9QTNIY3Q3	1579590365	112612258	The New Moderns: Architecture and Design for Living	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Room for improvement	Various aspects of contemporary living are discussed here such as the mastery of space &amp; light; functionalism of kitchen &amp; bathroom; the usage of stair as a piece of art, decorative tool &amp; as a functional  equipment to get people from one place to the other; the significance of  furniture &amp; fitting; the usage of colour &amp; texture rather than  resorting to white colour all the time (the book even went into such a  trouble of elaborating to the readers why white is still rendered as the  timeless colour in a modern living setting); modern house as a gallery  &amp; how it's transformed into a jewel piece in the nite time; how to  blend past with the present; outdoor assimilating with indoor.  I would not  categorise this book as a must have in understanding the concept of modern  living but it's indeed a valuable book to reinforce our view of what modern  living is all about.  The authors could have used MORE examples of  prominent architects from diverse background &amp; cultures but more  emphasis is put upon modern living in England, USA, &amp; Japan.  In other  words, when discussing modern living, we should discuss it in context of  its universal appeal which this book fails to address.  Many quality  pictures are included in this offering but I couldn't help noticing the  pictures are taken from the same setting but simply from different angles,  something like selling sizzles but no steak.  Otherwise, this is a user  friendly reading book to have especially on a cold &amp; wet nite.  Some  readers might find the directory of architects, shops, galleries, &amp;  suppliers at the end of the book handy for their usage though.	2000-04-15
US	51378626	R2WIGEUDO1L13T	0811826244	760311822	World Design: The Best in Classic and Contemporary Furniture, Fashion, Graphics, and More	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A visual treat	In my view, World Design is a rather subjective title to the book when most of the items discussed here are from Western countries, mainly powerhouse countries such as Italy, France, UK, Germany.  Most of the  modern classics are in here &amp; most of the daily items that we have  taken for granted are here too.  Again, designers that are chosen to be  included in this encyclopedia is subjective considering that there are  other designers that failed to be mentioned such as the highly acclaimed  late John Britten, a New Zealander who has designed &amp; built an organic  shaped motorbike using carbon fibre with many technological advances.  What  about the designers who designed the Jaguar E Type, Lotus Elise which uses  the aluminium spaceframe which saves the weight of the car &amp; not  compromising the safety of the passengers, Benz SLK with its ability to be  transformed from a convertible to a coupe in a matter of second, &amp; what  about Karem Rashid whose salt &amp; pepper shakers have been rendered as a  classics since?  The list could go on but having said that, this book  manages to inform the readers of those committed designers that designed  items for the people, by the people.  This book is by no mean a definite  book for design because as we speak, more new designer pieces are coming to  the market place, and designer pieces being evolved to meet the changes of  our requirements.	2000-04-15
US	51378626	RC8TKDJZNQLNV	0151004439	877433184	Snow Falling on Cedars: Movie Tie-in Edition	Books	4	0	0	N	N	an engaging &amp; atmospheric novel	This book unfolds itself slowly like a vintage wine.  Once you have a sip, you just want to keep going until the last drop.  The writing is marvellously descriptive &amp; haunting at times, evoking the sense of  being there among the readers.  It touched upon issues such as prejudice,  xenophobia, mentality of small town versus out of towners, lovers who are  divided  by circumstances &amp; responsibilities towards their family &amp;  race, getting to let go, memory of a place.  A truly satisfying read.  Highly recommended.	2000-03-25
US	51378626	RKKM6RZLOOIGL	0375406530	663303744	Waiting	Books	4	32	36	N	N	short &amp; sweet	For me, this book is an observation of human nature, i.e craving for something that we don't have, come to regret it later when we have already attained what we are wanting for, &amp; wondering what life would be like  should we maintain status quo.   Matter of the heart is never black &amp;  white but constantly entrapped us in the &quot;gray&quot; area where we are  seeking for answers but none we shall find.  Rather, we just have to take  life as it comes.  Along the way, we also come across the ever changing  &quot;political storms&quot; that swept through China over many years.   What &amp; who would be deemed the right ideologies &amp; model citizen of  the moment respectively would become the news of yesterday.  To put it  succinctly, the only certainty in life is uncertainty.  The novel also  explores how human behaviour is effected by their surroundings &amp; the  system that has been imposed upon them. What I'm finding intriguing is the  ability of the author to interweave many issues together &amp; to narrate  them as one simple tale.  Highly recommended.	2000-03-19
US	51378626	R3CIVM1CS53BZ2	0679733698	172085928	Dragon Lady: The Life and Legend of the Last Empress of China	Books	4	9	11	N	N	For those who wish to seek the truth..	I treated this book as a prequel to The Soongs Dynasty.  This book ended with the collapse of the Ching Dynasty (reigned by the Manchus) as China was gradually trying to gain its footing to become a Republic which is  eventually replaced by the Communist rule.  Dragon Lady dispelled the myth  about the Empress Dowager Tsu Tzi of her been a conniving, manipulative  power monger as she was depicted notoriously in many books but notably  &quot;Imperial Woman&quot; by Pearl Buck, &amp; also by many mini series,  movies offering in Asian countries till these days.  Whilst we readers  might never know the whole truth, at least Sterling Seagrave attempted to  substantiate what had been claimed with evidence.  A very engaging book  that expanded upon characters behind the scene such as Prince Kung, Robert  Hart, Li Hung Chang, Yuan Shih Kai &amp; so forth.  Only when we have  finished reading this that we start to appreciate the saying of how a pen  is more lethal than a sword as the so-called sinologists of Backhouse,  Bland, Morrison concoct fictitious stories to serve their interests &amp;  to minitiarise their supposed subservise Orients.  Shouldn't we live &amp;  let live so that the world is a better place to be in?	2000-03-13
US	51378626	R2FWFBFEVN1MX4	0399140115	913295461	Lords of the Rim	Books	4	19	19	N	N	a wee gem	I was pleasantly surprised by this offering of Sterling Seagrave's as normally, his works would be double the thickness of this book but hey, isn't it this saying that don't judge the book by its cover? The book  spanned thousands of years, going back through time in China illustrating  to us what events led to the exodus of Chinese overseas.  I simply couldn't  put the book down reading about those legendary statesmen like Sun Ping,  Sun Tzu, Wu Tze Shih, Chao Tsao, &amp; so forth.  I vaguely knew of what my  older generations told me about them when I was a kid but now, everything  is coming back to me. Sterling Seagrave is at his best unwoven all the  complex threads that have had been set up by those master puppeteer, who in  this case is none other than overseas Chinese. I don't believe the author  is making up stories here at all.  Many readers found the content rather  far-fetched but people in the region would disagree with that because  South-East Asia is undeniably an interesting place to be.  Rather, I'm  astounded by his in-depth knowledge of what's happening in the South East  Asia.  Many of the incidents mentioned were happening in my time &amp; I  could still vividly remembered what I read in the newspaper or what I heard  from the older generations who used to work for those tycoons.   Whilst  it's true that the second part of the book is becoming overbearing  (probably it's because I have known of the incidents already or that it's  already been covered in other Sterling Seagrave's offering), overall, this  is still a well-researched book. A job very well-done, indeed.	2000-03-08
US	51378626	RF51IXKL4WGJN	3822879657	842044595	1000 Chairs (Klotz) (English, German and French Edition)	Books	4	24	24	N	N	a small book with big content	This is a very informative reference book on chairs.  The introduction summarises succinctly the significance of chairs in our day to day life.    It's not only something that we could sit on.  The book is conveyed in 3 different languages, illustrated with mixtures of colour &amp; B&amp;W  pictures.  Biographies of the designers &amp; manufacturers' information  come in rather handy indeed.  Brief descriptions of chairs are useful at  times but then again, I'm finding the descriptions too brief for my full  understanding.  If the book is too technical, this would turn off general  public who merely want to have a general overview on designer or lifestyle  chairs.   The book was published in 1997 &amp; needless to say, more new  chairs would have come out by now.  Then again, I'm not complaining  considering that almost all modern classics chairs are included.  I think  it's quite risky to try to squeeze too much information into one book.   Having said that, this book deserves a spot on my coffee-table for being a  well presented book (as we expect of Taschen) &amp; as a good talking  point.	2000-03-06
US	51378626	R201MCPJ8ZV330	0714838373	759836205	Modern House (Modern House S)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	a well researched book	This book mainly deals with residential properties  &amp; most of them have already been featured in other architectural books.  In my opinion, this book works because it doesn't concentrate simply on properties in the  States as many architecture books tend to do.  Rather, it gives us a  broader picture by illustrating properties from all around the world.  Whilst the books are divided into various categories as discussed in the  editorial review, I particularly enjoy the discussion on properties that  fall either in abstract (clarity in design) category or representative (to  conform with their surroundings) category.  Whilst there are cross section  diagrams of properties, labelling would enhance our understanding of the  application of architecture on properties mentioned.  Otherwise, the  discussion could be overbearing or technical at times.  Still, I'm finding  this book to be an enjoyable read.	2000-03-06
US	51378626	R2HWYR9KYKCRZZ	0449904563	7671422	The Marcos Dynasty	Books	4	12	12	N	N	That's what Asian intrigue is all about	This book manages to shed a light on the Marcos Dynasty &amp; what they have done to the Phillippines.  Whilst some incidents seemed to be far-fetched, for those who have lived in Asia for a long time, the  incidents seem to make sense afterall.  Connections &amp; corruptions come  hand-in-hand.  The book also dented the shiny armour of USA of their  involvement in local politics.  The book is incomplete on its own.  Rather,  if we read all the book offerings by Sterling Seagrave such as the Yamato  Dynasty, Soong Dynasty, &amp; Marcos Dynasty, we would get a better  picture.  I suppose the author is running short of space.  otherwise, I  wouldn't mind knowing the aftermath of the Marcos Dynasty after they have  shifted to the States &amp; also the former wife that Ferdinand has left  behind.  Otherwise, this book is a very good effort, indeed.	2000-02-13
US	51378626	R15CUDMQ23WDZ3	3822885797	446884017	New Forms (Taschen's World Architecture)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	feast for the eyes	This book illustrated to us that as we are in tne new millenia, functionalism is no longer adequate to fulfill the purpose of architecture.  Rather, art plays a pivotal role to complete the whole picture.  There are  ample of illustrations &amp; pictures to justify such an argument.  Many  examples are to be seen in the excess of the 80s.  Even though extravagant  pieces are rarer these days, there are still odd ones that manage to stand  out from the crowd, notably, the Guggenheim Museum in Spain, Groninger  Museum in the Netherlands, La Flamme in Japan.  The author also does much  justice to the much overlooked Asian architecture with emphasis on Japan  with discussions on Tadao Ando, Isamu Noguchi, Issey Miyake, Arata Isozaki.   There are also discussions of certain architects who transcend the  boundary from art,interior design, product &amp; textile design into  architecture, &amp; vice versa.  Some that are worth mentioning are Frank  Stella, Philippe Starck (voila~), Alessandro Mendini, etc.  What an  exemplary book to feast &amp; I have no hesitation recommending this book  to architecture lover worldwide~	2000-01-17
US	51378626	RB00LKIS857K6	0393730107	354065263	Sourcebook of Modern Furniture (Norton Books for Architects & Designers)	Books	3	58	65	N	N	time for an upgrade	Undoubtedly, this is one of the best reference book re modern furniture on the market place.  Having said that, the readers should be aware that this edition is 4 years old.  Some of the modern furnitures listed have since  become modern classics &amp; many important pieces after 1996 are not  listed in here.  For example, the working chair produced by Steelcase that  is comparable with Aeron chair without its high price tag, Solo sofa by  Antonio Citterio for B&amp;B Italia, Vitra &amp; Kartell ranges by Philippe  Starck, more lightings by Ingo Maurer &amp; the list could go on &amp; on.   Moreover, the authors could include pertinent website &amp; e-mail address  for suppliers &amp; manufacturers on top of the snail mail addresses that  were provided.  It also would be more attractive if the book is printed in  colour.  Overall, it remains a substantial book.  PS: Has the author ever  considered updating the book online?	2000-01-08
US	51378626	R21TBA8YV2YGDL	0393315185	931202942	The International Style	Books	3	5	19	N	N	going back to where it all started	This book is a living proof that architecture is an evolving being.  It never stays stagnant.  What is deemed to be modern then has now become a foundation for new styles &amp; new materials to be developed to serve the  functions &amp; purposes of the occupants.  Whilst the book defined the 3  principles that formed the backbone of the International Style, it's doing  so as a mean of helping people to understand the 'style'better.  Architects  know better that there aren't any form of '-ism' but just good architecture  when all the criterions of their clients are met.  Half of the book is  devoted to photos of buildings applying the so-called International Style  but after you've seen one, you've seen it all.  They all look distinctively  indifferent to one another.	2000-01-08
US	51378626	R3Q923AP0ZQRAV	0140277447	803730078	The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II	Books	5	489	532	N	N	gripping no-nonsense documentary of Japan's gory past	This book is written plainly &amp; straight to the point.  At times, I'm finding it intolerable to  read the book as the activities committed by the Japanese during the war is totally inhumane &amp; immoral.  The necessity  of us reading &amp; understanding history is that we learn from our  mistakes &amp; building a better future for younger generations.  What I'm  finding intriguing is that till these days, the Japanese Government is  still reluctant to apologise &amp; pay compensations to the war victims.   Besides, history text books in Japan are written in a way that the war  guilt is not with Japan.  In a way, Asian countries are not as pro-active  as what the Jews have done in claiming reparations from Germany.  But what  Germany is doing now deserves to be commended for its willingness to work  hand-in-hand with the war victims. Its memorials are a reminder to its  citizens that in any wars, there are only losers.  The truth is now in the  open, &amp; this book by Iris Chang is opening door to the war victims  &amp; has prompted the Senate to take some actions.  I hope the surviving  war victims are able to see the silver lining at the end of the tunnel.	2000-01-08
US	51378626	R1G8DGCEQLC457	0810943719	444195079	The Pritzker Architecture Prize: The First Twenty Years	Books	4	13	17	N	N	well presented book	This book presents the winning works of those architects who have left their marks in the architecture world &amp; as a consequence, been rewarded with the Pritzer Prize.  There are a lot of beautiful &amp; high grade  pictures complemented by documents which are rather user-friendly to read.   You don't need to be an architects or architecture students to appreciate  this book. It deserves a place in your shelf or on your coffee table  hinting to your guests what a discerning &amp; sophisticated reader you  are.	2000-01-08
US	51378626	RU2TVY23ZVNVW	1885254636	716027257	Frank O. Gehry: The Complete Works	Books	4	17	21	N	N	insightful reference book	This book is a must for Gehry-fan.  Whilst I don't rever him like a God but I do admire his enormous talent &amp; his willingness to experiment with materials in constructing buildings &amp; furniture.  In this book,  you would get the feel that he's not merely an architect but also an  artist.  In other words, functionality &amp; aesthetics blend harmoniously  together.  I particularly enjoy the latter part of the book where it  displayed more of his famous works such as the Vitra office, Guggenheim  Museum, etc.  The first illustrations of his works are something that I can  do without because they are works that any draughtsperson could produce. I  suppose this book is a bibliography &amp; therefore, it's essential for the  readers to know of his humble beginning to understand his eventual  greatness.  Besides, with his new fame, abundant resources in the form of  budget, technology, assistant staff also come in very handy as well.  The  book does omit the kettle project that Frank worked with Alessi, though.   I'm looking forward to savour the 2nd edition of the book, if there's any.	2000-01-08
US	51378626	R32B596A7LMN4Z	9057037513	915419167	Harry Seidler: Selected & Current Works (The master architects series)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	pedestrian architecture book	This book covers a great deal of his works in Australia.  There were a few mention of his works in European &amp; Asian countries but his root firmly planted in his host country, Autralia.  The harsh landscape &amp; the sunny  nature of Australia's climate (NSW) provide him with opportunities to  tackle various aspects of light &amp; volume (strongly hinting to the  International Style) that he's unable to do in European countries. The book  reveals the architect's versatility in residential &amp; high-rise  developments.  A rather informative reference book but paper &amp; picture  quality could be better.  Suffice to say that this book doesn't break any  new ground but it successfully illustrates the accomplishment of a  wholesome architect.	2000-01-08
US	51378626	R2X5IHXBQX2MLO	0714837172	444731448	Tadao Ando: Complete Works (1969-1994)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	an insightful reference book	It is by no mean an easy feat to have a career change from a boxer to a prominent architect of an international stature.  Tadao Ando has done just that.  In addition of giving us the chronological order of all Tadao's work  to date (&amp; thus, his evolution in his work), the book also published  essays written by the architect himself.  This enables the readers to  comprehend the rationality behind his works.  It really doesn't matter if  the buildings created by Tadao are liveable but this is minimalist at its  best &amp; at its purest form.  By the way, the presentation of the book is  simply superb.  It looks like a concrete slab, which would snug rather  comfortably in any of Tadao's buildings!	2000-01-03
US	51378626	R18FMYROYSZWRF	080411109X	207990769	The Hundred Secret Senses	Books	2	1	5	N	N	lost the sparkle somewhat	I've never missed Amy's book. I'm finding her book rather palatable &amp; heart warming.  To me, this book seems to have lost the X factor that her previous works were able to produce. Could it be that Amy was compelled to  obligate her contract to write another book for her publisher in such a  short span of time?  I'm convinced that Amy could have done better.   There's nothing wrong for her to dwell on female characters as been  criticised by some readers.  Isn't it Chinese saying that we only do what  we know best?  Even though this is not her best book yet, I am still  looking forward to read her next offering.  USA is proud to have someone  like her.  Girl Power!	2000-01-03
US	51378626	R176VEPRFI7M5Z	0812932293	973312533	Losing My Virginity: How I've Survived, Had Fun, and Made a Fortune Doing Business My Way	Books	4	2	3	N	N	truly an inspiration	Brilliant is the one word I have to say about this book.  I can't wait to read the second phase of Richard Branson's life.  It really doesn't matter if he makes it or not as long as he's willing to try.  Just glad that he's  got a good ending.  I really have to pinch myself again &amp; again  reminding me that he's got such a balanced life, not just a successful  entreprenuer but also a wonderful husband &amp; father.  Definitely the  modern version of David versus Goliath!	2000-01-03
US	51378626	R3QQK9Z0Y4XIC7	0345429133	144220583	I Am Jackie Chan: My Life in Action	Books	4	2	2	N	N	a bit of an irony	Jackie's recent admittance that he had a fling with an ex Miss HK pageant &amp; produced a child outside the wedlock comes as an irony to this book which potrays him as a true gentleman.  I believe most Asian people grow up  with Jackie. When he was hurted during filming, we felt for him.  When he  striked gold in America, we were happy for him.  In a way, he represented  what we Asians aspire to be, going all the way.  His portrayal of an  average Joe Blogg, the guy who lives across the street stick with us for as  long as I can remember.  I just hope that his success doesn't make him feel  invincible so that he could do as he wish.  He should be aware of the Greek  tragedy that if you fly too close to the sun, you will get burnt  irrespective of who you are.  It would be good if the 2nd edition of the  book addresses his rationality behind his affair providing that his wife  has been supportive of him through his whole career.	2000-01-03
US	51378626	R1X7XN0PYYOW61	0060913185	699573807	Soong Dynasty	Books	5	20	22	N	N	things are not what they seem	I'm always intrigued by the Soong's family.  I have searched endlessly for materials that would shed some light upon the family history.  This book didn't disappoint.  I couldn't help be amazed with those complex networks  that were set up behind the scene that benefited the power &amp; money  brokers.  Ultimately, it's all about greed.  Haven't we seen this all  before?  It seems like people just don't learn from history.  Should the  readers read the next offering by the same author, Yamato Dynasty, you  wouldn't help noticing the uncanny resemblance between the traits of those  people who got their hands dirtied.	2000-01-03
US	51378626	R2DSQ3TJ27FNFE	0810937093	848872482	I.M. Pei: A Profile in American Architecture	Books	4	12	14	N	N	an insightful reference book re I M Pei	A very user-friendly book about this humble but undisputedbly one of the greatest architect of this century.  The book is humane in the sense that it potrays I M Pei as the architect, &amp; also, I M Pei the person behind  the limelight.  It's only fair to have his legacy left behind in all  corners of the world signifying how irrelevant that is of what race you are  to be regarded as a complete person &amp; architect.  His genius has  transcends borders, cultures, &amp; time.  I couldn't help noticing that  the Rock'n'Roll Hall of Fame, &amp; the shrine in Japan, &amp; probably  other masterpieces weren't included in the book. Perhaps it's time to have  the book updated.	2000-01-03
US	51378626	R1EUK4VW8KIKJ8	3829013779	359299134	The Dream Factory: Alessi since 1921	Books	3	11	16	N	N	a good summary of Alessi	Whilst this book is by no mean concise, it does give the readers a general overview of Alessi, its maestros, its philosophy &amp; so forth.  It's such an enjoyable &amp; simple book to read.  If the readers want to have an  in-depth knowledge of Alessi's product lines, &amp; so forth, perhaps,  Alessi: The Design Factor is a better option.	2000-01-03
US	51378626	R3FA19AECSPTCV	0385327072	620261018	Chinese Cinderella: The true story of an unwanted daughter	Books	3	1	3	N	N	now, I know how lucky I am	Tremendous effort for the author who had just penned her first book.  I just couldn't help feeling for her for the hardship that she had gone through. Just hope that after finished with her work, she finally laid her past to rest &amp; found the inner peace that she's looking for.  Having  said that, I still couldn't comprehend her action of writing her second  novel, Chinese Cinderella which dwelled on the same thing. The author  shouldn't waste the talent that's within her &amp; she should carry on  writing other interesting stories that we readers are looking forward to  oblige her by buying &amp; reading the books.	2000-01-03
US	51378626	R36VLOD761AOTY	3822885002	213963022	Philippe Starck (Jumbo Series)	Books	5	23	26	N	N	he's not only skin-deep	This book epitomises who Philippe Starck is.  There are a lot of surprises &amp; fun in this book that got me grinned from ear to ear.  Who needs literature of him when the pictures of his works speak louder than words?   Having said that, essays written by the great man himself at the end of the  book potrayed him as a great visionary, a man ahead of his time rather than  being a populist culture buffoon that some of my friends described of him.   In today's rat-race world, it's good to have someone like him producing  items that manage to stir our emotions &amp; making our hearts miss a beat.   In more ways than one, he's very French:  unpredictable, daring, romantic,  playful, enchanting, elegant,&amp; just be himself!  Viva La France~~  I  can't help wondering what's next?	2000-01-03
US	51378626	R1EBZU4MYZWFKK	014010870X	944370212	Life and Death in Shanghai	Books	5	2	2	N	N	triumph of the spirit	Whilst some readers have their viewpoints that the author had shown no sympathy towards the plight of their fellow Chinese, I think the issues that the book is trying to address here is about life struggle, human  endurance, &amp; triumph of the spirit.  The message is an affirmation that  if we have faith in something &amp;/or somebody, perseverance will show us  through the day.  Whilst it is easy for us to judge someone's character, we  have to analyse every &amp; each circumstances through their context.  Afterall, we human are not perfect.  But I still believe that there is  kindness in every &amp; each one of us.  There was a book written by Han  Su-Yin &amp; she briefly mentioned about the author but it's obvious of her  contempt for the latter person due to her background.  Sometimes, we  couldn't help wondering if the attack is personal or done objectively.  Whatever that is, I still can't help admiring the author for her courage in  standing up against the tall order.  I know I wouldn't.	2000-01-03
US	51378626	R1C0I1F2V4SCQB	080410753X	877380177	The Kitchen God's Wife	Books	5	0	0	N	N	personal tragedy that matches the Greek	It's great to note that this book manages to capture the hearts of so many people including mine.  I could relate to this book rather easily because of the similar culture that we share.  I'm feeling sorry for Amy for having  to put up with harsh criticisms of her exploiting her own culture to make  money, or for not having depth comparing with old classics.  For goodness  sake, we are in the new century now &amp; we shall move on with time rather  than lingering upon the past.  What's the point of writing a novel that is  so complicated that nobody is able to grasp?  Shouldn't we reserve those  classics to the libraries &amp; varsities?  With due respect, the mean of a  book is to be able to communicate with the readers.  Isn't it the book was  in the best-seller's list?  That means Amy must have done something right.   Look what's got the last laugh here.  Keep up the good work.	2000-01-03
US	51378626	R3CEGSW7W7S05R	0385482329	245728370	Red China Blues: My Long March From Mao to Now	Books	5	4	4	N	N	no nonsense, succinct but insightful book	I bought the book with reservation even though it was critically acclaimed by the Time magazine as there are so many books out there nowadays written by Chinese authors banking on their unfortunate past.  I really hate  whinging book because it leads the readers nowhere.  The essence of reading  a book is to broaden our knowledge, enabling us to reflect upon our past so  that we could build a better foundation for our younger generation.  I  believe Jan has done just that.  Ashamed that I couldn't meet her in person  when she gave a talk regarding the book in Christchurch 2 years ago.   Believe me, her sequel, Jan Wong's China is just as good or even better  than her first masterpiece.  Keep up the good work.	2000-01-02
US	51378626	RPIWJFLVRT7T0	0380793717	690427938	Siberian Dream	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Close but no cigar	This is one of those rag-to-riches, against-all-odds book.  Whilst I am happy for her success and wishing her the best for the future, I believe that the way she conveys her characters are rather two-dimensional-ish or  stiff.  I do not mind if the pace could be quickened up or the flow been  made more fluid.  It meant to be a delightful book to read but then again,  I found the reading experience overbearing.  Perhaps, I have too high of an  expectation for this book.	2000-01-02
