US	51375616	RQTOS2WF7845N	1593977514	377846531	The World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-first Century	Books	5	4	5	N	N	For all Americans concerned with the future of the country	This is a brilliant overview of how globalization affects our lives today. The author expands his premise that the world is becoming flat in the sense that almost anybody's job can be done cheaper somewhere in the world. Further, since communication can now be accomplished with the speed of light, it's easy to deliver work performed almost anywhere in the world. <br /> <br />An example in the book illustrates his point. U.S. accountants can buy the services of an Indian accounting conglomeration in Bangladesh for a low price and resell it to their clients and make a better markup than if they did it in-house. End of story, right? Wrong. Now that the Indian accounting form knows the names of the accountant's clients, they can solicit the business direct, and that's what makes the world flat. <br /> <br />Those who are leveling the playing field are polling up all over the world, but the U.S. is contributing its share to make the world flat. Among the most notable U.S. examples in the book, is Wal-Mart, of course. The Wal-Mart story brings to mind the immortal words of Pogo: \\"We have met the enemy, and they is us.\\" In short, the conflict is not longer between labor and management. It is between customer and worker. The consumer wants more for less. In this light, no union can guarantee a job. Only a customer can. <br /> <br />The Wal-Mart story used in the book is taken from the New York Times, November, 2004: \\"If there is any place where Wal-Mart's labor costs find support, it's Wall Street, where Costco has taken a drubbing from the analysts who say its labor costs are too high.  \\"Wal-Mart has taken more fat out than Costco because Costco feels that it has an oblicgatoin to its workers. \\"Costco's pre-tax margin is 2.7% of revenue, less than half of Wal-Mart's margin of 5.5%.\\" With an average hourly salary of $8, the largest company in the world doesn't cover all of its employee's health care. U.S. taxpayers get stuck with the difference. Wal-Mart employees are not self-sufficient in health care. The author opinions this is going to be a looming political issue. Do Wal-Mart customers care? Most of them probably are not aware of this fact and even if they are, Wal-Mart's low prices sucks them in. As the earth becomes flat in an economic sense, it seems that the element of humanity gets further and further removed. How deeply do we want our government into public health care? <br /> <br />The author sets down ten forces that flattened us. They are 91) End of the Berlin Wall (opened up never-before communication among countries) (2) When the Internet became world-wide (3) Development of Internet software that made all manner of work flow possible (4) Development of software that made web browsing possible (5) Development of outsourcing of almost anything and everything (6) Off-shoring; moving whole plants to other countries to reduce production costs (7) Development of the horizontal supply chain; just-in-time delivery to companies and retailers (8) In-sourcing whereby one company solves another company's problem (9) New Internet programs that make it easy to pinpoint research (1) New ability that enables a person to take his desk anywhere in the world with him; cell phones, hand-held computers, Wi-Fi, etc. <br /> <br />\The result of all this: People and businesses can now come and go almost anywhere in the world and survive. The author offers his views on where the U.S. fits in to this new world. For now he believes we have more educated, trained people than any other country. Secondly, that Americans are vastly more resourceful than those of any other country. But in twenty years, other countries are going to surpass us because (1) we are not training enough young people to become scientists and engineers (2) Americans lack educational discipline, particularly in the lower grades and finally (3) the American work ethic takes a back seat to young people of most other countries because they are willing to work harder and longer.<br /> <br />His conclusion: We didn't start this rush to a flat world and we can't stop it, but we can live and prosper in it if we have the imagination and motivation. While the author's views are his own, they are a synthesis of views and opinions he gleaned from hundreds of interviews with business leaders, politicians, scientists, writers and well-known personalities from various walks of life. This reviewer strongly recommends this fine book to any and all Americans concerned with the future of the country. <br />	2005-07-19
US	51375616	RBC8CZ3AG1BN7	0684807610	438783610	Benjamin Franklin: An American Life	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A new, and revealing view of Franklin as founding father	This bestseller keeps hanging in there week after week with good reason. It presents a new view of Franklin as a founding father.  There are other founding fathers, of course: Washington, Jefferson, and Adams come to mind almost immediately. But Franklin was different from them. Author Isaacson describes him as: \\"America's best scientist, inventor, <BR>diplomat, writer, and business strategist, and also one of its most practical, though not most profound,political thinkers.\\"<br />Isaacson has hit upon one other thing that Franklin did throughout his adult life that has molded Americans into what they are today. He believed in the virtues and values of a middle class.  This idea was new to the world because it was not until Franklin's time that the concept of a middle class even came into being. Up to then, the world was divided mostly into rich and poor, with nothing in between. Unlike Washington, <BR>Jefferson, or even Adams, Franklin believed in the common man; he believed common men could be trusted to run a government based on human decency.  And Franklin, ever PR conscious, worked atcreating an image of himself as a common man. Indeed, before the lords and nobles of the French Court, as an aging diplomat, he wore a fur cap, depicting himself as a backwoods sage (but he extracted enough money from them to keep our Revolution going).<br />Throughout, the book reveals many new insights into the life and character of this giant of American history. The more the author tells us about the real Franklin, the greater his appeal as a founding father...he was funny and bright.  Washington, Jefferson, or Adams, though great, or perhaps greater giants of American history, tended toward the serious and heavy side of human relationships. Franklin possessed a fun-loving nature, <BR>a ready wit, and at the same time, was an astute observer of the human scene as well as a delightful drinking companion.    <br />If you enjoy reading about people who made this country what it istoday, surely there is no better volume than Isaacson's Benjamin Franklin: an American Life. It's clear that Isaacson thought long and hard about the apt title. Franklin's profound influence upon on us as Americans is very much with us today.	2003-12-29
US	51375616	R6DT6HZPXZ4Y9	0743225708	281016025	Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A true story full of excitement, intrigue	A fascinating, almost unbelievable story about five MIT students (some were dropouts) who took Las Vegas casinos for three million bucks over a five year period They did it by counting the cards in Blackjack shoes, never once revealing what they were doing.  Just reading their story makes it sound easy, but it was far from that. The participants, mostly engineering majors, were young, energetic, supersmart, and willingly accepted a lifestyle of rigid personal discipline. Although they did have some fun interspersed with intense periods of rugged concentration at the gaming tables, their \\"gambling\\" junkets from Connecticut to Las Vegas were serious business. <br />Probably not many are aware that for over twenty years, there has been a Blackjack Club in existence at MIT. A few years ago, a team of Blackjack players was assembled from among Club members. The team elected to spend their spare time studying and playing the game of Blackjack, aided by exhaustive computer analysis. Their goal was not to get the best Blackjack hand, but to beat the dealer.<br />Why Blackjack? Over an extended period of time, Blackjack is the only card game that is beatable. It is subject to continuous probability meaning that the cards you see will affect the cards you are going to see. Winning at Blackjack is a matter of figuring out how to take advantage of the game's continuous probability, but to do so, it's necessary to have enough money to withstand severe swings of the game against you. <br />Using what were then, many advanced strategies, the team played Vegas casinos for five years, with never a losing year, and never earned a return of less than thirty percent playing high-stake tables. Their actions were perfectly legal because they didn't alter the game, change the nature of the game, or alter the rules.  They discovered, however, that the casinos finally did catch on to what they were doing. They, of course, could not be prosecuted, but casinos have other ways of dealing withpatrons who beat the house...<br />Considering the heavy personal discipline of mind and body the players went through in the course of the five-year junket, it would seem they earned their money. After five years of play and over three million dollars later, there is a surprise ending to this gambling saga. A true story full of excitement, intrigue, and a revealing inside look at America's gambling industry.	2003-01-13
US	51375616	R1Z9VMFUIEST8D	0066620996	205785288	Good to Great: Why Some Companies Make the Leap and Others Don't	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A fine work - makes a case for rethinking organizing workers	If you are involved in any human endeavor where people work together to accomplish goals, this best-seller is worth your time.  Recall, Jim Collins co-authored a previous best-seller, Built to Last, on why some businesses lose and why some win big. This new 5-year study examines how good companies become great companies, but the findings easily apply to schools, churches, political groups, etc. The book examines old \\"success\\" clichés and reveals fresh insights on what constitutes resultful leadership. It explodes many popular management cult myths and gets to the human elements that  build a successful organization. <br />Some rather uncommon CEO characteristics of new-look leaders: They are self-effacing, reserved, even shy and possess a great deal of genuine humility; no big egos here. They don't try to manage change or motivate people. They are driven to produce sustained results. They are ready at any time to confront the brutal-truth facts of their organization with steadfast faith they will prevail<br />The companies picked for the spotlight have an interesting people culture. If you paid them a visit, you would be struck by the evidence of self-discipline, and the absence of an in-your-face bureaucracy.  Employees are picked because they are already self-disciplined; they were hired because those who hired them know  that if you hire people who are already self-disciplined, they don't need to be \\"managed.\\" Guided and taught, maybe, but not tightly managed. In such a company, there is plenty of arguing and<BR>debate in pursuit of the best answers, but after the disagreement, everybody gets behind the decision.<br />Winning companies create a climate where truth is heard. The people love what they do partly because they love the people they work with. They know you can't manufacture passion or motivate people to feel passionate; you can only discover what ignites passion.  Rule by bureaucracy goes away if you have the right people.<br />Other leadership tidbits:<BR> -A \\"stop doing the wrong things\\" list, is more important than a \\"to do\\" list.<BR>-The author found no links between executive compensation and the process <BR>of going from good to great. Compensation was used to get and keep the right people.<BR>-The good-to-great companies were able to identify every item of cost, income            <BR>           and investment with the single person responsible for that item.<BR>-Ten of the eleven CEOs  came from within their own organization.<BR>-When in doubt about a potential new hire, don't hire. Keep looking.<br />The findings and conclusions in this fine work indicate clearly the need to rethink how we go about organizing people to insure the success of any endeavor. Many old \\"leadership\\" clichés don't apply.	2002-04-27
US	51375616	R1BTDQIGVD3BZK	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Adams as a giant, uncompromising architect of America	Thanks to this splendid author, we now know so much more about America's founding fathers. This fine work delves deeply into the personal lives not only of Adams, but Washington, Jefferson, Franklin and other political leaders of the time. They were a polyglot group with perhaps Arron Burr and Alexander Hamilton being the most disturbing characters among them, yet not without their own unique contributions.<br />In the annals of American history though, Adams has seemingly not had the attention, nor credit he deserves as one of the giant, uncompromising architects of America. The book has a ring of genuine authenticity. McCullough studied over a thousand unpublished Adams family letters that shed new light on the inside, private lives of the people he writes about.<br />The author treats you to a sometimes unvarnished, painfully human look at the foibles, shortcomings as well as the steely dedication of the founding fathers. They were among the most successful, accomplished individuals in the Colonies. With all their success and worldliness, they could be as pleasant as a root canal, arrogant, jealous, mean spirited. rude, abrasive, stubborn. Yet with all that, they set aside their differences and worked together so that 200 years later we enjoy the fantastic benefits of their remarkable sacrifice and work.<br />Adams was the first president to occupy the White House. As an instigator of the Declaration of Independence, he was marked as first in line for hanging by the British king. Adam's fortunate marriage to the wise, ebullient Abigail Adams is one of the most inspiring love stories in American history. He was first close friends, fellow diplomat, then enemy, and finally friends again with Jefferson. Although Adams was eight years older than Jefferson, incredibly, they both died on the same day, July 4, 1826.<br />After reading this fine work, one cannot help but come off with a deeper understanding of the gut-wrenching price we must be ready to pay at any time to keep this country going.	2001-10-17
US	51375616	R3HARZV3YRROP5	0914839454	755307843	The Book Casino Managers Fear the Most!	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Facsinating reading -- even if you've never been to a casino	Even if youve never been in a casino, youll find this inside view of casino gambling fascinating. In America, casino gambling ploys are subtle and plentiful. Most people never figure out how casinos get you to part with your money and they dont care. Author Karlins is a psychologist and a university professor whose extra curricular sport is gambling. I would describe him to be a mid-range bettor who prefers dealer games.<br />Karlin believes that if you understand how casinos hook you, its possible to know how to use them instead of being one of the sheep. Following are a few of his insights on casino gambling.  So whats different about casino atmosphere other than the heavy tobacco smoke? A lot. Casinos are carefully designed to make you lose; to entice you in and keep you there as long as possible because the longer youre there, the more you lose. Fact: Youve never seen a wall clock in a casino and you never will.<br />Then theres the powerful currency-devaluation ploy. You spend freely at casinos because you feel your money is worth less. How? Through the use of chips and easy credit. You forget how much you put down when its in the form of a chip. Everybody loves a party and casino operators manufacture gaiety. Bells ring when theres a winner; and theres sympathetic solace for losers with a reminder: Next time. Of course theres usually live, happy music around, not to mention attractive female employees handing out free drinks, and shills gambling freely with house money. Freebies range from T-shirts to expensive, paid junkets for high rollers.<br />The second half of this revealing book outlines strategies you can use to win more than you lose. Here are a few of them. If you play dealer games, get the dealer on your side because directly or indirectly they can help you win. If you understand the built-in traps casino operators present, you can avoid them. Never walk into a gambling establishment on impulse; know which games pay the most and play them. Dont spend long lengths of time in a casino; after a couple of ours, fatigue sets in and you make more mistakes.  Know in advance how mulch money you can afford to spend and leave when its gone. Included in the book is a handy chart on how to figure out which games pay the most in each casino. Play only those games you understand and that offer the best payoffs. Karlin labels this as dumb, dumber and dumbest: Increasing your bets to recoup when you are losing. Reduce your betting level if youre losing or leave. Gambling, according to the author, is a stimulant and you cant let it get out of hand. Casinos are designed to encourage excessive levels of stress. Your gambling performance is best when you experience *moderate* levels of arousal.	2001-09-16
US	51375616	R2DBAP0SX17QTT	0671723650	132993260	How to Win Friends & Influence People	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Tried, proven observations on how to get along	One might well characterize this famous author as the Ben Franklin of our era; a kindly philosopher dispensing wit and wisdom. Wherever you are in life, his tried, proved observations on how to get along with your fellow man (without manipulation) will help you get more of what you want. The overwhelming proof lies in the fact that over 15 million copies have been sold, and it has been translated into every known written language.<br />Why this is an American classic is best summed up in a quote from the jacket: \\"The sole purpose of this book is to help you solve the biggest problem you face: The problem of getting along with and influencing people in your everyday business and social contacts.\\"<br />Carnegie referred to his book as \\"A working handbook on human relations\\" and so it is. He sets down nine principles that change attitude and behavior along with true stories. The story examples may seem a bit dated, but don't let it bother you that you don't know the people mentioned in the book. It's easy to fit contemporary personalities into them and the end result is the same. Bedrock principles of human behavior are revealed and illustrated.<br />A few Carnegie gems: \\"It's easier to criticize and condemn than it is to try to understand where the other person is coming from. \\"Keep in mind that people are not creatures of logic, but rather of emotion, pride, vanity and prejudice. \\"The deepest urge in people is the desire to be important. \\"Exude courage, frankness and good cheer. \\"If you are wrong, admit it quickly and emphatically. \\"Welcome disagreement, distrust your first impressions, control your temper, thank opp9onents for their interest, postpone action until you think it through. \\"People usually have at least two reasons for doing something: one that sounds good and the real reason. \\"Nothing works in every situation. \\"Dramatize what you have to present. \\"Make it vivid and interesting. \\"Praise lavishly and show honest appreciation.\\"<br />Once you thoroughly understand what Author Carnegie is saying about how to get along with people and get what you both want, it's easy to practice the principles. But we forget, so it's a good idea to have your personal copy and re-read it at least once a year. Pick up a copy just to have it around.erstand what Author Carnegie is saying about how to get along with people and get what you both want, it's easy to practice the principles. But we forget, so it's a good idea to have your personal copy and re-read it at least once a year. Pick up a copy just to have it around.	2001-09-12
US	51375616	R1TDGEOCI9YTUB	0784208735	378332310	Taming the Beast: Choice & Control in the Electronic Jungle	Books	5	3	3	N	N	How to be at peace while awash in information age technology	The author has unusual credentials. A Ph.D., he teaches Technology Assessment at the University of Alaska in Juneau, and directs the University's Educational Technology Program. He is an original thinker with fresh views on how to be at peace while awash in Information Age: technology.\\" He provides a thinking process that helps make it serve you rather than rule you. The impression one gets from the media often leaves a disturbing, hopeless feeling of being controlled by a technology. \\"Technology\\" though, is just a new way of labeling something that's been around forever; its called \\"change.\\" Remember the old rag about change: \\"If you don't bend, you break.\\" We must be in control and not allow technology to break us. Ohler has figured out many of the questions we need to ask about technology. He has put them down in a way you can understand and use, but he doesn't presume to know all the answers. This book deals with the grassroots problems of change. Uncertainty, unpredictability, uncontrollability. A sampling of the questions we must ask to maintain control of a technology. Three basics: (1) what is unique about it? (2) what is the real ultimate goal (any manipulation)? (3) how does it impact environment, the individual, institutions? Is it a tool or a machine? Tools are controlled by the user; machines force us to adapt ourselves to them which is a loss of control. Is the technology an information machine, or a work-producing machine? Ohler points out that tools and machines extend our senses, physical capabilities, our intelligence, and emotional experiences. In the wrong hands, they can be dangerous; properly used, they can improe our lives. Example: A microwave oven reduces the time spent cooking, increases the amount of time to do something else, but reduces family participation and interaction. Why it's important to ask questions about a technology. If you think about it, advertisers and lawyers don't particularly seek truth. They earn their keep trying to get others to adopt a particular point of view, using the tools of truth, as do their intentions, but we need to be aware of \\"presentation,\\" versus \\"content.\\" This is scary because of the persuasive power of information technology. Instead of \\"convince me\\" the operative words should be \\"inform me.\\" This is a book with an important message for our times. We can expect that the pace of change will only increase and it's up to us to understand whether the changes are for the better or may destroy us. Ohler has set out a roadmap to enable us to evaluate the opportunities of anew technologies. Not an easy read, but this little book (141 pages) deserves a place on any thinking person's bookshelf.	2001-08-28
US	51375616	R2K68VCB51YRT7	0767902793	390607195	How to Cook Without a Book: Recipes and Techniques Every Cook Should Know by Heart	Books	4	7	8	N	N	For those who don�t want to bother with recipes...	If you don't want to bother with recipes, you can do very nicely in the kitchen, feed a big or small group, by remembering your favorite dinner entrees and vary them with whatever you have on hand. To do this though, you must maintain a well-stocked kitchen. Not all that costly considering the cost of eating out, and that food is a bargain today.<br />According to the author, the way to cook without recipes is to know how to make a few dishes such as: Omelets, pasta, stir-fry, pot roast, steak, fish, port chops or pork loin. Take, for example, an entrée of pot roast, potatoes and vegetables you make in a crockpot. The difference in each pot roast meal is the variation of ingredients you have on hand to create \\"different\\" meal each time. Switch to sweet potatoes, for example, or add different vegetables, herbs, flavorings, garnishes, plus original touches to an accompanying salad.<br />The author points out that there probably is no mastery of this method of meal preparation. It's an on-going learning process. You begin by experimenting, develop a few entree dishes, then go from there.<br />Among the items to have on hand in the pantry, refrigerator and freezer to make interesting variations are:<br />An assortment of frozen vegetables in the freezer Herbs and spices: Basil, bay leaves, pepper, cinnamon, cloves, oregano, sage and thyme in the pantry In your refrigerator: gingerroot, garlic, onion, lemon, carrots, celery, green/red/yellow peppers, cabbage, limes. On your pantry shelf: chicken broth, beef broth, clam juice, cans of crushed and while tomatoes, canned tuna, canned clams, peanut butter, honey,  jam/jelly, dried mushrooms, noodles, rice, polenta, Dijon mustard, assorted vinegars, soy sauce, canned beans, mayo, breadcrumbs, dried fruit, raisins, dried cranberries, black and green olives, assorted nuts, potatoes, yams, red potatoes.<br />There's a whole chapter on salads with exotic ingredients ideas, including cheeses, fresh fruits, dried fruits, vegetables, and dressings. There are many basic meal ideas in this useful book too, along with this simplified meal idea. Here, indeed, is a book you can use as a handy reference anytime.	2001-07-08
US	51375616	R1ZA2HD66KVCXK	0694521485	744363528	Body For Life	Books	5	25	28	N	N	One who wants to sincerely help you improve your life	For 78 weeks this book has been on the New York Times best seller list, a remarkable record when you understand that the authors are asking you to change your life and plunge into a life of exercise and diet. Americans like to read about these subjects, but are spectacularly disinterested in doing anything about it despite overwhelming scientific evidence that exercise and diet are basic to health, well-being, and longevity.<br />You begin to buy off on the idea in the book though, that not only can you do this, but also, you can have a new body in 12 weeks. Why? Well just inside the front and back covers are 100 \\"before and after\\" un-retouched snap shots of men and women of all ages who did it. Then too, Author Phillips comes across as one who sincerely wants to help you improve your life. His motivational approach is summed up in this:<br />\\"...one of the reasons so many people fail to break bad habits is because they focus on what they shouldn't be doing - what they shouldn't eat, that they shouldn't smoke or drink - all those things they shouldn't do. I recommend you focus just as much on things you should start doing because new patterns help `crowd out' the unauthorized ones.\\"<br />Phillips suggests that one way to convince yourself to follow his plan, is to stand naked before a mirror and see if you are happy with what you see (who among us can stand this test?). The book also explodes many exercise myths, among them:<br />Myth: Aerobics is better than weight training Fact: To transform your body, you must train with weights<br />Myth: The longer you exercise, the better Fact: Too much exercise prevents results<br />Myth: Count calories Fact: Count portions, not calories<br />An interesting point is that you don't need fancy equipment. You can do most of the exercise with barbells and dumbbells in a home gym or at any fitness center. The book concludes on the high note that people are discovering they do have the power to change, that they do have the abilityto create not only a better body but also a better life for themselves. If you try the program, Author Phillips makes it clear he personally would like you to contact him and tell your story, not to mention that you are free to contact him anywhere along the way. Anybody ready for a change?	2001-04-15
US	51375616	RU030MHIH58MM	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Don't dismiss this book as another ho-hum war story	Don't dismiss this book as another ho-hum war story. The lives of the now-famous six American Marines who raised the Flag on Iwo Jima's Mt. Suribachi are traced literally from cradle to grave. It is an intimate look at Americans and who we are.<br />In the annals of war, the taking of Iwo Jima by the Marines was the bitterest, most costly victory in the Pacific, and indeed, that of any other war in which this country has been embroiled. The Marines invaded the Island February 19, 1945, raising the flag on Mt. Suribachi four days later. Final victory came in March after 6,821 Marines died. <br />What makes this war story different is that the reader is able to stand back and view the life-long impact on individual participants of vicious hand-to-hand conflict, hero media coverage, bands, parades, and all the other attendant trappings of war. It separates the real from the unreal. Memories of war fade though, and it's often difficult for subsequent generations to arouse much more than lip service patriotism to heroes of past wars. One wonders if more should be expected; life must go on.<br />But Flags of Our Fathers has more to contribute than stirring wartime deeds. The lives of six participants are traced from childhood, their action on the battlefield to maturity and death. It's about how  individuals can suffer severe, cruel human torture, yet somehow manage to keep going and make a success (or failure) of the rest of their lives. All the strengths and weaknesses inherent in people are laid bare, distilling the basic elements of gut survival.	2001-02-10
US	51375616	R1ZV4K96NQGXCB	1884320163	299904936	Designing the Future	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Frank Lloyd Wright's Youngest Apprentice...	...lays out new directions for the most pressing problem of our time:  How we live. The basic premise is that the physical design of homes, buildings and streets helps or hurts the people who live there and that we cannot continue to use the land to build the kind of infrastructures we are putting in place.  A practicing architect with impeccable credentials, Swaback not only set down the reasons why, he also lays out imaginative, practical guidelines for new and better ways to live.  The following quote from the book points up the troubled feeling for the quality of life in America shared by many:<br />Americans sense that something is wrong...we drive by gruesome tragic suburban boulevards of commerce, and we are overwhelmed at the fantastic, awesome, stupefying ugliness of everything in sight-fry pits, big box stores, office units, lube joints, carpet warehouse, parking lagoons, jive plastic townhouse clusters, signs, the highway itself, clogged with cars as though the whole thing had been designed by some diabolical force bent on making human beings miserable.\\"<br />      The root cause of the problem, according to Swaback, is the outmoded apparatus we have put in place to control land use called \\"zoning.\\" He describes it as a fragmented, uncoordinated process that begets endless sprawl.  Zoning laws promote the self-destructive babbles of pro-growth, slow-growth, or no-growth; they also perpetuate endless political infighting and acrimony, but never solve the problem of proper land use.  Through examples and case histories, he snows that the cost of sprawl will eventually overwhelm us because it is the harbinger of more pollution and ongoing, declining community values. <br />Solutions to population growth and density are complex and not easy to come by, by Swaback believes we can must develop more wholesome living environments,.  He proposes \\"Micro Communities\\" in open space with connected corridors.  New stand-alone communities would be situated on dedicatedspaces o varying size with a minimum of forty acres or more.   All would include single-family homes, condominiums, schools, offices, light manufacturing, support services, and government centers within walking distance of home on tree-shaded pats and bicycle trails. For the more adventuresome, there is a centralized car pool, and public transit.<br />The author makes a strong case that living center clusters reduce air pollution, traffic congestion, and the rising cost of building, not to mention widespread social deterioration created by sprawl. Micro communities are pedestrian-centered therefore more likely to develop the human qualities of the inhabitants for tolerance and cooperation because we frequently meet our fellow man face to face as neighbors. Culturally, this new design concept encompasses facilities for all levels of education, participation in music, drama, appreciation for architecture, writing, crafts, visual arts, dance, film, theater,and whatever new forms of culture evolve. <br />Swayback is a practicing architect and original thinker who has mastered the art and disciplines of this craft. In Designing The Future he has used his considerable skills to conceive new and better ways to live by designing an environment that encourages us to become better human beings. His message: Before it's too late, we had better decide whether we are going to ad to American's wealth or systematically destroy all we have been given.<br />Vernon D. Swaback, AIA, AICP, is the owner-manager of Swaback Partners, a 21-year old Artichectural-Planning organization in Scottsdale, AZ. He moved to Arizona from Chicago in 1957 to become Frank Lloyd Wright's youngest apprentice and remained with the Wright organization 21 years. Designing The Future was published by Arizona State University's Herberger Center for Design Excellence and is in demand as an architectural text throughout the world.<br />Reviewer's Note: It is this reviewer's opinion Designing The Future is deserving of best-seller status because of its original, perceptive ideas about a gigantic environmental problem which is reducing the quality of life in America.	2000-12-11
US	51375616	R333FBBPOAYMMU	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Casually looking title, you are hard-put to figure out...	...how it could possibly be &quot;a runaway best seller.&quot;<br />No less than thirty-three sage reviewers (thirty-six if you count the three reviews no the cover) heap praise and commendation on Bill Bryson's story of his 870 mile trek over the Appalachian Trail (the trail is actually 2,200 miles long). All this, mind you, carrying a forty-pound pack. (Have you hoisted a forty-pound pack lately, let alone try to walk with it?) And all earthly needs, on such a walk, must come from this pack on your back. I daresay few of us have the strength or fortitude to carry out this kind of venture, particularly, as Bryson did, in part, with snow on the ground.<br />In 1996 that's what Bryson and his friend Stephen Katz did and Bryson made it into a 274-page story that is \\"choke on your coffee funny\\" as one reviewer put it. For example: \\"I wanted to get back on the trail, to knock off some miles. It is what we did. Besides, I was bored to the point somewhat beyond being bored out of my mind. I was reading restaurant place mats, then turning them over to see if there was anything on the back. At the lumberyard, I talked to workmen through the fence. Late on the third afternoon, I stood in a Burger King and studied, with absorption, the photographs of the manager and his executive crew (reflecting on the curious fact that people who go into hamburger management always look as if their mother slept with Goofy), then slid one place to the right to examine the Employee of the Month awards. I then realized I had to get out of Franklin.\\"<br />Not only is Mr. Bryson's tale excruciatingly funny, he is an astute observer who lays out powerful insights on how modern mankind is wantonly destroying nature at an alarming pace. He captivates you with penetrating wit, yet at the same time, makes it crystal clear that if we keep tearing nature down at our present frantic pace, there soon won't be any nature with the result that, indeed, there may not be any of \\"us.\\"	2000-12-10
US	51375616	R1ILI8L7EICZPI	0300081014	421536387	Almost Everyone's Guide to Science: The Universe, Life and Everything	Books	4	28	35	N	N	Book Review No. 32	This is a best-seller by an eminent scientist who doesn't believe the world is goverened by magic or the supernatural.He presents scientific evidence that everything is coherent and fits together. Gribbin starts with the smallest particle and goes to the birth of the universe including the  origin of our species. This is an ambitious, never-tried-before book. It is  breathtaking in scope.Don't bother to read it if you don't have a healthy  curiosity or the patience to put up with  complicated scientific concepts.  And don't worry about not understanding all of it; what you do understand  will stagger you.<br />Interesting ideas: People are the most complex systems  in the known universe. No two are exactly alike. Studies confirm tha  tNinety-eight per cent of the DNA in human beings, gorillas and chimpanzees  is the same...the differences tha tmake us uniquely human amount to a  little over one per cent.  We are one per cent human and roughly 99 per  cent ape.<br />If our planet were the size of a basketball, the thickness of  the breathable atmosphere would be no more than one quarter of a  millimeter, a barely noticeable 6-mile-high smear over the surface of the  ball. The Earth is a ball of rock covered by a thin smear of atmosphere and  ocean.<br />In about ten billion years the Sun will cool into a solid lump.  About 440 billion years ago there was a massive extinction of life on  earth. Stray pieces of cosmic debris still collide with planets and one  impact contributed to the death of dinosaurs about 65 million years  ago.<br />Fine-particle scientists predict the existence of different kinds of  particles from anything we have seen yet. They have not been detected, but  have been given names such as photonios. This class of objects is referred  to as Weakly Interacting Massive Particles or WIMPs because they have mass,  but don't interact very strongly with everyday matter.Astronometers and  Particle Scientists would like to detect these mysterious particlesdirectly and this may happen within the next few years. Models suggest we  are swimming in a sea of WIMPs, possibly a plausible explanation of the  so-called spirit world.<br />This work is a monumental job of setting down  that which, in scientific circles, is called the &quot;Theory of  Everything&quot; (TOE) for all to understand. Gribbin has summed up the  last 400 years of scientific thinking on where we came from, and where we  are going, if that is of interest to you.<br />Jim Grubb grubb@uswest.net	2000-02-24
US	51375616	R1IE9OXM00JWBY	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Well worth your time	This little book is right up there on the New York Times best-seller list. A short read (one hour at most) on how to deal with change in your life.<br />Four mice named Sniff Scurry, Hem and Haw live in a Maze and look for cheese to nourish them to stay happy. The Maze is a metaphorical place  where you look for what you want in life. The mice, it turns out, act like  people and the cheese is a metaphor for whatever it is you want out of  life. <br />In this charming story, the mice are faced with unexpected change  because their cheese disappears. Some of the characters are able to deal  successfully with this change and some are not. One of them (the successful  one) writes about what he learns from this disaster on the walls of the  Maze and thereby hangs the gist of this short, sweet tale. Among the  &quot;writings on the wall&quot; are:<br />&quot;If you do not change. you can  become extinct.&quot; &quot;What would you do if you weren't afraid?&quot;                      &quot;The quicker you let go of old cheese, the sooner  you                            find new cheese.&quot;  &quot;Old beliefs do  not lead you to new cheese.&quot; &quot;Noticing small changes early helps  you adapt to bigger changes that arc to come.&quot;<br />Well worth your time.  Give a copy to your kids or grandkids. Promise (them money if thev read it,  but make them write you a book report to prove they really read it...	2000-02-01
US	51375616	R2MMA04K1CSK9P	0399142789	916454618	Conversations with God: An Uncommon Dialogue, Book 1	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Non-traditional book about religion	Conversations with God has many far-out ideas about who we are. It's a non-traditional book about religion; uncomfortable, yet reassuring. It's breaks new ground on who we are and where we came from. One idea is about  our concept of time. Time exists vertically, says the author, not  horizontally. It is not a left-to-right thing. There is no beginning or  end. Everything just IS! You have always been, are now, and always will be.  There has never been a time when you were not.<br />About \\"organized\\"  religion...\\"in order for organized religion to succeed, it has to make  people believe they need it. \\"So the first task of organized religion is to  make you lose faith in yourself. \\"The second task is to make you see that  it has the answers you do not. \\"And the third task is to make you accept  its answers without question.\\" Organized religion can't have you think  because you're liable to come up with answers different from what has been  contrived so it must make you doubt your ability to think straight.<br />On  education. We are teaching children what to think rather than how to think.  Schools are focused on knowledge, paying little attention to wisdom,  whereas they should be focused on critical thinking, problem-solving and  logic. Teach concepts, not subjects. Build around three core concepts:  Awareness, honesty, responsibility. Suggestions for course subjects.  Understanding power; peaceful conflict resolution, fairness, tolerance,  honesty and responsibility, ethical economics, etc.<br />The Waldorf System.  The teacher moves with the children through all levels of primary and  elementary learning experience. The children have the same teacher rather  than moving from one person to another. This is as important as any facts  the teacher may pass on to the child.<br />On death... it is not an end, but a  beginning; not a horror, but a joy; not a closing down, but an opening up.  The happiest moment of your life will be the moment it ends.<br />Truth and  politics cannot mix because politics is the art of saying only what needs  to be said-and saying it in just the right way-in order to achieve a  desired end. It is the application of practical psychology. In the U.S. we  want government to \\"do it all\\" or we want to kill all laws whereas a  delicate balance must be struck. In providing for people's needs, they must  not be robbed of their dignity, individual creativity, and ingenuity, for  this allows them to notice that they can provide for themselves.<br />The  world's political machinery operates on self-interest...but something will  have to change to make us see someone's else's interests as our own. The  fastest way to see all humankind as your family is to stop separating  yourself.  Eliminating war. (1) Share enough resources with the world's  people so no one will want or need. (2) Create a system for settling  differences that eliminates war. There would be ample financing available  to do this if military budgets were eliminated.<br />When you find peace  within, you also find you can do without. \\"Not needing\\" frees you from fear  and anger. When you have nothing to fear, you have nothing over which to be  angry. Seeking and finding peace within would end wars, eliminate conflict,  prevent injustice and bring world peace.<br />People would never put up with  most of what happens in the world if they knew what was going on. Nothing  makes for appropriate behavior faster than exposure to public scrutiny.  Nothing breeds fairness faster than visibility which is another word for  truth.<br />A hard read but worth the effort.	2000-01-03
US	51375616	R3N13D71HBDKQY	0393046885	458870497	The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory	Books	5	35	38	N	N	The new String Theory...a breathtaking view of our Universe	This young author and physics professor possesses a towering grasp of our universe coupled with a gift for language. He makes an intensely complex subject understandable and exciting to read about. It's too early to tell  if this fine book will make the N. Y. Times best-seller list, but it is  most deserving.<br />Over the last half-century scientists have made great  strides uncovering the mysteries of the universe. The universe has two  foundational pillars: One is Einstein's theory of relativity, which  provides a framework for under-standing the universe. The other is atoms  and subatomic particles like elec-trons and quarks. But the two \\"big\\" and  \\"small\\" theories don't fit together. The new superstring theory (referred  to as \\"the string theory\\") puts these two structures together and comes up  with a plausible explanation of all matter. This new hypothesis has, to  date, withstood extensive testing.<br />Now, physicists have probed deeply  into the structure of matter to show that everything in the universe, big  and small, is some combination of quarks, electrons, or nutrinos. Did this  occur by chance, divine choice, or is there a scientific explanation? We  don't know, but the string theory comes closest yet. <br />It is possibly the  \\"theory of everything\\" (TOE). It follows that if you understand everything  about the ingredients of something, you understand everything. Now, we  understand that if anything like the string theory is correct, our universe  has properties that would have dazzled even Einstein. This new theory  destroys old concepts. For example, it dictates that there is no time or  distance. The feeling of space is in the eye of the beholder; it depends  upon where you are and where somebody or something else is. But the \\"big  bang\\" theory of the universe fits the string theory, which holds that the  universe came to being from compressed energy the size of a grain of sand.  <br />So it appears at last we have a unified theory of matter andforce that  makes up our universe. It derives from minute, oscillating pieces of string  which, by the way, communicate with each other. And there is no time, nor  space. Maybe our universe is merely a frothing bubble on a vast cosmic  ocean aptly named \\"multi-universe.\\" The author modestly concludes though:  \\"As we (scientists) collectively scale the mountains of explanation, each  generation climbs a little higher.\\"<br />This imaginative, interpretive book  is for those with a scientific turn of mind and a good feeling for math and  physics. It offers a breathtaking view of our universe.	2000-01-03
US	51375616	R1JAGLVHO32P1	0345425588	54832233	Sugar Busters!  Cut Sugar to Trim Fat	Books	3	70	79	N	N	Cut your sugar intake to achieve optimal wellness	Authored by three MDs and a CEO of a Fortune 500 company who say that if you cut your sugar intake you will lose weight, lower your cholesterol, achieve optimal wellness, increase your energy and help treat diabetes and  other diseases. Whew! A lot of readers have been buying off on this; the  book has been on the Times best-seller list for 25 weeks. The point.  Refined sugar in any significant quantity is toxic. Why? Not to mention  that it dissolves teeth, sugar causes the pancreas to secrete insulin which  stores fat and makes too much cholesterol. The bottom line: Lay off sugar  Some of the big ideas in the book. Read labels on food you buy and go with  those that have little or no added sugar. It's OK to drink red wine in  moderation. Chew food well (your stomach doesn't have teeth); this has a  lot to do with how you absorb it. Corn, potatoes, processed cereal, white  flour are bad, beans, green veggies, peas and sweet potatoes are good as  are grapefruit, tomatoes, nuts and apricots among others on the list. The  book's early chapters tell perhaps more than you want to know about the  physiological reasons sugar is bad for you. There is a food \\"good &amp;  bad\\" list plus a meal plan to help you change your life.	2000-01-03
US	51375616	R17Y098B4ZSDSQ	0374299846	371526505	The Big Test: The Secret History of the American Meritocracy	Books	3	3	10	N	N	Why we had better take another look at intelligence testing	You need to know what the American Meritocracy is, up front, to understand what we are talking about here. It's the SAT Testing System developed at the end of WWII to sort out college applicants and purportedly, measure  native intelligence, particularly in college scholastic achievement. The  author's book is based on his findings, to wit, that the test has produced  enormous inequities and injustices. His conclusion? Scrap it and find a  better way.<br />The idea of intelligence testing came early in our history.  Thomas Jefferson and John Adams foresaw the development of college students  as a broad, youthful pool of an elite ruling class of bright people who  would \\"run America.\\" It has not turned out that way. The thesis of this  book is that intelligence testing has created conflict and tension over the  issue of race; that we have become a society of old elite. More often than  not, a few control many. The \\"controllers\\" have perpetuated themselves  through the generations via their colleges and universities. The  apportioning of opportunity has not been equal or fair.<br />These are  broad-brush views in the book, of SAT, with nothing of the players. But the  players are what the book is about. I did not find the intrigues, politics,  kniving and infighting among them interesting. The author has done a  splendid job of presenting them, however. Little would be served going over  them. It's in the book. Probably it's useful if you know who a few of the  biggies are, because it helps fill in the big picture. Among them: James  Bryant Conant, president of Harvard, beginning the 1933-34 academic year,  Henry Chauncey, young Harvard assistant dean, 1933-34 academic year,  Reynold B. Johnson, IBM Grading Machine expert, Thomas J. Watson, founder,  IBM, Clark Kerr, president, UCLA, Richard Nixon, U. S. President. Anyway,  that's enough to give you an idea.<br />For the first time, so far as I know,  this book brings into the open an ignored subject of profound national  influence: Intelligence testing. We had better be aware of its influence on  change because it is capable of being used for great good or great harm.	2000-01-03
US	51375616	RILJ35I39NV29	0451191722	226907422	Talking to Heaven: A Medium's Message of Life After Death	Books	3	93	105	N	N	Many interesting and unique ideas about life after death	The jacket on this best-seller reads: \\"...a book that will forever change the way you look at death-and life.\\" Not a believer in the occult or mediums, I must confess Author Van Praagh changed my views. A medium is  described as a sort of middleman able to interpret thoughts, feelings and  sights from spiritual to physical life, according to Van Praagh.<br />Author  Van Praagh presents many interesting, unique ideas about life after death  along with a do-it-yourself program for communicating with the spirit  world. Discussions about this shadowy area of life never seem completely  satisfying because there is no hard evidence those who have gone before  exist in spirit form. The idea that print (and broadcast) dignify any  subject, comes into play here. One cannot help but be reminded th:tt  anybody can publish anything, particularly something we would all like to  believe. On the other hand, what Mr. Van Praagh has to say is intriguingly  plausible  never forgetting he did a stint as a writer for Paramount.<br />Is  there life after death? Yes. We possess a spiritual body identical to our  physical body which, during the transition of death, is released from our  physical body. This spiritual body is disease-free, eternal, and can move  from one person to another through thought. Here on earth, we live in a  three-dimensional world of energy which moves slowly. Spirits, on the other  hand, are made up of molecules traveling at a much higher rate of speed,  therefore freer, less dense and able to move anywhere through thought. A  medium (Mr. Van Praagh) is able to go between the physical and spiritual  worlds, pick up the faster vibrations of spirits, and interpret messages  from them to this wor1d.<br />Several chapters relate three-way conversations  by the author with his client, and the individual spirit contacted. The  stories illustrate various typical problems brought about by the passing of  a loved one ranging from a violent accident, drowning, murder, AIDS, to  suicide and death by capital punish-ment. Particularly interesting are his  thoughts about suicide and capital punishment.<br />Suicide, does not solve  individual problems (they continue to exist in spirit). Capital punishment;  it is wrong to take the life of another. Capital punish-ment continues the  propagation of violence.<br />Loss; we all experience loss of many things in  our fives but must use this experience to make ourselves healthier and to  lead a more full life. This discussion is followed with a listing six steps  one can take to overcome a sense of loss and move forward to a more  satisfying, rewarding existence.<br />The concluding chapter delves into the  area of making contact with the spirit world along with the thoughts and  disciplines necessary to accomplish this feat. The author emphasizes that  it is not a game; it takes enormous discipline, time and patience along  with a sincere, deep desire to develop an ability as a spiritual  go-between. Critical is meditation, described as a focus of consciousness  from one state of being to another, or turning off the outside world to  become more aware of our inside world. in meditation, we utilize cosmic  energies that illuminate and energize the various well-defined spirit  centers of the body.<br />There may be something in what James Van Praagh has  to say.	2000-01-03
US	51375616	R30SXL784SKR25	0679450777	470087128	Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Some natural laws from one of the greatest living scientists	One of the world's greatest living scientists, the author sets forth the premise that a few natural laws form the principles of creation and we need to isolate them. Professor Wilson, pioneer of sociobiology and  biodiversity, has authored two Pulitzer prize-winning books and lectures  throughout the world. He is currently Research Professor and Honorary  Curator of the Harvard Museum of Comparative Zoology.<br />Some of his  observations confirm truisms, to wit: \\"the mind...sees the world only in  pieces. \\"It throws a spotlight on those portions... it must know in order  to live to the next day, and surrenders the rest to darkness.\\" Some  sobering one-liners: There is almost no probability any two human beings  shared identical genes. Life evolved over billions of years. We are a  product of our genes and our culture, not of one or the other. Alcoholism  is infrequently inherited in males, and almost never in females. Over 1200  physical and psychological disorders have now been tied to single genes  from color blindness to single-cell anemia and eventually all will be  curable through biochemicals.<br />On who survives. Those who possess  brainpower with the ability to make wise choices, survive longer and leave  more offspring than those with brainpower that chooses poorly. We are  drowning in information and starving for wisdom, so the world will shortly  be run by people able to put together the right information at the right  time, think about it critically, and make the right choices.<br />The big  story in contemporary evolution is that the only thing about human  evolution that is changing is homogenization through immigration and  interbreeding. The average differences among people in different parts of  the world was not very great to begin with and is narrowing.<br />Defining the  arts. The arts express the human condition through mood and feeling. They  call into play all the senses using the elements of order and disorder. It  is partly through the arts we learn that `high cultures commonly possess a  combination of exceptional knowledge, technical skill, originality,  sensitivity to detail, ambition, boldness, and drive. Artistic creations  are meant to appeal to the beholder without analysis.<br />Educated  predictions about the dire future of the human race. By the year 2025, 40%  of the world will live with chronic water scarcity. Sometime, in the near  future our oceans are going to be fished out. Atmospheric scientists say  that because of carbon dioxide air pollution we are increasing global  warming and this is reducing our ability to grow food. It is also the cause  of clouds and storms. Wilson says flat out that we shall see an  environmental bottleneck in the 21st century which will result in a  collapse of civilization. This has happened to smaller cultures over the  centuries, but the human population is now so great, the effects will be  worldwide. He calls population growth: \\"The monster of the land.\\" The  answer: Shrink population to a level that can be sustained by the Earth's  fragile environment. He suggests the time has come for economists and  business leaders to accept real-world cost accounting which includes the  loss of natural resources.<br />One is awed by what Professor Wilson tells us  about ourselves and all the living things around us. This is a scientific  book and a hard read, but the conclusions are earth-shaking and we should  pay attention to what he is saying about our survival. The signs are  abundant he has it right and the human race will dip out of sight sometime  in the 21st century and are evidently powerless to stop our own extinction.	2000-01-03
US	51375616	R3P3Y2KPJICBYN	0671015206	826470409	The Millionaire Next Door	Books	4	345	363	N	N	Most people have it all wrong on how you become wealthy	Most people have it all wrong about how you become wealthy, according to the author-researchers of The Millionaire Next Door. Their 20-year study of how people become wealthy involved focus groups and personal interviews and  accompanying statistical tables on where they shop, cars they drive, and  the daily work they do. I found the statistical tables of mild interest,  but insights into their views and beliefs were surprising and revealing.  The target group studied have net worths of one to ten-million  dollars.<br />The majority acquired their wealth in one generation and  followed these factors of wealth accumulation: *Live well below your means.  *Spend your time, energy and money efficiently in ways that build wealth.  *Believe that financial independence is more important than social status  *Their parents didn't help. *Their adult children are economically  seW-sufficient. *They know how to pick market opportunities. .They chose  the right occupation.<br />As a group, they all have supreme confidence in  their own ability. If you thought ancestry had much to do with it consider  this: The highest concen-trations of millionaires by ancestry in order of  rank are Russians; Scotts; Hungarians; Latvians; Australians; Egyptians.  Self-employment is a major correlate of wealth.<br />They are frugal and their  spouses even more so. Not only are they planners and budgeters, they don't  shop where you might think; their two favorite stores are J. C. Penny and  Sears. Most answer these questions the right way: -Does your household  operate on an annual budget? -Do you know how much your family spends each  year for food, clothing, shelter? -Do you have a clear, defined set of  daily, weekly, monthly, annual and lifetime goals? -Do you spe'd a lot of  time planning your financial future? -Do you niinnnize your taxable income  and maximize your other income? While nearly all own stocks, they don't  follow the ups and downs of the market. They firmly believe the more  intellect, time and energy you spend hiring a financial adviser, the more  likely you will be to find a successful one. They use CPAS to not only do  taxes, but also to provide investment advice and they usually choose one  with the most millionaire clients. They believe it is easier to earn a lot  of money than it is to accumulate wealth.<br />A couple of charters are  devoted to their relationships with their children. They believe the more  dollars they give to adult children, the fewer dollars these children  accumulate (a statistically proved relationship). Here are the rules they  more or less live by in dealing with their offspring: -Never tell your kids  you are wealthy. -Teach your children discipline and frugality. -Minimize  discussion on what your kids will inherit. -Never give cash or significant  gifts as part of a negotiation. -Stay out of your adult children's' family  matters. -Emphasize their achievements.. .not your success. -Assure them  many things are more valuable than money. Millionaires encourage their  children to become seW-employed professionals such as doctors, attorneys,  engineers, architects, accountants and dentists. They believe only a small  number of professional people fail to make a profit any given year and they  earn more than the average for small businesses. \\"You can lose your  business, but not your intellect,\\" they say. Most own their own business  because they believe self-employment is less risky than working for  another.<br />Well worth reading. You can learn a lot about how to accumulate  wealth.	2000-01-03
US	51375616	R5PQ1FA0GEBB1	039331295X	209004341	Self-Renewal: The Individual and the Innovative Society	Books	5	111	112	N	N	Penetrating book on what makes you tick and how to keep on	A deeply perceptive (short) paperback on the self-renewal of individuals and societies; why some decay and others remain innovative and creative. Now in his 90th year, Mr. Gardner continues to teach at Stanford. In clear, concise terms the author sets down the factors that produce deterioration in people and societies. He maintains they are caused  mostly by failure to deal with change. The factors? He names  five.<br />SELF-DEVELOPMENT. Not just skills, but the whole range of our own  potentialities for sensing, wondering, learning, understanding and  aspiring. Gardner points out that this does not happen until one gets over  the odd notion that education is what goes on in school buildings and  nowhere else.<br />SELF-KNOWLEDGE. By midlife we are accomplished fugitives  from ourselves. Our lives are filled with diversions; our heads stuffed  with knowledge; we are involved with people. Result: we've never taken time  to probe our inner selves. We don't want to know ourselves. We don't want  to depend upon ourselves. We can't stand to live with ourselves. A better  way is to develop a more comfortable view of who you are. It is the true  basis of inner strength.<br />COURAGE TO FAIL. By the time we reach middle  age, we carry in our heads a long list of things we'll never try again  because we tried once and failed. Mature people learn less because they are  willing to risk less. There's no learning without difficulty and fumbling,  but if you want to keep on learning, you must keep risking failure.<br />LOVE.  Develop the ability to have mutually fruitful relations with others. Be  capable of accepting love and giving it; of depending upon others and of  being depended upon. Develop the ability to see life through another's eyes  and reach out to others.<br />MOTIVATION. A self-renewing person is highly  motivated. The author points out that motivation isn't a fuel that gets  injected into your system (motivation speakers won't do it); it's partly  inner energy and partly the result of the social forces in your life.  Gardner makes the point that we live in an over-verbalized civilization.  Words have become more real than the things they signify and we need to  return to the solid earth of direct experience because we are drowning in  meaningless word tonnage.<br />\\"For those who have accepted the reality of  change, the need for endless learning and trying is a way of living, a way  of thinking, a way of being awake and ready. \\"Life isn't a train ride where  you choose your destination, pay your fare and settle back for a nap. \\"It's  a cycle ride over uncertain terrain, with you in the driver's seat,  constantly correcting your balance and determining the direction of  progress. \\"It's dfficult, sometimes profoundly painful.\\"<br />For those who  are able to achieve self-renewal, Gardner believes they will also develop a  more realistic survival view of the world: \\"Sensible people will understand  that there will never be a time when we are not in imminent danger.  Cruelty, violence, brutality will be held in leash only by unresting  effort--if held in leash at all. \\"Sloth, indulgence, smugness, torpor  begotten of ease and flabbiness begotten of security will always lurk in  wait.\\" No society will ever solve the issue of the individual versus the  organization. \\"No society will ever discover how to become civilized  without running the risk of becoming overcivilized.\\"<br />This is a profoundly  thoughtful, penetrating piece on what makes you tick. Well worth your time.	2000-01-03
US	51375616	R12KONW3BEUGPL	0375703373	181150905	Ship of Gold in the Deep Blue Sea	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Fascinating true story of 1857 shipwreck off the Carolinas	Fascinating, well-researched story of the SS Central America, a 300-foot side-wheel steamer that sank in heavy seas in September of 1857 off the Carolina coast carrying 21 tons of gold. It's still hailed as the worst  peacetime sea disaster in American history Author Kindler vividly  reconstructs the harrowing details of the disaster from the eyes of  passengers and crew Then he tells the even more stirring story of how,  after 130 years in 8,000 feet of water, the SS CentralAmerica was salvaged.  Tommy Thompson of the Columbus-America Discovery Group found her and  recovered gold coins, bars, nuggets, along with steamer trunks filled with  historic clothes, newspapers, books and journals sealed under water for 130  years. Life called it: \\"The greatest treasure ever found.\\" The salvage  effort took several years and was completed in 1989. It was a classic  example of the use of scientific ingenuity to penetrate the ocean floor at  8000-foot depths.... a barn-burning story and it's all true.	2000-01-03
US	51375616	R2QLGLHHH6GXM8	0887307396	441586413	Built to Last: Successful Habits of Visionary Companies	Books	5	12	13	N	N	New insights on growth for people and organizations	If you invested in a general market stock fund, or a comparison company, and a visionary company January 1, 1926 and reinvested dividends, a $1 in the general market fund would have grown to $415; not bad. Your $1  investment in the comparison companies would have grown to $955 (twice the  general market). But your investment in the visionary companies would have  grown to $6,356, six times greater than comparison companies and fifteen  times greater than the general market.<br />The \\"visionary\\" companies: 3M,  American Express, Boeing, Citicorp, Ford, GE, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Johnson  &amp; Johnson, Marriott, Merck, Motorola, Nordstrom, Philip Morris, Procter  &amp; Gamble, Sony, Wal-Mart, Walt Disney.<br />Enduring companies grow  because they concentrate on being a great organization, not because of an  original idea for a product or service. A lasting, core ideology is the  driving force behind a visionary company; not culture, strategy, tactics,  operations or policies. Core values are simple, clear, straightforward  beliefs of unchanging, fundamental values such as The Golden Rule, but core  values differ widely. They are the basic reason for existence beyond just  making money. Visionary companies concentrate on building an organization  rather than implementation of a great idea, charis-matic leadership, or  wealth accumulation. The authors call it \\"clock-building\\" rather than  \\"time-telling.\\"<br />Growth favors the persistent but persist in what? They  never give up on the company, but drop losing ideas, adopt winning ideas  and along the way, try many ideas to find winners. But it's the company,  not the idea. Most revealing was the extraordinary fact that visionary  companies can live with contradictory ideas and forces at the same time.  They don't accept an A or B concept, for example, that there must be either  stability or change. They do both at the same time, all the time.<br />This is  a rare, difficult trait. The book aptly quotes F. Scott Fitzgerald:  \\"...first rate intelligence is the ability to hold two opposed ideas... at  the same time.. . and still function.\\"<br />The profit myth. Visionary  companies are more idealogically-drlven and less profit-driven than  comparison companies. Of course they pursue profit, but they do both. More  importantly, their values don't shift with the times, or changing  markets.<br />As the authors reel off the rather obscure names of heads of  visionary companies (and their personality traits), clearly they aren't  charismatic leaders, but perhaps better described as \\"architects.\\" People  have always harbored a deep need to be assured that someone or something  must have it all figured out; God must have made it that way. Not so with  visionary companies. Things are the way they are because the founders  created an evolving, changing process for selecting what works and doesn't  work. And these visionary companies continue to come up with a stream of  successful products and services.<br />Other shattered myths. Playing it safe:  They make bold, risky commitments and make them work most of the time. A  great place to work: You fit and flourish or hate it and leave. Brilliant  strategic planning; Best moves are made by trial and error. Beating  competition: They concentrate on beating themselves. They believe in  home-grown management; promotion from within. The authors conclude that new  ideas will become obsolete faster than ever before, therefore corporate  success must be ideological and provide common bonds of values, beliefs and  aspirations.<br />This is a landmark book. It goes beyond corporate concepts  and provides new insights on growth for individuals, groups or  organizations.	2000-01-03
US	51375616	RFMY76D6S2TK	0345428269	917507963	The Virtues of Aging (Library of Contemporary Thought)	Books	4	70	72	N	N	Wisdom, honesty and good judgement about how to live longer	Our former president has written a tidy little paperback that made the New York Times best-seller list. The title though, makes you wonder: How can there be any virtue in aging? The author thought a lot about \\"Virtue\\" in  the title too. He had a reason for using the word. It went like this:  \\"Older people have accumulated wisdom, and wisdom is the ability to  exercise good judgement about important but uncertain matters in life.\\" He  says: \\"I'm old, but it's good.\\" Tongue-in-cheek, he also points out \\"It's  nicer now that our children have (more nearly) reached our age.\\"<br />Whatever  your politics, you are taken by the honesty, good judgement and inherent  wisdom of our former president. It shines through. Writing on democracy,  philosopher Lyhman Bryson said: \\"The purpose of a democratic society is to  make great persons...a democratic way\\" of doing anything is a way that best  keeps and develops the intrinsic powers of men and women.\\" And so it has  for Mr. Carter. He has a useful message on aging (a process you can't  escape; it happens to all of us if we're lucky)...and, as author Carter  says: \\"Consider the alternative.\\"<br />So when are we old? Each of us is old  when we think we are; when we have an attitude of dependency, restricted  physical and mental activity We are old when we have severely limited our  contacts with others. Surprisingly, this is not particularly related to the  number of years we've lived.<br />As we get older, We should feel that life is  expanding, not contracting. It isn't true that health declines as we grow  older if we make a conscious effort to maintain a program of diet,  exercise,  and control over our own affairs, strong ties with others, and a  purpose in life. Not long ago, the Carter Center sponsored a health  conference attended by 120 worldwide health experts. They concluded that  two-thirds of our physical ailments and premature deaths are caused by our  lifestyle. They can be delayed or prevented with good health habits.<br />Here  is a summary of their advice:<br />-Don't smoke -Maintain recommended body  weight -Exercise regularly -Don't eat foods high in cholesterol, saturated  fat, sugar, salt -Use booze moderately; don't drink and drive -Fasten seat  belts -Remove handguns from home -Have regular medical exams &amp;  bloodpressure tests.<br />Two other crucial factors came out: (1) Have a  purpose in life (2) maintain quality relationships with others. Take on  almost any tasks you find interesting and challenging. Don't be too  cautious. Take a chance. If you wait for perfect conditions you will lead a  diminished life. So sayeth author Carter. A fast read and well worth your  time if you want to hang around for a while.	2000-01-03
US	51375616	RGYT8UVHLAB0V	0684826976	646280776	Undaunted Courage:  Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the American West	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Fresh, new story of Lewis &amp; Clark in you-are-there language	This is a fresh, new story of the Lewis and Clark Expedition which brought about major expansion of U.S. land and population. A thorough researcher, author Stephen Ambrose provides new insights into the character and  motivation of those who conceived the Expedition and those who carried it  out. Undaunted Courage is written in day-by-day \\"you are there\\" language...  you feel the excitement, danger, brutal hardship and triumphs that this  courageous band of thirty experienced during the two-year period of the  Lewis and Clark Expedition, May 1804 to September, 1806.<br />You experience  fully these profound events in our history because writer Ambrose is  particularly skillful at presenting vivid word pictures of our country at  the time Jefferson became president, March 4, 1801. The U. S. Population  was over five-million. Our smaller boundaries ranged from the Atlantic to  the Mississippi, the Great Lakes and the Gulf Most people lived within  fifty miles of water: the interior was a vast, unexplored  wilderness.<br />Nothing, in those days, moved faster than a horse, and as far  as anybody knew, nothing ever would. That's why Jefferson promoted finding  a water route to the Pacific. It took six weeks to move information  overland from the Mississippi River to Washington D.C. Sixty years later,  when Lincoln took office, information moved almost instantly by  telegraph.<br />New research brought to light in this best seller reaffirms  the towering stature of the leading players, Thomas Jefferson, Lewis and  Clark. Throughout the book, one becomes increasingly aware of the  extraordinarily high degree of energy, intelligence, intuitive judgement  and sheer physical prowess of these historical figures, particularly Thomas  Jefferson, who stands out as a brilliant thinker-and-doer in the  development and growth of this country, yet not without his own quixotic,  very human foibles.<br />For anyone with a genuine interest on how America  came to be, this is surely a must-read book.ust-read book.	2000-01-03
US	51375616	R2LYOQXHG234XY	0553375067	559651636	Emotional Intelligence: Why It Can Matter More Than IQ	Books	4	68	82	N	N	Why emotional intelligence wins out over basic intelligence	This ground-breaking book proposes that emotional intelligence is a learned ability that is as much or more important than basic intelligence and should be part of our schooling just as reading, writing and  arithmetic. The author sets out new scientific evidence showing,  step-by-step, how healthy emotions and destructive emotions control our  lives. Feelings often count as much as logic, and we have gone too far,  says Dr. Goleman, emphasizing the purely rational, when emotions are so  powerful.<br />All emotions are an impulse to act; the creation of instant  plans for handling a life situation. Now we know in detail how emotions  prepare the body for differing responses. A human being is made up of two  minds according to Goleman. One thinks, and one feels; two fundamentally  different ways of knowing.<br />The author defines emotion as \\"a feeling and  range of propensities to act.\\" The principal emotions are: Anger: Fury,  outrage, resentment. Sadness. Grief, sorrow, cheerlessness. Fear. Anxiety,  apprehension, terror. Enjoyment. Happiness, joy, delight, amusement. Love:  Trust, kindness, devotion, infatuation. Surprise: Shock, amazement,  astonishment. Disgust: Contempt, scorn, abhorrence. Shame: Guilt,  embarrassment, remorse, humiliation.<br />Various emotions have various  physical effects on the body. Anger, for example, causes blood to flow to  the hands; strong energy for vigorous action. Fear causes blood to flow to  the legs making it easier to run. Happiness is a positive emotion that  provides readiness and enthusiasm. Surprise makes it easier to figure out  what's going on and create a plan of action. Sadness helps adjust to a  significant loss and brings a drop in energy and enthusiasm.<br />When  emotions are out of control, the emotional mind takes over and swamps the  rational mind. Emotions have a mind of their own and can hold views  independent of the rational mind. Goleman names five main domains of  emotional intelligence: (1) Knowing one'semotion (2) Managing emotions (3)  Motivating oneself (4) Recognizing emotions in others (5) Handling  relationships.<br />A most important emotional lesson, of course, is anger  management. As a culture, we have not bothered to make sure children are  taught the essentials of handling anger or resolving conflict. These and  other fundamentals of emotional competence have been left to chance, says  Goleman.<br />Surprisingly, the emotional mind is far quicker than the  rational mind and springs into action without considering consequences that  may prove to be mistaken or misguided. Scientific findings indicate we  often cannot control emotions. What's more, the emotional mind takes its  beliefs to be true, discounting evidence to the contrary. That's why it's  difficult to reason with someone who is emotionally upset.<br />A familiar  husband-wife emotional story: Wives, it seems, are the emotional managers  and as such, are more likely to criticize husbands. Men are more likely to  be stonewallers. Wives try to bring up and resolve disagreements. Husbands,  on the other hand, are reluctant to be drawn into arguments. As a wife sees  her husband withdraw from a discussion. she increases the volume and  intensity of her complaint white he becomes defensive or stonewalls in  return. She becomes contemptful, frustrated and angry; the husband feels  more and more an innocent victim. As husbands stonewall, the wife feels  completely stymied. The author calls this psychological impasse \\"flooding~~  and points out that flooding escalates, often going out of control.<br />There  is ample evidence of growing emotional recklessness in the wortd, the  author points out, and makes a strong case that it is critical to teach  emotional competence to children as part of their education.	2000-01-03
US	51375616	R1GLUS4EJ3SX7J	0553578952	870097700	The Guinness Book of World Records 1998 (Guinness Book of Records, 1998)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Little gem is handy for settling arguments	Not only is this little gem now on the best-seller list, it's also handy to have around to settle arguments - a bargain too. Keep in mind, a new edition comes out every year. In case you're using it to settle an  argument, you'd better know the year you're arguing about.<br />Brainchild of  Sir Hugh Beaver, managing director of Guinness Brewing in 1951, the book is  a worldwide success. Published in 77 different countries, 38 different  languages. The 1994 edition sold over 100 million copies. It's published by  a host of editors and writers who strive mightily for accuracy. You are  challenged to beat a record in the current edition of the book and the back  pages tell you how to go about it. The editors are very upfront in their  advice: \\"We are a very small editorial team, and receive hundreds of  letters every week. \\"Please submit your request at least two months before  your attempt so that we can give your inquiry the attention it deserves.\\"  As for the records themselves.., they cover almost every human activity and  make for fascinating reading anytime, anywhere. Some samples...<br />CASSEROLE  OF ETERNAL LEFTOVERS: The world's largest delicacy is roasted whole camel,  a Bedouin wedding dish with eggs stuffed into the fish, the fish stuffed  into cooked chickens, and the chickens stuffed into a roasted sheep's  carcass and the sheep's carcass stuffed into a whole camel.<br />LARGEST  MULTIPLE-MIRROR TELESCOPE: The MMT (multiple-mirror telescope) at the  Whipple Observatory at Mount Hopkins, Arizona uses six 72-inch mirrors  together, giving a 1ight-grasp equal to a single 176-inch mirror.<br />MOST  BORDER CROSSINGS: The most frequently crossed frontier is the border  between the United States and Mexico, with over 500 million crossings each  year.<br />MOST FREQUENTLY SUNG SONGS: in English are, in order, `Happy  Birthday to You\\" (1893); \\"For He's a Jolly Good Fellow\\" (1781); \\"AuId Lang  Syne\\" (1759).	2000-01-03
US	51375616	R2UTC93W4VQM60	0786863218	99043079	Don't Worry, Make Money: Spiritual & Practical Ways to Create Abundance and More Fun in Your Life	Books	3	18	19	N	N	100 ideas on how to live a more abundant life	Presented are 100 different ideas for living a more abundant life with less worry, which in turn will help you make more money. Sample chapters: Become Less Reactive and More Responsive; Surround Yourself with Experts;  Ask for What You Want; Work on \\"Knowing\\" instead of \\"Believing;\\" Let Go of  Fearful Thoughts; Lighten Up.<br />An inspiring little book you can read on  the run (chapters are short). It's based on the simple premise that people  have an innate capacity for happiness and when happy, we are much more  competent, productive, and creative. It's a kind of roadmap of the various,  often unconscious, distractions that create internal anger, depression and  especially worry. When aware of these negative distractions, we are able to  deal with each one more effectively and our lives are greatly  improved.<br />Carlson, a practicing psychologist and stress consultant, makes  a powerful point that we have two psychological modes most of the time:  Reactive and responsive. The reactive mindset impairs our judgement and  decision -making; we are overly critical and negative. The responsive state  of mind is relaxed; we see the big picture; we are flexible, calm and at  our best. Your level of success is a direct relationship with the amount of  time you spend in the responsive state of mind.<br />A good, fast read that  will pick you up and maybe change you for the better.	2000-01-03
US	51375616	R2NJWSN8TFPWT5	0449910644	998967015	Spontaneous Healing: How to Discover and Enhance Your Body's Natural Ability to Maintain and Heal  Itself	Books	3	101	113	N	N	Using your natural ability to heal and maintain your body	The idea that your body possesses natural ability to heal and maintain itself is usually not within the realm of believability for many. But this Harvard M.D. presents evidence and explains body mechanisms that can  overcome life-threatening illness and pain.<br />A \\"how to\\" book, on the one  hand, Dr. Weil also points out shortcomings of our medical system. He calls  it \\"medical pessimism\\" because the end result is that often nothing more  can be done. This comes about, he contends, because modem medical practice  is based on the view that human beings are an assemblage of structures that  can be neatly programmed. Western medicine, the Chinese, for example,  believe the human organism has defensive spheres such as ~onsils, adenoids  and appendix, which can be stimulated and are components of an immune  system. Modem medicine, he believes, also writes off the importance of the  mind, looking instead for physical causes of changes in health or  illness.<br />A realist, Dr. Weil concedes that life is uncertain and while we  don't have control over life and death, we have the ability to understand  how the human organism can heal itself and this is reason enough for  doctors and patients to be optimistic.<br />\\"My purpose in writing this book,\\"  he states, \\"is to convince more people to rely on our innate potential for  maintaining health and overcoming illness but, he goes on to say, \\"I cannot  easily give you a picture this system (I) because there is a lack of  organized research (2) the human organism is complex and (3) the ability of  the body to repair itself is a complex function.\\"<br />The DNA healing system:  Is always on call and works continuously; it diagnoses damage; removes  damaged structures and replaces them; acts to neutralize injury and make  corrections. The challenge is to discover how to turn the right switches to  activate this process. The author maintains that the final cause of all  cures is the healing system with or without outside treatment. When  treatments work, they do so by activating innate healing mechanisms<br />You  can boost the efficiency of your healing system but this does not  necessarily produce immediate, noticeable change. It is a long-term  investment in the future. These areas seem to be emerging from current  studies of diet and health: Modify diet to reduce calories; eat a limited  diet one day a week; reduce animal fats (replace with fish and soy  protein); increase consumption of polyunsaturated fats found in corn, soy,  sesame, safflower, olives, canola, peanut and avocado oils; eat more fruit,  vegetables and whole grains such as wheat and oat bran.<br />Greatest threats  to everyday health and well-being: Toxic overload from harmful substances  in the environment including chemical fertilizers, toxins in the workplace,  water we drink, air pollution. The author suggests some anti-toxin  formulas: Vitamins C and E, Selenium, Beta Carotene, Ginseng, Garlic,  Ginger, Green Tea, Milk Thistle, Astragalus, to name a few.<br />The seven  strategies of successful patients: (1) Don't take \\"NO\\" for an answer.  Believe there is help to be found somewhere. (2) Search for help. Ask  questions; read books; go to libraries; ask for ideas, visit promising  practitioners. (3) Talk to others who have been healed. (4) Form  partnerships with health professionals who support your search for answers.  (5) Don't hesitate to make radical lifestyle changes. (6) Regard illness as  a stimulus to change (7) Remember that change is more likely to occur in a  climate of self-acceptance than in one of confrontation with the  universe.<br />This popular book suggest ways to optimize your healing system  and paints this upbeat scenario of the level of good health we have a right  to expect. Says Dr. Weil: \\"We pay little aft ention to our health when it  is good. \\"You recover from illness and injuries heal uneventfully \\"Stresses  of ordinary life may be annoying, but they don't derange digestion or blood  pressure. \\"Sleep should be restful, sex enjoyable. \\"Aging of your body  occurs gradually, allowing you to moderate your activity appropriately and  live out a normal life span without discomfort. \\"You would not get heart  disease or cancer in middle age, be crippled by arthritis in later life or   lose your mind to premature senility. \\"This scenario is possible and worth  working toward because the body wants to be healthy,\\" says Dr. Weil.<br />Well  worth reading if you want to live in better health whatever your age.	2000-01-03
US	51375616	R1C0BJLVGD6SX	1558743545	925231961	Chicken Soup for the Soul Cookbook: 101 Stories with Recipes from the Heart	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Inspirational stories from many people	A collection of inspirational stories from many people, collected by two well-known motivational speakers wherein you will find something to make you better than you might have been, as well as make you better able to  cope. The stones are about people caring for each other, parenting,  learning, living your dream, overcoming obstacles and other avenues of  wisdom in life. The stories are in their original form as assembled by the  authors.<br />Much of the material embraces stones about adults, but a goodly  portion is about kids and how important it is to show, over and over, that  others care for them and love them. We see too, the impact of good teachers  on the lives of students in the classroom every day; an important reminder  of the complex ways quality education and quality teachers make a better  world for all of us.<br />One story, \\"All I Ever Really Needed to Know I  Learned in Kindergarten\\" illustrates, I think, the connection between youth  and adulthood. Here are excerpts from author, Robert Fulghum: \\"These are  the things I learned: \\"Share everything. \\"Play fair. \\"Don't hit people.  \\"Put you things back where you found them. \\"Clean up your own mess. \\"Don't  take things that aren't yours. \\"Say you're sorry when you hurt somebody.  \\"Wash your hands before you eat. \\"Warm cookies and cold milk are good for  you. \\"Live a balanced life. \\"Learn some and think some and draw and paint  and sing and dance and play and work every day some.\\" \\"Everything you need  to know is there somewhere.\\"<br />And then from an Unknown Source, there is  the classic reminder about Abraham Lincoln's life and the lesson of  persistence. \\"Born into poverty, Lincoln was faced with defeat throughout  life. \\"He lost eight elections, twice failed in business and suffered a  nervous breakdown. \\"He could have quit many times-but he didn't and because  he didn't quit, he became one of the greatest presidents in the history of  our country. Lincoln was a champion and he never gave up.\\"<br/>From a piece  by Bob Richards, Olympic Athlete: \\"Greatness is all around us. \\"It's easy  to be great because great people will help, you... .the greatest in the  business will come and share their ideas, their methods and their  techniques with everyone else. \\"They don't hold back. \\"Great people will  share.. .(they) will tell you their secrets. \\"It's easy to be great when  you get around great people.\\"<br />And finally, a tongue-in-cheek bit under  the heading of \\"Eclectic Wisdom: This life is a test. It is only a test.  Had it been an actual life you would have received further instructions on  where to go and what to do.\\" (Found on a bulletin board).<br />An interesting  collection of inspiring stories about the human condition which you can  pick up and put down at will. You don't weed to read them all at once in  one sitting and the payoff is that you'll find something to turn you on and  make you better (or at least feel better) than you might have been.	2000-01-03
US	51375616	R1KRVCPNUXWYN	0517707918	508991278	The 9 Steps to Financial Freedom	Books	4	553	571	N	N	How to make yourself financially free	The book sets the premise that you never learn to deal with money successfully until you overcome your fear of money...of not having enough, and fear of taking action with your money. It's about how to make money  work for you so you have more than enough because you learn to devote  energy, time, and understanding, to money. The three ways of getting money  in this world: (1) Work for it (2) inherit it (3) invest the money you save  (the most powerful, respectful way to get money there is). <br />Here are the  9 steps to financial freedom: 1. Step back in time to see how your  feelings about money can be traced to your past. We all have \\"money  messages\\" passed down from generation to generation. 2. Face your money  fears and create new, positive truths. 3. Be honest with yourself. Ouit  using plastic cards for money. They are addictive and destructive as drugs,  giving you a quick fix by satisfying temporary desires. 4. Be  responsible to those you love. Establish life insurance, wills, power of  attorney, estate planning, etc. 5. Be respectful of yourself and your  money. If you do what needs to be done with money, you will attract money  to you. 6. You and your money must keep good company. Credit cards are  never good company. Get out of debt. Respect yourself and your money by  making every penny work for you. 7. Trust yourself more than you trust  others. Find the \\"little voice\\" inside you; listen to what it has to say.  8. Be open to receive all you are meant to receive. When you are in  control of your money and have enough to be generous, money flows to you.  9. Understand the ebb and flow of the money cycle. Money has natural  cycles as it ebbs and flows through your life.<br />If you choose to entrust  your money to someone else, and you really don't know how money works,  unscrupulous people can take advantage of you. Further, you discover the  thrill that comes from wanting to deal with your money instead of just  having to deal with it. Get in touch with your money; delight in spending  it as you did as a child, but enjoy choosing not to spend it too; take  pleasure in putting some away for later.<br />Most of us need to spend our  money differently. Not drastic action like getting by with one car.  Unrealistic budget cuts, like diets, never work. Rather, decide to spend  $25 to $30 less per month from fifteen or twenty of your spending  categories; with each decision you make to spend less, you are gaining  power over your money, and you will find creative ways to reduce your  spending so you hardly notice. Rather than being dictated by a restriction,  your actions are guided by the choices you make. This is the hardest step  to financial freedom; you become honest with yourself about how you really  stand.<br />Spend less by putting your money away before you see it. Pay  yourself. It's not what you make, but what you keep. Time plays an  essential role in building future wealth because the longer you contribute,  the more you'll have and with time, the contributions you have already  made, do more work for you. The thing that makes time so powerful is  compounding.<br />Money flows through our lives like water...plentiful at  times...a trickle other times. These transitions are exciting or scary, but  are all part of the natural cycles of money. There are two important  reactions to these cycles: (1) You must take the long view of your  financial future (2) you must believe that what happens is positive and let  it be. The important thing is to understand the nature of money and take  the right steps to make it work for you. Recognize true wealth. People can  not be measured by their net worth. Money does not make you financially  free; only you can make yourself financially free.	2000-01-03
US	51375616	RFE1XCE6CHHG8	0786881852	358457399	Don't Sweat the Small Stuff . . . and It's All Small Stuff: Simple Ways to Keep the Little Things from Taking Over Your Life (Don't Sweat the Small Stuff Series)	Books	4	104	113	N	N	How to cope with the fiendish pace of the Information Age	A highly-readable little paperback with a different perspective of the generations; your own, those before you, and those soon to follow. The book is enjoying a good run as a best-seller, living proof many among us must be  anxiety-ridden and looking for answers.<br />Say to yourself: \\"Life isn't an  emergency\\" advises Dr. Carlson, and admits this is his essential strategy  on how to keep little things from taking over your life. Then, along with  this, he confronts the reader with the realization (often unrecognized)  that life is made up of \\"little things.\\"<br />Each of the hundred short  chapters contains ideas and true-life examples of how to work around the  little things so life will be more livable and enjoyable minute-by-minute,  hour-by-hour. It would seem that adopting even one of these sometimes  profound, sometimes simplistic concepts of living, you can relieve stress  in your life; more importantly, life will be a lot more fun.<br />Examples:  Live in the present. When you look around, it's easy to see no one has a  guarantee he or she will be here tomorrow; right now is the only time we  have control over. When we focus on the present moment, fear of what might  happen in the future (and most of these fearful events never happen) goes  away so we are more relaxed.<br />Become more patient. Don't interrupt others  or finish their sentences (a sign of impatience that says, \\"I'm waiting for  you to finish so I can talk\\"). The more patient you are, the more you will  accept how it really is, rather than insisting that life should be as you  would like it to be. Patience adds ease and acceptance of life so essential  for inner peace. Allowing the other person to finish speaking is a mark of  patience which improves relationships. Those you are talking with feel more  relaxed because they feel you are listening to what they have to say.  Result; you enjoy conversations more and are more relaxed rather than  rushing through them.<br />\\"One thing at a time.\\" Admonishes Carlson. When you  do too many things at once, it's impossible to concentrate on the present  moment. Result: You cannot fully enjoy the moment because you are less  effective and focused.<br />Here are some chapter titles that illustrate the  broad range of anti-anxiety subject matter covered in the book: \\"Surrender  to the Fact that Life Isn't Fair; \\"Allow Yourself to be Bored; \\"Seek First  to Understand; \\"Become Aware of Your Moods and Don't Allow Yourself to be  Fooled by the Low Ones; \\"Practice Random Acts of Kindness; \\"Choose Being  Kind Over Being Right; \\"Every Day, Tell at Least One Person Something You  Like, Admire or Appreciate About Them; \\"Resist The Urge to Criticize;  \\"Write Down Your Five Most Stubborn Positions and See if You Can Soften  Them; \\"Become a Less Aggressive Driver; \\"Think of What You Have Instead of  What You Want; \\"Think of Your Problems as Potential Teachers; \\"Get  Comfortable Not Knowing; \\"Remember, One Hundred Years from Now, All New  People; \\"Mind Your Own Business; \\"Live This Day as if it Were Your Last. It  Might Be!\\"<br /> \\"Don't Sweat the Small Stuff\\" is a sprightly blend of old  ideas and new ideas on how to how to cope with the fiendish pace of the  Information Age. You won't recognize most of the old ideas though, because  Author Carlson has dressed them up to fit today. In a gentle way, there's  something rewarding here for almost everybody.	2000-01-03
