US	51388751	RNNHK5KKO62Q1	0060668903	945310647	A Harmony of the Gospels	Books	5	13	16	N	N	A needed tool for the Bible Student	I purchased this book while in Bible College back in 1974 and it has been a valuable addition to my personal library ever since.   Like hammers, and saws are basic tools of a carpenter, so too is Robertson's Harmony of the Gospels a tool for the student of the Bible.    Robertson is not the original author of this book; rather, he edited and revised an earlier work by Dr. John Broadus, adding his own notes and analysis.  The only draw back I can see is that Robertson uses the Revised Version of the Bible.  It's not a bad version, but the NIV is pretty much the Bible of choice now.	2005-09-10
US	51388751	R301699WORO1KL	0451527402	437599300	Beowulf (Signet Classics)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Is there a role for a hero in the post-modern world?	I first read Raffel's Beowulf in college and over the next thirty years have read it at least a half a dozen times since then.  The story itself is well known and need not be repeated for this review, but what I would like to comment on is the role of Beowulf as the hero, a concept often scorned upon in postmodern society.   The role of hero presupposes the existence of an enemy to be vanquished.  Since contemporary western thought has pretty much given up on the idea of God, it has also given up on the idea of right and wrong, good and evil; and hence by implication, hero and villain.   <br /> <br />Since there are no absolutes, there can be no hero's.  Who is to say that Grendel  is not an endanger species that needs to be protected?  If mead halls are burned to the ground and warriors eaten alive, perhaps it is because they have encroached upon Grendel's habitat.  Perhaps the real villain is not the dragon, but Beowulf who kills the last of a species.  A real hero would have recognized that dragons too have a right to exist and if mead halls were being destroyed, it should be a time for introspection, rather than retaliation- just maybe, the Danes provoked the dragon? <br />	2005-09-03
US	51388751	R3V7D9Z44GLV9Z	031230935X	702211299	Gettysburg: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	4	0	4	N	N	Not too bad. .  .a pretty good read	Purchasing this book on a whim I thought it was entertaining (but not as good as The Killing Angels) and until I discovered that it was one of those \\"what if\\" history books.  I almost gave up reading it, but am I glad I did not.  It ended up being a very good read.  In fact, I could hardly put it down.  I do not want to give the plot away, but Gingrich and Forstchen give a very good \\"what if\\" scenario if history had taken a different turn that day.<br /><br />What makes this book especially good in the insight the authors give concerning the life  of the everyday solider.  They bring us back through history, to the killing fields of Gettysburg, the horrific wounds the soldiers received and the sheer terror of being a foot solider in that great and terrible war.<br /><br />Is it a great book?  No, not really, but it is a very good book and worth the read.	2005-09-03
US	51388751	R1951T87MC1O41	0452269563	410350403	Andersonville (Plume)	Books	3	25	28	N	N	Images so vivid that they will stay with you forever	I think this must have been one of my father's books, but somehow it found its way into my library where it sat on the self for years before I read it.  My feelings are mixed about it- I am glad I read it, but I don't think I will read it again.  Like previous reviewers, I found the writing style ponderous and the length just a little too long.  It would have been a better book if the author edited a couple hundred pages out.  Nevertheless, I am glad that I read it.<br /><br />The images of the prison camp- the sewage filled creek, the squalor and the filth in which these prisoners lived, the gangs of thugs who preyed on the weakened soldiers and the constant fear of inflection in which these poor people lived has stayed with me twenty years after reading it.  No, it is not great literature, but the author was successful in that he wrote a book that touches the reader with images so vivid that they will stay with him forever.	2005-09-03
US	51388751	R15U31XI70RX97	1878114018	645052501	Self-Confrontation: A Manual for In-Depth Biblical Discipleship	Books	5	12	14	N	N	No better way to quickly mature in the faith	This excellent book was the manual for a nine-month discipleship class we had at our church.  I have to admit I had some trepidation about using this book; I didn't know if I really wanted to know myself that well- Ignorance can be bliss.  Think about it, if I were confronted with sin then I would have to repent of it.  Come on now, I am just be honest. <br /> <br />My fears were put to rest as soon as I got into the book. Yes, you will be confronted with God's Word.  Yes, you will have to repent.  But the growth you experience in your Christian walk will be phenomenal. What makes this book so effective is that it is so repetitive.  It takes you back again and again to God's word.  When we used this book, we looked up every Scripture, highlighted them in our Bibles and then answered question and completed every exercise.  The results were overwhelming.  If you are stuck in your Christian walk, if you seen to be on a treadmill going nowhere in your walk with Christ, this book if for you.  By the way, if you are a new Christian, don't waste years of your life trying to learn God's Word on your own.  Buy this book, spend the next three to six months going through it, and not only will you master the English Bible, you will mature in a few months more than many Christians do in twenty years on their own.  <br />	2005-09-03
US	51388751	R1FRFRC43MZNWU	B0008BR91Y	746089606	With Pershing at the front,: America's soldiers in the trenches, (His The big war series)	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Set your jaw straight. . . and join the fun	Written for schoolboys this insipid book written near the end of the First World War, is the final in a series of seven on the war.  This is no \\"All is Quiet on the Western Front.\\"  The Huns are killed by the thousands as their officers force them into battle, whereas only a few Americans are killed-  dying relatively clean heroic deaths.  There is no mud and squalor, no corpse filled trenches, no terror, no fear.  Only red-blooded American boys who \\"set their jaws straight\\" singing \\"lustily\\" \\"joining the fun\\" as they eagerly march into battle.    Let's see if I got this right . . . we were fighting \\"cowardly, mean, lying, baby killing Huns. .  .the worse race of people that have ever been on this earth. .  .the beasts. . . just plain devils. . . \\" and that's only the half of it. Pure propaganda.   I did learn something.  Those American boys, were told to fight cleanly . . . um.  Also, unlike the German generals who forced their men into battle with suicide charges, the French General Foch \\"valued men more than territory.\\"  Gosh, with Generals like that, I wonder why the French Army mutinied during the war?	2005-09-03
US	51388751	R1CI5X0TC95FUD	0700607455	540329262	The Presidency of Abraham Lincoln (American Presidency Series)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Some things never change	When a good friend died his wife gave me his collection of books on the Civil War.  Over the years, I have ebayed most of them, but some how, I could not bring myself to auction this book off.   During a recent move, as I was packing my library, I toss this book aside to read.  Wow! What a good read. Although written ten years ago, this book is strangely appropriate for our times.   <br /> <br />Lincoln has taken a hit from the politically correct revisionist historians on two accounts: First because of his early stance on resolving the race issue (colonization), and secondly because of the limited reach of the Emancipation Proclamation (freeing only slaves in the states in active rebellion against the Union).  For these reasons, modern revisionist judge Lincoln according to modern liberal standards and find him guilty of racism.  Unfortunately, history is not that simple.  People, at least intelligent people as Lincoln certainly was, have complex and evolving views of the critical issues of their day.  Lincoln certainly did not have the hindsight that today's historians do.  He was a man of his time who struggled with the issues and whose changing views on race made him a great man.  It is to Paludan's credit that he refuses to give simple answers to explain the life and views of a very complex man.  He shows us a complex even  contradictory personality. <br /> <br />Especially pertinent to the current news is Paludan's analysis of Lincoln and the Supreme Court.  Lincoln believed that ultimate authority in the issues before the nation was the political process, not the Supreme Court (i.e., the Dred Scott decision).  Social policy was not the realm of the court, but of the congress. Lincoln saw the court having authority only on parties to the suit and perhaps as a precedent in parallel cases.  But \\"upon vital questions affecting the whole people\\" American citizens could not \\"resign their government into the hands of judges.\\"  The same issue faces us today.  The fundamental question we are facing is the same Lincoln faced: Is the role of the court to adjudicate constitutional issues or to decide social policy?   <br /> <br />Vital to Lincoln's perception of the role of the Supreme Court was his view of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence. He saw the Declaration as the promise and the Constitution as the incomplete fulfillment of that promise.  The inclusion of slavery into the Constitution was a political necessity to form the union (six slave states would not enter the union without it).  Thus Dread Scott was the wrong decision, immoral as it were, even if the constitution included slavery.  Why? Because the promise was given in the Declaration of Independence that all men were created equal.  Hum . . . funny thing, when today's conservatives cite the Declaration of Independence in defense of a theistic basis for our nation, liberals are quick to point out that the Declaration is not a legal document and that the Constitution, as the ultimate authority, does not mention God at all.  Just a thought.  <br /> <br /> <br />Ok, I can't help it.  I have to talk about the anti-war Democrats of Lincoln's day.  Paludan  points out again and again that the Democrats of Lincoln's day kept up a constant litany that the war could not be won, that it would bankrupt the county, and that civil liberties were threatened. The peace activist of that day saw nothing but failure and thought that recognizing that failure made better sense than perpetuating it.  Um. . . sounds familiar doesn't it.  I guess some things never change.  <br /> <br />Well, I guess I said enough.  This was a great book.  I could hardly put it down.  Good thing I did not ebay it.  <br /> <br />	2005-08-11
US	51388751	R2LGICDQ8NHAQ5	1580086152	257566027	What Color Is Your Parachute? 2005: A Practical Manual for Job-Hunters and Career-Changers	Books	4	40	44	N	N	It will give you hope and confidence	I distinctly remember listening to a review of Parachute on the radio while in my car driving and saying to myself, \\"I need to buy this book.\\" But good intentions have a way of not being put into action.  It was years later when faced with a midlife career change and not knowing what I was going to do that my brother reminded me of this book.<br /><br />Simply put, this book will give you hope and confidence.  It will help you see what your strengths are and how to market yourself in a difficult economy.  Let me share with you two ways it helped me.  First, the exercises put to rest any doubts I had to where to pursue my new career.  Second, the section on how to find a job was worth three times the cost of the book.  To my chagrin, I discovered that the way most people look for work (including myself) is just the opposite way most employers hire people.<br /><br />Now, I am beginning a new career. I love my work and look forward to a challenging and rewarding career. If you think that you may be facing a career change sometime in the near future order this book now.  It will give you hope and confidence.	2005-05-21
US	51388751	R3D3DSOF0CZD34	0071411860	607453727	The Career Change Resume	Books	4	41	41	N	N	In invaluable resource for a career change	Well after 30 years in the ministry it was time to change careers.  I was faced with an dilemma    that every change of career pastor faces: How in the world do I market ministry skills in the work place?  Too many of my colleagues have not been very successful transitioning from ministry to business. . . they end up working in mortuaries, rest homes, and YMCA's at less than desirable salaries. After working for a very modest salary for my entire career, I was looking for someway to make a good living. <br /> <br />This book helped me in two ways.  First, it helped me put in the language of business the skills I acquired in ministry.  Second, it gave me valuable help in writing a resume that was appropriate for my new career.  Here is a word of advice:  You may be tempted to skip the first chapter and start thumbing through the book looking for an appropriate resume.  Please do not do this.  Read the introductory material first.   <br /> <br />This book was an invaluable resource for my successful career change and it can help you achieve the same success that I have.  <br />	2005-05-21
US	51388751	R205UK3SA7RBYK	0071406735	883295702	2500 Keywords to Get You Hired	Books	2	9	17	N	N	OK,I guess	I purchased this book just in case I had to post an online resume.  As it turned out, I was hired my a small company which hires the old fashioned way. . . through personal connections.  <br /> <br />Although more and more corporations are using the online format for recieving resumes and use software filtering systems to make the first cut, the fact remains that most jobs are created in businesses with twenty or fewer employees.  And for these jobs,  this book is not necessary.	2005-05-21
US	51388751	R22CRBTROF9241	0830727892	365131193	How to be a Christian Without Being Religious: Discover the Joy of Being Free in Your Faith	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Simply the Best!	I can hardly believe it. My copy of this book is dated from 1976 and has been in continued use since them. Come to think of it, that was the year I entered the ministry and this book has been a constant companion since.  <br /> <br />Fritz Ridenour writes for youth, but this commentary on Romans transcends youth and ought to be read by every new Christian. It is simply the best. The genius of Fidenour is that he has the ability to take a very complicated document (Paul's epistle to the Romans) and explain it completely in simple language.  <br /> <br />This book has had a profound impact on my understanding of Romans. Twenty years and many Bibles later, I still write in Ridenour's insights in the margin of Romans. This is a great book and must reading for every Christian. <br />	2005-02-10
US	51388751	RSHEEVCKVZV7E	0140045295	451478495	Sometimes a Great Notion	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Could this be the Great American Novel?	Could this be the Great American Novel?  I first read it when taking a literature class my senior year at the University of Oregon.  Since it was one of three required books for that class and nearly 600 pages long, it just got a quick once over.  Now, thirty years later, I read it again this time savoring each page as I was drawn into a truly amazing story.  <br />Either you are going to love this novel or hate it.  Lets face it; it is not an easy book to read.  The story shifts forward and backward in time, leaving the reader wondering where in the world he is.  Also the story is told from numerous perspectives, with the first person shifting from one character to another.  For instance in the chapter which describes the pickup ride to the state park, (chapters are neither named nor numbered) the story jumps from third person narrative, to first person with Lee telling the story and then from Lee, to Hank, to Henry and to Joe Ben, shifting from character to character so fast (as many and three times in one paragraph) it leaves the reader wondering just who is doing the talking.  <br />Kesey has an amazing way with words, he captures the rural logging culture of Oregon. As you read it, you can literally feel the dampness and moss begin to grow between your toes from the incessant Oregon rain.  Describing the rain as the returning an old maiden aunt who has come to live with you over the winter, or as the migrating geese that fly overhead the Oregon rain is the backdrop on which the story is told.  Kesey also hit the nail right on the head describing the sociology of a small town.  Hollywood, more often than not, describes small town American in condescending tones of being holier than thou.  How often have we seen in the movies, the ladies moral society running the fallen women out of town?  Kesey rightly observes rather than being judgmental small town America is more tolerant of peoples failings and faults.  Why?  Because everyone knows each other too well.  Small town people have a there-I-go-but-by-the-grace-of-God attitude because they know full well that the sin they condemn in others, could be very well condemned in them.  One more comment. As you read it, be sure to read the chapter on the perfect day that concludes with the foxhunt carefully.  It is descriptive writing at its best.  I will not give the story away, but it is magnificent.  <br />Any complaints?  Yeah a couple.  His portrayal of the church a Pentecostal and Metaphysical Science was absurd.  No such thing exists.  Metaphysical churches tend to be on the cultic side, ie., Christian Science.  Pentecostal churches, on the other hand tend to emphasis holiness and as a result you would not see the pastor drinking with the guys in the local bar.  It is the one aspect of the logging culture of Oregon he got wrong.  One more thing.  Why did Kesey place the novel in a fictional town, on a fictional river while going to extraordinary lengths to document Oregon geography?  I cannot figure that one out. <br />All in all, this is the Great American Novel.  So on a cool fall day, curl up on the couch with a copy of Sometimes a Great Notion, and spend the next few weeks  being transported to the rainy Oregon coast and read a truly great novel.	2004-07-18
US	51388751	R2LJUYC4OEPJH8	0897320263	697036074	Selling Your Home Sweet Home	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Somewhat dated, but remains a valuable resource	If you ever going to think about selling your home- read this book first.   Written by an attorney, it shows the pitfalls to watch out when selling your home that that could cost you thousands of dollars.  As I read this book I realized that in our two home purchases, we were like lambs being led to the slaughter.  We were amateurs caught in a game where we did not know the rules, let alone the pitfalls.  <br />Although the author discourages homeowners from selling their home themselves without the service of a real estate agent, he is very critical of the way that real estate agents conduct their business.  The agent works for the seller who pays the commission, but they often portray themselves as looking after the buyers best interest.  When it comes down to the final analysis, most agents are only looking out for their own interest and commission. <br />Two draw backs to this book.  First, is the age- written in the mid-1980s it does not address current real estate conditions.  Second, it is written by a lawyer and I found myself reading many paragraphs two or three times to understand the point he was making.  But do not let these drawbacks get in your way. It will help you be a more intelligent seller, and best of all, a better negotiator. It is short and can be read in two or three sittings.  Be sure to take notes, it is that helpful.	2004-07-18
US	51388751	RD6P88OKM2MFX	0385015178	23188552	The Gospel According to John I-XII (Anchor Bible Series, Vol. 29)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	It is a truly remarkable book	If you had to by one scholarly Commentary on the gospel of John, this is it.  It is a truly remarkable book.  What makes this commentary so good is that it appeals both to the scholarly and pastoral user.  Let me explain.  Many scholarly commentaries deal almost exclusively with issues of textual and form criticism.  While helpful to the scholar, it just does not preach.  While pastoral commentaries deal with preaching themes, they often lack scholarly insight into the text.  Raymond Brown gives us the best of both.  This is one commentary that stands the test of time.	2004-07-14
US	51388751	R34UG3BJSIN8DP	0385037619	23188552	The Gospel According to John XIII-XXI (Anchor Bible, Vol 29, Part A)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Kudos for Brown.	Kudos for Brown.  This is an outstanding addition to your theological library.  Brown addresses the scholarly issues and at the same time, has superb insight to the text that preaches.  No, it is not the easiest to read and use, but the best seldom are.	2004-07-14
US	51388751	R27PB08IBL3F5K	0671728687	679377355	The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich: A History of Nazi Germany	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A riviting read . . .	On the very eve of the birth of the Third Reich a feverish tension gripped Berlin . . . Wow! what a great first sentence! Having read this book almost thirty years ago, it still remains the best and most complete history of the Third Reich I have read.  Shires purpose is not merely to describe the events that led up to the founding of the Reich and its eventual destruction; but to discover and document the intrigues, treachery, motives and aberrations that precipitated its rise and fall.<br />I will let others review the history and critique Shire on his research, I would like to comment on the beauty of his prose as he describes what must be the most hellish and destructive state that has existed.  Historians have the tendency to be dull, they get so caught up in explaining facts and documenting the movement of armies across strange and foreign landscapes, that the reader tends to get lost in a maze of statistics, foreign names, and seemingly insignificant details.  Shire avoids this common pitfall.  For instance, after quoting from a German generals diary which described Hitlers intentions in occupied Poland, Shire describes the Nazi intentions in vivid prose. . . Nazi terror. . . forerunner to dark and terrible deeds. . . Nazi barbarism reached an incredible depth.  Although Shire, in the introduction of this book made the assertion of strict objectivity, he did not let his objectivity hide the awfulness of Nazi atrocities.<br />Although well written, it is not an easy book to read.  Its sheer length of over 1100 pages may be daunting to the faint of heart; yet, if you are not familiar with the Third Reich and want to have an understanding of the people whom were instrumental in its raise and fall, no other book will give you better oversight and understanding of it than The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich.	2004-07-11
US	51388751	R31RZEK4IBBUHG	085364425X	528611941	The New International Dictionary of New Testament Theology: v. 1	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Simply the best!	This four volume set is an indispensable resource every pastor and serious Bible student.  I purchased my set in 1989 and it sits on a prominent place in my theological library, just behind my desk.  Thoroughly scholarly, yet evangelical, The New International Dictionary of New Testament Theology offers in-depth insight into key New Treatment words.  Best of all, one need not have a working knowledge of either Greek or Hebrew to use this resource; yet, at the same time it offers those who have a working knowledge of the original tongues tremendous insight as well. <br />There is enough in these volumes to irritate just about everyone who holds strict denominational beliefs.  Neither Arminian, or Calvinistic, nor evangelical or charismatic, this dictionary gives the reader the best of evangelical scholarship.  It has been fifteen years since I purchased by set, and I cannot imagine preparing sermons and Bible Studies without it.	2004-07-11
US	51388751	R23DL3REM3M0YB	0316611662	617253446	The Bounty Trilogy	Books	5	14	17	N	N	This is an amazing epic and well worth the read.	This is an amazing epic of 18th mutiny of the H.M.S. Bounty.  Although the tale has been fictionalized as an historical novel, it portrays the conflicting cultures of that time as the forces of racism, imperialism, autonomy and autocracy clash on the high seas.  The trilogy is comprised of three novels: The first is Mutiny on the Bounty which chronicles the abuse of Captain Bligh, the mutiny led by Fletcher Christian narrated by midshipmen Roger Byam.  Men Against the Sea, narrated by ships surgeon Thomas Ledward, picks up the tale at the mutiny and chronicles the amazing feat of Captain Bligh in returning 19 souls to England after being set adrift in a twenty-three foot longboat with only seven or eight inches of freeboard.  The trilogy concludes with the tragic, yet redeeming tale of Pitcairn's Island where the mutineers made their home.<br />On the surface, Captain Bligh is the villain and Fletcher Christian is the hero.  This has been ingrained into our culture to such an extent that any hard-driving taskmaster will not doubt inherit the name Captain Bligh by those under his charge.  Yet, Nordoff and Hall resist the temptation to draw these lines so clearly.  Yes, Captain Bligh was his own worst enemy.  He was so sold out to an autocratic model of leadership that he was incapable of recognizing the autonomy of his men- the needs of his men were subordinate to the success of his mission.  Now, men will often subordinate their needs to the need of the mission, or even give their lives for it, if the mission is a noble one; but supplying breadfruit to feed slaves did not fit that bill.   Yet, once set adrift, Bligh now becomes the hero navigating his overloaded longboat 3600 miles to safety- a deed that must rank as one of the most remarkable feats of seamanship and leadership in history. <br />This is also a story of imperialism and racism- the two are inexorably intertwined.   British imperialism, carrying the white mans burden to the South Seas, lead to the inevitable conflict between the two races.  The sailors, obviously enjoyed the company of the Tahitian woman, even fell in love with them; yet, the idea that the white race was superior was a festering boil just under the surface that exploded when the mutineers made their home on Pitcairn Island.   It is interesting to note who was the more civilized race when the conflict arose on Pitcairns Island, the European men acted like savages, whereas we see a measured dignity among the Tahitian men. <br />What I find interesting about the other reviews written on this book, is the omission to mention what specially brought peace to the Island- it was the rediscovery of the Bible and man's submission to the will of God.  Without transcendent values, each man was out for himself and the result was anarchy and death; but when the survivors submitted their will to God's will, peace and harmony was restored.  This is an amazing epic and well worth the read.	2004-07-09
US	51388751	R10XGMYU6BE5J4	1576736555	890778006	America's Real War	Books	4	15	19	N	N	An outstanding and well-reasoned book	I purchased this book on a whim and I have to admit I did not even read what it was about.  Thinking it was a treatise on the war against terror, imagine my surprise when I learned that Rabbi Lapin was addressing the cultural war that America is engaged in. Consequently, it sat in my computer on MP3 format unlistened to for several months.<br />It is an outstanding and well-reasoned book.  Rabbi Lapin makes his points without belittling his opponents.  His basic thesis is simple: The liberal left is out to de-Christianize the United States by removing any semblance of religion from the public life.  Lapin argues that it is the belief in God and a strong moral sense of right and wrong that made this country great. Imagine my surprise when he argued that America was founded as a Christian nation.  No, one does not have to believe in Christ to be a citizen, but that the traditional moral beliefs as stated in both the Old and New Testaments provide the moral foundation of right and wrong.<br />In this war, conservative Jews, evangelical Christians and conservative Catholics have much more in common that binds them together than differences that separate them.  Rather than fearing conservative evangelicals, conservative Jews ought to see them as allies and friends.  I have long argued with my Jewish friends that their real enemies are not conservative Christians, but liberal secularist.  If there is going to be persecution of American Jews, it will not come from the religious right but liberal left.  For instance, it is the conservative Christians who support Israel, whereas secular leftists have more sympathetic toward Moslem extremist in the name of cultural diversity.<br />His analysis of why Jews are so liberal was both insightful and fascinating.  I have always wondered why American Jews have this propensity for liberalism, especially in light of the lefts sympathetic leanings toward Islamic extremists.  I will take one issue with Rabbi Lapin.  When one speaks of acultural war, the object of war is to kill and defeat your enemy.  When we come to the realm of ideas, I prefer to persuade people to my beliefs than to make war on them.	2004-07-04
US	51388751	R22QAY884NC10N	0306812983	791708144	The 900 Days: The Siege Of Leningrad	Books	5	8	10	N	N	It is a powerful and amazing book	Although I read this book just out of high school over thirty years ago, its images are still fresh on my mind.  This was both a terrifying and fascinating book -terrifying because of the stark brutality of war, the slaughter of innocents and the depravation that the people of Leningrad experienced; and fascinating in how a people managed to survive in such desolation.  <br />The story of the eastern front is largely forgotten in the West.  Recently, our nation celebrated the 60th anniversary of the D-Day invasion, but as terrible a fight as it was; it was a cakewalk when compared to the horrific fighting on the Eastern front.  In the sieges of Leningrad and Stalingrad alone over two million people perished- they were cauldrons of death. Although Stalin urged Roosevelt to commence the D-Day invasion to take the pressure on the eastern front and to hasten the defeat of the Nazis, the plain fact of history is that even without the invasion Hitler would had been defeated by the Soviet juggernaut. From the western perspective, the D-Day invasion served not to defeat Hitler (Stalin would have done that himself) but  to keep all of Western Europe from falling Soviet domination. <br />Now, back to the book.  Yes, Salisbury was a journalist, not an historian and this is both a strength and weakness of the book.  Yes, the plight and the hardship of the German Army is largely ignored, and yes, he misses some of the political ramifications of the battle, but as for telling a story of the survival of the human spirit he is unsurpassed.  Put this book on you're a-list.  It is a powerful and amazing book.	2004-06-24
US	51388751	R278OOCAE85AU3	1556611609	72085696	The Subtle Power of Spiritual Abuse	Books	3	60	84	N	N	Cautious and tentative recommendation	Well written, this book addresses the issue of spiritual abuse in the church.  Yeah, it is worth the read, but I can only give it a tentative recommendation.  The authors take great care in defining what they mean by abuse so that ordinary issues of discipleship and church discipline can be exercised without the abuse epitaph being sounded.  Yes, there are abusive and insensitive spiritual leaders in the church. Yes, there are pastors and church leaders who try to manipulate their congregations through intimidation and shame.  Yes, there are church leaders, churches systems and denominations that are just plain toxic.  Yes, I even learned that some of the children's songs we teach our little ones promote legalism and shame rather than freedom and grace. <br />Yet, with this said, I was very uncomfortable reading this book.  Part of my discomfort was conviction that, on occasion, in the past,  I as a pastor have used legalism and shame to motivate my people;  part of it was shame and embarrassment at how some leaders abuse their congregations, but most of my discomfort comes from what I perceive as the unintended consequence of this book of spreading the victim mentality in another area of our lives.  Let's take a look at chapter three where the authors describe the ten common areas of struggle for those who have been spiritually abused.  As I read this chapter, I could not help but think it described every church that I have attended, ministered in or know of.  For instance, what Christian or church does not have a distorted view of God?  Can anyone really comprehend the infinite God?  Human understanding and human reasoning can never comprehend the infinite God and fallen human nature tends to corrupt what little we do comprehend.  Also, in every congregation you will find people who have problems in the area of personal boundaries, or who may have difficulties with personally accepting personal responsibility, does this mean they were spiritually abused?  Or havethey been abused outside of the church and brought their fragile victim mentality into the church? Or, could this just be a character flaw? Or perhaps, they are just human.   But here is the clincher:  The authors state that you may be spiritually abused if you have a hard time admitting the abuse or cannot remember it (repressed memories).   Let me see if I got this right- If I admit I have been abused, I have been abused.  If I cannot admit I have been abused, I have been abused.  If I have no memory of being abused, I am abused.   Hum. <br />Let me prove a point concerning repressed memories.  If horrid abuse causes the victim to repress his or her memories, then, it would seen to me that victims of the holocaust would as a group be prone to have no memories of their abuse by the Nazis.  Every holocaust survivor I have talked to remembers everything.  Speaking of repressed memories, how about spiritual abuse by those who claim that they are fighting spiritual abuse?  I am acquainted with a so-called Christian counselor who specializes in recovery of repressed memories.  Guess what? Almost every client she has discovers that their parents in satanic rituals abused them. Whoa!  Who would have known in our little town of 2500 had so many secret covens.  Personally, I choose not to a victim, no matter how rude people are to me and no matter how bad people treat me.	2004-06-13
US	51388751	R29Z3ATGE7JGBW	0310951410	243093313	Amplified Bible	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A trustworthy resource for in-depth Bible study.	My memories of the Amplified Bible were not good.  How in the world could anybody read it?  It seemed so wordy.  Well, that was twenty years ago and my outlook has changed.  Every serious Bible student ought to have a copy of this Bible.  The Amplified Bible gives you insight to the nuances of the Greek and Hebrew text that cannot be conveyed by the English language; thus, clarity of meaning is substituted for clarity of prose.  Yet, as a study Bible, it is a fair trade.  For those who do not have a working knowledge of Greek or Hebrew, or for those of us whose language skills are a bit rusty, the Amplified Bible is a trustworthy resource for in-depth Bible study.	2004-06-04
US	51388751	R2WUL8UIFTNDJE	0679428518	972855207	National Audubon Society Field Guide to North American Birds, Western Region	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Do not leave home without it!	We purchased our first Field Guide almost twenty years ago when my eldest son was in the fifth grade and during spring break his class had a contest to see which student could identify the most species.  It just happened that week we packed our family in the car and drove from the deserts of Idaho, through eastern Oregon and the Mahuer National Bird Sanctuary to the Oregon coast.  If my memory serves me right, we identified nearly a hundred species of birds.  This started a twenty-year love affair with our Field Guide to North American Birds.  We were hooked.  So much so, after losing my book, I immediately purchased another one.  To his day, my Field Guide and binoculars are by our dinning room window.  Each spring and summer we try to identify new species to our area.  Hey, birding a great hobby and it does not cost a lot of money.	2004-06-04
US	51388751	R118AYKBYD1UE4	0316955108	612064026	The Caine Mutiny: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	I appreciate it even more on my third read	This is perhaps the third time I have read The Caine Mutiny and now with a little age under my belt, I appreciate it even more.  Of course, the story is about a mutiny aboard the vintage destroyer minesweeper The Caine, during the Second World War.  Most everyone is familar with Humphrey Bogarts outstanding rendition of Captain Queeg in the 1954 movie version of the book.  Although other reviews have focused on the plot and character development (both which I think are excellent), I would like to address two themes which Wouk weaves throughout the book- the use, or should I say misuse, of psychology, and the issue of leadership.  <br />The mutiny, the defense and the acquittal of the Executive Office Mayrk, all revolved around psychological theories of mental illness.   The officers, especially Keefer, see Queegs erratic behavior as symptomatic of psychological illness.  As their dissatisfaction of the Queegs leadership grows, the more they theorize about his mental stability.  Of course, as we see at the end of the book, Queeg did not suffer as much from a psychological problem, as he did from character deficiencies.   Greenwald, the attorney for the defense, is able to turn the words of the Freudian psychologist (an expert witness for the prosecution) back upon him, so the psychologist admits that Queeg must have been mentally ill at the time of the mutiny.  I find it ironic that using that logic, most readers of this review would be found mentally incompetent as well.  What makes this novel successful (aside from good writing) is that Wouk taps into Americas love affair with psychology as the explanation for human behavior.  The building of character takes second place to the building of ones self-esteem and mental health.  It is a formula for disaster for our society today, as it was for the officers and crew of the Caine. <br />This brings us to the second issue- leadership.  It is particularly ironic that Keefer, the real instigator of the mutiny, the junior officer who most lack character, fails when he finally becomes captain of the Caine- he buckles under pressure and prematurely abandons ship after it is attacked leaving our hero, Willie Keith, in charge.  As a result of his heroism, Willie becomes the Caines last captain.  It is only under the weight of leadership that both Keefer and Keith begin to realize how difficult leadership is and the stress that Queeg was under.  They discover that it is easier to complain than to lead, to foment dissension than to encourage, and to second-guess than to take responsibility. <br />Any complaints? Yes one.  The portrayal of the black seamen who served as orderlies reflects that time long past.  Was there not one back sailor on board who spoke and acted like a man?  Of course there was, but too bad Wouk restored to racist stereotypes in his portrayal of these sailors.	2004-05-18
US	51388751	R18VDR2SE03KCS	0140440070	356515104	The Persian Expedition (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A story of leadership, faith and courage	I became aware of this story when reading Will Durants History of Ancient Greece.  Durant described it as one of the greatest military accomplishments in history.  I knew right then, I had to read it.  <br />This is the account of an army of 10,000 Greek mercenaries who were hired by Cyrus the Persian to help him overthrow his brother, the King.  Cyrus, however, was defeated and killed in battle stranding the Greeks in Persia.  To make matters worse, the Greek officers were slain by Persians under a false flag of truce, leaving the army leaderless, surrounded by overwhelming hostile forces and without provision 1500 miles from home. Leaderless, broke and despondent, the army, encouraged by Xenophon (354 B.C.) who was a solider on the expedition,  elected new offices and began to fight its way home. <br />This is a story of leadership, faith and courage.  What is particularly interesting is the dialogues recorded (or recreated) by Xenophon.  Especially telling was the debate among the officers as they were negotiating with the Persians before they were slaughtered.  They were caught between the proverbial rock and hard place.  Could they trust the Persian truce?  Were they capable of defeating such a large army so far from home?  If they choose to retreat, just how could they get this army of 10,000 home?  They choose to negotiate and were betrayed and killed.<br />No group of people remains leaderless for long.  Leaders will arise, for the good or the worst.  Fortunately for the Greeks, good men began to lead, and the long retreat up through Armenia, Kurdistan and to the Black Sea began.   Throughout the march they faced one crisis after another- attacked by hostiles, struggling through the snowy mountains, depraved of food, water and provision.  <br />What is particularly  sad, was the growing anarchy in the army as it came nearer to Greek civilization.  Party factions arose, men began identify with their particular city-state rather than the army, resulting in discouragement and loss of life. <br />This has to rank with one of the greatest military marches in history, perhaps only matched my Mao's long march during the Communist revolution in China.  It is worth the read.	2004-05-14
US	51388751	RIZGULFZ8Z1JI	0606103678	903674976	Joan of Arc (Wishbone Classics)	Books	2	3	78	N	N	I am sorry, but the French just irritate me	Perhaps it is because I purchased this book in an audio format; I found it very difficult to listen to and lost interest.  Yes, this is supposed to be Mark Twains masterpiece, but, at least to this reviewer, it does not even come close the Twains masterpiece Huckleberry Finn.<br />Perhaps it I read this book before September 11th, I would had fared better.  But the French have lost their soul.  Even though in Joan we find a Frenchman (or should I say, a French woman) who has integrity and is willing to fight and die for a righteous cause, all what the French do now is irritate me.	2004-05-11
US	51388751	RAEX26IO3XG58	0060976497	143285820	Ten Stupid Things Women Do to Mess Up Their Lives	Books	5	34	45	N	N	A Guys Perspective	Call me stupid, but this book made sense.  As  a pastor I have come to realize that pastoral counseling is not one of my strengths.  My concept of pastoral counseling is to get a 2 x 4 and smack someone on the side of the head and tells them to get a life- perhaps, that is my this book appealed to me.  Dr. Lauras straightforward approach made perfect sense to me. Perhaps that is my so many woman reviews have panned this book at being cold, insensitive, or uncompassionate.  <br />But after twenty years of pastoral counseling, I still am dumbfounded how some women sabotage their lives.  Case in point. During premarital counseling sessions, I always try to determine whether there is drug or alcohol abuse, especially in second or third marriages where children are involved.  More than once, I have been told that there is no abuse where I have suspected there was only to have the woman back in my office three to six months later crying her eyes out and blowing snot into her hanky and telling me about her husbands drug or alcohol abuse.  What is partially frustrating for me is that invariable these woman knew before their marriage that the problem existed, but believed that love would solve the problem. <br />Ok, so I am another insensitive white male who does not understand woman.  So be it.  But I think that Dr. Laura is right.	2004-05-11
US	51388751	R24A2G8YRMOLQ2	1567310133	834867328	The Life of Greece (The Story of Civilization, Vol. 2)	Books	5	37	38	N	N	A Masterpiece of History and Prose	My set of Durants The Story of Civilization was purchased at a garage sale.  Poor fools, they did not know what they were selling.  Their loss is my gain.  Volume Two, however, was missing, a situation that was remedied when I wandered into a used bookstore and there, on a shelf was Volume Two- The Life of Greece calling my name.  I immediately forked out eight bucks and headed down to the local coffee house and began a fascinating and enjoyable read. <br />Having read through Volume 5, The Age of Faith, this has to be the best volume thus far- I could hardly put it down.  To be sure there are areas that one has to plow through, that is to be expected of a work of this scope; but Durant has filled my world with the genius, history and drama of ancient Greece.<br />What made this book so fascinating is that, over and over again, Durant brought us into the lives of these men.  We are not merely dealing with historical figures, but real people who lived, made love, made war, wrote masterpieces and who could act with courage, fall to cowardice or just make stupid mistakes.  By far my favorite chapter was The Suicide of Greece.  It told how a great civilization could fall.  The story of Alcibiades was absolutely riveting.  Both a brilliant leader and a scoundrel, he pushed Athens towards destruction by his fraternity style pranks that doomed his invasion of Sicily contributing significantly to the downfall of Athens as a power. <br />Consistent with all his volumes, Durant again shows us the cycle of civilization.  He shows us again that the life of thought endangers every civilization that it adores.  He writes: <br />As civilization develops, as customs, institutions, laws, and morals more and more restrict the operation of natural impulses, action gives way to thought, achievement to imagination, directness to subtlety, expression to concealment, cruelty to sympathy, belief to doubt the unity of character common to animal and primitive men passes away; behavior becomes fragmentary and hesitant, conscious and calculating; the willingness to fight subsides into a disposition to infinite argument.  Few nations have been able to reach intellectual refinement and esthetic sensitivity without sacrificing so much in virility and unity that their wealth presents an irresitble temptation to impecunious barbarians.  Around every Rome hover the Gauls; around ever Athens some Macedon.<br />I hope that Durant has not just written our epitaph as a great nation.	2004-05-09
US	51388751	R2DS1AUCC731IZ	089900055X	630397046	New Testament History: A Critical and Exegetical Commentary on the Book of Acts (The Bible study textbook series)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Packed full of good information and essays.	I purchased by copy of ACTS back in 1974 when I was in Bible College. It proved to be a valuable resource in my Bible Studies and sermon preparation.  It is written with a lucid style and gives the reader a good historical background on Acts.  Particularly helpful were the sixteen special studies or essays enfolded with the book.  <br />This book is written by and for those who are a part of the Restoration Movement, that is, members of the Christian Churches/churches of Christ.  Pioneers of the Restoration Movement are liberally quotes and the arguments presented in the essays represent the Restoration viewpoint.  This is both the strength and weakness of this book.  Those from a Restoration background will find this book a powerful resource, while those from a Calvinistic or charismatic background will be disappointed. <br />Here is one critique that I have.  Before you give me a negative vote, ask yourself this question:  Is the reviewer being overtly critical or has he made a valid point that you may not agree with? If I have given you pause to think, give me a positive vote, but if you believe that I am being overly critical or disrespectful of Mr. Reese, give me a negative vote.  Special Study #12  Eldership and Deacons.  Kudos for Mr. Reese. He has avoided using the term OFFICE for elders and deacons; rather, he defines these ministries in terms of function, rather than position.  Many Restoration writers, including Campbell, use the non-biblical word OFFICE, thereby giving the connotation of authority and ruling, rather then service and serving.   But the idea that the appointment of elders within the church as being an election, seems, at least to this reviewer, straining credibility and reading American democratic tradition back into the first century culture.  <br />If you are a part of the Restoration Movement, put this book on your  A-list.  But even if you are not, you may still want to consider purchasing this book.  It is packed full of good information and essays.	2004-05-01
US	51388751	R2L3Q7TP1GEX9T	0310205719	36906356	The Purpose Driven Life	Books	5	8	21	N	N	Good job, Rick, you done good!	As I was reading the publishing page in the front of the book in preparation for this review, I noticed that the hardbound copy is printed on acid free paper.  I know why the publisher went to extra effort and expense in printing this book- it simply is a modern masterpiece of devotional literature that you will keep for a lifetime. <br />My first copy of The Purpose Driven Life, was audio.  Each morning as I walked my dog along the river, I would listen to another chapter.  Almost immediately I realized that the audio book was the wrong format for me.  Rick's insights into scripture are so good that I wanted to read them again and again.  Three weeks later, I bought a hardbound copy. <br />For pastors, this book is a must.  To be sure, it is pretty basic stuff; but Rick's genius is to communicate the basics in a very delightful and insightful way.  As I listened on my MP3 player, I kept trying to make mental notes, saying to myself, That stuff will really preach.  For a pastor, there is a years worth of sermon ideas and outlines you will be able to expound on. <br />Most devotional books I find to be disappointing, so much so, I gave up reading them.  I am sure glad that I gave Rick a chance.  Every Sunday I beg my congregation to purchase this book, telling them that it will give them a foundation to build their Christian life. <br />By the way, I was especially appreciative of Ricks use of multiple translations in his quoting of Scripture.  It gives the reader (or hearer) a fresh perspective on already familiar passages.  Good job, Rick, you done good!	2004-04-22
US	51388751	R38L7DIAGKAAUO	0785263268	102619578	The Total Money Makeover: A Proven Plan for Financial Fitness	Books	5	16	16	N	N	This is truly a life-changing book.	Wow! What a life-changing book.  Dave Ramsey hit the nail right on the head.  Getting out of debt and building wealth requires more than knowledge of what we need to do with our money, it requires agreement between husband and wife, and the determination to change. <br />If you have not purchased this book,  I would suggest you buy it first in the audio form.  My wife and I listened to it while driving the 45 mile trip to Lewiston, Idaho to purchase groceries.  Not only was it good entertainment, but it brought us to agreement for the first time in over thirty years of marriage on how to handle our money.  Yes, even preachers and their wives can argue over money, only that we call it intense fellowship rather than an argument. <br />Although I have immense respect for the late Larry Burkett,  Dave Ramsey is a whole lot easier to listen to.  Dave provides the motivation and the empathy that  Mr. Burkett did not.  I almost laughed until tears came welling out of my eyes as Dave told of his desperate attempts to keep his Jaguar despite going bankrupt.  Dave mantra-If you live like nobody else, you will get to live like nobody else, got me to thinking about our spending decisions. It was sobering.  My wife and I now write a monthly budget and are planning to be completely out of consumer debt within eighteen months.  It will not be easy but we are determined that we are going to achieve the freedom that Christ desires for us.  How in the world, can anybody be truly free in Christ, when they owe money to VISA and GMAC?  <br />Any complaints?  Yeah, I got one.  I have yet to be convinced of his argument that a Debit Card is just as safe as a credit card.  I often listen to consumer advocate Clark Howard on the radio, and he warns his audience almost daily on the dangers of these fake Visa Cards.  Listeners call up and tell nightmare stories of being defrauded by unethical merchants or having their checking accounts drained by thieves and taking weeks, if not months to gettheir money back if they got their money back at all.   I then asked my local banker if they would restore funds in my checking account if I were defrauded with my Debit Card and how many days that would take.  My bankers reply shocked me.  Not only would it take ten days to restore my funds, but if the thief got a hold of my pin number to drain my checking account the bank  would assume no responsibility to restore my funds.  Even if my pin number was locked in a safe at home and the thieves broke into my home, dynamited my safe and stole my pin number.  Why?  Because we are supposed to have that number memorized and not written down.  Sorry Dave, I am going to follow Clarks advice on this one. <br />By the way, I am working intensely with my young families in the church trying to get each of them to do a total money makeover.  They will retire wealthy if they follow through on Daves advice.  This is truly a life-changing book.	2004-04-22
US	51388751	R29P16F3ZAHBYT	068483068X	716836572	Gone With the Wind	Books	5	6	12	N	N	Great book, but I will not be reading it again	Yes, it is a magnificent novel, an American classic. Filled with larger than life characters Gone with the Wind takes the reader to a chapter of American history not readily remembered (Southern Reconstruction) and to institutions we wish we could not remember (slavery, racism and the KKK).  <br />Lets talk about the novel.  It is not a book for the faint of heart- my edition is over 700 pages.  Yet, Margaret Mitchell has the gift to immerse you in a world that has long since passed.  From the comfort of our armchairs it is difficult for us to imagine the sense of lostness the southern gentry must of felt during and after the war.  They simply lost everything.  Yet, there is something about the American character that does not want to give up, a stubbornness best personified by Scarlet O'Hara.  <br />I first read Gone with The Wind in the early 90's, it left an indelible imprint on my mind.  About a year ago as I was persuing my library, it caught my eye again.  I pull it for the self, sat down in my wing back chair and began reading eagerly anticipating being drawn into  Mitchell's south once again.  This time, however, I could not finish the book.  A few hundred pages into it, I gently closed the cover and put it back into my library.  What was it that caused me not complete this book?  It was the blatant racism that seemed to permeate every other page.  <br />Yes, I realize that this book was written by a southerner reflecting a time and culture long since gone.  Yes, racism is an appropriate subject to write about.  Yes, one may write a novel that reflect the racism of the antebellum south- but this is one country preacher who will not read it again.	2004-04-21
US	51388751	RSXJ611TS42QH	096032948X	75294573	Wiring Simplified: Based on the 2002 National Electrical Code	Books	5	13	14	N	N	It took the mystery out of electricity	I was terrified of electricity, so much so I had to have an electrician friend come over to the house to change an outlet.  It was mysterious and it hurt.  Then we moved into a ninety year old home, with old knob and post wiring (which was not too bad) and the most awful retro-wiring I had ever seen.  On the first evening in our new house, we plugged in our coffee pot and dishwasher only to be greeted with a brilliant flash of electricity followed by total darkness.  The circuits were so bad, we could not plug in more than one appliance per circuit.  It was obvious that I was going to have to get over my fear of electricity if we were going to live in that house. <br />An elderly parishioner loaned his copy of Wiring Simplified.  It was from the 1930s, perhaps a first edition, but it taught me how to wire circuits, figure amperage and keep my house from burning down.  Since then, I have purchased an updated editions and have wired three-way switches, installed fixtures and added new circuits.  If this country preacher can do it, so can you.  This book is simply the best, it took the mystery out of electrity  .	2004-04-21
US	51388751	R18DLM5BI79BFK	3438051133	503800316	The Greek New Testament (Greek and English Edition)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A trusted Resource	I purchased my second edition back in 1976 while a seminary student.  Although I have not proved to be a Greek scholar, I have found The Greek New Testament a trusted resource and helpful aid in my studies, especially in the realm of apologetics.  <br />Especially helpful are the textual variants listed on the bottom of the page, and the ratings given to them by the editors.  Whereas a Greek scholar would prefer to make his or her own judgments and to the veracity of the variants, as a country preacher whose Greek skills, though rusty, were never very good in the first place, I find them a helpful aid. <br />In an age where seminaries are increasing dropping the Hebrew and Greek requirements for the study of the ministry, a working knowledge of Hebrew and Greek is still a valuable skill for the preacher of God's Word.  Though I seldom use my Greek New Testament, it still gets pulled of the self every so often to check out controversial passage that I have to comment on.  After almost thirty years, my Greek New Testament still have an honored place on my library shelf.	2004-04-20
US	51388751	RAZGPZ3GLAFGW	0917006321	990549252	The Pulpit Commentary (23 Volume Set)	Books	4	64	67	N	N	The best of 19th century evangelical scholarship	I purchased my Pulpit Commentary in the mid-1980's and even then at $199 for the  23 volume set, I knew it was a steal-  the best money a poor country preacher with a wife and three little ones could spend.  The advantage to this set is its sheer size, taking almost five feet of shelving in my office library. Yes they are old, originally written in the 19th century.  Yes, the homilies are, for the most part, unusable in the postmodern age, but, nevertheless, they remain a valuable resource.  Let's look at the good, the bad and the ugly about these commentaries.<br />The good: The sheer size of these volumes.  I have a complete commentary on the entire Bible.  They represent the best of 19th century evangelical scholarship. <br />The bad: The quality is uneven.  Each commentary has multiple sets of authors contributing articles and homilies.  You will quickly learn which authors transcend time and write with insight applicable to the 21st century.  <br />The ugly: If you try preaching some of these homilies, your congregation will run you out of town on a rail.  For the most part, they are shallow, dated and have little bearing for the postmodern world. <br />Would I recommend purchasing this set?  Only if the price was right.  $800 is just too much for commentaries this old.  But the final test of a commentary is this: Do you still use them twenty years after purchase?  Yeah, I do.  They are a good resource.	2004-04-13
US	51388751	RIK47ZQ8S7DOX	0899664946	916048954	The Scarlet Letter	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hester was a better man than Arthur any day.	Since the 1970s I have probably read this book at least three times. It is a powerful book about sin and redemption, guilt and pardon, and revenged and forgiveness.  I will let other reviewers deal with the great literary themes presented within this novel, but for this review, I want to look at Rev. Arthur Dimmesdale, Hester's lover and the father of Pearl. <br />As an evangelical pastor, the character of Dimmesdale has always intrigued me.  I can understand how godly men fail. I can understand how godly men can fall into sexual sin.  Just because a man is called of God does not mean that he cannot fall for temptation, especially sexual temptation, became sexual temptation is common to all men.  A quick survey of biblical heros makes this point clear.  For instance, David, who is described as a man after God's own heart, certainly did not behave himself sexually.  Aside from his adulterous affair with Bathsheba and the murder of her husband, David also, in addition to taking many wives, took to himself concubines for his sexual pleasure.  One can argue all he wants about the cultural acceptability of such practices, but the fact remains that most Hebrew contemporaries of David did not take concubines, and although the Law of Moses does not directly address the concubine issue, the plan of God clearly states that God desires one man married to one woman for one life time. <br />Back to Rev. Dimmesdale. Ok, the guy made a mistake.  Two lonely young people fell in love and in the passion of the movement conceived a child.  Sin happens.  Even the godliest man can fail.  The problem is not that he failed, but that Dimmesdale proved to be such a wimp about his failing.  He allowed Hester (who was a better man than Dimmesdale) to bear the shame alone while neglecting his responsibility to his daughter Peal.  Lets face it; this guy was a wimp, not a man. Why did he not accept responsibility for his actions and take care of Hester and Pearl?  Instead, he sets on a course ofself-destructive behavior that, in the end, leads to his death and abandonment of any responsibility to those whom he loved. <br />Dimmesdale, get a life.  Be a man. Quit whining and accept responsibility for your behavior- that is what a truly godly man does.  Hester was a better man than Arthur any day.	2004-04-13
US	51388751	R3FO2GT7YYJYM9	0671683063	920213671	The Book of Virtues:  A Treasury of Great Moral Stories	Books	5	12	19	N	N	Could this book help our civilization survive?	This is a book that every parent must buy and read to his children.  William Bennett has done a masterful job in compiling and collating the best moral tales from history and literature to teach our children (and ourselves) how to live virtuous lives.   The underlying supposition is that virtue must be taught and that it is not innate to human nature.  This concept of teaching virtue is increasingly understand attack by the political left and ignored by just about everyone else.  As our society drifts into a morass of moral relativism, The Book of Virtues is a bold stroke against the decay of virtuous living. <br />It is interesting to note that the historian Will Durant repeated makes the observation that the decline of virtue, the innate sense of right and wrong, is the precursor to the decline of civilization.  When the middle class ceases to purse virtue, the pursuit of hedonism and self-serving pleasure becomes paramount.  The result is that instead of seeking the greater good and the common defense a society becomes weak.  Religion, virtue and patriotism become objects of scorn by the so-called intellectuals and artist.  Little do these intellectuals realize that the pursuit of art and philosophy is only possible because religion and of virtue made it possible.  Until there is order in the land (economically, socially, and politically) people have little time or energy for the pursuit of art and philosophy.  Only when a society obtains a level of order and economic prosperity does civilization turns it attention to the arts.  Religion and the pursuit of virtue provide the stability and economic foundation upon which the arts and philosophy are founded.  As civilization thrives, art and philosophy become increasing hostile to religion and virtue as they seek to find freedom from the restraints they impose.  But what these intellectuals do not realize is that they have sown the seeds of their own destruction by doing do.  Without virtue, men will not stand up for what is right, nor will they defend their society.  The recent terrorist attacks in Spain are a case in point.  The Spanish peoples response to terror was surrender.  Nobody wants to fight, nobody wants to stand for virtue.  As a result if current demographics continue within fifty years, most of Europe will be Moslem.  European civilization as we know was mortally wounded after two world wars and will die unless the pursuit if virtue is rediscovered.  <br />All civilizations rise and fall.  Their strength is the pursuit of virtue.  Can American survive the current onslaught of relativism?  Only time will tell.  But as long as we have men like William Bennett who pass on the next generation the virtues that have made us great, I am hopeful we will survive.	2004-04-12
US	51388751	R26J0Z01PDO54J	1579105238	310441616	What the Bible Says About God the Redeemer:	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Good Reference Book	The final volume of Cottrell's trilogy on the nature of God, God the Redeemer has proved to be the most difficult to read. As mention in a previous review of Cottrells works it seems that each succeeding volume in this series gets longer and the print finer. Perhaps, I was just tired, or perhaps a little overwhelmed by trying to read all three of these volumes.  Nevertheless, it is a reference work that would be a valuable addition to any pastor's library.  Reference is the operative word. Whereas his first volume, God the Creator, riveted one's attention and it read, dare I say, as a novel, this third and final volume is just too massive, too detailed to be read in this way.<br />It is a reference work.  If you have a question, or need to look up Cottrells insight on a particular verse, you cannot beat it- it is massive, thorough and analytical.  An easy read, it is not.  This is both the books strength and weakness.  It is its strength in that you would be hard pressed to find such a comprehensive volume on the redemptive nature of God.  It is its weakness in that only the most dedicated reader would attempt to read this book cover to cover.  If it was Cottrells purpose to provide a comprehensive and thorough analysis of the redemptive work of God, he has succeeded brilliantly.  If his purpose was to write a book that would influence and educate the church on a broad base level, he has failed.  The danger writing such a review is that my intellectual abilities and desire for knowledge will be called into question by some of my fellow reviewers.  But really, this is nothing personal against Jack. He has done a good job.  But by far, his best volume in this service was the first.  I wish each succeeding volume were more like it.	2004-04-08
US	51388751	R1F7NVS32M5322	0899000975	78499482	What the Bible says about worship (What the Bible says series)	Books	2	0	6	N	N	Skip this one	I just do not know what to think about this book.  When I first read it in 1984 I found it to confirm my concepts about worship.  Leafing through it, reading the sentences I underlined and the comments I wrote in the margins, I found few areas of disagreement.  But that was twenty years ago.  Converted, educated and ministering within the Christian Churches/churches of Christ this volume only reinforced what I was taught, and confirmed that which I had already experienced.  But that was twenty years ago and a lot has happened since then.  Like most pastors who received their education before mid-1980s, we had very little training in the area of worship. Since then, we have been through the worship wars, and yes, I am a convert to idea of contemporary worship.  <br />Hieronymus, rightly observes the influence of Alexander Campbell on the worship of the Christian Churches/churches of Christ.  What she does not address is the Lockean philosophical presuppositions and the influence of the Age of Reason on Campbells thinking.  Although she rightly states that the purpose of worship should be an overriding awareness of being in the presence of God and that that we should hear a shout of acclamation of Gods majesty and glory in our worship services, such worship among these churches was extraordinary rare, if it existed at all.  Do not misunderstand me. I am not speaking of worship styles, i.e., contemporary vs. traditional or free worship vs. liturgical; rather, I am making the observation that no matter what style of worship was employed showing any emotion, much less shouting, was not and in many Christian Churches/churches of Christ is still not accepted behavior.  The influence of rationalism still prevails. <br />Her suggested order of service, pg. 171, looks like any other Christian Church I have attended, except for the communion is placed at the end of the service.  This is the result of trying to find within Scripture patterns to follow rather than precepts to guide us.  Both Gene Getz, Sharpening the Focus of the Church,  and Arthur Harrington, What the Bible Says About Leadership rightly observe the New Testament does not give us patterns to follow but principles to guide us.  <br />Unless you are a die-hard Christian Church guy or gal, this book would disappoint you. In light of what has happened in the last twenty years concerning worship I would like to see how Lynn would write this book now.	2004-04-08
US	51388751	RFMEQIJVJEEGS	0226039323	222086894	A Greek-English Lexicon of the New Testament and Other Early Christian Literature, Second Edition	Books	5	13	20	N	N	I spent my babys milk money for this!	While attending seminary, like most theological students, I purchased Thayers Greek-English Lexicon.  It was good and easy to use.  But as I advanced in my studies my professors were increasingly critical of Thayer and expected us to use the more scholarly  Arndt/Gingrich.  So as a impoverished theological student with a wife and baby, I purchased Arndt/Gringrich with my babys milk money so I could be more scholarly.<br />I wish I saved my money.  Do not get me wrong.  It is by far the superior lexicon.  Its definitions are massive and the survey of a words etymology is unsurpassed; but realistically, it has more information than this country preacher is looking for.  Like detective Joe Friday of Dragnet fame, all I want is the facts.  <br />Behind me as I write this review is my theological library.  Two lexicons, Arndt/Gringrich and Thayers stand side by side.  Occasionally, when I need a lexicon in my biblical studies, I always turn to Thayer.   So unless you are planning on writing for a theological journal, save your babys milk money and use Thayer.	2004-03-24
US	51388751	R172LDCCV5B77O	0840749457	688387412	Young's Analytical Concordance to the Bible	Books	5	45	48	N	N	Young passes with flying colors.	I purchased my Youngs Concordance while in seminary back in 1976 and it has been in my theological/preaching library ever since.  It is a well-used and trusted tool for both sermon preparation and Bible studies.  If the test of a reference book is how often one uses it twenty-five years after its purchase, Youngs passes with flying colors.  <br />The main strength of this concordance is that it allows those who have no training in the Hebrew and Greek access to these ancient languages. Barely surviving both Hebrew and Greek in seminary, I have found this book to be an invaluable exegetical aid.  Is it perfect?  Of course not.  Can we nitpick and find fault with it? Sure.   But if you are looking for a tool to give you access to these ancient languages and which will give you a better understand of the Scripture, it is a good investment.  Twenty-five years later, you will still be reaching for it.	2004-03-24
US	51388751	R3DFGCV0ASQOFZ	0899000878	301577054	What the Bible Says About God: The Ruler	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Takes issue with Calvinism	Part two of three volume set on the doctrine of God, What the Bible Says About God the Ruleris a must add to your theological library.  While you are at it, buy the whole set.  Thoroughly researched and written in a highly communicable style, these books are invaluable tools in the study of God.    <br />The book starts out with perhaps the best discussion of the providence of God I have read. Conttrell gives the reader a survey of historical and theological alternative to providence that is breathtaking in scope.  Unlike R.C. Sproul, Cottrell is not a Calvinist argues persuasively against the deterministic viewpoint.  Like it or not, Cottrell has a point.  He asks the 64,000 dollar question faced by Christian determinists: Why the sovereign decree of God should have included sin in the first place?  He then takes to task Calvin, Carl Henry, A.A. Hodge, and others in their defense of Calvinism.  Whew! What a book.<br />One thing I have noticed, however,  as I reviewed these books.  These volumes were published in 1983, 1984 and 1987.  Each succeeding book is longer and the print finer.  Once Cottrell got on a roll, it was hard to stop him.  Yet, in the end, these volumes are brilliant and a thoughtful addition to any library.  By the way, if you are Calvinistic in your theology, these volumes will intellectually challenging to you.  They really are worth the read	2004-03-24
US	51388751	R27RBEOIERO158	0310202809	200855085	The Analytical Greek Lexicon Revised: 1978 Edition	Books	5	12	12	N	N	I still use it thirty years after purchase	OK, I admit it.  I was not the best Greek Student in Bible College and Seminary.  In fact, I barely squeaked by.  Lets see, was that a nominative, singular, masculine, participle, present middle? or a nominative , plural, masculine, participle, present middle?  I do not have the foggiest idea.  All those years of learning wasted!  <br />Well, not really.  The test of a technical book is whether or not you still use it thirty years after your bought it.  Too many of my Greek reference books gather dust in my library shelf- other than making you look smart, they do not serve much of a purpose.  But Moultons Analytical Greek Lexicon is one reference book I still occasionally use.  <br />So if your Greek skills are rusty, or if they were not very good in the first place, this book is for you. By the way, if you do not have a working knowledge of Greek, save you money.  Youngs Analytical Lexicon would serve you much better.	2004-03-22
US	51388751	RFP1DF57DW66V	0529072351	333020658	Strong's Exhaustive Concordance of the Bible	Books	5	67	68	N	N	You cannot beat the original	Although it has been twenty years since I have used my KVJ Bible, Strongs is still the best.  It has been my number one Bible study tool for almost thirty years of ministry.  I do not know what I would do without it.  Over the years, I have tried to use contemporary concordances but have found them wanting.  Nothing is as exhaustive of a resource as Strongs. <br />For students who lack training in the original languages, the numbering system and Greek and Hebrew lexicons in the back or invaluable aids to Bible study.  It gives the student  non-technical access to the original languages.  And for the most part, it does a pretty good job. <br />Any weaknesses? Only a few.  Occasionally I find a word that Strong overlooked, but they are few and far between. Considering that this massive research was done without the aid of a computer, this is really an amazing feat.  I have tried them all and you cannot beat the original.	2004-03-22
US	51388751	R38PO9SQMOSWJ4	0870713833	84468682	Wildmen, Wobblies & Whistle Punks: Stewart Holbrook's Lowbrow Northwest (Northwest Reprints)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Pull on your cartharts, cork boots and flannel shirt	I found this book in my youth ministers office after he moved out.  Evidently, it was a gift and obviously it was never read.  Ready to give it the heave-ho into the trashcan, I paused and looked at it again.  Am I glad it did- it is a delightful book.<br />It is a collection of short stories about the history of the Pacific Northwest up to the early twentieth century.  A third generation Oregonian, thought I knew Northwest history, but this book filled me in a side of history never taught in school.  For instance, Holbrooks tells us of outlaw Jim Turnow who he describes as the most crafty and dangerous man ever to roam the timbered reaches of the Pacific Northwest- a cold blooded killer who had a reign of terror in Grays Harbor.  Compare this killer to the story of Miss Fern Hobbs, a twenty-five year old, 104-pound secretary to Governor West, who single handily disarmed and brought peace to lawless mining town of Copperfield Oregon.  By far, my favorite story is about The Death and Times of Joshua the Prophet.  A charismatic leader who lead astray the women of Corvallis Oregon, the ending of this story is both surprising and tragic.<br />Holbrook takes us to another time and to another culture.  His prose is beautiful; it is a work of art. So put on your cartharts and cork boots and flannel shirt and tin hat, this is a great read. Even if you are not from the Pacific Northwest, you will be captivated by these stories.  Buy this book and place it in your guest room.  Your guests will thank you for a great read.	2004-03-22
US	51388751	R3D0AHB8V05H6J	1565632095	418468040	Thayer's Greek-English Lexicon of the New Testament: Coded With the Numbering System from Stron's Exhausive Concordance of the Bible	Books	5	23	28	N	N	Thayer is a trusted friend	Although I have both Arndts and Thayers lexicons, I find myself reaching again and again for Thayers.  After almost thirty years of ministry and Bible study, my well-worn copy of Thayers Lexicon is a trusted friend.  It is simple and easy to use.  The definitions, unlike Arndts, are briefer and to the point, dealing almost exclusively with Biblical definitions.  More importantly, it can be trusted to give you accurate definitions without falling prey to the influence of modern cults.  <br />Unfortunately, in the attempt to be politically correct and to avoid being labled intolerant, Biblical scholars are under tremendous pressure to bow to non-classical definitions of Greek words to reflect, or at least include, cultic definitions.  Of course, a working knowledge of Greek is needed to use this book.	2004-03-22
US	51388751	R2PABPAY46LRWH	1578566525	187356661	One Holy Fire: Let the Spirit Ignite Your Soul	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Control Freaks need to read this book	I have to admit in over twenty-nine years of ministry, I have not read a Nicky Cruz book until now.  Sure, back in the early 70s I saw the Cross and the Switch Blade, but not being a Christian at the time I was not too impressed.  So when my youth minister laid this book on my desk, it sat there for almost two weeks until an overwhelming sense of guilt and obligation make me pick it up and begin to read. <br />This is a wonderful book. As I read it, I could sense the integrity of Nicky Cruz.  How refreshingly honest it is to read when Nicky tells us that he has not written a book in the past eight years because he had nothing to say.  As an avid reader of Christian books, it become readily apparent  that too many authors repackage sermons and stoop to write drivel just to publish another book to receive royalty checks.  As soon as I read this confession, I was hooked. On the integrity issue, we see how Nicky had to come to grips with the cult of celebrity and his sense of being used to attract crowds so Christian entertainers could earn more money.  I was shocked to see how his publisher failed to pay him any significant royalties on his book Run Baby Run, an international bestseller.  I was awed by the grace with which Nicky accepted his plight and gave God the glory for it. <br />Enough about the author lets look at the book.  Cruz calls the church to stop doing church and to be the church- to abandon its fear of men and to follow without hesitation the leading of the Holy Spirit.  It is, as the poet said, a road less traveled.  Interlaced with personal stories, Cruz argues persuasively for a life of faith and trust in the sovereign moves of the Holy Spirit- that as Christians we could turn the world upside down if we would just get out of the way and let God be God.  <br />For us control freaks this is a word we need to hear.  The Holy Spirits fire is something we cannot calculate or control.   It the truth be told, too many us prefer predictability and securityto the guidance of Gods Spirit.  The results are predictable- stagnating or declining churches where the power of God is absent.  We cannot have both- We must surrender the leading and power of the Holy Spirit and see lives transformed, or we can try to control the sovereign God and get only the results that we, ourselves, are capable of getting.  I choose to follow God.	2004-03-09
US	51388751	RUPTQGSDBUNI8	0066211735	20998921	Over the Edge of the World: Magellan's Terrifying Circumnavigation of the Globe	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Its a gripper and well worth the read	If you are looking for an exceptional read, a book that will keep you spellbound- this book so engrossing that that you ignore your family and friends to read it.  Over The Edge of the World is an account of Magellans voyage of discovery of finding a water route to the Spice Islands in Indonesia, by sailing west around the Americans.  It is a tale of courage, cowardice, mutiny, betrayal and the geo-political struggle between Portugal and Spain for the control of the lucrative spice trade. Bergreen is able to transcend time and take the reader into the world-view of these medieval sailors.  By doing so, the reader is able to really appreciate the scope and daring of Magellans accomplishment.  They were literally sailing over the edge of their known world.  <br />This is a study of leadership.  Not only did Magellian have to navigate the tricky political shoals of the funding and outfitting of the expedition, but he had to lead the disparate captains of the five ship armada.   At one time on the South American coast, three of the captains under his command had mutinied against his leadership.  When all seemed lost, he was able to gain control of the mutiny, punish the conspirators and save his expedition.   It is also a story of flawed leadership.  Great leaders often have great flaws.  Upon reaching the Philippians, Magellian began to lose sight of the goal of his mission- to secure Spains control over the spice trade and to return with a fortune of spices.  He got involved in the political disputes of the native populations and the mass conversions of native populations to Catholicism which lead to inevitable conflict resulting in his death.  <br />It is interesting to note that upon reaching the Philippians, the fleet was relatively intact- losing only two ships, one which was wreaked, the other had deserted the expedition and returned to Spain; yet, the remaining ships were in good shape- their crews had regain their health and they were on the verge of success.Magellians death, however, had catastrophic effects on the expedition.  A series of successive captain-generals did not have the leadership to hold the fleet together.  One disastrous turn of events after another almost doomed the fleet as it stood on the brink of success.  In the end, only one ship returned, its decimated crew of eighteen who were near death. <BR>Its a gripper and well worth the read.	2004-03-01
US	51388751	R37CPP9PH2DYMW	0684803356	896923	For Whom the Bell Tolls	Books	5	3	5	N	N	You cannot beat this!	Having read two Hemmingway novels, I was not impressed.  Frankly, I was surprised that I did not enjoy them.  After growing up and hearing about the great Hemmingway, the man's man, I found his characters weak and whinny.  Ready to give up, I gave him one more try and I am glad he did. This is a magnificent novel. <br />Set in the Spanish Civil War during the 1930s it tells the story of Robert Jordan, an American volunteer fighting against Franco and his fascist allies. This is first-rate story telling, it grabs the reader from the offset and pulls him into the story.  Unlike other Hemmingway novels (i.e., The Son Also Rises), these are heroic characters that we deeply care about.  <br />The imagery is magnificent.  I can still see in my minds eye, the retreating Republicans, the panicked soldiers, the horses out of control and the cartridge casings spilled in the road way.  If you are unfamiliar with Hemmingway, read this book first.  All the others will pale in comparison.	2004-02-22
US	51388751	RL2LQVZ0DXLO9	0781452597	114986459	Searching Issues	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Really packs power for the punch	I was first introduced to Nicky Gumbel when we started an Alpha Group at our church.  Nicky is the host of the series and is responsible for the international success of Alpha.  Raised as an atheist and educated as an attorney, Nicky accepted Christ and with his lawyers wit, persuasively makes the case for Christ.  <br />This book addresses seven common objections to the Christian faith: Why does God allow suffering?  Is there anything wrong with sex before marriage?  What about other religions? How does the New Age Movement relate to Christianity?  What is the Christian attitude toward homosexuality? Is there a conflict between science and Christianity? Is the Trinity unbiblical, unbelievable and irrelevant?<br />How does he do? He does a pretty good job.  One would be hard pressed to find a more concise, well-written book dealing with these issues.  There is gentleness in his argument that is often lacking in Christian apologetics- you do not get the feeling you have just been hit over the head with a 2x4 as you read.  Rather, he acknowledges difficulties in the Christian faith, and makes reasonable response to them without denigrated those who may hold to contrary beliefs.<br />Every pastor, well for that matter, every Christian should have several copies of this little book.  At a mere 130 pages, it really packs power for the punch.	2004-02-21
US	51388751	R2WODCFO4YUSS5	0805005021	555171378	The Poetry of Robert Frost: The Collected Poems, Complete and Unabridged	Books	5	58	63	N	N	Poetry for the common man	What can I say? Robert Frost is the quintessential American poet.  Quite frankly, I never have really been drawn to poetry, either it is overly sentimental, too dramatic, or tries to hard to make a statement.  Frost avoids all of these pitfalls, he writes poetry for the common man.  <br />I have to admit, I prefer the earlier works.  Beautiful word pictures of an abandoned wood pile in the woods, a dirty patch of snow (or is it a piece of newspaper), and of course, a horse stopping by the woods on a snowy evening.  His latter poems lack the beautiful simplicity of his earlier works, but nevertheless, they are still works of the master. <br />Over the years, this book has been a constant companion.  Sitting in my wingback chair, I have enjoyed reading these poems again and again.  As I prepared for this review I was struck how many of these poems dealt with death: The Death of the Hired Man, After Apple Picking, Stopping by the Woods on a Snowy Evening, A Late Walk among them.  Others are fanciful such as The Kitchen Chimney.<br />If you are considering taking a dive into poetry, start here.  There is no better American poet than Robert Frost.	2004-02-20
US	51388751	R25AGEHPQIZ4HG	0340561270	47785972	Power Evangelism (Hodder Christian Paperbacks)	Books	5	59	60	N	N	Should be required reading in every seminary	Wow! What a book.  Love Wimber or hate him, you got to read this book.  It is a life-changing book written with a scholars insight into the philosophical and biblical underpinnings of our faith. There are four premises that Wimber argues: First the Kingdom of God and the Kingdom of Satan are in conflict and Christians  have been drafted into Christs army to do battle against Satan.  The church does not exist to minister to the saints, nor does it exist to provides programs, it exists to set the captives free.  Every Christian is a solider.  Second, evangelism is meant to go forward in the power of the Holy Spirit.  Wimber argues that in the West, we have intellectualize the gospel to such an extent that we tend to rely solely on reason to persuade people to come to Christ.   The Bible, however, tells another story.  We are to go out into the world with the power of the Holy Spirit.  Third, our worldviews affect how we understand Scripture, including passages about signs and wonders- most evangelicals tend relegate to New Testament days anything that cannot be arrived at empirically  or proved by reason. <br />If you are a fan of R.C. Sproul, you will appreciate Wimbers analysis of the Western World view.  He argues that most westerners are incapable of attaching cultural significance to spiritual ideas and events.  It is not that they are hostile to spiritual things, but it is as if they have a filter that removes religion form the public consciousness.  They just cannot see how religion can have an impact on economics or politics.  Wimber calls this the excluded middle.  Because of the secular western worldview, even most Christians have difficulty believing in the ability of God to intervene in the physical universe.  Case in point- Healing.  Most evangelical Christians will acknowledge that God can heal disease, but in their heart of hearts they find it difficult if not impossible to accept either spiritual causation or healing of diseases. <br />Wimber also points out how our Western World view affects Christian discipleship.  We have abandoned the apprenticeship model used by Jesus for the classroom model of modern education.  Evangelical discipleship concentrates on what one knows..  We are taught church doctrine (the authority of Scripture, the deity of Christ, etc.) and very little time is spent molding a life.  The New Testament model of discipleship emphasized who one is, rather than what one knows.  It focused on building a life, rather than gaining knowledge.  <br />I would make this required reading in every seminary and Bible College.  It is that good.  You may not agree with everything Wimber taught, but if you do not read this book, you will be missing truth that will transform your life.	2004-02-20
US	51388751	R1JLJSJNSNAD67	1579105254	29721528	What the Bible Says about God the Creator (The Doctrine of God, Vol. 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Jack, you did good	Whew! Boy am I glad I bought this book when it first was published.  I think I paid only six bucks for it and now, can you believe it! they want forty-three bucks for this book!  Is it worth the price? I have read a lot of theologies and I have yet to find one written so comprehensively and so clearly as this one.  .  When I first read this book, I could hardly put it down, it is that good.  <br />If you like reading R.C Sproul, you will enjoy Conttrell.  Although not as well known as R.C. both authors are masters in communicating complex ideas simply.  The main difference between the two authors is that Conttrell is not a Calvinist.  But more about that in another review.	2004-02-20
US	51388751	R32RT3SGRORUZV	0899002501	367856398	What the Bible Says About Leadership (What the Bible Says Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An outstanding book on biblical leadership	This book is a part of the What the Bible Says series published by College Press for the Christian Churches/churches of Christ.  A Christian Church/church of Christ pastor or educator writes each of the books;  thus, they express the Restoration Viewpoint of those churches.   <br />Harringtons book surprised me. It is one of the best of the series.  Although he is adheres strongly to principle of restoration, he is one of the few that see it as the Restoration Movement and not the Restoration Monument. He recognizes the influence of culture and human tradition, not only on the contemporary church, but also upon the founders of the Movement, Thomas and Alexander Campbell. <br />Harrington abandons the Restoration mantra of patternism, that is, the New Testament contains patterns meant to be copied, rather, he says that it contain principles to be followed.  The church is not a static structure but a dynamic organism requiring flexibility, change and adaptation in order to successfully exist in each culture and historical setting it encounters.<br />The $64,0000 dollar question for the Christian Churches/churches of Christ is: Who leads? Are the elders the primary leaders or the pastor?  His chapter \\"An Effective Eldership\\" is must reading for every elder in the Restoration Movement.  He takes to task the viewpoint that eldership is an office (it is not, it is a responsibility) and that it give power (elders are to be servants).  He concludes that: The New Testament never gives elders an office, grants them any authority  or places them over a pastor.  Rather than seeing the pastor as an employee of the board, or as the dictator of the church, he sees the pastor working with the eldership as the leader and visionary of that team.  Folks, this review has only covered the first third of the book.  It is an outstanding analysis of biblical leadership, the history of the Christian Churches/churches of Christ and what they must do to be effective witness of Christ.	2004-02-19
US	51388751	R3S9THGLRR8HF7	0849917603	733443951	Next Door Savior: Near Enough to Touch, Strong Enough to Trust	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Best Savored Slowly	Ok, I repent.  I have never read a Max Lucado book before.  Just about everyone I know has, but I found excuse after excuse to avoid reading them.  In do not know why.  Maybe I figured that I had more important, or more entertaining reading to do.  But the truth be told, I have never been a big fan of devotional books. But then I received this book as a birthday present from two dear friends in my church and what a blessing it has been.  <br />Lucado is a master of the English language.  You will not find more beautiful prose written anywhere.  It is simply beautiful.  Lucado takes a look at the life of Christ as if Christ is your neighbor next door.  Thus, the book has a contemporary feeling.  We are not reading about something that happened in ancient times, but we are learning how the living Christ is working in the world around us. Not only is this a well-written book, it is an insightful book as well. The author has a way of looking at well know verses in a fresh new way.  And yes, he even gave me insight to Scripture that I had overlooked.  Written in short chapters, it lends itself to being read devotionally- one chapter per day.  You cannot rush Lacado.  It is not a quick read.  It is too insightful, to beautiful to speed-read.  This is one good book.	2004-02-14
US	51388751	R8CL0HY5PTT41	0671012002	572080433	004: The Age of Faith (The Story of Civilization, Volume 4)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	You are reading the best!	I'm not kidding, it took me almost a year read this book.  It is at once, both intriguing and, how can I put this gently, boring.  Before you zap me with a negative rating, let me explain.  What Durant is attempting to do in writing the story of civilization is incredible.  I just do not know of anyone who has come close to accomplishing what Durant (and his wife, Ariel) have done.  But when one attempts to cover just a vast subject, it is difficult to communicate with clarity the sub-total of human achievement.  <br />For instance, his discussion of the rise of Islam was both interesting and difficult to read.  Intriguing because we see that the conflict between Islam and the Christian west has antecedents that go back over a thousand years.  I discovered that it was nip and tuck whether or not the West was going to be able to defend Europe from Moslem conquest.  The current tension between radical Islam and the West is only the latest chapter in a long and bloody struggle; but our inability to grasp Arabic names, geography and history, makes this reading difficult.  Another area of difficulty was his discussion on medieval architecture.  Just how does one communicate form in words that does the form justice?  Durant gets and A for effort, but, once again, I had to plow my way through sections like these.  <br />Is it worth the read?  You bet.  What we see here is the drama of human achievement.  From the death and destruction that followed the fall of the Imperial Rome to the civilizing of a continent, Durant shows us the triumph of the human spirit.  Durant also shows us the legacy of Roman law, language and civilization on the West.  Rather than being a sharp demarcation between ancient Rome and the middle ages, we see the survival of Roman culture, law and institutions as they were morphed by medieval culture.  Oh, by the way, the prose is magnificant.  I found myself underlying sentence after sentence and reading them to my wife,friends or anybody else who would listen. <br />So after almost a year and 1100 pages, I finally completed the book. Lets see, volume five is next, The Renaissance.  Another 700 pages.  Um. I think I'll take a break and read some light fiction first.	2004-02-09
US	51388751	R3HOU0TVLSHLDJ	0801859530	641231233	Backfire: A History of How American Culture Led Us into Vietnam and Made Us Fight the Way We Did	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Hard book to put down	This is a remarkable book that I found very hard to put down.   If you are interested in discovering why we went to war, and how we lost it, Backfire if for you.  The author avoids the usual mantra of both the left and the right and gives us what may be the most comprehensive analysis of this war written to date.   Although I will take issue with some of the authors assumptions, this book should be must reading for the politicians and military who wage war, and for parents who send their children to fight wars.  <br />It is difficult to find fault with the author's contentions that we fought the wrong war.  Our enemy fought a political and psychological war, a war against American culture;  whereas we fought a conventional war and were trapped by our own cultural assumptions of American invincibility.  It is the author premise that American foreign policy was, and is, driven by our cultural myth of America as the City on a Hill.  Baritz observes that as Americans we see ourselves as the new Israel, God's chosen people.  The author contends that because of this myth  the American people see themselves as a moral example to the world, Baritz wrote:  It means that we are a Chosen People, each of whom, because of Gods favor and presence, can smite one hundred of our heathen enemies hip and thigh. . . .  We believe that the people of the world really want to be like us, regardless of what they or their political leaders say.  So Baritz takes the Ugly American approach to our foreign policy. <br />In a sense, he is right.  Our belief in our own invincibility, and that the Vietnamese people wanted to be like us and welcome us drove the war.  It was inconceivable to us that they would not share our values, applaud our intentions or embrace our presence. It led us to trust in our guns and to our failure to state our national objectives for this war.  <br />Here are a few of the remarkable insights the author gives us:  <BR>There was a tendency for American war planners and policy makers to think the job was done when their plans and policies were approved, leaving no one to monitor whether or not what they decided was effective.  He points out that we supported a regime that had little popular support and our conventional military tactics made the problem worse because bombing, artillery, napalm and Agent Orange would wound and kill the very people whose support we needed. After Tet, the Viet Cong insurgency was defeated and the Phoenix program of the assassination of Viet Cong leaders had decimated the leadership of the Viet Cong. By 1970 General Giap had concluded the only way the North could win the war was through regular war, the very kind of big-unit engagement American Generals had hoped for. But by this time, the political war at home was lost.  Yes, the press was partially to blame for our defeat. The constant stream of defeatism by the Press, especially during and after the Tet offensive cannot be underestimated in turning American opinion against the war. <br />Baritz takes issue with the claim that the war could have been won if the military had been allowed to fight it differently.  Not because we could not win, but because the American culture at the time precluded such a victory.  Vietnam was not perceived as a threat to American, there was no anger in the American public to support such a war. In the end, the North Vietnamese understood American culture, they believed they could win if they did not lose.  All they had to do was to outlast American patience.  The Americans war leaders believed that they would lose if they did not win. The failure to achieve quick and decisive victory doomed the American war effort.<br />Has the America changed? Are we now willing to do what we were incapable of doing in the 1960's? that is to wage an effective war?  Or has the American public, like that of ancient Rome as the barbarians gathered on their frontiers, grown tired of defending its freedom?  Only time will tell. 	2004-01-27
US	51388751	RHONJRE1VRYT4	0141390794	153448963	In Flanders Fields: Passchendaele 1917	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Take you back to a war now almost forgotton	I've read this book twice the last time being over ten years ago and its haunting images of slaughter on the battle are still vivid in my mind.  Although I had read All Is Quiet On The Western Front previously, I was not prepared for what I read here- the senselessness of the killing was unimaginable.  How in the world could General Haig (the British commander)  and Field Marshall Foch (the French commander) send hundreds of thousands of men to their death? If my memory serves me correctly, up to 20,000 allied soldiers died in one month alone.  <br />This is a highly readable history of the battle, one that will captivate your interest and keep you reading until the end.  Simply put, this book is hard to put down.  Time after time, you ask yourself, how could they keep up this senseless slaughter,  asking yourself what compelled these men to obey orders that meant certain death for no gain whatsoever?  Certainly the First World War was one of the most senseless and unless wars ever fought, laying the groundwork for even the more destructive Second World War.  <br />When the United States entered the war, it was to General Pershing's credit that he refused to dole out American troops under the command of Haig and Foch.  Pershing knew that they too would be used for cannon fodder under European command.  Since the Civil War, Americans have been reluctant to give their sons over to such slaughter.  <BR>   <BR>This is a gripping book.  Well written and hard to put down, it will take you back to a time and a war now almost forgotten.	2004-01-05
US	51388751	R3S40W9OKFI5QY	068484124X	41691709	Backtalk: 4 Steps to Ending Rude Behavior in Your Kids	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A simple way of gaining control of your home	We never had a back talk problem with our kids. No, they were not perfect kids; they could roll their eyes, ignore their parents and be sassy like other children. The only difference is that we never tolerated that kind of behavior in our home. Our children are now young adults and all of them are doing well. Even as adult children they would never dream of dishonoring their parents. You would think that as a pastor, I could effective teach others to do what we have done, but I had difficulty in communicated how we did this to other parents who needed help. To me, it was  intuitive behavior and I could not understand why other parents did not do what my wife and I did. <br />Frustrated, I ordered five copies of Backtalk after seeing the authors interviewed on the Today Show. Ricker and Crowder, parents who have conquered the Backtalk road, give common sense advice on how to reclaim parental authority, bring peace to your home, and help you raise up kids whom you will actually like.<BR> <BR>The principles set forth in Backtalk are based on the philosophical assumptions of Alfred Adler who believed that the most important point to make to parents was that their reaction to a child's misbehavior would either encourage the behavior, resulting in recurrence, or discourage the behavior. From this the authors have set forth a four-step system of logical consequences to discourage negative behavior and encourage positive behavior. The process is simple, but not easy. But take it from a dad and who raised up three respectful children, who and not only a joy to us but also to our friends, neighbors and congregation as well, it is worth the effort. For those of you who are unaware of the work of Adler, Dr. Laura of radio fame employs Adlerian methodology in her advice. <br />But beware! The authors rightly point out that if you employ their method, you may be seen and being self-righteous and cruel by psychologist, school teachers, friends and even your own family. But this stuff works. Just look at my three kids.	2004-01-04
US	51388751	RT2S3UP928GP4	0865317453	435587202	Nuclear Weapons And Foreign Policy	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Pertinent  to todays political situation	Why write a review on a book about nuclear weapons and foreign policy that is nearly fifty years old and does not reflect the current geo-political situation?  Because it is a darn good book.  Kissinger has a way writing that is succinct and to the point, he has the genius of explaining complicated subjects in simple terms.  The basic premise of the book is that the United States should not rule out the use of nuclear weapons in foreign policy.  He argues persuasively that the limited use of nuclear weapons need not escalate into cataclysmic nuclear exchange.  The forces of history have made this a moot point.  The Soviet Union lies in the dustbin of history and the surviving Russian republics are not capable of launching an effective nuclear counterstrike- the United States alone is now the worlds surviving superpower.  It is entirely conceivable that we could initiate a nuclear strike with relative impunity now.  Whether or not this would be politically or morally correct is a matter of debate.   But more importantly, the development of smart weapons have made the use of massive nuclear or even limited nuclear attack unnecessary. <br />But what makes this book worth the read is Kissingers insightful political analysis.  For instance, he argues that it is impossible to use traditional diplomacy based on good faith and a willingness to come to an agreement with a revolutionary power because such governments do not operate under the presuppositions of Western civilization.   Diplomatic meetings between such diverse powers are not seen by revolutionary powers as opportunities to come to an agreement and to avoid conflict, but as elaborate stage plays which to seek to influence and win over public opinion in other nations.  This is a lesson that those who wonder why the Moslem world hates the United States and who believe that if we just sit down and talk we can come to a reasonable understanding need to learn. Kissinger would say that such people live in a fools paradise.  <br />The use of force is not an evil but a strategic necessity if civilization is to be preserved.  Many liberals today believe that if the United States would just disarm and be more understanding of the Moslem world that the Osama Bin Ladens of this world would cease their hatred of us.  What these starried-eyed liberals do not understand is that the Moslem extremist do not hate us for what we do, but for who we are.  Their attacks will not stop until our civilization is destroyed.  Kissinger noted that the Turks did not stop voluntarily at the gates of Vienna or the Arabs in Southern France. Rather, a line was established because they had been defeated in battle, and the decay of Arab power did not set in until the West exercised unremitting pressure to push them back.  <br />Kissinger does not argue for the use of force over diplomacy, but that diplomacy is ineffective when the use of force has been abdicated.  Only when a nation stands ready to defend itself and is willing to use force will diplomacy work.  Thus, in our conflict with the Moslem world, if the United States unilaterally declares it will abdicate the use of force and will not retaliate for terrorists attacks against our citizens (or only purse retaliation only in the courts of law) there is no reason for Moslem extremists to give an inch- they will get everything they want.  Yes, it is still worth the read.	2004-01-02
US	51388751	RVIU9Q3FJB6ZP	0425187713	953706773	The Magical Worlds of Lord of the Rings: The Amazing Myths, Legends and Facts Behind the Masterpiece	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A guide to Middle Earth for both novice and fan	As of the writing of this review, the third movie installment of the Lord of the Rings has just been released into the theaters. With all the hype over each release of The Lord of the Rings, it seems incredible to me that there is anyone who is not familiar with at least the story line of this epic. Yet, it seems that almost daily I meet people who have not the faintest idea of what the trilogy is about. They have not seen the movies; they have not read the books, they do not know what Hobbits are, they never heard of an Ent, and they have no idea of what a Orc is. If this describes you, you need this book. <br />Well written and easy to read, it can serve as a primer to the uninitiated or as a resource to the most avid fan of LOTRs. What makes this book so interesting is that Colbert delves into the thinking of Tolkien as he wrote the Ring trilogy as well as the medieval literature that inspired him. Now before you prejudge this book and dismiss it as an uninteresting tome, I beg you to reconsider. It is really a fascinating read. <br />The huge success of the Lord of the Rings revival can be attributed to a large part to the September 11 attack. There is a war between good and evil, light and darkness going on and people need to know that good will prevail. But the Lord of the Rings is more complicated than merely good verses evil; it is a story of the complex motives and emotions that govern us. The Magical Worlds of the Lord of the Rings will help deepen you understanding of these great themes.	2004-01-02
US	51388751	R3N99AKAODSNHH	0451163966	808414399	One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Different View of Cuckoos Nest	Having read Cockoos Nest as least three times since the 1970's I want to look at Cuckoos Nest from another angle.  Popularly seen as a struggle against the Establishment this novel was the darling of the 60s generation.  I have to admit, after my first reading I saw Nurse Ratched as the Establishment and Murphy as the Free Spirit who comes against it.  But older and wiser now, I see it differently.<br />This is not a novel against the establishment but against tyranny.  The Establishment is presented benignly- it is the county police who arrested McMurphy, it is the jails across the Pacific Northwest that McMurphy was a frequent visitor, it is the doctors who are intimidated by Nurse Ratched it is the nurses who just try to do their jobs. These are not evil people; rather they are people who are trying to make the world we live in a good place to live. McMurphy, for the most part, is getting just what he deserves- he is a con-man who gets caught. Only in trying to manipulate the system for his own ends, does he find himself in the domain of Nurse Ratched and begins his epic struggle against tyranny.  As we read this novel it is clear that Nurse Ratched is the anomaly.  She misses the bad old days of the mental hospital when she ruled with an iron hand- she intimidates the doctors, nurses, staff and patients for her own ends.  It is only in his encounter with Nurse Ratched that McMurphy becomes a hero.  <br />But McMurphy is a tragic hero.  He does not understand the power that Big Nurse wields.  The object of war is victory, not making a statement. He makes a statement and loses the war- Billy commits suicide, McMurphy is lobotomized, and the rest of the acutes are traumatized.  Throughout the book, McMurphy is warned by others than Big Nurse of the consequences of his behavior; yet, he persists until, in the end, he loses.  <br />One more observation, the language of this book is beautiful.  It grabs you by the throat and drags you into McMurphys world.  Not an easy book to read, but well worth the effort.  Speaking about language, one sentence had over 170 words in it.  Wow! It takes a master at the English language to pull off a feat like that and keep the readers interest.	2004-01-01
US	51388751	R2RC3ZPJCXOKQH	1559705698	449192807	Red Sorrow	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Exposing the dangers of group think	It was a cold and rainy day and my wife and I  were out of town attending a wedding.  Checked out of the motel and too early for the wedding we  drove around wasting time before we had to arrive at the church.  Conversation had become stilted  so I thought my wife would like to hear some of the stories from Red Sorrow. So, I told her about the teachers who were ridiculed and beaten by their young students. I told her about the school principal who after being beaten and spat upon by her students was so humiliated that when she escaped from the room where the students had imprisoned her she ran down to the railroad tracks, laid on them and awaited her death. I told her about Nanchus parents who were brought before the student body and tormented and humiliated.  By that time, my wife had enough.  She did not want to hear any more.<br />This book gives the reader insight to postwar China- the Great Leap Forward that resulted in the Great Famine where 40 million Chinese perished; the Cultural Revolution and the raise of the Red Guards and the ensuring struggle for power among the leadership of China.   It is one thing to understand the ebb and flow of history, but is quite another thing to understand how this history affected real people.  In Red Sorrow we see how a family, dedicated to the Revolution becomes sweep up in the currents of history as we follow Nanchu from the age of thirteen to age thirty-three.  It is a riveting story, as the tormented becomes the tormentor.  Her parents accused of being spies and traitors are beaten and humiliated, the children become objects of scorn and ridicule.  Yet, this same child who suffered unimaginable pain, joins the Red Guards and becomes a tormentor herself.  We can understand what a child must do to survive, but as she grows up and attends college she still plays the same game.  As an adult, she will torment to insure her survival.  I also understand that.  But what is missing in this book is Nanchus introspection on this behavior.  She passes over it too quickly as if she is embarrassed by it.  It would have been a stronger book if she reflected more in depth what she was feeling and why she would participate in the degradation of another human being. <br />Why did these kids who lived decent and honest lives kick to death their High School teacher?  The answer is not simple, but could not groupthink be a contribution cause?  Decent people will do indecent things when they are in a group that thinks alike.  As I read this book I could not shake the uneasy feeling that this madness is raising its head in America.  No, we do not have Red Guards who beat and humiliate those who disagree with them; we have students, parents and interest groups who will sue and punish those who disagree with the politically correct thinking of the day.   Bernard Goldberg in his book Arrogance: Rescuing America From the Media Elite tells of the effects of groupthink in the newsrooms of Americans great newspapers.  Editors have to negotiate between the black, Hispanic, gay and feminists caucuses.  The sex scandal in the Catholic Church is a case in point.  The press describes it as a pedophilia problem.  Pedophiles prey on little children of both sexes- these priest are preying on preadolescent and adolescent boys.  It is not a pedophilia problem in the Catholic Church it is a homosexual problem. Yet, rarely is this reported lest the homosexual community be offended.  <br />Back to the book- People were punished, their lives destroyed and even killed not for what they did, not even for what they said, but for what they thought or for what others may have believed they thought.  This is dangerous and frightening.  I cannot help but be worried as my sons and daughter, all products of the American Higher Education, had to be careful of what they said or they felt compelled to write papers which reflected the preferred thought and not their own; and were required to attend sensitivity training on how to not offend minorities, homosexuals and women. I told them to shut up, not argue and get the grade. Um. . . sounds like something I read in Red Sorrow.	2004-01-01
US	51388751	R1FEAX50SF067F	0310242681	88798234	Transitioning	Books	4	6	14	N	N	Read this first, then transition	Where was this book eight years ago when I lead my church through a major transition?  The good news is that by the grace of God we did a lot of things right, the bad news is that if we had this book we would had done things much better.  If you are considering leading your church through a major transition, take it from a pastor who has been there before, read this book first.  <br />As good as it is Transitioning is not, nor does it portend to be, the be all and end all of church renewal books; rather, it gives the reader an outline to follow that will enable him or her to lead a transition successfully.  Yes, the process of transition can seem to be a little Machiavellian.  Those who have never led a church through renewal cannot understand the intense pressure a renewal pastor experiences.  If anything is understated in this book, it is the description of the intensity of opposition.  George Barna in his book Turn Around Churches makes the observation that transitioning a church is a job for men under fifty years of age.  Why? The intensity of opposition is so great that many older men do not have the energy to complete the process.  My D.Min. Dissertation was on church renewal among the churches of the Pacific Northwest and every renewal pastor I interviewed told of the intense opposition that he experienced.  One said: I thought they were going to kill me and my family spiritually, psychologically, and yes, even physically.  Transitioning is not a job for wimps.<br />Southerland is right- transitioning is a long process.  He calls for a four-year process.  We thought we could do it in two or three years, it took us five.  Was it worth it? You bet.  Oh, by the way one insight that Southerland gave me is that the process of vision making is cyclical.  The vision needs to be revisited from time to time and tweaked to meet the needs of a changing culture and community.	2004-01-01
US	51388751	R2GD9UIUUUNPWS	0385507720	63448546	Managing Up: How to Forge an Effective Relationship With Those Above You	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Good reading for the boss	After seeing Rosanne interviewed on the Today Show, I bought a copy for my wife who was working for an entrepreneur at the time, and one for my own administrative assistant.   Neither of them, I think, finished the book so I figured that I might as well read it.<br />The most insight Badowski gives is that leadership does not flow always flow from the top down; rather, it can flow up the management ladder and lateral as well.  If we define leadership in terms of influence rather than position this makes sense.  The relationship between the executive and his subordinates should be one of mutual encouragement.  Do not get me wrong here- I am not talking about the warm fuzzy feelings of New Age pop psychology, but of the blunt reality that my success in life, business and ministry depends on those above me, below me and along side me being successful.  Rosanne simply states what should be oblivious to anyone- if we work for the success of those around us we too will succeed.<br />Yes, the book was full of insights and information on how to forge effective working relationships, but I have to come back to the observation I made in my first paragraph-  my wife and secretary did not complete reading this book.  I think they were expecting more of a textbook on how to be a effective administrative assistant.  Much of the book, however, dealt with the history and corporate culture of Jack Welch and GE.  Although I was fascinated by it, they found these parts irrelevant.	2003-12-31
US	51388751	R39HEQ9NK943TN	1404374043	288166948	The Nibelungenlied	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Whew! What a battle scene!	This is a medieval epic on the scale of Homer's Iliad.  Written about 1200 A.D. by an unnamed poet, it is believed to be the culmination of Germanic sagas reaching back to the sixth or fifth century A.D with some scholars believing the Hungarian King Etzel as being to Attila the Hun. Although not well known, the German composer Richard Wagner used its themes in Der Ring Des Nibelungen and its themes can be seen in Tolkein's Lord of the Rings.  <br />The story of one of murder and revenge and ends in the destruction of two armies.  Are you ready for the plot?  Here it is- Having won the Amazonian Queen Brunhild for King Gunther in exchange for Gunther's sister Kriemhild, Siegfried is murdered by Gunter's vassel Hagen after a quarrel between the Queens, for which Kremhild avengers the murder of her husband, Siegfried. <br />The epic as we have it now, obviously comes from two sources.  The first half of the poem deals with the German national hero, Siegfried and his Nibelungenlieds.  It is slow moving and deals with the magical aspect of medieval life, the invisible cloak, magic rings (shades of Lord of the Rings) and mighty knights overcoming the amazonian Brunhild.  It is only with the betrayal and murder of Siegfried that the story takes a turn towards great literature as the second source of this epic begins.  The magical aspects and superman aspects disappear, and we have a story of murder and revenge.  <br />The hero now is Hagan.  Kriemhild who was the epitome of feminism is transformed by her thirst for revenge into a bloodthirsty tyrant bent on the destruction of her enemy at all cost. The book ends with an epic battle that takes up the last quarter of the book.  It is a story of courage and loyalty.  Hagan fights against all odds until he and a handful of warriors are left.  Confronted by Kriemhild, the last of the Nibelungenlieds refuse to yield and she has them executed, cutting off Hagan's head with her own hand.  Kriemhild is herself murdered by one of her vassals and the story ends.  Whew!  What a battle scene!	2003-12-27
US	51388751	R2E0CP9W42IYRE	0140441379	8490560	The Nibelungenlied: Prose Translation (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Influenced Tolkeins  Lord of the Rings	This is a medieval epic written about 1200 A.D. by an unnamed poet and is the culmination of Germanic sagas reaching back to the sixth or fifth century A.D with some scholars believing the Hungarian King Etzel as being to Attila the Hun. Although not well known, the German composer Richard Wagner used its themes in Der Ring Des Nibelungen and its themes can be seen in Tolkein's Lord of the Rings.  <br />The story of one of murder and revenge and ends in the destruction of two armies.  Are you ready for the plot?  Here it is- Having won the Queen Brunhild for King Gunther in exchange for Gunther's sister Kriemhild, Siegfried is murdered by Gunter's vassel Hagen after a quarrel between the Queens, for which Kremhild avengers the murder of her husband, Siegfried. <br />The epic as we have it now, obviously comes from two sources.  The first half of the poem deals with the German national hero, Siegfried and his Nibelungenlieds.  It is slow moving and deals with the magical aspect of medieval life, the invisible cloak, magic rings (shades of Lord of the Rings) and mighty knights overcoming the amazonian Brunhild.  It is only with the betrayal and murder of Siegfried that the story takes a turn towards great literature as the second source of this epic begins.  The magical aspects and superman aspects disappear, and we have a story of murder and revenge.  <br />The hero now is Hagan.  Kriemhild who was the epitome of feminism is transformed by her thirst for revenge into a bloodthirsty tyrant bent on the destruction of her enemy at all cost. The book ends with an epic battle that takes up the last quarter of the book.  It is a story of courage and loyalty.  Hagan fights against all odds until he and a handful of warriors are left.  Confronted by Kriemhild, the last of the Nibelungenlieds refuse to yield and she has them executed, cutting off Hagan's head with her own hand.  Kriemhild is herself murdered by one of her vassals and the story ends.  Whew!  What a battle scene!	2003-12-27
US	51388751	R2A0X2JPX437GN	0316739928	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A remarkable view of humanity in a man made hell	Often touted as the classic war novel of all time, All is Quiet on the Western Front is a profound look at the nature of war and its effect on men.  Yes, it is an anti-war novel, but that is not the theme I would like to explore in this review; rather, I would want to look at Remarques insight on both the dehumanizing effect of war on man, and surprisingly how war brings out the best men can offer.  Do not get me wrong-  Remarque does not make the case for war, but in the midst of the utter brutality of war when men are being dehumanized, our heroes find humanity.<br />The dehumanizing of the soldiers begins in boot camp.  It is there that the process of dehumanization begins.  Remarque writes: At first astonished, then embittered, and finally indifferent, we recognized that what a matter is not the mind, but the boot brush, not intelligence but the system, not freedom but drill.  As Paul and his friends are being drawn into the maelstrom of war a place where reason and intellect give way to the brutal instincts of survival.  Paul comments: We reach the zone where the front begins and become in the instant animals.  We have become wild beasts- we defend ourselves against annihilation.<br />They kill not for country, nor for ideology, but for survival.  Paul has nothing against his enemies- he realizes that they are men just as he.  He kills to survive. He kills out of fear.  Nowhere is this more dramatically demonstrated than when Paul kills the French solider in the shell hole in no-mans land where he took shelter.  As the French soldier lies dying, Paul regrets what he has done; he promises the dying soldier that he will look up his family after the war. This is perhaps the most poignant moment in the novel.  At this moment our protagonist Paul is remarkable like the Apostle Paul of the New Testament wishing himself accursed if only his country men could be saved.  The difference between enemy and friend is the command they receive. He does not hate his enemy; itis self-preservation, nothing more. He kills so he may live.<br />What is astonishing is that when Paul has opportunity to free himself from this man-made hell, he chooses to return to the front.  Why?  He cannot abandon his friends.  But in the end this altruism is meaningless.  In the end, they all die.  On a day when the front is calm, when it is reported that all is quiet on the western front, he falls, felled by an enemys bullet. Paul's death is meaningless.  This is a powerful novel and should be must reading for everyone.	2003-12-21
US	51388751	R36H9R7OBRDWIL	0060191384	40354766	The Ten Commandments: The Significance of God's Laws in Everyday Life	Books	4	10	13	N	N	The Cornor Stone of Western Law- must reading	I went to a Christian men's conference once and the speaker asked the audience how many of us believed in the Ten Commandments and, of course, every hand shot up.  The next question the speaker asked was a little more troubling- How many of you can repeat the Ten Commandments from memory.  The silence was deafening.  Not one hand was raised.  It was at that moment that I purposed in my heart to buy this book.  <br />In light of the recent court challenges on the public display of the Ten Commandments and the increasing hostility towards the Judeo-Christian values, this book is must reading for those of us who hold these values dear.  The Ten Commandments are the cornerstone upon which Western law and civilization are based upon.<br />Even as a pastor, this book was convicting.  Subtitled: The Significance of God's Laws in Everyday Life, Schlessinger made me reconsider much of my behavior.  For instance, the Eighth Commandment, You shall not steal- has implications that many of us have not even considered.  At the base of this commandment is that God considers the possession of things of significant importance; thus when we violate someones property, we are violating them.  Practical application?  How about borrowing and forgetting to return property?  I had to go through my bookshelves and garage and return a multitude of items I had borrowed.<br />The lesson of this book is clear: The Ten Commandments have profound implications for how we live.  Put this book on your must read list.	2003-12-20
US	51388751	R1XX7058ADZMM3	1589633172	289604833	The Don Flows Home to the Sea, Vol. 1	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Dark, nihilistic, and foreboding	Whereas I probably read Sholokhovs And Quiet Flows the Don three or four times, I have read The Don flows Home to The Sea only once.  It is a dark, nihilistic and foreboding novel.  Picking up where volume one leads off, it follows the Russian Civil War to its conclusion in orgy of violence, death and destruction.  I can see why other reviewers see this novel has having no redeemable qualities- it is a story of death, betrayal and heartache.  <br />Yet, I give it a Five-Star rating.  It is still a great novel.  Once again we follow the Prokoffievich family as it tries to survive in the chaos of war.  I was particularly intrigued how our protagonist, Gregor, changes sides from the Reds to the Whites and back.  Clearly, Gregor was not driven by ideological considerations, but by survival, and yes, perhaps even his own self interest.  By the way, from a historical perspective, this is probably the last war in which horses and cavalry were extensively used.  Think about it as late as 1920's, men were fighting on horseback.  Wow!  Yes, it is worth the read, but you may only read it once.   It is a terrifying novel.	2003-12-20
US	51388751	R24FGWG256WPE8	1589633172	289604833	The Don Flows Home to the Sea, Vol. 1	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Dark, nihilistic, and foreboding	Whereas I probably read Sholokhovs And Quiet Flows the Don three or four times, I have read The Don flows Home to The Sea only once.  It is a dark, nihilistic and foreboding novel.  Picking up where volume one leads off, it follows the Russian Civil War to its conclusion in orgy of violence, death and destruction.  I can see why other reviewers see this novel has having no redeemable qualities- it is a story of death, betrayal and heartache.  <br />Yet, I give it a Five-Star rating.  It is still a great novel.  Once again we follow the Prokoffievich family as it tries to survive in the chaos of war.  I was particularly intrigued how our protagonist, Gregor, changes sides from the Whites to the Reds and back.  Clearly, Gegor was not driven by ideological considerations, but by survival, and yes, perhaps even his own self interest.  <br />I could not believe it when Aksinia is shot while trying to escape a roadblock on horseback.  Just as the book is coming to its conclusion, just when you think that our Gregor and Aksina may finally escape the carnage of civil war, death comes. <br />By the way, from a historical perspective, this is probably the last war in which horses and cavalry were extensively used.  Think about it as late as 1920's, men were fighting on horseback.  Wow!  Yes, it is worth the read, but you may only read it once.   It is a terrifying novel.	2003-12-19
US	51388751	R36OU5BWS576TU	1589633121	461694546	And Quiet Flows the Don (v. 1)	Books	5	39	40	N	N	A modern masterpiece	I first read this magnificent epic in 1970 and have reread it at least three times since.  Sholokhov captures the breath and sweep of the steppes of Russia as he draws the reader into maelstrom of the First World War, the Russian Revolution and Civil War.  It is a time and a land that was caught between the modern industrialized West and the near medieval Russia- Cossack Calvary charging German machine guns, the slash of sabers, and the incongruity of machine guns mounted on ox carts.<br />But more than a story of war, this is a story of people.  Sholokhov creates for us characters who we deeply care about.  The doomed love affair between the protagonist Gregor and Aksinia is both filled with passion and heartache.  We even come to care about Akisina husband, the brutal Stephen, We see them caught up in catastrophic events far beyond their control.  Although often cited and an apologist for Stalin, I wondered as I read it why it was published in Soviet Union.  Our hero Gregor is first swept up on one side of this conflict to the other- clearly he is not a dedicated revolutionary, but just a man trying to survive in a conflict he cannot comprehend.  It is a story of survival, love, and revenge.    Since my last reading of this novel probably fifteen years ago, I can still vividly picture in my mind the word images that Sholokhov crafted with his pen.  Images as simple as the flies settling on the ceiling of the peasants hut, to Stephen brutally stomping his wife Aksinia.  His description of the First World War is brutal, perhaps surpassing Remarques All is Quiet on the Western Front. <br />Russians write great novels and this is one of the best.  If you are unfamiliar with Russian literature you would do well to read Quiet Flows the Don as your first Russian novel.	2003-12-19
US	51388751	RJXZ9EPC0JO0A	0895261537	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	5	16	20	N	N	I had to think about this for a month before writing	I kept putting off writing this review to allow time to let me gain perspective on what I had just read.  Despite waiting for nearly a month, I hardly know where to start.  This is a profound intellectual argument for the greatness of America. In it the author answers the question so many Americans are asking themselves now: Why do they hate us?  He considers the three basic currents of opposition to America's global influence: the European critique, the Asian critique, and the Islamic critique.<br />The title itself is galling to the politically correct multi-cuturalist who believe that all cultures are equal, except, of course, for the decedent America culture.  But if one would put aside emotionalism and listen to the argument D Souza expostulates, he makes a compelling case that American culture is superior.  Not because he declare it so, but because the poor of the world emulate our culture and desire to become Americanized. <br />This is not the ranting of a right-wing ideologue.  Granted, the author is a self-confessed conservative, but he is a conservative who will take on not only the doomsayers of the left, but those on the right as well. He gives us a hopeful picture of the future.   Whats So Great About America is a fresh breeze of optimism.	2003-12-16
US	51388751	R2RIPMD2TVK9EN	1565075501	354381271	Bondage Breaker	Books	4	39	42	N	N	It changed my theological view of demons	This book was my introduction to spiritual warfare.  I can still remember by Bible College professor walking the tightrope unwilling to concede that demonic spirits are active today.  If  I remember right, he postulated three theories of demonic activity: The accommodation theory- that Jesus knew that demonic activity did not exist, but that he accommodated himself to the world view of his day.  According to this view, people who were supposedly demon possessed were actually mentally ill.  The second theory was that demons are real, but that they were only active in Jesus day; thus present day demonic activity is very rare and is confined to pagan cultures.  The third theory was that demon activity is a present day phenomenon we have to deal with. As highly impressionable underclassmen, we were left to our own devices to figure which choice was the right one.   <br />Anderson rightly points out that the church had pretty much bought into the scientific/psychological model of deviant behavior- that we do not believe that the spiritual world does impinges on the natural world.  As a result many evangelical Christians have either excluded the supernatural from their worldview or have consigned it to the transcendental tier where little effect on day to day living.  When I first read Bondage Breakers, I came the realization that although I could teach about demon possession, I really did not believe that demons were active in our present day world.  Although Andersons views have become more mainstream in the evangelical church, there are still those who see him as rather radical; while some charismatic side may see him as too tame.  I see Bondage Breakers as an excellent introduction to spiritual warfare and a book every pastor ought to read.	2003-12-15
US	51388751	R16ISARZGRBK1Z	0553201255	685470323	The Black March	Books	5	18	22	N	N	I could hardly put the book down.	What a book!  This is at least the second time I have read it and as far as a war memoir goes, it just about as good and it gets.  Although a little slow at first and lacking the character development of a great novel, it takes the reader by storm and involves him in the terror battle and the absolute carnage and cruelty of war.   It is a five-star book action wise, but a one-star book morally.  The author seems to be justifying his role as an officer in the infamous SS.  As noted in previous reviews, never once does he condemn the extermination of the Jews, Communist party officials or others deemed unfit for life.  <br />What we do see here is the dehumanization of people.  The ruthlessness of the SS was founded in the German belief that the Jews, Slavic and Asian peoples were less than human.  Yes, he recoils at horror when first exposed to the slaughter of innocent civilians, communist party officials and German deserters, but in the end he justifies it to himself. He writes: We of the SS must be ruthless. But the partisans also wage an inhuman war and show no mercy.  Perhaps we cannot blame them for wishing to defend their own land, but all the same, it's clearly our duty to destroy them. . . When the wives and children of those bandits are killed, because their menfolk are guilty of cowardly murder of some German solider, perhaps they will stop and think.  In order words, Neumann reasons that the end justifies the means.  <br />I think it is interesting that secular man rejects Christianity and often cites the religious wars of Europe and the Crusades as demonstrating the terrible dark side of religion. As a Christian and a pastor I know there is no way that religious war can be justified in the name of Christ; but we really do need to reconsider the premise that the abolition of religion will stop prejudice, war and genocide.  It is interesting to note that the twentieth century puts the rest of history to shame in its slaughter of innocents- The Russian Revolution and Civil War, Stalin's Purges, the rise of Fascism in German and Italy, the slaughter of 6 million Jews and the death of 20 million Russians in the Second World War, the Cambodian Holocaust which resulted in the death of over two million, not to mention the millions who died in Communist China- these people were killed by secular idealist.<br />Back to the book.  Neumann's description of the battle of Vienna is unsurpassed in drama, suspense and terror. I could hardly put the book down.  He literally draws the reader into the battle.  We lie with him in a corpse and sewage infested canal, lying in freezing temperatures in the dank water up to our mouths praying that the Russian soldiers will not spot us.  It is outstanding writing.  The only thing I wish he publisher included would be an afterward.  How long was Neumann in captivity? Was he forced into slave labor?  When was he repatriated?  It is a hard to find book, but well worth the read.	2003-12-12
US	51388751	R27YUA6WDCWU66	0448001896	207643089	Russian Revolution 1918-21	Books	5	4	5	N	N	One of the best on the Russian Revolution!	For high drama and the clash of ideas, nothing beats the Russian Revolution.  Titanic in its scope and extraordinary in its effect on twentieth century history, most Americans remain abysmally   ignorant of it.  If you are a student of history, you cannot beat Chamberlains history of the Russian Revolution.  Written in a highly readable style, Chamberlain has the ability to draw the reader into this drama that changed the history of the world.  <br />Neither friend or foe of the revolution, Chamberlain relays to the reader the epic struggle of the Revolution and the ensuring Civil War.  What is interesting is Chamberlains insight into the less well-known episodes of the revolution and civil war. He starts out telling the story of the Czecho-Slovaks former war prisoners and deserters from the Austro-Hungarian Army who were instrumental in leading a democratic counterrevolution in Siberia and later on in the book describes the Soviet war  with Poland in 1920.<br />Chamberlain chronicles the forced labor, the mass executions by the Cheka and subjugation of the aristocracy and capitalist classes.  He recognizes the revolution for what it was, the most profound historical event in the twentieth century- the emergence of a new state order, a new economic system, a new world outlook, a new conception of life and ethics.  Time has, however, taken its toll.  The Red experiment that cost the lives of millions failed.  It was bankrupted by its own moral and economic failures, by the arms build-up of Ronald Reagan and the moral and religious influence of Pope John Paul.  <br />Yes, it is worth the read.  A fine history book which will give you not only information, but insight into the Russian Revolution.	2003-12-12
US	51388751	R2HT45EBX8K5CH	044653191X	635347725	Arrogance: Rescuing America From the Media Elite	Books	5	141	170	N	N	It is about time someone wrote this book	Arrogance by Bernard Goldberg<BR>Reviewed December 8, 2003<br />Being a self-confessed news junkie, all I can say is that it is about time someone dealt with liberal bias in the major media.  Katie Couric is bad enough, but when Bryant Gumbel was on the Today Show the bias was so self-evident that I was dumbfounded that liberals could look me in the face and innocently say, What Bias?  The rolling of the eyes, the disappointing sighs, and the askance looks which were exclusively reserved for conservatives.  Hey, how about Matt Lauer interview of Charlton Heston.  Can anyone out there cite me one liberal that has been treated with such disrespect?<br />Unlike Hilary's vast right wing conspiracy Goldberg repeatedly refuses the attribute liberal bias in the news to a conspiracy.  The liberal bias is due to the fact that liberals tend to be drawn to journalism, they attend liberal schools; they live in liberal cultural centers such as New York City.   The result is that there is hardly a national journalist who would describe himself or herself as liberal.  All their friends, family as associates think like them, so they conclude that they are middle of the road.  Hence, the media elite constantly refer to label conservative academics, politicians and research groups as conservations; whereas such groups as NOW, physicians for social responsibility, a plethora of public interest groups and such politicians as Ted Kennedy and Howard Dean rarely are labeled as liberal.  The  inference that the news audience draws is that those who are labeled as conservation are pushing an agenda, whereas those liberal groups that are given a bye on the liberal label are unselfishly working in the nations best interest<br />The book is very well researched, citing Nexus searches, interview, articles, etc. This is not a rating of a dissatisfied employee, or some conservative wacko, it is a reasoned argument about news bias.  The sad conclusion that Goldberg reaches is that news bias is onediscussion that liberals will not even discuss.  Anyone who puts forth a reasoned argument for bias, is immediately dismissed as a right-wing wacko or as a racist bigot.  <br />I could write several more thousand words, but you would be much better served by reading this insightful book.	2003-12-09
US	51388751	RTA0Y9ZE0507I	1561797162	791365917	Raising a Modern Day Knight: A Father's Role in Guiding His Son to Authentic Manhood	Books	3	17	29	N	N	Raising boys to be men in a polically correct world	Thank you Mr. Lewis for providing us with a model to raise boys into men in a politically correct world.  There are those, to be sure, who will take issue with the Lewis premise, but we have taken it to heart.  In our schools, mass media and sadly even in many of our churches, there is a concerted effort to punish boys for being boys- do not play with guns, hunting is evil, and if they show any hint of testosterone dope them up with Ritalin. What have kind of harvest have we reap in the last thirty years of trying to raise gender neutral, sensitive boys, devoid of masculine violence? A raising rate of fatherlessness running up to eighty percent in some communities.  But then again, who needs fathers?<br />But the question needs to be asked- is raising modern day knights a biblical concept? Is knighthood and Christlikeness compatible?  I think so.  Certainly, Jesus never condemned the soldiers role.  In fact, in both the gospels and the Book of Acts, Roman centurions serve as a model of what it means to be men of faith.  Also, Romans 12 speaks of the role of the state, including the police and military, as instruments of God to keep the peace.<br />Our boys need to learn how to be men.  Raising a Modern Day Knight not the perfect model of how to train boys to be men, but it is a good model.  We are using it as our church teaching our boys the four tenants of manhood promulgated by Lewis: A real man rejects passivity; a real man accepts responsibility; a real man leads courageously and finally, a real man expects the greater reward.  Our boys, who can be expelled from school, if not arrested, for drawing a picture of a gun in school have learned how to safely handle and shoot rifles and shotguns, and have sliced watermelons with a saber. When these boys grow up and marry, they will be men who love, respect and protect their wives. They will provide their sons and daughters with a model of what a Christlike man looks like.	2003-12-06
US	51388751	R3W0BLC9GRXHOT	0684187116	427012340	The Last of the Mohicans (Scribner's Illustrated Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Captures the ruggedness of the American wilderness	I first read The Last of the Mohicans in 1973 and have reread it periodically over the years.  Although Mark Twain is often given credit for being the first quintessential American author, I would vote for James Fenimore Cooper.  This is a magnificent book that captures the ruggedness of the American wilderness and creates the American Hero, Hawkeye- the loner who rejects the institutions and the relationships that most men need and who stand alone for what is right. This motif has been picked up in countless American heros ranging from Hammetts Sam Spade to John Wayne.<br />Although written in a style that may be difficult for the contemporary reader to grasp, it is, nevertheless, a beautifully written novel.  Cooper has a way of describing the savage beauty of the American wilderness that is unequaled in literature. An example of this is his description of the forest swallowing up the European armies only to spit them out in ragged pieces- armies larger than those that often dispose of the scepters of the mother countries were seen to bury themselves in these forest, whence they rarely returned but in skeleton bands that were haggard with care or dejected by defeat.  Raised in western Oregon and spending much of my youth in the Oregon wilderness, I know exactly what Cooper describes.  There is a terrible beauty about the wilderness that both invites and destroys.  It is a beauty that draws on into its inner recesses can quickly turn into terror as the weather turns foul, ones sense of direction is lost and the forest seems to close in around one fights off the feeling of terror and loneliness.  It gives an rush that city folks cannot even imagine.  <br />The story is set in the geo-political struggle between the France and England for control of colonial empires both in the Americans and India.  It is a story of savagery, slaughter, betrayal and courage.  Of course, this book would offend the sensibilities of politically correct.  Yes, Indians are describes as savages and yes, they massacre innocent women and children. Yes, Europeans get better press; but Cooper, like Melville, addresses the race issue.  Hero's and villains are been on both sides of the conflict.  This is a great book and should be on your must read list of American literature.	2003-12-06
US	51388751	RPJY62928AN3Q	0340721448	956023463	Anointing (Hodder Christian Books)	Books	3	14	17	N	N	OK, I guess	The books chief weakness is that Kendall fails to adequately develop the New Testament concept of the anointing.  Perhaps this is too difficult of a thing to do since the anointing is mentioned only once in the book of James and twice in I John.   What exactly is the New Testament concept of anointing? Is it the same as the Old Testament?  What is the relationship between anointing and charisma?  These issues could have been explored more deeply.  Those with a charismatic background will readily buy into Kendalls theological assumptions, the rest of us, however,  need a little more exegesis please.  <br />By far the best chapter in the book is the last.  The author argues passionately against the excesses of evangelicals who tend to ignore or denigrate  the role of the Holy Spirit, and the charismatics who seem to give only lip service to the written Word. Kendall argues that a balance between the Word and the Spirit is needed to fully understand the will and guidance of God in our lives.  <br />Yeah, it is worth the read.  It really opened by eyes to the possibility of getting stuck in the past, holding on to yesterdays move of God while God is doing a new work.  By the way, Peter Ducker argues that many non-profits far outlive their usefulness by continuing to purse the founders vision long after the need that brought to nonprofit into existence is fulfilled.  In more theological terms, we may say these non-profit para-church organizations are operating under yesterdays anointing.	2003-12-01
US	51388751	R30E7ULGHW1IPM	0451522044	887884219	AN American Tragedy (Signet Classics)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Put it on your must read list.	Yes, it is a very long book over 800 pages; yes it is definitely an American classic; yes, it is an tragedy; but whether  it is a portrait of the dark side of the American Dream is debatable.  Dreiser does a masterful job portraying the harsh realities of American life at the turn of the twentieth century. The factories, the class structure and the promise of success that eluded many people including our protagonists were the realities that an upwardly mobile young man would face.  But as I read this book, I could not blame the American Dream for Clydes selfish ambition and crime as much as I blamed Clyde himself.  To some extent, most of us who have not been born into position of wealth and power, seek to gain both through our careers, marriage and the friendships we forge; yet, very few of us will succumb to the manipulation and subterfuge as Clyde did.  The fleeting promise of money, power and position were not responsible for Clydes crime.  When we see such callousness and disregard for human life as demonstrated by Clyde we cannot bring ourselves to blame the perpetrator of the crime.  Somehow people who do horrible things are not to blame for their actions- we psychologize their behavior by saying they are sick, or we minimize their behavior by saying that society is culpable, ie, racism, poverty,  homophobia, or Twinkies are at least partly responsible.<br />Clyde plotted murder and used people because he was a bad person.  He was evil.  He used people for his own pleasure and advancement and when they got in his way he got rid of them.  Dark side of the American Dream? Would Clyde behaved himself better if he raised in a socialist workers paradise? Would he faired better if society was more egalitarian?  I do not think so.  Some people are just evil.  This is not so much a portrayal of the dark side of the American dream as much as it is a portrayal of the dark side of man.<br />Yes, it is a great book.  Dreiser is a master at drawing the reader into the story.  Without giving the plot away, the reader is drawn into the mind of Clyde as he plots his murder only to give into second thoughts and finds himself accused of a murder that he plotted out in detail, but did not intentionally commit.  Clydes refusal to save Roberta and his behavior after the death her death accuses him.    It's is truly a great book.	2003-11-26
US	51388751	R2O0QZLCBV6TMZ	0883681072	476150429	Maximized Manhood: A Guide to Family Survival	Books	5	17	23	N	N	Must Reading for Every Man	This is my second reading of Maximized Manhood, and although it is over twenty years old, it still speaks with a clarion voice to men that manhood and Christlikeness are synonymous.   Subtitle A Guide Top Family Survival, Cole rightly discerns that the role of the man, which is under attack from political and cultural left, must conform to his biblical antecedents if the family is going to survive in the future.   This book is really apolitical, as Cole does not specially identify the leftist institutions that seek to destroy or redefine the American family and the biblical role of the male, outside of commenting on and condemning the rising tide of feminism and pornography.<br />Speaking as a man to men, Cole rejects the insipidism of much evangelical thought and practice.  He rightly discerns that nowhere in the Scripture are men invited to repent of their sins and accept Jesus as their Lord and Savior; rather, the Bible commands men to repent.  The idea of giving an invitation for men to accept Jesus as their Lord and Savior is foreign to the New Testament.  Cole also attacks the psychologicalization of the Christian faith.  The idea of sin has been supplanted by of having problems.  Cole points out that if you only have a problem you can get sympathy for it or understating for it, or professional help.  Sins, on the other hand, have to be repented, confessed and forsaken. <br />Yes, the book is somewhat dated.  Illustrations often refer to a culture that is over twenty years old.  Even the revised version still reflects that old culture. But do not let this get in your way.  Cole is a master of setting forth biblical truth in succinct phrases or coleisms such as: You can pitch personality, but you must build character; The greatest thing a father can do for his children is to love their mother; Some things in life are more important than life itself; The Kingdom of God is built on truth, not human sentiment.  The list goes on and on.<br />Is this a great book? Probably not.  Will this book change your life? Yes, if you read it and apply its principles.  It may not be a great book but Dr. Cole was a great man.  Read it and learn what it means to be a man after God's own heart.	2003-11-25
US	51388751	R1CD949R5XZ8I9	0684310171	311217037	Theology of the New Testament	Books	2	29	77	N	N	A Tiresome Read	Reading this book was not an easy task especially when one has been taught that Bultmann was a seven-headed devil. After reading through this massive monument of erudite scholarship, I am happy to report that old Rudolf is not a seven-headed devil as previously reported but a five-headed devil.  It is essential that one establish that Bultmann is an existentialist and that his philosophy colors much of his scholarship.  It is because of his existentialism that Bultmann makes the mistake of separating faith from history in favor of God who meets each man in his own little history; his everyday life with its daily gifts and demands.  One must appreciate Bultmans existentialism for much of the New Testament involves existential decisions- One must choose to follow Christ; one must make a decision about the cross; but in no way does this invalidate or abase the value of history.  Bultmann shows his true existential colors when he claims that the sayings of Paul rest on kergyma alone and are not dependent upon past historical facts. It seems that Bultmann has failed to realize that the kerygma is a product of history- the resurrection is not true because the church says it is; it is true because it is an historical fact.<br />For being an existentialist, Bultmann relies heavily on empiricism.  The constant denial of anything supernatural is indicative of this.  He is thoroughly objective, discounting the miraculous, while at the same time he is thoroughly existential, denying objectivity.  This is the basic contradiction of Bultmannian theology.  This can be demonstrated by his discussion of the Spirit where Bultmann puts revelation within the realm of reason.  This is not to say that revelation is not inclusive of reason, but contrary to Bultmann, reason is not inclusive of revelation.  He puts revelation within the realm of human understanding (quasi-empiricism) and not in the essence of being (existentialism) thereby violating his own philosophical presuppositions.<br />It is a tiresome read.  I think it is time to put old Rudolf out to pasture.  Bultmann too, was a man of his time, influence by the philosophical assumptions of his time.  For the evangelical reader, this book is a waste of time.r />It is a tiresome read.  I think it is time to put old Rudolf out to pasture.  Bultmann too, was a man of his time, influence by the philosophical assumptions of his time.  For the evangelical reader, this book is a waste of time.	2003-10-29
US	51388751	R1GGJ0WXPJDA3L	0310225582	464807029	Surprised by the Voice of God	Books	5	55	59	N	N	Put This On You A-List	I was taught that God only speaks through his Word. Period.  It was up to us, as reasonable beings to read, understand and discern the will of God.  Thus,  God's will was reduced to Scriptural principles to follow.  It was a safe way to live the Christian life. It was all so reasonable.  It was all up to me to read. It was up to me to understand. It was up to me to discern Gods will.  Evidently, those who hear God's voice were to be locked up in rooms with padded walls where men in white coat would take care of them.<br />Then I read Surprised by the Voice of God and my theological world was turned on its head.  Subtitled, How God Speaks Today Though Prophecies, Dreams, and Visions, this is a thoughtful analysis of how God speaks to us today.  Now, I know that some of you reading this review are saying: That Pastor Bob has just went over the deep end. Perhaps I have.  But if going over the deep end means having a closer more intimate relationship with my God, so be it.  But before you slam this review, go to your local Christian bookstore and speak a peek at Chapter 17, Confessions of a Bible Deist.  Go ahead, the clerk will not mind. It is Deeres  contention in that chapter that much of evangelical thought (his included) has more incoming with deism than Biblical Christianity.  The deists worshiped human reason, the Bible deists of today worship the Bible. With a lawyers wit, Deere thoroughly examines evangelical theology and presuppositions in light of the Word of God.<br />It is a delightful, life-changing read.  Put this one on you A-list.	2003-10-29
US	51388751	RT6SE9NVZF9ZI	006130056X	322508073	Dogmatics in Outline	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Impressive brief of New Testament Theology	Although not a long book, Dogmatics in Outline presents an impressive brief of New Testament theology.  Barths ability to present a balanced outline, void of any radical deviations, not only makes for refreshing reading, but allows Barth to examine the Scriptures with much more insight than would otherwise be possible.  Barth proposes a study of dogmatics based on history. It is the history of God's dealings with the nation of Israel and the church that leads us out of the realm of subjective philosophy and nonsensible theories about the nature of God into the account of the content of the proclamation of the church. The study of dogmatics based on history helps prevents us from being led astray by the sometimes false evidence of our thoughts and hearts and groups our faith on the evidence and testimony of the apostles and prophets. <br />Barths respect for the Scripture colors his whole theology.  According to Barth, ones belief in the Word of God is equivalent to trusting it.  When a Christian trust in the Word, he is given a gift of freedom by God, freedom not only from sin, but freedom to believe.  One is no longer required to justify himself before God because God has set him free from such worry.  <br />The strongest part of Barths book is his concept of revelation.  Revelation is the sole prerogative of God- Gode revealing himself to man.  It is because of this that it is mere speculation for man to try to prove the existence of  God.  Barth goes even one step farther by stating that trying to prove God by the so-called give famous proofs is mere folly since the bible speaks simply as God as being one who needs no proof.  The sixty-four dollar question is how does God prove himself?  Barth answers that God shows himself to man through history.  According to Barth, the Bible is the record of God's deeds though which we can come to know God and that this climaxes in the person of Jesus Christ.  Since God is the God if history natural revelation, the revelationof power, beauty and love is totally inadequate to come to saving knowledge of God.  Natural revelation is only a witness to God and not about him. <br />All told this is an enlightening book, informative and well written.  If you are looking to gain a further understanding of neo-orthodoxy, this book is for you.	2003-10-23
US	51388751	R3SZ8LAHP1L2ZZ	0802407129	530055791	Biblical Theology of the New Testament	Books	2	8	27	N	N	Skip this one. . .	I was very disappointed in Ryries book.  Although Biblical theology is not exegesis, it is built directly upon it.  Too bad that Ryrie makes little use of exegesis and the exegesis he does is rather superficial and shallow.<br />The heart of any worthwhile theology of the New Testament should be Christology.  The development of a sound Christology based on scholarly exegesis is the keystone to the development of Christian doctrine.  The best adjective to describe Ryries Christology is mediocre.  He deals with such subjects as the geology, birth, youth and baptism of Jesus, ignoring the best of modern exegesis.  For instance, during his discussion concerning the temptations of Jesus he states that this is proof that Jesus could not sin.  If Jesus could not sin, how can we find fellowship with Jesus as a man?  The very point that the Gospels and the writer of Hebrews make is that although Jesus was able to sin, he did not.<br />Also disappointing were Ryries treatment of the Christological titles of Jesus.  For instance, he gives only superficial exegetical and historical support to show that the title LORD may refer to Jesus as God.  The same analysis can be applied to his treatment of the title SON OF GOD.  Merely stating that at his trial those who witnessed understood that he was clearly claiming to be divine is not sufficient proof to convince the well-equipped Arian of the deity of Christ.<br />The role of women in the church, according to Ryrie, is nil. He has completely missed the point. He states that women are to be silent, not to talk nor function in any meaning capacity within the church.  He then proceeds to explain I Cor. 11:53 (prohibiting women from praying or prophesying without a veil) as Paul referring to public speaking and not praying or prophesizing within with the church- ho hum.  He ignores Acts 11:15, Philip and his four daughters who prophesied. In the same way, he fails to grasp the significance of Phoebe being called deacon in Rms. 16:11.He translates the word deacon as an office and not a service, except where it violates his presuppositions; therefore, if the word deacon is applied to a male he must be an official in the church, and if it is applied to a felmale, she is merely a servant.  Perhaps he should look up Galatians 3:28.<br />If you are looking for a good conservative theology of the New Testament, skip this one and read Ladds, A Theology of The New Testament.	2003-10-22
US	51388751	R39W15M1KJP5UZ	0802806805	123112859	A Theology of the New Testament	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Tired of liberal theology, read this book	If you want a great book on evangelical theology, this book is for you. Ladd states his reason for writing this book: If evangelical Protestants do not overcome their preoccupation with negative criticism of contemporary theological deviations at the expense of the construction of preferable alternatives to these, they will not be much of a doctrinal force in the decade ahead.<br />Ladd analyzes the presuppositions of liberal scholarship and shows how  they fail to hold up to the test of accuracy, reason and logic.  In his discussion of the historical Jesus and the Gospel of John,  he brings to light one of the most basic presuppositions of the critical New Testament scholars by pointing out that they assume that the mind of Jesus is so limited that any apparent contrast between John and the Synoptic gospels must be due to differences in the early Church. Ladd further states that: Every great thinker. . . will select what seems most congenial or useful out of what he has seen and heard.  Thus, Ladd diminishes the critical problem of the fourth gospel.  He also points out that liberal historians run into trouble because they have no category for the divine.  Thus, they approach the Scripture with anti-supernatural presuppositions that prejudice their study. The liberal scholar rejects anything supernatural for which there are no adequate historical explanations.<br />Did Ladd accomplish his objective? I think so.  The book has its weak points, but these may be due to limitations set by the publisher rather than Ladd's theology. His discussion on the historical Jesus and the book of Revelation are primes examples of this- they seemed rather shallow and flat. One feels that Ladd could have done a better job. He does acknowledge in the preface that his study on Revelation that it is lacking an abundance of material. Other than these setbacks, Ladd does an excellent job presenting the Gospel as a truthful and accurate representation of the life and ministry of Christ.	2003-10-21
US	51388751	R2HGZVE8L2ONG7	0679411585	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once...And Young: Ia Drang The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	5	6	6	N	N	You will want to read it more than once!	Perhaps a new modern classic on warfare, certainly one of the definitive books written about the Vietnam War.  Moore has given us both a military history of the battle of Ia Drang and a intensely personal story of those who served there.  It reads like a book written by a military man.  You will not find the beautiful prose of a William Manchester or Bruce Catton, but heart stopping action that will leave you breathless. <br />In this book you will see both the competence and courage of the ordinary grunt, and the incompetence and mistakes of their commanders.   This was not a strategic battle planned out in the corridors of the Pentagon, but, like the Battle of Gettysburg, it just happened. Thus, we have an unfolding of an unplanned battle that changed the course of the war.<br />Moore refuses to vilify the enemy.  Like any good solider, he has respect for the men who opposed him. They are portrayed as men of courage, insight and dedication. If you only had opportunity to read one chapter, read chapter 20: Death in the Tall Grass.  It tells of the story members of the 2nd Battalion surrounded in a field of grass, the terror of that fight is unmatched.	2003-10-20
US	51388751	R3LBYE36TS8RQI	0830719156	838342942	Churchquake: How the New Apostolic Reformation Is Shaking Up the Church As We Know It	Books	4	7	12	N	N	Insightful analysis of post-denominational Christianity	There is a churchquake shaking up the church as we know it- the New Apostolic Reformation.  C. Peter Wagner turns his prophetic analysis on this move of God that is changing the very face of Christianity.   Wagner begins with an insightful analysis of the decline of denominationalism. It is devastating.  Denominations look to contextual factors for their decline, sociological factors that the church cannot control; whereas Wagner attributes their decline to seven institutional factors well within their control to deal with.  Thus, rather than playing victim to the world around it, the church needs to look within itself for the cause of its decline in both numbers and influence.<br />Wagner believes that we live in a day that calls for new wineskins, that God is doing a new work, using new forms, to promulgate the gospel in the world today.  Unlike the Protestant Reformation of the 16th century, the new Apostolic Reformation is not so much a reformation of faith, but of practice.  Thus Wagner states that the current reformation is not so much against corruption and apostasy as it is against irrelevance. For those who may get hung up on Wagner's use of the word- Apostolic, a more palatable term for evangelicals to use to describe this move of God is post-denominational Christianity. <br />Of course using the term- Apostolic, is a cause of concern among many evangelicals and Wagner goes to great length to define his terms. Wagner sees three nuances that apply to the New Apostolic Reformation.  1.  New Testament Christianity.  Wagner notes that the reformers of the 16th century used the term apostolic to affirm their doctrine of sola scriptura.  Wagner believes that the new apostolic churches reflect more closely the New Testament style in terms of ministry than traditional churches. 2.  Priority Outreach to Pre-Christian Populations.  Wagner notes that the root for the word apostle means- the sent ones. Thus, apostolic churches focus on reaching non-Christian populations and are driven to make them disciples of Christ.  3.  The third and most controversial characteristic of the New Apostolic Reformation is the recognition of the gift and office of apostle in the church today. <br />Wagner defines the spiritual gift of an apostle as follows: The gift of apostle is the special ability that God gives to certain members of the body of Christ to assume and exercise general leadership over a number of churches with extraordinary authority in spiritual matters that is spontaneously recognized and appreciated by these churches.  Wagner sees the failure of denominations to recognize the gifts of apostles and prophets, while at the same time, recognizing the gifts of pastor, teacher and evangelist having more to do with entrenched ecclesiastical traditions than biblical exegesis.<br />Whether you are intrigued by the new Apostolic Reformation or see it as a cause of concern, you ought to read this book.  Wagner presents in in-depth, sound biblical argument for his thesis, while at the same time recognizing the weaknesses and faults of the New Apostolic Movement.	2003-10-17
US	51388751	R3HCFU0X8QI9WN	0914903713	121663588	Covenant Relationships: A More Excellent Way	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Must Reading For Every Pastor	Intrater deals with a subject keenly missing in most evangelical churches, the existence of covenant relationships.  Sadly, the church has borrowed the contractual model of relationship- what can you do for me- rather than the covenantal model of relationship- what can we do for this relationship.   This is most clearly seen in the relationship between the pastor and the church, the integration of new members and the adoption of the business model of polity in the local church.  Pastors are not called to lead, but hired to serve.  The assumption is that is they provide the goods and services the congregation wants.  Failure to do so results in termination, a sad fact reflected in the pastoral turn over rate in some churches that is less than three years. It is also seen in the churches abysmal record in assimilating new members; in many congregations it is clear who is on the inside and who is not.  Finally, it is seen in the polity of the local church were elections, votes and committees rule the roost. <br />The author firmly believes that Jesus is in the business of building a body, not building ministries.  Building ministry in itself is not bad, but if it is done at the expense of absence of relationship we have missed the point of the church.  The church is always about people first, ministry second. <br />The American church has, to a great extent, exchanged covenant relationship for feelings based relationship.  We stay in relationship as long as we feel good about it.  Intrater points our that covenant is not based on relationship but on commitment.  We are committed to one another no matter how we feel about it.  Thus, when the inevitable disagreements arise, when controversial decisions must be made, when sin occurs and church discipline must be exercised, covenant is the glue that holds the church together. Otherwise, everyone goes on his or her own way, seeking new relationships, new churches where they can feel good.  <br />This book is must reading for every pastor.  Establishing covenant relationship within the church lays the foundation for significant  growth, both numerical and spiritual.  Building covenant relationships allows team building to come to full fruition.  Intrater provides a thorough biblical analysis of covenant in a highly readable and useable form.  You will enjoy this book.	2003-10-17
US	51388751	R38E4D5U4N945V	0892214910	945644894	The Silent War: Ministering to Those Trapped in the Deception of Pornography	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A mans book written for men	Rogers trends  on ground that angels, and the rest of us, fear to go- ministering to those trapped in the deception of pornography.  It was not an easy book to read, I felt as if I need to wash my hands after doing so; yet, I think it is a necessary read.  Rogers gets past the fantasy, deception and lies of the sex trade and casts the light of truth on its effects on the men who are trapped by it, their wives and families who suffer because of it, and the woman who serve in it. <br />Rogers rejects any call to victimhood, men are responsible for their thoughts and their actions.  He writes: Though men are not able to control everything that comes in our minds, we are able to choose what we do with it.  Rogers reasons that succumbing to sexual sin is a choice; thus, getting out of it is also a choice.   <br />Particularly telling is Rogers investigation of the plight of the woman who work the sex trade.  It comes as no surprise that most of them were themselves victims of sexual abuse as children.  It is a business that robs woman of their dignity, and leaves them vulnerable to a cycle of abuse, disease and shame.<br />This is a man's book written for men.  It is a necessary read for men who may be struggling with pornography or other sexual sin.  With the prevalence of pornography, especially on the Internet, this book should prove a valuable resource in a mans effort to remain pure.	2003-10-16
US	51388751	R1E6XKZJIVK7KE	0785272682	764608133	The Beauty Of Spiritual Language	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Thoughtful addition to any library	The best thing about this book is the beautify of its prose.  Jack Hayford knows how to write.  This is a beautiful and compelling book about unveiling the mystery of speaking in tongues.  Unlike most books on the Pentecostal experience, Jack writes with intelligence, insight, a keen eye to the Scripture and the ability to deal with the tough issues.  The book is built on four premises: 1. Speaking with tongues is neither unbiblical nor outdated.  2.  Speaking with tongues is not a transcendental experience. 3.  Speaking with tongues is not a status symbol. 4.  Speaking with tongues is not proposed as a substitute for spiritual growth.<br />Earlier in my ministry, I was a big fan of both John McArthur and Hank Hanegraaff who take quite different positions on the tongues issue than Hayford.  While I remain a fan of John McArthur, Hank Hanegraaff seems to have a virulent and divisive attitude toward the tongues phenomena. If you have been influenced by the likes of Hanegraaff, no matter what your position is on the tongues issue, you need to read this book.  Hayford shows a depth of Christian maturity, scholarship and love that is often missing in charismatic debate.  He provides the reader with credible alternative to the dry, dusty, doctrinal approach of Hanegraaff.  <br />For those who could not care less about the theological debate and just want to learn more about the tongues phenomena, this book is for you, Hayfords solid exegesis may give you a new perspective on tongues.  This book would be a thoughtful addition to any personal library.	2003-10-16
US	51388751	R1GBYGQ6C7F8HT	0840734506	991716281	Father and Son: The Wound, the Healing, the Call to Manhood	Books	2	8	19	N	N	Every father a jerk, every son a victim?	Subtitled HEALING THE FATHER-WOUND IN MEN TODAY, Dalbey's premise is that the average man today does not reach out to his son or daughter because his own father never demonstrated how.  This lack of communication of feeling leaves what Dalbey calls a MASSIVE SNOW BALL OF PAIN that is ready to crush both father and child alike.  The answer, according to Dalbey is found in Jesus who came to restore relationship with the Father, to remind men abandoned and unfathered for generations that they are beloved sons. <br />Although I will take issue with Dalbey, he does put his finger on a problem in America, the absence of fathering.  This was demonstrated in our own church when doing a Alpha Group meeting which just happened to be on Fathers Day fully one half of our group did not want to share memories of their fathers, it was just too painful. <br />Yet, despite areas of brilliance, I had to force myself to finish this book.  Are all dads jerks and are all men wounded?  Let us suppose for a moment that all dads are jerks and all sons are wounded, does it necessary follow that this generational curse will be passed on unchecked?  Can some manly guy rise up through the power of the Holy Spirit, reject the cult of victimhood and be the man and the father God meant him to be?  Robert Hicks critiques Dalbeys cult of victimhood in his book THE MASCULINE JOURNEY: I am not so sure that all men are lost in the male experience, but I do know that many men are for the first time becoming more aware of their woundedness they have experienced in jobs, failed marriages, addictions and their own families of origin.  Contrary to Dalbey, Hicks sees men on a masculine journey from The Noble Savage to The Fulfilled male.  <br />I really do not see how crying into our hankies, beating drums,and lamenting our woundedness is going to make us better men.  Perhaps John Wayne was right:  Stand up, act like a man.	2003-10-16
US	51388751	R2Y1VCGDDXMBZ6	0891093036	472722132	How to Lead Small Groups (LifeChange)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	One of the best I have found!	McBride has written one of the most effective and useful books on small groups I have read; it is compact and easy to use.  The chapter divisions make for quick review or if problem solving if you are already leading a small group.  <P>Small groups are easier said than done.  Often times, they are they seem to meet to meet without any defining purpose or covenant.  McBride leads us pass the Bible study model, into building covenant groups of friendship and caring. McBride recognizes the biblical mandate to care for one another and how difficult that is to do in the typical evangelical church service- small groups are a very effective way in fulfilling that mandate.<P>The role of leadership is thoroughly discussed.  The idea that small groups can be leaderless, or that leadership can be rotated amongst the group is soundly dismissed.  Although he does not quote Maxwells dictum, it runs throughout his discussions on leadership: Everything rises or falls on leadership. <P>Any weaknesses? Not really.  The author readily admits his fondness for lists.  Do not get me wrong, I would rather read a list than a paragraph any day, but he borders on listmania.  If you are considering establishing small groups in your church this book is must reading.	2003-10-16
US	51388751	R2KK5L4O98UQHA	083440060X	67097749	Alexander Campbell, preacher of reform and reformer of preaching	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Ho, Hum	Fitch spends much time discussing the distinction made by Alexander Campbell between preaching and teaching.  The root of this endeavor is found within Campbells belief that biblical things should be called by biblical names and that these names should be defined within the biblical use and not by their common usage. Preaching, therefore, is  defined as proclaiming  the gospel as defined in I Corinthians 15:3-4 to unbelievers.  Teachers, on the other hand, taught the social, oral and ethical teachings of the New Testament to the church.<br />The dichotomy between preaching and teaching is not as sharp as Campbell would have us suppose.  Preaching the gospel presupposes that people have an elementary knowledge of God.  When this knowledge is missing it must be taught.  It also must be remembered that almost all the preaching recorded in the New Testament was directed to Jews or God-fearers. Thus, in Acts 17 Paul leaves the synagogue and God-fearing Gentiles to speak to the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers Paul must introduce the Unknown God (teach) before he can preach the gospel.  There is also another consideration.  All Christian morality and ethics are based upon the Gospel.  It is doubtful that morality preached without the gospel can be Christian.  C.S. Lewis noted that there is nothing unique about Christian morality- parallels to the Sermon on the Mount may be found in Hindu, Buddhist, Jewish and Islamic teachings.  The unique aspect of Christian morality is the resurrection of Christ.  <br />Campbell of course, was a man of his time. His scholarship although brilliant was limited to the sub-total  of nineteenth century scholarship. Campbell believed that there are three offices in the church, namely: evangelists, bishops and deacons.  (Um, is office a New Testament word?).  In addition to these offices there were prophets and apostles whose office and function were considered by Campbell as extraordinarily for the setting of the Christian institution.  Mr. Fitch agrees with this view despite the findings of modern scholarship.  Fitch also identifies the prophets as the Old Testament prophets.  I wonder how he would square this with I Cor. 12:28 which identifies prophets as being within the church?	2003-10-11
US	51388751	R1SSEN8UVDL7S2	0844660337	61227043	Meaning of Revelation	Books	3	3	9	N	N	For Theological Eggheads Only	Niebuhr hardly leaves a stone unturned in his search for the meaning of revelation. He provides an expanded view of revelation that is in the most part, acceptable.  This book did present me with one problem- I am in a dilemma whether to shelve it among my political science books or amongst my theology books.  I have to admit that the most fascinating aspect of this book was Niebuhrs critique of Marxist dialectical concept of history.<br />Niebuhr bases his study of revelation in history; the Christian faith is a historical faith and unless faith is grounded in history it cannot survive.  Yet, being very careful, Niebuhr distinguishes revelation from history, for history is usually the history of injustice and brutality and not of God.  This distinction separates Niebuhr from the old liberals and firmly grounds his faith in God and not in man. It seems that he is somewhat of an existentialist as seen by his discussion of inner and outer history. External history deals with objects and internal history deals with subjects.  Revelation, according to Niebuhr falls into the category of inner history because it is a history that happens to us.  This inner history is verifiable by the community; it is history as recorded not by the scientist, but by the poet.<br />Due to the existential character of revelation, Niebuhr states that revelation cannot be equated with Scripture, the only way that Scripture becomes revelatory is when men participate in the same spiritual history out of which the word came, it is only when we make the history of Jesus our history that the history of the Bible becomes revelation.<br />Niebuhr is justified in reacting against the objectifying and solidifying of revelation, yet, he goes to such extremes that, in the end, he denies God the power to reveal Himself. He does not believe that revelation includes such propositions that Jesus was born of a virgin, the Scriptures are inerrant, and history is catastrophic.  In the end, Niebuhr denies the living God to act in history making his naturalistic presuppositions serve as the norm for the whole historical process.	2003-10-11
US	51388751	R8BVFTBYQS9O6	0440304245	477593969	American Caesar	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Magnificant Biography	One wonders if American society would tolerate, let alone produce, another MacArthur.  Bigger than life, vain and conceited, this American Caesar understood power and how to use it.  He was a soldier, a politician and an egomaniac. In an age of political correctness where sensitivity is valued over leadership men like MacArthur are not well tolerated.  Manchesters superb biography of MacArthur shows us that great men often have great flaws, a fact that many today are not willing to accept.  <br />Like any great biography this is a story of not only a man, but of the times he lived in.  Manchester takes us back to frontier army post where MacArthur was born in 1880 and with a lucid style and follows his stunning career until his death in 1964.  What is especially interesting is MacArthurs understanding of drama and the power of the press which he used with great efficiency.  Unlike George Marshall, Douglas MacArthur was much more of a political general going none-to-nose with both Roosevelt and Truman.<br />If you are not familiar with General MacAuthur, this book will introduce you to perhaps the greatest soldier-statesman his country has produced.	2003-10-01
US	51388751	RK45JV81IPTXK	0375756450	642527170	Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan	Books	1	5	10	N	N	Reagan deserved better than this	After hearing Edmund Morris elegance on TV as he promoted his book, I could not wait to read it.  I expected great biography, what I got was a hodgepodge of fiction, biography, and Morris endless drivel about his childhood.  I never knew where history stopped and fiction began.  <br />I would tell myself over and over again: Surely, this book is going to get better.  It was a vain wish.  After reading only 200 of the nearly 700 pages, I put it down, never to pick it up again.  Ronald Reagan deserved better than this.	2003-10-01
US	51388751	R3468X30O1VII6	0316831417	560018474	Khrushchev Remembers: The Last Testament (Illustrated)	Books	4	16	24	N	N	An interesting read	As a child growing up during the Cold War who as a child participated in air-raid drills in grade-school, my memories of Khrushchev were formed by flickering images on a black and white TV where this plump little man banged his shoe on the podium and cried out: We will bury you!  It was frightening.  As children, we would sing this ditty to the tune of Whistle While You Work: Whistle while you work, Khrushchev is a jerk; Eisenhower has the power to put him out of work!<br />Years later I was told this infamous line should have been translated: We will overcome you.  So much for Cold War politics.  Then as a young man in college I heard that Khrushchev had written an autobiography and I was eager to read it. I was not disappointed; it gives a decidedly Russian perspective on history of the Soviet Union.  For instance, the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact of 1939, (Stalins anti-aggression pact with Hitler) Khrushchev saw as an ploy to delay the inevitable war with Germany until Russia was better prepared for war. Although earlier in the book Khrushchev dealt with the purges of the 1930's, he does not mention the direct relationship between Stalin's unpreparedness for war and the slaughter of the officer corps during the 1930s.<br />It is ironic that Khrushchevs last chapter is entitled, Defending the Socialist Paradise.  What he does not address is that this paradise was held together by terror. True, he does acknowledge the use of terror especially in Stalins reign and the rise and fall of Beria, but it is only through terror and compulsion that communism is able to work.  Even then, it is incapable of sustaining itself economically.  The socialist workers paradise has left Russian and eastern Europe in an economic and environmental wasteland.  But then, Western socialist are unperturbed.  They believe that they can do it better than Stalin and Khrushchev.  What these western socialists do not realize is that the only way a communist state can deliver its promises is throughcompulsion.  And when people resist, they must be forced to comply.  If it takes murder, genocide, and the destruction of a people and their culture to establish the socialist workers paradise, that is the price socialist are willing to pay.  <br />We cannot help but like Khrushchev after reading this book, but the reader must remember that he was a part of a system that killed millions of their own citizens, occupied eastern Europe for over fifty years and failed miserably in the end.	2003-09-27
US	51388751	R21BVDHLPCV0SF	0586068899	587322766	Life and Death of Lenin	Books	5	9	18	N	N	Limp-wristed Liberals Need to Read This Book!	Written at the height of the Cold War, Payne delivers an excellent biography of Lenin- the author recognizes him for who he was, a man who changed the course of world history.  Without Lenin there would have been no Communist Revolution and the course of the twentieth century would have been far different from what we know today.<br />Although I read this book over fifteen years ago, it still is given a prominent place of display in my personal library.  It helped format my understanding of the Russian Revolution and the birth of communism. Payne avoids the rhetoric of the Cold War giving us a dispassionate picture of a man who changed history.<br />This book gives the reader an understanding of modern terrorism, where it came from and how effective it is.  The first chapter deals with a forgotten revolutionary by the name of Sergey Genadievich Nechayev, a nineteenth-century Russian who wrote a pamphlet, The Revolutionary Catechism which precepts are being used today by Islamic terrorist.<br />Although Communism has been assigned to the dustbin of history, this book will give you insight into the mind of a terrorist, how terrorism works and how a weak and ineffective state will inevitably fall to a handful of dedicated revolutionaries.  Limp wristed liberals who think that all the United States needs to do is to apologize for our wealth and power, disarm and try to be nice, need to read this book.  But then, that would assume that they had the logic and intellect to realize that there really is evil in the world and that a small dedicated group of revolutionaries who are bent on destroying our culture can and will succeed unless we defeat them.	2003-09-27
US	51388751	RMAP37SWBTKVV	0802493815	115983766	What demons can do to saints	Books	2	35	42	N	N	I was hoping for better than this	I do not really know what to think of this book.  After reading Mr. Unger's first book Biblical Demonology I was looking forward to seeing how his understanding of demonology had matured and changed.  This book reflects Unger's growing understanding that demonic influence is not just an issue for missionaries in pagan lands, but also a concern for pastors who minister in western culture as well. <br />Unger was not entirely able to abandon his thesis that Christianizing influence of western civilization has hindered or prevented demonization in the west (pg. 99).  Perhaps so, but with the degradation of our society since Mr. Unger's death, the rise of the New Paganism, the collapse of any concept of right or wrong, and the acceptance of the occult, pornography and sexual depravity, any insular protection the west has enjoyed seems to be vanishing. <br />Unlike his first book,  What Demons Can Do to Saints is filled with anecdotal accounts of demonization. This is both a strength and weakness.  Certainly, if application is going to be made these accounts help us understand what demonization is, how people succumb to it and what one needs to do to overcome it.  There are, however, some glaring weaknesses. It has been years since I have heard a evangelical author states that speaking in tongues is demonic.  Not only once, but  repeatedly Unger warns the reader that the charismatic movement is inspired by, and controlled by demons.  Granted, when he wrote this book, the charismatic movement was young and mistakes and excesses were made.  Certainly, the claim by charismatics that one must be baptized in the Holy Spirit (i.e., speaking in tongues) in order to be saved cannot be supported by Scripture; but giving anecdotal evidence that people who seek deeper spiritual experiences by seeking the gift of tongues are opening themselves to demonization is ludicrous. <br />Are you ready for one more weird idea?  One has to give Unger credit for dealing with a very difficult theological problem, but I do not know what to think of his answer.  He seems to be stating that man was created to oppose and defeat Satan: to accomplish it (isolating sin and sinners) He (God) created man upon the earth.  This planet was selected to be man's abode, evidently because sin began here in connection with the fall of Satan and the angels.  <br />One can only conclude that if it was not for Satan's disobedience and the entrance of sin, that man would not have been created.  Despite come glaring weaknesses, Dr. Unger is to be commended for writing this book and it is worth the read, especially helpful was the last chapter, Deliverance from Demon Power.	2003-09-26
US	51388751	R1SBKS3LQ7KSAC	0785274316	890160557	The 21 Irrefutable Laws of Leadership: Follow Them and People Will Follow You	Books	4	3	3	N	N	What are these guys talking about? Its a good book!	OK, I have to admit it. I am a Maxwell fan.  I just like his stuff.  If you had to read just one Maxwell book read this one. In it John synthesizes his lifetime of teaching and leadership into twenty-one irrefutable laws of leadership. For diehard Maxwell fans, this book is not going to tell you anything you do not already know, but it serves are a great reminder of those principles that separate successful leaders from the also-rans.<br />To be sure, there are some who see such works on leadership as circumventing the leading and power of the Holy Spirit, but they are wrong.  Good leadership cannot make up for the lack of spiritual depth, but put the two together- leadership and spiritual depth and you have an unstoppable situation.	2003-09-14
US	51388751	R2J2X9AOMWR9WY	0785274308	425047162	Failing Forward: Turning Mistakes Into Stepping Stones for Success	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An Encouraging Read	Subtitled - turning Mistakes Into Stepping Stones for Success- is a delightful and compelling read. Maxwell realizes that leadership involves taking risks, and taking risks will inevitably involve experiencing failure.  The difference between successful leaders and the also rans, is that failure is never final for those who succeed.<br />There is really nothing new in this book.  Each of us has probably been told a hundred times that failure is never final; the only problem is that we really do not believe it. The fear of failure can be paralyzing; and once experienced, it can destroy us.  That is why Maxwells approach is so effective, the takes actual case studies of men and women who experienced failure and demonstrates how they were able to turn it around into success.<br />I would make this required reading in every Bible College and seminary.  Too many pastors believe that failure is a sign that they had missed the will of God.  So fearful are they of missing Gods will, that they will only move ahead if they are guaranteed of success.  What the church needs is more magnificent failures in the pulpit.	2003-09-14
US	51388751	R2R7AOOB8K7JBP	0805418458	534233445	Spiritual Leadership: Moving People on to God's Agenda	Books	4	28	32	N	N	Must Reading for Novice Preachers	I am a big fan of Blackabys Experiencing God and was looking forward to reading his book on Spiritual Leadership.  It was not what I expected.  It is an excellent book on leadership, but it is more of a primer novice for leaders than a book for experienced leaders who want to sharpen their leadership skills and character.  <br />But as a primer, it is excellent. Blackaby leads the reader though a list of topics to equip pastors to be spiritual leaders. It runs the gauntlet from The Leaders Challenge to The Leader's Pitfalls and just about everything in between. Like Experiencing God, the Blackabys intersperse their personal experiences with Spiritual Leadership as application.<br />What makes this book unique is Blackabys emphasis on the spiritual part of leadership. They reject the influence of business models of leadership, specially Collins and Porras advice in Built to Last (BEHAGs - Big Hairy Audacious Goals) and urge the reader to recognize the work of God in the world and to join God in his work.<br />The authors discussion on vision gives the reader an example of how the Blackabys view spiritual leadership.  They criticize leaders who try to get people to buy into their vision.  Spiritual leaders should not sell vision, they say; rather, they share what God has revealed to them and trust that the Holy Spirit will confirm that same vision in the hearts of their people.  So the job of the leader is to bring the people face to face with God so they can hear from God directly and not through the leader.  The Blackabys, however, fail to adequately inform the pastor how to do this.  The obvious consequence of this kind of vision casting is that pastors with weak leadership skills would observe where God is at work, ineffectively communicate that vision to their congregations, meet internal resistance, and then conclude that this must not be where God is leading them. <br />For instance, the Blackabys are Baptist.  The averaged Baptist pastor stays in his church for only about 2.5 years.  There is a reason for this. Although most Baptist churches are board led, they are for all intents and purposes congregational in their polity.  Thus, in many churches, even the most inane proposal must be but through a relentless series of committees and votes.  This kind of governance does not tolerate strong leadership very well. If the pastor has a vision from God, he must communicate that vision and trust that the Holy Spirit will confirm it in the hearts of a committee system.  This assumes that everyone on all those board and committees is listening to God and is seeking God.  In reality, the pastor gets something else; he gets an agenda that is set by the least spiritual, most obstinate member of the congregation.  <br />There is an ethereal quality about leadership that many good leaders do not understand.  They have it and they assume that the rest of us, if we just do what they do, will have it.  But leadership is much more difficult than this.  In this regard, John Maxwell, Oswald Sanders and Bill Hull do a much better job equipping pastors to be leaders.  It is a good book, but my fear is that weak, timid leaders will use it as an excuse to do nothing.	2003-09-14
US	51388751	R1M1VNHLP153CV	0310211271	112141862	Surprised by the Power of the Spirit	Books	5	34	40	N	N	If you are an evangelical, read this book	No one can surpass Jack Deere in his exegesis of biblical text.  Written in a highly readable style Surprised by the Power of the Spirit is investigation of how God speaks and heals today.  Unlike many charismatic writers,  Deere rejects the anecdotal approach to proving the power of God.  Although Deere punctuates his book with anecdotal stories, he pursues a relentless investigation of the Scripture and with lawyer like skill, deals with objections with a keen wit.  Case in point:  When Deere talks about establishment of a healing ministry within the local church, he points out that the most common objection is not theological, but emotional- people worry how they will look if they pray for the sick and those prayers are unanswered.  Deere retorts:  Worrying about how we look when we pray for the sick is not a very effective way of getting our prayers answered.  Then, he follows up with an exposition of Scripture, followed by his personal experience. It is a very effective way of communication. <br />I would be hard pressed to find fault with this book without resorting to theological nit picking; it is simply that good.  If you have serious questions about the efficacious of gifts of healing in the contemporary church, read this book.  Deere has a way of dealing with the questions, fears and misunderstandings we may have about the power of the Holy Spirit. His humor and ability to laugh at himself is appealing.  If you are a serious Bible student who has not been presented a serious case for discovering how God speaks and heals to day, this is the book for you.	2003-09-14
US	51388751	R1QZXGIADSJL58	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	5	15	24	N	N	Dark side of religion or of man?	It is not an easy read.  No, it is not a difficult book technically, but it deals with fanaticism so intense and so perverse that makes one wonder of what darkness humans are capable. As a Christian pastor this book particularly interested me.  Mormonism has always intrigued me especially in their recent attempts to portray themselves within the mainstream of Christian thought.  As the book clearly demonstrates, they have unique teachings and beliefs that separate them widely from biblical Christianity.<br />The book itself is wonderful and I highly recommend it.  But as a pastor, I would like to take issue with two statements the author makes.  In doing so, I hope I am not straining at theological nats, rather, I hope my comments transcend theology to the very nature of man. <br />The author states that Under the Banner of Heaven is a look at the dark side of religion.  He goes on to mention that all faiths, Moslem, Hindu, Buddhist as well as main stream Christianity have a dark side, that if not kept under control is capable of great barbarism and cruelty.  Any student of history can attest to this, my objection, however, is that the problem is not a dark side of religion, but the dark side of man.  Man, himself, is capable of great cruelty.  Yes, man has used religion to justify genocide, but one cannot jump to the conclusion that it is the religion that compels man to violence.  Religion is merely the tool that man uses to justify his cruelty.  <br />Since the French revolution, modern man has the tendency to reject religion as superstition (the opiate of the people) and has deified reason and science as the new gods.  Modern man believes that the answer to lifes ultimate questions can be found in technology and science.  The only problem is, that science and technology has not brought about the utopian society that Western man has hoped for, instead, it has brought barbarism and death on a scale undreamed of in centuries past.  In the twentieth century alone, millions upon millions have perished on the altar of the dialectical materialism of Karl Marx and the National Socialism of Hitler and his ilk. <br />It is not the dark side of religion that drives man to barbarism; it is the dark side of man.  Perhaps this phenomenon can be described by the word- idealism. The idealist believes that he has the answer for what troubles man, i.e., religion, communism, National Socialism, environmentalism, etc., and will stop at nothing, even the destruction of property and murder to bring about his utopian paradise. In killing, he thinks he is saving. In destroying, he thinks he is building. <br />My second observation is that faith and reason are not as diametrically opposed as the author repeated infers.  Yes, one cannot reasonably believe the history of the early Americas, as set forth in the book of Mormon- there simply is not one scintilla of evidence to support it as the author demonstrated.  No wonder in the front plate of every Book of the Mormon published there is an appeal to the burning in the bosom as evidence that the book if true.  The New Testament authors, however, never use such subjective criterion when they attempt to persuade their audiences of the truthfulness of the resurrection of Jesus- they always appeal to the witnesses who saw the risen Christ and who ate and drank with him after he was raised from the dead.  Yes, the Christian believer must accept the resurrection of Christ by faith, but it is a faith that is based on reasonable evidence, the testimony of witnesses who ate and drank with the risen Christ.<br />Sorry for the sermon, I just could not help myself.  Now back to the book- read it.  It will give you insight to the Mormon Church as well as the dark side of man.	2003-09-13
US	51388751	ROPY66DZKDY3S	0310233089	479876779	The Connecting Church	Books	5	5	5	N	N	This is one intriguing book	This is one intriguing book and a must read for every pastor who senses that something is missing in the pastoral rat race.  Randy Frazee makes a pervasive case for re-inventing the church through the establishment of building authentic community. Over the years, various authors (such as Rutzs The Open Church) have attempted to rediscover the vital community of the New Testament Church, but for the most part, their attempts seem to be utopian and impractical.  Frazee, with some reservations, seems to have hit the proverbial nail right on the head.<br />Throughout the book we are confronted with Bob and Karen Johnson, a fictional couple representing the suburbanite lost in the rat race of life.  As we meet the couple, Frazee explains what the church must do to establish authentic community.  Doing so is easier said than done.  Much of what the church claims to be community is nothing more than masked American individualism.  <br />Frazee points out that true community requires five things: an authority structure, thus, there must be a leader who knows where the church is going and how to get there.  Second, the church needs true accountability.  Much of what the church passes off as accountability today is nothing but disclosure that does not allow others to speak into one's life.  Third, the establishment of traditions. Fourth, the establishment of standards without imposing legalism, and finally a common mission.<br />As I read this book, I could not help but see how the new breed of postmodern churches uses these five points to build community.  Clearly, most traditional and contemporary churches will have to make some radical changes in how they do business if they are going to build the kind of community that Frazee advocates.  <br />There were some unanswered questions.  Clearly, Randy's church Pantego Bible Church with its seventy-six acre site has resources that most churches can only dream about.  If I remember correctly, Randy had the help of Larry Crabb, George Gallup and Dallas Willard in formatting their changes.  Most pastors can only dream of having that kind of help in restructuring a church.  But I would like to know, how is it going?  How successful have they been?  Exactly how do they measure success?<br />Despite these questions, I plan on implementing that kind of community. But as a pastor of a small rural church, we live in a different world.  My urban friends are always shocked as we walk down Main Street when they visit, it seems like we know everybody.  We can't walk two blocks without running into two or three people we know.  Yet, the forces that destroy community are at work in small town America.  I am planning on getting a head start on maintaining and building community by trying to implement the Connecting Church.	2003-09-12
US	51388751	R3FOIGCY4RG3IA	0800785991	137503942	The Practice of the Presence of God	Books	5	53	57	N	N	A Timeless Classic	This beautiful gem of a book contains the conversations, letters, spiritual maxims and a brief biography of a seventeenth century French monk, Brother Lawrence. Although almost three hundred years old, this book is a timeless classic. It portrays the lifes journey of Brother Lawrence from a solider to a man of God. It chronicles his struggle to accept the grace of God and then tells of his life as he strove to live in the presence of God. One of my favorite chapters is his letter to a soldier.  It is interesting that as a former solider he does not contemn the violence of a soldiers profession; rather, he encouraged the young man to live a Godly life.<br />Repeatedly, Brother Lawrence stresses that the presence of God can only be maintained by heart and love, rather than my understanding and speech.  Thus, he would rather mediate on the truth and character of God than spend time in deep exegetical study.  Tozer echoed the same though three hundred years later when he stated that the evangelical church is sacrificing a relationship with God for orthodoxy.  Like Richard Foster, who wrote Celebration of Discipline,  Lawrence distinguished between mediation and study. One needs to slow down and be with God.<br />This book really helped me stop the academic rat race and slow down to spend time in communion with God and my fellow man. Trained in a rational academic environment, it is all to easy for me to spend my time in exegetical study getting to know about God rather than spending time in the Word getting to know God.  The other Lord's Day, I came to the church building early to practice my sermon, only to discover that the cleaning crew failed to their jobs. Instead of prayer and preaching, I spent the next two hours cleaning toilets and washing glass doors. I remembered Brother Lawrences admonition that he never grew tired of doing the smallest things for God. Instead of becoming angry, I was able to maintain a joyful attitude that stayed with me throughout the morning services.ning services.	2003-09-10
US	51388751	R8HUXQKWZPLUL	0830715924	675466178	Turnaround Churches: How to Overcome Barriers to Growth and Bring New Life to an Established Church	Books	5	9	9	N	N	It helped turn around my church!	This is one of the most intriguing, yet, depressing books I have ever read. On one hand Barna says that there is hope for the 85% of American Churches that have stagnated or are in the process of decline- they can be turned around.  Based on actual case studies, Barna outlines the principles of renewal; yet, just when we can see ourselves leading our churches out of the spiritual doldrums Barna drops the other shoe.  Turning around a church is an extraordinary difficult task that only a few pastors are capable of doing.  Perhaps the most discouraging word was that this was a young mans job, that is, for men under the age of forty-five.<br />I appreciate the authors insight that it takes a strong, hardworking leader to run around a church. A forty-hour workweek will not do.  Barna stresses that spiritual growth must be based on spiritual things and not just on the strength of men, a foundation of prayer is a must for a turn around church.  Without prayer we are relaying on the strength of men.  We need to bring people into a tighter bond with God, a process that is very uncomfortable for most people.<br />Here are some insights: Renewal takes a long-term commitment; one does not turn a church around in a year or two- it is a process that may take five or six years.  There is an absolute need to seize the moment. Barna counsels pastors to make significant changes the first year of their ministry.  To wait a year or two to earn how the church operates (advice given by almost every seminary and Bible college) will almost guarantee failure in the renewal process.  Delay will only allow internal resistance to develop.   Finally, he says that renewal pastors do not wait for a consensus before attempting change they will never get it.  Consensus is the abdication of leadership.<br />If you are a senior pastor and have the courage to attempt to turn around your church, read this book.	2003-09-10
US	51388751	R1HXSV7G9UYC1T	0891099409	220283574	The Pursuit of Holiness	Books	3	34	65	N	N	Uninspiring	In this brief book Jerry Bridges urges Christian to purse holy lives. He laments that for many evangelicals personal holiness is seen as an impossible achievement. Bridges tries to walk the line between obedience to God on one hand, and legalism on the other. He does this by distinguishing between his private struggles with sin (lust, ice cream, television, etc.) and the absolutes dictated by Scripture.<br />Unfortunately, this book is like almost every Navigator book I have read. It is written for a Sunday School audience and often sounds like a commercial for other Navigator material  I read this book just after finishing Richard Fosters Celebration of Discipline and I could not help but compare the two books.  Foster was a breath of fresh air, inspiring me to purse the Godly life; whereas Bridges proved to be uninspiring. What is lacking is the joy of the Christian life.  It is not until the last chapter that the author develops the concept of Christian joy, even then, it sounds as if the only joy we are going to find the joy in the midst of suffering.  Foster, on the other hand sees the joy of the Christian life at every turn.  <br />Bridges has an inadequate view of the Holy Spirit, almost equating the leading of the Holy Spirit with Bible study.  True, the Word is the sword of the Spirit, but I enjoyed Fosters charismatic emphasis on the heading of the Holy Spirit.  Does Bridges have any fun in his life? Would he listen to Rock n Roll music?  Reading his book reminded me of Christians weddings- Boring! Boring! Boring! Everyone is afraid to have a good time lest someone be offended.  I did not like this book.  Other than the fact there are some good sermons in this book it did not provide any real insight that helped by ministry.	2003-09-10
US	51388751	R4BBF2ZU84VPJ	0842369082	298399623	A Tale of three Kings: A Study in Brokenness	Books	5	34	40	N	N	I found this book intriguing.	This book is must reading for every church leader. It is a study of the use and misuse of authority. In it, Edwards examines the lives of King Saul who demanded allegiance and held onto power at all cost; the life of King David who would not pursue power or hold onto it by force even when faced with rebellion; and David?s son, Absalom, the man who would become king by leading a rebellion.  <br />The book was written especially to address the problem of submission and authority in the modern church. An underlying theme of this magnificent tale is that one cannot know for certain who are anointed by God and who are not; whom God has blessed and whom He as not.  True leaders often make mistakes and pretenders to the crown can often look Godly; therefore, we should be very careful about passing judgment on our leaders.<br />These three simple stories convey more meaning and impact than a scholarly tome on authority.  Edwards follows the example set by Jesus by telling simple stories to convey deep theological truths. His insight that leadership, even Godly leadership, is inherently flawed because God works through flawed people is excellent. Also worthy of note is the insight not to rush to judgment when condemning authority. The message needs to be heard in our impatient culture.  Edwards notes that men who thought they were doing the will of God murdered both Jesus and Stephen. <br />There are two significant weaknesses in this book.. First, the story is incomplete.  It ends with David retreating from Jerusalem with Absalom holding power.  Edwards fails to tell us that the story really ends with David doing battle with the rebels and Absaloms subsequent death. David did fight for his throne.  Second, we live in an age where everyone believes they have the inherent right to question authority.  Edwards does not address the need to teach on authority and submission as contrasted with demanding it. Boomers and Xers often have no idea of submission.  Even many who were born before World War II do not understand the biblical concept of authority; like Korah who rebelled against Moses, they hold to a democratic model of authority. If we do not each our people the biblical concepts of authority and submission, how will they learn?<br />This book is a sobering reminder that all church polity is ultimately congregational. Leaders cannot demand the allegiance of their people. If my people choose not to follow my leadership by withdrawing their attendance, offerings and service, I will fail as a leader. I was especially helped by Edwards observation that all kings have their critics. Leaders are flawed vessels of God?s anointing. Rebels may promise the world, but they can only deliver it with the cooperation of the people. If the people grow tired, wither the rebels dream may fail, or a dictatorship must be established.  <br />Again, this book is must reading for all church leaders.  As a political science major, B.S. University of Oregon, 1973, I found this book intriguing.	2003-09-10
US	51388751	R30TXXQ55U6S8H	0891096175	156980676	Trusting God: Even When Life Hurts	Books	5	92	97	N	N	Truely a great book	This is the most comprehensive and best of the three Bridges books I have read. The authors purpose is two-fold.  First, he wants the reader to glorify God by acknowledging God's sovereignty and goodness in the midst of tragedy. Second, he wants to encourage God's people by showing that God is in control of our lives.  Bridges purpose is limited. It is not a theological exploration into the origin of pain and suffering, but a book to help the reader deal with pain and suffering on a level of faith, of trusting in God that things do not just happen.<br />Although evangelical Christians often give lip service to the sovereignty of God, many are for all practical purposes are Christian deists. They see God as being too distant our unable to intervene in times of trouble. I appreciate that Bridges does not duck the tough issues. He refuses to wrap up all the theological loose ends when discussing the sovereignty of God.  Like Tozer, he recognizes that there are some issues to which there are no neat and tidy answers.  Unlike many other authors who write on this subject, he does not slavishly follow C.S. Lewis The Problem of Pain.  It is refreshing to read a fresh perspective on the subject rather than merely hearing Lewis arguments parroted again.<br />Although I was very impressed with the book, there were a few areas that caught my attention. Bridges does not deal comprehensively with the idea of spiritual warfare.  I would have also liked to see a fuller discussion on the passive will of God.  In fact, it is not mentioned in the first one hundred pages or so. It would have been good to have a fuller discussion of the alternative views of God's sovereignty, but then, that would have doubled or tripled the lengthy of the book.<br />This is truly a great book. I could hardly put it down, one of the best I have read on the providence and sovereignty of God. I would also recommend Jack Contrell's volume, What the Bible Says About God the Ruler, College Press, 1884.  Although not a Calvinist, Contrell writes one of the most persuasive arguments for the sovereignty of God I have read. He also explores alternative views of sovereignty (pagan, existential, deists, etc.) and their weaknesses.	2003-09-10
US	51388751	R25XGAKI5YAG12	0830819711	895440567	Too Busy Not to Pray: Slowing Down to Be With God : Including Questions for Reflection and Discussion	Books	5	9	12	N	N	It will change your prayer life	It is Hybells thesis that prayer is unnatural for man whose life has been shaped by the rules of self-reliance. Yet, despite this dependence on self, most people pray. Prayer, Hybells states, is the most intimate form of communication we have with God and is essential to receiving His prevailing power in our lives.<br />I like that his book is biblically based.  Hybells develops his arguments from the actual text of Scripture, stating that a prayer warrior is someone who is convinced that God is omnipotent and is able to intervene in the lives of his people.  This book is far more pragmatic, than theological.  Hybells gentle humor is a refreshing change and a wonderful tool to capture the readers attention.  <br />Like most of Hybells earlier books, it was predictable-every chapter follows the same format. One gets the impression we are reading a sermon series; but despite this one failing, it is one of the most practical book on how to develop one's prayer life I have read.	2003-09-10
US	51388751	R2CALEJGIV6LX5	0887306012	457766044	Managing the Non-Profit Organization: Principles and Practices	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Great Book of Leaders of NonProfits	This delightful book is a collection of essays and interviews by Peter Drucker concerning the management, mission, performance strategies, people development and leadership development of the non-profit organization. The format of essay and interview gives the reader not only the wisdom of Druckers insights, but also the wisdom and practical applications of those who manage non-profits organizations. I am especially appreciative that Drucker did not ignore the church in this book; his insights to church management are worth the price of this book.<br />I have heard of this sage of business and economics for years, but have never had the privilege of reading one of his books.  His advice is born out of years of experience in the business community. He has a knack to communicate complex ideas with simple words. The fact that his book was not especially written for churches (although it does not ignore them) is one of its greatest strengths for the pastor. It demonstrates that service is service; mission is mission; and leadership is leadership, no matter what the nature of the non-profit is.  As I looked at the examples given in the text I can see the strength and weaknesses of the church.  <br />It is a book full of helpful advice.  Some of Druckers insights are: the importance of mission over natural charisma; one does not have to be a dynamic leader to do great things.  It is important to set high standards for your people to aim at.  Good intentions are not enough; one needs a plan, marketing, people and money to get good results.  Leadership takes courage.  Good ideas are a dime a dozen; we need people with ability and willingness to get results.  It is important that we see the community and not church members as our consumer base.  Change takes time, so be patient.<br />It's a great book for any leader of any non-profit.	2003-09-09
US	51388751	RCY38K9PK9V3R	0805460616	997551769	The Confident Leader: Getting a Good Start As a Christian Minister	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great Help for Young Pastors	This book is promoted as the text book that reads like a novel.  It certainly is an interesting format for a text book. It is specially designed to help young pastors just out of seminary get off to a good start. The book follows the first year of ministry of the fictional Jim Stafford as an associate pastor in a mid-sized church.  The Confident Leader covers a wise range of areas from goal planning to sermon preparation as well as the personal dangers of overwork and emotional attachments to the opposite sex.<br />Genz presents a massive amount of material in a few hundred pages. As I began to read this book  it seemed as if the author was only going to give us simplistic, sugar coated advice.  I kept saying to myself, Sure, that will only work out in dream land! As the plot thickened complications set in and the story took a turn towards reality. It is extraordinary well organized and easy to understand.  Two of the strongest sections were his discussions on goal setting and motivation.  <br />Getnz increased the difficult of his work by setting his text book in novel form.  There are some inconsistencies in the story. For instance, the poor fellow cannot order new brochures without the board's permission; yet, he is empowered to make the final decision on the computer purchase. On the story side of the book, where did Jim get all his money?  Right out of seminary and he is spending money like a sailor on a three-day leave- taking all those men out to lunch is expensive.  The chapters on leadership and preaching are very weak.  The advice given on leadership seems to urge the reader to accept the statue quo and work within it, and the advice on sermon preparation was right out of Homiletics 101.  The most serious criticism is the sheer volume of lists. Do not get me wrong,. There is a lot of valuable information in there; but the author had list overkill.  In the first 100 pages there was over 300 points and I estimate that he must have had an overwhelming 1000 separate points listed.<br />The last chapter on success on a failure spoke to my heart.  He warned us that success often carries within itself the seeds of failure, and that we are only as good as the last victory.  This point was made over and over again by Collins and Porras in Built to Last.  It's a good book for undergraduate study, but for professional enhancement and graduate work, there are better works out there.	2003-09-09
US	51388751	R2VIRINGGL8YE0	0887306470	820223931	Paradigms: The Business of Discovering the Future	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Explains complicated subject with clarity	Barker has the rare gift of explaining a complicated subject with clarity.  He states that when the rules change, ie., paradigm change, the whole world changes.    Perhaps the most interesting statement the author makes is that we must accept new paradigms as an act of faith. If one waits until all the evidence is presented it will result in being left behind as the competition gets a head start.  <br />One particular insight was very useful for church leaders.  Barker points out that many businessmen (and church leaders too) tend to take culture paradigms and turn them into sacred icons that must be protected at all cost. I was very pleased that the author did not fall into the post modern spirit which declares that truth is relative; rather, he forcibly declares that there is an objective knowable universe. One page 172 he states the most logical anti-public gambling argument I have heard.<br />Barker sees a rosy future, perhaps he is right. What he fails to address, however, is that new paradigms are two-edged swords, bringing post prosperity and doom.  His belief in the innate goodness of human nature is misplaced. His presumption that nation health care swill be an effective way of controlling cost is absurd.  Reading between the lines I got a hint of New Age thought. It almost seems that he believes in he potential omniscience of man.  <br />Some insights that were of help were: It is often the outsiders to come up with new paradigms. It is not accident that many growing churches are bypassing traditional seminaries as a source of personnel.  It also explains the fierce resistance to change within any organization. Those who have been there the longest have the most invested and also the most to lose if change occurs. The new outsiders have very little invested and much to gain. I also learned that the future is coming faster than we realize. If we wait to see what is coming, we will be left behind. Growing churches must be on the cutting edge of what God is doing.	2003-09-09
US	51388751	R2O819H0S5GG0D	0310521815	791113968	Honest to God?	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Its worth the read	Bill Hybells challenges Christians to put away pretentious Christianity and begin to communicate with each other about who we are and where we are in Christ.  The author contends that unless Christians do so, they will never experience the supernatural walk with a personal God. In a mere hundred and ninety-two pages, Hybells addresses over a dozen significant areas of the Christian life ranging from the role of male and female to physical fitness.<br />I tried not to like this book. Although I have tremendous respect for Mr. Hybells, I am not a big fan of his politics; yet, despite my reservations I was drawn to it. Hybells attempts to cover a significant amount of material in only a few pages. Whereas Honest to God cannot be called scholarly, it does serve its purpose in challenging the reader to live the authentic Christian life.  <br />Since this book is a primer on spiritual authenticity, it lacked depth; and since Hybells wrote it, it was predictable.  Like many of his earlier books, it follows the same format- personal stories or illustrations from his ministry, followed by teaching.  Every chapter follows the same format, Yawn!  One gets the impression the book is pasted together from a sermon series.  Some of the chapters were amazingly brief and consequently, amazingly weak. In a mere thirteen pages we are told how to have an authentic marriage, it is an amazing feat.  His chapter on the languages of love or not original with him, nor did he document that it was borrowed from another resource.  <br />Although it is rather predictable and superficial, Hybells does convey with utter clarity what authentic Christianity is.  Unless the church rediscovers spiritual authenticity, true renewal will remain an elusive goal at best.	2003-09-09
US	51388751	R2G42TPAAV39K6	0060516402	441586413	Built to Last: Successful Habits of Visionary Companies (Harper Business Essentials)	Books	5	6	13	N	N	Must Reading for Every Leader	Wow! What a book.  In it the authors look at visionary companies and what separates them from their top competitors. This is not a book about charismatic leaders or dynamic products, but a book about vision, values and risk taking. It is a book that every buinessman and pastor ought to read.<br />For the pastor of a church the greatest strength of Built to Last is that it is a book about business not about the church.  The concepts of vision, quality, excellence, leadership training, and of risk taking are all biblical concepts.  If God honors non-Christiand when they act according to His principles, how much more will He honor the church of the Living God?<BR> <BR>This book is filled with hundred of specific examples how these principles transformed ordinary businesses into visionary companies.  The contrast between the visionary companies and their competition is sobering. As I read how the ordinary competition would shoot themselves in the foot time and time again, the picture of the local church came to my mind.  The failure to establish vision, to articulate core values, to promote a team atmosphere, and to maintain consistent pastoral leadership has resulted in mediocre churches. <br />This book seemed to be dealing with something that small rural pastors would never deal with, being a visionary church. But the more I thought about it, the more I realized that the size of the church is irrelevant. The question is: Are we doing great things for God?  What are we trying to do that would only be possible if God were in it.  <br />This book is must reading for every leader, whether he or she leads a business or nonprofit organization.	2003-09-09
US	51388751	R179K0TZET4MB1	0801090873	866545529	Developing a Vision for Ministry in the 21st Century	Books	4	17	17	N	N	A Great Book with a Few Weaknesses	Malphus joins the growing ranks of authors whose goal is to help bring renewal to the church by teaching pastors how to develop a vision for ministry. In this, Malphurs was very successful.  The author presents a six-step process to help pastors develop and implement a vision in the local church<br />Being a small church pastor I appreciate his emphasis on the small church.  The use of the fictional Pastor Bob was an excellent tool of identification. It allowed the author to bring in the human element of discouragement, frustration and antagonism in a way that every pastor can identify with.  Malphurs dealt adequately with the idea of opposition.  The Deacon Bill character is a man we call can identify with.  <br />His advice on how to obtain a vision was excellent, it was pragmatic and easy to use.  This is in direct contrast with Barna's The Power of Vision (pgs. 81-1-84) that promulgated a process so tedious that only the most tenacious pastor would ever work his way through.  His insight that vision will become a dividing rod in the congregation rings true- those who buy into it stay, those who do not, leave.<br />This was a pretty powerful book, but it was not without some weaknesses.  It assumed that some of Pastor Bobs board were visionary people.  In far too many churches, the maintenance mind-set is firmly entrenched in the power structure and visionary people are excluded.  It is not unusual to have no men of vision on a church board, what then?  Although he did not neglect the opposition to vision within the church, I think he did underestimate it.  Peter Drucker makes it very clear that the people who have the most to lose by vision are the people who have invested the most into the organization. Barna's insight into the nature of opposition in his excellent book Turn Around Churches was far more realistic. <br />This book was packed full of helpful advice. I especially appreciated the distinction the author makes between leadership and management and that both are necessary in growing churches.  Churches cannot grow without leadership and they cannot deal with the problems caused by growth without management.  Thus the pastor must wear both hats. <br />Yes, this is a must read dealing with issues concerning vision that are not adequately covered in other books on the subject.	2003-09-09
US	51388751	R1O1TD89YN5E80	0785271627	269066490	Renewing Your Spiritual Passion (The Gordon Macdonald Bestseller Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Highly Recommended	MacDonald scored a home run with this excellent book.  The author looks at the journey of life we are all on and catalogs the issues that drain us and slow us down. He then states that spiritual passion has an ethereal quality about it, and if not taken care of it will soon disappear.  He then shows us how to regain lost spiritual passion through safe places, still times and special friends.<br />Macdonalds passionate writing style is a welcome breeze of refreshment.  Finally, I was reading an author who not only writes of the things of God, but employs beautiful prose in doing so.  As I read his chapter on positive and negative people, it brought to mind the people I have dealt with over the years. I realized that it was the Very Nice People and the Very Draining People who occupy most of my time.  It is the authors contention that while we do not ignore these people, we should try to focus our time on those who enhance our ministries.  In this respect, he echoes John Maxwells dictum about spending most of our people time with the top twenty percent of influences in the church.<br />MacDonald needs to be more precise in distinguishing between ambition and passionate desire; the distinction he makes seems somewhat artificial.  He says that ambition is the urge to get ahead, to establish oneself powerfully.  My question is this: Just what is the difference between this and the urge to do great things for Christ and profile security for one?s family.  Ambition, in itself, is not evil. It is the motivation behind our ambition that either enhances it or taints it.  Too many pastors have too little ambition; they settle for small vision, mediocre ministries and call themselves spiritual. <br />I highly recommend this book. It is written in a style and manner that is delightful to read and gives solid advice on how to renew our passion for God.	2003-09-09
US	51388751	R2SB5KKXOM1XV9	0310334918	383570605	The Kneeling Christian	Books	3	16	34	N	N	A classic, but a dated classic	This is an old classic whose premise is that the reason Christian fail to succeed spiritual is their failure to pray.  It is the authors belief that most Christians have lost the wonder of their faith, that deep down inside they really do not believe we worship an omnipotent God who is capable of given us exceedingly abundantly above all we think and ask.  The bottom line is this: do we believe God's Word is true?<br />The author has unwavering faith in the claims of Scripture. He believes that the scriptural pronouncements concerning prayer are to be taken literally.  Our failure to do so is the root of the churches inefficiency and powerlessness in the world.  In this, the author has hit the proverbial nail right on the head.  The author is to be commended for stating that not only are we to pray, but that our prayers are to have meat on them.  Do we really believe in an omnipotent God? Our prayer life betrays us.<br />Unfortunately, this book is written in a style that is difficult to read, peppered with undocumented illustrations, making it difficult for this reader to complete the book. It was very discouraging to read of these prayer warriors of almost mythical proportions with the authors underlying assumption that we too should be like them. Who were they?  What is the documentation? Living in a far more cynical age, these questions need to be answered.  Although the author specifically states that prayer is hard work, he seems to assume that if our faith was a great as these nameless missionaries we too would experience mountain moving prayer.<br />I could not help but contrast this attitude with the humanity portrayed in Bill Hybells books on prayer.  With Hybells you see a flawed man discovering the power of prayer, with the Unknown Christian we are confronted with dozens of supersaints whom we must try to emulate.<br />There are better books out there.  It may be a classic, but it is a dated classic.	2003-09-09
US	51388751	R3GXMTI6CMREXR	0875085547	498827623	God's Chosen Fast	Books	3	41	54	N	N	A Tentative Recommendation	Gods Chosen Fast is a comprehensive survey of fasting as presented in the Bible. Wallis does three things: Firsts he pleads for the renewal of fasting in the church as a channel to regain its lost apostolic power; second, he tells us the benefits of fasting; and finally, he tells us how to fast. <br />I appreciate the chapter on freedom from Satans power. Like Neil Anderson, Wallis believes much of what troubles Christians today can be attributed to the release once dormant demonic forces as Gods Spirit is being poured out afresh. For too long the church has either ignored Satans role in binding Christians or has attributed demon possession to psychological pathos.  Wallis commonsense approach to fasting was good. He points out that fasting has been abused in the past, but that abuse does not negate the biblical imperative to fast, or the power to be gained through fasting.  <br />Unfortunately, after chapter nineteen, the book goes downhill. The chapter on health and healing was terrible. The evidence he submits for the healing power of fasting was anecdotal and the authorities he cites were suspect at best. On page 117 he quotes as a medial source a certain Herbert M. Shelton who writes for the Natural Hygiene Press.  Does Wallis know that one can find a doctor to endorse almost any quack scheme? Where were the articles from the American Medial Association or the New England Journal of Medicine? His exegesis of the story of the Egyptian abandoned by the Amalekities who was revived after being rescued by David is amazing. How in the world could one attribute going three days without food for the poor man's revival? Did not the food and water David provided have something to do with the Egyptians regaining his health?<br />I give this book a tentative recommendation. It is of uneven quality and the documentation is weak.  It does, however, present a much broader picture of fasting than Foster is able to do in his book (The Celebration of Discipline).	2003-09-09
US	51388751	RU5DBSH3JWBBQ	0806623101	516067402	Antagonists in the Church: How To Identify and Deal With Destructive Conflict	Books	5	11	13	N	N	I wish I read this book 20 years ago!	What a great book.  Haugk has preformed a great service to pastors by giving them the tools to deal with their greatest bane: antagonist in the church. He does so first by defining what an antagonism is and differentiates it from ordinary conflict.  Second, he give the pastor the identifying characteristics, behaviors and warning signs of an antagonist. Third, he then deals with preventive issue, and finally, he gives the pastor strategies, skills and techniques that will help him cope with antagonist.<br />As I read this book I could identify in my minds eye various antagonist I have dealt with in twenty years of ministry. Although there has been only a handful of these difficult people, they have been very destructive of my ministry and family.  If only I had this book back then!  Anyone who has dealt with these people knows exactly what the author is taking about. This book is must reading for every pastor.  I only wish that I read this book twenty years ago.	2003-09-09
US	51388751	R28BKFQT9SGK94	0881841080	175183665	Stalingrad	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A brutal and terrifying novel	Written by a German Communist, who defected to the Soviet Union prior to World War II this hard to find book is a gripper.  The book tells the story of the greatest battle in the history of the world, the Battle of Stalingrad, where hundred of thousands of men perished in a cauldron of lead, fire and shrapnel. It is a story of the utter defeat of Paulus 6th Army where close to 500,000 people perished.  Throughout this book we find the dehumanizing and degrading effect of war on men.<br />It is expertly written, weaving in the stories of hero's and villains, the courageous and the cowardly.  The story opens and closes with the two German grave diggers Gnotke and Gimpf who epitomize the whole story.  Gnotke who shows humanity by taking care of the helpless Gimpf and Gimpf who struggles with his inner demons for his slaughter of innocent civilians.  In between, we find a divergent cast of characters who find themselves in circumstances that defied imagination.<br />This is not for the faint of heart. It is not a pleasant read; nightmarish would be a better description, but it is a story you won't want to miss. As I was reviewing my copy of this magnificent book to write this review, I found a list of essay questions I wrote to use  if I were ever in a position to teach a literature class. These questions give some insight into the intriguing story that Thayer tells:<br /> What is the author's view of suicide? Is it ever justified?<br /> What is the soldier's role in obeying orders? When is a commander justified in disobeying orders?<br /> How is humanity preserved in battle?<br /> Trace the author's view of Nazis, specially in the life of Wedderkolp.<br /> How does the role of the two chaplains portrayed?  How does this go with the author's communistic background?<br />The story of Stalingrad is a reminder that war, even conventional war, is a horrible thing.  For all of it's stark reality, Stalingrad proves to be one of the best antiwar novel every written; it simply is a masterpiece.  As I mentioned previously, this it is a hard to find book. My copies (I wore one out by reading it again and again) were found in used bookstores.  You will have to look hard to find this book, but it will be well worth the effort.y is a masterpiece.  As I mentioned previously, this it is a hard to find book. My copies (I wore one out by reading it again and again) were found in used bookstores.  You will have to look hard to find this book, but it will be well worth the effort.	2003-08-15
US	51388751	R84TPA2F333VI	0801025869	722666983	Christ-Centered Preaching: Redeeming the Expository Sermon	Books	5	35	37	N	N	A Must Read for Every Preacher	This is the most comprehensive book on preaching I have ever read and without a doubt one of the very best.  Chapell presents the reader with a thorough analysis of the preparation, development and delivery of expository sermons.  Chapell not only tells the reader what to do, he shows him. For instance, the author will not only tell how to write a sermon introduction, he gives several excellent example of good and bad introductions and then explains the strength and weaknesses of both. <BR>Chapell persuasively makes the case that a sermon is much more than imparting biblical information. He succinctly states, \\"no application, no sermon.\\"  I also appreciate that he addresses the issue of pastoral authority.  All the sermon preparation in the world will do little good if the pastor does not speak with the authority that God has given him. The author does not try so squeeze the reader into a particular method of sermon preparation, he outlines the necessary steps and then allows the reader to develop his own particular style  <BR>So much information was packed into so few pages that I found it very difficult to read this book fast. It took me longer to read it than it id Duduit's Contemporary Preaching that is nearly twice its length.  There were two faults I found this book.  I was a little confused with the terms. The FCF (Fallen Condition Focus) was a new concept for me. I had trouble separating it my mind from the sermon proposition.  Second, his advice on preaching one's doubts needs to be addressed with more clarity.  He wants preachers to have a genuine style, but he fails to caution us as H.W. Robinson does on the dangers of preaching your unresolved doubts and conflicts. <BR>This book gave me confidence to develop my sermons first and then look in the commentaries after the message is outlined. It also helped me with the most elementary, but needed advice- that I need to read, read, and reread the text. Nothing will help one develop a sermon more than knowingwhat the text says. I appreciate his 3:00 a.m. test, that is, if someone woke you up at 3:00 a.m. and asked you what your sermon was about could you respond with a single sentence?  How sad it is that for many years I preached sermons with no real focus.  Speaking of focus, Chapell explained the difference between biblical preaching and Christ-centered preaching.  Sometimes people would complain that I wasn't peach Christ even though I was preaching \\"biblical sermons.\\" Now I know why. Every sermon on marriage, family, etc. must end at the cross.<BR>Yes, yes, yes.  This is truly a great book, one of the few books I feel compelled to read again. It is a treasure chest of practical information for the preparation and delivery of sermons.	2003-08-15
US	51388751	RTGKMN7EORC3I	0306809974	38104890	The Autobiography Of Joseph Stalin: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A chilling read about a horrible man	This is a chilling read about the life of a really horrible man.  The authors invocation to the muse in the front pages tells it all: To whatever spirit possessed me to write this book may it be gone forever now. <br />Do not get me wrong. Its not a bad book; it is just a book about a very bad man.  If you ever want to catch a glimpse of the paranoia and the fear that the Russians lived under during Stalins reign of terror, read this book.<br />The author used the fiction of an autobiography to get inside the mind of Stalin.  It begins with the sentence:Leon Trotsky is trying to kill me,  and ends with Stalin going to bed upon hearing that is old nemesis Trotsky has been hacked to pieces.  <br />Throughout this book, the author portrays Stalin wrestling with God.  His simple wife, is devout and prays to the saints every day.  Stalin sees himself in contest with God, a contest he vows to win.  But in the end, with Trosky dead, and no one who loves him, Stalin can only say to himself: At last, I defeated God in his loneliness.<br />Unless you are a fan of Russian history or a masochist (come to think of it, is there any difference?) avoid this book.	2003-08-15
US	51388751	R225XJJ7LHRAIX	0849940923	334685245	The Search For Significance	Books	4	19	20	N	N	An intriguing book	This was a very intriguing book.  In  it McGee states that the hear of most human problems is that we have forsaken the truth of God and have believed the lie of Satan.  Satan's lie is this:  Self worth = Performance + Other's Opinion.  People experience four basic problems as a result of believing this lie: the performance trap, the approval addict, the blame game and shame.  The author looks at the consequences of each behavior and gives God's answer. His underlying assumption is that biblical truth meets the most basic issue of our live- our goals, motives and sense of worth.<br />This book has a strong biblical foundation in that the author finds the solution to man's problems in the Word of God. I especially appreciate that he addresses the time element involved counseling. Problems develop over years and solutions to them may take years. His advice to pastors is to be patient when counseling those who are hurting- healing takes time.  The essence of healing is to discover the false beliefs and assumptions that Satan has deceived us with and replace them with God's truth. In this he is very similar to Larry Crabb in that truth is the ultimate cure for wrong thinking. Wrong thinking is the cause of bad emotions.  Chapter three, however, is pretty basic stuff. It is hoped that we do not have to go through the plan of salvation.  Despite the slow start, the book improved towards the end.	2003-08-15
US	51388751	R2L0HSZKF5VAC4	0800714954	48969445	When the road gets rough	Books	1	1	1	N	N	It is just too superficial	When  the road gets rough<BR>Ed Hindson and Walter Byrd<br />In a mere 157 pages, the authors give expert counsel on twenty of life's toughest problems.  By golly, they devoted a whole eight pages to overcoming depression!  It was a most thorough presentation, now I feel equipped to help the clinically depressed.  Actually, this book is nothing more than a brief survey of the most common problems a pastor must face on a daily basis;  the topics range from financial bondage to marital problems.<br />The greatest strength of this book is the charts that the authors give detailing each problem and how to handle it; a picture truly is worth a thousand words. I especially appreciate that the authors avoid the victim mentality by stressing that each person must take responsibility for their own actions and health.  Corresponding to this is the author's premise that most of the problems we face in life are the result of sin.  Despite it's amazing brevity, the authors do accomplish something that Allender (Wounded Heart) failed to do in 291 pages- they help the pastor get to the underlying thoughts behind the attitudes. In a word, the book is full of commonsense advice.<br />Yet, it is just too simplistic.  The brief treatments of very difficult problem are asking to saying to the homeless, \\"Be fed and well.\\"  It is very strong on \\"what\\" to do and very weak on \\"how\\" and \\"why\\".  Often times, they deal with the symptom (anger as a husband), without getting to the root problems that may lie underneath  (sexual abuse of the wife as a child).  The authors' have some amazing leaps in logic that left me totally baffled.  Case in point: When dealing with the pathological causes for fatigue, they jump to the seven warning signs of cancer.  I think it is a safe bet that 99.44% of the people who seek help for fatigue do not have cancer.  There are hundreds of more common organic problems for fatigue than cancer.  It is also interesting that they conveniently avoid the subject of remarriage.  In fact, even in the subsection Sinful Remarriage, they avoid the subject completely. They talk about divorce; God's forgives of divorce, and God's ideal plan for \\"one man for one woman for one life time,\\" yet they never mention remarriage!  Holy Cow! A great help they are not.  They also stated that God never commanded divorce. Perhaps they should read Ezra 10 where the priests are commanded to separate themselves form their foreign wives.<br />This book contains some great sermons illustrations, but is of very little use other than that.  The chapters are just too brief to be of any real value.	2003-08-15
US	51388751	R1DGH1JNKI3PIR	0316501115	841614490	Goodbye, Darkness: A Memoir of the Pacific War	Books	5	8	10	N	N	I've read it again and again	Few books moved me like this one.  William Manchester has always been one of my favorite biographers writing such magnificent books as The Arms of Krupp, American Caesar, and The Last Lion.  But Goodbye Darkness is an intensely personal look at his own life as a soldier fighting in the brutal battle of Okinawa during World War Two.  As the title suggest, this book is an attempt by a aging man to come to grips with the brutality and the deeds of his youth.  More than a personal biography, Manchester weaves the whole Pacific Campaign into his story, we learn of the terror of Guadalcanal, the bravery of the Marines at Tarawa, and the courage of ordinary men who were put in extraordinary circumstances.  It is an intensely personal story as we get to know a young Manchester and his Raggedy Ass Marines.  We see how friendships were man, mistakes were made and lives were lost.  It is a magnificent book.<br />Manchester comes to grips with the ferocity of his enemy, the Japanese solider.  One can sense both a sense of admiration and enmity as Manchester talks about those he fought so long ago. Underlying this hate is the seed of racism as seen in the Japanese who took no prisoners to the Marines who mounted the severed heads of their enemy on their tanks.  It was brutal. Both sides saw the other as inferior human beings; thus, it was killed or be killed with very few prisoners taken.  Yet, the reader senses Manchester admiration of his enemy, the courage of the Japanese solider who fought with interior weapons, weakened by disease and who was often on the verge of starvation.  In the end, however, the authors observes, We were better soldiers.<br />I have read this book three, maybe four times over the years, and I am due to read it again. It is that good.	2003-08-15
US	51388751	RT65XAELSKSBI	1567310125	869892259	Our Oriental Heritage (Story of Civilization)	Books	5	55	59	N	N	A daunting, but enjoyable read	Since college, I have wanted to own the ten volume The Story of Civilization by Will Durant.  It simply was a purchase that a poor student or a novice pastor could afford.  My father-in-law Melvin Gosser,  found a set at a garage sale and purchased them for me as a Christmas present.  Now, I have the daunting job of reading them. Will and Ariel Durant spent a lifetime in research and writing to complete this set, beginning with the publication of Our Oriental Heritage in 1935 and concluding in 1967 with Rousseau and Revolution.  Each of these volumes are massive, between 800 and 1200 pages each.<br />I have to admit, I was tempted to skip over Our Oriental Heritage and begin reading where \\"real\\" history begins with ancient Greece. I am so glad I didn't.  More than information, the Durants are delightfully politically incorrect.  Any historian can give you the facts, a good one will do so with style, but a great historian gives himself.  That is exactly what the Durants have done.  As I started reading, I made myself review the first two hundred pages and began to underline delightful insights, and the beautiful prose of the authors.  <br />Here is an example of their prose: \\"The scenes of your youth, like the past, are always beautiful<BR>if we do not have to live in them again\\"<br />Example of their insights: \\"It is almost a law of history that the same wealth that generates a civilization announces its decay. For wealth produce ease as well as art; it softens a people to the ways of luxury and peace and invites invasion from stronger arms and hungrier mouths.\\" <br />That is not to say that every chapter was spell binding, they were not.  There were whole sections that I had to discipline myself to read.  I won't fault the author's, however.  Reading about ancient Persia, India and China, left me somewhat perplexed. My lack of knowledge of these cultures made it difficult for me to appreciate the author's insights.<br />As I read about the rise and fall of civilizations, I could not help but worry about our own. His insights seem to be coming true every day.  Not a read for everyone, but if you have a long cold winter to endure, I can think of no better way to pass the time than by reading this book.	2003-08-15
US	51388751	R2ZGLCP3X1VCDN	0140071229	705074922	001: August 1914 (The Red Wheel, Vol. 1)	Books	5	74	78	N	N	I really liked it. . . A Great Book	August 1914<br />Alexander Solzhenitsyn<br />I remember when my son was little. He would bring me August 1914 and ask me to read it to him.  There were no pictures in this book, but he knew that it was a book that I loved.  So we would lie on his bed and as I opened the book and read to him about a world he could only discover in a book.  Solzhenitsyn is one of my hero?s, a moral voice speaking against the tyranny of Soviet repression. This book about the battle of Tennenberg in August 1914 is not only a brilliant historical novel, but also a critique of the forces that lead to the October Revolution in Russia.  Let?s talk about the story, before we continue the review.<br />The story is about the entrance of Imperial Russia into World War I.  War is declared and Russia in its hurry to honor its commitments to France, invades Prussia.  Its army under the leadership of General Samsonov is unprepared for war and Russia suffers a humiliating defeat as the army is surrounded and destroyed.  The story is told through the eyes of a Colonel Vorotyntsey who alone sees the coming disaster and vainly tries to avert it.<br />It is a story of an Army that did not understand modern warfare.  Samsonov, a cavalry officer, is used to sitting on his horse and viewing the battlefield; this battlefield, however, stretches for hundreds of miles.  Communication is non-existent; supplies are scarce.  The Germans, however, understood the new technology and were able to listen in on all the Russian communications.  Samsonov makes one blunder after another; he is out classed and doesnt know what to do.  With his army collapsing around him, he is lost.  Lost in a forest, he ends his life with a bullet as he and his staff are attempting to escape the encirclement.<br />It is a wonderfully written book.  One can hear the hoof beats of the charging cavalry, see the sabers glistening in the sun, sense the terror of the soldiers huddle in their trenches as thousands of shells fall around them andsmell the cordite as it drifts across the fields.  But Solzhenitsyn?s purpose is more than giving us a history of a battle fought long ago, we wants to expose the corruption of a Czarist Russia that lead to an even greater corruption of the Soviet System.  This is a novel about truth and the attempt to conceal it.  The old Czarist regime and the Soviet one that followed could only survive by the suppression and the corruption of the truth.  No wonder that this book was banned in the Soviet Union.<br />It is a great book; I have read it at least a half dozen times over the years.	2003-08-14
US	51388751	R31ZY0QGTF298O	0805415505	108583856	Handbook of Contemporary Preaching: A Wealth of Counsel for Creative and Effective Proclamation	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Massive Volume with some good insights	This an anthology of essays on preaching spanning the range from the theology of preaching to it's ethics.  The theme that holds everything together is \\"contemporary.\\" The editor's purpose is to introduce the reader to a \\"host of vital issues relating to the preaching tasks.\\"  There is hardly an aspect of preaching that is not covered in this book.  It is an exhaustive in scope, dealing with methodology, theology, preparation and delivery.<br />It's sheer size is its greatest strength, it has something to say about almost every aspect of preaching.  The anthology format gives the reader a variety of view points, styles and concerns about preaching. I especially appreciate that both theologians and practitioners of the art of preaching were asked to contribute to this volume. In particular, I was impressed by Paul Borden's essay on expository preaching.  Briscoe's chapter on developing the sermon and Ogilive's essay on preparing sermons introductions are gold mines of valuable information.<br />Because of its format, the quality of writing is uneven and some of the essays were very boring to read.  The whole section on \\"Preaching the Biblical Text\\" simply restated what should be obvious to even the novice preacher.  Similar criticisms could be made conerning the section \\"Preaching and Ministry.\\" Other books such as Chapell's book on illustrations give greater insight on particular topics, but that is to be expected. <br />I would recommend this book for undergraduate work.  The few essays that proved of value were of extraordinary use to me, well worth the long read.	2003-08-11
US	51388751	R3FPNE11R8Q4IE	0310247454	340262262	Boundaries: When to Say Yes, How to Say No to Take Control of Your Life	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Where was this book 20 years ago?	Although Cloud did wrote on boundaries in his previous work (Changes that Heal) this book picks up the theme and develops it more fully.  It gives a strong biblical basis for those Christians who find it difficult and \\"unchristian\\" to say \\"no\\" to people.  Cloud and Townsend are among the rate handful of Christian authors who pick up the Hebrew idea of covenant that implies that there is a greater power than power expressed- it is power restrained.  Too many Christian buy into the Greek idea that power must be expressed to be effective.  Like Anderson, the authors see that the \\"sins of the family\\" can be passed down from generation to generation and need to be confronted.  Their illustration of forgiveness as being canceled debt is powerful and convicting. It is an old idea, but it is addressed in a refreshing and eye-opening way.  Repeatedly the authors stress that we cannot change other people's behavior, nor can we assume responsibility for their feelings.  The authors see great value in group therapy, a concept that Jay Adams condemns as being unbiblical.  I could not help but noticing that they took the very popular Gary and Ann Marie Ezzo head on in condemning Ezzo's advice to put infants on strict feeding and sleeping schedules.<br />The book was somewhat repetitive in nature. I believe the authors designed it this way because they realized that few of their readers will read it cover to cover.  People tend to zero in on the topic that interest them most; thus the authors see the need to repeat ideas.<br />This book should be required reading for every pastor since we often feel overwhelmed because we cannot say \\"no\\" to people. It will also help you distinguish between being responsible for and responsible to people.  I highly recommend this book, it is must reading for every pastor. I only wish I had read this book twenty years ago at the beginning of my ministry.	2003-08-11
US	51388751	R30BOFPNHYVOW1	0880703350	341524855	Mastering Contemporary Preaching (Mastering Ministry Series)	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Very Disappointing	This is another of the \\"Mastering Ministry\\" series published by Multnomah Press. The premise of the book is to give the reader enough pragmatic advice to master contemporary preaching. The full range of pertinent topics is discussed, from today's audience to today's preacher.<br />Like other books in this series its main strength is the layout which makes information readily available, the pragmatic advice, and simple illustrations to help the reader appropriate the truth. Highlights of the books were Brisco's essay on the do's and don'ts of ministry, helpful advice on preaching controversial subjects and how to recognize and deal with the subtle temptations of the ministry. <br />On the whole, the book was very disappointing. By far, it was the weakest book in this series I have read. There is hardly enough material in it to let one get a handle on contemporary preaching, let alone master it. Too many anecdotes, not enough teaching. Hybels' chapter on preaching on sex was reprinted in Leadership. I had already read it before I purchased the book. I felt as it I should have received a partial refund. <br />Robinson's chapter on preaching on steward lacked depth, being on thirteen pages (large print, wide margins, and generous spacing between the lines) I can hardly fault the authors with this however; these are editing decisions. Perhaps they should call this book Introduction to Contemporary Preaching.	2003-08-11
US	51388751	R1UWAWOFKGRQQP	0880705892	569092237	A Voice in the Wilderness: Mastering Ministry (Pressure Points)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A real gem	This book is a part of a series published my Multnomah Press on Mastering Ministry Pressure Points.  Unlike other books that deal with the craft of sermon building, or the character of the pulpit, this book deals with the pressure and opposition a pastor must face.  I  am appreciative of the fact that aside from the usual pressure points that a book of his nature would normally deal with, the author deals rather extensively with the \\"cultural wars\\" we find ourselves in. <br />The authors do a very good job in promoting the value of inductive preaching to the post-modern audience.  Chapter one on authority is outstanding.  When I was in seminary, we were never taught this, in fact, if one would have expounded the authority of the pastor he would have been publicly scoffed at by facility and student alike. <br />The step by step plan to establish one's authority in the local church is excellent.  This book is full of practical advice.  The chapter on strength for the weekly grind is indicative of this practicality. The authors were refreshingly honest in their approach to preaching.  The advice on \\"short-cuts\\" alone was well worth the price of the book.  The discussion on the tension that exists between the voice of authority and the voice of transparency helped put his difficult dilemma in proper perspective.<br />Practically, this book has very few weaknesses. It does not purport to be a scholarly time, nor did it pretend to teach each subject exhaustively.  It accomplishes it goal in helping pastors with practical advice.  I will take one theology stab at the book. On pg. 93 he say repentance \\"does not mean calling people to straighten out everything they've committed . . . it is agreeing with God about who he is , who you are, and what's you've done  and what needs to change.\\" Like or not, repentance means a change of behavior as well as a change of attitude.  Well, he goes the Lordship debate all over again.  <br />More than most books, A Voice in the Wildernessaddresses the practical issues that every minister is faced with. Whereas it is unlikely to save a failing ministry, this book can certainly help those ministers who may be struggling day to day.	2003-08-11
US	51388751	R1U0A0P5GENU9U	0801010713	41228625	Fresh Air in the Pulpit: Challenges and Encouragement from a Seasoned Preacher	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Written by a pastor, for a pastor	This is a book written for pastors by a pastor. Its purpose is to help out \\"fresh air' back into preachers who may have grown tire or stale in their preaching.  Briscoe's promise is that pastors need help in a media soaked culture.  Surrounded by pulpit \\"superstars\\" local pastors are finding it increasingly difficult to \\"deliver the goods\\" to their churches.  Briscoe covers the full range of preaching from the preacher's attitude and preparation to the delivery of sermons.  <br />By far the greatest strength of this book is that the author recognizes and expounds on the role of the Holy Spirit in the act of preaching.  The pastor is anointed by God to be His spokesmen.  Thus, he is to expect something supernatural to happen in the very act of preaching, \\"When the word is preached in power, progress is one of the inevitable results.\\"  I also appreciate that he addresses character issues- that we are to be men of the Word, studying, mediating, praying and walking in the Spirit.  Briscoe has the confidence to laugh at himself (preaching a sixty week series on I Corinthians). He is also very pragmatic, taking the read step by step through the process of sermon preparation and proclamation.  <br />The only thing I gook issue with was chapter 9, \\"The Predictable and the Unpredictable.\\" His premise is good: Each worship service should have predictable elements presented in unpredictable ways. Yet, the examples he gives seem to be novelty for novelty sake. His word of worship (pg. 83) reflects the traditional order of worship that Rutz (The Open Church) attributes to Martin Luther.  If Briscoe really wants unpredictability in the worship service, why did he choose an order of worship that is the same \\"week after week, month after month, year after year, decade after decade, generation after generation, world without end, amen?\\" c.f., Rutz, pgs. 61. Briscoe's advice to combine different worship styles within a given worship service is suspect, very few people can make it work.  <br />Aside from these minor problems, this is an excellent book for any preacher.  Great book on preaching.	2003-08-11
US	51388751	R3HMNF94SUVI8T	1581342640	480002790	Using Illustrations to Preach with Power (Revised Edition)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Buy it, you'll like it	It is the author's purpose to demonstrate how illustrations can reach people with God's Word.  Chapell warns against those who would criticize the use of illustrations because some preachers abuse them.  God's Word remains predominate; effective illustrations, however, can often help people understand and apply the truth of God.  Chapell first demonstrates the wider context of communication theory and then shows us how to develop and use illustrations.<br />Chapell demonstrates how effective illustrations can revitalize traditional preaching forms, thus negating the current emphasis on narrative and drama as a replacement for the sermon.  His observations that intellectualism alone cannot move the human heart is a message every pastor needs to hear and understand.  It is interesting to note that Chapell obverses that our preaching is more influenced by Plato than it is by Jesus, the use of illustrations is a biblical practice.<br />This is an excellent book at helped me in finding, preparing and using illustrations.  In just reading this book and applying its principles to my preaching, the response from my congregation was evident. They liked what they heard.	2003-08-10
US	51388751	R38M10V9D57Q51	0801022622	688012002	Biblical Preaching: The Development and Delivery of Expository Messages	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A real eye-opener	This is an excellent book on expository preaching. Robinson declares that in the act of preaching God himself is speaking through the pastor.  Thus, as preachers of the Word, we have a tremendous responsibility to be faithful to it. Robinson's thesis is that this faithfulness is best found in expository preaching. He states that expository preaching is more than a philosophy than a method.  Does the preacher bend his or her own thought to the Word, or does the Word bend to the preacher's thought?  Although Robinson believes that preaching is an art, he rightly states that there is a methodology behind the art that almost anyone can master.  So, step-by-step, he leads us through the process of putting together the sermon.<br />Robinson finds the strength of an expository sermon is that it proclaims the Word.  If we do not preach the Word, we abandon authority.  The Bible is great literature that demands a response; thus, we are to preach ideas, not word definitions.  Robinson lifts us up above the Bible lecture sermon to preaching to demand a response to the living God.  The final chapters on delivery, dress and appearance were great.  Too many books on preaching ignore these important considerations. <br />The book was such and eye-opener, I found it very difficult to find fault with it.  I will take issue with his criticism of the use of a manuscript.  It did not take into account that such great speakers as Bill Hybels uses a manuscript in the pulpit. <br />Every preacher should own and read this book.	2003-08-10
US	51388751	R1HV72NFKV7NLE	0310225701	267933387	Effective Biblical Counseling: A Model for Helping Caring Christians Become Capable Counselors	Books	3	41	43	N	N	Has some strong points	Crabb believes that the local church should assume the responsibility for restoring people who are in need of healing. For too long the church has abdicated this biblical role. He states that there are three levels of counseling. Level I is counseling by encouragement which every member of the church can do by helping hurting people focus on establishing biblical feelings.  Level II is counseling by exhortation.  This level of counseling requires a good biblical background, it can be done by elders, Sunday School teachers and pastors. Level III is counseling by enlightenment that tries to establish godly behavior through changed thinking. <br />A picture is worth a thousand words. Larry Crabb's charts give clarity and meaning to his writing. While having a strong biblical basis, Crabb does not ignore the contributions of secular systems of psychology, rather, he puts them thorough the sieve of biblical truth to find practical helpful advise. I appreciate his thoughtful critique of competing systems of psychology. He gives the reader a general introduction to the different schools of counseling, both secular and Christian. Rather than bashing the non-Christian viewpoints he notes their strengths and exposes their humanistic presuppositions.  The discussion of Transactional Analysis on pg. 39 demonstrates a model of secular psychology adopted by the evangelical church.  While Transactional Analysis can be a helpful tool for the pastor, Crabb looks at its humanistic presuppositions and warns of its misuse. He sees man's basic need as significance and security. People need to know that they have worth and that they are loved.  Crabb has a gift to communicate in a clear way some rather technical stuff.  Also worthy of note is Crabb's discussion how problems develop in chapters six and seven.<br />I really enjoyed this book but I felt as if I were duped. The church is to have three levels of counseling, yet, it is not until pg. 165 that Mr. Crabb states that Level II counseling (counseling by encouragement) is for \\"elders, pastors, deacons . . . other spiritually mature.\\" The bulk of the book is about Level III counseling which requires specialized training of six months to a year to learn.  Mr. Crabb admits  to not having develop a teaching curriculum for it.  Clearly, Level III counseling requires a time commitment that few pastors and lay people can afford to make. <br />The book gave me hope that we can do Level I and II counseling with very little training. I am afraid, however that Level III counseling is out of reach most churches.  The time, expertise and expense in trading are beyond the means of most small churches.  Personally, this book helped me order my thinking on pastoral counseling. In seminary, I was taught an eclectic model of counseling with no biblical worldview. It left me drifting in a mass of psychobabble.  I highly recommend this book because if its excellent survey of competing schools of thought and its thorough analysis of them.	2003-08-10
US	51388751	R3L4TJTV6A548L	0805411445	11410933	The Empowered Communicator: 7 Keys to Unlocking an Audience	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Full of helpful advice	Although this book was written for pastors, Calvin Miller certainly did not have the small church pastor on his mind when he wrote it.  Much of what he says assumes a large church audience.  As the title suggest he discusses seven keys to unlocking an audience.  Miller addresses the intangibles of public speaking, i.e., audience interest, relational communication, deportment, and quality of vice and delivery).<br />This is a wonderful book full of helpful advice. I like the summary boxes and the chapter outlines at the end of the book, these made the information presented much more accessible.  I also like that he used the \\"E\\" word. Sermons should be \\"entertaining\\" as well as informative.  Too many preachers nearly bore their audiences to death.  Such honesty is refreshing. Like Chapell, he emphatically states that \\"no application, no sermon.\\"  People need to know how biblical truth applies to and affects their lives.  Related to this was his call to preach with passion: the biblical truth must grasp us before it will grasp our audience.  Miller also did an excellent job explaining and illustrating inductive preaching.<br />Within the first few pages he quotes Bob Schuller's  Self-Esteem, The New Reformation as a source to demonstrate that evangelicals as a group have the lowest self esteem in America.  If this book was not required reading for a class, I probably would have thrown it aside and not read it thereby missing some valuable insight and advice.<br />It's a good book despite its weaknesses.  Yet, as mentioned above, he seems to be speaking directly to preachers of much larger congregations than mind. His revelation to \\"mingle with the little people\\" is already known to every small church pastor. We live and work with our people every day.  Few of us have the luxury of locking ourselves away in our ivory towers.  It is not a book about sermon preparation, but about effective communication and we all could use more of that kind of information.	2003-08-10
US	51388751	R2DK9D5QS8D1Q4	0802806279	222431206	Between Two Worlds: The Challenge of Preaching Today	Books	2	14	44	N	N	There are better books out there than this	Stott believes that preaching is indispensable to Christianity, for in the act of preaching God himself is speaking though the Word to the congregation.  There is, however, a cultural divide between biblical and modern culture that must be bridged if effective communication is to take place and the preacher has the awesome responsibility to bridge the gap. <br />In the best tradition of the reformation, Stott emphasizes the centrality of preaching. In doing so, he is taking a stand which is increasingly lonely as the contemporary church is stressing  worship, often at the expense of preaching.  Like Chapell, he is somewhat suspicious of new forms of proclamation (narrative, drams, etc).  The church, he states, stands or falls in preaching and preaching alone.  Unfortunately, he does take quite a while to make this point.  <br />The book is very dated filled with illustrations and studies from the 1970's. His projections how life will be by the year 2000 are way off the mark (Colonies on Mars and CB radios in every car and home are two of the more ridiculous examples).  Often, Stott will drift off his subject into excessive social commentary. His long discussion on the influence of television on children is a prime example  His advise to encourage debate with liberal Christian scholars misses the point- These scholars do not have the same world view we do, what's the use of a debate?  <br />If this book was not required reading, I would have not completed it.  It's too \\"British\\" for my tastes. Despite the helpful advice Stott does give, I believe that there are other books out there that can do a better job.	2003-08-10
US	51388751	R2MNL2WWVSA5UM	0880703350	341524855	Mastering Contemporary Preaching (Mastering Ministry Series)	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Disappointing	This is another of the \\"Mastering Ministry\\" series published by Multnomah Press.  The premise of the book is to give the reader enough pragmatic advice to master contemporary preaching.  The full range of pertinent topics is discussed, from today's audience to today's preacher.<br />Like other books in this series its main strength is the layout which makes information readily available, the pragmatic advice, and simple illustrations to help the reader appropriate the truth.  Highlights of the books were Brisco's essay on the do's and don'ts of ministry, helpful advice on preaching controversial subjects and how to recognize and deal with the subtle temptations of the ministry. <br />On the whole, the book was very disappointing.  By far, it was the weakest book in this series I have read.  There is hardly enough material in it to let one get a handle on contemporary preaching, let alone master it.  Too many anecdotes, not enough teaching. Hybels' chapter on preaching on sex was reprinted in Leadership. I had already read it before I purchased the book.  I felt as it I should have received a partial refund.  Robinson's chapter on preaching on steward lacked depth, being on thirteen pages (large print, wide margins, and generous spacing between the lines) I can hardly fault the authors with this however; these are editing decisions. Perhaps they should call this book Introduction to Contemporary Preaching.	2003-08-09
US	51388751	RY6RRN51ALH74	0800757203	524337451	The Disciple-Making Pastor	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Outstanding	Another outstand book by Hull.  It is the author's thesis that the anemic state of the church is due to a lack of discipleship or as he would put it, \\"It is a crisis of product\\".  The marching orders of the church are plain and simple: make disciples.  The modern church is adept at making converts, but it makes precious few disciples, thus failing to fulfill the Great Commission.  Hull gives us a six step program to facilitate that process: Them what, they them why (most churches stop right here), show the how, do it with them, let them do it, deploy them in the world.<br />In chapter four, \\"The Role of a Disciple Making Pastor\\" Hull provides a strong theological framework upon which his thesis is built. In it, he makes the biblical care for the role of the modern pastor.  Coming from a Christian Church/church of Christ background that relegates the role of the pastor to a glorified chaplain, I appreciate his care for strong pastoral leadership.  He also takes issue with Rutz (The Open Church) who denigrates the modern pastoral rule.  Hull rightly observes that without strong pastoral leadership as the \\"trigger mechanism\\" for discipleship, renewal will not happen in the church. Hull's analogy of the pastor as coach is excellent. His criticism of ministry to felt need sis a perhaps a little to hard.  Though the idea of meet felt needs is overused, the idea is still a good one- you reach people where they are.  The last few chapters were redundant and could have been considerably shortened	2003-08-09
US	51388751	R10LYZP4YP4XDY	0830714731	784222059	User Friendly Churches: What Christians Need to Know About the Churches People Love to Go to	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hard to find fault with this one!	This is a very good book.  In it, Barna examines growing churches and then extrapolates growth principles that they have in common.  Barna warns the greater that to simply copy the methodologies and formats of successful churches without first analyzing one's own culture is to guarantee failure.<br />Barna refutes to give pat answers to difficult questions. He urges the reader to understand the spiritual principles behind successful churches and then apply them to his or her own unique situation. The emphasis on leadership is superb. No church can grow if the pastor does not understand what it means to be a leader and to lay out a God-given vision for his people.  No statement is truer than this: If the people in your church do not seem truly excited or passionate about ministry, he is because they do not have a leader who models those traits for them.\\"<br />I must confess that I am a real Barna fan and find it rather difficult to find fault with his work.  Although at times he can get bogged down in statistics this book is remarkably lucid and worthy of sharing with my lay leadership. It has a clear, concise and limited purpose and Barna fulfills it admirable.	2003-08-09
US	51388751	RBSMT6PYPANWX	0880703350	341524855	Mastering Contemporary Preaching (Mastering Ministry Series)	Books	2	0	4	N	N	Disappointing	This is another of the \\"Mastering Ministry\\" series published by Multnomah Press.  The premise of the book is to give the reader enough pragmatic advice to master contemporary preaching.  The full range of pertinent topics is discussed, from today's audience to today's preacher.<br />Like other books in this series its main strength is the layout which makes information readily available, the pragmatic advice, and simple illustrations to help the reader appropriate the truth.  Highlights of the books were Brisco's essay on the do's and don'ts of ministry, helpful advice on preaching controversial subjects and how to recognize and deal with the subtle temptations of the ministry. <br />On the whole, the book was very disappointing.  By far, it was the weakest book in this series I have read.  There is hardly enough material in it to let one get a handle on contemporary preaching, let alone master it.  Too many anecdotes, not enough teaching. Hybels' chapter on preaching on sex was reprinted in Leadership. I had already read it before I purchased the book.  I felt as it I should have received a partial refund.  Robinson's chapter on preaching on steward lacked depth, being on thirteen pages (large print, wide margins, and generous spacing between the lines) I can hardly fault the authors with this however; these are editing decisions. Perhaps they should call this book Introduction to Contemporary Preaching.	2003-08-09
US	51388751	R228N6CZ8JRMSF	0800716892	183239155	Can We Save the Evangelical Church?: The Lion Has Roared	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Written with passion!	Hull makes the case for renewal in the evangelical church with such clarity and passion that I read it in just three sittings.  Renewal is a painful and difficult process not to be attempted by the timid or the faint of heart.  Mr. Hull identifies the cultural forces which have ingrained themselves in the church and which will doom it to insignificance unless radical changes are made.  He then lays out step-by-step the path that pastors must follow if renewal is to take place.<br />It's greatest strength is not the prescription for renewal it lays out; rather, it lies in the passion of the argument and the clarity of thinking. I was convinced by reading this book that unless renewal takes place, most evangelical churches will fade into meaningless insignificance.  His observation that all congregations regardless of their polity are congregational needs to remembered by every pastor seeking to bring renewal to the church.  If people stop giving, attending or serving; the pastor's leadership is meaningless. <br />As far as it's weaknesses, I found only one problem that I will take issue with.  In his attempt to clear the church of life-chocking bureaucracy he argues for ad hoc committees to replace standing committees. Although I understand his revulsion to the committee system, there is a third alternative he does not mention, namely ministry teams.  Unlike committees, ministry teams function autonomously with perimeters set by the elders or board.  The function of a ministry team is not to present proposals to the board, but to do the work of ministry.  This concept fits hand in glove with Hull's argument for small discipleship groups.  This book has been a great help to my ministry by reminding me that discipleship doesn't happen by default, it must be planned.	2003-08-07
US	51388751	R3JIWGZJE6RQKA	0830710248	732096459	Unleashing the Church: Getting People Out of the Fortress and into Ministry	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A must read!	Frank Tillapaugh hit a home run with this book.  First, he reasons that the church must abandon its fortress mentality and get its people actively involved in ministry to a hurting world. He severely criticizes the church, and rightly so, for its rural middle class mind-set and value system which prevents it from reaching those who need salvation the most.  Despite the failure of the church to reach strategic populations, Tillapaugh does not give up on the church as an instrument that God has chosen to reach these population groups for Christ.<br />Although it's strength is in the fact that Tillapaugh is solidly sold on the church as the instrument God has ordained to win the world to Christ.  I enjoyed his recommendation that the church not be shy about borrowing from the para-church organizations.  Why, he reasons, should we reinvent the wheel?  His advice that the church streamline its decision making process is worth the price of the book. Like Bill Hull's Can We Save the Evangelical Church, Tillapaugh sees the strangle hold that bureaucratic red tape has no the church.  The slowness (like a mighty glacier moves the church of God!) adds to the public's perception that the church is out of date, and on top of that, it also discourages willing workers.<br />There were a few areas of weakness. Pastoring in a small rural church, I am acutely aware that rural churches are also in need of renewal.  Although I realize that he is writing for an urban audience, the same rural traditions that are killing urban churches are strangling our rural churches.  Since ninety percent of churches are rural, the church is in danger of extinction unless we can bring renewal to rural churches as well.	2003-08-07
US	51388751	RO5YJHL78PQGH	0446530506	690125750	Follow This Path: How the World's Greatest Organizations Drive Growth by Unleashing Human Potential	Books	5	8	8	N	N	I agree, it's a great book	I really didn't want to like this book.  It just sounded too much like some new age, pop psychology dribble on how to feel good.  I couldn't have been further from the truth.  Although this isn't a great book, it is a very valuable book, not only for the businessman, but for leaders of nonprofits as well.  <br />The premise of the book is simple.  In an age where prices have been cut to razor thin margins, and businesses have become commodities, the only way to profitably survive is to unleash the human potential among your employees and customers.  The authors ask this simple, but profound question: Why would a customer drive past your competition and pay a higher price to purchase your product?  The answer: You have an emotionally engaged customer.<br />The authors demonstrate the world's greatest organizations connect with their customers on an emotional level.  When this happens customers return because of the way they feel- they become emotional engaged.  The businesses manta for the last century has been based on reason- if you build a better mousetrap, offer it at the lowest price, people will buy.  Studies have shown that people are more driven by their emotions when it comes to purchase and repurchase than they are by reason.  The same holds true for employees.  The Gallop organization also has shown that emotionally engaged employees produce more, stay longer, have less accidents, etc. <br />Any problems?  Maybe one.  When hiring, the authors tell us again and again to commit to talent above education, experience, willingness to work hard, and the usual resume items.  Inborn talent produces engaged employees; but what they did not address was the integrity issue.  Jack Welch points out that the most dangerous employee is not the rude, insensitive, actively disengaged employee; but the one with the talent who does not hold to the values of the corporation.  The actively disengaged employee will hurt the company, and yes, if you have enough of them they willdestroy the company, but the real danger lies with talented, engaged employees who love their work but who do not hold to the company's values.  These are the ones Welch would immediately get rid of.<br />All in all, it's a valuable book.  For a pastor of a small church, or a midlevel manager, the Q-12  (Questions developed by the Gallop organization which identify the conditions of a great work space) are invaluable.  By unleashing the human potential in staff, volunteers and members the leader of a nonprofit can build a great organization.	2003-08-07
US	51388751	R1392W76PZX6Q8	0801025869	722666983	Christ-Centered Preaching: Redeeming the Expository Sermon	Books	5	2	2	N	N	WOW! A must have book	This is the most comprehensive book on preaching I have ever read and without a doubt one of the very best.  Chapell presents the reader with a thorough analysis of the preparation, development and delivery of expository sermons.  Chapell not only tells the reader what to do, he shows him. For instance, the author will not only tell how to write a sermon introduction, he gives several excellent example of good and bad introductions and then explains the strength and weaknesses of both. <br />Chapell persuasively makes the case that a sermon is much more than imparting biblical information. He succinctly states, \\"no application, no sermon.\\"  I also appreciate that he addresses the issue of pastoral authority.  All the sermon preparation in the world will do little good if the pastor does not speak with the authority that God has given him. The author does not try so squeeze the reader into a particular method of sermon preparation, he outlines the necessary steps and then allows the reader to develop his own particular style  <br />So much information was packed into so few pages that I found it very difficult to read this book fast. \\"Contemporary Preaching\\" that is nearly twice its length.  There were two faults I found this book.  I was a little confused with the terms. The FCF (Fallen Condition Focus) was a new concept for me. I had trouble separating it my mind from the sermon proposition.  Second, his advice on preaching one's doubts needs to be addressed with more clarity.  He wants preachers to have a genuine style, but he fails to caution us as H.W. Robinson does on the dangers of preaching your unresolved doubts and conflicts. <br />This book gave me confidence to develop my sermons first and then look in the commentaries after the message is outlined. It also helped me with the most elementary, but needed advice- that I need to read, read, and reread the text. Nothing will help one develop a sermon more than knowing what the text says. I appreciate his 3:00a.m. test, that is, if someone woke you up at 3:00 a.m. and asked you what your sermon was about could you respond with a single sentence?  How sad it is that for many years I preached sermons with no real focus.  Speaking of focus, Chapell explained the difference between biblical preaching and Christ-centered preaching.  Sometimes people would complain that I wasn't preach Christ even though I was preaching \\"biblical sermons.\\" Now I know why. Every sermon on marriage, family, etc. must end at the cross.<br />Yes, yes, yes.  This is truly a great book, one of the few books I feel compelled to read again. It is a treasure chest of practical information for the preparation and delivery of sermons.	2003-08-07
US	51388751	R2VRCU0FUH6HXT	031037281X	182756738	The Lost Art of Disciple Making	Books	2	11	25	N	N	Yawn, I've read better	I hate to admit it, but I really had to force myself to read through this book. It was not that it had no value, for it did contain some help insights; but it was the third book I have read by a Navigator and they all sound alike. It is almost as if I am hearing a Navigator's commercial throughout each book. Eims basis premise, however, is sound: The church must rediscover the biblical principle of disciple making.  Eims states with utmost clarity that programs and material cannot make up for the human element that is missing from so many churches today- one-on-one discipleship. <br />The book is chock full of practical advice about disciples making, from training objectives to leadership development.  Eims tries to answer all the questions, so much so that there is a tendency to get bogged down in detail.  One fault of the book is that it seems to be in a 1960's - 1970's time warp.  The constant reference to evangelistic organizations that have long since peaked and now are struggling for their lives was distracting.  Also, there was no mention of the dynamic of a Spirit filled church that will go a long way in helping disciple people.  When people are really excited about the cause of Christ, there is a tendency to study on one's own and take personal responsibility for one's own spiritual growth.	2003-08-07
US	51388751	R1HIZTNATLSHU4	0781438837	970036211	Disciples Are Made Not Born: Helping Others Grow to Maturity in Christ	Books	2	9	17	N	N	I was disappointed	This book is an introduction to disciple making, designed to be taught in either an adult Sunday School class or in a small group for laymen. Much of the content of the book is based on Navigator techniques of discipling converts in the basics of the faith, rather than reproducing leaders in the church. This is the book's main weakness.<br />This is not to say that the church is without merit. I especially appreciated the author's emphasis that we recruit people to a vision and his emphasis on faithfulness in refuting disciples.  Of course, his stress on multiplication of disciples is good.  He states that true discipleship is not is not complete until the new convert is able to reproduced himself by brining another person to Christ and training that person to reproduce himself also. It reminded me to keep the course we have chosen. It reinforced my decision to begin small and work big rather than trying to start a church-wide discipleship study. It also reminded me not to recruit people merely to sustain the organization rather than calling them to fulfill the vision.<br />The author spends too much time restating the obvious. Unlike Hull's \\"The Disciple Making Pastor\\" Hendrichsen fails to adequately address the presuppositions and internal structures of the church that inhibit true discipleship.	2003-08-07
US	51388751	R3Q986UMFNFZBC	1881273199	612699043	Baby Busters: Disillusioned Generation	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Good book, but a little dated	Like it or not, they are here to stay. This is the message of Barna's Baby Busters. In typical Barna style this book is a lucid and highly readable statistical analysis of the \\"Buster\\" generation and how they differ form the Boomer and Builder generations. The message is clear; it cannot be business as usual if the church is going to reach this disillusioned generation. <br />Barna's strength is his gift to communicate complicated and mundane statistics in such a way that they compel us to read on. He is not content to merely inform us of the Buster's attitudes, he also draws insightful analysis of what these statistics mean. It is hard to find fault with Barna's work; he has accomplished a very difficult task. To stand back and nit-pick his work would be like an armchair quarterback. It's easy to criticize when you are not on the field with five 300 pound linemen ready to crush the life out of you. The statistics, however, can be a little overwhelming. The fault, however, may lie with the reader more than with the book.	2003-08-04
US	51388751	R3AES7WST50BO	0268000735	16932281	Dedication And Leadership	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Truly, a transformational book	This is truly a fascinating book. In it, Mr. Hyde takes us into the inner working of the Communist Party in which he was a member for more than twenty years.  With utter clarity, he shows us that the dedication of the average communist worker was not the result of brain washing, but was the result of exceptional leadership.  Throughout this excellent book Hyde contrasts the weak and anemic leadership styles of the church with its corresponding weak following, to the strong leadership of the Communist Party and their dedicated following.<br />I was especially impressed by the first part of the book where Hyde takes the reader step by step though the process by which a young communist recruit is trained to be a leader of men. High expectations (you are joining an elite organization) and high purpose (you are going to make a difference in the lives of men) combine to get to form the foundation of dedication. The only apparent weakness of the book is it's \\"Britishness.\\"  The Brits do write in a style that is difficult for their American cousins to follow.<br />This book is transformational.  Everything I have learned about leadership dove tails right into what Hyde is saying: The need for public witness, ministry before training, life application teaching, strict accountability, high expectations, beginning with felt needs, a commitment o excellence, are all themes common to great leadership.	2003-08-04
US	51388751	R3A3CNRC0QV4VR	0785266666	716063546	Developing the Leader Within You	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the Best!	Finally, someone has written a a book about leadership that actually teaches how to lead.  Maxwell give us practical hands on advise on how to be a leader in a succinct and readable form. In ten chapters he leads the read through the necessary steps for effective leadership.  <br />Maxwell takes nothing for granted.  Not only does he lay down principles and techniques, but unlike most leadership books, he also tells us the assumptions that they are based on.  Developing the Leader Within You has proven to be one of the most helpful books I have read.	2003-08-04
US	51388751	ROI9QSYP2GXZT	1556612311	387362605	A Church for the 21st Century	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Dated, but not without value	This is an insightful look at what the church must do to survive into the twenty-first century.  Anderson's premise is that the church is in the midst of a major transitional phase and the congregations that survive this transition will be the ones who recognize the change and adjust to it.  Those who cling to the old ways will suffer decline and eventual death.  This change is the result of profound culture and economic upheavals that are happening in our world today which involve a paradigm shift- a new way of looking at the world<br />Perhaps the greatest strength of Anderson's book is his refusal to give pat answers to complex problems. He reminds us that geography, demography and local culture must all be taken into account when developing a strategy for change.  Such change is not compromising with the world, but fulfilling God's holy prose for the church.  <br />The doom and gloom economic analysis at the beginning of the book was enough to make me put it down and not read it.  I am glad, however that I read the book.  Despite this flaw, it is an excellent book and gives insightful analysis of what we must do to survive into the 21st century	2003-08-04
US	51388751	R3EORPMCMJDQIO	0800753321	163301464	Beyond Church Growth	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Insightful book from the trenches of church growth	It is Logan's thesis that church growth is much more than an increase in attendance rather, it is measured by the ministry of the church, it's impact on the surrounding community and it's ability to reproduced daughter churches. In this excellent book, Logan gives us ten key principles that are necessary to develop a dynamic, growing church and specific action plans to help implement this task.<br />After nearly failing in his own church planning efforts and being unable to find any written resources to tell him how to plant and grow a church, Logan vowed that if he ever succeeded he would write this book. <br />There are three chapters that stand head and shoulders above the rest.  The first is on pastoral leadership. Using a sport's team motif, he lays out step-by-step what a pastor must do to build a winning team.  Second, is the chapter on worship in which he states that worship must be modeled by the staff (no matter how uncomfortable one feels) until the congregation catches the vision.  Finally, the chapter on disciple making remained me of this valuable need.	2003-08-04
US	51388751	R3QBBT3XRMXPJN	0802467997	34540024	Spiritual Leadership (Commitment To Spiritual Growth)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	An Oldie, but a goodie	Over five years ago a friend gave me a copy of Spiritual Leadership and it sat unread in my bookcase until I was compelled to read it for a graduate class.  Too bad, it is an excellent book that presents the biblical basis for strong pastoral leadership. I especially appreciated the emphasis he puts on the role of the Holy Spirit in the life of the Christian leader. True spiritual leadership is not the result of natural charisma, but results from one giving his or her life totally to God. <br />As I read though it, I was constantly amazed at the amount of Scripture containing leadership principles which I had overlooked in my studies of the Bible.  The style, however, was difficult for me to get use to.  Although I do not recall any specific place where his nationality is mentioned, he seems to be British, perhaps explaining his style.<br />Being converted, trained and preaching within the Christian Churches/churches of Christ, this book has given me great biblical insight into the subject of anointed leadership.  Traditionally, Christian Church pastors have been very weak, serving at the discretion of the board in a chaplain role with every pastoral decisions, no matter how small, needing board approval.  Woe to the pastor who showed the slightest sense of godly independence.  This weak role has doomed many of our churches to a mediocre stagnation.  The emphasis on anointed leadership is just what I needed to head.  Spiritual leaders are appointed by our sovereign God. We can truly say, \\"I am here neither by selection of an individual nor election of a group, but by the appointment of Almighty God.\\"	2003-08-04
US	51388751	ROFIIGJ5FVJCE	0830714618	687835674	The Seven Laws of Christian Leadership: How to Inspire People to Follow When You Are Called to Lead	Books	1	1	3	N	N	Why did they publish this book?	I was very disappointed in this book. Being familiar with some of Hocking's earlier works, I was expecting a book of greater depth and quality.  This book is a reprint of an earlier work and it seems as if the publisher just added divisions (i.e., the seven laws) as a new marketing gimmick to make more money.<br />Reading it was not a complete waste of time. Unlike some books on leadership, Hocking recognizes that there are different styles of successful leadership.  The few pages dedicate to the cause of resistance to authority (no job descriptions, no follow through, no explanations, showing favoritism and demanding extra work without asking permission) was excellent.  I also appreciated his exegesis on the role of woman in leadership; the distinction between women being in submission to their husbands and not to men in general was excellent.<br /> I asked myself this question after read the book: If I had read this book five years ago, would it have made a major impact on my ministry?  The answer is no. It was poorly written and should be withdrawn from publication.	2003-08-04
US	51388751	R2CHWIJPUDORBN	1576736512	108031875	Lifestyle Evangelism: Learning to Open Your Life to Those Around You	Books	3	7	19	N	N	A dissenting voice	Aldrich's thesis is that a Christian's life style will predispose the non-Christian to listen to this or her words and then, hopefully, they can be persuaded to accept Christ. This method of evangelism is different than confrontational evangelism where the Christian confronts another with the demands of the gospel <br />Studies have shown that Life Style Evangelism just doesn't work. Thomas Rainer's book, Effective Evangelistic Churches, demonstrated that few of these churches use Aldrich's methodology. Why? Because it is too easy to be nice- in order for people to come to know Christ they must be confronted with the gospel. Rainer demonstrates it is not necessary to spend months, if not years, building relationship with people before we share the gospel. Nevertheless, it is not without value and would be a valuable addition to your library.	2003-08-04
US	51388751	R3U6ELOGRSIVLT	0405002335	150172520	Christian System	Books	1	18	33	N	N	Response to Reviewer Sam	The use of the word clergy in my review was Campbells not mine.  An avid reader of Campbell, Richardson and other Restoration authors would know that these men used the word clergy to describe professional, denominational ministers.  I was merely using Campbells nomenclature to describe Campbells argument.  Oh, yes, I read the Bible for myself.  I am an avid Bible student, reading it from cover to cover at least a dozen times.  <br />I find it interesting that you focus on the one minor aspect of my review leaving my criticisms of Campbell unanswered:  Campbells elevation of reason over revelation; the Lockean philosophical underpinnings of his theology; an view of the Holy Spirit which seems more influenced more by the Enlightenment than the writings of Paul (come to think of it, Campbells view of the Holy Spirit is almost deitist!); the influence of the American Revolution and American democratic traditions in his understanding (I dont dare use interpretation) of the Bible; and his use of non-biblical words such as office to describe ministry and the implications this practice had in bringing into the Restoration churches such non-biblical practices and activities such as church boards, elections,  and committees which have turned the focus of the church from ministry to maintenance.  <br />I am sorry, but Campbell is not Saint Paul. He was a man who was brilliant, but flawed.  His passion for New Testament Christianity is to be commended, but if we cannot recognize and deal with the flaws, contradictions and mistakes Campbell made, the Restoration Movement becomes the Restoration Monument and our churches will continue to decline both in attendance and influence.	2003-08-03
US	51388751	R15VHG9VGM378A	0440503248	145624771	Leadership Is an Art	Books	3	4	16	N	N	Not my cup of tea	Max Depree basic theme is that although there are leadership principles to be learned, there is a certain mysticism about leadership that is more tribal than scientific and more a weaving of relationships than a amassing of leadership.<br />Depree talks about diversity, issues of the heart and spirit, integration, being vulnerable and empowerment, but he does so as a business man who realizes that the purpose of a business is to make a profit.  Depree discovered that by taking care of his employees, and making them owners in the process he can achieve greater employee loyalty, more creativity, and hence, greater prophets.  The danger is that non-businessman (i.e., politicians and pastors) will take these noble ideas and abdicate their leadership.	2003-08-01
US	51388751	R1X0D86O29I2RS	1556616651	459846139	Dying for Change	Books	3	1	1	N	N	An Oldie, but a Goodie	The premise of this book is that the vast majority of American Protestant churches and para-church organizations have either plateaued or are declining in membership because they cannot or will not meet the vast sociological changes that confront our society.  Anderson does three basic things: First, he explains the changes that are reshaping our society.  Second, he lays out the spiritual and sociological changes the church now faces.  Finally, he pervasively argues that the church must beet these challenges head-on in order to survive.<br />Although this is a well written book, it's real strength begins with chapter seven. It is in this chapter that he begins to detail how we should meet these changes. Perhaps the most insightful observation is the most obvious: change will occur whether we like it or not.  The job of the church is to determine it's purpose, to separate the non-negotiables from the negotiables, and then make a decision and act.<br />I also appreciate his insight in his analysis of decision-making.  There is a time to decide, but we tall tend to debate and procrastinate.  Anderson lays it on the line when he says we should define the issue, get the facts, consider the alternatives, and then act.	2003-08-01
US	51388751	R1UBCDXDNRLL8R	0781438853	847334326	Be the Leader You Were Meant to Be: Growing into the Leader God Called You to Be	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Ho Hum, I've read better	The author is the director of evangelism for the Navigators and a combat marine veteran of WWII.  These two experiences have shaped his view of leadership. Unlike many other books on leadership, Eims has structured his book sole on leadership and management principles taken from the Bible.<br />His belief that any pastor can be a better leader is the chief strength of this book. Eims points out that the source of spiritual leadership is not found in natural charisma, but in the infilling presence of God; thus, leaders in the church must be men of faith before anything else. They must set the example before the congregation of what it means to be a Christian.<br />There were some significant weaknesses in this book.  There were just too many sermons.  Page after page is devoted to biblical illustrations.  For instance, in chapter nine over three pages of biblical exposition are devoted to Moses resolving conflicts.<br />It was an OK book, I've read better.	2003-08-01
US	51388751	R2PKZF7TKSO34R	0310544718	219504263	Descending Into Greatness	Books	1	4	11	N	N	Not one of Bill's best	After reading this book I have only one question: Why in the world did he write it. In it Hybels weaves a sermon based on Philippians 2 with anecdotal stories of the meaning of childlike humility.  It is Hybels' thesis that only through the intentional decision to move down in the world's eyes does one achieve true greatness.  <br />Despite a grand biblical them the book is fatally flawed and full of contradictions in its interpretation of the so-called decade of \\"greed and decadence\\" of the 1980's.  Here are just a few of the problems:<br />When he speaks of the poor getting poorer, could not this be the result of the failed polices of 30 years of liberalism?  Could not the breakdown of lifestyle he bemoans be traced back to the advent of the pill, the sexual revolution and liberal social engineering rather than Reagan's economic policies?  Does he think that we would have faired better under the economic policies of Jimmy Carter with an 18% inflation rate and a failed economy?  What would be the plight of the poor under those conditions?  Does everybody in this book suffer from codependency?  Could the miracle of Willow Creek happen without the decade of greed and decadence?  Was not the church built on the tithes and offerings of all those greedy Yuppies?<br />During the `80's Hybels was drawing a salary of $50,000.  Why didn't he cut his salary in half if he was so concerned about greed and decadence?<br />Do yourself a favor and your blood pressure (if you are a Ronald Reagan fan) and read some other book.  It is not one of Bill's best.	2003-08-01
US	51388751	RCSXRNOR7KMEE	0830822763	240895681	Evangelism Outside the Box: New Ways to Help People Experience the Good News	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Great Book	It is the author's premise that if the church is going to reach the postmodern generation it will have to use new methods of evangelism. He contends, and rightly so, that may of the forms, structures and practices that may have been effective in the past, are no longer so.  <br />The author does an effective job in defining the postmodern mindset. His discussion on classical, medieval, modern and postmodern thinking is excellent, it helps the reader put postmodernism in the larger context of the history of thought. <br />I have to admit, I liked this book. Unlike Reid's Radically Unchurched, this book was a gripper for me. Perhaps those who are familiar with postmodernism may have found this book a little redundant, but for aging boomers, it was excellent. <br />I liked Richardson's discussion on John Wesley's methodology and how it can be of use in reaching postmodern generation. Also pertinent was his discussion on St. Patrick and the Celtic mind vs. the Roman mind in evangelism.  These discussions move the reader past ethereal theory to the actual nuts and bolts practice of evangelism.  I have to admit that the evangelistic model given at the end of the book seemed a little confusing to me.  But I accepted it as a challenge to get to know the postmodern mindset.	2003-08-01
US	51388751	R1U75KBKLTYHW2	0440503248	145624771	Leadership Is an Art	Books	4	0	2	N	N	OK, so you don't have to cut throats to succeed in business	Max Depree hit a home run with this small, but persuasive book.  His basic theme is that although there are leadership principles to be learned, there is a certain mysticism about leadership that is more tribal than scientific and more a weaving of relationships than a amassing of leadership.<br />Depree talks about diversity, issues of the heart and spirit, integration, being vulnerable and empowerment, but he does so as a business man who realizes that the purpose of a business is to make a profit.  Depree discovered that by taking care of his employees, and making them owners in the process he can achieve greater employee loyalty, more creativity, and hence, greater profits.  The danger is that non-businessman (i.e., politicians and pastors) will take these noble ideas and abdicate their leadership.	2003-08-01
US	51388751	R10XLW66D9U45K	B00008RWAI	680967816	ICE MASTER, THE: THE DOOMED 1913 VOYAGE OF THE KARLUK	Books	5	0	0	N	N	You gotta read this book!	I cannot think of a better way to survive a summer heat wave than by reading this book.  By the time you're halfway through it, you will be pulling a wool blanket over you and having a cup of hot chocolate. It is that good.<br />Like Shackelton's doom voyage at the South Pole, this is a story of courage, survival and leadership as a polar expedition gets trap in the ice of the Artic Sea north of Alaska.  It is a story of hero's and villains, of courage and cowardice, but most of all it is a story of leadership.  <br />It is the year 1913 and H.M.C.S.  Karluk embarks on one of the last voyages of discovery in the Artic Ocean.  The ship becomes trapped in the ice and the expedition's leader, Vilhjalmur Stefansson abandons the ship, and it's crew and the members of the expedition. The rest of the story is a tale of survival as the ship's captain Robert Bartlett leads his men against impossible odds to survive the artic winter.  <br />In an age when loyalty wanes, and everyone is looking after their own interest, this is a story of how real leaders lead.  The contrast between the two leaders could not be more apparent:  Stefhansson who can only think of his own fame and Bartlett who thinks of nothing but his crew.  You gotta read this book.	2003-07-31
US	51388751	RLEEXWAIH9VQT	1569553343	951980747	Conspiracy of Kindness: A Refreshing New Approach to Sharing the Love of Jesus	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Evangelism for the Evangelistically imparied	Ok, I admit it. I am evangelistically impaired.  For years I justified my inaction my telling myself that evangelism just wasn't my gift.  I countered my inactivity by hiring associate pastors who were evangelistic.  The few attempts I did make were embarrassing failures.  Sjogren's book helped change my ministry.  By doing simple acts of kindness, we influenced our friends and neighbors for Christ, and yes, even won some souls for Jesus.<br />Sjogren's thesis is simplicity in itself.  Do acts of kindness towards people we don't know, and couple it a simple gospel message, i.e., \\"Showing God's love in a practical way, no strings attached.\\"  It works.<br />Any pitfalls?  A few. There is no need to repeat the insightful critiques given in previous reviews, but we found that there were a few pitfalls we had to work hard to avoid.  There is a tendency when performing these acts of kindness not to link the gospel message with the act.  One of my team members when delivering pizzas to the firehouse announced, \\"We just want to thank you for doing a great job.\\" No mention of Jesus. No mention of God's love.  No mention of the local church that gave the pizza.  As far as I was concerned, it was sixty bucks out the window.<br />Another pitfall is that in small communities you can run the well dry.  Our little town has a population of only 1500, and we soon developed a reputation as the \\"pop\\" people (we gave away a lot of Coke) that year.  Hence, we are no longer using \\"Acts of Kindness' as our primary evangelism tool.  We  are much more direct now, but we are grateful for Sjogren for helping us start down the evangelism road.	2003-07-25
US	51388751	RC82B5XH1SLFT	1569553343	951980747	Conspiracy of Kindness: A Refreshing New Approach to Sharing the Love of Jesus	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Evangelism for the Evangelistically imparied	Ok, I admit it. I am evangelistically impaired.  For years I justified my inaction my telling myself that evangelism just wasnt my gift.  I countered my inactivity by hiring associate pastors who were evangelistic.  The few attempts I did make were embarrassing failures.  Sjogrens book helped change my ministry.  By doing simple acts of kindness, we influenced our friends and neighbors for Christ, and yes, even won some souls for Jesus.<br />Sjogrens thesis is simplicity in itself.  Do acts of kindness towards people we dont know, and couple it a simple gospel message, i.e., Showing Gods love in a practical way, no strings attached.  It works.<br />Any pitfalls?  A few. There is no need to repeat the insightful critiques given in previous reviews, but we found that there were a few pitfalls we had to work hard to avoid.  There is a tendency when performing these acts of kindness not to link the gospel message with the act.  One of my team members when delivering pizzas to the firehouse announced, We just want to thank you for doing a great job. No mention of Jesus. No mention of Gods love.  No mention of the local church that gave the pizza.  As far as I was concerned, it was sixty bucks out the window.<br />Another pitfall is that in small communities you can run the well dry.  Our little town has a population of only 1500, and we soon developed a reputation as the pop people (we gave away a lot of Coke) that year.  Hence, we are no longer using ?cts of Kindness as our primary evangelism tool.  We  are much more direct now, but we are grateful for Sjogren for helping us start down the evangelism road.	2003-07-25
US	51388751	R1W4YLJX3KO9WE	0310236487	256162302	Surprising Insights from the Unchurched and Proven Ways to Reach Them	Books	5	6	7	N	N	This Book Will Change Your Ministry	If you want to know what you must do to reach the unchurched, read this book.  It literally changed the way that I viewed ministry. OK, there are a few of you out there that got this evangelism thing down pat.  So, this book is not for you; but for the rest of us it is an invaluable resource.  It is Rainers thesis that much of the church growth research on the unchurched population is invalid.  He reasons, and rightly so, that most of the unchurched interviewed in countless polls over the last thirty years will never step inside the doors of a church.  Instead, Rainer interviewed the recently unchurched, that is, those who have been unchurched for ten or more years and have recently crossed the line into church.<br />What did he find out? That many of the issues that concern us about reaching the unchurched, dont bother the unchurched.  For instance, how many pastors have fought to change their church name to make it more appealing to the unchurched?  Surprise! The name of the church is not an issue with the unchurched.  Another surprise:  Remember the advice that the church growth experts gave us? Location, location, location.  How many millions, if not billions of dollars have been spent relocating church buildings to make them more accessible to the unchurched? Relocation may help transfer growth, but Rainers research demonstrates that location is NOT a factor in reaching the unchurched.  I wont give any more of these surprises away, but Rainer slays one sacred church growth cow after another.  Perhaps the most significant finding he found was on the issue of pastoral leadership.  His findings on how effective evangelistic pastors spend their time compared to non-effective evangelistic pastors tells it all.  I changed my schedule.  <br />But prophets are without honor in their own country.  Many pastors will read this book, get mad and write bad reviews.  This pastor repented and changed his ministry.	2003-07-25
US	51388751	R20PHQYS19CRP1	0785275355	827826234	The Winning Attitude: Your Pathway to Personal Success	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Need an attitude adjustment? Read this book	Thank you Mr. Maxwell for writing this book, it is sorely needed in the church today.  Learning the hard way, I discovered years ago that a negative attitude is a church killer.  People, especially baby boomers and busters will not stay at a church where the pastor does not have a winning attitude.<br />The greatest strength in this book is found in Maxwell's optimism.  A winning attitude does not have to be the exclusive property of those who have natural charisma, but can be developed by anyone who is willing to pay the price.  Maxwell, not only informs the reader how to develop a winning attitude, but also gives the reader personal application guides to help the reader put what he has just read into action.  Are there any weaknesses in this book? Perhaps so, but they elude me.  What Maxwell says is so essential for successful leadership that this book is a must read for those leaders who struggle with their attitude.	2003-07-23
US	51388751	R2IXM5NS6JM9J3	031024823X	911982168	Courageous Leadership	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Buy This Book!	I have read a lot of books on leadership and I have read a lot of Hybles writings, but this simply is the best.  For a Maxwellite this is a conclusion not easily made.  This book should be must reading for every pastor, ministerial student and lay leader. In fact, if your Bible College or seminary does not require you to read it, sue them for malpractice.  It is that good. <br />Courageous Leadership is a clarion call for pastors to step up to the plate and lead, to have the courage and passion not to abdicate leadership to church boards, committees or to every Tom, Dick and Harriet of the church.  Hybles cuts to the quick: leaders get things done. If you are not getting things done, if you are not moving people toward a goal you are not a leader; and as a pastor if you are not getting things done you will soon lose credibility and your followers will lose heart. <br />Chapter Eight, A Leader?s Sixth Sense will transform your decision-making.  Often leaders have to make difficult decisions with limited information that have the potential to make or break their ministry.  Too often pastors, who by definition are like cocker spaniels- they like to be liked, put off their decision making until they have all the information and the outcome seems assured.  What these pastors do not realize that by doing so they have, once again, abdicated leadership.  If you are a pastor, or even a businessman who is in a position of leadership, BUY THIS BOOK.	2003-07-22
US	51388751	R238JP7XC8YS2Q	0830716017	479131158	The Power of Vision: How You Can Capture and Apply God's Vision for Your Ministry	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Need Vision- Read this book	This book is an invaluable addition to any pastors library.  Though brief, it gives a concise and pragmatic look at what vision is and how to implement it.  Barna chips away at our misconceptions concerning vision and argues persuasively that it is the one indispensable ingredient for a growing church.  Pastors who have a well-defined vision and who are able to articulate it to their congregations grow their churches, those without it do not. <br />The books greatest strength is Barnas lucid style. I appreciate his way of dealing with each objection that is raised to vision he destroys each with irrepressible logic.  Barna disarms the reader whose preconceptions about vision would have torpedoed anything he was trying to communicate.<br />But the books greatest strength is also its greatest weakness; it left me hungering for more.  Although I can understand why he wants us to go to extraordinary lengths to know yourself (pg. 80 ff) the series of forty-one essay questions that each pastor should ask himself is a little much. It would take an extraordinary person not to become lost in the process before discovering the end.  <br />The book gave me hope.  I have always known that the reason one church grows and another does not is because of pastoral leadership, rather than congregational indifference. What I did not know was why.  Was it merely that some pastors have a natural charisma that others do not? Or was it something more fundamental, namely vision?  It also helped me overcome the old enabler model of leadership I was taught in seminary.  Vision comes from an inspired pastor and then trickles down from the top and not from  committee consensus. It is an outstanding book.	2003-07-22
US	51388751	R2UMI1QGJ2PGTM	0896933938	657115760	Sharpening the Focus of the Church (Biblical renewal series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	It will sharpen your focus of the church!	Getz successfully attempts to set forth a biblical model for the church. He does so by looking at the church through the lens of Scripture, of history and finally, of culture.  Throughout the book he emphasizes his dictum: People leads to function which in turn leads to form.  That is, wherever people are they will be doing something together, which necessitates form. He points out that whereas the Bible gives us considerable information on function (i.e., preaching), it is relatively silent on form (how we put together a sermon).  <br />The strength of this book is Getz's solid exegesis of Scripture. Although it is impossible to set aside all the presuppositions we have when we come to the Bible, Getz succeeds better than most. I was especially appreciative of his analysis of the first century culture and how difficult it would be for us to mimic first century forms.<br />Although Getz deliberately chooses to concentrate on exegesis, I would have like to see him look at church and culture in more depth. He was also somewhat ambiguous as to the plurality of elders in the local church. On one hand he argues the plurality of elders is due to the numerous house churches located in a city, on the other hand he also seems to argue that individual congregations should have a plurality of elders. <br />Coming from a Christian Church/church of Christ background, I really appreciated his in-depth look at the church.  Traditional Christian Church theology argues that not only does the New Testament give us the functions of the church, but the forms as well.  This book certainly \\"sharpened\\" my focus of the church by helping be discern between culture and biblical absolutes.	2003-07-22
US	51388751	R2XAYYMY1KUY4X	0940232480	707766997	The Silas Diary (First Century Diaries)	Books	1	7	20	N	N	To much hype, not enough documentation	Rutz makes a passionate argument for \\"open worship\\" as a means of restoring biblical worship and to return the church to what it is suppose to be, a dynamic, worshipping and growing entity.  He traces the current woes of the church back to the legalization of Christianity under the Roman Emperor Constantine. It was then, he reasons, that Christians became spectators as buildings were built and a professional clergy system arose. It is Rutz's premise that until the church restores open worship, the world will never be won to Christ nor will Christians experience dynamic passionate worship. <br />As I read the book, I realized that Rutz hit the nail right on the head concerning jammed church schedules, boring worship serves and joyless Christianity. He rightly obverses that if biblical worship and fellowship do not happen during Sunday morning services, they will not happen at all. The greatest strength of this book was the appendix. It was there that he left his irreverent humor behind and made his most effective case for open worship to affect world evangelism.<br />Although his insights into worship and the church are good, his human and lack of documentation interfered with the book's effectiveness; he makes fantastic claims and precious little evidence.  For instance, he claims that pre-Constantine Christian art worked used the feeding of the 5000 to depict the Lord's Supper and that only after Constantine did it show Jesus with the twelve.  What are his sources?  How valid is the evidence?  Although this book did give me insight into the perils of open worship and some commonsense methods of how to handle them; nevertheless, I found the book of little value.	2003-07-22
US	51388751	R2XXMF5CY2LAAI	092754587X	308235999	The Leadership Paradox (From Loren Cunningham)	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Disappointing	Thankfully, Gunderson avoids writing another tome on the three pitfalls of leadership, wealth, women and glory and strikes at the heart of what it means to be a servant leader.  The book is based around ten core servant leader principles.<br />It is an easy read, but a profound one.  Denny points to the failure of church leadership to put into practice the teaching and example of servant leadership left to us by Jesus.  For instance, his observation of how pastors quickly form a pecking order as being in direct violation of the biblical injunction not to show favoritism.  This was not an isolated insight.  In each chapter Denny takes the gloves off to point you the glaring contradictions between what occurs in church leadership and the teaching of Jesus.<br />This book is not without fault.  Denny does not address his experience in the collapse of North Seattle Christian Center under the weight of the unbiblical Discipleship Movement of the 1970s.  That experience colors every page of this book.  <br />He does not understand leadership, again and again he defines leadership in terms of position and title.  Leadership, as John Maxwell says, is influence: nothing more, nothing less. Those who influence for good or ill, are leaders whether they have a title or not.  Positional leadership is the lowest level of leadership. <br />His logic is flawed.  He commits the informal fallacy of building a straw man.  A straw man is an argument that bears little resemblance to reality, but can be readily knocked down.  Let me give you two examples: The hierarchal chart of a typical denomination found on page 27, pray tell, where does this structure exist?  It doesnt.  Yes, we tend to want to establish a hierarchy, but it is seldom that simple.    Another straw man is the argument that Bible colleges and seminaries teach an authoritarian model of leadership.  He fails here in two points.  First, most Bible colleges dont teach leadership at all, authoritarian or otherwise.  Second,the majority who do, more often than not teach the enabler model of passive, indirect leadership. <br />There is no such thing as a leadership vacuum. There is no such thing a team leadership without a leader (cf. Chapter Ten).  Even in the business community where team leadership is extensively used, there is always a leader.  The facilitator (enabler)  model of leadership has proven to be a failure.  Leaders lead. <br />Nevertheless, the book was helpful.   It reminded me again of the various ways we can exclude people, seek after self-glory and dominate others without realizing what we are doing. The chapter on tolerance and acceptance was a revelation.  In this age of political correctness, it is must reading for every Christian.	2003-07-21
US	51388751	R3FNWJXEZVGXZL	1560159626	139579307	Leadership A to Z: A Guide for the Appropriately Ambitious (Wiley Audio)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	O'Toole his a home run with this one!	The subtitle to this book explains the its purpose: \\"A Guide to the Appropriately Ambitious.\\"  The author lays out twenty-four aspects of leadership that he has gleaned from other authors and his own experience.  The author's focus is not on leadership theory, but on what leaders actually do.  It is a compelling read.<br />I liked it.  This book is a compelling read.  Since the author focuses on the pragmatic aspects of leadership, he gives the reader the necessary tools to hone his or her leadership skills.  The format of the book, although difficult to follow at first, lends itself to quick review.  Successful leaders will find this book helpful as a review of the principles which brought them success.  For those who wish to become leaders, this is the best resource I have found.  It clearly states what leadership is all about in a format that is easy to read and digest.   The \\"no holes barred\\" approach to illustrations helps the reader see and understand the principles elucidated as   O'toole names the names and tells the stories of corporate and non-profit leaders whose successes and failures he demonstrates. <br />Aside from a good review of the principles that I am trying to instill into my life, it has helped me in three ways.  First, the discussion between strategic change and change management was very helpful.  The author points out that every organization is faced with constant change, and change cannot be managed.  Change management is short sighted and issue orientated, whereas strategic change looks for the long term and seeks to make change a part of the culture of the organization.  Second, I appreciated the author's repeated emphasis on the courage of leadership.  Being a leader puts one at risk, and as O'Toole succinctly demonstrates, most \\"leaders\\" would rather play it safe.  Unless the leader is willing to risk failure and humiliation, he or she will never taste the fruits of leadership. Third, I will be using this book as a primer for my staff to teach them leadership principles.  There are few books with such broad scope as this one.  <br />How does this book help a pastor of a small church?  Some church leaders would balk at this book because the author is looking for the \\"appropriately ambitious\\" and deals with secular business.  Yet, leadership is leadership.  If we as pastors do not have the engine of ambition beating in our hearts for the gospel of Christ, what in the world are we doing in the pulpit?  And as long as our Bible Colleges and seminaries ignore the leadership issue and keep training in the \\"pastoral model\\", the church in the USA will continue its decline.  Leadership is the key to turning the seeming inevitable decline in church attendance around.  Until our seminaries and Bible colleges teach leadership, pastors will have to turn to the business community for help.	2003-07-21
US	51388751	R3AJ5EIZ7DWZ6Z	0805454020	275588303	Effective Evangelistic Churches: Successful Churches Reveal What Works and What Doesn't	Books	5	15	15	N	N	WOW!  A must read for every pastor	Every pastor who cares about evangelism should read this book.  By far it is the most comprehensive book on how to grow a church I have read.  The author surveyed and interviewed the pastors of over 500 churches to determine what works, and what doesnt work. Rainer doesnt waste our time, but starts off by documenting ten surprises he uncovered about effective evangelistic churches.  In a nutshell, much of what has been promulgated by the church growth moment is wrong.  Such things as event evangelism, revivals, and traditional outreach programs are still very effective, whereas some of the newly touted methodologies such as weekday ministries (childcare, MOPS, etc) are not.  The two chapters that I appreciated the most were Chapter 5 (The Sunday School Factor) and Chapter 11 (Miscellaneous Matters and Important Lessons).  In them I learned that Sunday is not dead (once again, contrary to the mantra of many church growth experts) and that pastoral leadership is essential if a church is going to be evangelistically effective and that leadership cannot be delegated. <br />Right off the bat, Rainer addresses the methodology issue.  Most pastors, myself included, were or are looking for the magic bullet, the one methodology that will change our churches.  The author points out that methodology is secondary to intentionality.  Just about any methodology will work if diligently pursued.<br />There are some weaknesses.  How in the world can a church with under 100 in attendance be considered evangelistically effective?  Sure they may baptize twenty-six people in a given year, but if they continued this for more than one year their attendance would increase to over 100.  Perhaps these small churches have evangelistic effective pastors.  I would have not included any church in the survey that wasnt evangelistic effective for at least three years.   Also, there is another factor that colors this book: only Baptist churches were surveyed.  This taints the authors research on such topics as worship.  It was no surprise to me that the vast majority of Baptist churches use blended or traditional worship services.  The problem is that some unsuspecting readers may assume that only blended or traditional worship services are evangelistically effective.  Despite these minor flaws, this is a wonderful book.  My only regret is that I didnt read it seven years ago when it was first published.	2003-07-21
US	51388751	R26G8S78MD4JDN	0609610570	431185442	Execution: The Discipline of Getting Things Done	Books	4	3	5	N	N	What Are These Guys Talking About?	I found this book to be excellent.  No, I am not a CEO of a fortune 500 company, but a pastor of a small rural church.  Sure, we're not doing billion dollar deals, but people are people and the principles of execution found in this book work no matter what size your company or non-profit organization is.  Sure, there were some chapters I suffered through; all the talk about Six Sigma was Greek to me; yet, I found the book intriguing. If you are a professional who is struggling in getting things done, this is well worth the read.  Take a chance, you might be pleasantly surprised.	2003-07-11
US	51388751	R29JBSNR95QNWG	0891097333	376532410	The Masculine Journey: Understanding the Six Stages of Manhood	Books	4	51	56	N	N	A Controversial Classic	A controversial classic on the nature of the male psyche, The Masculine Journey  looks at the six stages of manhood.  The author builds his thesis on the six Hebrew words used for man in the Old Testament.  It is the author's contention that manhood is a journey and that to be the men that God has called us to be, we must develop in our masculinity. <br />It is readable.  It may not be a lot to ask, but too many of these kind of books are poorly written.   For example, as I was reading The Masculine Journey, I was also reading Gordon Dalbey's Sons of the Father, the author's intents couldn't be more different.  Aside from being almost unreadable, Dalbey sees men as victims, wounded by their father's in search of their manhood; whereas Hicks recognizes father's wounding, refuses to make men victims of their upbringing.  Hicks is far more positive.<br />Although Hicks did try to avoid the cult of victimization he wasn't entirely successful.  His reliance on, and quoting of, authors of the men's movement dates this otherwise excellent book.  The men's movement authors convey a sense that men are adrift, not knowing which way to go and in doubt of their masculinity.  Perhaps some men are adrift, but not all.   Yes, there are father wounds, but not all men are wounded.  Other reviewers call into doubt the Hicks exegetical scholarship.   My Hebrew skills are inadequate to make a critical evaluation myself, but this should raise a flag of caution.  <br />This was an extremely useful book.  It helped me recognize the appropriateness of masculine behavior for each stage of life.  What behavior is appropriate for a thirty year old, may not be appropriate for a sixty year old.  The author also addresses the sexual issues in a way that few authors try; rather than skirting around the issue, he meets confronts it directly. The books also taught me about life's transitions.  As we age from young, to middle age, to elderly, we, as men, need to change our perception as to who a manis, and what a man does.	2003-07-11
US	51388751	RN7M8B6GL0L2F	0310250005	486097251	Building a Contagious Church	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Yawn. . . I did not finish it	I just could not quite finish this one.  Too bad, I was looking forward to gaining some powerful insights on how to build an evangelistic, i.e., contagious church.  Mittelberg lays out a step-by-step plan on how to build an evangelistic church.  It is perhaps one of the most comprehensive books on evangelism I have read.  But therein lies its weakness.<br />Very rarely does a step-by-step plan work.   I don't even think they worked at Willow Creek.  Life is not that easy.  The author assumes that the bright-eyed pastor who bought this book has the leadership abilities to turn his church around.  But in reality, even the most gifted evangelistic pastor will find it very difficult to motivate the flock as Mittleberg suggests.  <br />A more useful book building an evangelistic church would be Thom Rainer's books Surprising Insights from the Unchurched.  Nevertheless, you would profit from reading Mittelberg's book.	2003-07-11
US	51388751	R3FN2K7Y6OWX8H	0825436338	564128433	Radically Unchurched: Who They Are & How to Reach Them	Books	2	16	21	N	N	Disappointing	The book's subtitle explains its premise: who they are and how to reach them.  It is the author's contention, and rightly so, that the church is totally unprepared to reach the coming generation with the gospel of Christ, that its methods and means of reaching the radically unchurched are no longer effective.  After defining who the radically unchurched are, the author reviews methodological and means of evangelism which have proven effective with the radically unchurched. <br />The author deals brutally and honestly with the ineptness of the evangelical church and the head in the sand attitude it has concerning its declining attendance and influence on American culture.  Again and again, Reid drives home the point that things are not well with the evangelical church.  The best part of the book is the How to reach them part. The author really adds nothing new to the well-read reader of evangelism; rather, he surveys the methodologies that have proven successful and presents them to the reader, with the warning that copying methodically  without adaptation and a heart for evangelism will fail. <br />I did not like this book.  I had to force myself to read it through.  Yet, after doing so, I am glad that I did.  There is little or no original thought or research in it.  Sjogren's Conspiracy of Kindness, Rainer's Surprising Insights from the Unchurched, and Warren's Purpose Driven Church are all well quoted.  The author also has an anti-charismatic bias.  His ranting against Full Gospel churches on page 112 is shameful.  To accuse charismatic churches as not believing the Bible is sufficient in its historic doctrine is a gross misunderstanding of charismatic theology.  If my memory serves me right only one charismatic church, Brooklyn Tabernacle, was cited as a growth church, while dozens of Baptist churches were cited as growing.  <br />Reid helped me understand that my evangelistic training taught me to share Christ with people who shared my basic  values: a belief in God, reverence for the Bible, and a belief in ultimate right and wrong.  Today, the radically unchurched do not believe in God, have no regard for the Bible and hold to a subjective value system.  Reid points to Paul's sermon on Mars Hill for insight on how we can reach the radically unchurched.  When preaching to the pre-Christian Jews, Paul spoke of Jesus and fulfilled prophecy, but when he spoke to the pagans on Mars Hill, he started with the existence of God, and told of God as creator and judge.  The chapter on postmodernism is helpful.  He succinctly describes what post modernism is and how it affects the way we present the gospel of Christ.	2003-07-03
