US	51389157	R3BNDFNH4YKAH	0786915617	958867794	The Magehound (Forgotten Realms: Counselors & Kings, Book 1)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Where Mages fear to tread...	Once again, Elaine Cunningham returns to the lands of Faerûn, known to many as the Forgotten Realms.  Considered by many to be one of, if not the premier Realms author, we are once again reassured of her talent for  storytelling.<br />In \\"The Magehound\\", we receive the first serious look at  the lands of Halruaa since the age-old \\"Shinning South\\" Game supplement.   Before I picked it up, I was concerned whether a novel could maintain my  interest, and any semblance of consistency in a land so saturated with  magic.  Legends and tavern tales proclaim that even the lowliest barmaid  can wield a minor spell or two to lighten their load.  How then could a  problem of manageable scale arise and be solved in a matter of one novel?   Well, I am happy to say, it is and it is not.  I don't want to ruin  anything, but I think it was well managed in achieving some sort of  conclusion, while at the same time allowing enough questions to linger for  the next book in the series; as I was pleased to learn this was to be  series, as opposed to a one shot view of that fabled land.<br />The novel's  tone and voice are easy to follow, and make for a swift read.  The  characters are interesting, and while we only learn so much, the depth is  there, but as yet untapped; and if I can cling to her previous works as  evidence, I believe these characters will become as real as Arilyn and  Danilo. For that reason, and the fact I liked the story, I have to  recommend this title, give it a read.	2000-07-26
US	51389157	R3GXTLX710CGM1	0395974682	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	5	8	N	N	One ring to rule them, and in the darkness bind them...	Where does one begin?  To judge near perfection, all the while striving to place words in such a manner to draw the yet unchanged masses into our shared love affair, such a task is beyond my means, but my love for this  glorious tale drives me to make an effort despite the fact.<br />It is with  great regret that I admit waiting until my twenty-fifth year to have read  this literary masterpiece, and having claimed to be enamored with  fantasy-fiction.  Heresy, that's what it was, to have avoided this grand  tale in favor of lesser offerings when only my memories of that foul and  near blasphemous animated film version drove me away.  I am driven to  shame.<br />I will refrain from illuminating the history of the story, and its  author, as the information is available so readily in the \\"Editorial  Reviews\\" portion of this page.  Instead, I fear my review will remain in  the realm of the subjective, as opposed to an unbiased intellectual appeal;  sorry the story simply touches to deep for such a callous approach.  However, I would like to suggest that if you decide to purchase this  magnificent tale, I highly recommend the \\"Houghton Mifflin Co.\\" edition,  released in June 1999, an edition which claims to be the most accurate copy  to date.  More importantly, it is said Tolkien intended the three works:  \\"The Fellowship of the Ring\\", \\"The Two Towers\\", and \\"The Return of the  King\\" to be considered one work, not a trilogy as we have come to know  them.  Having the three divisions in one binding reinforces the continuity  of the tale as a whole, and I felt it greatly increased my veraciousness to  devour each skillfully placed word.<br />I am loath to reveal even the most  innocent and seemingly innocuous detail about the tale, for fear, my words  could steal any of the joy you find while reading Tolkien's words.  Yet,  you should understand that the tale follows in the days after \\"The Hobbit\\",  and that the meager forces of light must fight the insurmountable shadow of  evil.  An age is coming to an end and with it the wonder and majesty of  Middle-Earth.  If you have yet to read \\"The Hobbit\\", do so first for it  sows the seeds, which the \\"Lord of the Rings\\" skillfully harvests.  Tolkien's opus is, and will always remain a seminal work of our age, a  title none can afford deny themselves.<br />The author's gentle, but sweeping  touch resounds with a love for his creation.  The fullness of the  characters, and of the lands in which they live and die are so three  dimensional, so very tangible and full of vitality that it is nearly  impossible to refrain from growing emotionally involved.  Even the villains  are well developed.  Through dialogue and narration we become aware of  their motivations, giving renewed depth to the story and its events.<br />Even now, this masterwork is being translated to the silver screen (a  trilogy by \\"New Line Cinema\\"); read it now before you see the films, do not  deny yourselves the true wonder of Tolkien's mastery.evil.  An age is coming to an end and with it the wonder and majesty of  Middle-Earth.  If you have yet to read \\"The Hobbit\\", do so first for it  sows the seeds, which the \\"Lord of the Rings\\" skillfully harvests.  Tolkien's opus is, and will always remain a seminal work of our age, a  title none can afford deny themselves.<br />The author's gentle, but sweeping  touch resounds with a love for his creation.  The fullness of the  characters, and of the lands in which they live and die are so three  dimensional, so very tangible and full of vitality that it is nearly  impossible to refrain from growing emotionally involved.  Even the villains  are well developed.  Through dialogue and narration we become aware of  their motivations, giving renewed depth to the story and its events.<br />Even now, this masterwork is being translated to the silver screen (a  trilogy by \\"New Line Cinema\\"); read it now before you see the films, do not  deny yourselves the true wonder of Tolkien's mastery.	2000-07-26
US	51389157	R1ZXXETLO44HIR	0618002219	669379389	The Hobbit: or There and Back Again	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A hobbits holiday indeed!	When I was but a child, having seen no more than eight years my mother read to my siblings and I this most beloved of tales.  Amazing in both its simplicity and its scope Tolkien's Hobbit is a delight to readers of any  age, and should-as others have proposed-be read over and again, at  different stages of one's life.  It is in this humble reviewer's opinion  that it remains a jewel in the crown of fantasy literature, timeless in its  appeal and its applicability.<br />I am now in my twenties, and have only  recently re-read \\"The Hobbit\\", and while I am more critical of the book now  than I was when I was eight, I cannot in any way belittle or take away from  its effect.  While I read it, I fought against the constant exclaiming of  the characters, more often than not a sentence ends in \\"!\\".  However, once  I understood the simple, cheery, and kindhearted nature from which our  vantage point sprang, I embraced it.<br />\\"The Hobbit\\" or \\"There and Back  Again: a Hobbits Holiday\\" draws the reader into the first adventure of the  honorable Mr. Bilbo Baggins, a hobbit.  We are privy to his journey, along  with a band of Dwarves as they venture off across the Wilderlands in search  of treasure and nothing more than vengeance against the venerable and most  feared Smaug the Dragon.  No doubt, the story is familiar to you, but if  not, I will not be the one to ruin any of the suspense or wonder you will  behold.<br />This wonderful story is necessary for every respectable reader,  and I whole-heartedly recommend it to anyone of any age without remorse.  And I'll always take one thing away from it with me, best summed up in  these words: \\"If more of us valued food and cheer and song above hoarded  gold, it would be a merrier world.\\"  Indeed, I believe old Tolkien hit the  proverbial nail on the head.	2000-06-16
US	51389157	R3TIH76RW2D26X	078691436X	236158018	Beyond the High Road (Forgotten Realms: The Cormyr Saga, Book 2)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	History can hurt you	Cormyr, Faerûns forest kingdom, steeped in lore and pride.  Long has it stood against the shadows of evil, a bastion of hope against the evils of the world.  But, how is one to battle a shroud of evil from within, forged  by the nation itself over its long and storied history?  A year has passed  since King Azoun IV lay awaiting death, incapacitated by an assassin's  plot.  Cormyr has survived the near loss of her king, but untold evils lie  awaiting their opportunity to devour the lands unaware of the danger.   <br />\\"Beyond the High Road\\" is the second in the, thus far, marvelous Cormyr  Saga.  The first title, \\"Cormyr: a Novel\\" by Greenwood and Grubb,  functioned as a stand-alone title, this title does not.  In no way does  that diminish its value, or its success as a novel.   That is not to say it  requires you to read the precursor, but doing so will only serve to enhance  the plot and the depth to the characters, whereas it will become vitally  important to obtain and read the following title.  In regards to the  author, oft times Mr. Denning has been accused of \\"not doing his homework\\"  when it came to realms consistency-the prime example being a Shou Embassy  in Elversult-nevertheless, he's done his research for this title.  His  handling of the characters, and their personal voice and ambiance are  seamless with previous works.  His handling of such renowned characters as:  King Azoun IV, both of his daughters, and especially Vangerdahast, is  wonderful.  This is without a doubt his finest realms work to date, and not  to be missed.<br />Further, Tanalasta the much-maligned crown princess is  handled extremely well.  I cannot in good truth say I like her in the  slightest, or that I wish her upon the Cormyte people; but she is handled  with a consistency befitting her personality, and past representations.  It  is true, as another reviewer stated, I wouldn't mind her death, but she is  the least of my worries as I look forward to the third act in this saga,  this August's \\"Death of the Dragon\\" by Ed Greenwood and Troy Denning.  The  last chapters of this book leave me with many questions unanswered, but I  do not feel jaded, as though the answers are not forthcoming.  Moreover, if  you have waited until now to read this book I envy you even more.  If you  are an avid reader of all things Faerûnian, or merely a fan of fantasy  fiction, you will enjoy this title (along with the predecessor), I urge you  to order them now, you will not regret it.	2000-06-16
US	51389157	R3P6XI5J11BLEX	0786916273	25664145	Cloak and Dagger (Forgotten Realms)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	In the shadows they lurk	After months of anticipation, &quot;Cloak &amp; Dagger&quot; has arrived.  This work reveals, for the DM of course, some startling events in the lands of Faerun. This source book is filled with a myriad of realms lore and  information, as well as hooks for bringing these nefarious organizations to  play in your realms campaign.  For many of us, this is what we've been  waiting for, and calling to the powers-that-be about.  Finally, these  intrigue riddled organizations are made flesh for the cunning game master:  The Shadow Thieves, The Knghts of the Shield, The Iron Throne, and the  Night Masks to name only a few.  But more importantly, it reveals a great  shift in the balance.  What is it?  I won't ruin it, but I'll tell you it  has to do with the Zhentarim, and Manshoon himself!  If you're a Forgotten  Realms DM, and you want to spice up the intrigue in your campaign, even if  you don't like using power groups in your games, you owe it to yourself to  pick this up. You will not be sorry!	2000-06-02
US	51389157	R10VXB81VWDOTY	078690724X	435149600	CRUCIBLE: The Trial of Cyric the Mad (Forgotten Realms, Sequel to Prince of Lies)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Wickedly entertaining	For months after I'd heard rumor this title was being released I waited in anticipation for its arrival.  When it arrived I was not dissappointed.<br />Following after the events in &quot;Prince of Lies&quot;  by James Lowder, &quot;Crucible&quot; tells the tale of the eccentric  Malik, a Calishite merchant, and devoted worshipper of Cyric.  We watch as  he seeks out the Cyrinishad, followed closely by a seethingly angry Ruha, a  bedine witch made famous in &quot;Veiled Dragon&quot; also by Denning.  The  story is told as though Malik were the author, a tactic I found delightful.   Not only does it allow you to look into the mind of a villain, but his  narration in regards to the deities and other &quot;good guys&quot; is just  wonderful, and often funny.  <br />Any follower of this series of novels will  also delight in the further delving into power plays between deities within  the Forgotten Realms world. This title does a marvelous job of detailing  Jergal, Tyr, Helm, Mystra, Kelemvor, Talos, Mask, and especially Cyric.  We  witness as we are allowed a greater understanding of how the gods think,  and how they pine against other deities.  We also gain witness to the  growth of Kelemvor as a Fearunian god.  <br />Despite a pile of nay sayers  against this title, I suggest you give it a shot, it's a fun read, and a  good book.  However, if you're a staunch &quot;canon&quot; Realms fan,  remember this is written by Malik, if you don't like his history consider  it propoganda, but don't turn away from the book, it's worth the time.	2000-05-12
US	51389157	R2LRAVIZOT2NO2	0345348664	150650131	The Illearth War: The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book Two	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The story keeps getting better!	Disturbed by the intrusion of the Land into his sterile and predictable world, Thomas Covenant wrestles with the question of its validity and reality.  It was just a dream, a delusional episode meant to destroy his defense against the disease so tentatively arrested within him.  Yet, a  disturbing encounter in a nightclub and the out-of-the-blue call from his  ex-wife drive Covenant back to the Land, or was he again summoned, as the  Land would have him believe?<br />\\"The Illearth War\\", the second in the \\"First  Chronicles of Thomas Covenant Unbeliever\\", was a masterpiece of fantasy  writing.  Stephen R. Donaldson's voice and craft are impeccable, the depth  to the characters, to the twisted chain of events Covenant so wreaks havoc  upon are so water tight and touching.  To not fall in love with the land,  and grow to loath Foul and his Ravers is unimaginable.  The three  dimensionality of the characters and of their plight is amazing, a truly  polished gem amid the rubble.<br />The characters are immensely deep and  engrossing.  Elena, Mhoram, Bannor, Hile Troy, all of them are so well  developed you can envision them as living souls by their mere mention.   However, as before, Thomas Covenant refuses to believe.  It is his  inaction, his impotency for action that drives much of this tale.  On one  hand, I found such gut wrenching sympathy for him, and on the other such a  loathing for his inaction in the light of the beautiful Land and people he  so harmed.  I longed to switch places and do what he could not...<br />Adding to  the dilemma is Warmark Hile Troy.  Troy claims to hail from \\"reality,\\" a  claim the Unbeliever cannot accept, for if it proves true, it proves the  Lands existence; and he cannot accept that because it cries out in  conviction of his crimes against so many.  Despite my frustration with  Covenant's action, and further his inaction, this was a marvelous story and  I beseech you to read it!	2000-04-28
US	51389157	R1YLBA9EA62YJW	0345348672	150650131	The Power That Preserves (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 3)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Imposing despair	Once again, Thomas Covenant returns to the Land.  Once again, he struggles with his unbelief, with his conviction that he cannot both believe and survive.  He is a leper.  <br />When ur-Lord Covenant returns to the Land, he  finds that it is palled under the shroud of decay and ill health.  Has it  come to this, has his unbelief doomed the land he both loves so deeply and  at the same instant denies?  Can his sheer hate for Lord Foul awaken the  latent power of his white-gold ring?  These trials surface within \\"The  Power that Preserves\\".<br />I cannot stress it enough, this trilogy of novels,  \\"The First Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever\\", is one of the  pinnacles of fantasy writing.  Donaldson has both a mastery of style and  voice matched by few authors.  His vivid characters grip you and draw you  into the Land.  They almost force you to feel deep emotion about them.   Whether that emotion is love, hate, or in the case of the Unbeliever, sheer  frustrated anger tainted with unrelenting sympathy for those in his path,  you cannot help but be moved.  This series will remain a benchmark against  which I judge other novels, and other realities.  You owe it to yourself to  read this trilogy.	2000-04-28
US	51389157	R2K19D8GRZ47HH	0345348656	150650131	Lord Foul's Bane (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Unbelievable!  Truly fantastic...	Thomas Covenant, to me the name held no meaning, until my mother offered me \\"Lord Foul's Bane\\", the first title in the \\"First Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever\\", by Stephen R. Donaldson.  I laugh now, for from this point on I will look at all novels I read and measure them by this  standard, I can no longer imagine not knowing the Land and its wonderful  inhabitants.<br />Mr. Donaldson created this most amazing series when I was  but a baby, and though I thought I had grown, I can see from these  characters that I am yet a child.  The way in which they treat each other  and the land they call home is awe inspiring, such respect, and such love.   Then...then enters pestilence.<br />Thomas Covenant is not a hero, as others  have called him.  No, he is nothing of the sort; despite the fact the Lords  of Revelstone, and the other myriad of delightfully deep characters such  as: Saltheart Foamfollower the Giant, Lord Mhoram, and even Lena believe  him to be such.  No, he may be the protagonist, but he is no hero.  Thomas  Covenant is a Leper, and lepers cannot be heroes, or can they?  <br />Over any  title I have yet reviewed, I recommend to you this book and the two that  follow (The Illearth War, and The Power that Preserves).  Mr. Donaldson  delivers to the reader a marvelously deep world full of deep characters, it  will compel you to love each and every character; to marvel at their mercy  and capacity to stand in the face of despite and despair.  The only  exception will be Thomas Covenant, you will long to wring his neck at the  best of times and seek his blood at the worst.  To shake him in his  unbelief, and rend him limb from limb when he commits such vile acts upon  the people and the land, because \\"it's a delusion...it's not real!\\"  The real  question I found myself asking throughout the series was...is the land his  delusion?  Is it nothing more than his own impotency, an allegorical  struggle against his diseased body and mind?  I do not think Ihave found  an answer, but I have found a bursting love for the land, and for Mr.  Donaldson's writing voice and style.  I have yet to read the Lord of the  Rings (next on &quot;to do&quot; list), so I cannot lend an opinion on  whether this is a &quot;rip off&quot; of that glorified tale or not.   Nevertheless, I can tell you that in comparison to Tolkien's \\"The Hobbit\\",  Donaldson's style and voice are more mature, and of all around better  craft; as is the struggle in which the characters find themselves  embroiled.	2000-04-27
US	51389157	R3TDNQQXVZIKLU	0880387599	879198567	Waterdeep (Forgotten Realms:  Avatar Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	...and she's buying a stairway...to heaven	The stage has been set; the players are en route, only the curtain remains to be drawn.  In this, the epic conclusion to the Realms shattering Avatar trilogy we follow Kelemvor, Cyric, Adon, and Midnight toward their fated climax.  If you have not yet had the conclusion spoiled for you, plug your  ears and eyes, read no more until you have read this closing chapter to the  core trilogy.<br />Driven by their quest to return the Tablets of Fate to the  lord of Guardians, Helm, ending the strife that ravages Toril, our heroes  trek toward Waterdeep, the city of splendors.  However, not everyone wants  them to arrive with their prize, and those individuals will stop at nothing  to make sure their ends are accomplished.<br />I have read this title twice,  and I have to say, the second did not hold the same punch, mainly because I  knew about the epic conclusion.  Regardless, I believe this novel well  written, and I enjoyed the action that led toward the final showdown.  If  you read and enjoy this title, continue reading about the struggles of  these heroes in:<br />\\"Prince of Lies\\" by James Lowder and \\"Crucible: Trial of  Cyric the Mad\\" by troy Denning.	2000-02-24
US	51389157	R32BE22VOHN0PG	0880387300	157059446	Shadowdale (Forgotten Realms:  Avatar Trilogy, Book One)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	And then they fell.	It is the Year of Shadows, and all is about to change.  In this, the first of the core avatar series, we witness as four common souls embark upon a most life-altering journey.  Midnight, Kelemvor Lyonsbane, Cyric of Zhentil Keep, and Adon of Sune: some of the most renown figures in the Forgotten  Realms library, if you desire to see where it all began, this is the  book.<br />I have read this title twice, the first time I read the tale I  devoured it, lusting for more, and finding it in the pair of sequels.  The  second time I read through it, tempered by my recollection of the tale, and  by the reading of other novels.  I have concluded that while not ground  breaking; the book is well worth the read.  I have recommended it to three  other friends, and they all enjoyed the novel as well.  However, more  importantly it opens the door to the series.<br />Often I have heard  complaints against the series as a tactic to usher in AD&amp;D2e.  I have  also heard complaints that the writing and editing were poor.  I disagree,  while not \\"The Hobbit\\" or \\"Great Expectations\\", the writing maintained a  consistent voice, and handled the deific characters admirably.  I also  found the novel, and the trilogy as a whole, stood up better as novels than  as gaming tools.  If you do decide to take up the tale of Shadowdale, be  sure to follow it up with the rest of the Avatar series:<br />\\"Tantras\\" &amp;  \\"Waterdeep\\" by Richard Awlinson, The Shadows of the Avatar series (\\"Cloak  of Shadows\\", \\"Shadows of Doom\\", &amp; \\"All Shadows Fled\\") by Ed Greenwood,  \\"Prince of Lies\\" by James Lowder, and \\"Crucible: Trial of Cyric the Mad\\" by  Troy Denning.  I rather liked the later pair best, but the magic of the  first three allowed for that emersion.	2000-02-24
US	51389157	R22G4ZP40H5F42	0880387483	162074405	Tantras (Forgotten Realms:  Avatar Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	The fall from grace	\\"Tantras\\", second in the epic Realms shattering Avatar Trilogy, continues where \\"Shadowdale\\" left off.  We continue to follow the pawns of deific machinations toward their fated end, watching, as the entire world seems to collapse around them.  Will it, or will they succeed in their fated quest  to right what the gods themselves put wrong?  Read the book.<br />In my  estimation, as I've read the series twice, \\"Tantras\\" functions not as much  as a bridge between \\"Shadowdale\\" and \\"Waterdeep\\" but as an integral portion  of the tale as a whole.  Yes, while the distances traveled and questions  asked and answered in the previous and subsequent novels may prove larger,  and in more numbers, this title serves as the story of Cyric.  Other  reviewers, here as in other locales, have claimed the change in Cyric's  allegiance too swift and without build up.  I have to disagree, while they  may not overtly flag the signs of his inner workings, enough is put forth  in the first title, as well as throughout this title to validate any  character developments.  It has also been proposed that the characters  within these titles are flat and without development.  I again disagree; I  felt that by the end of the novels I knew the characters, especially  Kelemvor and Cyric.  I have to admit that the catatonic state in which Adon  spent most of the first book sat poorly with me the first time I read it;  however, as I grew in understanding of the mindset within the Sunite  clergy, it grew to make perfect sense.  I recommend this title, as well as  the others in the avatar series:<br />\\"Shadowdale\\" &amp; \\"Waterdeep\\" by  Richard Awlinson, The Shadows of the Avatar Series by Ed Greenwood, \\"Prince  of Lies\\" by James Lowder, and \\"Crucible: Trial of Cyric the Mad\\" by Troy  Denning.	2000-02-24
US	51389157	R2EYY9BZJD2VS0	0880389028	972065476	The Wyvern's Spur (Finder's Stone Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	If I could I'd give it six or more stars!	The Wyvern's Spur, second in the Finder's Stone trilogy, happens to be the best of the bunch.  I had trouble putting this book down, it was that good.  As my subject line says I would give this one six stars, no seven, if I  could!  Unlike the Azure Bonds, this is less an adventure and more of a  mystery.  In it, we alter focus from Alias and Dragonbait to Giogi  Wyvernspur.<br />Set in Immersea, a relatively small city deep within Cormyr,  we learn early that someone has stolen a family heirloom from the  Wyvernspur crypt.  Who has done it and why?  The answer lies buried in the  past, and in the mysterious words of the crypt guardian.  However, to make  matters a touch more colorful, Tymora blesses us with the presence of none  other than Olive Ruskettle.<br />While at first it would seem odd the shift in  characters, from Alias to Giogi, it all comes together just in time for the  third title in the series: Song of the Saurials.  This will no doubt remain  one of my favorite stories, in or outside of outside Realms fiction.  If  you can get your hands on a copy of this title do it, and do it now, you  will not regret it.	2000-02-22
US	51389157	RLODLQ4LYZ6F7	1560760605	823040245	Song of the Saurials (The Finders Stone Trilogy, Book Three)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	...and now the conclusion.	In \\"Azure Bonds\\", we met Alias the sell sword, and her \\"soul brother\\" Dragonbait.  It also introduced the Nameless Bard and the only known halfling bard, the irrepressible Olive Ruskettle.  In \\"The Wyvern's Spur\\",  Olive helps us to learn Nameless is not nameless after all.  So, what  adventures call for our intrepid heroes?  Only the return of the  Darkbringer himself: Moander.<br />Akabar bel Akesh, a mage of no small water,  returns from his Turmish homeland to aid Alias and Dragonbait.  To make  matters worse, Moander has improved his minions since last he set foot on  Faerûn.  The Mouth of Moander, and its people, enslaved by the dark deity,  once again seeks to control Alias, and bend her to its will.<br />In this, the  third and final book in the Finder's Stone trilogy, we are given a deeper  understanding of Nameless, and of those who love him, despite their better  judgment.  Will the Harpers rescind the ban on Nameless from the Realms,  will they return to him his name, and will Moander succeed in controlling  Alias?  Read the book.<br />If you decide to pick this one up, and wonder what  the future holds for Alias the sell sword, or the Nameless bard pick up the  following titles as well: \\"Masquerades\\" and \\"Finder's Bane\\" both by Kate  Novak and Jeff Grubb.	2000-02-22
US	51389157	R1XVUC257YSJAY	0786901527	120251589	Masquerades (The Harpers, Book 10)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Welcome to Westgate	Westgate, the city moved by trade, and thieves.  For fourteen years, the dreaded Night Masks have ruled the city from the shadows.  Enter Alias, a familiar hero to fans of realms fiction, she of the enchanted arm.  When  Alias and Dragonbait return to Westgate, they become embroiled in the  twisted plots of \\"the Faceless\\", the mysterious and enigmatic ruler of the  Night Masks.  With the help of the irrepressible Olive Ruskettle, as well  as several new allies they delve head first into breaking up Faceless' dark  reigns.<br />Long had the city of Westgate remained a relative mystery to the  Realms reader.  An odd fact when you see it lies just across the Lake of  Dragons from Cormyr.  I was thrilled with this look into the manipulative  and trade driven society, especially the haughty merchant nobles.  Unlike  their Cormyte counterparts, these back biting greengrocers count every  penny, and think more about the next shipment than the next ball.  I also  enjoyed the new faces, both the villains and the allies.  I have heard  people who claim this book is a failure because the story is not epic.   Well if you are sick of realms shattering, god-killing epics this title is  for you.  I thought it was refreshing to see a title in which the villains  were mere mortals capable of manipulation without a castle full of  necromancers and priests to shove their will down the peasant's throat.  A  plot where manipulation and betrayal weighed more than the gold spent to  buy a dead tarrasque.  This was a fine tale, and worth the time and money  to read.<br />However, I feel I must rate this a four star, rather than a five  for one particular reason.  As another reviewer stated, the portion of the  tale that deals with Verovan's Treasure chamber could have used a touch  more work, it felt a touch rushed, and endings are oft to feel that way,  it's always the hardest part.  As to whether it felt cliché, as that  reviewer states, I would have to agree.  Love conquers all is a relatively  common theme, but that's because it's true for the most part; and while I  felt the handling of that cliché was managed well, I would have liked to  have seen it done differently.  Nevertheless, I have to recommend this  title, and the trilogy that introduces thee of the main heroes (Alias,  Dragonbait, and Olive):  The Finder's Stone trilogy.  If you can find any  of these four titles, snap them up quick.	2000-02-21
US	51389157	R3CZKB01AK84AN	0786906588	366365800	Finder's Bane (Forgotten Realms Lost Gods)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A battle of faith	While on a pilgrimage to the Lost Vale, Finder's young priest stumbles upon a plot that could return one of the all time villains to the realms: Bane.  Ten years ago Bane battled Torm and lost his unholy life over the  city of Tantras during the godswar (see \\"Tantras\\" by Richard Awlinson), now  dark forces seek his resurrection.  Joel, a master bard who turned his back  on the establishment to take up the banner of the Nameless Bard, Finder  Wyvernspur, finds himself thrust into a great adventure that may affect all  of Toril.<br />I truly enjoyed this title; it did a marvelous job of  seamlessly tying the lands of Abeir-Toril to those of the Multiverse.   Without presumption and overly philosophical overtones, the story  introduces fans of Forgotten Realms fiction to the basis of faith and the  relationship of deity and worshipper.  I also enjoyed the reprisal of the  Banite clergy, and how the authors showed the mindset of one who would  worship such a tyrant.  Throw into the mix, a god of the old  guard-Lathander-and watch the diversity of how deities interact with their  faithful.  <br />Further, I loved seeing the tie-ins for other products  without the explicate stating of the facts:  see the Giants Craw scene, and  then look to \\"The Sword of the Dales\\" module trilogy by Jim Butler.  The  authors also managed to handle the widely varying locations very well, from  the rugged Daggerdale, the elusive Lost Vale, the ruinous desert of old  Netheril (Anauroch), to the varying degrees of the planes, including: the  astral plane, the Outlands, and the infamous city of doors, Sigil.   <br />Finally, the best part about this novel is the fact that while the  previous titles (The Finder's Stone trilogy) would help to flesh out  Finder; they are in no way necessary to read and enjoy this tale.  This  book is definitely worth the read.	2000-02-21
US	51389157	R3IWV4DARTL7JA	0880386126	265397017	Azure Bonds (Forgotten Realms)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A wonderful Mystery/Adventure	This was a very entertaining read, full of wonderful characters and great action.  The Book was a swift read, and kept my attention, I really didn't want to put it down.  The villains weren't cut-outs, they had some starch  to their caniving plots.  I especially liked the mystery, and the confusing  clues as to what is really going on.  If you can find this one, pick it up  at once.	2000-02-04
US	51389157	RTZBQB41DB7H0	0786913428	456593771	The Dream Spheres (Forgotten Realms: Songs and Swords, Book 5)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	What deadly webs we weave...	\\"The Dream Spheres\\" find us once again embroiled in the intrigues of Waterdhavian society, and who resides in the eye of this tempest?  Of course, Danilo Thann, Arilyn Moonblade, and Elaith Craulnober.  Elaine uses  this book to delve deeper into the ugly underside of the Waterdhavian  nobles, and their mercantile endeavors.  As always, Mrs. Cunningham  displays her wonderful gift for developing and \\"growing\\" characters, the  development of all three of the previously mentioned players is completely  natural-especially if you have the luxury of witnessing it over the course  of her other titles (Elfshadow, Elfsong, Silver Shadows, &amp; Thornhold).   As a previous reviewer stated, they felt too many \\"side characters\\" graced  the tale; I disagree completely.  These characters were important to the  overall intrigue of the tale, additionally, several of the roles would then  have to be filled by miscellaneous new and unknown characters; is it not  better to have an emotional investment in those characters that appear, and  to know what they entail?  I would, however, be lacking if I failed to lend  criticism on the following point, I must say the final encounter with the  master behind all the ugliness was less than I'd hoped for.  I would have  liked to see a grander, less swift wrapping-up of things.  But again, she  leaves us in the prime location for another riveting tale...On to Tethyr!	2000-01-31
US	51389157	R1UZH1W1K42JGD	0786911778	456547956	THORNHOLD (Forgotten Realms: The Harpers, #16)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Cunningham is Cream	Returning to Waterdeep, the City of Splendors, in this the final Harper Novel (sixteenth in the series), Elaine Cunningham shows us the fine line between truly being good, and merely having good intentions.  In this tale  of half-truths and deceivers, we follow Bronwyn, a professional finder of  lost treasures, and Dag Zoreth a fanatically zealous Strifeleader (priest  of Cyric) in their search for their family, and for their birthright.  Mrs.  Cunningham has a wonderful gift for creating and developing characters;  over the course of the novels, she has continually developed Danilo, and  Khelban (they being the primary returning faces).  The direction in which  she has taken the character of Danilo is both logical and appealing.  Some  claim he lacks the wit inherent in his person in Elfshadow and lessened in  Elfsong; but I bid them look deeper.  Danilo has grown over seven years of  trial and tribulation, both his own and that of his love-Arilyn-it is also  important to note his responsibilities, not only to the Harpers but also to  his Bardic College, such weight naturally ages any man.  Equally so, I  truly loved the character Cara, she added the presence of a warm, and  innocent figure, a perfect balancing factor for all the jaded and cynical  players already on the field.  I have to disagree with a previous reviewer,  Bronwyn is not grating, she is merely a woman tired of being pushed, and  pulled through life, and tired of being fed half-truths and lies.  I found  her character refreshing, and I completely sympathized for her. Within the  tale, I followed several themes, the first of which was \\"Family.\\"   Following the Dwarven clan arc (I loved Ebenezer and his sister, Elaine  does well with her handling of the earthy folk), and further into the Elven  and Orcish villages, she presses the importance of family home to Bronwyn,  a thing she so desperately seeks throughout the novel, despite the fact she  seems to try to tell herself otherwise. The second theme, was \\"good is not  always good,\\" I may not be expressing that right; I will try to explain.   As I read this tale, I found myself gaining more and more respect for the  burdens of Khelban Arunsun, the Arch-mage of Waterdeep.  The balance he has  to maintain, not only for the world around him, but really for his own  sanity.  I also loved the way Mrs. Cunningham handles the Paladins, often  we as gamers, look to the Paladin as the ultimate force of good,  overlooking the fact that they are oft-times blinded by their convictions.   We see Algorind, a young and righteous man, he desires nothing more than to  do what is right and honorable; yet, he is ill prepared to make decisions  based in a world where all is not as it appears (you'll see when you find  the truth behind Sir Gareth).  By juxtaposing the Paladins (including Sir  Gareth, Algorind, and Lord Piergeiron), against the evils of the Zhentarim  (Ashemi, Semmamon, &amp; Dag Zoreth), but at the same time against the Orc  Village, and against the Harpers (in particular Danilo, Khelban, &amp;  Alice), we as readers are allowed to weigh the positives and negatives of  each organization; and to see how each looks through differing filters, and  how none of them are perfect, but all of them human. Finally, I have to  agree and disagree with a previous reviewer.  On one hand, it is true that  we do not expressly see the powers inherent in the rings of Samular, but  she alludes enough in the Prologue (where we witness the destruction of  Hellgate Keep), that one can imagine future tales involving them, and  Khelban's apparently regretted past.  However, the story is not about the  rings, it is not about the magic, the story is about the people involved.   I too long to see what becomes of Algorind, I hope he is tempered by this  trial, gaining true wisdom and insight.  I fear for Cara's future, for what  may befall Dag Zoreth when he returns to Darkhold.  Nevertheless, I do not  find this book a bad ending to the Harper series.  While it may be the end  of the \\"series\\", it is by no means an end to the Harpers, and I do not see  it being sold as such.  It is, though, a turning point, this is very  apparent as you watch Khelban and Danilo. I really enjoyed this title, more  on a thinking level than her previous Harper novels.  Do not be scared  though, it has plenty of action, and a good smattering of humor to lighten  the atmosphere.  However, to further enhance the experience and several of  the characters read both Elfshadow &amp; Elfsong first.	2000-01-25
US	51389157	R12BLK148E24W0	0786904984	768237914	Silver Shadows (Forgotten Realms: Songs and Swords, Book 13)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Silver Shadows is Supurb!	With &quot;Silver Shadows&quot;, Elaine Cunningham once again returns to the forested lands of Faern.  In her forth tale set within the Forgotten Realms, she reprises the character Arilyn Moonblade taking her far from the  familiar territory of Waterdeep.  In this tale, we follow Arilyn's journey  through Zezasspur, capital city of the tumultuous nation of Tethyr, and  into the distinctly fey realms of the sylvan elves of the Tethir forest.   Somehow, the Harper must straddle the line between these two starkly  conflicting cultures, and find the means to save the elven people of  Tethir; all the while struggling to find her own place in both worlds, to  neither of which she fully belongs.  Mrs. Cunningham is a master of her  craft; in my opinion, none among her Faernian peers can match her  compassion, and objectivity to the elven plight.  She also has a talent for  developing characters; all too often, the characters within a fantasy novel  are merely passengers for the plot, not so for this author.  She remarkably  balances the expected, with the unexpected, all the while maintaining a  compelling story ripe with action, humor and emotion.  This was a marvelous  book, whether or not you faithfully follow the tales of the Forgotten  Realms, this is a must read.  However, I suggest you first read \\"Elfshadow\\"  and then \\"Elfsong\\" before you pick this one up; while not necessary, it  will only serve to enhance the undercurrents within the story.	2000-01-17
US	51389157	R3B0COHIPGNRKW	078691405X	407294654	WYRMSKULL THRONE, THE (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons : Forgotten Realms Adventure)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A Must Buy!	Steven &amp; Dale have done it again.  This wonderful adventure spans new ground for a Forgotten Realms, correction, any TSR adventure!  Your players will become embroilled in a quest for all Dwarvenkind.  The Lore held  within these pages about not only the undersea peoples and locales, but  about the long forgotten (to the humans at least) Dwarven realm of Shanatar  is amazing.  And best of all the adventure is very intuitively written.   They spared no word unturned, they bless the DM with anything they need,  hooks and reason to begin the adventure, full descriptions including the  motivations of all the players, what if's for the outcomes, and even the  other tavern dwellers!  It was without a doubt the best module I've ever  read, I am even now plotting the course of my own players so they will  &quot;fall into it&quot;.  If you bought Sea of Fallen Stars, this is a  must have!  If you didn't, you can get along just fine without it, but  it'll draw you into the wonderous world beneath the Inner Sea, known as  Seros.  Have fun, and good gaming!	2000-01-13
US	51389157	R3TNQMHIHENQ40	0786907541	594148789	I, Strahd: The War Against Azalin	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Lesser of two evils?	P.N.Elrod returns with &quot;I, Strahd: The War Against Azalin.&quot;  To begin, the book is supurbly written.  Ms. Elrod has a wonderful grasp of language, and a great sence to her craft as a writer.  She also has a  wonderful grasp of the characters, both Strahd, and Azalin.  Despite being  undead, she fills them with the tribulations of the living, only she  marvelously stretches them over the course of years, even decades!  The  manipulations, and the power games which ultimately escalate into a war are  wonderfully developed.  The entire arrival of Azalin, the powerful, and  evil lich; and further, his struggle with his sudden prison and the yoke he  finds himself bound under are grand.  The continuing struggle for Strahd,  to search out Tatyana only to lose her time and time again is heart  wrenching (allowing for a macabre irony of course).  Despite the fact you  have to loath both of the main characters--let's face it, they're  abominations!--the author does a wonderful job of pulling you into a  position of picking a &quot;worse of two evils.&quot;  Of course, the novel  is written as the journal of Strahd Von Zarovich; so like Dr. Rudolf  vanRichten, whether you take it at face value, or ponder whether it's  merely Propoganda by the briliant Vampire lord, you have to admit, it's a  great read.  I recommend this novel to all, especially those who love  gothic fantasy/&quot;horror&quot; novels, and more so if you've read  either: &quot;I, Strahd: Memoirs of a Vampire&quot;(also by P.N.Elrod) or  &quot;Vampire of the Mist&quot;(by Christie Golden).	2000-01-12
US	51389157	RKSW20TWZCZXQ	1560769114	89402150	REALMS OF INFAMY (Forgotten Realms Anthology)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Many Faces of Evil	&quot;Infamous...that means 'more than famous',&quot; or so thought Dusty Bottoms.  Infamy, the seedier, more sinister side of the Realms.  This collection of short stories (delivering tales about Artemis, Manshoon and  others), is a fabulous read, and a great beacon to continue the  &quot;Realms of...&quot; series.  Whole heartedly I recommend this title.   Each story is self contained, and each is well written.  It includes tales  by: Greenwood, Cunningham, Salvatore, Lowder &amp; more!  You won't regret  it (in particular I note: &quot;Laughter in the Flames&quot;(Lowder) and  &quot;The Meaning of Lore&quot;(Handee) are among the better pieces I've  read when concerned with the character of a character).	2000-01-12
US	51389157	R3CTO4EZZPQAV4	1560766794	639227592	Elfsong (Harpers)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Cunningham doesn't disappoint	The Blackstaff, the name resounds with might and just a healthy dose of fear in all those who've lived in Waterdeep, or faced his anger.  When a shadow from Khelban's past threatens to dethrone the lords of Waterdeep,  and blemish the Midsummer season, only Danillo Thann and a surprise ally  can save the city.  In her second Realms novel (eighth in the Harpers  series), Mrs. Elaine Cunningham delivers a supurb sophmore effort.  Once  again she delivers the sarcastic wit of Elaith Craulnobur, the elven rogue;  and wonderfully plays him off Danillo Thann Waterdeep's beloved fop.  This  was a great read, the characters were round, they had meat on their bones  so to say; and for all of you who read Elfshadow and loved the infamous  rogue Elaith, this one's a MUST read, you'll be glad you did!	2000-01-08
US	51389157	R2WAH0LEFQPB6S	0786906464	256649481	Four from Cormyr (Forgotten Realms: Adventure)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Grand adventures!	Mid-level adventures abound in the forest kingdom.  This compilation of modules set in the kingdom of Cormyr are wonderfully layed out.  They have been so put together that one could play them in any orde, or leave out any  one of their choosing and still feel as though everything was accomplished.   They draw on all the skills needed to survive, deductive, martial and  diplomatic.  A wonderful product, I hope to see more of this quality.	1999-12-31
US	51389157	R3VAYTQSU6UFYT	0786907096	735052844	Cult of the Dragon (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons/Forgotten Realms)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	...and the dead dragons shall rule...	The Dracolich, a creature shrouded in fear and dark sorceries.  So too has the mysterious cult which worships them been shrouded, but no more the shroud has been lifted!  Long the odd man out of all the mad power groups  of the Realms, this wonderful game supplement by Dale Donovan lays bare the  lore surrounding not only the Cult of the Dragon as it is today, but as it  was.  This supplement chronicles it's evolution from a mistranslated line  in an ancient text, to the power hungry cell structure that threatens the  realms today.  Provided within are several Creatures, including the mighty  Dracolich, used by the Cult.  The text also provides numerous spells and  magic items, most of which are unique to the Cult and it's followers.   The  presentation, and quantity of information and realms lore are a wonderful  addition to any Realms DM's library, but don't let that scare you, this  supplement could fit in any campaign world.  It's a keeper!	1999-12-31
US	51389157	RSQZ5PYSWP554	0786903848	310720615	Faiths & Avatars (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons: Forgotten Realms, Campaign Expansion/9516)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Consider it a Core product!	Julia Martin and Eric Boyd team up to provide one of the most important titles in a Forgotten Realms library.  An exhaustive list of all the Lesser through Greater human gods and their churches.  This supplement provides  numerous spells, and special powers with which to make each different faith  pop out from the rest.  It details the clergy, the ethos, and all important  information needed to properly bring the Fearunian pantheon to life  (figuratively of course) in your campaing, a must have! (*Note* the  demi-gods and demi-human pantheons are detailed in two subsequent texts of  equal quality, &quot;Powers &amp; Pantheons&quot;, and &quot;Demi-Human  Deities&quot;)	1999-12-31
US	51389157	R33R7L68TXN9YX	0786906979	680760064	LANDS OF INTRIGUE (Campaign Expansion: Advanced Dungeons & Dragons Forgotten Realms)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great expansion	Lands of Intrigue is packed with info, and lore.  The source on Amn and the struggles therein was wonderful, as was the whole country left for DM development (Erlkazar).  Tethyr, a land which was (up until this product I  believe)at civil war has recovered and now tries to rebuild.  It would seem  this limits it to another Cormyr, but the people are of a different  mindset, and the lands are ripe for raids by other nations and powergroups  trying to stiffle the fledgling government.  Well done, and worth every  penny.	1999-12-31
US	51389157	R1OZ5M86XYVT64	1560761172	417035441	Elfshadow (Forgotten Realms)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The love affair begins...	Arilyn &amp; Danillo, to realms fans they bring to mind a vivid image of Waterdeep, of the Harpers, and a tie to all things Elven.  Elfshadow, Elaine Cunninghams first venture into the lands of Faerun, and the second  in the sixteen novel series dealing with the mysterious Harpers, provides  us the introduction to these beloved rogues.  When a mysterious Assassin  begins killing Harpers, the secret orginanization begins seeking the  murderer.  Could it be Arilyn, the half-elven rogue born of a shadowy past,  and wielder of the Moonblade?  Khelban Arunsun, Arch-Mage of Waterdeep  wonders, and so enters his foppish nephew, Danillo Thann.  Mrs. Cunningham  displays a keen insight into the minds of Fearuns elves--I dare say she is  the master of Faerunian elves--and into the Harpers themselves.  She  displays a gift at providing well rounded characters, with a depth to them  and to their motivations (Keep your eye on Elaith, he's a top notch  character!).  The story in which we find them thrust is a wonderful  mystery, filled with age old lore, and long held grudges.  Elaine does a  wonderful job of giving the reader several choices in their quest for the  true villain(s), and maintains the intensity even after you feel you know  who's to blame.  I would recommend this book to any who ask.	1999-12-30
US	51389157	RUNBRL46O7POQ	1560761180	617290759	Red Magic (Forgotten Realms: The Harpers, Book 3)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	The not so fearsome Thayvians	If you know anything about the Forgotten Realms you likely have an itching fear when anyone mentions Thayvians.  I know I do, but it's not because of this novel (Sorry Ms. Rabe).  I'm sorry to say, but it was a very dry read  and...flat, for lack of a better word.  To bring this novel up from a 3  star rating it needed 1.) Less &quot;down time&quot;-the travel time seemed  wanting for action, or a deepening and rounding of the characters. 2.)  Passion!  We see these two characters fall in love, but there's no passion,  this isn't Junior High boyfriends and girlfriends, these were grown adults  brought together under the impending wrath of the Thayvian Zulkirs!  The  passion also was severly lacking in the villains I thought.  Both Maligor  and Sazz Tam were hollow, and flat.  Sazz Tam, arguably one of the most  powerful sorcerers on all Toril was a bore!  Even stuffy old  Alophondar-Sage Most Learned of Cormyr has more spunk!  The ending also  left me blah, it felt rushed.  If you love the realms and have the coin to  spare, read it, it's a neat look at Thay, a look we haven't since been  given (outside game material).  But in all honesty, I'd pass.  Hopefully  the powers that be will assign someone like Greenwood, Cunningham or  Denning (oh here comes the heat!) to bring us back to the feared lands of  the Red Wizards, as soon as they're finished in Halruaa of course (crossing  fingers over &quot;The Mage Hound&quot;).	1999-12-21
US	51389157	R3TC1M75JJD8RT	1560766263	601899541	PRINCE OF LIES (Forgotten Realms: The Avatar)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Such a twisted tale	James Lowder, the editor for Richard Awlinsons &quot;The Avatar Trilogy&quot;, returns to the realms with his best outing (or so I think).  The twisted story of Cyric, the man who would be a god continues.  The  Sewer rat made bad, continues to vie for power amidst the Fearunian  Pantheon;  but his schemes don't go unchecked.  Mystra, Lady of Magic, and  his old mortal friend fights him at every turn.  Mr. Lowder does a  marvelous job with the characters, especially Rhinda, the lowly scribe, and  both of the major deities (Cyric and Mystra).  I recommend this book whole  heartedly.  However, the characters in this book are dependant, to a degree  I fear, on the foreknowledge gained in reading the Avater Series.  I  recommend you start there.  But get them done so you can read this one!	1999-12-21
US	51389157	R588SKXDLXD4J	078691436X	236158018	Beyond the High Road (Forgotten Realms: The Cormyr Saga, Book 2)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A supurb piece of fiction!	Troy Denning's &quot;Beyond the High Road&quot; is set in the Forest Kingdom of Cormyr, in the wildly popular Forgotten Realms.  This novel continues the saga of Cormyr, and in particular Vangerdahast, Azoun, and  the two crown Princess'.  Denning shows us his best face in this book.  He  has obviously done his research into Realms Lore; and his depiction of the  characters, following so closely on the heels of &quot;Cormyr: A  Novel&quot;, both in Realms time and our own is seemless!  The story is  full of the classic elements, character growth, flawed heroes, the whole  showboat.  A top notch book, and a must have for any fan of the Realms.   The end will leave you thirsting for more (Which you'll get next August in  &quot;Death of the Dragon&quot;).	1999-12-21
US	51389157	R2AS8U3UH49NUP	078690710X	419760165	Cormyr (Forgotten Realms:  The Cormyr Saga, Book 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A fantastic ride through the Forest Kingdom!	&quot;Cormyr: a Novel&quot; by Grubb &amp; Greenwood was an excellant read.  A wonderful addition to the Realms catalogue.  Tackling both the history of Cormyr and a terrible event surrounding the King himself.  This  novel held my interest the whole way through, I couldn't put it down.  I  loved both of the stories, especially as they began to spiral in on  themselves!  I recomend this series (the next one, &quot;Beyond the High  Road&quot;) The Cormyr Saga, to any fan of the Realms.  And hey, if you  aren't a fan, this should make you one!	1999-12-21
US	51389157	R31FQICDSD2A1Q	0786902035	111528275	Elminster: The Making of a Mage (Forgotten Realms)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Elminster star of a franchise	Elminster, the name resounds with familiarity to millions.  He is all but synonymous with the Forgotten Realms.  Ed Greenwood, likewise, the grandfather of all things Fearunian brings to life the lands of old, and  while he's at it he tells the tale of a young sheppard boy, who would  someday be both beloved and despised by millions of people, both real, and  imaginary.  Greenwood, who has a tendency to through in nudity for no other  sake than its own, strikes gold with El:MotM.  Recounting his tale from his  humble youth through the culmination of years of vengeful longing.  We  witness as Elminster Aumar tackles the arts of combat, thievery, and  priestcraft.  We see the elves of Toril, and get introduced to the  Maulagrym, a fearsome foe detailed in &quot;The Shadows of the Avatar  trilogy&quot;. We meet a living Shoon, the mighty Mystra, Lady of Magic,  and several small time thieves who add a touch of comic relief with that  trademark Greenwood wit.  This first of three books detailing the life of a  young Elminster, is a true winner.  For any realms fan it's a must, for  anyone who wants to love El, or wants to Hate him, this is a must.  Read  this book.	1999-12-21
US	51389157	R22YE39SE6RX8E	0786903007	774536022	Shadows of Doom (Forgotten Realms:  The Shadow of the Avatar, Book 1)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Swashbuckler Three	I really enjoyed this book, the characters were engaging, the story was good, and the descriptions were wonderful.  Action and humor were the two words I'd most likely assign to this book, and in reality the whole series.   The Two Harper Lads that travel with Sharantyr, youngest of the Knights of  Myth Drannor, are just hilarious.  I spent most of my time laughing, I  think that's why it took me so long to finish.  I recommend this series,  especially if you're a fan of the realms.  The only thing I found lacking,  really, was the odds.  Three rangers and Elminster versus that many  Zhentilar?  And El hardly casts because Magic is unstable?  That's my only  complaint.	1999-12-21
US	51389157	ROUA4XZYTL1TU	0786903023	408452515	All Shadows Fled (Forgotten Realms:  The Shadow of the Avatar, Book 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Magical Thrill ride	While the series isn't a literary smash, it is solid fun reading.  The battles are well choreographed, despite the fact the good guys don't really look like they'll lose.  This leads a lot of fans to despise the Zhentilar  as push over baddies.  However, Ed does return with his tongue in cheek  humor, and the wonderful descriptive voice he uses.  While not nearly a  pulitzer quality book, it does a good job at being what it is...a fun  adventure.  I would like to note, that the book Elminster: Making of a Mage  is a super jump after this one, as would be the Avater series.  And lastly,  when Mystra says &quot;Elminster cannot last forever&quot; at the end, Ed  leaves you wide eyed at the possibility for &quot;Elminster:The Death of a  Mage&quot;, will it ever happen?  Wait and see.	1999-12-21
US	51389157	R16L6ZR8NNNZNB	0786903015	398800599	Cloak of Shadows (Forgotten Realms:  The Shadow of the Avatar, Book 2)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Enter the Maulagrym	&quot;The Great Foe&quot;, a name that sent shudders down the amorphous spines of the shadowmasters, an odd clan of shapeshifting sorcerers living in the demi-plane of Shadows.  Such was the name given to Elminster of  Shadowdale.  Greenwood returns in the sequel to &quot;Shadows of  Doom&quot;, and the fifth in the line of novels dealing with the Godswar,  also called the Avatar Crisis.  Ed's humor is once again a huge part in  this novel, as is the setting of the stage for the Maulagrym to steal into  the magic depleated realms and wreak havok en route to total domination.   Ithar, Belkram Sharantyr, along with the ghost of Sylune must battle the  horrid creatures, or all Fearun will be lost.  Over all a solid book, the  best way I can place it is, Entertaining.	1999-12-21
US	51389157	R1GCFL4OU2KZ44	1560761555	411082127	Vampire of the Mists (Ravenloft, Book 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	What a rookie effort	As she herself states, this was her first Novel.  While at time it may hint at that fact, the overall piece seems veteran.  This, the first novel in the Ravenloft franchise, needs a tad of slack, the rest had a myriad of  atmosphere and feel to go on.  Soth came from Dragonlance, he had history,  he had the attention of so many already.  These guys, Strahd, Petya &amp;  Jander needed to start from scratch.  Enough said on that issue.    This  novel is a great read, filled with dark emotions, and battles of will.  The  action that happens within the pages is well planned, and well described,  despite the grislieness of what the characters do.  The plot arc dealing  with Jander transplanting the Lathanderan faith by merely looking like him  was a hoot, and Ms. Golden did a wonderful job of making it matter to the  story as a whole.  Most people focus on the dueling Vampires, but I think  the great job she did on the other principles, like Brother Martin &amp;  Petya was just as wonderful.    I loved it, and it served as a wonderful  tie in for Realms fans to the Ravenloft line.  This isn't one to miss.	1999-12-21
