US	51386781	R16DYK427H0TI	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	4	24	27	N	N	Spoilers!! Now gimmee book 7!!!	I noticed that many of the low ratings in early reviews came from disappointed readers who felt the 6th book, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, either just did not live up to their expectations, or else did not present a natural evolution of the familiar characters. I easily disagree, coming off a very enjoyable trip through the wizarding world with this installment. <br /> <br />This latest entry was very entertaining, but in hindsight seems to be clearly a transition between Book 5, The Order of the Phoenix, and the final book due in a year or two where everything will come together, get resolved and tie up neatly, rather than a purely stand-alone story. It is a very worthwhile read but I think a lot was intended to set us up and put everything in place for the last book. Was it too long and did it contain unnecessary entire chapters? No way! If you enjoy Harry Potter, you'll love jumping back into this familiar world with characters you've come to care about or hate, moving through places we have been now six times.  <br /> <br />Spoilers:  <br />Yeah, the revealed half-blood prince wasn't what everyone had been expecting. More of a ummm than a whoa! Many people guessed it'd be Dudley Dursley or Neville, not who it turned out to be. What is the significance of this person to the overall story? It looks like we have to wait until the next book to have that piece of the puzzle fall into place. <br /> <br />Here are some thoughts about what will happen in that last book: Obviously, we'll get the inevitable battle to the finish between good and evil, between Harry and Voldemort. We've been expecting this since the first book, of course, but we learned that there are 4 pieces of Voldie's soul out three that need to be tracked down and killed before the two adversaries can get down to final business. Hermione and Ron will be with him, even though the setting will not be at Hogwarts.  <br /> <br />Dumbledore can't be dead for good, or at the very least, gone for good. That is  pretty clearly foreshadowed. I can't guess if he will be literally brought back to life or reappear through some nifty magic, but there is no doubt that what happened to him was planned. Perhaps if everyone thinks he is gone and out of the way he can make more progress in the search for the key to killing Lord V.  <br /> <br />Snape, too, was clearly acting on Dumbledore's orders including the death-delivering curse that flung the Headmaster off the tower, spiriting Draco Malfoy away and avoiding hurting of killing some of the students and Professors fighting Death Eaters at the bottem of the tower stairs. That seems obvious. There were also clear clues that he was trying to not inflict damage on Harry when he could have.  <br /> <br />I also bet that Percy Weasley will turn out NOT to be the major prat that he has seemed for the last two books, but will turn out to be secretly working undercover for the Order of the Phoenix, keeping an eye on the inside of the Ministry of Magic. It must be deep cover because his Mother and brothers and sister don't know, but I think he will turn out to be a good guy, and get welcomed back to the family.  <br /> <br />The DA (Dumbledore's Army), or at least some of the regulars, will join in the hunt and battle with Voldemort and the Death Eaters, especially Neville and Ginny. I also expect to see Grawp play a bigger (no pun) role in the final book. J K Rowling has been a master at weaving items, spells, locations and characters in earlier books that come into play again in later books. Look for bigger roles also for Bill and Charlie, Norbert the Dragon, and even Sirius Black to possibly play a role -we still don't know where exactly he went when he fell into the covered arch in the Department of Mysteries. Dead, remember, is not always final in these books.  <br /> <br />And what is the real story about Petunia Dursley, Lilly's sister? She knows more than she has let on, knowing about Dementors and Azkaban, as we readin book 5. Finally, Draco Malfoy who evolved from a stuck up spoiled jerk on the wrong side in books 1 - 5 into Varsity on the bad guy's side in book 6, showed true regret and repentance when push came to shove, (or wand came to spell, if you like).  <br /> <br />So, to sum up, this was a fine and worthy addition to the Potter series; it moved the story along, added information and explanations that filled in gaps from the past, and set us all up for the grand finale. Now, who can wait two years for the final book??	2005-07-21
US	51386781	R6YQZO0T9MAU5	0974943827	512939698	Pure Sweet Hell / Catch a Fallen Starlet (Stark House Mystery Classics)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Pure sweet entertainment	An ok, at times somewhat hard to follow crime thriller. The story takes place over one long night in a Spanish port town as an undercover FBI agent attempts to crack a cocaine network and get a lead to the head man. An exaggeratedly long night ensues with more beatings, stabbings, shootings and chases than seem possible. I lost count of how many times the main character was knocked unconsciousness in the same night, only to find the stamina to later outrun persistent bad guys in spite of the scorching Iberian heat.  He ends up dripping in sweat every 20 pages but never takes time out for a drink, unless it is alcohol-based. <br />Not completely satisfying but at the end I did not feel it was time wasted The story contains plenty of pseudo-twists and double-crosses, vivid characters and a terse writing style. This is an old fashioned (literally, it was written in the 50's) crime noir style story where bad guys are big and lumbering, the good guys are always ready with a quip and a roundhouse, and the women are whores, but good hearted down deep. <br />Not a bad read, but nothing urgent.	2005-06-08
US	51386781	RZOSN864I5IDR	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	4	2	8	N	N	Book #16 in the development of a cynic	This is an entertaining and very readable partisan rip against the usual suspects on the Right side of what passes for political discourse today in America. Franken is annoyed at the unanswered attacks by the talking heads on the conservative talk show circuit and blasts back with both barrels, citing tons of statistics, facts and stories to counter their arguments and support his own. I enjoyed reading it, agreed with some of it, and learned some new information. BUT.......<br />Here is my problem: I have recently been reading a number of these popular one-sided \\"fact-telling\\" books such as Sean Hannitys' \\"Let Freedom Ring\\", Dick Morris' \\"Off with their Heads\\", John Stossel' \\"Give me a Break\\", Bill O'Reilly's \\"No-Spin Zone\\", and a few others. If you read any of these one-note books (Liberal is always right!, or Conservative all the way!!) you will not be reading anything that is even slightly objective yet they all try to take that tone. They all sound reasonable, at least in spots, with plenty of polls and statistics and stories to support their points. But they can't all be correct. <br />When you read several of them at the same time it starts to be overwhelmingly obnoxious. Well, quit shouting at me! If you have a point, lay it out there, but no single perspective is always correct with the other side always wrong. It just doesn't work that way in the real world. So why do they do it? To sell books, or on the TV shows and talk shows, to sell soap or whatever products the ads are promoting. Just remember that and don't allow yourself to get swept up in the muckraking.<br />One funny side effect that happened as I developed a huge skeptical chip on my shoulder toward these self-appointed partisan pundit books from both destructive sides of the political spectrum; I was reading a cookbook (from Cooks Illustrated, a great series) where they were talking about the process they went through to arrive at the best way to cook chicken breasts. I read it, and thought, \\"Yeah, right, that's just a one-sided explanation to prove your point\\". <br />Bottom-line, read Franken or any of these guys purely as entertainment and don't get your decision-making information from them.	2004-05-27
US	51386781	R33OYY4NZ5N5CY	0743204735	660154931	Bush at War	Books	4	36	37	N	N	Bush at War in Afghanistan	I picked up Bob Woodward's \\"Bush at War\\" when I was looking for an objective telling of how Bush got into and approached the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. There are too many partisan accounts that say Bush is all right or all wrong and I was looking for less politics and more information. This book provides that in great and sometimes tedious detail.<br />This book is focused on the period from just before 9-11-01 to prior to the Bush administration's going to war in Iraq, but after the Congress gave the Bush administration the authority to unilaterally do what it felt was required there. The book ends with Bush awaiting UN enforcement of the many Iraq-related resolutions. This is 90% focused on Afghanistan, NOT IRAQ.<br />Richard Clarke's highly critical book on Bush and his alleged lack of attention to terrorism prior to 9/11 came out while I was reading this book Surprisingly enough, Clarke is not mentioned at all in the Bush at War book in spite of his being the head of the Counter-Terrorism office in the White House.<br />The first quarter of \\"Bush at War\\" did a nice job of taking me back to the emotional shock of the Trade Tower attacks and the virtually universal feeling in America of patriotism and joining together. The remainder of the story describes in repetitive detail the frequent meetings among the White House principals, (with and without Bush) regarding what kind of response was appropriate, what was achievable and when could it be done. Logistically they found it difficult to reopen old intelligence contacts in Afghanistan and get men and material over there. I was surprised out how difficult the logistics are in fighting a war all the way around the world. Woodward does not clear up the question of whether Bush was on point regarding terrorism prior to 9/11 but makes it clear that it was taken very seriously after, to the point where the subject honed Bush's vision of what he wants to accomplish with his Presidency. <br />Some key points from the book. <br />*Iraq is discussed in the White House early on after 9/11 but is not the main topic, Al-Quada is and the Taliban's support of them. The Taliban is not even the prime initial target for retaliation; in fact they are offered an out by turning over Bin Laden and the rest of the leadership. <br />*This book does not make it clear that an Iraq invasion was on the Bush agenda upon inauguration. However, Rumsfeld suggests possibly attacking Iraq or somewhere in the Far East to demonstrate the far reach of the US military and to scare the terrorists, especially when it becomes clear that the military had no initial plan or assets to exploit in Afghanistan. No one else went for that idea.<br />*Bush comes off as decisive, inclusive and even open-minded during the discussion phases. He is heavily involved in the \\"you are for us, or you are against us\\" position on terrorism that came out early after 9/11. He is involved in tactical discussions and keeps the team focused and confident. <br />*Cheney and Rumsfeld are the uber-hawks, pushing the ultimately prevailing position that the possibility of a devastating second terrorist attack against the US, either domestically or internationally, required the adoption of the declared preemption policy. They are the prime proponents behind the decision to eventually invade Iraq. <br />* Powell was not as much a part of the real inner circle as Cheney and Rumsfeld were (and are still). Powell is more independent and less trusted.<br />This is more similar to an in-depth newspaper piece than a novel in terms of readability. Woodward could have described the discussions leading to policy formulation and then used hindsight to report where they were right or wrong. I would have liked more conclusions rather than just fact reporting. Another difficulty was keeping track of the passage of time. A timeline running along the top of the pages would have been helpful in this type of account. As it was I frequently had to flip around to reconfirm where I was in the calendar of events. <br />Bottom line, \\"Bush at War\\" is a well researched book with good sources clearly evident, that is not pushing a political agenda. He needs to do another one focused on Bush in Iraq.	2004-04-01
US	51386781	R66D3J2CYB2CV	0767908481	223666842	The No Spin Zone: Confrontations with the Powerful and Famous in America	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Work harder on the next book, Bill!	I enjoy watching Bill O'Reilly's TV show on Fox now and then, as well as a number of other political shows across the political spectrum. They careen from one extreme to the other but I generally find them interesting and entertaining. You expect that when you watch; they need to be provocative enough to attract an audience so they can sell commercials. Fine. However, some of them, O'Reilly included, push their news journalism backgrounds as well as their opinions. The implication is he is a more informed commentator than the typical pretty talking head, and I find that makes his TV show pretty watchable. The nature of the format of his TV show always leaves something to be desired however; with tight time segments there is frequently not enough opportunity to get deeper than simply interesting sound bites. I had read Bill's earlier book, the O'Reilly Factor, or rather, listened to it as a Book on Tape. It was good entertainment and had some provocative elements and as a result I looked forward to reading The No Spin Zone. <br />It was just ok and therefore disappointing. The No-Spin Zone is lightweight and does not accomplish what O'Reilly intends it to; convincing the reader that his position makes more sense than his opponents'. If you already hate O'Reilly, this book won't convert you, and if you consider him infallible, well, you'd wholeheartedly agree with his grocery list. I consider myself in neither camp. I'm just looking for an interesting read and to learn something new to help shape my opinion. I hoped to find a deeper discussion of his viewpoints or nuances to his arguments that just aren't possible in the time-limited TV format. You won't find it here. <br />The book is presented in 15 chapters, each on a specific topic or newsmaker (Al Sharpton, drugs, government oversight, etc), with an introduction by O'Reilly and an excerpt of an interview transcript from his TV show. We are supposed to read and make our own evaluation of which perspective (his orhis guests') is most convincing. To his credit, he says that this format may be unfair, but heck, he is the guy writing it. He is more persuasive on TV than he is in print due to his aggressive personal style. <BR>I agree with many of his positions (Jesses Jackson used to be an honorable soldier for civil rights and now is a racist corporate extortionist, we need budget accountability in Federal government spending, Bill Clinton lied and it matters even if it was only about sex, and so on.).  However, in spite of the potentially lopsided format he rarely slam dunks his point home. In print you don't hear the volume of his voice or the scorn in his tone, just the words in his arguments, and they are frequently thin and incomplete. Maybe he would have been more convincing in the Audio book. <br />The anecdotes about why he wanted someone on his show or his days as a reporter in South America were exciting and the most engaging parts of the book. <br />The ironic thing about the book O'Reilly choose to put out is how light on opinion and argument it ultimately is. We're supposed buy his arguments because we were believers BEFORE we read the book. Well, that is the kind of spin that O'Reilly himself counsels us all against. In the No-Spin Zone on his TV show we listen to O'Reilly spinning his perspective every night; and why not? It's his show. But I wish he had taken the time to show up when he put this book out. This is a weak effort.	2004-03-16
US	51386781	RL8JOMT933RI5	0553583468	899919699	Whisper of Evil (Evil Trilogy) (Bishop/Special Crimes Unit)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Whisper of Mediocrity	This is a fairly ordinary police procedural novel with a paranormal twist. I liked the concept of a special FBI unit that uses agents with physic powers to solve the tough and ugly crimes. The small town setting and the mysterious past relationship between the main characters were interesting for a while. However, the execution in Whisper of Evil was long, sloppy and confusing. <br />I'm not looking for high-quality, classic writing in a casual summer read like this but I found it hard to maintain enough focus to keep reading through to the end (I did finish it!). Characters appear briefly and then disappear for 100 pages, forcing you to flip back in the book to remember whom we're talking about. <br />I gave it 2 stars because there is some entertainment value to be had here - some reasonably well drawn characters, some exciting plot twists - but I felt always felt  little lost trying to follow the plot, and too much had to fall into place in the last few pages or so. <br />I would not recommend this, even as lightweight reading. There are just too many other offerings out there that are flat out better. Move on.	2003-09-24
US	51386781	R3J7FJJXZPCAB	0061031542	471094057	Orange Crush (Serge Storms)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Dave Barry meets Quentin Tarantino  meets hyper-activity	Dorsey writes the literary equivalent of a summer blockbuster, a writers version of those new gravity and physics defying roller coasters where you strap yourself in, hang on tight and wonder \\"what the heck did I do this for??!?!\\" as you spin your lunch back out at 4 gees, and then you run right back to line up for more. <br />This is fun, pure and simple and nothing else. Very little redeeming social value, it won't teach you anything you can use in life or business or camping. It will entertain you almost to stroke levels. Hugely. His books have the manic, non-stop pace of Nascar, the local Florida color of Carl Hiasson, and the kind of laughs that Jerry Lewis inexplicably gives the French. <br />This is the 3rd or 4th Dorsey book I've read this summer, and I liked it the best. They are all very similar in style, tone, what have you. Like the others this one starts in the present, and then backs up a year or two to explain how 4 or 5 bizarre plotlines ultimately braid together. If you liked the movie Pulp Fiction, you'll like these books. They are definitely lighter than PF, but both combine the same blends of violence and humor. But much, much heavier on the humor in a Dorsey. One of the other reviews complained that there was not enough character development. This ain't Jane Austin. It is still well-written. <br />Orange Crush actually has the most character development of any of the Dorsey's I've read. We watch Marlon Conrad, the spoiled rich privileged son of a Florida political power broker grow from a puppet Lt. Gov. to a Jimmy Stewart, Mr. Smith goes to Tallahassee-type. We see Serge make an impact on politics and soft tissue. We see Marlon's competitor for Governor stuff pigs in a blanket into his cheeks and pocket. We laugh. We wear stunned expressions. We buy the next book.<br />Read it and laugh!	2003-07-24
US	51386781	RTIJ7BV55NHTQ	0385504470	598573199	Lullaby: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Original, with a little re-hash on the side	Chuck Palahniuk is a real writer, an artist with words, who manages to create entertainment at the same time. I've enjoyed all his books that I've read, Fight Club, Choke and now this, but I'd recommend the other two over this one. <br />As always, it is fresh and original but I think he took a little from his own works and put it in here. It certainly has all the weird ways of the world he always includes. I'll never forget the shattered baby incident, that's fo' sho'.<br />One thing to add; I listened to this as a Book on Tape. In hindsight, that is not the way to experience Palahniuk. You need to see the words and layout on the page to get the full experience. Skip the tape and buy the book.	2003-07-12
US	51386781	R3JU1ZV59KINOC	0385504470	598573199	Lullaby: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Original, with a little re-hash on the side	Chuck Palahniuk is a real writer, an artist with words, who manages to create entertainment at the same time. I've enjoyed all his books that I've read, Fight Club, Choke and now this, but I'd recommend the other two over this one. <br />As always, it is fresh and original but I think he took a little from his own works and put it in here. It certainly has all the weird ways of the world he always includes. I'll never forget the shattered baby incident, that's fo' sho'.<br />One thing to add; I listened to this as a Book on Tape. In hindsight, that is not the way to experience Palahniuk. You need to see the words and layout on the page to get the full experience. Skip the tape and buy the book.	2003-07-12
US	51386781	R11PRNPQ1ITRS5	B00009MVHZ	552239081	Coldheart Canyon: A Hollywood Ghost Story	Books	2	10	13	N	N	Isn't this supposed to be scary???	I'll skip the plot synopsis. I just finished COLDHEART CANYON this morning. Page after page, I kept waiting for the point of the novel to surface. I still can't really tell you why Barker wrote the book. There is no real suspense or fright here, and that is why I read Barker. At his best, he creates complex worlds with rich, lush detail that can scare the pants off the reader. It never happens here. The book rambles on for about 650 pages in the paperback version I read, much, much longer than it deserves to be. There was no reason to go on that long, and ultimately, there is no payoff for the readers' time investment. Part of why he wrote it is to mock the veneer deep world of Hollywood and celebrity, but the in-jokes and references to various power players will go over the average readers head.<br />There are some great ideas here that could have been made into a terrific story if Barker had stuck to the ghosts, the half-breeds and the tiled room of The Devils Country. However those elements are inserted in a wide, meandering tale that seems to be a different book all together.<br />Certain elements appear to be stuck in after the fact when an editor read it and said it doesn't make sense. Take the light that ultimately takes Todd to wherever he is supposed to end up. It first appeared about a third of the way through the book when Barker abruptly kills off a supporting character. Clearly that was inserted into the story when he realized the light couldn't just appear in the last 30 pages out of nowhere. It felt out of place with the rest of the story. And a number of other themes feel the same way, stuck on, and not part of the original equipment. <BR>Oh, there is a fair amount of explicit and perverse sex. Not enough to make it an erotic novel but be aware of it so you're not surprised (or disappointed that there isn't more). <BR>Bottom line, unless you are a huge fan of Clive Barker and wouldn't think of missing a word he has written, this is not worth the time.	2003-07-07
US	51386781	R2UU9Y28OFUKUI	0393050939	925418329	Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Dead On Interesting	The night before I started STIFF I was at a Philosophy class where the instructor said something like, \\"One of the strange things about humans is that they are the only animal that knows that all living things die, yet they think that they themselves never will.\\"<br />The next day I started Stiff and began to learn what happens to your corpse after you stop using it. This is a science book that happens to be entertaining, not an entertainment fiction book that has some science in it. Still, it is very entertaining. There is no (or very little) gratuitous gore, but there is gore by the boatload. If you are easily queased, (or should that be very queasy?) this book will be hard to get through in spots in spite of the matter of fact tone and very humorous style.  If you have a reasonably strong stomach this is (mostly) no problem. I had to put away the guacamole and chips when I read one of the earlier chapters on cadaver decomposition research for a University forensic anthropology department. But, by the time I got to later chapters on bullets, bombs and their impact on flesh I was able to read while nibbling on leftover ribs from yesterday's barbeque. <br />Why do you need to use real live cadavers for experiments when a substitute will do? Why not a pig or a chimp or a crash-test dummy? This question is addressed early and easily. The dead are very useful in telling us what limits the living can tolerate. Before you can strap a dummy into a car crash to measure impact, you need to use a cadaver to learn how much impact is ok. Thank someone's dead Grandparent for windshield safety glass, air bags, seat belts and a thousand other innovations that keep our soft pink fleshy parts breathing and alive after a 60 mile an hour wall impact. <br />I gained a lot of respect for the donated dead as \\"heroes\\", directly, for donating their organs and body parts so that a living person can go on doing that, or indirectly, from research so that researchers can learn, for example, which are the most effective shoes to wear for land mine removal. The researchers also come off as courageous for asking their questions and using the appropriate yet taboo material to get at the answer.<br />The writing style is easy, clever, educational and funny. In a chapter devoted to the history of searching for the location of the soul within the body comes this description of the liver:<BR>\\"The human liver is a boss-looking organ. It's glossy, aerodynamic, Olympian. It looks like sculpture, not guts.... The liver gleams. It looks engineered and carefully wrought. Its flanks have a subtle curve...\\"<br />A couple of shortcomings though; one, I wish she had taken her story a little further and revealed the results of some of the testing using cadavers. For instance, what IS the preferred footwear when clearing minefields? The second issue I have is that my conversations were tainted for a couple of weeks after reading the book. As interesting as the topic is, no one really wants to hear about testing fragmentation bullets on cadavers at a barbecue. <br />Would I will my body to medical research now that I've read STIFF? I do have an organ donor card and I used to assume that once I'm dead, I'm dead, so take my organs and transplant them and save lives! Now, however, I don't think I want my severed head, no neck, sitting in a disposable turkey-roasting pan being used for plastic surgeons to practice face-lifts. I mean, come on, a dead guys got to have limits!	2003-06-21
US	51386781	R3CT8WCU7HO67O	0316153915	77432495	Chasing the Dime	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Passing the Time; a nice little read.	This new (Oct 2002) non-Harry Bosch novel by Connelly grabbed my attention from the very first pages. Henry Pierce, the wunderkind owner of a nanotechnology startup is about to hit the big time. His company is bringing a new technology to the market that will revolutionize the computer and pharmaceutical industries and make him immensely rich. He has a whale (a rich investor) ready to land, and work is going great. His personal life though has suffered because of his focus on work. He is just moving into his new apartment in the opening pages, when he starts getting phone calls on his new number from people looking to talk to the ex-owner of the number. Once intrigued, Henry gets to the bottom of what happened to the owner with the same determination that he used to find success in business. <BR>This is a great beach novel. The story is quick moving and the action is pretty believable, although be prepared to mildly (or more) suspend belief in parts. If you've read other novels by Connelly, you will find this one a bit thinner in detail and realism, but don't worry; you'll still have fun. There are the normal Connelly twists, false clues and as always, sub-plots involving the main character's relationship with women. <BR>The book kind of petered out at the end, resolving the plot all of a sudden after boxing Henry in tightly, leaving a couple of loose ends. (This next part won't spoil it for you but it may take away some of the suspense.) Why was such a big deal made about the Company Security officer? What happened to Lucy/Robin after Henry made such a fuss over wanting to help her? And do we care if he gets back with his ex? <br />I've read all of Michael Connelly's other books, and this is a nice, quick read; not his best but still more entertaining then most of the stuff on TV. Try it and have fun.	2003-04-02
US	51386781	RMBOUYA7729LE	0446609145	559013514	Void Moon	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Read it, but don't make it your first Connelly!	I had read all the Harry Bosch stories and started branching out to Connelly's other books when I reached Void Moon on the list. It was ok, 3 stars, when I'd give the first 3 Harry Bosch novels by Connelly 4.5- 5 stars, Angels Fight too, I think.<br />Read the other reviews for plot specifics. Here is my lowdown; spend the money to buy the book and you'll feel ok about it in the morning. It is not his best stuff, but this one had some trademark Connelly twists, nice research and detail into the topic (thievery) and reasonably well rounded characters. On the down side it felt a little too contrived, a little too pat, almost like this was written as much by the author as by the editor and publisher. The criminal is the hero so we have to like her. It is hard to make a felon the good guy, and in doing so it stretches the believability quotient a bit. <br />Connelly has been successful long enough to be a brand name, and not simply an artist as he was in the beginning with Black Echo and Black Ice. The result is that he is expected to produce a new novel every 2 years, whether it is worth publishing or not. This one was  ok, but don't make it your first experience with Michael Connelly.	2003-03-25
US	51386781	R2H6HS71ZYBN93	0812540379	206812108	Maximum Light	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not bad, but not top shlef science fiction.	This was my first book by Nancy Kress. Without knowing anything about else about her writing career, I could tell she is an experienced writer, with a good ability to communicate fairly complex ideas in straight forward fashion. She takes a solid premise - fertility has dropped to the point where the future of the species is threatened - and runs it through the impact on society. Youngsters are a treasured, indulged resource, while old folks litter the parks and streets, and infertile couples yearn for even one child, human or otherwise. That piece of the story is pretty well done. <BR>The science fiction part of the story is a little weak, a danger when writing about the \\"near\\" future. The setting isn't that far into the future so there isn't THAT much different from society and technology today. For example, a hooker isn't wearing just a wig. No, this is sci fi, so she's wearing a holo(gram) wig. Kind of a cheap add-on thrown in during the editing process I thought as I read along. However, I have to add that there was a nice, light non-intrusive techno touch late in the book when Shana, the young female hero, rents a car. She pulls into a gas station to use a terminal to print out driving directions. That was nice, and almost here now. Sort of like making MapQuest easily available in public. <BR>I also liked the multiple, first person approach. The story evolves through the eyes of the several main characters, Shana, a young, rough and tumble female soldier, Cameron, the young, gay male dancer and an old, wealthy scientist with political ties in addition to money (I'm forgetting his name right now.)I enjoyed this by the time I got to the end but had doubts as I was reading along. This sort of story is handled much more deftly by writers like Neal Stephanson in Snow Crash and Diamond Age. I would read another novel by Kress but I'm not going to actively chase it down.	2003-02-05
US	51386781	R1RDGSSHW1AO1L	044661193X	628573598	Basket Case	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Lukewarm to me, may be your favorite.	This was fine, but what's the point? Who wants to read a \\"fine\\" book anyways? Basket Case is well-enough written, has interesting enough characters, splashy settings, blah, blah, blah. It just didn't click for me. I wandered through the story thinking \\"oh, that's interesting, but so what\\"? The humor wasn't that funny, the plot twists that stunning. Hiaasen' style just is not my cup of tea. I read one of his earlier books on the recommendation of a friend, Sick Puppy (that's the books name, not the friend). I had the same reaction; well-enough written, sort of funny but just not my type, not compelling. I respect him enough as a pop fiction writer but Hiaasen will never be a writer that I anxiously await his next offering. <BR>There are plenty of other great reviews that I've read that lead me to suggest that you pick up a copy of Basket Case. You may find it hits your spot. It just missed mine.	2003-01-29
US	51386781	R3KCUD7OYM779D	0380730359	165181769	Gone, Baby, Gone: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Entertaining, funny and a moral dilemma	In the last 30 day I`ve read all five of Lehane' Kinzie/Gennaro books, finishing Prayers for Rain last night. Lehane has created a terrific franchise in the mystery/thriller arena with his realistic and (more importantly) entertaining pair of detectives. You like these people he's created and believe their motives for what they choose to do as they trek through the plot. Clearly I've found a lot of compelling entertainment in these stories. <br />The first book in the series, A Drink Before the War, really [drew] me in, being in the same vein as the Elvis Cole series by Robert Crais which I also recommend. Both series are consistently well-written, a clear step (or two) above pop/trash/beach fiction, funny, intelligent stories where the plot make sense, and the characters seem frighteningly real. It turned out that the first Kinzie/Gennaro yarn was the lightest. Each one after has ratcheted up the twists and turns, but kept the personality of the characters growing and building. The stories definitely got blacker and bleaker in the depraved actions of the bad guys. By Prayers for Rain, the villain is a hardcore-fulltime psychopath, and Patrick and Angie are a-little-further-than-borderline vigilantes. <br />After racing through five of the books in so short a period, I am struck with a sense of vulnerability. If some bad dude makes it their career to mess with you, and if they have no normal limits to their behavior, you're just [out of luck]. How can a normal, follow the rules type of citizen even comprehend the introduction of aggression and violence into their regular lives?  Unless you have friends to help you out like Kenzie and Gennaro you might as well move out of the country and hope you're never found. Read these, you'll like them.	2003-01-07
US	51386781	R1K7SDB2FX7QE7	0380726289	380093282	Darkness, Take My Hand: A Novel (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Start here and read the whole series	In the last 30 day I`ve read all five of Lehane' Kinzie/Gennaro books, finishing Prayers for Rain last night. Lehane has created a terrific franchise in the mystery/thriller arena with his realistic and (more importantly) entertaining pair of detectives. You like these people he's created and believe their motives for what they choose to do as they trek through the plot. Clearly I've found a lot of compelling entertainment in these stories. <br />The first book in the series, A Drink Before the War, really sucked me in, being in the same vein as the Elvis Cole series by Robert Crais which I also recommend. Both series are consistently well-written, a clear step (or two) above pop/trash/beach fiction, funny, intelligent stories where the plot make sense, and the characters seem frighteningly real. It turned out that the first Kinzie/Gennaro yarn was the lightest. Each one after has ratcheted up the twists and turns, but kept the personality of the characters growing and building. The stories definitely got blacker and bleaker in the depraved actions of the bad guys. By Prayers for Rain, the villain is a hardcore-fulltime psychopath, and Patrick and Angie are a-little-further-than-borderline vigilantes. <br />After racing through five of the books in so short a period, I am struck with a sense of vulnerability. If some bad dude makes it their career to mess with you, and if they have no normal limits to their behavior, you're just screwed. How can a normal, follow the rules type of citizen even comprehend the introduction of aggression and violence into their regular lives?  Unless you have friends to help you out like Kenzie and Gennaro you might as well move out of the country and hope you're never found. Read these, you'll like them.	2003-01-07
US	51386781	R2N6QMCCUKM8J1	0380730367	240949428	Prayers for Rain (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Can't ask for more in a thriller.	In the last 30 day I`ve read all five of Lehane' Kinzie/Gennaro books, finishing Prayers for Rain last night. Lehane has created a terrific franchise in the mystery/thriller arena with his realistic and (more importantly) entertaining pair of detectives. You like these people he's created and believe their motives for what they choose to do as they trek through the plot. Clearly I've found a lot of compelling entertainment in these stories. <br />The first book in the series, A Drink Before the War, really sucked me in, being in the same vein as the Elvis Cole series by Robert Crais which I also recommend. Both series are consistently well-written, a clear step (or two) above pop/trash/beach fiction, funny, intelligent stories where the plot make sense, and the characters seem frighteningly real. It turned out that the first Kinzie/Gennaro yarn was the lightest. Each one after has ratcheted up the twists and turns, but kept the personality of the characters growing and building. The stories definitely got blacker and bleaker in the depraved actions of the bad guys. By Prayers for Rain, the villain is a hardcore-fulltime psychopath, and Patrick and Angie are a-little-further-than-borderline vigilantes. <br />After racing through five of the books in so short a period, I am struck with a sense of vulnerability. If some bad dude makes it their career to mess with you, and if they have no normal limits to their behavior, you're just screwed. How can a normal, follow the rules type of citizen even comprehend the introduction of aggression and violence into their regular lives?  Unless you have friends to help you out like Kenzie and Gennaro you might as well move out of the country and hope you're never found. Read these, you'll like them.	2003-01-07
US	51386781	R3E7OBRHUUPL7J	0385720920	729613164	Choke	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Just blazingly original and entertaining writing	Victor, a sex addict who is a member of a 12-step group in order to meet new sex partners makes a living off of contributions from Good Samaritans who have rescued him during scam choking-to-death episodes in order to support his crazy institutionalized Mother who may have artificially conceived him using cells from the stolen foreskin of Jesus, is trying to figure out if he's a nice guy or not. Man, that was a fun synopsis to write! It is also a fun book to watch unfold. The blurb on the back says Chuck P has a \\"Swiftian gift for satire\\". I don't know what the heck that means but you'll find a weird, hilarious and twisted story. It's as shocking and off the wall as William S. Burroughs, but as compelling and entertaining as stalking your next date. He doesn't sound like anyone else out there.<br />When I read this book, and Fight Club before it, I was convinced that no one could write this deeply and viscerally about these bizarre events without having lived through them. Palahniuk knows too much to simply be using his imagination. I'm not just talking about being a member of Sex Addicts Anonymous or how to have \\"oops\\" sex in airplane bathrooms. How about knowing the type people who work in a re-creation of a Colonial village? It's a stupid job that requires plenty of recreational (sex and drug) diversions, along with the few employees who really take it seriously. <br />The book ends a little unsatisfactorily. What was it all about? What was I supposed to \\"get\\"? You have to risk your life to get love. You have to get right to the edge of death to be saved. Oh well, great, amazingly original writing, insight into people you'd definitely want to avoid in the suburbs and a quick peek inside a couple of twisted losers. <BR>See also: Ordinary folk. <BR>See also: You and me.	2002-07-19
US	51386781	RF68NYYS8DUTG	0441001335	849436667	The Callahan Touch	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Is this hitting the Bob Hope syndrome?	I first read Callahan's Crosstime Saloon back in college, like the early 80's so I've been a fan for quite awhile. I really enjoyed that book, and also each of the subsequent Callahan books Robinson has put out over the last 20 years. <br />This is not at the same level of quality and originality that the earlier books were. The Callahan Touch felt like he's really writing for his die-hard fans who are easier and more lenient on the rough spots.  Would someone \\"get this\\" if they happened to find a copy at the library? Would it stand on its own? It's sort of like all those Star Trek paperbacks they've written over the last decade, if you love the characters, you love being able to keep reading about them, even in a sub-par tale. This book is where the series starts to be about a cult rather than simply telling a story about a unique group of people. They are starting to be larger and better than life. The blur between fictional characters and events, and the desire to have them exist in real life gets a little fuzzed. (Callahan's Key will take it even further down this path.) . Look, I love the stories but I'm not converting to a religion. What is the old saying? \\"It is the story, and not the teller\\"? I don't care if Spider is a cool guy or not, I just want a good story to read and maybe think about. Spider seems to have begun to be in it for the money. Not a bad thing at all, it's just it was so much more fun when it was about just the story. <br />But, who really cares? I'm critical because I expect a lot based on the enjoyment I've had with this group of characters over the years. This is, as always, a clever, fun, witty, and enjoyable read. If you've read Robinson before, you will enjoy the Callahan Touch and know he has better stuff out there. If this is your first one, find his earlier stuff now. You're in for a treat!<br />I'd really love to see Spider write one more fun, old-style Callahan novel. I'd hate to have Spider become like Bob Hope, famous for doingsomething no one remembers anymore, just that he's famous for being famous.	2002-06-26
US	51386781	R74XR70WSIH10	0446676454	72634172	The Extremes	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Virtually real	I picked this up by chance at a bookstore, never heard of the author prior. I was about 50 pages in when I recalled I had originally found it in the SF section. Where was the science fiction part of the story? This was starting out as just a good novel, cleanly written, with a great eye for insignificant detail that helps flesh out the tale. Having read SF throughout most of my reading career, I know most of it is plot driven with characters and settings just used to push along the nifty story. This book takes its time (luxuriates?) developing the main character, Teresa Simons, a real woman who adapts within character to the unfolding events. Its done so well I assumed the author was a woman. (He's not).  She has grown up in England, the daughter of a career US military man,becomes an FBI agent, and one day loses her husband in a random spree massacre. <br />This is the kind of SF I need now and then, maybe the best kind; where the whole story isn't techy, there is just one added element/theme to a time that could otherwise be today, ExEx. (Extreme Experience, virtual reality on steroids.) The story takes a very pleasant ramble through Teresa's' life, and from time to time she does an ExEx scenario, first for FBI training and later through a commercial provider. The iterative process she goes through to improve her performance is the most interesting of the whole book. I want this in my life for home, work and social situations. It's like the movie Groundhog Day with Bill Murray, where he is trapped into relieving the same day over and over again, until he eventually he gets it right. How cool would that be?? <BR>The rich, lush detail of the novel echoes the supposed detail Teresa finds in the hyper-real VR scenarios. Eventually the plot becomes complicated as she enters an ExEx scenario during which she enters an ExEx scenario....and so on. It's like looking into two mirrors reflecting each other. <br />There were a couple of loose ends that didn't hit me until a few days after finishing. What happened to Nick and Amy, the folks who run the hotel? They just disappear from one page to the next after they sell their stories. Also, what is up with the execs from GunHo corp? They make a big splashy extrance and then they too exit stage right. I'm sure its all in here, I'm just too used to obvious plot points. Oh well, I'll pay more attention when I read it again.<br />So here's the question you'll have to solve: Does the whole story take place inside an ExEx, or does she only choose at the end to avoid \\"real\\" reality without her dead husband by staying permanently in a scenario? <br />Many books compell me to race through them to see what happens next. This made me keep coming back to enjoy spending a little more time with Teresa.	2002-06-18
US	51386781	R36OQ6R5DZRGNO	0312282753	639616457	Money Wanders: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Read this at the Jersey shore this summer!	OK, here's the brief plot synopsis:<BR>boy living in the modern world of PR/polling and the Internet is drawn back home to New Jersey and the Mob background that his grandfather was prominent in and wanted him to leave behind. It's an interesting merger of a mafia story with modern technology. <br />I found this on the new book shelve in the library and the synopsis caught my attention. I'm glad I picked it up. This is an entertaining read with a more substance than the typical summer novel. For a first novel, it is excellent, much richer than you would expect. For any novel, this is a fine read, well worth the time investment for you thriller fans out there. <br />The story was not predictable; you really had to hang in to the end to figure out what was going to happen. The characters get fleshed out as real people. I'd guess the author is from Jersey and knew these kinds of people growing up. He also knows the world of modern polling and media manipulation. Read his bio on the book jacket for some interesting background.<br />There were a couple of times you'd want to go back and read a sentence or two as some of the metaphors were a little strained but they stood out as exceptions. This guy is a very decent writer. I'll read his next one.	2002-06-18
US	51386781	R3LFPD6SV15HEC	0385495854	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Entertaining but not Crais' best effort.	I've read all of Crais' books now, having just finished HOSTAGE last night. It's a good read but for those of you who are Crais fans, here's how it compares to all his others.<br />First, the Elvis Cole books. Great stories, well-developed characters, pretty realistic storylines and a real personality. The smart-assed tone is well played in the whole series, and there are some very funny elements. These books are pure entertainment, and fairly light reading. (BTW, if you like the Elvis Cole's, you'll also go for the Stephanie Plum series by Janet Evanovich.) <br />Then he wrote L.A. Requiem, same Elvis Cole/Joe Pike characters, but a much different tone. Better written, or maybe more seriously written than the rest of the Cole series, and very enjoyable. This one wasn't played for laughs and sarcasm, and it worked. A great read that showed Crais to be a solid writer. He'll be read for many years to come.<br />Next, Demolition Angel. New main character, not in the wisecracking detective genre, and again, it worked. Very entertaining in a different way than the Cole books. Also a very believable plot. The main character, Carol Starkey, is realistic, alive, and not particularly likable if you were to meet her in real-life. But written in a way that you appreciate how she got to be how she is, and you see aspects in her by the end of the book that let you know she'll maybe get it together eventually. I'm looking forward to the next one with her in it. <br />Then we get to HOSTAGE. I enjoyed it as well but it's not of the same caliber as the rest of Crais' books. I'd put it in the same serious category as Demolition Angel and L.A. Requiem, and not in the Elvis Cole, smart-assed detective group. I'm going to guess that Crais had a different process for writing this time around. I picture him earlier in his career, crafting his stories by himself, not a lot of professional publishing house help, working until he got them just the way he wanted. This book seems like it wasplotted by committee and targeted to be something other than an entertaining read. Maybe a movie or a new series? And believable all the way through? Not this time around. It reads a little like he wrote two separate stories and then forced them together to create one book. The plotline that focuses on Jeff Talley, ex-LAPD hostage negotiator and the 3 small-time punks in a snow-balling out of control situation works. It reads as good as any of his earlier stuff, real and attention- grabbing. The Mafia angle however just seems from out of left field. It would have been a better, more memorable story with that taken out entirely. It is just too far-fetched to fit in with the rest of the novel. <br />Having said that, I'll tell you that an ordinary Robert Crais book is going to be a better investment of time than almost anyone else's best stuff. Bottom line, read the other Crais's first and you'll add this author to your favorite list. HOSTAGE isn't a disappointment, but it's not his best.	2002-06-03
US	51386781	R2J97W8DZ2KP0C	1891369288	295667549	The Runner and the Path: An Athlete's Quest for Meaning in Postmodern Corporate America	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A great read!	I'm not a runner and I'm not in to New Age anything, mystics, spoon benders or waterless hand cleaners, so I picked up this book with some trepidation. As a terminal businessman though, I was attracted by the title and wondered what he could possibly mean by a quest for meaning in &quot;postmodern Corporate America&quot;? <br />If you're a runner, there is a lot here that you'll find interesting, and even wonderful about this book. Read it for the great descriptions of running as a part of your life. I have to admit that I was (almost) tempted to put on some shoes and head off down the road. While I've never had even a glimmer of the draw to running that many people have, this book provided clear insights into the athletic attraction as well as the unexpected near-spiritual aspects of running.<br />This book really hit home for me on the business stuff. There are some very engaging anecdotes. You'll particularly enjoy them if you have a technical or telecomm background.  Business books are usually devoid of any entertainment value, or even entertaining presentations of ideas; this book is compelling. <br />Ottati is easy to read. He has some straight-forward ideas that he gently introduces, then illustrates and expands on with stories and analogies that make clear, targeted sense. Later chapters build on ideas and stories introduced earlier. <br />Ottatis' thoughts are clearly presented. Interesting thoughts. Universal thoughts. Are they all entirely unique? These are mid-life ponderings that all of us have when we've gotten 20 years away from college idealism and are wondering, late at night, what it's all about. What is unique is that he has presented them in original fashion, with actual thought involved (!), and descriptions of how he adapts the way he lives his life in response to the conclusions he arrives at. It helped me formulate my own thoughts about these issues. <br />I was somewhat curious when I read that this was a first effort at writing, and wondered if I'd find weak writing, clichd style, etc. Not to worry at all. This is a well-written book. The ideas or philosophy parts are clear and coherent; the anecdotes are very entertaining, and above all, there is a point! Go figure, there was a reason to write this and he stuck with it all the way through. If this is his first book, I'm anxious to read his next after he's gained this experience.	2002-05-09
US	51386781	R3KXXYNQ9H49YA	0312276885	840537150	The Sigma Protocol	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Makes Michael Crichton look like Shakespeare	I enjoy Michael Crichton's novels, but I know just what I'll get; a great, original plot with 2 dimensional characters designed to push the story along. Fine, it will still be an original story and that is enough.<br />Ludlum, in the Sigma Protocol, has characters of single dimension push along a one-dimensional plot. Worse, you've read it before in every single Ludlum novel you've ever read. I was about 150 pages into this book when I remembered why I stopped reading Ludlum years ago; every book is the same, every book has the same flaws. This is the best-selling worst writer out there. I am always surprised by the depths of the bad writing. It is definitely not to a professional level, and if he were just starting out now, no one would publish him. I would like to see how much the final draft was fixed up in the editing process.<br />Here are a few examples that come to mind:<br />If the characters overhear a newscast or see a newspaper, it will be pertinent to the plot, and in the next few pages. Nothing happens simply to give you a feel for the characters or to flesh out the atmosphere. This is irritating in a thriller novel because if it's there you know it will be used. There are no false clues or even slight attempts to throw you off the trail. <BR>The dialog is interchangeable; there is no difference in style, tone or however it is that real writers do it so you know that a particular comment is from the female good-guy, or the male bad-guy. Any of them can say anyone's lines and that story won't change. I think Ludlum would change who was speaking simply because a certain numbers of lines had passed, to make it appear as a conversation were taking place. Instead, he writes what could be monologues and attributes them to random characters.<BR>Ben and Anna, (the good guys) never take a false step, never get into a corner, never are without a highly skilled expert to call, never call and find that expert not able to pick up the phone. They are on the run and never have a problem paying for hotels, international airline tickets, food, and clothes. This plot only would work if Ben were super rich, expertly trained and a superb physical specimen. What??!?! He is?? Then let's write this ...!!!<br />I was a quarter of the way invested into the book when I realized that Ludlum was still as bad as he ever was, but I figured I'd see it through to the end. It is bad to the point it becomes funny. If you read it, count how many people Ben and Anna meet to get crucial plot advancing info, only to have them die violent assassinations mere moments after they leave. You'd think that after 2, 3 or at least 5 times they'd say, hey, someone may be following us, let's at least check to be sure the next guy we visit has his life insurance paid up before we lead the assassins to them.<br />I finished the story wondering why Ludlum wrote this. Did he need the money that badly? A contractual obligation? Maybe this was a test to see how gullible the reading public can be. I sure was.	2002-04-08
US	51386781	R3BJZM0DUCPKDI	0316930164	838798147	All too Human	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Its the biography, stupid!	I've noted in a number of other reviews a common complaint with the book; where is the detail on Clinton, or Hilary, Gore or other aides? This is a biography of Stephanopoulos, not a story of Clinton. It's George's perspective about the whole experience, not just about Clinton. You will learn what George thought about Clinton, what impressed him, and what disappointed him about his boss. This book gives you a great feel for what George lived through during the 2 election campaigns and Clinton's first term. He is honest about his vying for position with the President against other advisors, about things he did well, and times that he blew it. You come away feeling what it might really be like to work on the inside of the greatest office in the world, the glamour, the ad hoc scrambling to push positions through Congress, the constant damage control sessions, the full-time job to spin facts into the desired public perception (George is the Rumplestiltskin of the White House in that regard). <br />It confirmed what I'd felt reading newspapers about the Clinton administration during the first term; the White House and Congress are not all working together in the best interests of the US. Rather, each faction, whether Repub, Demo, Special Interest, etc. is only trying to maximize their own interests at the expense of anyone else's. (Sounds like a good application for Nash's game theory). Sure, this account is not an objective overview of anything; this is what George saw, felt, did, how he failed and succeeded. Anyone wanting to work in politics will find it interesting. Anyone affected by politics (that's all of us citizens) will cringe at realizing it's all on the job training each time a new administration comes in to office. I really enjoyed the read.	2002-01-15
US	51386781	R2U4HZ5WQ1H7KB	1892062135	222287390	The Lost Journals of Nikola Tesla : Haarp - Chemtrails and Secret of Alternative 4	Books	1	19	26	N	N	Awful, National Enquirer level work	I was so irritated by this book that I'm writing this review. Like one of the reviewers above, I recently found out about Tesla (I was reading a Spider Robinson book) and was intrigued enough to jump onto Amazon to find a decent, casual biography on the man. What did he invent, why didn't he receive the fame due him, is there anything he invented still used today? One of the stories on Telsa I was looking to confirm was that he had had his invention of radio ripped off by Marconi! I happened to pick this book and was disappointed to the point of being pissed off. This book is not professionally written or edited, sounds like stories out of tabloids, has no organization, and throws in illustrations randomly that do not add useful information to the topic being discussed.<BR>It is all sensation, no facts. Well, they present plenty of \\"facts\\" but nothing with a real source. All the \\"facts\\" are anecdotal, not substantiated in any rigorous way. It sounds purely made up when you read it. They imply that he was the target of government and corporate interference both during his day and even currently. I have heard stories of that in other sources but here it is presented as a big conspiracy that you have to believe in on faith. They even talk about Men in Black coming to steal his old papers from a collector. Unbelievable!<BR>There is no coherent overview of his life, his inventions, his patents. This is written by people who long to live in the world of the X-Files for real and never paid attention in high school English class. After reading this book I'm still curious about Tesla but now I'm out [good money].	2001-11-03
