US	51382084	R2JX9R3EM1IM1G	0312341156	246588173	Where the Right Went Wrong: How Neoconservatives Subverted the Reagan Revolution and Hijacked the Bush Presidency	Books	5	8	14	N	N	AN ODD REFORM OF THE REPUBLICIAN  PARTY	Buchanan is a great guy and has always been right about many things but this book is mostly just another restatement of what he has been saying for years. If you don't know what he has been saying then you might consider it for sure, otherwise I can't really recommend it. In short, he is a rightist or conservative who wants, 1) a more aggressively conservative social agenda, 2) less free trade, and 3) a much less aggressive foreign policy, particularly as regards Israel and Iraq.     The quality of the arguments is average I'd say; not so much because Buchanan is dumb, he certainly isn't, but more because the arguments are shaped to sound like campaign rhetoric, which probably he intended, rather than rational academic thought; so what you can learn is somewhat limited.     The social issues are open to endless debate anyway. Buchanan does not seem to advance the cause much, but then again that would be a problem for almost anyone. On the Middle East I think he is quite right in suggesting that if we had pushed Israel toward peace at the '67 borders, rather than toward war and expansion in the West Bank, the Middle East and Osama Bin Ladin never would have been a problem, and all those dead or wounded people would be fine now.     On free trade he is simple wrong with his logic that all of our manufacturing jobs are going to low wage China and India. Buchanan was a typical Republican free trader until someone in New Hampshire asked him, during a presidential campaign, \\"how are you going to save my job from going overseas?\\" At that point truth was cast out the window in search of votes. Richard Nixon stated the truth best when he said, \\"America must produce world class goods.\\" He knew that the more protected an industry was from foreign competition, the more inferior its goods and its country would become. He also knew that with each new individual with whom you are allowed to trade, no matter what city, state, or country he lives in, the wealthier you will become.     On free trade and foreign policy he's actually closer to Democrats than modern day Republicans. Ideally he would want to purge the Republican Party of the neo-conservatives who have engineered the Middle East and 9/11 disasters, the free traders who rely on decades of established economic wisdom, and the weaklings who won't fight for conservative social issues such as tradition marriage. It seems a long shot at best but,in the wake of George Bush's ideologically very confused administration Middle East debacle, who knows what will emerge.   [...]	2005-01-11
US	51382084	R1V6D1SSADFGG2	1586482610	322421618	The Case For Democracy	Books	1	34	133	N	N	Very Simplistic	In short, I felt ripped off by this book. It merely said that if the civilized democratic world successfully encourages the rest of the world toward democracy (rather than seeks detente or peaceful coexistence) the world will be a better place with less war, more prosperity, and more human rights. Our actions toward the former USSR are a primary example used by Sharansky. <br />      Sharansky is something of a fanatic about  this concept  even within Israel believing that if only Israel and the world would devote its energy to bringing democracy to Palestine, the Israel Palestinian conflict would simply fade away.  <br />      Certainly his idea is somewhat simplistic in light of the ambiguous results achieved in Korea, Vietnam, and Iraq and somewhat true in light of the better but far more deadly results achieved in Germany and Japan after WW2. All in all this book introduces nothing obviously or remotely new. It packs nowhere near the punch I would want for $24 and 5 hours of my time. <br />      Ending the Palestinian conflict with democracy is even a little annoying, pedantic, and academic as the world sits on the brink of a Muslim inspired WW3 which might feature a massive anthrax and or small pox attack on the U.S. A more practical solution is for the US to convene an international summit where it would be resolved to build and internationally defend a wall of peace at the 67 or 73\\" borders. Those who did not participate or offer a more practical solution would be obliged to forever shut up as the world agreed on the final solution to the conflict.	2004-11-30
US	51382084	R3OT8E575CKQVR	0195167716	960527707	Adams vs. Jefferson: The Tumultuous Election of 1800 (Pivotal Moments in American History Series)	Books	5	1	19	N	N	THE GREATEST BATTLE IN POLITICAL HISTORY	<br />\\"Adams vs. Jefferson\\" by John Ferling is about the election of 1800 which was perhaps the most important demarcation point in human political history. It was the point at which the meaning of the American Revolution was decided. It featured Thomas Jefferson and the Republicans who believed, as modern Republicans do, that the American Revolution was a revolution for freedom, freedom from government. Jefferson believed, \\"the gov't which governs best, governs least.\\" On the opposing side were the Democrats (called Federalist at the time) led by Alexander Hamilton and John Adams who believed the Revolution was merely a revolution for freedom from the British govt. Republicans feared they were American monarchists. In fact John Adams was pulled around in a regal chariot reminiscent of George III and Alexander Hamilton had many schemes to dramatically increased the power of the Federal gov't. <br /> <br />The Republicans won the bitter and close election thus vanquishing the Democrats for 133 years until the Great Depression seemingly gave them an ideal opportunity to consolidate power in their federal hands where in theory it would be used to provide deliverance from economic calamity. Instead it led directly to 10 years of depression and 5 years of world war. The Democrats got another big chance in the 1960s when they promised to help long suffering blacks. It led to welfare and other programs that all but destroyed the black family and culture in America. <br /> <br />The value of freedom was always obvious to some, but from Jefferson forward and back, there were always Democrats who schemed to gather power under one guise or another, and who always then failed, sometimes at the cost of millions of lives, in direct proportion to how much power they succeeded in gathering. Jefferson established the first significant Republician beachhead in human history against the ever threatening Democrats and to this day his spirit keeps America, as Ronald Reagan famously said, \\"the last best hope for freedom on earth.\\" <br /> <br />For those who might want to trace the history of the Parties throughout American History I recommend \\"The Life Of The Parties\\" And for those who might want to focus on the just difference between the parties I recommend \\"Understanding the Difference Between Democrats and Republicans\\". <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-11-24
US	51382084	R20AZDCMVLL1M5	1400041759	607262102	De Kooning: An American Master	Books	3	12	81	N	N	Modern Art and LIberalism	This book is fine if you are interested in the details of de Kooning. They are available here in copious and interesting detail. But the book lacks perspective in that it does not address the meaning of de Kooning or of modern art in general, which ought to be the starting point. If you trace the recent history of art from figuration to abstraction you begin to see modern artists merely throwing paint on a canvas in great liberal existential frustration. They killed God only to be reborn as neurotically befuddled and overwhelmed by the complexity, hypocrisy, and ambiguity of modern life. They don't know what life means or how to deal with it, but they are nevertheless egomaniacally certain that they should be the ones to define this brave new world for the rest us, with paint thrown on a canvas, no less. Sadly though they seem to have been born at a time when nothing new is needed. As a result, the \\"all new all the time\\" incoherent mayhem that modern art and liberalism creates for the world is not so different from what a baby creates in his diaper and then proudly and oh so earnestly offers to the world as new, which it is, in a sense. Pollock and de Kooning are the most famous examples of this reflection of modern life. Their personal lives reflect in every way that this is badly mistaken. It is undoubtedly, though, what the art world has come to, but it is also what history will come to regard as a mistake, or at best a respite from real art while artists learned to cope with modernity like real adults.	2004-11-23
US	51382084	RB3BJLWKDYS5A	0060746874	829392802	Crimes Against Nature: How George W. Bush and His Corporate Pals Are Plundering the Country and Hijacking Our Democracy	Books	1	23	176	N	N	RFK Jr., SADLY,  IS AN  ENVIRONMENTAL LUNATIC	RFK Jr., SADLY,  IS AN  ENVIRONMENTAL LUNATIC  <br /> <br />     In his new book \\"CRIMES AGAINST NATURE\\" RFK.Jr, God bless him and his family, is a pure environment lunatic. He believes, perhaps having misunderstood Orwell, that America is a crony-Capitalist or fascist state where we have pollution simply because industry pays off politicians. He swears up and down that this is exactly true with a child like enthusiasm that makes you believe the mercury level in his brain is as high as he says it is. <br /> <br />     His theory is that a company will, for example, pay a politician $1 million to, in effect, buy a law or regulation that will enable it to save many millions on the cost of pollution control. According to basic Econ. 101 this theory is just plain goofy since a company passes on all its costs to consumers, i.e., if FORD has to put 4 wheels, an airbag, and a catalytic converter on every car it doesn't really care because the customer obviously pays for these things. However, a company would always care about costs if it fears its' customers can't afford to pay them. So if Ford fears that its customers can't buy cars, which presumably they use to take the kids to school, get themselves to work, and visit granny in the old folks home, one might more accurately say they are saints rather than Fascist polluters.  <br /> <br />        Moreover RFK Jr. is such a single minded and devout tree hugger that he presumes to know exactly what pollution controls he wants the gov't to force down our throats. This actually is a fascist attitude! He doesn't care about business or consumers. He cares about himself. He wants to further control mercury, for example, which many say is controlled, while 40 million Americans kill themselves and others with cigarettes. He wants to control lead while 60 million Americans kill themselves with fast food and obesity. RFK Jr. does not care about what a free people want and can afford, he cares, in  his Fascist way, with only what he wants.  <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-09-16
US	51382084	R2MG3FQ0EHSP61	0684802414	922794017	Why Marriages Succeed or Fail: And How You Can Make Yours Last	Books	2	17	72	N	N	A Scientist And Marriage???	Dr. Gottman's claim to fame(even Oprah once said he's # 1) is that he is a scientist who relies on long term data analysis while almost everybody else in his business relies on intuition and data from the limited number of patients with whom they work. Gottman says, 'much of the conventional wisdom even among marital therapists-is misguided or dead wrong.' He encourages us to read on with great anticipation indeed. So what does all this amount to? Not much at all it turns out. He says he can predict divorce(in one study anyway) with 94% accuracy and that 'may'(page 21) help you back away from the slippery slope of divorce. In another book of his he says of the same study, 'accuracy of prediction does not mean I understand the process involved in the maintenance or deterioration of a marriage.' So then who needs idle and probably meaningless predictions? The first italicized words come on page 28: If there is one lesson I have learned from my years of research it is that a lasting marriage results from a couple's ability to resolve the conflicts that are inevitable in any relationship.' This is a major conclusion? How could it be when we already know that couples who divorce obviously haven't resolved their differences? It is a given that if you don't resolve conflicts you will divorce. No two people want exactly the same thing. Where to live, when to have sex, how to spend money, etc,etc are all conflicts that people in love work out; if they didn't they wouldn't be in love. So what on earth does it mean to conclude that a couple must resolve conflicts to remain a couple? Agreement on where to go on a first date represents the resolution of a conflict; without this there is no relationship. Did someone ever argue that an inability to resolve conflicts was good for a marriage, or any relationship of any kind for that matter?  <br />   Then we learn about the 'four horseman of the apocalypse': criticism, defensiveness, contempt. and stonewalling, that lead sequentially toward divorce. Again Dr. Gottman has the same problem. Nobody ever argued that the 4 horseman were good for marriage. Besides, everybody can add to his four anyway. How about alcoholism, physical abuse, hatred, adultery, absence, chronic unemployment, drug abuse, emotional abuse, criminality, and feminism. If your wife develops a huge alcohol problem or your husband beats you or is sleeping with the mailman you don't want to interrupt the four horseman sequence, you want to run for your life. Yes, when there is a problem a couple uses the four horseman but to kill the four horseman you first have to kill the problem. It seems in his fervor to position himself as a marriage scientist and to then measure things that were scientifically measurable Dr. Gottman has forced himself into irrelevancy when he should have formulated his hypothesis in a meaningful way that might have led to meaningful conclusions. Simple books like Men Are From Mars or The 91% Factor: Why Women Initiate 91% of Divorce offer simple actionable conclusions that didn't take a lifetime of work and clearly stick with you after the book is long gone.  <br /> <br />Also recommended: MEN ARE FROM MARS----and---- THE 91% FACTOR:WHY WOMEN INITIATE 91% OF DIVORCE <br />	2004-09-13
US	51382084	REL3K210BGMY9	047146502X	312680518	The Case for Israel	Books	3	3	46	N	N	Its past history now.	Most importantly, this book is now largely irrelevant given that the fighting between the Israelis and Palestinians has been eclipsed by the larger battle between the United States  and Iraq. Moreover Israel has virtually ended its battle with the Palestinians anyway by building a wall that has stopped the only remaining Palestinian weapon, i.e., the suicide bomber.  <br />    The book itself is a series of nit picky little arguments such as: did Israel start the six day war, and, is Israel serious about peace. Dershowitz attempts to make \\"The Case for Israel' by pretending he is in the courtroom and wining a series of little debates with himself. He makes a lot of sense talking about irrelevant things while what you really wanted to read about was the way to achieve peace. He says precious little about acheiving  peace, not that it matters given that the wall has achieved peace long before his silly arguments ever would have. What he does say about peace is rational but simpplistic goofy boilerplate stuff like \\"the Palestinians must give up the right of return,\\" and the Palestinians must accept Israels right to exist.\\" <br />    Still the Israeli/Palestinian war was the original tumor that Clinton and Bush stupidly metastasized into 9/11, Afghanistan, and now Iraq. So perhaps what Dershowitz should be writing about is how the the US and Israel should demand that the world community, the UN, and Nato, legitimize and defend the wall of peace that Israel has built, redefine its route somewhat and/or demand that the settlements be abandoned, propose a more practical solution, or forever shut up about the conflict and actively support the current peace. <br />	2004-08-30
US	51382084	RZE4FIPV2WXD4	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	5	60	76	N	N	Swift  Boat controversy simplified	This is a great book the context of which must be understood:  <br />   1) Kerry has refused to release his Military records surrounding the incidents in question <br />   2) Kerry has refused to allow his own book \\"The New Soldier\\" to be printed <br />   3) According to the swift boat veterans and common sense Kerry's 4 months in Vietnam were at worst, fictionalized, and, at best, far less heroic than his medals would imply. <br />   4) Kerry spent the immediate post war time making vicious statements against: the US, the military, its soldiers (baby killers, etc.) , and anti-communism. <br />   5) Kerry spent the remaining 25 years as one of the most liberal politicians in the country voting against the military more so than almost any other politician. <br />   6) As a presidential candidate and prospective commander-in-chief during war he had little or no credibility given this history. The polls continue to show this. <br />   7) Kerry, despite being a presidential candidate, has taken no position on the current War on Terror  <br />    8) Kerry's deceptive strategy given the above history is to pretend that he is now \\"reporting for duty\\" as if he is well qualified and eager to be commander-in-chief. <br />    9) Something like 65% of Americans don't believe he would be a willing or effective commander-in-chief given his history but despite their huge dissatisfaction with Bush. <br />   10) Kerry's response in addition to silence, refusal to release is records or book, or state a war policy, has been to accuse the Bush campaign of sponsoring the swift boat veterans. <br />Some vague connections have been demonstrated which is no surprise given that they all seem to hate Kerry having served with him. But certainly the idea that Bush campaign somehow made all 250 of them lie is purely absurd.  <br />   My personal point of view is that Kerry's ultra liberal 25 years after the war, when he could not have been elected to dog catcher anywhere in America except Massachusetts is far more important than the 4 months in Vietnam. But still, when 250 of the guys who served with him and under him in Vietnam write a book saying he largely falsified his entire Vietnam experience you have to consider that even that tiny 4 month period is a meaningful indictment of a prospective commander-in-chief in time of war.  <br />	2004-08-30
US	51382084	R1ZWHRUOJAQDP7	0521009677	659589273	The Birth of the Palestinian Refugee Problem Revisited (Cambridge Middle East Studies)	Books	5	33	67	N	N	Thinking for the first time about Israel	In short, this book, by precisely detailing the exact origins of the Palestinian crisis-town by town-,holds Israel at least partially or perhaps fully responsible for the refugee crisis and, by implication, the entire war on terrorism. It has particular impact because Benny Morris is a tenured Jewish Israeli scholar and therefore cannot be summerly dismissed as anti-Semitic. Moreover it makes us wonder why it is that America, despite virtually no international support, came to so blindly enable and supply Israeli aggression rather than to support, with an easily assembled and very powerful international coalition, an imposed wall or peace fence at the UN established and internationally recognized 1948 or 1967 borders. The book is a long, detailed, and fully footnoted 600 pages, but if it makes us wonder if we should rethink or, more accurately, be brave enough to think for the first time about Israel and the war on terrorism, then it is well worth every page. Please write to me if this doesn't make perfect sense. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-12
US	51382084	R1CLPKN4IRVNZ	0374524971	762916649	Fighting Terrorism: How Democracies Can Defeat Domestic and International Terrorists	Books	1	12	47	N	N	The ABCs of the War on Terror	This book: &quot;Fighting Terrorism&quot; by Benjamin Netanyahu, the past and future Prime Minister of Israel is pure propaganda. The central purpose of the book is to convince us that Israel's enemies are our enemies. In truth Zionism contemplated war in the Middle East in the 19th century. Now, the Zionists have their long planned war. The US (out of ignorance, and guilt over the holocaust) has supplied the Zionists with weapons and accordingly was attacked on 9/11 in retaliation. That led directly to the current bizarre war in Iraq which Netanyahu desperately loves because now the U.S. is not only supplying weapons to the Zionists but is also directly fighting their Muslim enemies too.<br />America's abject blindness to this elementary history is so profound that Netanyahu knowingly spent less than a page trying to explain that terrorism is not connected to Zionism at all. Instead Netanyahu would have us believe that the entire Muslim world and much of the rest of the world would still hate us just as much had we not supported Zionism, and attacked Iraq. It is just too self serving and deadly to justify a response.<br />Yes, we all fear terrorism and are therefore subject to exploitation about it. But in truth terrorism is merely a poor mans way of waging war. Does anyone think Arabs and the rest of the world are not afraid of the way rich people wage war? Japan surrendered as nuclear Bombs terrorized them. The Chinese referred to American citizens as B-52s as they lived in terror believing that one day American B-52s would shake the earth beneath their cities with fire bombs. Indeed the whole world lived under a &quot;balance of terror&quot; as the USSR and the U.S. raced to build more and more nuclear weapons, but no one called what were essentially wars of ideology, wars on terror. Netanyahu prefers a war on terror precisely because it distracts from ideology; in this case Zionism, which holds that it is somehow ok to steal land from the Arabs. Americans submit to this trick in part out of abject ignorance and in part out of our endless sympathy for the Jews stemming from the holocaust. Netanyahu wants to destroy terrorism so Zionism can prevail. His objective and the world's objective should be, firstly, to force Israel to live within internationally established and recognized boundaries. Secondly, the objective should be to force the UN to defend those international boundaries until the Arabs give up their dream of pushing Israel into the sea. If this doesn't make perfect sense please let me know.this trick in part out of abject ignorance and in part out of our endless sympathy for the Jews stemming from the holocaust. Netanyahu wants to destroy terrorism so Zionism can prevail. His objective and the world's objective should be, firstly, to force Israel to live within internationally established and recognized boundaries. Secondly, the objective should be to force the UN to defend those international boundaries until the Arabs give up their dream of pushing Israel into the sea. If this doesn't make perfect sense please let me know.	2004-06-25
US	51382084	R60BGT1V3GIVL	1400061946	899669555	An End to Evil: How to Win the War on Terror	Books	1	35	51	N	N	Antisemetic or Antiterrorist?	Richard Perle, one of the authors of this book (An  End To Evil), is often referred to as the \\"prince of darkness.\\" Having read his book I now understand why. He is among the neocons who heavily influenced our country to liberate Iraq, and who also wants a \\"get tough\\" approach  toward all our enemies; especially our Muslim enemies. The get tough stuff is basic boiler plate with few surprises. But, even though we all probably want to defend ourselves from terrorists, who really wants to listen to this guy now that so many of  his key assumptions, as regards the war in Iraq at least, are now looking a little silly: no wmds, no terrorist links, no hero's welcome, Chalibi-a key exile and ally turns out to be a spy,  unexpected Shiite uprisings, Sunni and Shiite unification, horrible post war planning, firing Iraqi military, gigantic misjudgments about US troop strength, no body or humane armor, etc etc?       What I really wanted to understand from this book was the man's, or our government's, basic thinking about the origins of the war. What makes them so hostile? I wanted to see if they understood why the world had united against us or at least what was their understanding of why the entire Muslim world and most of the rest of the world had united against us. Finally at page 189 the subject came up. The author says: \\"the real question asked all over the world is ultimately \\"is the war on terror a Zionist plot ?\\" This is obviously a very important and legitimate question if only because the whole world, according to the authors, is asking it.  The author's answer was dumb, naive, and very brief. He said, anti-Semitism is rampant in the world today, cutting off Daniel Pearl's head is an example, and if you don't support the war on terrorism you are, in effect, anti-Semitic. Then he mentioned that some of the antiwar sentiment was political cowardliness, disdain for Bush, and a general distaste for a proud and confident Israel. Unbelievably no attempt was made to explainwhy the terrorists hate us more than, say, Eskimos or Liberians. The truth is that for 100 years Zionists did plot to take over the mid east and remove the Palestinians. Now the Zionist are doing exactly that and most of the world doesn't think it is fair, and so they have some sympathy for the terrorists who attack the US. After all, we supply many of the arms to Israel that make Zionism possible. The neo con solution is to kill all the terrorists much the way Israel has done in their region. The civilized solution is to recognize that the terrorists are over here because we are over there.       Out of sympathy from the holocaust, the world granted the Zionists Israel 1948. Now the US should unite the world's military and public opinion behind maintaining and defending the internationally recognized boundaries established in 1948, and generously pay the displaced Palestinians. This is fair and practical while the neo cons only want endless killing mostly, it would seem, to cover what Israel is doing and simply because they do not think very well. In this case a small minority has manipulated us with lies, stupid reasoning, and by taking advantage of our endless sympathy for the Jews.	2004-06-08
US	51382084	R5DAB24ZXDEVS	1893554899	289204739	The Return of Anti Semitism	Books	2	20	64	N	N	Feel guilty but don't dare  think	This book (The Return of anti-Semitism) is merely a catalog of the rise in modern anti-Semitism. It ultimately fails deeply and thoroughly by not even attempting to explain the reasons for anti-Semitism or the solutions to anti-Semitism. Indeed, the author even seems quite proud to brag about not knowing the reasons or solutions. It is as if he is so horror struck at the mere thought of anti-Semitism that he feels his only job is to point it out so that the whole world too can be equally horror struck with guilt. Being horror struck, however, is not a sensible or just policy.      It's true that in America we are still horror struck and guilty about anti-Semitism, largely as a result of our particular moral disgust at the German holocaust. Accordingly we always support the Israeli gov't, although nobody really knows where this policy came from or why we pursue it despite the world wide hatred toward us that it has engendered, and the direct connection to 9/11. We don't dare risk sounding anti-Semitic by suggesting  that if we had supported a just peace (internationally built and defended wall at internationally recognized borders) in the Middle East rather than blindly supported the Israeli occupation, 9/11 would probably not have happened. After all, the terrorist are over here because we're over there.        When Likud came to power in Israel they openly swore Israel would no longer be a \\"dwarf state\\" and that they were not occupying the West Bank but rather liberating Judea and Sumeria according to Biblical prophesy. Much of Israel does not support this blatantly imperialist, racist policy; yet America does out of a blind dumb fear of being or feeling anti-Semitic. You can admire us a little for being so sweet,  but how practical  is our sweetness and dumbness when directly and indirectly it caused 9/11 and makes us hated by much of the world? As long as we blindly give Israel the weapons to kill Muslims in the West Bank how can we blame Muslims for thinking ofus as Western Crusaders or Zionist occupiers, and much of the rest of the world for hating us as Texas sized bullies?      The author completely ignores the core issues causing much of modern anti-Semitism and the possible solutions, because he prefers to manipulatively capitalize on the Holocaust guilt that has served Likud's deadly occupation of the Muslim West Bank so well. We can no longer blindly pretend, as this author does, that modern anti-semitism can exist separately from American's and Israel's 50 year war against the Muslim West Bank.	2004-03-23
US	51382084	R1W4GERZJ5U0HM	0671454463	647058784	Picasso: Creator and Destroyer	Books	5	41	50	N	N	Bad Man Great Artist?	\\"Picasso\\" by Arianna Huffington is a very thorough book that can probably be skipped, except possibly by those with an intense interest in Picasso's personal life. For the rest of us it is sufficient to know that Picasso had no friends or family, just groupies (many of whom were family) throughout his life, and, to a person, he treated them despicably. For example, he usually had several women at a time who each worshiped him. He would play them off against each other, often openly and in public, seemingly in an attempt to provoke jealous rage, murder, depression, or suicide (he succeeded grandly at all except for murder, but his best friend took care of that one for him). He found ways to treat the male groupies with equal misery. But, soap operas should last thirty minutes at most. This book goes relentlessly on and on for 500 pages determined to prove that Picasso did not take one decent breath in his whole entire long life.At a certain point the reader begins to wonder that \\"thou dost protest too much.\\"  So then how did he come to be hailed as the genius of the 20th Century; as the man who showed us what our world really was or at least what it really looked like? The answer to this question is somewhat complex. The easiest part of it is that he was like a human camera. He could paint exactly what he saw as if he were a camera, and, he could paint any impression of what he saw, better than any human being alive. He was half way home on that talent alone, meaningless though it may have been. After all, if you can throw a ball better than anyone you are halfway home too. But Picasso's subject was, seemingly, important; one that intellectuals were interested in. Hence if he could capture their imaginations and somehow add their imprimatur to his painting talent the world would be at his feet, where he always felt it belonged.<BR>    Picasso hung out in Paris with many of the world's leading intellectuals. He even wrote a play called \\"Desire Caught By the Tail\\" directed by Albert Camus in which Jean Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir acted. The play was about 10 pages long and nothing more than a series of bizarre scenes similar to what might have appeared in his painting. When Picasso commented about literature he said \\"it seems many writers want to be painters\\" apparently not knowing that the descriptions of visual objects in literature are often mere back drops for the infinitely larger conceptual themes with which language artists deal. He really didn't seem to understand that there was more in the world than pictures. His friend Sartre, a legitimate genius, set the record straight about the essential triviality of pictures in \\"What is Literature\\" when he said, \\"even when Picasso attempted to approach the real world with \\"Guernica\\" does anyone think he changed even a single mind with that painting\\"? And this was before the visual world was forever trivialized by, affordable travel, cameras, video cameras, TV, and film. We don't need a great painter anymore to create \\"The Last Supper\\" and by his choices tell us about the true nature of Jesus. <BR>    It did turn out though that the tyrannical and confused little painter did have something in common with the leading existentialist avant guard intellectuals of his day, namely, they all wanted us to see the world differently. The intellectuals because the world of physics had correctly foreshadowed today's confused world of string theory and because philosophy had foreshadowed the concomitant shift from the certain, well defined world of God to the confused existential world of man. Picasso too wanted us to see the world differently not because he was a physicist or philosopher but because 1) he was so hopelessly neurotic that he did see the world differently as any sick person does and 2) he realized he had to paint differently to develop a reputation as a different and great painter. The intellectuals were happy to use Picasso because his technically ingenious but neurotically confusing paintings did help loosen our grip on old realities. Picasso in turn was happy to use their imprimatur of change to normalize his neurosis and to falsely give philosophical meaning to his immense skill at meaningless painting. That he encouraged us toward misogyny and/or other of his gruel narcissistic indulgences did not matter; it was change, and that was what the intellectuals wanted most. The public really had no idea what was going on as Picasso's legend grew and grew to newer and newer heights of irrationality. Today, Picasso's reputation seems mostly in the hands of art owners, museums, and curators all of whom profit in Picasso's on going and growing legend. This summer's hugely successful Picasso/Matisse exhibit at MOMA , for example, drew 100s of thousands of adoring fans. Curators raved at the point, counter point genius of the two artists; everyone made money, had fun, and wished they too could free their troubled souls and enlighten the world by creating great art, but not a word was ever said about the emperor having no clothes.   <BR>   Norman Mailer, who was taken seriously as the greatest living writer and thinker, is a great fan of Picasso and has written adoringly and extensively about him; so perhaps his view is worth comparing to Huffington's? He and Picasso had things in common: both were diminutive technical genius who gained public adoration and hugely deformed egos at a very early age. Mailer stabbed one of his early wives and clearly behaved a lot like Picasso, and perhaps for many of the same reasons, although he matured as he aged whereas Picasso did not. His portrait of Picasso as a young man tends to be purely forgiving. The idea that internal struggle, suffering, depression, angst, turmoil, and general soap opera leads to great, honest, revolutionary art apparently still lives in Mailer's soul. After all, what can an artist create if not the manifestation of tremendous inner turmoil and growth?<BR>   Mailer forgives Picasso for everything because it was all to produce \\"great art.\\" Sadly, the idea that the traditional, formulaic, hypocritical, country club Republican mentality would be replaced by the existential soap opera playing out in the communist souls of Picasso, Mailer, and French intellectuals seems more a joke today than anything else. So in the end, Huffington is quite right about Picasso, although she doesn't address the meaning of Picasso's art at all, except in so far as she ruthlessly cuts his foundation away.	2003-11-21
US	51382084	R2X9C4M6K1N8YH	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	1	2	6	N	N	Doesn't go Far Enough	\\"Treason\\" just might be one of the most important books ever published. Finally intellectual conservatives have gained enough credibility for the ultra liberal NYC publishing industry to publish a book which directly exposes and then attacks the treasonous liberal soul.  Prayerfully there is much more to come. \\"Treason\\" deals mostly with how the liberal affinity for  big gov't led liberals to spy for, or support those who spied for, the big gov't of the Soviet Union even as that gov't was killing 50 million or so of its own citizens.  But there is so much more to come! There is no mention of domestic policy; of how, for example, liberal big gov't  Welfare schemes directed primarily at Blacks amounted to little more than genocide as more young Blacks went to jail than to college, as illegitimacy rates rose to 70%, and as, almost, the complete destruction of the Black family was realized.  Moreover, there is no mention of how the liberal cancer is killing millions even today. For example, liberal political correctness prevents us from going to Africa or impoverished Muslim countries and speaking the truth, i.e., \\"you're savages, millions of your children are dying needlessly; here's what you need to do: adopt our Constitution, adopt capitalism, and invite our army or an army in to kill those who oppose these civilizing reforms.\\" But, liberalism is the spirit of our times; it hates the Constitution, capitalism, and the army; so millions of innocent babies continue to die slow deaths in their mother's arms as liberals continue to experiment with an ever growing list of goofy, failed, and very deadly liberal programs that ultimately do nothing more than such programs did for the Soviet Union, China, or Cuba.<br />  Regardless of moral issues, 9/11 taught us the strategic implications of how a failed liberal foreign policy toward even the most impotent and impoverished countries can lead to terror here at home. Accordingly, overcoming liberalism is as important as ever. \\"Treason\\" is a brilliant and revolutionary start. Let's pray that there is much more to come. In the mean time there is \\"The War on The Poor\\" and \\"Understanding the Difference Between Democrats and Republicans\\" If this doesn't make perfect sense please contact me to explain why?Treason\\" is a brilliant and revolutionary start. Let's pray that there is much more to come. In the mean time there is \\"The War on The Poor\\" and \\"Understanding the Difference Between Democrats and Republicans\\" If this doesn't make perfect sense please contact me to explain why?	2003-07-28
US	51382084	R3B7JVRBTNRSQA	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	1	2	10	N	N	Doesn't go far enough	\\"Treason\\" just might be one of the most important books ever published. Finally, intellectual conservatives have gained enough credibility for the ultra liberal NYC publishing industry to publish a book which directly exposes and then attacks the treasonous liberal soul.  Prayerfully there is much more to come. \\"Treason\\" deals mostly with how the liberal affinity with big gov't led liberals to spy for, or support those who spied for, the big gov't of the Soviet Union even as that gov't was killing 50 million or so of its own citizens.  But there is so much more to come! There is no mention of domestic policy; of how, for example, liberal big gov't  Welfare schemes directed primarily at Blacks amounted to little more than genocide as more young Blacks went to jail than to college, as illegitimacy rates rose to 70%, and as, almost, the complete destruction of the Black family was realized.  Moreover, there is no mention of how the liberal cancer is killing millions even today. For example, liberal political correctness prevents us from going to Africa and speaking the truth, i.e., \\"you're savages, millions of your children are dying needlessly; here's what you need to do: adopt our Constitution, adopt capitalism, and invite our army or an army in to kill those who oppose these civilizing reforms.\\" But, liberalism is the spirit of our times; it hates the Constitution, capitalism, and the army; so millions of innocent babies continue to die slow deaths in their mother's arms. \\"Treason\\" is a brilliant and revolutionary start. Let's pray there is much more to come. In the mean time there is \\"The War on The Poor\\" and the classic \\"Understanding the Difference Between Democrats and Republicans\\"	2003-07-17
US	51382084	R2ZYWP3BJCV1MW	0465001769	492085239	What Liberal Media?: The Truth About Bias and the News	Books	5	7	21	N	N	1001 examples of conservative bias but so what???	This is a good book, although titled in a very misleading way. An extremely descriptive title would be: 1001 examples of conservative bias in the media. The overwhelming and deadly problem here is that there is no attempt whatsoever to demonstrate that someone else can't write a book titled 2001 or 3001 or 4001 examples of liberal bias in the news. Accordingly you are then left with no basis whatsoever to know if the the media is more biasd toward liberals or conservatives.       Probably the best way to demonstrate what seems painfully perspicuous to conservative Republicans is to merely look at the results. Conservative Republicans stand for, most noticeably and obviously, smaller gov't; yet the gov't has steadily grown and grown until the last Federal Budget now totals a whopping $2.2 trillion. In fact, liberals have gotten 10 times more, in programs and inflation adjusted dollars, than the American Socialist Party ever dreamed of in the 1920's, and still there is absolutely no end in sight to this relentless addiction. Everything voters know and believe comes from and through the media, so how could anyone with even half a brain argue that there is a fairness or conservative bias in the media when the govt becomes more and more liberal with each election cycle? There is an obvious liberal bias!   Some, though, might argue that the news media is fair but that people vote liberal because of what they learn in schools and/or colleges, which, in reality, are just another form of media. Again, it is painfully obvious that the secondary schools are gov't funded schools controlled by gov't teachers' unions that almost exclusively support liberals, while conservative Republicans want to eliminate the liberal gov't schools in favor of voucher supported private schools and, ultimately, purely private schools. College professors present a similar bias. Surveys show that they (as well as major news media personal) are about 93% liberal Democrats. I'm not aware of anyone whoseriously disputes this. So, is the media biased? The answer is an obvious \\"yes,\\" although the amount of media bias that comes from each media category, i.e., secondary schools, colleges and universities, and major news sources (primarily TV, Radio, and Newspapers) is not known or knowable.    And, all of this is to say nothing of the broader cultural media(TV, Film,Theater) which are visibly biased toward liberalism to even the blind. There, we are conditioned from early childhood to accept the liberal bias. In fact, it is even more impossible to get a job in the arts as a Republican than it is in academia. TV, film, and theater is now almost exclusively in the hands of the left.    The media bias and concomitant liberal drift of the country is so widespread that ultimately you have to blame it not on the media but,sadly,on human ignorance. For example, the liberal position is that if you are for prescription drug coverage for the aged you are kind, sensitive, and caring, and if you are against it, as most conservatives are, you are mean and nasty or worse. The meretricious liberal position is easily understood by even a child, while the Republican position is far more complex even for most educated adults. In the arts, the left tells us that Murphy Brown is equal and perhaps superior to Ward and June Cleaver at parenting. Again, even a child can merely accept the very beautiful,charasmatic,liberal and husbandless Murphy Brown as a loving single parent, but it takes a conservative nuanced intellectual judgment to come to a conclusion about what familial structure is actually best and ought to be encouraged. The left always wins based on the simplicity and childlike appeal of their positions. The war in Iraq: give peace a chance; from the conservative right: a very brutal sacrifice now will probably result in significant gains over the long run.   The book ends, truthfully and sadly I think, mostly blaming us for being too dumb to buy sophisticated news analysis. My advice is to skip this pointless book and read one that will make you a sophisticated consumer of news, and will enable you to always spot the bias, rather than be manipulated by it. I highly recommend the classic \\"Understanding The Difference Between Democrats and Republicans,\\" It is the subject that Mr. Alterman meant to write about. Instead he chose to bury us under an utterly meaningless list of conservative bias as if to trick us into forgeting the far bigger list of liberal bias.(comments:bje1000@aol.com)	2003-03-30
US	51382084	R9OY74L2MWMB0	0060520841	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	1	5	18	N	N	Dan Rather is like a Mafia Don???	This is a very very astonishing book indeed. You really cannot ask for better proof that the major media (ABC, CBS, NBC) is liberally biased than what you find in this book. When a senior correspondent with 28 years of experience who is himself liberal, claims that his organization, and the others like it, are liberally biased you simply have to believe him. And certainly after 250 pages of relentless evidence you do. You are only left to imagine how different history would be today had it not been for media bias.<br />  Almost as astonishing is the personal and intellectual attack on Dan Rather, Tom Brokaw, and Peter Jennings. The author asserts very persuasively with much evidence that the three leading anchors are so ignorant and parochial in their understanding of government that they really don't know liberalism and conservatives well enough to understand what they are reporting. They are liberal not out of intellectual conviction but simply because everyone around them is, just as everyone in North Korea worships Kim Jung Il because everyone around them does. People who we think of as the most sophisticated and the most trusted among us are portrayed as simple fools. All this becomes sadly and abundantly clear as you listen to the anchors vehemently deny and then blatantly try to cover up their almost treasonous abuse of power. Dan Rather is directly and openly compared to a mafia Don in his thinking and tactics; only in this case the consequences are far more serious.<br />  Some will argue that the liberal bias of the networks and virtually all of Hollywood is balanced by the conservative bias of talk radio and cable TV.  This, it is pointed out, is not true because cable and talk radio point out that they are conservative when they are, while the major media presents liberalism as obvious truth. Also, much of the audience for cable and radio are conservatives already who are merely enjoying a sermon from their preacher, while the network TV audience and Hollywood audience is a general audience of undecided swing voters who have been deciding elections based in large part on their mistaken trust in the major media. One can only wonder at how different the world might be if Dan Rather had bothered to read the classic \\"Understanding the Difference Between Democrats and Republicans\\" when he was in school.lywood audience is a general audience of undecided swing voters who have been deciding elections based in large part on their mistaken trust in the major media. One can only wonder at how different the world might be if Dan Rather had bothered to read the classic \\"Understanding the Difference Between Democrats and Republicans\\" when he was in school.	2003-03-13
US	51382084	R3DSP42FR05I81	0813368103	707169	License To Steal: How Fraud bleeds America's Health Care System	Books	1	8	26	N	N	No real point at all!	This book did not really need to be written. It is written by a fraud investigator and is about nothing but specific fraud in Medicare, but we already knew there was tremendous Fraud. If you didn't know that billions are stolen in every conceivable way you do now, and don't need to read the book.<br />  Yes, the gov't sends out $250 billion each year for healthcare related goods and services while somewhere between 5-50% is pure fraud, but what do we do? If you want a Fraud investigators answer: simply improve the software to spot anomalous patterns like one patient with 20 primary care providers in one month. If you want to know one new thing that has not been suggested and tried a million times before you will not find it here.<br />  Creative and brilliant ideas such as medical savings accounts where each American deposits his own tax dollars his own medical savings account and is thereby given the maximum incentive to spend wisely are not considered. What is considered exclusively is fine tuning the likes of which have been tried and tried for the last 45 years.	2003-03-12
US	51382084	R22YFMN9HQ7C95	0060516054	433958284	What Went Wrong?: The Clash Between Islam and Modernity in the Middle East	Books	2	8	22	N	N	I still don't know what went wrong?	160 pages of dates and details written before 9/11 of very little value regarding 9/11 or Islam. It might better be titled: how to make money from 9/11. Apparently an enterprising literary agent thought it would be a good idea to get a well regarded Princeton historian on the Middle East to pull together some Middle East History 101 notes thick enough to pass as a book, title so as to imply that the reader will get critical conceptual insights about 9/11, Osama Bin Laden, and/or Islam, and then rush it to press while interest was still high. What you really get is: Columbus discovered America in 1492 etc etc. There is a less than exhaustive 6 page post 9/11 conclusion where the reader makes a last desperate attempt to seek some redemption for all his time and money by praying to finally learn something important about \\"what went wrong\\" or \\"what should be done\\" but all he gets is that Islam did not modernize and now the choice is theirs: to modernize or not. I'd stick to the NBC nightly news for about the same conceptual depth.	2003-02-23
US	51382084	R1M2LB0KB2YBG8	0312977018	597965684	Dr. Atkins' Age-Defying Diet: A Powerful New Dietary Defense Against Aging	Books	3	13	25	N	N	Diet: Where we are	The Diet Debate: Where We Are<br /> Recent studies indicate that Dr. Atkins may well be right that the protein diet is better than the carbohydrate diet for a long, disease free life. If this turns out to be true we will all owe him a tremendous debt, and he will legitimately come to be regarded as a heroic pioneer who took on the system and won. <BR> But, this book sadly does little to support his potential greatness in human medical history. His findings seem to arise chiefly from observing patients in his own medical practice. He asks you take his word, from decades of experience, that proteins are better than carbohydrates. This though would be a lot easier if he would present his observations in a scientific way; he does not do this at all. Instead, he merely asks us to accept the results he has observed, even as we know they are not the results observed by most doctors. Sensing the weakness of his pedagogic approach he often ventures beyond his medical practice to interpret, often in a very self serving way, scientific studies done by others. And, then to make matters worse he uses general observation from outside his practice and from outside scientific research to make conclusions that are certainly not always rational.<BR> For example, perhaps the main argument in the book is that in the year 1900, lard, tallow, and butter were the main fats consumed, and there were virtually no heart attacks in America then. Now that the health police have virtually banned these foods from our diet, heart disease in the number one killer; therefore, he would have us believe, lard, tallow and butter prevent heart disease. Of course this sadly ignores that in 1900 virtually all Americans worked long days doing physical labor and only lived to 52 years of age as opposed to 76 years today, and perhaps 1000 other variables that have changed in 100 years. It is truly an apples and oranges comparison of the very worst sort. <BR> Then, to add science to his conclusion about the heart benefits of butter, lard, and fat he sites the famed Framingham Heart Study by quoting the study director, Dr. Castelli, as saying that people with the lowest cholesterol (good for the heart in everyone's book) took in the most fat, cholesterol, and calories. A quick look on Dr.Castelli's web site reveals that a strictly vegetarian diet is literally his prescription for heart disease. He wants no meat at all while Atkins famously implores you to have \\"unlimited\\"(page 290) amounts? Dr. Castelli not only compiled the results from the Framingham study but also works closely with heart attack victims who he says benefit dramatically and immediately from a no meat vegetarian diet.<BR>   Sometimes Dr. Atkins seems to be pure snake oil salesman even when he's not selling the snake oil himself at his clinics. For example, he wants us to believe that merely taking Vitamin C will sharply reduce our risk of cancer. One would have to be a huge conspiracy theorist to believe such a simple preventative had been kept from us save for Dr. Atkin's sage counsel. At another point he says Vitamin E is as effective as selegiline against Alzheimer's disease. This may be true but it is saying next to nothing since selegiline and even its successor drug, Aricept, have only a barely noticeable effect on 5% of patients for 6 months and no effect at all on the overall course of the disease for anybody.   <BR><BR> Anyway, no lay person is going to figure out the truth even if the study data were presented directly, but still we can thank Dr. Atkins. for fighting hard enough and long enough and succeeding enough to, prayerfully, provoke a lot more research that may eventually lead to some definitive answers.<BR> In the mean time I'm going to occasionally enjoy meat and eggs(high in protein), and take advantage of what Atkins and most others seem agree on: a multi-vitamin/herb/mineral supplement and a few key vegetables and fruits, i.e., garlic, blueberries, blackberries, kale, and spinach.Fish oil seems extreme but you keep reading about it over and over again.	2003-02-20
US	51382084	R2EPRI0NUPNSTR	0679745114	544844729	Japan: A Reinterpretation	Books	1	9	25	N	N	What is individuality anyway ??	This book (Japan: A Reinterpretation) is another in what is apparently a long line of Japan bashing books. The book seems conceptually mistaken in an absolutely total way. You get the impression that a viscious attack on Japan was just seen as an angle with which to sell books. It seems obvious that if you are going to attack a country you have to compare it to another country so the results have some meaning or context. <BR>    The author's main conclusion (seemingly ethnocentric if not purely racist) seems to be that all Japanese problems stem from a lack of individuality. I suppose it is true that the Japanese are less individualistic than Americans. They do all act the same. When I recently got off a plane in Tokyo they all seemed to want to help me find my way to the train, subway and then my Hotel. In fact one man, who I will never forget, even decided to accompany me all the way just to make sure I arrived with a minimum of trouble. This happened several times throughout Japan over a 3 week period. If I pulled a map out in a subway station people would gather round in a sort of competition to help me. Very well dressed and sexy Japanese women would routinely dip into dark alleys to complete a cell phone call if the street noise was too loud or distracting. The Japanese are all the same. They are all nice people. Contrast this to the insane individuality in the US which produces hip hop culture, 4000 religions, and 2 million criminals in jail at a time. In Japan there are virtually no police, no guns, no jails and no criminals. <BR>    Yes, it is true that the Japanese were all very viscious in WW2 and that the group think zen/buddist/samauri mentality may make them somewhat susceptible to an evil group think mentality again. But, if you look at the huge declines in the US despite our vaunted freedoms and individuality you have to conclude we are as vulnerable to it as they. In the mean time you can walk around Japan with a warm feeling knowing the people areyour friends; in the US you can walk around not knowing what brand of individual is next to you. In Japan people won't stare at you because they respect your privacy, in the US people won't stare because they don't want to attract a criminal or unwanted advance. On the train into Tokyo you'll get help, on the train into NYC you'll get a question like I once got , \\"is it true you can get killed in there?\\"  To the author of: Japan: A Reinterpretation, this complexity is not recognized. Individuality is good and Japanese conformity is bad. Accordingly the book has very little meaning.	2003-01-20
US	51382084	RN2V4SWZZ1A2J	0809039435	504768367	Dogs and Demons: Tales from the Dark Side of Japan	Books	1	23	56	N	N	Totally Subjective	This book attacking Japan seems conceptually mistaken in an absolutely total way. You get the impression that a viscous attack on Japan was just seen as an angle with which to sell books. It seems to me that if you are going to attack a country you have to compare it to another country so the results have some meaning or context. For example, the author tries to detail how the hugely complex Japanese economy is a total mess, when in reality it is the second largest in the world, and when it was total rubble just 50 years ago. In fact what they have achieved in 50 years may be one of mankind's greatest economic miracles. <BR> The author devotes a lot of time to the environment but with no objective comparison whatsoever. We hear the same criticism from environmentalists in the US too. The governor of NJ just told us how threatening pollution and urban sprawl are in his State of The State message. In Japan the population density is 14 times what it is here so one has to expect that it is very fertile ground indeed for environmentalist chatter boxes. However, crime and mental illness are lower and life expectancy is higher in Japan than the US so how bad can it really be in Japan?<BR> Any opportunity to nit pick Japan is exploited no matter how silly or wrong. He makes a big point about the Japan Red Cross diverting money as being symbolic of the way things work there. He didn't mention how the American Red Cross did the same thing here after 9/11. With absolutely insane arrogance he points out how Japanese Semi-conductor stocks were way down and as such a certain symbol of the mire in Japanese modern technology. It never occurred to him that the much heralded US companies would soon follow into the same huge slump. The book goes on and on never leaving you with a concrete or rational criticism of Japan.<BR> At one point the author says the gov't wasted trillions and trillions on public works projects. Well, what gov't doesn't waste trillions? Cuba and the USSR wastedmoney until everyone was dirt poor. The US spent trillions on Welfare, for example, over 40 years, and then decided it was all a waste too. Where Japan fits in terms of the scale of its gov't waste is way beyond this book which doesn't even seem to realize the complexity of the issues it raises.	2003-01-20
US	51382084	RY70OXQ7NB7V	0679724699	534383312	The History of Sexuality, Vol. 1: An Introduction	Books	1	36	101	N	N	Oh boy, a french intellectual!	I have to confess that I just could not finish this book. At  page 118 (of a 160 page book) I hadn't learned a thing,. It was time to recognize that quitting was preferable to wasting even more time. As history the book is poor in that it is not specific. References are made to Greece, the 18th Century, or \\"at least since the Middle Ages\\" but, strictly speaking, the vague and general concepts in the book are not related to any particular time or place in history. The author is not a historian, rather he is more of a pompous intellectual philosopher given to odd word forms, complex sentence construction, and extremely obtuse conceptual ways to say simple things. And, even with all that padding he only manages to squeeze out 160 small pages in which he seems to say little more than that sex was repressed throughout history until recently when all the repression forced a degree sexual preoccupation and scrutiny that is way out of proportion. He closes with, \\"the irony of this deployment (repression to scrutiny) is in us having to believe that our \\"liberation\\" is in the balance. What he means is that our liberation is not in the balance but that we think it is merely out of an artificially inflated desire to escape centuries of sexual repression. Does he really think that we won't care so much about sex now that he has explained the \\"deployment\\" of sex throughout history or was he just desperate for a conceptual conclusion to a phony history book, that simultaneously fails as meaningful sociology or psychology?<BR>     I suggest \\"The 91% Factor,\\" Why Women Initiate 91% of Divorce. It is clear, simple, logically consistent, about the most important aspect of sex, and was not written by a \\"French\\" intellectual more taken with his use of language than the quality of his thought.	2003-01-20
US	51382084	R1R9UZF5UL4BMR	0066620996	205785288	Good to Great: Why Some Companies Make the Leap and Others Don't	Books	1	34	61	N	N	The 10,000th management guru ?	This is another in a long line of  overly simplistic books which purport to identify what all management books purport to identify, namely, what is great management? The conceptual errors here legion:<BR>    Firstly, if such a thing could be put in a little book all companies would be great. <BR>    Secondly, the author starts by singling out and dealing only with the magic 11 fortune 500 companies his huge staff could identify based on earnings growth over the last 15 years, but \\"best\\" really has no meaning in this context. For example, he starts with fortune 500 companies which automatically means they are all the best to begin with given they are the largest companies to have survived among the millions that come and go each year. Don't all fortune 500 companies have tremendous growth of some kind oven some 15 year period in their history? <BR>     Who can say that the magic 11 have great management and GM does not even though GM is huge compared to any of the magic 11? Did Mr. Collins do an experiment to prove his thesis? Without access to the earning numbers can he identify a great company from the million of choices? This guy should be making his money in the stock market rather than by selling books.<BR>     GM is a mature company in a mature market with moddest earning growth, but are they better or worse managers than Microsoft which has enjoyed tremendous earning growth largely because they got into a business they didn't even want (operating systems) that fortunately provided a base on which huge earnings grew. In fact it is a business school axiom that the companies who are the most successful lose to their own arrogance in the end. This is how IBM missed small computers and how GE & RCA missed big computers. <BR>     The team's findings about the importance of good leadership, of choosing the right people, of staying focused on a simple message seems laughable. Had the previous wisdom been that bad leadership was the path the higher earnings?  <br />The author talks about making a commitment, and having passion toward what you are doing in the context of describing how Kimberly Clark turned heroically away from some of its businesses toward what they were passionate about: Kleenex. It clearly seemed that the author could not understand that real passion does not exist toward Kleenex or that you could not attract and motivate talent if you required a passion for Kleenex. Money, prestige, and competence are more likely to motivate managers.<BR>   The research team's findings about the importance of good leadership, of choosing the right people, of staying focused on a simple message seem even worse as the author feebly tries to explain Walgreen's success versus Eckerts, CVS Rite Aid, and the 100s of others that have tried to put simple cookie cutter drug stores on every corner. Didn't the also-rans see what Walgreen was doing? Didn't they hire Walgreen Management, didn't they copy them, and try harder and harder as they desperately sank to 2nd and 3rd and then into bankruptcy? Figuring out why Walgreen won may be a little like figuring why the Beatles won? Perhaps because Paul was so cute, and Walgreens name, logo, colors, and ads were just a tiny bit cuter than the competition. We don't know and never will.<BR>   Circuit City is one of the Magic 11. But, its stock is off 66% so far this year. Who wants to bet it will be included in the next management guru book? IBM, Xerox, and Polaroid were all hailed has having great long term management but they all died (well, almost) because they happened on great products, not great managements. While their products were great, book entrepreneurs made a fortune talking about their managements.	2002-08-05
US	51382084	RESF47MY16XBG	0801487188	439147165	Rethinking Rape	Books	2	3	43	N	N	Thinking about rape or doing something?	Rethinking Rape by Ann Cahill is truly truly absurd. At best it is a horrendously poor work of philosophy. Ms. Cahill is a professor of philosophy who is a feminist too. Philosophy is about truth while feminism is pure advocacy regardless of truth; so the two don't often make for an easy combination. In this case we are spared that contradiction because the philosophy and advocacy are both too trivial to be concerned with but you, the reader, are then left with virtually nothing. If you, like Bill Clinton, are made weak in the knees and quizzical about what the meaning of \\"is\\" is, then this book might hold some appeal. Or, if you want to know, not how to prevent rape, but whether it is merely an act of common violence or the natural extension of the erotization of masculine dominance, then this book might hold some interest too.<BR>    More importantly though this book is an insult to women who have been raped and those who will be, and their loved ones.  When it comes to rape perhaps the most relevant question is not how to think and philosophize about it but, for God's sake, how to prevent it. In the last 5 pages of the book Ms. Cahill finally at long long last comes up with her answer: karate! Never mind that this idea has been practiced, promoted, sold, advertised and tried off and on for 100 years by feminists and black belt entrepreneurs alike. If ever their was an argument about the triviality of philosophy in particular areas of learning this book is surely it.  <BR>    Queerly missing in an absolute and total way is a recognition that crime is related to punishment. If there was no punishment against bank robbery starting tomorrow, the banking system would collapse starting tomorrow. If there was no punishment for rape the changes would be equally profound. But, suppose you increased the penalties against rape or even made it a death penalty offense on the second DNA conviction? Given that rape is a highly unique crime, education about the death penalty forit would spread very quickly. <BR>     Cahill does manage, despite herself, to point out that rape is profound. It makes women: refuse eye contact, not go out at night,  live in fear, cross their legs in public, be afraid even to think freely, to be victims long before they are victimized, blame themselves when what they fear will happen (thus preventable) actually does happen, be picked as mates rather than pick the mate they want, and fail to realize much of their potential as human beings (the book: \\"The 91% Factor\\" covers this topic in a brilliant and accessible way) I don't doubt that rape is that profound, which begs the truly philosophic question: why don't feminists and philosophers and civilized people in general do anything to increase the penalty for rape and thus eliminate it?. Ms Cahill would surely like to eliminate or greatly reduce rape but oddly she seems unable to propose it?	2002-03-12
US	51382084	R25KDZCJYODM6L	026205065X	883073626	The Elusive Quest for Growth : Economists' Adventures and Misadventures in the Tropics	Books	1	5	78	N	N	Welfare doesn't work!	The Elusive Quest For Growth is a painfully obvious book to a Republican. It is written by a courageous International Monetary Fund/World Bank insider Ph.D. economist who rebelliously and whistle blowingly speaks the truth, i.e., the billions and billions loaned(given) to desperately poor countries all over the world has been totally wasted. It seems so obvious. When you  give people/countries money as the IMF/WB does, they waste it. When they have to earn it, they don't waste it and real economic growth begins. But to Democrats, Socialists, and Communists there is always the heartfelt and oh so sensitive belief that central gov't brainiacs can quickly create just the right loan or program at just the right time and in just the right way so everyone will soon grow rich and civilized and live happily ever after. It has never worked  but apparently because Democrats are just too silly to understand Capitalism they keep trying and trying and trying the only thing they can imagine, but at the cost of millions and millions of lives. <BR>     American AFDC(welfare) didn't work and for the same reasons neither does the IMF/WB and all the other ... versions of big gov't that the Democrats love so much. The intellectual complexity of capitalism is too great for too many people and so, even in the 21 Century, the Democrats keep finding new allies and new votes and new programs destined to fail. <BR>    Interestingly, while the author clearly is stating life saving Republican principles he never says he is a Republican or even a capitalist. Such labeling is clearly avoided by almost every human being on earth. It would be an indication of partisanship and partisans have a cause, a point of view, or ax to grind, and hence cannot be trusted to tell the plain truth. So, oddly, we pretend to be neutral or intellectual. We want to imply, \\"oh, I  just happened on the truth; it never even occurred to me that my recent scientific discoveries exactly support what the Republicans have been saying since Thomas Jefferson. This sad hypocrisy creates a very huge problem: if you establish the truth but don't say it is the Republican truth how on earth will voters connect it to the Republican Party and vote accordingly?<BR>    So, I give this book 5 stars for telling the truth and no stars for not stating that it is the Republican truth. For a book not afraid to establish the truth about the entire range of Republican positions I recommend \\"Understanding The Difference Between Democrats and Republicans.\\"	2002-01-21
US	51382084	R2X0ZTYLR2J9PY	026205065X	883073626	The Elusive Quest for Growth : Economists' Adventures and Misadventures in the Tropics	Books	3	2	57	N	N	The war on the poor	The Elusive Quest For Growth is a painfully obvious book to a Republican. It is written by a courageous International Monetary Fund/World Bank insider Ph.D. economist who rebelliously and whistle blowingly speaks the truth, i.e., the billions and billions loaned(given) to desperately poor countries all over the world has been totally wasted. It seems so obvious. When you  give people/countries money as the IMF/WB does, they waste it. When they have to earn it, they don't waste it and real economic growth begins. But to Democrats, Socialists, and Communists there is always the heartfelt and oh so sensitive belief that central gov't brainiacs can quickly create just the right loan or program at just the right time and in just the right way and everyone will soon grow rich and civilized and live happily ever after. Its has never worked  but apparently because Democrats are just too silly to understand Capitalism they keep trying and trying and trying the only thing they can imagine, but at the cost of millions and millions of lives. <BR>     American AFDC(welfare) didn't work and for the same reasons neither does the IMF/WB and all the other pathetic versions of big gov't that the Democrats love so much. The intellectual complexity of capitalism is too much for too many people and so, even in the 21 Century, the Democrats keep finding new allies and new votes and new programs. <BR>    Interestingly, while the author clearly is stating life saving Republican principles he never says he is a Republican or even a capitalist. Such labeling is clearly avoided by almost every human being earth. It would be an indication of partisanship and partisans have a cause, a point of view, or ax to grind, and hence cannot be trusted to tell the plain truth. So, oddly, we pretend to be neutral or intellectual. We want to imply, &quot;oh, I  just happened on the truth; it never even occurred to me that my recent scientific discoveries exactly support what the Republicans have been saying since Thomas Jefferson. This sad hypocrisy creates a very huge problem: if you establish the truth but don't say it is the Republican truth how on earth will voters connect it to the Republican Party and vote accordingly?<BR>    So, I give this book 5 stars for telling the truth and no stars for not stating that it is the Republican truth. For a book not afraid to establish the truth about the entire range of Republican positions I recommend &quot;Understanding The Difference Between Democrats and Republicans.&quot;	2002-01-17
US	51382084	R277TSLZAP0NE1	0743205626	833686522	Maestro: Greenspan's Fed and the American Boom (Greenspan, Alan)	Books	2	6	10	N	N	We thought we knew what money was	This is a book which seeks to capitalize on the superstardom of Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan. When the book came out Greenspan was the economic hero and genius who, seemingly, presided over, or even engineered the greatest economic expansion is human history. Hence, a book about his day to day trials and tribulations seemed like a natural bestseller.        But, sadly, the book completely misses the key and critical facts about the supremely important Federal reserve system. So what is the point in reading it? Instead it is devoted to a minute by minute partial description of Greenspan's daily job related concerns while completely missing the larger context of the hugely important and controversial Federal Reserve.       Greesnspan's work life is portrayed as a tense nail biting quest to divine the level of economic activity, so he can either increase or inflate the money supply to stimulate sluggish economic activity or to decrease or deflate the money supply to slow down too rapid economic activity. All of this goes on under intense pressure from politicians who generally pressure him to make more money regardless in the future inflation it will cause so the economy will look vigorous and healthy while they are in office or about to run for reelection.      Some absolutely essential  truths that are ignored are as follows:   1) Federal banks have been the scourge of civilization (even to the point of leading to Nazi Germany) because they generally have printed money for themselves in order to steal it, or in the false belief that printing money for general distribution would  make average people more wealthy and help an economy grow. In truth, printing money just drives up prices (inflation) but as no long term effect on economic activity, wealth, or output.     2) Greenspan is an ardent Republican who therefore accepts the idea that merely printing money is senseless and destructive. In fact he has been so scared of Federal banks falling into Democratic hands that he has supported eliminating them in favor of a gold standard because, then, corrupt or stupid gov't officials couldn't make more gold. This is perhaps the single most important step any country can take to free itself from corrupt or stupid gov't.     3) Democrats don't accept basic truths about money. They like to print it because: a)  it is easier to get it that way, rather than through oppressive taxation, and b) they are so addicted to gov't power they can't resist the notion of printing money and stealing it or printing it and spending it on their subjects in a totally false act of gov't largess.      For a specific education about these issues in purely economic terms the master is Nobel Laureate Milton Friedman. For a specific look at how Democrats and Republicans divide on most issues (including money), despite the media's attempts to cover the differences up, I recommend the classic, Understanding The Difference Between Democrats And Republicans.	2002-01-09
US	51382084	R29QESBYN9YQDF	0465030327	237103339	Letters to a Young Contrarian (Art of Mentoring)	Books	5	12	24	N	N	Christopher Hitchens describes his principles	&quot;Letters To A Contrarian&quot; is really a book of letter Hitchins writes to himself about, primarily, how to maintain his radical values. It is really a book about who Christopher is. His books are perhaps the most interesting and original books (who else would vilify Mother Theresa and Henry Kissinger?) written on current history and politics; yet the most irrelevant too.  Hitchens is extremely bright (even in an extremely bright profession) , controversial, radical, iconoclastic, educated, experienced, and still astonishingly irrelevant. One time he is taking on Mother Teresa, then appearing as a leftist on C-SPAN against his conservative British brother, then he turns up on Charlie Rose saying he is a libertarian, then he writes regularly for The Nation (while preferring globalization), and finally he applauds an article in the National Review or the Weekly Standard. This latest book is the most scattered of all amounting to little more than a general pep talk about how to keep up your radical credentials (don't follow the crowd, etc.), or, how to be Christopher Hitchens.  Being so independent, cool, intellectual, and affected (unshaven, trench coat, chain smoking, intellectual verbal cadence) may be good for ones' image and career but how does it really help the reader who time and again is given only the choice of voting for a Democrat or Republican?  <BR>     In the beginning there was Thomas Jefferson arguing for freedom and Alexander Hamilton arguing for Government. Today the Democrats and Republicans are still arguing about the same issue, while Mr. Hitchens is oddly arguing about something else not even defined, let alone on the ballot? Why doesn't he write a book on why Trent Lott and Sam Daschel have split the United States gov't along stupid or irrelevant lines? Why doesn't he address the issue every American faces every time he enters a voting booth? In truth, the more relevant and central an issue is to World History the more Mr. Hitchens staysaway from it. So, if you want to be a proud but harmless radical, read this book. But, please consider that when you are done, like Marlon Brando in &quot;The Wild Ones&quot; you'll still have to figure out what it is that you want to be radical about, if that should matter to you at all. The scattershot Hitchins/Brando approach is just not relevant to the choice voters face. The non-intellectual mass media keeps America divided and in the middle because that is how the they make the most money and find the biggest audience while the very intellectual Christopher Hitchens does the same thing because that is how he too makes the most money. Or, perhaps in an existential world &quot;cool and independent&quot; has a value all by itself? But, if you want to read a book that seeks to be relevant as much as this book seeks to avoid relevancy try &quot;Understanding The Difference Between Democrats And Republicans&quot;	2001-12-04
US	51382084	R1SO2IP6BHWJ3P	0465030327	237103339	Letters to a Young Contrarian (Art of Mentoring)	Books	2	31	59	N	N	It's so cool to be Contrarian	This book, and all of Christopher Hitchens' books for that matter, are perhaps the most irrelevant and yet most interesting books written on current history. Yes, Hitchens is extremely bright (even in an extremely bright profession) , controversial, radical, iconoclastic, informed, experienced, and still very very irrelevant. One time he is taking on Mother Teresa, then appearing as a huge liberal on C-SPAN against his conservative British brother, then he turns up on Charlie Rose saying he is a libertarian, then he writes regularly for The Nation (while preferring globalization), and finally he applauds an article in National Review or the Weekly Standard. This latest book is the most scattered of all amounting to little more than a general pep talk about how to keep up your radical credentials, or, how to be Christopher Hitchens. Being so cool and intellectual and affected may be good for ones' career but how does it really help the reader who time and again is given only the choice of voting for a Democrat or Republican?  <BR>    In the beginning there was Thomas Jefferson arguing for freedom and Alexander Hamilton arguing for Government. Today the Democrats and Republicans are arguing about the same issue, while Mr. Hitchens is oddly arguing about something else not even defined, let alone on the ballot? Why doesn't he write a book on why Trent Lott and Sam Daschel have spit the United States gov't along stupid or irrelevant lines? In truth, the more relevant and central an issue is to World history the more Mr. Hitchens stays away from it. So, if you want to be a proud but harmless radical, read this book. But, please consider that when you are done, like Marlon Brando in &quot;The Wild Ones&quot; you'll still have to figure out what it is that you want to be radical about, if that should matter to you at all. Perhaps in an existential world &quot;cool&quot; has a value all by itself? If you want to read a book that seeks to be relevant as much as this book seeks to avoid it try &quot;Understanding The Difference Between Democrats And Republicans&quot;	2001-11-29
US	51382084	RS0ZNYOVC98I7	1568581939	503016189	Here Comes the Bride: Women, Weddings, and the Marriage Mystique	Books	4	1	14	N	N	A modern view of marriage?	&quot;Here Comes The Bride&quot; is a simple male bashing marriage bashing nonsensical radical feminist tract. With her marriage, super feminist icon Gloria Steinem apparently has retracted her famous statement about women needing marriage the way a fish needs a bicycle, but 30 years later &quot;Here Comes The Bride&quot; reminds us of Steinem's tragic legacy which, most notably, liberated women from their husbands and children so they might be free at last, free at last, .....to find meaning at the factory making widgets. By many estimates sexual abuse of little girls rose 3000% (to pick one consequence) during the Steinem era as mothers sought a higher widget consciousness and lower love their children consciousness.<BR>    All this is lost on Geller (author of Here Comes The Bride). After all, a revolution is heroic, exciting, and fun, if nothing else. Her thesis is; I kid you not, that despite 30 years of modern feminism and the other waves of historical feminism that periodically swept civilization and non civilization, marriage still is so heavily and positively mythologized that modern women are rendered helpless; brainwashed into dreaming of their own romantic weddings and life long love, mysteriously forced to buy all those copies of Brides Magazine, that marriage disadvantages women who.... just aren't smart enough to get it, and that marriage might better be replaced by a ceremony wherein women get a big welfare payment at age 25 so she can afford to set up a household without having to love and share  with a man. Perhaps she thinks not being able to share with a man is a good sign that a woman can share with the child she might have? Or maybe she thinks that, overall, civilization is advanced if men don't know or love their children and if children don't know or love their fathers? Actually we tried this welfare scheme with black families beginning on a large scale in the 1960s, and exactly at that time illegitimacy shot up to near 80%(a bad thing in pre-feminist times), and most young black man went to jail having been ingeniously freed from the genetic role for which they were bred over 100,000 years. Finally, Geller's sociologically skill reaches a crescendo when she obliviously suggests that if something like a marriage is truly necessary women can help civilization transition away from it in a liberal, California, spiritual, avant guard, new age, Yoga type ceremony wherein the woman commits to 5 people; not just one controlling, myth making, male chauvinist pig/jerk. In this way the father who is genetically obligated to die for his children is minimized, and the kids are subject to a higher probability of sexual abuse and less formal education (just for starters), but, in compensation there are 4 other people with a vague social obligation to pitch in and help with the children. She does not mention what the divorce laws might look like in such a bizarre situation or how someone with their own biological children might allocate time and resources to non-biological children, or by what process this parental committee might make decisions regarding the children's welfare. Moreover, MS Geller lends too much credence to the idea that male bashing, marriage bashing feminists are frigid. Sex is as natural and essential as seeing and eating and what better place is there to have sex than in marriage. Even ignoring the diseases which are transmitted by promiscuous feminist sex, do we really want to teach men and women the anti-marriage mythology that sex and love are joyously disposable? Do you want a mother, friend, neighbor, employee, policeman, soldier, or President who has been socialized to believe that the sweetest, most profound, tender and important feelings of love, respect, loyalty, and connection that a human being can feel for other human being are disposable? <BR>     Perhaps Geller's single biggest conceptual problem is that she ignores the basic biological foundation that makes humans the most phenomenally successful miracle in the history of the known universe. Over millions of years; following nothing but our basic biology, we evolved from amebas to 21st Century humans. Liberal social engineering of love and family, by a woman who seemingly knows nothing about it personally or intellectually, without the tiniest respect for the million year old biological foundation on which humankind evolved, reminds us far more of Chairman Mao's ego maniacal great leap forward than serious scholarship or the musings of a civilized author from a loving home.<BR>    MS Geller is an NYC liberal intellectual with all the appropriate pomposity of language and attitude and as such she is scary in a way the popular, beautiful, and breezy Ms. Steinem (although ultimately tragic) was not. But, to see such an obvious intellectual (MS Geller) stumble so badly that any 10 grade biology student can feel confident around her arguments makes clear how truly impossible her theme is. For the reader who wants to read the exact opposite of &quot;Here Comes The Bride&quot; try the classic &quot;The 91% Factor&quot; which maturely and successfully integrates millions of years of biology, and modern culture while promoting, with considerable intellectual support, the commonsensical notion that love between husband, wife, and children is the most sacred part of our biology, and the culture and civilization which must flow from it.	2001-09-11
US	51382084	R3FKAC8KNF8O1S	1568581939	503016189	Here Comes the Bride: Women, Weddings, and the Marriage Mystique	Books	5	3	13	N	N	Non-Family Values	&quot;Here Comes The Bride&quot; is a simple male bashing marriage bashing nonsensical radical feminist tract. With her marriage, super feminist icon Gloria Steinem apparently has retracted her famous statement about women needing marriage the way a fish needs a bicycle, but 30 years later &quot;Here Comes The Bride&quot; reminds us of Steinem's tragic legacy which, most notably, liberated women from their husbands and children so they might be free at last, free at last, .....to find meaning at the factory making widgets. By many estimates sexual abuse of little girls rose 3000% (to pick one consequence) during the Steinem era as mothers sought a higher widget consciousness and lower love their children consciousness.<BR>    All this is lost on Geller (author of Here Comes The Bride). After all, a revolution is heroic, exciting, and fun, if nothing else. Her thesis is; I kid you not, that despite 30 years of modern feminism and the other waves of historical feminism that periodically swept civilization and non civilization, marriage still is so heavily and positively mythologized that modern women are rendered helpless; brainwashed into dreaming of their own romantic weddings and life long love, mysteriously forced to buy all those copies of Brides Magazine, that marriage disadvantages women who.... just aren't smart enough to get it, and that marriage might better be replaced by a ceremony wherein women get a big welfare payment at age 25 so she can afford to set up a household without having to love and share  with a man. Perhaps she thinks not being able to share with a man is a good sign that a woman can share with the child she might have? Or maybe she thinks that, overall, civilization is advanced if men don't know or love their children and if children don't know or love their fathers? Actually we tried this welfare scheme with black families beginning on a large scale in the 1960s, and exactly at that time illegitimacy shot up to near 80%(a bad thing in pre-feminist times), and most young black man went to jail having been ingeniously freed from the genetic role for which they were bred over 100,000 years. Finally, Geller's sociologically skill reaches a crescendo when she obliviously suggests that if something like a marriage is truly necessary women can help civilization transition away from it in a liberal, California, spiritual, avant guard, new age, Yoga type ceremony wherein the woman commits to 5 people; not just one controlling, myth making, male chauvinist pig/jerk. In this way the father who is genetically obligated to die for his children is minimized, and the kids are subject to a higher probability of sexual abuse and less formal education (just for starters), but, in compensation there are 4 other people with a vague social obligation to pitch in and help with the children. She does not mention what the divorce laws might look like in such a bizarre situation or how someone with their own biological children might allocate time and resources to non-biological children, or by what process this parental committee might make decisions regarding the children's welfare. Moreover, MS Geller lends too much credence to the idea that male bashing, marriage bashing feminists are frigid. Sex is as natural and essential as seeing and eating and what better place is there to have sex than in marriage. Even ignoring the diseases which are transmitted by promiscuous feminist sex, do we really want to teach men and women the anti-marriage mythology that sex and love are joyously disposable? Do you want a mother, friend, neighbor, employee, policeman, soldier, or President who has been socialized to believe that the sweetest, most profound, tender and important feelings of love, respect, loyalty, and connection that a human being can feel for other human being are disposable? <BR>     Perhaps Geller's single biggest conceptual problem is that she ignores the basic biological foundation that makes humans the most phenomenally successful miracle in the history of the known universe. Over millions of years; following nothing but our basic biology, we evolved from amebas to 21st Century humans. Liberal social engineering of love and family, by a woman who seemingly knows nothing about it personally or intellectually, without the tiniest respect for the million year old biological foundation on which humankind evolved, reminds us far more of Chairman Mao's ego maniacal great leap forward than serious scholarship or the musings of a civilized author from a loving home.<BR>    MS Geller is an NYC liberal intellectual with all the appropriate pomposity of language and attitude and as such she is scary in a way the popular, beautiful, and breezy Ms. Steinem (although ultimately tragic) was not. But, to see such an obvious intellectual (MS Geller) stumble so badly that any 10 grade biology student can feel confident around her arguments makes clear how truly impossible her theme is. For the reader who wants to read the exact opposite of &quot;Here Comes The Bride&quot; try the classic &quot;The 91% Factor&quot; which maturely and successfully integrates millions of years of biology, and modern culture while promoting, with considerable intellectual support, the commonsensical notion that love between husband, wife, and children is the most sacred part of our biology, and the culture and civilization which must flow from it. &gt;&gt;<BR>  &gt;&gt;	2001-09-04
US	51382084	R2M86AFV0GUNHZ	0786862181	452570984	Surrendering to Marriage: Husbands, Wives, and Other Imperfections	Books	3	4	5	N	N	oh so dreary!	This is not so much an intellectual or academic work but much more of a pro marriage pep talk, which I suppose is something we should all applaud given that children are so much worse off when from broken homes. The author is a journalist whose last book was about motherhood; she has no training or experience or long term interest in relationships it would seem. Rather she is a journalist with a formula. The book was something as she says \\"her editor begged her to do.\\" They try to make the best of it by claiming it is from a real person and from the front lines of real marital battles. Essentially the book says that if you ultimately value family and want a family for yourself and your kids you must be prepared to forgive everything from the proverbial mismanaged toothpaste tube all the way to adultery, and ignore that for long periods of time you probably won't feel much love for your spouse.    On balance this is horrible and oh so dreary advice. But then again perhaps hearing \\"grin and bear it,\\" \\"till death do your part,\\" \\"for richer or poorer,\\" and, \\"through sickness and health,\\" is just good old fashioned advice that did and could again serve our children better than what has been proffered from our politically correct; officially recognized relationship gurus who mysteriously rose to fame and fortune precisely along with our divorce rate.      Nevertheless, humans are supposed to make progress over the generations. Isn't marriage, and true love possible? Books like Surrender to Marriage which say \\"grin and bear it\\" and the ubiquitous Mars/Venus books which say \\"let him go into his cave and watch football\\" are formulas for appeasement which mostly will encourage worse and worse behavior. Women, in particular, need to learn how to stand up for themselves and get the love they want in a marriage. After all, they fell in love in the first place precisely because they once did get what they wanted. Did you ever hear a woman say, \\"I fell in love with him because hewatched so much football?\\" Books like \\"The 91% Factor\\" are excellent step by step manuals to teach women  how to get the love they had, and not merely to settle for the relationship they mismanaged.	2001-08-21
US	51382084	RUPB2QBJIGRSF	0385492685	555691073	Breakup	Books	5	3	4	N	N	No Fault Torture !	Texier is pure relationship artist, which is sort of revolutionary in our age of self-help relationship psychology. She makes no attempt at psychology or explanation or analysis. Her book is just a searing and  powerful look at her agony and heroic battle to survive as she is betrayed  by her husband of 20 years.  A knife in the stomach from a stranger is one  sort of horror, but a long, slow, purposive, knife in the stomach from your  life's partner is something we don't even want to imagine, the author  persuasively assures us at great length and in various ways. In the age of  no fault divorce this book asks us to consider how no one can be at fault  for so much agony. How have we gotten to such a civilized point where  brutal agony inflicted by one family member against another is considered  normal and quite acceptable? Can a child be civilized if beaten regularly?  Can a spouse be civilized after such a similar betrayal? We seem to value  family yet easily allow the most horrible violence we can imagine within a  family, and with no obvious penalty, and often with feminist or  psychological approval. You merely find a criticism of your partner and  presto change you are in the value free no fault zone where a knife in the  stomach is.... simply not a knife in the stomach, but rather, 'following  your heart.' After all, a relationship is a two way street;a joint creation  for which both parties are equally responsible. But oddly, Texier herself  probably wouldn't want legal or social penalties to teach and encourage  long term love. She is undoubtedly a modern woman. Perhaps she herself, or  her daughters,  may one day need to escape a marriage to embrace the  inspiration of another. Or perhaps she feels that following your heart to  the inspiration of a new love is a better value than merely honoring a  commitment to an old love, and old children? Or perhaps there is something  civilized about a voluntary new love where two agree to live anew; in  loving harmony, rather than feel the boredom of something that is peaceful  and routine, and as such no longer feels like love. Whatever the truth  about love, at least through Texier's pain we are forced to consider the  feeling of love, which is more than 100 years of legislation, pop culture,  and modern psychology can claim. In the end though she is an artist, free  to paint a stunning inescapable picture and to force others to search for  its larger meaning.    It seems a wonder that such a book did not save  Texier's marriage. Who would not want to be loved by a woman who loved so  deeply and broadly? Most of us are limited to giving flowers, or saying 'I  love you' or to other routine Hallmark expressions of love. But Texier is a  fearless verbal artist who can simultaneously touch you with words and body  in a way that creates two complimentary erotic women for you to love, each  successfully daring the other to go farther and farther toward creating a  family and love that can never be equaled. But Texier, like most women,  never seemed to sense her sexual power.  Rather, she fatally gave herself,  over and over again, to her husband upon request until the very last moment  possible, and he, like most men, took more than he could ever appreciate. A  book called 'The 91% Factor' teaches women how to lovingly manage sexual  power. One has to believe that perhaps it explains the one tiny little flaw  in Texier's manner that prevented her from succeeding at that which we so  badly wanted her to succeed. Without such a belief where would even such a  heroic and loving figure as Ms. Texier get the fortitude to take such a  frightening risk again? We know this dear sweet woman must take the risk  again and we know that with her strength and talent she is not to be pitied  no matter what. She can survive, sure, but we want this woman who has  shared so much with us to have what she deserves and we even imagine we can  help her.	2000-03-18
US	51382084	RXBKV1LVGUMMM	006093137X	920633951	Turbo-Capitalism: Winners and Losers in the Global Economy	Books	2	1	5	N	N	A book that goes nowhere	A book that goes nowhere!<br />It seems to me a book should have a point of view. This book has none. One cannot fathom the author's purpose other than to be an outlet for his thorough knowledge of economics and the current  world economy. But knowledge and wisdom are two very different things. The  author explains the pros and cons of capitalism over and over and always  stops short of picking a side or point of view or reform. Generally he  seems concerned about too much capitalism but you never know if this is  real or just a necessary artifact to have something to imply beyond mere  description.   If you missed economics 101 in college or want a general  review of the international economy maybe this book is for you. If you want  a point of view on what's going in the world try MIlton Friedman's books  for an explanation of free trade or Understanding The Difference Between  Democrats And Republicans for a point of view on the politics of capitalism	2000-03-17
US	51382084	R27BS4DX5XJIFA	0060393319	400910345	How to Overthrow the Government	Books	1	0	5	N	N	Overthrow the Best Gov't in history?	Democrats and Republicans the same?  How odd can you get? Here we are in the most prosperous time in the history of the planet and in the most prosperous country on the planet, and Ms. Huffington wants us to overthrow the gov't that has played such a central role in everything that has happened to get us here? A book titled 'Counting our Blessings' would be far, far more logical. It would seem a sad confluence of events from her personal and professional life and has led her to be a strident reformer at exactly the least rational time in the history of the planet for such dramatic reform.  Accordingly, she stretches far to find issues that make sense and comes up very short time after time. She even downgrades her own arguments by calling them, \\"pet peeves\\" rather then real issues. Her biggest pet peeve seems to be that Archer Daniels Midland gets $300,000,000 a year in ethanol subsidies to nicely symbolize how special interest groups now run the gov't at the expense of little people. The truth is: 1) many agree with ethanol subsidies as insurance against the day when our oil supply finally runs out 2) The voters are a special interest who can vote out any politician who is too much in the pocket of any special interest. Any politician who takes a penny or casts one vote does so knowing his opponent in the next election will hold him fully accountable. 3) If the gov't really were for sale then the Nazi's, or big oil, or socialists, or Catholics would buy it, but instead it seems perfectly stable. 4) Given the unprecedented and widespread current prosperity it is silly to even consider the notion that special interests run the gov't for themselves. 5) We are all free to organize, raise money, and lobby the gov't , even if we want to lobby against what other lobbies are for. Perhaps her second biggest pet peeve is that very few people vote. She considers it 'scandalous' and just ghastly when in reality there is nothing to be concerned about. It is so tough to be a good reformer when there is so little to reform! If we passed a law that everyone had to vote then what: 1) Germans voted a lot and they voted for Hitler so we know that voting doesn't mean voting intelligently. It can actually lead to worse gov't; especially if you force people who didn't care enough or know enough to vote on their own. It is actually more logical to have voter qualification tests to insure that voters bring some expertise into the voting booth, and this would probably reduce rather than enlarge the electorate. It would seem you have to know something to vote intelligently just as you have to know something to perform surgery intelligently. We can be sure Ms. Huffington knows this, at least when she needs surgery. Perhaps her third biggest pet peeve is that the Democrats and Republicans are the same; so voters, she claims, have no choice really. Well, this is just a self serving lie; at best. For example, the Democrats and Hillary wanted to socialize medicine while the Republicans wanted to shut down the gov't. Several ratings groups, like the ADA assign numbers to each member of Congress based on the way he/she votes and, surprise, Democrats overwhelmingly vote very differently from Republicans. In fact Republicans strongly tend to vote in a Jeffersonian way for small gov't while Democrats tend to vote in a Hamiltonian way for larger gov't. This has always been the real and only central issue in American and world history and Ms. Huffington shamelessly steers the reader away from it. I would recommend to the reader 'Understanding The Difference Between Democrats and Republicans' which is still the classic on the real issue that has always faced America and the world and the real issue we have always and will always face each time we enter the voting booth.  Oh yes, Ms. Huffington also hates the idea that politicians do a lot of polling to know what the people they represent want them to do. She advises us to hang up on pollsters when they call for our opinion. So, it seems she wants more people to vote but fewer people to tell their representatives what they think? But why would our representatives be so concerned about what we think if they are in the hands of big money lobbyists as Ms.  Huffington claims?	2000-03-17
US	51382084	R175EQ3J8DCQ1L	0671046454	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree : Understanding Globalization	Books	2	8	15	N	N	Globilization is not really new	What do you really learn here?<br />    When I was in graduate school 25 years ago multinational corporations like ITT led by Harold Geneen were the concept; today we call that concept, globalization. But what is new? Sure,  free trade may have accelerated due to the end of communism and the rise of  the Internet but the concept is still the same old one. It seems to me the  book is an extremely muddled book about free trade....	2000-01-24
US	51382084	R3OSC8P6WM90GG	068812299X	901952437	Stiffed: The Betrayal of the American Man	Books	2	6	14	N	N	What is this book about??	The author first rose to fame with a Pulitzer Prize for a story about how a corporate reshuffling at Safeway disrupted the lives of so many people.  But what was the point? We learned in Economics 101 that all the  reshuffling from the horse and buggy to the Boeing 747 made progress  possible. If the truth be told the point is that  heart wrenching stories  about exploited little people are told over and over again so power will be  given to liberal sociologist (of which Ms Faludi is certainly one) so that  progress can be managed by them rather than the fools who prefer to travel  by 747 more than horse and buggy.    In her recent book,  &quot;Backlash&quot; the author claims that men are inherently evil  misogynists who are getting back at women for feminism in a thousand ways.  In the book at hand, &quot;Stiffed&quot; it is claimed men aren't really so  evil after all but rather they are victims too; victims of general culture;  particularly corporate culture.  The &quot;man of the house&quot; macho  gunslinger role just doesn't work for men anymore she claims. But the  changing role of men and women in modern society has been a standard essay  topic in high school English for 30 years so who needs another 700 pages  with, seemingly, thousands of more examples.       To make her case about  the way men are victims without  an obvious and meaningful role to play she  interviews tons of very sad men from many walks of life to detail the  particular corporate/cultural tragedy that has befallen them. But what an  effort she made, thinking the whole time she was uncovering new men and new  truths, when she could have just turned on The Jerry Springer Show to see  the same male porn stars she later wrote about. But the Springer Show is  much more accurate in its way. It seems to have an equal number of totally  crazy women too. This would lead to the conclusion that being absolutely  crazy or just suffering from a general malaise(as President Carter said)  has to do with more than gender. But, for a true believer like the author  feminism is all and all is feminism. But, if men can be victims too then  perhaps they can be enlisted to support their feminist brethren. Such a  development sparked by this book would be worth two Pulitzers for sure. But  that is too grand for a book that absolutely misdiagnosis the problem and  does not even aspire to offer a course of action, let alone a solution.      Many see social, political, economic, cultural problems and from them they  derive a solution which they ardently want us to accept, and even vote for  but &quot;Stiffed&quot; can't even make the tiniest attempt in this  direction because the problem has been so recklessly defined. When asked  have no prescription&quot; and  when pressed hard she was able to say only  coalition that was protesting free world trade in Seattle, and 2) they  should join in the French movement against the imperialistic MacDonald's  Hamburger stands which are spreading throughout France like a cancer. Well,  in econ 101 you learn about free trade that if you can only buy things made  within 100 miles of your home your standard of living would be cut by 99%  and that if you can freely buy things made anywhere in the world your  standard of living would go up by 99%. And, you  learn that it is silly to  ban MacDonald's (or any company in a democratic society) since it will be  banned anyway, at the exact the moment its customers agree that it is a  cancer rather than a blessing.     It is hard to recommend a replacement  book since one has no idea what the topic is.  But, &quot;Understanding The  Difference Between Democrats and Republicans&quot; is still the classic  primer on all the major political, social, cultural, and economic problems  that face a modern world, and, those problems are neatly detailed by  political parties so that when you walk into a voting booth or bump into a  Ms Faludi you will have a simple, intellectually honest context from whichto respond.	1999-12-28
US	51382084	R3TTSL2RIQ0UGG	1580631053	866122690	Vote.com: How Big-Money Lobbyists and the Media are Losing Their Influence, and the Internet is Giving Power to the People	Books	1	47	78	N	N	INTERNET FEVER TO DESTROY AMERICA.?	It is hard to find a book more self-assured and more mistaken than this one.It is entirely built on the tired, old, and completely mistaken assumption that the battle between Democrats&amp; Republicans is over.  Vote.Com, (that's the book's name) can then apparently provide a new  direction for America. The audacity of this conclusion is nothing less than  absurd. The books claims that the essential Republican ideas thought up by  William Buckley Jr. in the 1950's are now irrelevant since they have  prevailed. The Cold War is won, crime is down, welfare is reformed, the  budget is balanced, and the economy is booming. Then he claims that the  current US Government, especially the Congress, is bought and paid for by  special interests. Lastly, he claims that the American electorate is always  right and by directly soliciting their wisdom, through the Internet, we can  avoid the bought and paid for Congress and somehow reach Nirvana.<br />The  obvious truth is: 1) Republican ideology has become mainstream and perhaps  did save the world but it has by no means prevailed. Hillary Clinton wanted  to and almost succeeded in nationalizing health care. Republicans and  Democrats fight tooth and nail; often to a draw in the Congress because the  Republicans have not prevailed; certainly not while they are, generally  speaking, for smaller gov't while the gov't spends, conservatively,  $100,000 for every household in America. 2) Vote. Com claims that the  Congress is bought and paid for by special interests and this is evil, but  it acknowledges that under the current evil system the Cold War is won,  crime is down, welfare is reformed, the budget is balanced, and the economy  is booming with wide participation. This book and others would have us  believe that the Stalinists buy the gov't one year and then the Communists  buy it the next. In fact, nothing remotely similar to this happens. If a  Congressman did sell out to, say, a Stalinist or even any moderate  extremist of any sort the media and electorate would immediately dispatch  him. 3) Vote.com's idea that all wisdom resides with the electorate is  completely crazy and thankfully completely unconstitutional. We live in a  constitutional, representative republic so that power is diffused in a  constitution, the media, the electorate, the branches of federal and state  gov't, and the business community, precisely so no one special interest can  prevail. The Vote. Com idea of scrapping the best system of gov't in the  history of the world to give complete power to the electorate when an  average member of the electorate can't tell you who the Vice President is,  is just plain off the wall crazy. Power to the people is the old strategy  used well by the Communists to recruit a peasant army and secure power and  apparently the same strategy used by Vote.com to promote another very bad  idea.      If you are interested in a realistic look at the issues that  face America read &quot;Understanding The Difference Between Democrats and  Republicans.&quot; It is the classic on the single most important issue of  politics. You can bet that each time you walk into a voting booth for the  rest of your life it is the understanding on which you and eventually your  children will be asked to vote. If you know about the 200 year old struggle  between Democratic and Republican ideology that has shaped and built  America you know about politics. Why bother with those who try to distract  us, for whatever reason, from the very old but very critical issues of  American public life.	1999-11-23
US	51382084	REN32PB806739	0375503323	797779175	I Ain't Got Time to Bleed: Reworking the Body Politic from the Bottom Up	Books	1	2	8	N	N	The Dangerous Reform Party	I had always wondered what the reform party stood for. With such diverse players as Ventura, Buchannan,Trump, Wicker, etc it is hard to know. But this book explained it. It stands for the ego and ignorance of its  candidates. Ventura lays out his positions and, after all the fan fare,  they are mostly main stream anti gov't Republican positions. This means  that the Reform Party(at least the part influenced by Ventura) will most  likely split the Republican Party vote and thereby elect Democrats.  So why  should they bother helping the Democrats who hold generally opposing ideas?  Simple- Jesse doesn't know  what the Democratic and Republican positions  are, and it is good for his ego, career, and bank account.    American  elections have always been decided by the ignorant masses in the middle who  swing back and forth between Democrats and Republicans depending on which  feels the most glamorous at the time, while those who are committed to a  philosophical political position tend to vote consistently for one major  party or the other. Without the capacity to be loyal to political ideas and in a decisive position, if only by virtue of their numbers, the ignorant  masses are necessarily courted by all who want to get elected. But, they  are courted at a very low intellectual level  because they lack the  capacity for more.   For the moment  at least Jesse Ventura and his reform  Party are taking full advantage of this.      If you have a serious  interest in understanding American political parties and how to vote intelligently, read: Understanding the Difference Between Democrats and  Republicans. It is still the classic on the suject and, unbelievably, one  of the few books even written on the subject.      If you are interested in  the life of Jesse Ventura this is a good book; perhapas the only book to  date. Despite his obvious intellectual shortcomings he comes off as warm(  at least to his family and that is reassuring) likable, colorful,  adventurous in theextreme, and infectious.	1999-10-22
US	51382084	R3P42EHZRVTCTF	1580621732	915589924	All Men Are Jerks - Until Proven Otherwise: A Woman's Guide to Understanding Men	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Romper Room For Women	From a man's point of view the title of this book is offensive, but, hey, we do live in a male bashing era where a double standard is permitted.  The title is perfectly trendy, manipulative and politically correct.  But then on page 11 the  book says, &quot;Women are the jerks.  We let men know we'll happily accept so  little from them&quot;.  All 300 hundred pages are about a huge assortment of  extremely elementary things women must do to be happy and get a man.  What promised  to be a cutting indictment of men, turned out to be a child's introduction to  dating.  If you are a woman and consider yourself in need of an intro dating course,  or even if you just feel like a refresher course, perhaps this book is for you.  But be prepared to learn,for example: men don't fall in love on schedule, many  men are terrified of getting hurt, women often go to bed quickly and then don't  hear from him again, spirituality is the best way to find happiness, a relationship  takes work on both sides.  The book covers a huge laundry list and fairly well too;  but it has no idea of its own and no uniting principle, and so is unlikely to leave  the reader with a new course of action or thought.  It seems mostly and merely an  attempt to capitalize on a slick title.<br />In contrast, a book like: The 91% Factor  has a single, new and very critical point to make.  It therefore sticks with you  long after the book is gone and can't help but be incorporated into your  relationship behavior.  And it does it without the dubious romantic proposition  that both genders are jerks.	1999-10-22
US	51382084	R3TRHNVH75BKZ9	0385324022	260819257	Marriage Shock	Books	3	7	12	N	N	But what is the solution?	An excellent description of why we divorce but no solution! I give this book an excellent  grade for identifying a problem( women become second class shortly after marriage). Her idea is that it happens because of fairly recent cultural traditions, and this is more creative than the  feminist approach that it happens because men are patriarchal male  chauvinist pigs. Others would claim it is in the basic nature of women.  They would argue that women prove this by always seeking a taller  man,expecting him to ask her for the first and second date,expecting him to  pay and earn more; assuming the bottom in bed etc etc.  But regardless of  the cause she is quite correct that women loose power after marriage,  despite having the power to make a man tremble over every word on a first  date, causing men to loose the love and respect his date once inspired.       The solution to this fascinating problem is absent in this book and  largely absent in feminism,psychology, and popular culture despite a  divorce rate hovering at 55%. The book: The 91% Factor: why women initiate  91% of divorce recognizes this problem but is mostly about how women can  always inspire their men rather than become unloved servants.	1999-09-08
US	51382084	R1YMJQZWIOBAVT	0385423977	176728640	The Beauty Myth: How Images of Beauty Are Used Against Women	Books	2	34	104	N	N	HOW CAN BIOLOGY BE A MYTH?	This book claims that girls and  women are sold images of beauty that in the worst case cause 10's of thousands  of deaths due to things like anorexia. Firstly, this is not true. The actual number is closer to one  hundred. Secondly, the basic idea makes little sense since it blames others  for the beauty myths women buy. Each of us are every day subject to  salesman who would sell us everything conceivable until our last penny and  then some was exhausted.But this doesn't happen.Even if it did it would say  more about women than it would say  about  salesman.  And,  if  women buy  stuff  Ms. Wolf doesn't like because they want to be as pretty as Ms.  Wolf(she is georgous)  why should she object anyway?  Let her be ugly, or  average, or at least hide her beauty, before she writes such a book!     In   fact women try to be beautiful to attract men. It is what biology  intended. Men become doctors lift weights and do all sorts of silly and  practical things to attract women too;again as biology intended. Since we  can't overcome biology anymore than we can overcome,say,  hunger why not  seek harmony rather than conflict. Many books take a broader and more  intelliectual  look at beauty than  Ms. Wolf's purely political tract. Try  &quot;The Descent of Woman&quot; by Morgan or &quot;The 91% Factor:Why  Women Initiate 91% Of Divorce&quot; for a non-partisan look at why biology  really created beauty.	1999-08-25
US	51382084	RW8EBOH6EV2F3	0671004441	957459469	The Alchemy of Love and Lust	Books	3	15	21	N	N	A hormone book not a relationship  book	This is generally a good book but it is good as a reference book on hormones far more than as a relationship book. If you want a list of each hormone, and then some, it is here and so is the behavior connected with  each hormone and each combination of hormones. But in the end it does not  even pretend to tell you what to do. It stops far short of being actionable  probably because the author is a medical doctor rather than a psychologist  or philosopher. Books like the Mars/Venus book and The 91% Factor: Why  women Initiate 91% of Divorce pick up on how you deal with the behavior  caused by hormones.	1999-08-20
US	51382084	R1LWAOHC876SPO	0226264017	218317724	Capitalism and Freedom (Phoenix Books)	Books	2	6	49	N	N	all 100% correct except for one glaring ommission	Mr. Friedman is certainly the greatest living economist and this book is the best there is for an introduction to what capitalism really is. Mr Friedman explains to us the complex basics of economics that most still  don't understand. For example when two capitalists exchange money or goods  is one getting ripped off, are they doing something trivial, selfish, or  wasteful  that should be regulated by the gov't, or are they advancing the  cause of prosperity ,civilization and freedom? Mr. Friedman walks us  through these issues, and more, very brilliantly but in the end he doesn't  tell us what to do. When we watch the evening news or walk into the voting  booth we are not asked for our opinion of capitialism,rather, we are asked  our opinions of Democrats and Republicans. The real issue is not capitalism  vs. other; it is Republicans vs Democrats. The book: Understanding The  Difference Between Democrats and Republicans is still one of the very few,  unbelievably, that deals with this, the most important issue we face. And  it isn't ashamed to point out at great length  the connection between  Republicans, capitalism, and freedom.	1999-08-11
US	51382084	RQF7I42RT965Y	0060928883	965235881	Cutting Loose: Why Women Who End Their Marriages Do So Well	Books	1	22	57	N	N	CUTTING LOOSE ONLY TO REMARRY AND DIVORCE AGAIN?	This book is an amazing contradiction. The title implies thatdivorce is wonderful. This appeals to the NYC liberal feministpublishing culture that sees divorce as a weapon against male chauvinism. The text attempts to support this mistaken position but the facts always seem to portray the author as trying to squeeze in the truth despite what the publisher really wanted, like a prisoner of war blinking out the real message in the miiddle of a confession. For example,the author points out that second marriages are shorter than first marriages. How can divorce be wonderful if it leads to another divorce in less time? Does somebody think divorce is fun, or good for children. The book tries to celebrate divorce for 268 pages then at the very end says, &quot;the way women are poisons their own first and second marriages and thereby cause the cycle of joy and misery.&quot; If women poison their marriages why should they celebrate their divorce especially since they will only go on to poison their second and third marriages the same way? The men in these marriages emerge as the real victims of women who have to grow up, but of course are not entitled to one bit of sympathy despite being on the receiving end of 90% of divorce. This book celebrates divorce the same way a child celebrates a 10 lb. ice cream cone, i.e., by not thinking about the soon to be realized consequences. It is extraordinarily immature. The failure of this book lies in the conflict between feminism and the facts.  For a serious rational look at the differences between men and women and how the differences can be used to build a loving eternal marriage (this is afterall what evolution intended and what kids need) I recommend 1) The 91% Factor: Why Women Initiate 91% Of Divorce, 2) Men are from Mars (this is a a little simple but nevertheless very accurate, 3) The Alchemy of Love And Lust	1999-08-06
US	51382084	RIZFL9W8E0PC1	006016848X	587492563	Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus: A Practical Guide for Improving Communication and Getting What You Want in Your Relationships	Books	1	21	28	N	N	30 YEARS OF INTERNATIONAL FEMINISM DEFEATED	Let's give Dr. Grey credit  for at least one thing. Feminists have told us for 30 years that men and women are the same; now Dr. Grey assures us that men and women are actually different or from Mars and Venus respectively.  He certainly deserves much credit for this amazing one man  counter-revolution. He has said that the huge success of his book is in  large part due to the pent up demand for the truth that  feminists have  denied us during a very important period of rapid social change.    But,  from there Dr. Grey gets very very simplistic and repetitive. For example,  his most famous example of what to do to make a relationship work is for  the woman to let the man go in his cave(TV room) and not nag him to come  out. Gray claims this is natural behavior for men who need to rest and  brood and plan after a day of hunting or working. Similarly men should  understand that it is natural for a woman to seek out contact, affiliation,  and affection after her day. But, there is no solution here. Men are more  likely to feel reinforced about going into their caves even longer and  women are likely to be even more demanding about their needs. &quot;The 91%  Factor&quot; goes way beyond this simplicity by suggesting specific ways  men and women can trade behaviors so each gets what he wants. Further, it  deals mostly with the way each approaches sex  which after all is far and  away the most significant difference between men and women that must be  taken into account if a heterosexual relationship is to succeed.	1999-08-04
US	51382084	R4XX7UU50S7Q8	0395691303	475246433	Woman: An Intimate Geography	Books	2	5	14	N	N	The 999th version of &quot; I Am Woman Here Me Roar&quot;,	but the pop song of 30 years ago was more rationale than this 400 page book. What an incredibly ridiculous book, and yet so loved and so hyped by the NYC intellectual crowd. I was sucked in, having been told that it was a  brilliant reassertion of feminism in the face of recent losses imposed by  biologists and evolutionary psychologists who have been quietly presenting  data for a decade or so to the effect that, surprise, men and women not  only have different names but they are different too. What is obvious to  parents and kindergarten teachers and biologists and those who run dating  services (4 year college grad women stilll all request a taller man who  pays for the first date) is simply ignored in this book. The introduction  promises  a frontal assault but by the end of the first chapter the reader  senses quite clearly it will never materilize.  Sensing a need to be on  topic and political as the first chapter ends, the reader learns that women  need not feel inferior to men just because they produce only a finite  number of eggs at one point in time while men produce an infinite amount of  sperm throughout their entire lives. To polish man off for sure and to  rejuvenate vanquished woman the book administers the coup de grace by  comparing sperm to cancer or a viruses in its ability to replicate. All  things considered the pop song: &quot;I am woman hear me roar&quot; was  more of an intellectual argument, but hey maybe very very deep in their  psyche men do feel superior because of their prolific sperm, and women  inferior because of their scarce  eggs, but if you believe that......I  would say, &quot;OH MY GOD&quot;.  It is really a sight to behold that  after all these years the NY intellectual elite is still critically  overdosing on feminism and male bashing while socially constructive books  like &quot;The 91% Factor&quot; which rationally accepts the obvious  biological differences between the sexes and proposes a way for the sexes  to love each other given the differences, is very very politically  incorrect. In this case war is better than peace and love among the  liberals.     You think chapter two is better? It is, in that much of the  book's underlying motive is revealed. Incredibly, the author reveals that  her father was a frustrated biologist and male chauvinist who argued that  men are more interesting and dominant because they have two different  chromosomes (X,Y) while poor women only have two chromosomes(X,X) but they  are the same. So the reader gets treated to 400 pages of neurotic  refutation of arguments that at there very best were patently ridiculous to  begin with. Serious refutation of biology and evolutionary psychology is  nowhere to be found.  Sensing a desperate need,again,to salvage a chapter,  chapter two ends informing  the reader that testosterone and libido are not  linked. Doctors who give men testosterone shots to stimulate libido would  surely wonder about this conclusion. But the book boldly refutes all of  biological history. The reader learns, anecdotally, of a tiny worldwide  support group that meets only in England for women with an extremely rare(1  in 20,000 ) disease(AIS)that makes them testosterone insensitive. They say  they are sexual nevertheless; so presto chango, history stops; testosterone  and libido are not linked. And, these women, anecdotally at least,are  aggressive too; so testosterone and aggression are no longer linked,  despite all of history . Darn, all those eunuchs lost so much and now it  turns out it was just a mistake?     In the end there is no serious  argument  or science here; just woman  celebrating  women which is fine but  when a woman promises to do such intellectually, she should.	1999-05-27
