US	51394793	RAVK6TL17WX60	1592530168	355052156	Cutler Anderson Architects	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	A new take on the Northwest vernacular	James Cutler makes his home on Bainbridge Island, near Seattle, where he is able to carry out his work in relative privacy . This monograph is the second to exhibit the work he has become famous for - a bare bones Northwest vernacular that owes as much to his Pennsylvania roots as it does to the Pacific Northwest.  It is readily apparent that Cutler studied under Louis Kahn in the exacting details he demands in all his projects.  He now has the luxury to pick and choose his clients which have include Bill Gates.  You get a small glimpse of the Gates estate in the Entry Turnaround in Medina, Washington.  He and Peter Bohlin worked on the project together, setting up a sawmill on the site to cut the recycled timber to their specifications.  As Cutler once said, I never look at the same detail twice, re-examining the methods and materials of construction anew in each project he undertakes.<br /><br />With the introduction of Bruce Anderson to the firm, he has begun to investigate pre-fabricated housing in the form of the Lindal Cedar Home, but you can see that it is the unique individual homes which he relishes.  He experimented with rammed-earth construction in the Residence at Meteor Vineyards in Napa Valley, creating a unique marbled finish; but it is projects like the Schmidt Residence that bear his signature in the intricate woodwork and metal connections.  This book provides you with a short but thorough look into several of the projects, illustrating that James Cutler is one of the leading architects of his generation.	2005-10-13
US	51394793	R3M2SAE3YHXCFU	0684840022	864239842	Rising Tide: The Great Mississippi Flood of 1927 and How it Changed America	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Of Man and the River	If you thought Hurricane Katrina packed a devastating whallop to the Louisiana and Mississippi Coast, wait until you read this engrossing story of the 1927 Great Mississippi Flood which inundated the entire Misssissippi Delta.  Barry does a great job of providing the background for the levee system which has repeatedly failed the Delta because beauracrats were unwilling to bend to any common sense when it came to handling the mighty Mississippi.  They insisted on building their levees higher and wider, channeling the river into a raging torrent come high water.  The Army Corps of Engineers chose to cling to outdated manuscripts rather than study the situation first hand, which was repeatedly asked for by civil engineers who saw a monumental crisis in the making.<br /><br />Barry makes a good case for Eads' proposal for jetties in deepening the mouth of the Mississippi and creating a greater flow of water into the Gulf of Mexico. While this was done primarily to increase navigation into and from the Port of New Orleans, jetties would have made a lot more sense than a system of levees that essentially served to choke the river.  To make matters worse the Corps systematically closed off spillways and refused to cut canals even after the 1922 flood should have served as a warning call.<br /><br />But, Barry treats the rising Mississippi as a metaphorical tool as well, describing Jim Crow South in intimate detail, contrasting the bigoted paternalism of the Percy family with the malignant growth of the Ku Klux Klan, and its impact on Southern politics.  It is a well written book that focuses mostly on the Mississippi Delta, the cultural and economic battle for this prized acreage and the river that would ultimately engulf the region.	2005-09-18
US	51394793	R3RSP852JZ6R6X	3764369868	291514482	Roof Construction Manual, English Edition	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Well worth the price	One in a series of indispensible DETAIL Construction Manuals, Roof Construction covers a broad range of roof types from modern built-up and tensile roofs to traditional shake and thatched roofs to green and solar roofs, with an excellent collection of detail drawings at 1:10 scale.  The book is also packed with vital information regarding the history of roof types and fundamentals of roof construction, big and small.  You can't go wrong in adding this book to your reference shelf.	2005-09-14
US	51394793	R11MLR5AOV06B8	0471099805	461921051	Building Codes Illustrated: A Guide to Understanding the International Building Code	Books	4	21	21	N	Y	A little less mindnumbing	Building Codes are never a fun subject to have to research, but Ching makes it a little less mindnumbing by providing illustrations.  I see that he has updated the book to coincide with the most recent 2006 International Building Code, since I first wrote this review.  So, you can rest assured that you are getting an up-to-date guide to help you decipher the building codes.  It is not all inclusive, however, so a copy of the 2006 IBC remains essential.	2005-08-13
US	51394793	R2SKFULKRZHP9P	0471620602	570815814	Architectural Graphic Standards	Books	4	11	14	N	N	An abridgement of the ninth edition	At less than $40 for a used copy, the Student Edition can't be beat, as it provides most of the essential information from the complete Graphic Standards.  The information is organized along the lines of Masterspec with additional sections on Energy and Environmental Design and Historic Preservation. It is certainly enough to get you started.  It is also important to have relevant code books. Ching's Building Codes Illustrated is a good place to start.  It is nice to have so much building construction information consolidated into one book.	2005-08-13
US	51394793	RJ55O2KL9WMF3	0060956445	571510645	Monkey Wrench Gang, The	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	A call to nature	The Monkey Wrench Gang is less an indictment of bad land management as it is a call to nature.  Abbey assembled a motley crew, led by a lapsed Mormon, that set out to sabotage the mining and lumber interests in the Four Corners region.  Seldom Seen Smith, who might be regarded as the brain of the operations, is joined by a bitter Vietnam vet, an overweight and overburdened doctor and his luscious girlfriend.  The book takes you on a wonderful tour through \\"Indian Country\\" showing how these once pristine natural resources are being laid to waste.  Abbey develops each of the characters and their unusual relationships with each other.  Hayduke, the Vietnam vet, eventually takes over the operation, with the aid of the doctor's girlfriend, Bonnie.  His unbridled anger is only assuaged by destroying machinery and wild sexual abandon.  Bonnie begudgingly goes along for the ride, only to become an integral part of the action.  I got the feeling that Abbey didn't quite know what to do with her, fawning over her as if in a wet dream at times.  Eventually, Abbey brings his gang back together for one last act of sabotage before going on the lamb, but the gang soon finds itself on the run with its string of eco-terrorist acts drawn to an end. It is great fun to read, but you can draw your own conclusions to the meaning of these events. Douglas Brinkley takes his stab at it in the intro to this edition, which appears to have a revised ending.	2005-07-30
US	51394793	R82J6QPKTQFPL	0307275329	387937921	A Summer of Faulkner: As I Lay Dying/The Sound and the Fury/Light in August (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	17	23	N	N	Southern Gothic	This is certainly a great three-pack of Faulkner, but arguably the hardest of Faulkner's books to grasp, so be warned before you embark on this journey of discovery.  A great introduction to Faulkner is the Snopes Trilogy, collected into one volume by Modern Library.  However, Oprah has gone for the heavyweights, especially in The Sound and the Fury which focuses on a deeply troubled family, as told through separate view points.<br /><br />Of all Faulkner's novels, this one has probably had the most lasting impact, both in terms of storytelling and the complexity of characters involved. The book opens with a stream of consciousness as told by a man-child.  It is easy to be confused by this passage, but the story sorts itself out in later passages.  For more depth, read Absalom, Absalom, which reveals more about Quentin in telling one of Faulkner's most gothic of southern novels.<br /><br />I think it is great that Oprah has started her book club back up, and I admire her bravery in leading her loyal readers through these novels.  Good luck!	2005-06-05
US	51394793	R2L4ZHR25AJFZ7	0618127445	830672792	Water: The Fate of Our Most Precious Resource	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	A real eye opener	This is an excellent overview of the water problems plaguing the globe at the moment, as Marq de Villiers travels far and wide to show just how precious a resource water really is.  Most importantly, he does so in a very accessible style of writing that personalizes so many of the issues surrounding the rapid depletion of aquifers by drawing on childhood memories of his home farm in South Africa and first hand sources in the current geopolitical battles.<br /><br />Of note is the Middle East and North Africa where the battle over water is entertwined with the ongoing political disputes.  He notes how carefully Israel has managed its water resources yet is heavily reliant on sources in the West Bank to sustain its agricultural industry.  Needless to say this has made the issue of Palestinian statehood that much more difficult.  He also explores the thorny relationships along the Nile where downstream Egypt has threatened to go to war with the Sudan and Ethiopia over any divergence attempts with this great river.  And, Kaddafi's attempts to create a massive underground river from aquifers deep below the Sahara to coastal Libya, in order to restore badly depleted sources.<br /><br />But, even in seemingly water rich nations like the US and Canada, water battles persist, mostly to do with the contamination of rivers and aquifers that are the result of industrial waste and poor farming practices.  More thorny are precious water rights in dry states like Wyoming and Montana that often end up in court and sometimes settled using frontier justice.<br /><br />For those not familiar with the looming water crisis, this book will be a real opener, for others it will provide valuable information regarding disputes from the Yellow River in China to the Colorado River, which has long since quit flowing to the Gulf of California.  While de Villiers avoids being the doomsayer, he does make one exceedingly worried about the future of this most precious resource.	2005-05-02
US	51394793	R1RIXZPLQNM666	1886913137	928128139	Hope, Human and Wild: True Stories of Living Lightly on the Earth	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Up from poverty	Bill McKibben offers a more hopeful set of scenarios in this book, pointing to cities like Curitiba and regions like Kerala as examples of how communities can achieve sustainability and raise standards of living without big money projects.  Closer to home, McKibben shows how forests are being regenerated in the Northeast allowing wolves, moose and other wild species to reinhabit this region.  But, something seemed to be missing in this volume.  It lacked the focus of The End of Nature and didn't seem to go very far beyond surface observations.  Nonetheless, I am thankful to McKibben for drawing attention to Curitiba and Kerala, showing that in many ways the so-called Third World has achieved greater sustainability than many parts of the so-called First World, leading him to make the salient observation that maybe we should re-examine our priorities here in the United States.	2005-04-16
US	51394793	R1HS0NH4650TW1	0500200726	705739506	The Sources of Modern Architecture and Design (World of Art)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A quick review of the precedents of the Modern Movement	An excellent primer on the 19th and early 20th century sources of Modern Architecture, but a little thin when it comes to the underlying theories that set the stage for the movement that began after WWI.  Pevsner starts with the British Arts and Crafts Movement and ends with the Deutscher Werkbund, which the Arts and Crafts Movement inspired.  He covers the short Art Nouveau era, making some interesting comments on the role Gaugin played in it by inspiring a return to primitivism in the early stages of the movement.  He notes the strong impact Frank Lloyd Wright had on the European architects at the turn of the century with the publication of the Wasmuth monograph, and the further impact of Cubism in leading to the further abstraction of architectural form. But, for the most part the book is a catalog of buildings and decorative designs that will give the reader a good starting point for investigating the roots of the Modern Movement.	2004-12-27
US	51394793	R17HP3FRL8EJZR	0689878168	663565940	Teatro Olivia	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The ultimate child fantasy!	With elaborate fold-out sets, six Olivia paper dolls and a Playbill that offers up plot summaries, your child can create a world of his or her own for Olivia.  In addition, there is extra stock so that kids can design their own backdrops, letting their imagination soar.  This is a wonderful package, perfectly timed for the holiday season, and sure to be a winner under the Christmas tree.	2004-11-16
US	51394793	R2AZLWLBWJTIJ5	0312312989	442223959	The Last Girl: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Vilnius by candlelight	I'll give this novel three stars for effort, but that's about it.  Collishaw tries to piece together a story that spans three generations of Vilnius, hoping to make some sense of the Holocaust which took place in Lithuania.  Only problem is that it took him some 170 pages to finally get around to the heart of his story, in which the narrator retells his time in Vilnius during the height of WWII.<br /><br />I thought it was presumptuous, to say the least, for Collishaw, a young Brit, to take the point of view of a Lithuanian penshioner.  The book drags lethargically for the first two parts as Collishaw tries desperately to get into the mind of his character and offer some background on mid 90's Vilnius.  It seems that Collishaw had been reading too much Kafka and not taking enough notes of what he saw in Vilnius at the time, as Collishaw paints it as a dank, dark, depressing place, which I suppose fits the mood of his anti-hero, Steponas Daumantas.  He might as well have called him St. Stephen.<br /><br />Eventually Collishaw gets around to telling what he set out to tell, and that is a story of the Holocaust.  Collishaw draws heavily on poetic and painterly metaphors, creating a very naive version of the Holocaust in Vilnius.  It moves along well enough, with a cross-cultural love affair, a good Polish pal, and enough intrigue to keep you interested.  But, like the rest of the novel, it doesn't say much about Vilnius. It is simply someone trying to empathize with the history of this city.<br /><br />I guess one should credit Collishaw for making a game effort.  But, that's all it is.  He obviously lacks the where-with-all to deal with the material he is trying to assemble in this novel.  He covers over it with reasonably compelling characters and an atmospheric setting that will be new to most readers, but in the end this is no more than a bowl of milky soup.	2004-10-17
US	51394793	R3MUEUMLOXAGZH	0689829531	632597912	Olivia	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A delightful visual feast	It is amazing what a talented artist can do with the most simple aspects of life, when he finds the perfect persona for those actions.  This book is a real treat, not only for pre-schoolers but adults as well.  This just maybe the best children's book series since Harold and the Purple Crayon, drawing on the ordinary and making it into the extraordinary.	2004-09-25
US	51394793	R129BQ6ZKVN7WP	0684863316	419002241	Alexander Hamilton, American	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Why Alexander Hamilton Should Remain on the Ten-Dollar Bill	Brookhiser offers a very opinionated view of Alexander Hamilton, defending him from his detractors over the years, and showing just how instrumental a role Hamilton had in the American Revolution and the post-Revolutionary government.  Brookhiser skips lightly over Hamilton's early years in the Caribbean, which are rather cloudy to begin with, and also his formative years in America.  He focuses on Hamilton's role in promoting the new Constitution in the Federalist Papers and before the New York Convention, which eventually approved it, overcoming the staunch anti-Federalists in the state such as Aaron Burr.  Hamilton emerges as a man who saw the forest through the trees, one step ahead of his political opponents until they eventually caught up to him in the early 19th century.  He was a man of immense intellect who has to be considered the father of our economy, with so many far-reaching ideas that they are still with us today.  The book is a little short for a man of such national importance, but it is easily accessible and will provide the reader with a good overall impression of the man, who was our nation's first Secretary of the Treasury.	2004-09-07
US	51394793	R2S3RXMY2VGGX8	0393324818	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	By the numbers	Michael Lewis has certainly written a very engaging book which shows how the rules of the game have changed ever since Bill James' Baseball Abstracts became common currency in the front offices, but no one really took James' in-depth analyses to heart until Billy Beane came along, who used them to evaluate the talent pool in the minor leagues and colleges.<br /><br />Lewis spends the first half of the book explaining this approach, which stresses on base and slugging percentages, and devalues traditional stats like HR's, RBI's and steals.  This was a bitter pill for scouts who gauged players on their stature, rather the numbers.  The result being that they went after buff high school ball players, rather than stallwart college players.<br /><br />Beane had been one of those high school players who never panned out in the big leagues.  The bread and butter players tend to come from the college ranks, and Lewis demonstrates how Beane was able to see past traditional stereotypes and field players on the A's who first and foremost got on base.<br /><br />Lewis fills his story with a fun array of anecdotes and observations which gives the reader a vibrant image of the A's front office and the chagrin of scouts, managers, and players alike in having to play Beane Ball.  This turned out to be a boon to the economic savvy new A's owners who were determined to keep costs down and efficiency up.  Beane also knew how to play the trading deadline better than anyone, which allowed the A's to make amazing second half finishes.<br /><br />All this discounted the prevailing notion that one had to have big bucks to field a great baseball team.  The A's consistently won 90 games, defying the odds with a payroll a fraction of the cost of the Yankees, and nearly beat the Yankees in the playoffs.  But, one is also disheartened at how baseball is reduced to numbers, with players being swapped around the big leagues like trading cards, so that baseball owners meet their bottom line.ne.	2004-09-03
US	51394793	R1PM155531L9PQ	0674443020	734738555	The Ideological Origins of the American Revolution	Books	5	21	21	N	N	One of the great books on the American Revolution	Long before there were bloggers and political pundits there were the pamphleteers.  Bernard Bailyn shows just how important pamphleteering was in getting the message out.  Take Tom Paine's Common Sense for instance.  More than 200,000 copies were distributed throughout the colonies, making it a runaway bestseller in its day.  He championed universal suffrage, the unicameral legislature and a clean break from England.  He was countered by John Adams, who, in Thoughts on Government, felt a more prudent course was in order.  Bailyn gleens from these famous pamphlets and many others and presenting a very compelling history of the American Revolution.  It was a revolution in thought as well as government, that eventually saw Adams' Federalist ideas seize the upper hand.  But, Pennsylvania initially adopted many of Paine's ideas, creating the only unicameral legislature in the United States, and extending voting rights to most men.<br /><br />My book is heavily tagged, because there is so much to draw from these pages.  Bailyn lays the foundations for the political discourse that would shape our nation.  At times this discourse could be quite vehement in its pronouncements and its denunciations. It was never boring. Tom Paine emerges as one of the heros in this book, championing The Rights of Man, which have a far greater impact 50 years later when Andrew Jackson rode into the White House declaring himself a champion of the common man.	2004-08-10
US	51394793	R2W5P4TIZECE3G	0385084765	594348632	The Hidden Dimension (Anchor Books a Doubleday Anchor Book)	Books	3	65	78	N	N	Badly dated	It had been required reading when I was in college, but I found it hadn't aged very well on a second reading.  Hall tried to make his case against urban overcrowding, citing the \\"behavioral sinks\\" that were being created in the 1960's.  He presented numerous examples, starting with mice, that showed the debilitating effects overcrowding has on animals, and applied this to the overpopulated urban environments.<br /><br />More interesting was the study he did on the way persons from different culture perceive space, drawing from American, European, Arab and Asian societies.  Even between Americans and English the differences were startling, but it seemed to me that he made too much of these differences, that affluence has as much a role in shaping the way people perceive space as does culture, which Hall did not touch upon.<br /><br />Hall was pessimistic of the modern cities in America, noting that the race riots, in his mind, resulted from the cultural differences between Whites, Blacks and Hispanics.  I think it had more to do with social inequalities than it did race, but Hall seemed convinced there are inherit differences between the races that could not be overcome, which I found to be too deterministic.	2004-08-07
US	51394793	RB28Q95D3ASM1	0143035002	289712823	Anna Karenina	Books	5	62	79	N	N	The greatest romance of them all	Who would have thought this novel would soar to the top of the amazon charts? Certainly not the translators, Pevear and Volokhonsky, who were shocked to hear their edition had been selected for Oprah's Book Club. It is great boon for them and the novel as well, which might be regarded as the godmother of the modern romance novel. Tolstoy weaves a magic web, bringing together dysfunctional aristocratic families in perhaps the most memorable Russian novel.<br /><br />This translation brings the story to life for the non-Russian speaker. Pevear and Volokhonsky have made a habit out of translating Russian novels, from Gogol to Dostoevsky, and now are even tackling Tolstoy's epic work, War and Peace. The language is modern yet true to the Russian original, thanks in large part to Ms. Volokhonsky who is a native Russian speaker.<br /><br />The story itself has been told so many times before that it doesn't need repeating. But for those who would like a little more insight into the novel, I would suggest reading Nabokov's chapter on Anna Karenina in his Lectures on Russian Literature, as he provides many valuable references over and above those provided by Pevear and Volokhonsky.	2004-07-29
US	51394793	R2JF4OFUTNPUES	067975704X	159340689	Dark Continent: Europe's Twentieth Century	Books	4	21	22	N	N	A rough and tumble history	It's not quite as dark as the title implies, but Mazower does take a sharply critical look at Europe from Versailles, 1919, to the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.  Along the way, Mazower shows the tumultuous course of national politics and democracy as they struggled to fight off totalitarian regimes.  There is a welcome focus on the Eastern Europe nations, Yugoslavia in particular, and how the battles for statehood resulted in numerous conflicts, chief among them WWII.<br /><br />He charts the rise of Hitler and Stalin in a broad sense, noting how their regimes arose as a result of the inability of post-WWI democracies to establish their footings.  Yet, he takes a more sensitive view of these regimes than one might imagine, noting that Hitler's New Order found early advocates beyond Germany, and the Soviet system brought initial successes with it in Eastern Europe.  But, Hitler's racial view of nationalism, and Stalinism's rigid adherence to a centralized economy ultimately brought their downfalls.<br /><br />Mazower covers a lot of ground, and doesn't present anything new, but he does put the tumultuous 20th century in perspective.  He avoids staking out an ideological viewpoint, criticizing Thatcherism with equal vigor as he did Stalinism, as both failed to recognize the will of the people in their attempts at reforming their national economies. In the end, it is social democracy that prevails, albeit of a surprisingly apolitical tone that has taken a detached view to events such as the war in Yugoslavia, and the attempts to create a stronger European Union.  As Mazower noted, it is goods not dogma that people want.	2004-07-29
US	51394793	R15E040RSPMXDB	0142004235	974134151	East of Eden, John Steinbeck Centennial Edition	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Thou Will Overcome this Novel	Steinbeck took his turn at the Cain and Abel story, turning it into a towering epic of the westward journey of Americans to the promised land of California.  The book is richly detailed, and certainly Steinbeck's most ambitious effort, but ultimately fails to deliver on its central theme.  The book is a continuous battle between opposing forces, beginning with the Civil War and ending with land development and the railroad system in California. Caught in the middle of this sprawling epic is a pair of brothers, who find themselves living out an eternal grudge match. The supporting characters are the most interesting in this novel, such as the Chinese cook who becomes so involved in the story of Cain and Abel that he pursues the topic with his elders in San Francisco's China Town, and even searches out a direct Hebrew translation to resolve the meaning of the parable.  He finds that the intended word was \\"may\\" and not \\"shall\\" overcome sin, thereby reaffirming man's free will. But, for the most part this is a heavy handed novel, falling short of Steinbeck's better novels, \\"In Dubious Battle\\" and \\"The Winter of Our Discontent.\\"	2004-07-07
US	51394793	R3F43A8PGKXLG4	0743262174	59017278	Cry, the Beloved Country	Books	3	11	15	N	N	White Man's Burden	Alan Paton certainly had his heart in the right place but couldn't disguise his paternalistic feelings of the plight of the native South African, bringing down what was otherwise a good novel.  While Paton recognized the vast injustices being committed in his nation, he failed to recognize the ability of the African to address these concerns.  Instead, he created dramatic contrasts between the rural countryside and the City of Gold, Johannesburg, which drew these rural natives into its teeming midst, only to find pain and heartache.  In this case it is a father looking for his son, Absalom, only to find that his son has killed a white man. The book resonates with Biblical allusions, taking on the form of a parable, but Paton did not explore the complexities of the situations he created too deeply.  He used them more for effect.  This is what is most disconcerting about the novel, as it seemed aimed more at a liberal white reader, forcing him to identify with one of his own in the victim he created in Arthur Jarvis.<br />While Paton struggled admirably to get into the mind of Stephen Kumalo, the berieved father of the son who was an accomplice in the murder of Jarvis, Kumalo is forced to turn to a benevolent white lawyer to represent his son in court.  This relationship reinforced Paton view that utimately it was the white man who would save the black man by attacking his own system of government.  While this served as an indictment, of sorts, against the apartheid system, it had a hollow ring to it, not taking into account the vast number of protests and other forms of non-violent demonstrations Black, Coloured and Indian South Africans held in defiance of apartheid laws.  Instead, Paton reduced apartheid South African to the most simplistic of terms, unable, it seemed, the understand, or at least come to terms with, the number of gradients in the system.<br />Still, it is a moving novel, especially when Paton deals with what he understands most, the anguish of the conscientious white man in reconciling himself with a corrupt system of government.  This is seen mostly through James Jarvis, whose son was murdered by Stephen Kumalo's son.  One gets the sense that Paton put a lot of himself into Jarvis.conscientious white man in reconciling himself with a corrupt system of government.  This is seen mostly through James Jarvis, whose son was murdered by Stephen Kumalo's son.  One gets the sense that Paton put a lot of himself into Jarvis.	2004-07-07
US	51394793	RDHAY01XJPLAC	0143035002	176699089	Anna Karenina	Books	5	15	17	N	N	The greatest romance of them all.	Who would have thought this novel would soar to the top of the amazon charts?  Certainly not the translators, Pevear and Volokhonsky, who were shocked to hear their edition had been selected for Oprah's Book Club.  It is great boon for them and the novel as well, which might be regarded as the godmother of the modern romance novel. Tolstoy weaves a magic web, bringing together dysfunctional aristocratic families in perhaps the most memorable Russian novel. <br />This translation brings the story to life for the non-Russian speaker.  Pevear and Volokhonsky have made a habit out of translating Russian novels, from Gogol to Dostoevsky, and now are even tackling Tolstoy's epic work, War and Peace.  The language is modern yet true to the Russian original, thanks in large part to Ms. Volokhonsky who is a native Russian speaker.<br />The story itself has been told so many times before that it doesn't need repeating. But for those who would like a little more insight into the novel, I would suggest reading Nabokov's chapter on Anna Karenina in his Lectures on Russian Literature, as he provides many valuable references over and above those provided by Pevear and Volokhonsky.	2004-07-06
US	51394793	RR3ER1CES1B21	0415285801	273032432	The Baltic States: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania (Postcommunist States and Nations)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The Baltics in the 20th century	This book will help you to better understand Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, which have remarkably different personalities, although often collectively referred to as the Baltics. The countries are treated separately, as they deserve to be, illustrating their individual ambitions, which are often at odds to each other.<br />I was very impressed with Thomas Lane's scholarly but easily accessible account of Lithuania. In it he gives one of the most balanced appraisals of the country which I've read, taking it up to 1997 with the election of Valdas Adamkus. He charts Lithuania from its post WWI independence to its post Soviet independence, noting its tremendous resiliency in the face of two totalitarian regimes -- the Soviet Union and Germany.  The country had a difficult time carving out its niche in the 1920's, battling Poland as well in staking out its independence, only to lose Vilnius to Poland's overextending claims. Lane gives special attention to this inter-war period, as it served as the inspiration for Lithuania's post-Soviet independence in 1991.<br />He recounts Lithuania's uneasy relationship with Germany and its role in the Holocaust, but is very careful in assessing blame. Lithuania quite literally found itself between a rock and a hard place, falling victim to the Soviet Union in the end.  Lane provides a detailed study of the Soviet era and the impact it had on Lithuania's agrarian economy. Through this period, Lithuania still managed to retain its identity despite the prevailing Soviet influence.<br />Lane covers the key events of the 80's which led to independence, and the difficulties Lithuania faced in the 90's as it tried to distance itself from Moscow. He provides an excellent appraisal of the various political parties and the affect the rural vote still has on the outcome of the elections.  Although Lithuania was still struggling to form a market economy by the time Lane concludes his account in the late 90's, the country has since enjoyed an economic boom, with the highest growth rate in Eastern Europe.<br />There is also a fine appraisal of Lithuania's current foreign policy and its ability to form key European alliances in the 90's, which it had been unable to do in the 20's. It no longer has a heavy reliance on Russia, having become an integral part of the European economy.onomic boom, with the highest growth rate in Eastern Europe.<br />There is also a fine appraisal of Lithuania's current foreign policy and its ability to form key European alliances in the 90's, which it had been unable to do in the 20's. It no longer has a heavy reliance on Russia, having become an integral part of the European economy.	2004-07-05
US	51394793	R1V2ZVK5MS85MI	0684873249	581985231	Kingdom of Fear: Loathsome Secrets of a Star-Crossed Child in the Final Days of the American Century	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Troubled thoughts and ruminations along the Proud Highway.	Hunter Thompson takes stock in his tumultuous life and assesses the current situation in America in a very aptly titled book.  At its best, Kingdom of Fear evokes the glory days of Thompson.  At its worst, it wallows in some rather pitiful encounters which may have been better left unsaid, such as his flirtation with an 8-year-old Xania.<br />Thompson launches into the current administration, as it inflicts its reign of terror on the civil liberties in this country.  He recalls his bouts with the law, in particular a sordid case involving a former porn queen who takes him to court for allegedly abusing her at his home in Aspen.  While he managed to survive these battles, he doesn't hold out much hope for the future because of the notorious Patriot Act.<br />But, his thoughts range far and wide, taking in his early years in Louisville and the proud highway to his remote home in Aspen, which he currently finds under seige from unscrupulous developers and former porn queens bent on ruining his mostly peaceful life. There is plenty of dark humor and pithy insights into the loathsome nature of the American dream.  It is a very uneven book, but then that is what I have come to expect from Thompson, who hasn't been able to repeat his past great efforts such as Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas and Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '72.	2004-06-09
US	51394793	R1L1I0B0UY977V	3822830704	377714389	Content	Books	3	14	18	N	N	Hip and Cheap but not much Content	For those used to Koolhaas' fun and games, you will enjoy pouring over his latest catalog of ideas.  It has the look and feel of a thick magazine moreso than a book, packed with an astonishing range of project, op-ed pieces and cuttings from the chaotic world we live in.  But, for those new to Koolhaas, you may want to check out Delirious New York or S,M,L,XL first.<br />This book has a sharper political content to it but the cover is little more than a hook.  There are some good articles to pour over such as &quot;Re-Learning from Las Vegas,&quot; in which Koolhaas interviews Robert Venturi and Denise Scott-Brown. The cover story seems to be &quot;Violence against Architecture,&quot; in which Bill Millard offers &quot;tales from the front lines of the war on the city.&quot;  Koolhaas can't resist promoting himself, noting his Projects on the City, and re-exploring Lagos and Beijing.  He also showcases the Seattle Public Library and some of the newest projects he has on the boards.  There are his usual witty allusions such as &quot;Miestakes&quot; and &quot;Big Vermeer,&quot; but for the most part this book seems to be a celebration of the urban chaos that has resulted in recent years, thanks in large part to globalization.  Unfortunately, there isn't a very sharp focus.  Most of the images are just eye candy and the articles don't have much weight to them.  Still, you can't beat the price and there is plenty to look at.	2004-05-20
US	51394793	R3SHXIV4U9PT3L	0195140648	876233921	The New Terrorism: Fanaticism and the Arms of Mass Destruction	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Stops short of 911	This book is little more than a rehash of high-profile terrorist attacks in the 20th century with very little insight into the forces that inspired them.  Mr. Laqueur covers the gambit from the far right to the far left, with some discussion of the American &quot;survivalists&quot; and the &quot;eco-freaks&quot; that will go to any length to drive their points home.  Laqueur seems more comfortable dealing with the Far Right extremists, as his research seems to be strongest in this regard.  He seems on shaky ground when dealing with environmentalist terrorism, unsure of the various splinter groups that have adopted extreme actions in recent years.<br />His digressions into the literature that may have inspired such groups seem absurd at times, talking about James Bond supervillains and noting Edward Abbey's The Monkey Wrench Gang, which was a dark comedy on environmental terrorism.  However, he discusses more pertinent books such as The Turner Diaries, which supposedly inspired Timothy McVeigh in attacking the Federal Building in Oklahoma City.<br />Probably the best chapter is Terrorism and History.  Again, there is nothing new but he provides a good encapsulation of terrorism down through the centuries, noting the historic origins of suicide bombings which have sadly become the favored tactics of extreme Islamicists today. He ends by delving into the apocalyptic potential of terrorists should they get their hands on nuclear, chemical or biological weapons of mass destruction, but there is nothing very solid here.  More of the doomsday scenarios we have grown accustomed to.<br />What I found sorely lacking was any attempt to deal with the political conditions that have given rise to the current wave of terrorism, such as the United States' and Britain's overextending foreign policy.  Instead, the book is really nothing more than a collection of newspaper stories that will provide the reader with a general survey of terrorism and its threat to American foreign policy.cy.	2004-05-11
US	51394793	R2UA435ESINEV	0743260244	924900643	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	4	10	19	N	Y	A relatively unbiased review of America's national security	If anyone is in the position to give the discerning reader a review of the national security policies of the past four presidential administrations it is Richard Clarke, who worked under each of these presidents.  His closest relationship was with Clinton, who Clarke felt was the first president to recognize the full potential of al Qaeda and set up a homeland security program to respond to it.  Additionally, Clarke notes, Clinton saw the devastating potential of al Qaeda in Bosnia, after it had effectively helped bring the Taliban to power in Afghanistan, and he did everything in his power to stop al Qaeda from determining the government of the war-torn country.<br />This book counters many of the prevailing conservative arguments that Clinton was asleep at the wheel.  Far from it, Clarke states, Clinton was very active in regard to combatting terrorism both at home and abroad.  Unfortunately, the scope of the terrorist activities was so broad that it was virtually impossible for Clinton to address all the weaknesses in our national security system.  Clarke is at home in describing the make-up of the national security system, the extent to which his department was tracking Usama bin Laden and other suspected terrorist leaders, and helping to organize a better net of security services for high profile events such as the 1996 Atlanta Olympics.<br />However, Clarke opts for some pretty heavy handed approaches when it comes to responding to terrorists abroad, favoring punitive strikes on supposed bases in retaliation to strikes against the US.  He was sharply critical of Reagan for not responding to the attack on a US marine base in Beirut that resulted in the deaths of over 200 American soldiers.  Clarke felt that Reagan and H.W. Bush did not put a high priority on terrorism in their foreign policies, and that W. Bush pretty much adopted the same line until the fateful 911 attack.  However, Clarke felt that W. Bush incorrectly shifted the focus from Afghanistan, Iran, and Syria to Iraq following the attack, essentially letting bin Laden go when he had the chance to apprehend him and other key members of al Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan.<br />The book is well written, covers a lot of ground, and provides perhaps the most accurate appraisal of our national security to date.  Clarke gives high marks to Clinton for making terrorism a high priority in American foreign policy.and Syria to Iraq following the attack, essentially letting bin Laden go when he had the chance to apprehend him and other key members of al Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan.  <br />The book is well written, covers a lot of ground, and provides perhaps the most accurate appraisal of our national security to date.  Clarke gives high marks to Clinton for making terrorism a high priority in American foreign policy.	2004-05-05
US	51394793	R2IQXY10G5BM3H	0316353000	632813371	Natural Capitalism: Creating the Next Industrial Revolution	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A new lease on life	Paul Hawken and the Lovins have teamed up to provide one of the best overall books on &quot;Natural Capitalism&quot; which offers a whole new approach to the way in which we do business.  For too long we have taken natural capital for granted, squandering our natural resources and unleashing an unhealthy array of by-products which have further contaminated our world.  It is time to add natural capital to the ledger sheets, properly balancing our record books.  But, far from being a screed the book is meticulously researched with extensive notes and references to help guide your own research into the subject.<br />Everything from the Toyota Production System, which offered a leaner, much less wasteful approach to auto manufacturing, to the Hypercar which offers a hybrid-electric propulsion engine which would result in much greater fuel effeciency are illustrated.  It is this lean thinking which the authors think will revolutionize the industrial sector, making for the greatest breakthroughs since the microchip revolution.<br />What is most heartening is that major companies such as Ford Motor Company and Carrier Air Conditioning are adopting these practices and making them work. They are doing so because it saves money and provides them with endless growth possibilities.  The authors support the lease-use system which puts the onus on the manufacturer to produce better products and maintain them throughout their service to the user, the so called &quot;cradle to cradle&quot; concept.  New materials are resulting in much lighter and more efficient components that would reduce our dependency on foreign oil, and in time phase out petroleum products all together.<br />Too good to be true you might say, but this is the shape of things to come once we get past the tired old dogmas that have greatly limited our economic potential.  The authors show how regressive tax policies and federal subsidies have greatly handicapped our productivity and  they encourage political leaders to rethink the way we hand out incentives for better business practice.  This book will give you a whole new lease on life, and encourage you to rethink the way you live.rs to rethink the way we hand out incentives for better business practice.  This book will give you a whole new lease on life, and encourage you to rethink the way you live.	2004-04-29
US	51394793	R2I7TDXFB0Z7MX	0895260743	350381184	Losing Bin Laden: How Bill Clinton's Failures Unleashed Global Terror	Books	1	57	90	N	N	Shooting blanks	Really incredible that these types of books find their way into print and even manage to get accolades from Forbes and Novak.  I would have thought they would have known better.  While Bin Laden has been around awhile, he was working principally in Afghanistan, Sudan and other war-torn states, hoping to put in place his brand of fundamentalist Islam.  As Clarke noted in Against All Enemies, al Qaeda was at work in Bosnia as well, which Clinton recognized and did everything in his power to keep out of the political make-up of the new country.  Clinton was the first president to recognize the full potential of al Qaeda and established a team of trusted counter-terrorism experts to gain a deeper understanding of this militant group.  Reagan and H.W. Bush had done little to combat terrorism, viewing it as a nuissance rather than a foreign policy concern.  George W. Bush essentially took the same approach when he assumed office in January, 2001.  Books like this shed no light on the subject of terrorism, but rather choose to deflect attention away from what has been a appalling record by the current Bush administration to combat terrorism. They're the ones who let bin Laden get away when they supposedly had him in their sights during the Afghan War.	2004-04-28
US	51394793	R2VECNZ7VWZ7R3	0141013540	432064220	Time Out Film Guide, 12th Edition	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Simply the best film guide available!	When it comes to film guides, Time Out can't be beat.  It is by far the most comprehensive guide on the shelves and has been handsomely repackaged to include &quot;cinefiles&quot; on landmark movies down through the years.  It covers not only anglo but many foreign language films as well.  While other guides tend to focus on American, Canadian and British productions, Time Out will help you find a broad range of Russian, Indian, French, German, Italian, and Japanese films as well. You will even find such esoteric titles as Freedom (Laisve) by Sarunas Bartas.  Imagine that!  It breaks the films down in the appendices by categories, making it easier to track down movies whose titles have eluded you.  In addition, it has extensive actors and directors indices to further narrow your search.  It not only includes past Oscar winners, but those of the British Academy, Cannes, Berlin and Venice as well.  The short reviews are well written with an extensive list of contributors.  There is even a guide to help you build the ultimate DVD collection. Enjoy!	2004-04-16
US	51394793	R25WUUF9Y3CBW9	0876855575	954748344	Ham On Rye	Books	3	4	11	N	N	Unnecessary	I have to say I was a bit disappointed with Bukowski's autobiography.  It lacked the humor and immediacy of his other writings.  Not sure why he felt the need to lay out his life in such explicit terms, especially since his books generally tend to be autobiographical. He is at his best in books like Post Office, which have a James Thurber quality, albeit a bit raunchier in his take on life.  Still, it is his poetry and short stories that stand out.  Bukowski had a way of capturing those odd moments like no one else, even when delving into the seemier aspects of his life.  But that ability was sorely lacking in this book.	2004-04-16
US	51394793	R3TQ01AZC3ROUW	0886879108	839139642	The World Almanac and Book of Facts 2004	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	No home should be without one	This is my favorite almanac.  It is compact, easy to use, with well organized information.  I think it is more complete than other almanacs, offering extensive coverage of the US Presidents, elections, and a state by state breakdown of Presidential elections since 1952, even going so far as a county by county breakdown in the hotly contested 2000 election.  It has excellent sports coverage, as well as arts and entertainment.  It presents the US Constitution in its entirety, along with brief synopses of landmark Supreme Court Decisions.  This almanac also provides a short history of the National Anthem and the contentious Pledge of Allegiance, which had &quot;under God&quot; amended to it in 1954. It is packed with other vital information such as a breakdown of membership of religious groups in the US, the location of these religious groups headquarters, and a record of Easter Sundays up to 2100, so that you can plan ahead for this ever-shifting holiday. There is a very good section on health and nutrition, including dietary requirements for children and other salient information on how to better maintain your health.  And, there is a comprehensive section on the nations of the world, including many timely statistics that will clue you into the demographics of the vast multitude of people.  In short, everything you need to know to keep abreast if this ever-changing world we live in, as well as help you solve the NY Times crossword puzzle.	2004-04-16
US	51394793	R3IYI11VSHDDID	0671027271	186869324	The Merck Manual Of Medical Information (Merck Manual of Medical Information, Home Ed.)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Comprehensive in easy to understand language	This is the most comprehensive guide to health related issues available on the market.  There is a more authorative edition of the Merck Manual, but at 1700 pages this edition will keep you occupied.  It covers the broad range of illnesses with handy diagnoses.  But, what I like most is the children's section, which not only fills you on all the ailments that plague little ones, but the vast array of problems that can occur during pregnancy.  While much of this information may provide more anxiety than assurance, it is worth knowing, especially if going through the experience of child birth for the first time.  The children's section also has good information on health and nutrition. It quite literally covers the gamut of health related issues and no home should be without it. But, don't get carried away with self-diagnoses  It can be frightening!	2004-04-16
US	51394793	R3NHH1POFC5LIS	0140270159	831044384	Hamilton's Blessing: The Extraordinary Life and Times of Our National Debt	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An insightful look into the making of the national debt	I tip my hat to Mr. Gordon for providing a compelling short history of national debt, and how it has been shaped by tariffs, taxation and ever-increasing spending that has run amok in recent decades.  It is a fascinating study into the competing visions of fiscal responsibility, notably the balanced budget extolled by Jeffersonians, which has actually been achieved on numerous occasions, versus deficit spending espoused by Hamiltonians, and of which John Maynard Keynes became the leading exponent in the inter-wars years between WWI and WWII.<br />While debts traditionally run high during wars, Gordon notes that since WWII, the yearly budget has rarely been balanced.  It is during this time that Keynesian theory took hold and in Gordon's view led to a budget deficit that quickly spun out of control as entitlement programs took up fully three-quarters of the yearly budget.  These programs have been virtually untouchable, but in 1995 (the point to which Gordon takes his history) a new reckoning emerged with the Republican landslide in Congress.  Bill Clinton duly responded by proposing a balanced budget.<br />Gordon is a fiscal conservative, but recognizes the need to run in the red during hard economic times. He notes that this was  Hoover's mistake at the onset of the Great Depression, as he continued to push for a balanced budget despite warnings that it would make the recession worse. However, the federal deficit, which has mushroomed to over $5 trillion, threatens to bankrupt many of the entitlement programs including social security.	2004-04-15
US	51394793	R3SUDG4RI9XE5S	0446313645	777201587	Fear and Loathing: On the Campaign Trail '72	Books	5	16	21	N	N	On the trail of McGovern	For all his gonzo journalism, Thompson has a very keen eye for politics, even if he backed McGovern in '72.  This is a very engaging and very insightful study of the McGovern campaign and how, in Thompson's mind, it was the only hope in the miasma of politics at the time.  He is unsparing on McGovern's opponents, particularly Humphrey, but saved his scorn for Nixon, whom the Democrats were desperately hoping to unseat.  One of the most memorable scenes in the book (whether real or imagined) is when Thompson was called up to talk sports with the President himself on Air Force One.  For a moment, Thompson puts down his guard, to engage in Nixon's favorite pastime, football.  What you get is a heady mix of politics and humor as only the Grandmaster of Gonzo Journalism can give.  The book remains unsurpassed in its candid view of a presidential political campaign.	2004-04-13
US	51394793	R9VYM8EVI09MS	0300098243	365419541	The Strange Death of American Liberalism	Books	3	12	18	N	N	Liberalism and Big Government	Brands attaches liberalism to big government like most conservatives, yet notes repeatedly how conservatives have embraced big government when the times suited them.  The book is less an autopsy on liberalism than it is a study how big government has evolved, gathering mass like a snowball until it became a behemoth no one wanted to claim responsibility for.<br />He notes how the growth in big government has corresponded with each of the major wars, dating back to the American Revolution, but once the wars were over a skeptical public generally demanded that government be reduced.  Not so after WWII, when Truman initiated the Cold War which stretched nearly 40 years and saw the most substantial growth in liberal policy, which Brands attached almost exclusively to the dawn of the Nuclear Age.  What began as the Truman Doctrine was expanded under successive presidents, including Eisenhower, which saw sweeping reforms in domestic policy more or less tied to national security interests.  I think Brands stretches the connection a bit too far, but he makes many salient points as to how Cold War ideology and Liberalism were intertwined, most notably in the Kennedy-Johnson years.<br />Many of the federal programs became institutionalized, such as welfare and social security, reaching the status of sacred cows that later conservative presidents were afraid to touch.  But all that came crashing down with the collapse of the Cold War, which Brands noted began with our withdrawal from Vietnam.  Even when Reagan tried to revive the Cold War in the 80's, he found little support among the electorate or in Congress. Instead, Reagan focused on delimiting the domestic policies of the federal government by reducing the tax base which supported them.  Yet, the Reagan years saw a soaring of the federal deficit, as he continued to pour money into National Defense, and was unable to get all the cuts he sought in domestic spending.<br />While this book provides an interesting recap of the growth of big government, it offers very little into the contemporary liberal ideology beyond the Cold War paradigm.  Brands sees these two as inextricably intertwined, and I think here is where his argument unravels as he tries to tie too many loose strings together in what is a rather short book on the subject.e growth of big government, it offers very little into the contemporary liberal ideology beyond the Cold War paradigm.  Brands sees these two as inextricably intertwined, and I think here is where his argument unravels as he tries to tie too many loose strings together in what is a rather short book on the subject.	2004-04-12
US	51394793	R3I3S9BRMKHP7S	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Not his best effort	While Moore tosses out the zingers one has come to expect in his books, this one fails to build a very strong argument against Dubya and the crony capitalist world he comes from.  I sensed alot of anger in this book, but very little humor, as Moore vented his rage against the machine one more time.  However, he does bring to light many dubious features of our runaway capitalist economy such as the &quot;Dead Peasants Insurance&quot; many corporations take out on their employees.  Shades of Gogol as these companies collect on life insurance premiums, unbeknown to the unlucky stiff, after the employee has kicked the bucket.  However, I think Moore has gone over the edge when he presumes the voice of God in his condemnation of Dubya's presumed messianic role in saving America from those who would seek to destroy it.<br />Moore is no longer the lone voice in the forest as Dubya has spawned a virtual book industry around him, pro and con.  This has to be the most written up presiding president in history.  I don't think even Kennedy garnered this much attention while he was alive.  I think it would have behooved Moore to have taken more time in piecing together this book, presenting a stronger argument, rather than simply building on his infamous Oscar speech.	2004-04-10
US	51394793	R1AD7ALS8J46RZ	3211837353	632317728	Architecture in Vienna 1850-1930: New Objectivity	Books	3	6	6	N	N	An expensive guidebook	The book sticks to its dates with the focus on the Secessionist architects of the turn of the century.  It provides thumbnail photographs and short descriptions of 100 buildings, along with their locations in Vienna.  It is a bit overpriced for what is essentially a guidebook.  There are no plans or detail drawings to add to your understanding of these buildings and the Werkbundsiedlung is briefly described at the end of the book with a handful of photos but no map of the layout of the housing project built in the early 1930's.  It is fine if you are heading to Vienna and want to look these buildings up, but if you are interested in a more in-depth survey of the Vienna Secession or the later Modern buildings then I would suggest to look elsewhere.	2004-04-08
US	51394793	R23ZQ37NIFUBTL	0789495759	809247484	Vienna (Eyewitness Travel Guides)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A bird's eye view of Vienna	As helpful and user-friendly as one has come to expect from DK Guides, this book on Vienna will help you track down key buildings such as the Hundertwasser Haus, the best coffeehouses such as the Cafe Sperl, and some interesting out-of-the-way places such as the Werkbundsiedlung that will make your trip more enjoyable. It also maps out the underground metro system and gives you an outline of the extensive trolley bus service.  Of course, these guides are always subject to changes when it comes to hotels, restaurants, theaters and museum times, so one should check out the DK website for the latest updates.  The maps key you into the districts of Vienna with beautiful illustrations, such as impressive cut-away sections of Stephansdom and other major buildings, along with photos of the buildings and quarters which comprise this great city.  The guide also fills you in on the important dates and history of the city down through the ages to clue you into the meaning of the sites.  It does lack a good overall map of the city, but these are easily available in Vienna.  Best of all, you have a very nice way to recap your trip when you get home.	2004-04-07
US	51394793	R35ETN6HYBBLZX	0425194329	633242070	W: Revenge of the Bush Dynasty	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Where's the beef?	Mitchell chooses to focus on the early years of Dubya, bringing him up as one would in a full length biography from his boyhood years to his formative years in the oil business and stumping for his father's political campaigns.  She seems to have an overall favorable impression of Dubya, although she points out the various indescretions along the way, including his fraternity days at Yale.<br />I suppose this information is helpful to those who want to get a more familiar picture of Dubya, but my interest was in his political aspirations, his first bid for a US Representative seat from Texas (1978) and his successful bid for Governor of Texas (1994).  Mitchell gives this period suprisingly short shrift. She also brushes over his oil ventures and the partnership he helped form to buy the Texas Rangers. She is critical of the leading role he assumed in the baseball partnership, and in the Presidential campaigns of his father, but in both cases gives him the benefit of the doubt.<br />She builds up the relationship between father and son and how Dubya more or less patterned his life after his father, achieving success only after his father had failed in his re-election bid.  She notes how Dubya was the natural-born campaigner, able to reach out to the people where his father wasn't, and how his re-affirmation in the church helped him to gain this constituency.  Unfortunately, there isn't a lot of meat to this book, it capitalized on the attention Bush got after seizing the White House. There have been much more thorough books written since this publication.	2004-04-07
US	51394793	RHXUAQTVA71FF	0670032646	621157776	American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush	Books	4	12	16	N	Y	More of a legacy than a dynasty.	I don't know how devastating this book is.  Phillips fails to pin anything directly on the Bushes, but rather compiles an impressive array of circumstantial evidence to point to a shady past that goes back four generations in the so-called \\"Bush Dynasty.\\"<br />The book has been well researched and will provide plenty of fodder in this election campaign.  Phillips charts the numerous ties the Bush family has had with the military-industrial complex over the last 80 years, and its links to the various military intelligence services during this time, culminating in the CIA. This book raises a lot of doubt as to the supposed candor of father and son who, as Phillips has illustrated, have done a pretty good job of re-inventing themselves over the year.<br />Phillips explored the Religious Right in depth, calling into question the sincerity of Dubya's convictions.  Phillips seems to view Dubya's re-christening in the church as a calculated move to bring him closer to the Texas electorate, which is probably the most religiously conservative state in the country.  Billy Graham, who is credited with showing Dubya the light, has a long history in the Republican Party dating back to Eisenhower.<br />But, where this book suffers is in Phillips' attempt to make a case for a Bush Dynasty.  While it is unprecedented to have a son follow so closely on the heels of his father into the White House (the Adamses were separated by 24 years, and a much changed American society), it hardly bespeaks a dynasty.  But, Phillips continually presses this point, fearing that dynastic politics will be the ruin of our Republic.	2004-03-14
US	51394793	R35VKB5WPFMZYE	0714838721	264560688	Lost Masterpieces (Architecture 3s)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Stunning memorials to the Industrial Revolution	This collection is worth it for the Crystal Palace alone, the great icon of the Industrial Revolution.  The old engravings, photos and exquisite construction details allow you to finally get a sense of this great exposition hall, which was the first of its kind.  The text provides a valuable background to Joseph Paxton and the era which saw many innovative changes in materials and construction methods.<br />But, that's not all, there are two more lost buildings that were instrumental in the development of the modern metal-frame building: the Palais des Machines and the Pennsylvania Station.  The first was a daring display of ribbed metal trusses, spanning an enormous distance.  Aesthetically, it is a more appealling building than the Crystal Palace as it has the character of the Art Nouveau era with its graceful curves and elegant details.  The space is enormous with many wonderful period photos and evocative renderings of the ornamental details.  But, again it is the construction details that will grab you as they show you the extent to which this building was impeccably detailed.<br />The Pennsylvania Station is one of the sad stories in American architectural history.  One of the key works of McKim, Mead and White, it was torn down for no reason at all.  It is a tour-de-force in Beaux-Artst design, but underneath it was a steel superstructure that brought together the ideas of Paxton and Ferdinand Dutert.  It is not as nicely detailed in terms of drawings as are the first two buildings in this collection, but one is still able to sense its former grandeur.	2004-02-25
US	51394793	R1BEV6YOTREEAB	0714838756	101570022	Arts & Crafts Houses I (Architecture 3s) (v. 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The origins of the Arts and Crafts movement	These are three of the major works of the Arts and Crafts Movement beginning with the fabulous Red House which brought together many of William Morris' ideas in shaping this movement.  Philip Webb worked with Morris to create this resplendent design, inspired by the earlier neo-Gothic movement, but pointing the direction to a new architecture.  There are many fine color photos as well as key details of the house that give you a very good impression of this seminal work in the English Freestyle.<br />Lethaby and Lutyens carried the movement forward.  They, along with C.F.A. Voysey, were the leading figures in the Arts and Crafts Movement, and shown here are their key works.  The Melsetter House is a tour-de-force, stripped of most of the Neo-Gothic trappings, this house offers a more refined version of the English Manor House of the late 19th century.  The site plan shows the beautiful configuration that Lethaby came up with to anchor the house on the large site with its radiating gardens.  There are many beautifully detailed drawings, including molding profiles of the enormous fireplaces, which graced this mansion.  But probably the most evocative photos and drawings are those of the chapel which was an extension of the main house.<br />Lutyens was a very eclectic architect, drawing on many classical themes as well as Neo-Gothic themes.  Goddards represents a closer adherance to the Arts and Crafts Style, but in the introduction the author gives the reader a wide sampling of Lutyens' style.  Goddards has elements of timber architecture and is more earthy in its appearance.  The skewed wings open up the courtyard to the countryside beyond, and Lutyen's richly detailed chimneys rise as strong tower elements in the otherwise horizontal house.  Lots of wonderful sections and detail drawings to give the reader a full impression of this manor house.	2004-02-25
US	51394793	RVAMI2UCEY60V	0897331532	328127871	Design for the Real World: Human Ecology and Social Change	Books	5	35	36	N	N	An inspiring book on environmental design	I first heard a lecture by Victor Papanek about 20 years ago, shortly before this revised edition was released.  He was a very impressive speaker, drawing from a seemingly bottomless well of ecological design ideas.  His work has taken him far and wide and in the process allowed him to revamp many of his views on environmental design.  This book is an extensively updated version of his seminal book on the subject.  It has become a bit dated in the 20 years since its release, especially in regard to computer software design.  But, most of the material he covers is still relavent to the present, as we have only begun to scratch the surface of sound ecological ideas.<br />Having read the more recent books on ecological design by Sim Van Der Ryn and William McDonough, I was surprised to see that neither mentioned Papanek, who prefigured many of the ideas they present in their current books.  Papanek long ago advocated the lease/use principle, which makes much more sense in a rapidly changing technological world than does the buy/own principle that continues to dominate our social thinking.  Papanek notes the many cultural and psychological blocks we have created for ourselves when it comes to ecological design, but also illustrates how we can overcome these blocks with methods such as bisociation, first proposed by Arthur Koestler.  But, what really makes this book stand out are the great number of illustrations that Papanek uses to demonstrate his ideas.  This is one of the most practical books written on environmental design.<br />While Papanek was an industrial designer, his ideas are equally germaine to the field of architecture and biology.  He advocated a multi-disciplinary approach, feeling that our universities had become too compartimentalized and were stifling creativity, which needs cross-pollination in order to thrive.  The book is as inpiring as his lectures.  Papanek challenges the reader to explore new avenues, not continue to follow the status quo, which only results in creative dead-ends.only results in creative dead-ends.	2004-02-22
US	51394793	R2UN9YEOIRL281	0865475873	28074004	Cradle to Cradle: Remaking the Way We Make Things	Books	3	25	32	N	Y	Don't judge a book by its cover	The most compelling aspect of this book is the fact that it is a Durabook, printed on recyclable plastic &quot;paper&quot; that saves trees and results in waterproof pages so that you can quite literally take this book anywhere you go.  It is too bad McDonough and Braungart didn't give as much attention to their narrative, which reads as a blatant piece of self-promotion.<br />The authors have established a good reputation for themselves in recent years, successfully promoting their green ideas on Ford Motor Company, Nike and other high profile companies.  But, this book woefully comes up short in terms of ideas, as it reads like a screed on green consciousness, rather than a helpful guide to gaining greater eco-awareness, especially in terms of the built environment.  I was looking for at least one demonstration of their ideas in terms of resource material, but there is none.  We are simply led to believe that McDonough and Braungart have carried out successful projects with green consciousness in mind.<br />Contrast this with books like Ecological Design by Sim Van Der Ryn and The Green Skyscraper by Ken Yeang, and you will see what I mean.  Van Der Ryn and Yeang provide vital information in terms of how they have successfully built sustainable buildings. Yeang maybe a little too heavily as he offers much in terms of raw data on his innovative high-rise buildings that readers might find tedious.  But, if you are like me, these are the books you are looking for.  Cradle to Cradle is little more than a clever advertisement for McDonough and Braungart.	2004-02-17
US	51394793	R2PYZN5K5AYFFF	0714840998	243652007	Modernism	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A stunning portrait of the Modern movement	This is a superlative tour of Modern Architecture and Design through the 20th century.  Weston, who has put together some beautiful books on Aalto, Utzon and the Modern House has really outdone himself in this remarkable book.  He looks at the overlapping patterns in art and architecture and how they came together to form a movement that overtook the hand-me-down styles of the past.<br />Appropriately enough he begins with &quot;Roots,&quot; a survey of 19th century precedents in Modern Architecture with the focus on the English Arts and Crafts Movement and how it spread throughout Europe and to America, influencing the Vienna Secessionists, the Deutscher Werkbund and Wright's Prairie School.  From there he charts the development of a new style in &quot;The Tradition of the New,&quot; influenced heavily by painterly movements such as Impressionism, Fauvism and Cubism.  A new abstraction was born that inspired such architectural movements as Futurism, de Stijl and the Bauhaus, which he develops further in &quot;Formulating the Future.&quot;  He treats the Russian avant-garde separately in &quot;Russia: The Art of Revolution,&quot; which gave modern art and architecture a revolutionary fervor and would eventually serve as the basis of the Deconstructivist camp that arose in the 1980's.  He then covers the growth of the modern movement in &quot;The International Style,&quot; effectively taking the movement up to WWII.  He closes with a summary of post-war attitudes in &quot;Triumph, Transformation and Rejection,&quot; which saw the fulfillment and eventual disillusionment of modernist ideals.<br />The book is handsomely illustrated and provides one of the best attempts to interweave art and architecture and its influences on commercial and industrial design.  It is a must for anyone looking to gain a better understanding of the impact of Modernism on comtemporary society, illustrating how Modernism shaped so many of the current patterns in design.  The narrative flows gracefully, offering a compelling overview of the movement.s gracefully, offering a compelling overview of the movement.	2004-02-11
US	51394793	R2FGFXLEDQTGUP	1594200041	518829493	The Coming of the Third Reich	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Focuses on the Weimar Republic	The first installment in a promising new series on the Third Reich by Richard Evans.  In this book, Evans examines the Weimar Republic and the many factors that led to the rise of Hitler and his populist National Socialist Party.  Far from being a foregone conclusion, Evans shows the many vacillations in German politics during this time and how for a brief while, the Weimar Republic appeared to be on the road to recovery.  However, by constantly overriding the parliament by using the Enabling Act, chancellors set the stage for eventual dictatorial rule, as Germany went through violent economic upheavals.<br />Evans does a great job of outlining the various political parties and the antagonisms that developed after WWI.  He notes the ideological origins of the Nazis in the German Nationalist Party, which refused to let go of its venerated image of Bismarck.  Evans strips the veneer off this image, to show how badly the Nationalists, and later Hiter, interpreted Bismarck.  He gives a lot of attention to the Center and Social Democratic Parties which formed the consensus in the Reichstag, and illustrates the rise of the Communist Party, which became the whipping post of Nationalists and Nazis as the threat of Soviet expansion grew.<br />Evans gives special attention to the plight of the Jews, but notes that Germany would have been the last place one would expected such a virulent form of anti-Semitism to emerge.  Jews were for the most part integrated in German life prior to WWI, and continued to enjoy a relatively unfettered life through most of the Weimar period.  But, the rise of the Nazi party in the rural regions would cast the Jew in an increasingly unfavorable light.<br />One can't but hold out hope throughout Evans' engaging narrative, as he shows how Germany struggled to hold onto representative government during the Weimar Republic, but as Hitler changed his tactics, and drew on an increasingly Populist base, he appealed to the German longing for Bismarck, especially in the wake of the Depression of 1929, when the Nazis saw their biggest gains in Parliament.  But, even till the end the Nazis failed to gain a majority, but used the Enabling Act to establish dictatorial control.pecially in the wake of the Depression of 1929, when the Nazis saw their biggest gains in Parliament.  But, even till the end the Nazis failed to gain a majority, but used the Enabling Act to establish dictatorial control.	2004-02-10
US	51394793	R2HELFUP10DQK2	1559633891	760848474	Ecological Design	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	What is sustainable design?	A new benchmark in ecological awareness.  Sym van der Ryn has long been practicing ecological design, and draws on his wealth of experience to give readers many valuable insights into this growing practice.  Van der Ryn warns readers to separate the wheat from the chaff as there are many persons claiming to be toeing the line when it comes to sustainable design, but few are actually doing it.  What is needed is a whole new approach to eco-friendly architecture and planning development, not just more band-aids.<br />The book takes a fairly general approach but there are numerous references for those really interested in pursuing the subject in more depth. He outlines his principles of ecological design which begins with gaining a better awareness of your locality, by looking into the ecological history of your community.  Who knows your street may be where a stream once flowed, and that your storm drain in all likelihood flows into your water source, so be careful what you dump into it!<br />Van der Ryn avoids the cliches and pieces together a compelling set of anecdotes and observations which will open you up the broad field of possibilities.  The book is well researched and written, with the valuable assistance of Stuart Cowan, a former student of van der Ryn.  It is imperative that we gain a better appreciation of our natural environment before adding any more to our built environment.  Sustainable design is our only future.	2004-02-09
US	51394793	R37YK12SMI9MEX	0684856573	626932926	Black Reconstruction in America, 1860-1880	Books	5	73	78	N	Y	The Crucible of Civil Rights	Du Bois took a revolutionary new look at Reconstruction in the 1930's, providing a fresh view that went largely ignored until recent books by Foner and Litwack resuscitated this overlooked period in American history.  Du Bois summons up his great intellectual bearing to illustrate that from being the unmitigated failure that Reconstruction has long been portrayed as, it was the crucible of civil rights legislation, a time when there was very definitely hope that America would redefine itself along more egalitarian lines.  While the book deals predominately with the black man's point of view, Du Bois offers a principled Marxist view of labor relations at the time, and how the leading Radical Republicans tried to come to terms with the new industrial society that was emerging in America.<br />Du Bois was a very compelling writer, he cuts through the layers of history to reveal the soul of the persons most greatly affected by Reconstruction.  He charts the troubled waters of the Civil War, and the Presidential attempts at Reconstruction which followed the Union victories in the South.  He provides a candid view of Lincoln, who struggled with his own prejudices, but eventually came to accept the black man because of the pivotal role he played in the war.  Ironically, Du Bois noted a black did not become a man until he showed he could hold a gun in battle.<br />Du Bois felt Lincoln really did alter his views during the course of the war, no longer favoring the colonist view held by many that blacks should be repatriated to Africa.  However, Du Bois felt that Lincoln lacked the convictions to really push forward Reconstruction, that his principal concern remained in reclaiming the Southern states in the Union.<br />The mighty task of Reconstruction was left up to the Radical Republicans in Congress and the &quot;Black&quot; legislatures that emerges in the South during this time.  Du Bois refutes the Dunning-Bowers view that blacks were incapable of forming governments, by providing a chapter on &quot;The Black Proletariat in South Carolina.&quot;  Here, he shows that blacks fully recognized the enormity of this most propitious moment, but that they ran up against a set of state and federal courts, which refused to hold up their decisions.  While blacks were now members of state legislatures and of the US Congress, they did not take over the South, as is often described.  Even in South Carolina, where blacks outnumbered whites, blacks were only temporarily able to seize control of the legislature, and force a new state constitution.<br />This is the book that forms the basis for Foner's excellent book, Reconstruction.  Du Bois was the first to realize that Reconstruction was more than just an epilog to the Civil War, but the beginning of the long road to freedom, which took nearly 100 years in the making for blacks in America.y providing a chapter on &quot;The Black Proletariat in South Carolina.&quot;  Here, he shows that blacks fully recognized the enormity of this most propitious moment, but that they ran up against a set of state and federal courts, which refused to hold up their decisions.  While blacks were now members of state legislatures and of the US Congress, they did not take over the South, as is often described.  Even in South Carolina, where blacks outnumbered whites, blacks were only temporarily able to seize control of the legislature, and force a new state constitution.<br />This is the book that forms the basis for Foner's excellent book, Reconstruction.  Du Bois was the first to realize that Reconstruction was more than just an epilog to the Civil War, but the beginning of the long road to freedom, which took nearly 100 years in the making for blacks in America.	2004-02-05
US	51394793	R2RJ6OYQH2OKSO	0060974680	359859252	Europe: A History	Books	5	141	148	N	N	An invaluable desk reference as well as fascinating history	This book has proven to be one of my most valuable desk references.  I wished I had bought the hardback, given the wear and tear on it over the 6 years I have had it.  Davies has done a marvelous job of condensing a tremendous amount of history into one volume. He approaches it in a three-fold way.  He provides a richly flowing narrative that covers the story of Europe much like an epic novel.  He intersperses the narrative with an extensive series of &quot;Capsules&quot; that take in special events and interesting asides in the development of a European identity.  Lastly, he provides a massive set of appendices that cover everything from royal lines to WWII death tolls.<br />The narrative is divided into a set of 12 chapters that cover broad periods of time starting with the environment and prehistory of the contintnet to the Cold War era.  Davies has a tremendous command of the events which shaped Europe. His strength lies in his understanding of Eastern Europe, and in particular Poland, expanding the breadth of the continent beyond its usual eastern borders.  In fact one might say that Davies has made the case to rethink European history along Eastern European lines, which is the logical extension of his earlier two-volume history of Poland.  He takes in Russian history, with special attention to its Slavic roots. He deals with the inevitable conflicts that arose and provides good summaries of the World Wars.  He deals with the restoration of Western Europe and the demise of Eastern Europe following WWII along ideological lines, noting how one rose at the expense of the other. He chooses to end his narrative with the collapse of the Soviet Union, providing a short epilogue on his thoughts concerning the new allignments in Europe.<br />The numerous capsules are a very interesting approach in dealing with cultural aspects of Europe.  He offers an astonishing array of anecdotes in these capsules such as the origins of Dr. Faustas to the transcendental nature of the famous war song, Lili Marlene.  Although he covers much of the cultural history of Europe in his narrative, it is in these capsules that one finds many fascinating aspects of this cultural history and how it has evolved over the century.<br />The appendices cover a lot of ground, illustruating some of the iconography of Europe, providing extensive lists of everything from the Popes and Patriarchs of Rome to a selection of the works and authors banned by the Papal Index. He provides numerous maps and charts to help guide you through the rough and tumble history of Europe, and provides accurate death tolls of the World Wars.  He also provides extensive book notes as well as an excellent index to help guide you in subsequent searches.<br />This is probably the best one-volume history of Europe available today and one that will serve you will in gaining an understanding of this rich and varied continent.  His rich prose makes it a pleasure to read and his excellent index allows for quick searches to look up key events.  A book that will find its place with all your other desk references or by your armchair for a long and enjoyable read.e famous war song, Lili Marlene.  Although he covers much of the cultural history of Europe in his narrative, it is in these capsules that one finds many fascinating aspects of this cultural history and how it has evolved over the century.<br />The appendices cover a lot of ground, illustruating some of the iconography of Europe, providing extensive lists of everything from the Popes and Patriarchs of Rome to a selection of the works and authors banned by the Papal Index. He provides numerous maps and charts to help guide you through the rough and tumble history of Europe, and provides accurate death tolls of the World Wars.  He also provides extensive book notes as well as an excellent index to help guide you in subsequent searches.<br />This is probably the best one-volume history of Europe available today and one that will serve you will in gaining an understanding of this rich and varied continent.  His rich prose makes it a pleasure to read and his excellent index allows for quick searches to look up key events.  A book that will find its place with all your other desk references or by your armchair for a long and enjoyable read.	2004-01-06
US	51394793	R1E07GO0XIXOGY	0876857632	358868458	Hollywood	Books	5	23	27	N	N	The original barfly	Bukowski's humor is razor sharp in this book ostensibly on the making of &quot;Barfly.&quot;  Bukowski was enjoying some measure of success and even respect by this point, and was approached by Schroeder to write the screenplay for a movie about himself.  Bukowski was of course flattered and took up the challenge.  His books and poetry have always been about himself in one form or another, but here was his big chance to imagine himself on screen.<br />Bukowski takes you step by step through the making of the movie, with a sardonic eye for the details.  Schroeder and his pal tried to get in touch with the lower east side of LA, which Bukowski enjoys poking fun at.  He wasn't too keen about having Mickey Roarke cast as himself, he had Sean Penn in mind, but was smitten with the idea of Faye Dunaway as his love interest.<br />The book doesn't plunge to the lower depths as do his short stories and poetry.  Bukowski keeps himself semi-detached from the subject of his early life. The book, like the movie, looks back at these formative years in a wry way that has a number of amusing twists and turns.  He ends appropriately enough with the screening of the movie, with much of the gang invited to attend, making a party of it down in front of the screen as they assessed the film.  Not bad, Bukowski concluded.	2003-12-28
US	51394793	R1CUU4ZWVIFNCV	0809084910	969747940	Stone Voices: The Search for Scotland	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Scotland's storied past	Neal Ascherson covers some of the same ground Edwin Muir did in Scottish Journeys, but brings these rambles up to date as he deals with the theme of devolution and the re-emergence of the Scottish nation.  The chapters are more a series of reflections than a discourse on Scottish history.  Ascherson moves back and forth in time, dealing with such subjects as the Stone of Destiny, which was finally returned to its ancestral home after many years in the Royal Palace, ostensibly to deny Scotland any right to royal ascension.  But, its course proves to be a very interesting one.<br />Ascherson also looks at what Scotland's re-established nationhood means to Americans, including those with rather shaky connections, such as Trent Lott, who pushed through a resolution calling for Tartan Day in the United States in recognition of the 1320 Declaratin of Arbroath.  Ascherson seems a bit puzzled why Americans would still so strongly identify themselves with Scotland, being so many generations removed.<br />He also criticized the overt Scottish nationalism which has grown in recent years, at times reaching the point of shear madness.  But, for the most part Ascherson looks at the more subtle aspects of Scottish independence, rooting them in history and mythology.  It is a very engaging book and should rekindle your interest in Scotland's storied past.	2003-12-23
US	51394793	RXIJNS7G0PK86	0375504842	549875058	On the Natural History of Destruction	Books	4	12	13	N	N	The aftermath of the War	In a series of essays, the longest of which on &quot;Air War and Literature,&quot; Sebald probes the veil Germans placed over the massive allied bombing campaign that devastated German cities.  He also looks at the Holocaust through the eyes of survivors like Jean Amery and Peter Weiss.<br />The book gets its title from a report by Solly Zuckerman, who had visited Cologne in the immediate aftermath of the war, and was overwhelmed by the devastation he saw.  Sebald, many years later, tries to sift through the various writings on the subject and sort out the most trenchant observations of the war.  But, he found this exceedingly difficult since most Germans tended to avoid the subject or treat it in overtly melodramatic tones.  But, it was in such novels as Heinrich Boll's &quot;The Silent Angel&quot; and Hermann Kasack's &quot;The City across the River,&quot; that Sebald found what he was looking for -- honest depictions of the massive bombing campaign and the impact it had on the German psyche.<br />In three additional essays, Sebald looks at writers who approached the subject. The first being Alfred Andersch, who he takes to task for his melodramatic depictions of WWII that seemed more an effort to compensate for his own shortcomings than in exploring the depths of the war.  Andersch enjoyed wide spread popularity in Germany as a writer.  Criticism tended to be muted.  Not so with Sebald, who illustrates how Andersch reinvented himself, which served as a parable of sorts for the typical German after the war.<br />Sebald then looks at the writings of Amery and Weiss, who were survivors, and struggled throughout their lives to reconcile their feelings regarding the Holocaust.  Sebald looks most closely at Amery whose writings were stripped of any heroic pretensions and gave readers an unvarnished look at the concentration camps. Weiss tried to explore the Holocaust through painting, but then turned to writing in an effort to give his experiences the full weight that bore down on his tortured soul. It is in these two essays that one sees the nexis for Sebald's more extensive book on the subject, &quot;The Emigrants.&quot;<br />The essays are loosely written.  The first was a series of lectures he presented in Zurich, and the others serve more as book reviews.  But, in them one finds much food for thought as Sebald was one of the more probing writers of our time.t bore down on his tortured soul. It is in these two essays that one sees the nexis for Sebald's more extensive book on the subject, &quot;The Emigrants.&quot;<br />The essays are loosely written.  The first was a series of lectures he presented in Zurich, and the others serve more as book reviews.  But, in them one finds much food for thought as Sebald was one of the more probing writers of our time.	2003-12-18
US	51394793	R1PHX9CK3Z4GTW	0486250237	106828763	Towards a New Architecture (Dover Architecture)	Books	5	40	46	N	N	Where it all began	Probably the most important book in Modern Architecture.  Certainly the most villified over the years, especially since the death of Le Corbusier.  In it he laid the ground work for Modern Architecture, extolling the virtues of an architecture that was the product of the machine age rather than a pastiche of historical styles.<br />Le Corbusier illustrated the principles which he felt should govern architecture, drawing from historical references such as the Parthenon, but stressing the need to come up with a new proportional system reflective of concrete construction.  He had developed the Dom-ino system by this point and had designed a few villas along these lines.  Included are wonderful sketches and models of his Citrohan House, which he hoped would be mass-produced like the automobile.  He even approached the French car maker, Citroen, in this regard.<br />He explored low-scale housing solutions based on what he called the &quot;Honeycomb&quot; principle, porous housing blocks that allowed light and air to pass through the buildings for better ventilation and more airy courtyards.  He forsaw many of the environmental concerns architecture now faces, despite the many attacks to the contrary.<br />Le Corbusier would reshape many of his ideas over time, but this book outlines his early view of architecture in the machine age, which led to the quote most often taken from this book, &quot;a house is a machine for living.&quot;  But, Le Corbusier saw it in much more human terms than his critics have.	2003-12-08
US	51394793	R17YKSLOWHA4VP	0192838997	160552858	Eugene Onegin: A Novel in Verse (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	43	44	N	N	The next best thing to Russian	James Falen has offered his version of the Russian classic, and has captured both the meaning and the verse.  The stanzas flow effortlessly in Falen's hands, it may very well be the best translation yet.  Of course, Nabokov is not around to cast his judgement on it.  He panned every other translation that had been printed and penned his own in prose, so as not to stray too far from original meaning. But, even he said it was no more than a crib, as what Puskin had achieved in Eugene Onegin was a restructuring of the Russian language, giving it a beauty few had thought it possessed.<br />Orlando Figes similarly noted that Onegin was the first truly Russian lyrical novel.  Pushkin had forsaken the standard French and sought to find the words expressive enough to convey the contradictory nature of the Russian soul.  The novel in verse ebbs and flows as Pushkin takes you from St. Petersburg to Moscow to the Russian countryside, weaving a charming tale with many fascinating asides.  The texture is so rich and the characters so enduring that this lyrical novel has attained mythological status in Russian literature.  No understanding of the subject is complete without having read Eugene Onegin.<br />But, if language is essential to understanding Onegin then any translation will ultimately come up short. However, Falen has shown great respect for the novel and its language, unlike Douglass Hofstadter's juvenile attempt to translate it.  Falen offers copious endnotes and a fascinating introduction.  He tips his hat to Nabokov and the others who have translated this novel in the past. The language Falen uses is modern, giving Onegin a freshness lacking in other translations.	2003-12-06
US	51394793	R38DPUZPAZR52L	0486234118	682393693	Concerning the Spiritual in Art	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Marvelous introduction to Kandinsky	Written in 1911, Kandinsky provides a treatise on the meaning of modern art. It is a very subjective and very compelling view of the direction art should take, avoiding the superficial pitfalls that were all so common. He provides a pithy review of Impressionist art and its role in the modern art movement.  He notes the successes and shortcomings of Picasso and Matisse as they pushed the envelope of art but weren't quite sure where they wanted to take it.<br />There is a long chapter on the meaning and importance of color, eschewing the analytical approach.  He takes a more subjective approach, noting how color and music can be viewed in similar terms.  He talks about the attempt in classical music to create chromatic scales, but Kandinsky prefers to deal with such connections more abstractly, treating color as he would the sounds of instruments, for instance comparing yellow to the blare of the trumpet.<br />There is a short biography of Kandinsky which serves as an introduction and a preface by the translator, placing Kandinsky in the pantheon of modern artists. The book is by no means exhaustive.  Kandinsky's writings have been collected into a marvelous book edited by Peter Vergo, which offers the width and breadth of this artist's vision. But, if you are looking for the short course, this is the place to go.	2003-11-26
US	51394793	RTT8DS3QZGEJ	0618125000	871859594	Pushkin's Children: Writing on Russia and Russians	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	In search of the Russian soul	Tolstaya demonstrates just how hard it is to size Russians up in a collection of book reviews and essays on the Russian character.  These stories sparkle with many telling anecdotes, drifting back and forth over time.  Pushkin has long held a dear place in the Russian heart because of his \\"inner freedom,\\" Tolstaya noted.  The unconquerable spirit that managed to survive one regime after another over the centuries.<br />Book reviews dominate this collection, from her appreciation of Robert Conquest's The Great Terror to her witty dismissal of Gail Sheehy's book on Gorbachev.  She also takes aim at Russian authors, in particular the cult that formed around Solzhenitsyn. The Russian soul is something that continually eludes authors.  Exceedingly hard to pin down as is the Russian language.<br />Jamey Gambrell worked with Tolstaya on this translation, giving it the character of her voice.  Although most of the pieces were written during the death throes of the Soviet Union, her observations are still timely and present a compelling portrait of Russia in transition.  She takes a stab at the enigmatic Vladimir Putin and the events that led up to his ascension to power. She packs into these essays more meat than many scholars do in their massive tomes on Russia. It is a voice that is both fresh and enlightening.	2003-11-26
US	51394793	R4WXRVLJM6PM7	0671892894	44177409	President Kennedy: Profile of Power	Books	5	28	30	N	N	The man behind Camelot	Reeves has quite literally stripped away the varnish that has accumulated over the years on the 1000 Days of Jack Kennedy.  He has assembled a journal of sorts, giving the reader a fast-moving account of one of America's most enigmatic presidents.  It is an interesting mixture of policy decisions, candid observations and revealing episodes that give one of the most complete pictures of President Kennedy.<br />The narrative starts a few days before the administration took office with the cabinet decisions that were being made, then guides the reader through the tumultuous inauguration ceremonies both on stage and backstage.  Reeves deals with the troubling first 100 days of the administration in a very candid way, showing the indecision of Kennedy when it came to Cuba and Berlin.  Kennedy was being pulled in all directions, putting too much faith in the CIA and dismissing the criticisms of his newly assembled cabinet.  Eventually, Kennedy found his feet and began to project the confidence that had won him the presidency.<br />Reeves provides so many telling anecdotes, especially concerning Kennedy's health, which was never very good.  This was one of the first books to reveal Kennedy's drug dependency to stave off Addison's disease and his excrutiating back pains. There is also Hugh Sidey's memorable swimming pool interview.<br />The book feels as though it were written by an aide close to Kennedy during his administration.  Reeves has assembled an impressive array of quotes and first person observations into a seamless narrative.  He has demystified the myth of Camelot, without diminishing the stature of the man.  Reeves evocatively illustrates how Kennedy was able to project power in spite of his numerous handicaps, both physical and political.	2003-11-22
US	51394793	R1DXPEE9KAZ5DP	0060995068	183009402	Ordinary Men: Reserve Police Battalion 101 and the Final Solution in Poland	Books	4	123	137	N	N	The dark side of humanity	Browning's book came as a welcome relief after trudging through much of Goldhagen's Hitler's Willing Executioners.  It is interesting that he and Goldhagen approached Battalion 101 from diametrically opposite directions.  Browning does not try to assess blame, but rather focus on the circumstances which led to the notorious killing spree of this battalion in Poland.  Well researched with some very interesting case studies, Browning illustrates how ordinary men can be made into seemingly ruthless killers.  Stalin used many of the same tactics in the Soviet Union, pitting one ethnic group against another, knowing that there would be little identification between ethnic groups in times of war.<br />Browning provides the background of the men that comprised the battalion and the early vascilation and indecision that took place before finally being used as an execution squad in the months leading up to the Final Solution.  He takes the readers through the horrific scenes, showing just how easy it was to succumb to the dictates being handed down through a long chain of command.  Browning sees it is a fault-line that runs through humanity and is not specific to any one racial or ethnic group, but is an outgrowth of the devastating conditions of war.	2003-11-18
US	51394793	RJP01LUWQL3FQ	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	2	12	15	N	N	Now available in Lithuanian	The book has now been translated into Lithuanian.  It created quite a furor when it was first released two years ago.  Lithuanians were shocked by the images Franzen presented of their country.  Most persons took them with a grain of salt. But, Sarunas Marciulonis (former basketball great) invited Franzen to the grand opening of the Forum Palace, hoping that this might disspell his notions of a Lithuania still under the dark cloud of Russian mafia connections.  However, fact is proving to be stranger than fiction as Lithuania's president now finds himself under investigation for alleged mafia connections, and this may prove to be just the tip of the iceberg.<br />I'm sure Franzen would love the irony of it, but that doesn't save his book, which struck me as a set of gross characterizations held together by a rather clumsy attempt to create verismilitude.  It seems much of what Franzen culled in the way of &quot;realistic detail&quot; came from the Internet.  Of course, as a novelist, he is free to clip and paste to his heart's desire, but I was left to wonder what was the purpose was.  Obviously he found a ready market (a bit of a shock perhaps) which he was able to cash in on.<br />Don't hear much more about Franzen these days.  I suppose the movie deal is still in the works and he has a new book out, but it has hardly generated the heat this one did, capturing what seemed to be America's dysfunctional imagination.  He certainly was able to string the reader along but be warned, there's only a chamber pot waiting for you at rainbow's end.	2003-11-17
US	51394793	R2WBDDA1KRC2I4	0679761829	509064366	Generations of Winter	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Among the ruins	Closer to Dr. Zhivago than it is War and Peace, Aksyonov tries to piece together the Stalinist era through the eyes of an extended Russian-Georgian family. The first half of the book is the most compelling as Aksyonov sets up his intriguing family and its subsequent demise as its members ran afoul of Stalin.  He is able to capture the clamp down of the Soviet state and its effect on the republics, particularly Georgia, which had managed to retain its identity under Lenin.<br />Navigating the ravaged battlefields of war proved more difficult for Aksyonov, as he tries to reassemble the scattered family.  There are many engaging scenes but as a whole the second part of the book lacks focus, and reads as a jumble of events, which may very well have been the case in the beleagured Soviet Union as it struggled through its darkest hour.<br />Aksyonov offers a ray of sunshine in the end, but for the most part this is a bleak novel, befitting the era, and the impact Stalinism had on Russian society.  The brief glimmer of a modernist utopia was all too quickly disspelled. In its place, Russians, Georgians and other ethnic groups tried to recapture their trampled identities.  This being the only thing that could guide them through the aftermath of the revolution.	2003-11-17
US	51394793	R1PTZ3PWM1IGX7	0099738813	218513537	Primary Colors: A Novel of Politics	Books	3	4	8	N	N	A pastel version of the campaign	A real disappointment.  I thought this book might offer something tantalizing on the Clinton campaign, but it failed to shed any new light on the good old boy from Arkansas. What we get is a fast-paced novel that pulls you along with some of the energy of the campaign, but tinted a bit too heavily with moral tones for my tastes. There's some good humor, and ultimately we find the all-too typical disillusionment with the campaign as Stanton/Clinton fails to measure up to the expectations of the young campaign worker.  &quot;The War Room&quot; is much more informative on the campaign, and you can't beat Carville when it comes to assessments of the campaigns.  He has to be one of the most candid campaign managers in recent years with a caustic sense of humor, which this book was lacking.	2003-11-10
US	51394793	R2G0TGZVD8GVDT	0679745203	152918541	The English Patient	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Love among the ruins	Ondaatje has a marvelous way with words but somehow the story seems a little too romantic and self-serving, given the situation in which he embeds his characters.  The story loosely revolves around Count Almasy, who was quite a different person in real life, especially in terms of his sexuality.  But, Ondaatje doesn't let such little things deter him from telling his tale.<br />Ondaatje approaches his works as an Impressionist.  The colors are muted and blended into each other to create a stunning variety of illusions which carry the reader along with their figurative charm.  The situations seem drawn largely from romance novels but are given a more earthy tone in the way he tells his stories.  He weaves together essentially two stories, with the Count as the bridge between these two worlds.  It is a way to tell of WWII on two fronts: the African front at the height of the war and the Italian front after the Americans had overwhelmed Mussolini's republic. Ondaatje uses romance to soften the effects of war with the only gritty character being Caravaggio.<br />The book translated well to film, with wonderful performances by Dafoe, Fiennes and Binoche. But, in its own right there isn't much to hold the reader beyond its well worn images of love in the time of war.	2003-11-10
US	51394793	R1BP3TPVVNKQFI	0300060785	470785969	The Baltic Revolution: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and the Path to Independence	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Dated but good introduction to the Baltics	Unfortunately, this book is now badly dated.  So much has happened in the wake of the 91 revolution that the Baltic countries look much different than those Lieven presents in this book. However, his telling of the revolution and some of the events that led up to it provide the reader with a good background into the re-emergence of the Baltic nations.<br />Lithuania stands out because it was the first of the Baltics to physically make its case.  Estonia had actually drafted its declaration of independence first but was afraid to make the first step.  Not so with Lithuania, led by the charismatic Vytautus Landsbergis, a well-regarded composer, Lithuania proudly stood its ground against the Soviet tanks.  With shades of the Prague Spring lurking in the shadows.  Lithuania dubbed it the Singing Revolution, a nation well known for its folk songs.  The people sung these sungs well into the night.<br />However, many of the prophecies Lieven fortold in this book failed to hold true.  Although Estonia had the jump on the Baltics economically, thanks to its strong ties with Finland, the others soon caught up.  Estonia's Hansabank continues to dominate banking, but Latvia and Lithuania have carved out their own economic niches and have done very well in the past 3 years.<br />The countries couldn't be any more different from one another.  Their brief moment of unity was in declaring their independence, forming a memorable human chain across the three countries.  However, since then it has been each country to its own, as they compete with each for European and other foreign investment.<br />There have been many other books written on the subject of Baltic independence and nationhood since Lieven offered this timely portrait. It is best to balance Lieven's account against other sources. But, at the time it was it was written, it was a very welcome book as it put forward the case for Baltic independence.	2003-11-10
US	51394793	R3LI3UXZEC2VH	0684832461	608928337	Kennedy and Nixon: The Rivalry That Shaped Postwar America	Books	4	6	8	N	N	An uneasy friendship	A compelling account of the friendship and rivalry between two men who changed the face of American political campaigning in the Cold War era.  Matthews charts their long friendship, which was seriously challenged in the 1960 Presidential election that pitted them against each other.  Along the way, they had used many of the same techniques (one might say dirty tricks) to elevate themselves onto the national stage.  In the limelight of national television, Kennedy clearly got the better of his opponent, and their relationship took on a more adversarial tone after that.  Matthews covers the campaign with great relish.<br />One senses a certain sympathy with Nixon, speaking of his earlier campaigns against Voorhis and Douglas in a defensive tone.  Conversely, Matthews challenges the myths that surrounded the Kennedy persona, noting his &quot;fighting conservatism,&quot; which often found him at odds with liberal establishment, especially in regard to Joseph McCarthy, whom Kennedy thought &quot;might have something.&quot;<br />Nixon comes across as the underdog, able to eventually overcome his handicaps and attain the office he so long desired, even if it came at a heavy price with Watergate.  One senses the tragic figure in Nixon. On the one hand, wanting to be a part of the intellectual elite, and on the other hand, dispising its condescending attitudes.  He seemed to view Kennedy in the same way Nick viewed Gatsby in &quot;The Great Gatsby&quot; (which Matthews alludes to).  But, Kennedy seemed to think little of Nixon in turn. In the end, Nixon was a terribly bitter man, but much of this was his own undoing.<br />The book covers a lot of ground, skimming over some parts of their lives, providing valuable insights into others. It is a timely comparison of these two men, as many of the same themes have resurfaced in recent years.  Clinton clearly modeled himself after Kennedy, and Bush seems to have gleaned much from Nixon.	2003-11-06
US	51394793	RMBMU6EUD00LJ	0805057838	717339283	Natasha's Dance: A Cultural History of Russia	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Like Chichikov's carriage, a wild ride through Russia.	Although Figes takes the title from Natasha's dance in &quot;War and Peace,&quot; he could have just as easily used Chichikov from &quot;Dead Souls&quot; as his vehicle, as he takes the reader along on a wild ride through Russia's rich cultural history.  Figes explores his chapters thematically, exploring a compelling set of Russian ideas that revolve around the East-West duality that is so apparent in the works of great Russian artists, writers and musicians.  Figes seems to be more at home when exploring the themes found in the great classical compositions, providing wonderful character sketches of composers such as Stravinsky, Prokofiev and Tchaikovsky.<br />He also takes on virtually all of the major Russian novels of the past two centuries, starting with &quot;Eugene Onegin,&quot; noting the inspirations and the thoughts that pervaded these works.  He notes that it was Pushkin who gave Russia a literary voice, which it would never forsake, as each writer that succeeded him built on the language he had to a large part invented.  Ultimately, we get Nabokov's thoughts on the subject as Figes covers the emigres in the concluding chapter.  Nabokov imagined himself as a latter-day Pushkin, devoting a considerable amount of time to a translation and analysis of Pushkin's great literary work, before embarking on his own major works.<br />Figes captures the mood and energy of the time, the tumultuous reign of the Tsars, their Tatar origins, their identification with Byzantine, the Decembrist revolt and the Bolshevik Revolution.  He casts a light on some of the major figures of the time, such as Volkhonsky who defied the Tsar and was sentenced to Siberia.  Rather than submit to the elements, Volkhonsky rose to become a people's hero, greatly inspiring the works of Pushkin and Tolstoy.<br />He also takes in the artistic movement in Russia and how it was reflected through the writings of Tolstoy and others.  How the social realism and symbolist painting of the 19th century transformed into a dynamic abstract art of the 20th century, richly inspired by folk images as seen in the work of Kandinsky and Chagall.<br />Figes also treats the influence of the church on writers such as Gogol and Dostoevsky, and how they struggled to find salvation not only for themselves but for the nation through their writings.  Figes states that Gogol imagined &quot;Dead Souls&quot; as a divine comedy, but the only part he ever finished was the first part, which has haunted Russian authors and scholars ever since in assessing the genius of Gogol.  Chichikov and his carriage ride through the Russian countryside remains one of the most enduring images in Russian literature.transformed into a dynamic abstract art of the 20th century, richly inspired by folk images as seen in the work of Kandinsky and Chagall.<br />Figes also treats the influence of the church on writers such as Gogol and Dostoevsky, and how they struggled to find salvation not only for themselves but for the nation through their writings.  Figes states that Gogol imagined &quot;Dead Souls&quot; as a divine comedy, but the only part he ever finished was the first part, which has haunted Russian authors and scholars ever since in assessing the genius of Gogol.  Chichikov and his carriage ride through the Russian countryside remains one of the most enduring images in Russian literature.	2003-11-06
US	51394793	R18KR5QGEFIH21	0553380648	377895949	The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The magic bus	Tom Wolfe follows Ken Kesey's magic bus across America in one of the best road books of the modern era.  He captures the era in all its crazy, kinetic glory, from the acid tests in Haight-Ashbury to the final descent upon Timothy O'Leary's inner sanctum in New York.  But, the Merry Pranksters were out of their element in the tightly controled world of the LSD guru.  The Pranksters' world was a mad-cap adventure, following on the heels of Jack Kerouac with Neal Cassady at the wheel of the bus.<br />The book gives you all the sordid details of the acid tests which launched the psychedelic world in San Francisco in the 60's.  Wolfe provides wonderful word-images of these parties that revolved around the Grateful Dead and Jefferson Airplane.  Kesey emerges as the leading figure of this counter culture, when LSD was still legal.  However, his feel-good notion of this hallucinatory drug comes into sharp contrast with O'Leary's transcendental notions.<br />Along the way, the Merry Pranksters meet Larry McMurtry and other interesting figures of the time, as the bus skirts the lower half of the United States before making its away north to New York.  Kesey also has a brief visit with a down-and-out Jack Kerouac, whose On the Road had inspired this adventure, but Kerouac was having none of the Pranksters, much to their chagrin.<br />Wolfe highlights the difference between the East Coast and the West Coast when it came to LSD.  Obviously, his affinity was for the West Coast as he captures this tale in all its wonderful mixed-up glory, making for a thoroughly enjoyable read!	2003-10-20
US	51394793	R3FDU5826KYSUP	0141002344	581616801	The Scottish Nation: A History, 1700-2000	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The road to home rule	This is an excellent account of the long and troubled road for Scotland under the rule of Great Britain.  Beginning with the Union of 1707, which Scotland pretty much got railroaded into, Devine charts the meandering path toward Home Rule in 1999.  Along the way he touches on the cornerstone events which shaped modern day Scotland such as the Crofters' War, the Highland Clearances, the Scottish Enlightenment and Industrial Revolution.  It is amazing to read just how vital the Scots were in the expansion of the British empire, yet Scotland remained subordinate to England throughout this period.<br />Devine focuses primarily on the social and economic history of Scotland, noting how the failure of the Scots to construct a link between the Caribbean Sea and the Pacific Ocean at the isthmus of Darien led to a financial crisis which England was able to exploit, thereby forcing Scotland to submit to its will in 1707. However, England still had a difficult time suppressing the Jacobeans in Scotland, which continued to mount resistance movements throughout the 18th century.<br />Probably the most notorious period was in the 19th century, when English landowners with the help of Scottish landowners forced the Highlanders off their grazing lands and made them to settle along the coastline.  What began as a method of suppressing the remaining Gaelic culture, became a major relocation project that destroyed what remained of clanship in Scotland.  It lived on in name only.<br />Devine notes how Queen Victoria, a Jacobean at heart, revived Highland pride during her reign by establishing an estate at Balmoral. This along with the historical novels by Sir Walter Scott helped rekindle an interest in ancient Scotland and led to a cultural renaissance.<br />With the industrial revolution, Glasgow usurped Edinburgh as the leading city in Scotland, irrovocably altering the way of life for most Scots. Devine charts the rise of the political movements in Scotland, which began to push for greater home rule, feeling that Scotland was still be overlooking by the Parliament. The rise of the Labour Party was instrumental in the drive for Home Rule. Devine also notes the troubled relationship between Scots and Irishmen, particularly in Northern Ireland. A once similar culture now found itself at opposite ends of the spectrum.<br />Devine takes in a big sweep of Scottish history, referencing early aspects of history, but focuses on the 300 years of Union with Great Britain. It is rich in reference notes, pointing the way to further reading on the subject.  This is the culmination of his work on Scottish history, which he began with his book, Clanship to the Crofters War.greater home rule, feeling that Scotland was still be overlooking by the Parliament. The rise of the Labour Party was instrumental in the drive for Home Rule. Devine also notes the troubled relationship between Scots and Irishmen, particularly in Northern Ireland. A once similar culture now found itself at opposite ends of the spectrum.<br />Devine takes in a big sweep of Scottish history, referencing early aspects of history, but focuses on the 300 years of Union with Great Britain. It is rich in reference notes, pointing the way to further reading on the subject.  This is the culmination of his work on Scottish history, which he began with his book, Clanship to the Crofters War.	2003-10-07
US	51394793	R36PSH1UFB51TY	076240731X	465762094	Michael Jackson's Complete Guide To Single Malt Scotch 4th Ed	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The next best thing to a single malt itself	This guide to single malts is being continually revised and is the best of its kind. Mr. Jackson is always expanding his range of whiskies, even to include those made beyond Scotland. He provides an valuable index to the best brands and give you a short history of the distilleries. I've used this guide to help me enlarge my taste for single malts, which now includes a pretty fair sampling. I find myself repeatedly drawn to the 10 year-old Laphroaig, which proves as Mr. Jackson notes, that age is not always the best indicator of a great whiskey. Location has a lot to do with it, as this Islay whiskey seems to have a flavor all its own. He also notes the various blends, and which malts they use as their base. You'll be surprised to find that the more popular brands are not necessarily the best brands, as White Horse uses another Islay malt, Lagavulin, as its base. If you are new to single malts, this book will help you get started. The only limit is the your pocket book, as these whiskeys don't come cheap.	2003-10-07
US	51394793	R27QFZTR9JC3JF	0375408126	293864327	A Wilderness So Immense: The Louisiana Purchase and the Destiny of America (Lewis & Clark Expedition)	Books	3	17	27	N	N	Lost in the Wilderness	Jon Kukla certainly provides a vast account of events leading up the Louisiana Purchase, but seems to get lost in the Wilderness in the process.  He offers interesting character sketches and numerous anecdotal references, but it takes him most of the book to get down to the nitty gritty of the purchase itself.<br />He tries to hook readers into his account by providing a very questionable view of Jefferson in Paris in the opening chapter.  He assumes a pedophiliac relationship between Jefferson and Sally Hemings.  He plays this against an account of the building of the Richmond capitol to illustrate how Jefferson was not afraid to use subterfuge to get anything he wanted.  Kukla also plays Jefferson off against Monroe, who he seems to have more admiration for.<br />Kukla also has an obsession for the early secessionist drives in the fledgling US, and how the Spanish played off these sectional differences, particularly in regard to the nefarious James Wilkinson.  I think Kukla made too much of these secessionist drives.  Mostly it was a battle between the Federalists and the Republicans, not deep-seated sectional differences.  Of course these differences would ultimately lead to the Civil War, but at this point the Union was in its formative stages, and the new territories vied for statehood not independence.<br />I got the impression that Kukla was trying to build a picture of the early United States and its place in the world moreso than illuminate readers on the Louisiana Purchase.  There is an awful lot of information on the Spanish-French-American connection, but so little on the strong tie between the US and Britain. He focuses heavily on the Virginians, and presents the Northeastern contingent as incidental characters with the exception of Robert Livingston, who set much of the groundwork for the Purchase.<br />Kukla spends an inordinate amount of time on the French Revolution, as a means of introducing us to Napoleon and Tallyrand.  He also uses the revolution as the basis for the Haitian Independence drive which so greatly consternated Virginia planters.  Kukla does provide a pretty good account of Citizen Genet and his attempt to form a militia to take New Orleans prior to the repossession of the territory by Napoleon.<br />It seems Kukla is trying to impress readers with his universal knowledge of events rather than focus on the more salient aspects of the Louisiana Purchase.  All in all, it is an entertaining account of events but one that seems to lose its bearings in a wilderness so immense.volution as the basis for the Haitian Independence drive which so greatly consternated Virginia planters.  Kukla does provide a pretty good account of Citizen Genet and his attempt to form a militia to take New Orleans prior to the repossession of the territory by Napoleon.  <br />It seems Kukla is trying to impress readers with his universal knowledge of events rather than focus on the more salient aspects of the Louisiana Purchase.  All in all, it is an entertaining account of events but one that seems to lose its bearings in a wilderness so immense.	2003-10-06
US	51394793	R1PYRNQG9O6UCG	3822863033	500933742	Green Architecture (Architecture & Design)	Books	3	23	23	N	N	More holes than in the Ozone layer	At first glance this seems like an excellent introduction to green architecture.  James Wines has assembled an impressive collection of photographs of some of the eco-architecture that has been built over the past 30 years. But, a closer examination reveals numerous holes in the narrative.  Wines has put together a grab bag of ideas that held my attention but left me scratching my head as to why he left so many important architects out of his survey, and included some of rather dubious distinction.<br />Wines holds Frank Lloyd Wright paramount in his pantheon of ecologically-minded architects, alluding to his concepts of &quot;The Natural House&quot; and &quot;Organic Architecture,&quot; as virtually the only texts written on eco-architecture at the height of the Modern movement.  Wines likes Wright more for his aesthetic vision of ecologically sensitive architecture than for any great technological innovations in the field of eco-architecture.  Wines laments the fact that eco-architecture is driven too much by the latest technology, and not enough by aesthetic concerns.<br />He brushes over the Modern movement, which did offer a number of technological innovations, such as Buckminister Fuller's Dymaxion House and geodesic dome, and did explore traditional patterns in design, as in the work of Aldo Van Eyck, who was a contributing editor for Shelter.  Wines wrote off Le Corbusier, ignoring the architect's later work, which was very site specific.<br />However, the most glaring omissions are contemporary architects like Ralph Erskine, Glenn Murcutt, Samuel Mockbee, and Ken Yeang who have all given a great deal of consideration to environmentally responsive architecture.  You certainly can't call them &quot;eco-freaks,&quot; as their work has been readily accepted by the mainstream architectural community.<br />But, Wines does offer a number of engaging examples from which to draw from, including his own work with SITE. Perhaps the most interesting examples are the &quot;prophetic visions&quot; such as an Ozone-maker by Jeffrey Miles, seemingly inspired by Leonardo da Vinci, and Michael Sorkin's &quot;Shroom,&quot; which has a wonderful kinetic quality like that of Kiesler's &quot;Endless House.&quot; Great photos and illustrations, but read this book with grain of salt.uot;prophetic visions&quot; such as an Ozone-maker by Jeffrey Miles, seemingly inspired by Leonardo da Vinci, and Michael Sorkin's &quot;Shroom,&quot; which has a wonderful kinetic quality like that of Kiesler's &quot;Endless House.&quot; Great photos and illustrations, but read this book with grain of salt.	2003-10-01
US	51394793	RDYLY17WCR1OL	0375504907	635066654	Reading Lolita in Tehran: A Memoir in Books	Books	5	9	12	N	N	An intimate account of Revolutionary Iran	Nafisi may not bring an end to the tyrannical mullah rule in Iran, but she has opened up a Pandora's box in this book, illustrating a wonderfully rich set of relationships that helped carry through 17 years of hardline Islamic rule.  I could think of no more engaging way to relate such experiences than by building these four essays around such noted authors.  Of course, any Western book takes on a political tone when discussed under a religious fundamental regime, but I was really surprised to see her draw so much out of Henry James and Jane Austen. She forced me to look at these authors anew.<br />Of course Nabokov was an easy pick, especially<br />&quot;Invitation to a Beheading,&quot; which is as much a part of the first chapter on &quot;Lolita&quot;<br />as is Lolita herself. By showing us the personal nature of totalitarianism, that of imposing one's dream upon another, we get an idea just how far these repressive regimes will go to stifle one's imagination.  Both Cincinnatus and Lolita are seen as heros in Nafisi's book for being able to withstand the tyrannical hold their oppressive masters had on them.<br />I was less taken by the Trial of Gatsby, which was probably great fun in the classroom, but didn't translate so well to the page.  But here, like in all her essays, Nafisi provides wonderful anecdotes of life under Revolutionary Iran. She introduces us to her fascinating array of students, some of which she eventually brings together in a private reading group to escape the close scrutiny of the moral police.<br />It is in her home that the young women are finally able to unwrap themselves and reveal their true identities.  It is a very intimate account of her time in Iran, written with such rich insights into literature and the nature of totalitarian regimes. I hope that Nafisi's book will inspire a greater dialog in Iran, and further open the door to democracy.	2003-09-08
US	51394793	R20Q8EBUTS4UNL	1873982828	157325784	The Decadent Gardener (Dedalus Literary Concept Books)	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	A garden of earthly delights.	A wonderfully perverse book on gardening, focusing on the more fecund aspects of horticulture.  Not quite sure if Lucan and Gray are fictitious or real, but it doesn't really matter, as this book abounds in allegorical delights, as the two attempt to design a garden in the decadent spirits of the past on a large English estate.<br />What follows is a free flow of thought on gardening down through the ages, with a special attention to the more perverse aspects. One is guided through various stages of development, focusing on love, torture, death, wisdom, etc.  One wishes there were more photographs and drawings, but the authors kept that to a minimum.  The imagination still stirs in reading these accounts of a garden in progress, until the parish priest closes down the whole affair after the staging of a ribald play.<br />This book is as much a novel as it is a book on gardening, carried by the delightful personalities of Lucan and Gray. It is guaranteed to stimulate your creative drive.	2003-08-18
US	51394793	R35LE1CVOFDY9Y	0811213668	256202992	The Emigrants	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Haunting stories of times lost	As elusive as ever, Sebald tackles the lives of four Jewish emigrants.  The book reads as a set of memoirs, apparently built around real lives but it would seem that Sebald takes a few literary liberties in piecing their lives together.<br />The stories build one on top of the other.  The first, the story of a displaced \\"Lithuanian\\" Jew, is the most sketchy and most elusive.  Dr. Henry Selwyn seems never been able to adjust to his life in England, and over his long life drifted deeper inside himself until he had become a \\"hermit\\" on the grounds of his own home. Yet, Sebald seems able to draw him out of the overgrown garden and relate a few tell-tale anecdotes.<br />The following portraits are more rounded as Sebald seems to have a deeper personal attachment to these persons, culminating in the life of an artist, Max Ferber.  This story is apparently drawn from Sebald's relationship with the reclusive British artist, Frank Auerbach, and seems to thematically sum up the sense of isolation that all these persons feel.  Ferber, unlike the others, makes the effort to come to grips with his past through dark layered paintings.  However, Ferber seems more attached to the scrapings from his paintings and dust that has built up over the years on the floor of his studio, which in his mind more accurately reflects the condition of his mind.<br />All of these persons managed to escape Germany prior to the Holocaust, which hangs like a shroud over this narrative.  Sebald chooses to approach this sense of displacement obliquely, with subtle references, never approaching it head on. One of his subjects, Paul Bereyter, the most German of all, could not function anywhere else except in his home country and chose to return after the war, and was Sebald's teacher while in primary school.  Bereyter makes his comments against the church and state in childlike ways, endearing himself to his students, but Sebald's research reveals a much deeper character.<br />Haunting stories that evoke memories of times lost.  There is a bit of Proust in Sebald's writings as he seems more comfortable in a period that occurred before the industrial juggernaut of the 20th century that seemed to sweep away so much of the past.memories of times lost.  There is a bit of Proust in Sebald's writings as he seems more comfortable in a period that occurred before the industrial juggernaut of the 20th century that seemed to sweep away so much of the past.	2003-08-04
US	51394793	R20IVACK4CE2EH	B00006JO6C	969448338	A Grand Delusion: America's Descent Into Vietnam	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	A war now relegated to history	Robert Mann offers a well-researched account of the Vietnam War, beginning with its Cold War roots.  He meticulously charts the progress of the war from the French attempt to re-annex Indochina after World War II to its conclusion in 1975 when the Americans finally pulled out of this quagmire.  It was a 25 year ordeal that left over 3 million Vietnamese dead.  But, it was the continual loss of French and American soldiers that wore down the resolve of these two nations.<br />Mann begins by noting the early protest to the war in the Senate chamber in the mid 60's.  He shows how this dissent was ignored for the most part by the various presidential administrations over the years, as the US found itself locked into a battle with communism and was bound and determined not to lose Vietnam, as it had China and North Korea.  Even those who had their reservations early on, such as Mike Mansfield, chose to defer to the president, assuming he had information Congress was not privy to.  If all this sounds like the Iraq War, then take note because Mann states that the lessons have yet to be learned from America's most humiliating war.<br />Yet, Mann avoids making too much commentary, relying instead on a wealth of material to present one of the best overall pictures of the war.  If there is one shortfall to the book it is that Mann divorces Vietnam from all the other events going on at the time.  The Civil Rights movement gets scarcely any mention, which was Johnson's main concern.  Yet, it was Johnson who made the plunge into Vietnam following the Gulf of Tonkin incident.<br />Mann uncovers information that casts sufficient doubt if any attack on American vessels ever took place in the Gulf of Tonkin, yet is careful to note that Johnson was acting on what he believed to be good authority. From that point on, it was a series of battles which the US felt it was winning, yet the Vietcongs continued to hold their ground.  Mann notes the savvy of Vietnamese generals in this war of attrition, and how American generals continually underestimated their opponents.<br />The book lacks the immediacy of &quot;Dispatches,&quot; and other first hand accounts.  Mann has firmly placed this war in history, allowing the reader to view it at a distance. For those who still view Vietnam as a part of the present, this book might lack punch, but it makes up for it with a thorough body of research that helps the reader understand some of the reasons for the decisions that were made, as ill-fated as they were.of attrition, and how American generals continually underestimated their opponents.<br />The book lacks the immediacy of &quot;Dispatches,&quot; and other first hand accounts.  Mann has firmly placed this war in history, allowing the reader to view it at a distance. For those who still view Vietnam as a part of the present, this book might lack punch, but it makes up for it with a thorough body of research that helps the reader understand some of the reasons for the decisions that were made, as ill-fated as they were.	2003-07-11
US	51394793	RDUJNFBKH15I7	0307157857	947935231	Richard Scarry's Cars and Trucks and Things That Go	Books	5	26	33	N	Y	Great fun for all ages!	My kids are hooked on these books. Richard Scarry comes up with an amusing collection of cars and trucks that take on anthropomorphic proportions.  He leads the reader along with various devices such as \\"spotting the bug.\\"  The book has been translated into many languages, including Lithuanian, making it one of the most widely read children's books in circulation. Best to buy the hardback as it will get plenty of use.	2003-07-10
US	51394793	R2NLMLPAZR887N	0684801450	673130510	Death in the Afternoon	Books	4	26	28	N	N	The fine art of bullfighting	Hemingway is at his best when discussing the fine art of bullfighting.  He demonstrates a great appreciation for the bloodsport without romanticizing it.  However, the writing is uneven.  He throws in incidental pieces such as his running dialog with an old lady which only serves to detract from the subject.  I suppose he was having a little fun with his publishers who probably thought a book on bullfighting wouldn't wash with the general readership, but the old lady becomes a nuissance and I was happy that he dropped her a little over half way through the book.<br /><br />At the time, bullfighting would have probably seemed foreign to most American readers. But Hemingway notes the handfull of Americans and other expatriates who took part in the corrida.  He laments the modernization of the sport in which the art of killing seemed to be lost.  He provides an excellent description of the disciplines of bullfighting, the way in which it plays out like a three-act tragedy for the bull.<br /><br />The time frame is ca. 1930 but it doesn't seem the sport has changed much since then.  It is one of the many traditions in Spain that has survived the upheavels of the 20th century.  The Socialists tried to eradicate it but failed. Bullfighting takes on a metaphysical aspect in some of the matadors and bulls he describes.  It is wonderful reading and a great introduction to the subject.	2003-07-10
US	51394793	R3OEXJ41S7LXM9	0195117972	287039647	Grand Expectations: The United States, 1945-1974 (Oxford History of the United States)	Books	5	25	29	N	N	A well-balanced overview of America's most troubled era	James Patterson has assembled the most comprehensive survey of contemporary American history.  With the Cold War as the backdrop, he guides the reader through a tumultuous period that took in two wars and the Civil Rights movement.  He amply describes the nature of these conflicts and the impact they had on American society.  The leading figures are brought into focus, as well as the crucial events of the periods such as the Cuban Missile Crisis.  He weaves in a wide variety of cultural issues such as religion, noting how it has influenced successive administrations.  He ends the period with the downfall of Nixon, who appears throughout the book from his involvement in the House anti-American investigations, to his vice-presidency under Eisenhower to his subsequent presidency.  It is a well-rounded account and a wonderful addition to the Oxford History of the United States.<br />What was most interesting to me was the powerful influence religion had on our society and the conflicts that arose during the Civil Rights movement and the Age of Aquarius.  Patterson noted that Americans remained the most devoted church-goers throughout the troublesome 60's.  The church became the rallying point of the Civil Rights movement, and also served as the bastion of white supremacy.  Such contradictions made for volatile conflicts as each side felt it had the moral upper hand. The seemingly all-pervasive drug culture may have captured the public's imagination, but by and large America remained a nation of social conservatives.<br />Patterson provides good overviews of the Korean and Vietnam wars, tying them into the ideology of the Cold War.  He shows the seamless pattern that ran through these conflicts, as well as other conflicts in which the US found itself embroiled in during its effort to defeat communism. The costly battles left millions of Asians dead and no clear victories, tarnishing the reputation we had achieved after WWII as the champion of democracy.  He illustrates how each president from Truman to Nixon tried to avoid these conflicts, but somehow could never shake the \\"Losing China syndrome.\\"<br />It is a well-documented book covering a tremendous amount of ground.  Patterson steers clear of polemics, opting for a well-balanced assessment of the era.  Naturally when one takes on such a broad subject, certain discrepencies do arise, but there are no glaring errors, and the book has a narrative grace that leads the reader effortlessly through the tumultuous events.ow each president from Truman to Nixon tried to avoid these conflicts, but somehow could never shake the \\"Losing China syndrome.\\"  <br />It is a well-documented book covering a tremendous amount of ground.  Patterson steers clear of polemics, opting for a well-balanced assessment of the era.  Naturally when one takes on such a broad subject, certain discrepencies do arise, but there are no glaring errors, and the book has a narrative grace that leads the reader effortlessly through the tumultuous events.	2003-06-10
US	51394793	REGBXUNVTKJMW	1400034639	467724921	War Is a Force that Gives Us Meaning	Books	2	24	54	N	N	Post Modern mush	The book is sure to generate discussion, but doesn't bear up well under its title argument.  Hedges opts for irony rather than a thorough examination of the forces that lead to war.  He relies mostly on his journalistic experiences and a grab bag of literary references to challenge the premise he states on the cover of the book.  He offers up a series of essays rather loosely written covering a broad range of conflicts from the Falkland Islands to Yugoslavia.  He is at his best when describing his first hand experiences and at his worst when attempting to philosophize on the root causes of war.  He journeys back and forth from Homer to various Yugoslavian writers including Ivo Andric, all of which should be familiar to most readers.<br />Hedges tries to deflate the myths that surround the more virulent forms of nationalism that lead to war, but doesn't make much of an effort to root out the history of these conflicts. Rather he chooses to keep war on an abstract plane, which doesn't hold up well under close scrutiny of the various conflicts he describes.<br />He becomes romantic when trying to venture forth the argument that love conquers war, but here again he is dealing mostly in the abstract in a chapter entitled Eros and Thanatos.  He attempts to discern between comrades in the time of war and true friendship, which he feels would go a long way toward eliminating most conflicts.  The arguments melt down into a post-modern mush.<br />The copy I purchased had numerous typos, which characterized a rather hasty job of editing.  It seems that this was a book rushed to the publisher to cash in on Hedges Pulitzer-winning work with the NY Times.  Maybe the paperback has been more closely scrutinized.  But for those looking for a thorough examination of the primal force war plays in world politics I think you will be sadly disappointed.	2003-06-08
US	51394793	R22MOAQP0HI7X6	0452267455	664457226	Baghdad without a Map and Other Misadventures in Arabia	Books	4	10	10	N	N	An insightful account of life in the Middle East	Horwitz has a wonderful eye for detail and a broad range of literary references.  This is a very enjoyable book that at times packs a whallop, as was the case with his chapters on the Iran-Iraq War.  Mostly though Horwitz takes you into the mind of the Arab, as best he can, presenting a broad range of portraits drawn from his experiences in the Middle East.<br />What I like most is that Horwitz avoids the pitfall of judging the Arabs.  Even when meeting Iraqi officials he is careful not to pass judgement but rather assemble as much information as he can, and that was no easy task in this repressive country.  He scoots around with an Egyptian friend of his, taking in the panoply of Cairo life.  He captures situations well such as a belly-dancing club in Cairo and the variety of Arabs assembled for this rather low grade affair.  In Yemen, he takes part in qat sessions and offers notes on the gun trafficking that has made this country into one of the most dangerous places in the world.  Horowitz covers a lot of territory and presents it in a way that is immediately accessible to the reader.  So refreshing given some of the more pompous books that have come out in recent years such Bernard Lewis's attempts to explain the Arab.	2003-06-06
US	51394793	R2TAW8LY91DPM6	0679735259	135528120	Dispatches	Books	5	118	125	N	N	The Vietnam War at ground zero.	Certainly one of the most visceral descriptions of the Vietnam War.  Herr dispenses with politics to get to the heart of the matter - the soldiers in the field.  He tells so many compelling stories of the front line experience, which served as fodder for both \\"Apocalypse Now\\" and \\"Full Metal Jacket,\\" co-writing the movie scripts.  What makes the book stand out is the empathy Herr had for the soldiers' experiences, subliminating himself in the course of the narratives.<br />Khe Sanh is indeed the centerpiece of the book.  He describes the battle from ground level, drawing comparisons to the infamous Battle of Dien Bien Phu, which brought the French chapter of the Vietnam War to an end.  Commanding officers bristled at the comparison, yet here were the Americans entrenched in a remote outpost, with the mysterious presence of the Viet Cong all around them.  Herr gives you the perspective of a handful of soldiers he was in closest contact with, following up on their fates in later chapters.<br />Herr doesn't try to make sense of the war, simply presenting it as the maelstrom it was.  Chaos reigned.  All you could do was keep your head down.  He ties you in to some of the other reporters covering the war, including the flambouyant Sean Flynn, who would ride into most any situation with the aplomb of his legendary father, Errol Flynn.  It is such a fantastic range of dispatches giving the reader a real feel for what went on in Vietnam.	2003-06-06
US	51394793	R3RIYG1LOEJE6Y	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	4	6	11	N	N	Rage against the machine	Essentially a rant against the modern political machine, Moore takes aim at what has gone wrong in America thanks in large part to the Reagan Revolution.  He starts with the notorious Florida ballots in the 2000 elections, setting up the refrain that Bush was annointed by the Supreme Court rather than elected by the American public.  Moore counts himself as one of the 200 million or so Americans who didn't vote for Bush, describing our current political state as that of a junta.<br />However, Moore points out that the Democrats went a long way to creating this political climate by selling out their party. The most notorious years being that of Clinton, which Moore provides one of the many laundry lists noting how conservative Clinton's administration was.  Gore didn't seem like much of an alternative to Bush, but Moore still held out hope, beseeching a Tallahasse audience to vote their conscience as it what was shaping up to be a very close election.<br />Moore had thrown his weight behind Nader, feeling that the Green Man was the only alternative to the dreadful state American politics had fallen into, but Moore was scared by the possibility that Bush could pull off the election, especially with a little help from his brother and political friends in Florida, which Moore roundly condemns in this book.  So, Moore basically asked those assembled at Florida State University to hear him extoll the virtues of Nader say to vote against Bush.<br />Moore made a last ditch appeal to Naderites to use their bargaining position to force Gore into making concessions.  But, the Naderites felt they had gone too far to throw their support behind Gore simply because it looked like Bush might win. Even still, Nader's numbers dropped in the closing days of the election campaign, as it seemed some turned their votes to Gore.<br />But, the fix was in.  Moore describes in detail how the Republicans rigged Florida in their favor by dropping thousands of voters from the rolls prior to the general election because of alleged felony charges . Then came the notorious recount, which the Supreme Court in the end chose to abandon when it looked like Gore might still have the numbers to win.  In the end it wasn't disaffected Naderites, but the Republican political machine that engineered this victory.<br />Moore infuses his anger with humor.  There is almost a Gonzo-like quality to the book that has much appeal, but at times Moore is over the top.  He makes Florida into a whipping post for everything that has gone wrong in the country, including the invention of air conditioning which has unleashed unhealthy amounts of freon into the atmosphere, increasing the size of the hole in the ozone layer.<br />Take it anyway you want, but Moore backs up most of his arguments with strong supporting evidence.  It is refreshing to see someone rage against the machine that has turned American politics into another form of bland consumerism.the general election because of alleged felony charges . Then came the notorious recount, which the Supreme Court in the end chose to abandon when it looked like Gore might still have the numbers to win.  In the end it wasn't disaffected Naderites, but the Republican political machine that engineered this victory.<br />Moore infuses his anger with humor.  There is almost a Gonzo-like quality to the book that has much appeal, but at times Moore is over the top.  He makes Florida into a whipping post for everything that has gone wrong in the country, including the invention of air conditioning which has unleashed unhealthy amounts of freon into the atmosphere, increasing the size of the hole in the ozone layer.  <br />Take it anyway you want, but Moore backs up most of his arguments with strong supporting evidence.  It is refreshing to see someone rage against the machine that has turned American politics into another form of bland consumerism.	2003-06-06
US	51394793	R3MHBADNDNH26E	0140185003	179354174	The Quiet American (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An open-ended book	The newest film version has attracted alot of attention, casting Pyle in a more sinister light.  However, it seems that Noyce has made Pyle into a decidedly different character than that which exists in the book.  Pyle is a naive young man with his Asian sense coming largely from the books of \\"York Harding,\\" his college mentor.  Greene seems to be skewering the American sense of chivalry which so dominated our international relations in the 1950's.  Like the knight errant, Don Quixote, we seemed to be chasing after windmills but had much more firepower at our disposal and therefor were much more dangerous.  Pyle never develops beyond an American caricature in this novel.  He doesn't speak French or Vietnamese, carrying out a fantasy largely of his own construction.<br />The book can be read as political allegory, but I think this is largely due to the way things turned out in Vietnam.  At the base of this story is a love triangle that uses the escalating tensions in Vietnam as a backdrop for its action.  The time is the waning days of French colonial rule.  The battlle of Dien Bien Phu looms on the horizon. There is one scene were Fowler and Pyle are stuck at the front but for the most part the action takes place in the sinister streets of Saigon.<br />It is indeed a very entertaining a story.  However, I question how much Greene was reporting on the war but rather using the war to create the tension necessary in this love story.  Fowler is the best realized character.  The others read as caricatures taken from the fictitious mind of Fowler.  It has much cinematic appeal but Noyce seems to have tried to \\"correct\\" the 1950's anti-communist film version, but has gone so far in the opposite direction as to make a similar mistake.	2003-04-10
US	51394793	R27BK38DJQBEG	0156421178	802050474	Homage to Catalonia	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A front line experience	I wouldn't call it definitive, but Homage to Catalonia is a very engaging account of the Spanish Civil War.  Orwell wanted an infantry man's experience, drawn to the first person accounts of WWI by such authors as Remarque.  As a result, Orwell gives the reader an intimate view of the action, or rather inaction of the front line.  More compelling is his description of the street fighting which broke out in Barcelona, and the split that developed in the Socialist government, making it vulnerable to attack.<br />Orwell castigated Britain and France for not coming to the aid of the Socialist government, allowing Franco to gain the upper hand as the result of aid from Germany and Italy.  Orwell also underwent a catharsis in this book, losing his respect for the Communists, as a result of Stalin's notorious policies.  In the end, Orwell seemed angry at pretty much everyone for allowing Spain to fall into Fascist hands.<br />He maintained his respect for the anarchists, particularly the ex-pats who fought for the anarchists in the civil war.  But, Orwell seemed to realize it was a losing battle.  The anarchists were torn among themselves as they struggled for the heart and soul of the Spanish people.  Orwell never got to Madrid, unlike Borkenau and Hemingway, so his account is limited to the fighting which occurred in Catalonia.	2003-03-14
US	51394793	R1KODXZNRCERWJ	1568982666	393139924	Paul Rudolph: The Florida Houses	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	The modern Florida house	I found myself becoming nostalgic looking through the pages of this book.  Having grown up in Florida, I was stunned to see that the house I lived in had been a knock-off of one of Rudolph's houses.  His early Florida houses were widely emulated for their clean lines and passive solar designs.  It is an impressive collection, and illustrates the lighter side of Rudolph before he became caught up in the monumental forms that dominated the latter part of his career.<br />You might call him the John Lautner of Florida, creating a lifestyle as much as an architecture.  You could see Travis McGee laying back in one of these houses, drinking a beer as he waits for the elusive flash of green.  Rudolph really captured the spirit of Florida in the 40's and 50's.  Simple, well-thought out designs that are as relavent today as they were then.	2003-03-12
US	51394793	R9CU4FBRSJP5R	0836218833	508924803	Attack of the Deranged Mutant Killer Monster Snow Goons (Calvin & Hobbes)	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	Great bedtime stories	I've been teaching my son to read English through Calvin and Hobbes books.  I've been surprised how much of it is written with an adult in mind.  We have drawn much amusement from these books.  The Snow Goons isn't quite as rewarding as other C&H collections, but is enjoyable nonetheless.  This is more a weekly format with black and white strip cartoons.  None of the Sunday spreads are contained within this collection, where one really saw Watterson show off his stunning imagination.  However, it is very much worth adding to the archives, especially for bedtime stories.	2003-03-12
US	51394793	R32MO435EEPCKC	014118616X	512449782	The Sea, the Sea (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	3	40	50	N	N	The old maid and the sea	For first-time Murdoch readers, like myself, this novel is a bit of a chore.  She seems to be square in the Post-Modernist camp on this one, challenging one's every sensibility through her odd assortment of characters that emerge from the pen of Charles Arrowby.  This cynical English playwright is trying to piece his life together and has chosen a remote seaside town to pen his autobiography.  Little does he know that an old flame had similarly migrated to this town, reawakening the sweet bird of youth in this old reprobate.  The only problem is that she is no longer a beauty, nor seems to have much interest in him, which forces Charles into a series of regrettable actions that left this reader scratching his head as to &quot;why?&quot;<br />In reading Peter Conradi's essay on &quot;The Sea, The Sea&quot; in &quot;The Saint and the Artist,&quot; I got a better sense of what Murdoch was after in this novel, which is widely regarded as her best.  It seems that she purposely set herself to challenging one's sense and sensibilities.  The themes rather loosely wrap around the stage and mythology, but one is warned not to put too much stock in them.  The scenes are largely symbolic and I think should be read as such.  There is rather limited plausibility to the actions.  It is a philosophical book, seemingly written in the same didactic spirit as the great Russian authors.  Turgenev comes to mind.  It is certainly not an easy read, but I found myself rewarded in the end for my effort, although I can't say it was one of my favorite novels.<br />Murdoch never allows the reader to relax.  This is such an unnerving story, not so much because of its implied Gothic air, but because one is left to question the actions of the characters, and even the characters themselves in this odd mix of mayhem and mischief.  Charles is such a self-righteous old windbag that one has a very hard time identifying with him.  The dowdy Hartley leaves much for the imagination.  In fact the most compelling character is the one that seems to most elude Charles' pen, Clement, whom the reader is initially led to believe the novel is going to be about.  Instead, we get Hartley, the old maid, who has lost her charm on just about everyone except Charles.pelling character is the one that seems to most elude Charles' pen, Clement, whom the reader is initially led to believe the novel is going to be about.  Instead, we get Hartley, the old maid, who has lost her charm on just about everyone except Charles.	2003-03-12
US	51394793	R2OBZXMKRPRAZ9	0714840971	164523465	Architecture Today	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The architecture of our time	James Steele has assembled an impressive compendium of contemporary architecture up to 1997.  The photographs are glorious and rightly dominate this book.  The chapters correspond to various currents, more or less stemming from Modern Architecture, which is given a rather cursory review in the first chapter.<br />The aim is to help readers chart the often tempestuous waters of contemporary architecture, as it branches into numerous streams of thought that seem to grow ever more divergent.  Steele's chapters are a little too tidy in that they encapsulate, rather than expand on the attitudes of the architects.  One's appetite is barely wetted before Steele brings a chapter to a close.<br />He offers some alluring examples of Green Architecture of both the hi-tech and lo-tech sort, illustrating the different attitudes that emerged in the 90's. This seems the direction architecture is heading as sustainable development becomes an ever more pressing concern.  It is a sharp contrast to the various intellectual movements covered in this book that deal almost exclusively with abstract architectural ideas.  Steele also takes in the various popular movements such as historic revivalism, contemporary vernacular, and the theme park architecture of Disney and Las Vegas.  I was drawn to his concluding chapter on &quot;World Cities,&quot; in which he discusses the urban impact of globalization, a recurring theme in the book.  He touches on some of the current popular theories on urbanism, various urban renewal projects and the unchecked sprawl of Asian cities like Shanghai.<br />James Steele is a committed writer who has published numerous works.  I particularly liked his book on Los Angeles Architecture, which is given a chapter in this compendium. Although a Modernist at heart, he offers an even-handed treatment of the various approaches to architecture, including the ever-contentious Post-Modernism.	2003-03-09
US	51394793	R2PSLSGSRRMR6O	0300095139	106143839	The New Paradigm in Architecture: The Language of Postmodernism	Books	3	12	18	N	Y	Another polemic by Charles Jencks	You have to admire Charles Jencks for promoting Post-Modernism in architecture for 25 years.  He makes some intriguing commentaries in this book, but his arguments still ring hollow, largely due to his continued denunciation of Modernism.<br />He recycles his chapter on The Death of Modern Architecture, filled with the same glaring inaccuracies from the first edition.  He admonishes the Modernists for inverting the traditional syntax of architecture, turning boiler rooms into chapels, and chapels into boiler rooms, which he felt was the case with Mies at the IIT campus.  Yet, he hails the more recent examples such as the National Museum of Australia (2001) by Ashton, Raggatt and McDougall (ARM) for its crytpic ironic messages that took a text written by Howard Raggatt to help decipher.<br />But, it seems that Jencks revels in such complexities and contradictions, alluding to the seminal work by Robert Venturi which got the PoMo ball rolling in 1966.  Jencks illustrates the turbulent late 60's when an attempt was made to recapture the past, heeding the call by Jane Jacobs in The Death and Life of American Cities (1961) for a new urbanism based on contextualism.  The early PoMo figures seemed to revel in the collision of forms as seen in Venturi's work, or simply inverting Modernist icons like the Schroder House, as Michael Graves did in the Benacerraf House addition (1969).  A movement really didn't take hold until the 1970's and seemed to reach its apotheosis in the AT&T Building by Philip Johnson (1978-81).  However, Jencks was not content to let it go at that.  In the succeeding chapters, he attempts to illustrate how Post-Modernism redirected architecture, infused it with new meaning that went beyond the corporate forms of SOM and the huge Disney resort complexes of Michael Graves and Robert Stern, which dominated the 80's.<br />Jencks includes a fascinating range of work, but I am left scratching my head as to whether all this is really Post-Modern.  It seems a bit of a stretch to include Aldo Rossi, whose work is firmly based on Italian Rationalist traditions and the urban planning of Camillo Sitte, a 19th-century Viennese urban planner.  The Ad-Hoc forms of Ralph Erskine and Frank Gehry seem to recall theories first put forward in the 1950's, notably those of Aldo Van Eyck, than they do a new paradigm in architecture.  The fantastic images of Rem Koolhaas seem to recall Futurist visions from before WWI, with later references to Le Corbusier.  But, such references seem to allude Jencks, who seems intent on rewriting architectural history from a Post-Modern perspective.<br />As he states in his introduction, this is a polemic and it should be read as such.  It offers some engaging essays on current trends in architecture but lacks the depth of a thorough survey like that of William J.R. Curtis in his book Modern Architecture since 1900.  I guess the ultimate irony is that Le Corbusier is back in vogue, with playful new interpretations of the Domino House by Rem Koolhaas, and architectural one-liners like \\"The Not Villa Savoye\\" by ARM, which is painted black apparently representing the antipode of Australia.bit of a stretch to include Aldo Rossi, whose work is firmly based on Italian Rationalist traditions and the urban planning of Camillo Sitte, a 19th-century Viennese urban planner.  The Ad-Hoc forms of Ralph Erskine and Frank Gehry seem to recall theories first put forward in the 1950's, notably those of Aldo Van Eyck, than they do a new paradigm in architecture.  The fantastic images of Rem Koolhaas seem to recall Futurist visions from before WWI, with later references to Le Corbusier.  But, such references seem to allude Jencks, who seems intent on rewriting architectural history from a Post-Modern perspective.<br />As he states in his introduction, this is a polemic and it should be read as such.  It offers some engaging essays on current trends in architecture but lacks the depth of a thorough survey like that of William J.R. Curtis in his book Modern Architecture since 1900.  I guess the ultimate irony is that Le Corbusier is back in vogue, with playful new interpretations of the Domino House by Rem Koolhaas, and architectural one-liners like \\"The Not Villa Savoye\\" by ARM, which is painted black apparently representing the antipode of Australia.	2003-03-03
US	51394793	R2QZHGNRU901MD	0810114844	477956006	The Twelve Chairs (European Classics)	Books	3	41	49	N	Y	Poor translation	I think this book suffers mostly through translation because I've seen the Russian film versions any number of times, and found \\"The Twelve Chairs\\" to be utterly hilarious.  However, the humor seems lost in the Northwest translation.  I think of Mark Twain who lamented that \\"awful German language\\" for so badly maligning his \\"Tale of the Fishwife and its Sad Fate.\\"<br /><br />I think the Northwestern Univ. Press translations in general are weak.  Imre Kertesz has recently taken them to task for the translations of two of his works.  It seems that Northwestern's heart is in the right place, trying to capture some of the lesser known works in world literature, but that their selection of translations is rather shoddy.	2003-01-28
US	51394793	R3LKM63LCPRC0A	0393315185	931202942	The International Style	Books	3	15	17	N	N	An interesting period piece	The most interesting aspect of the new edition is the recent forward by Philip Johnson (1995).  In it he humorously describes his relationship with &quot;The International Style,&quot; and how dated the book now appears.  He also notes that it was Alfred Barr who introduced Hitchcock and him to this new world of architecture.  It was Barr who had written extensively on the subject and dubbed it an &quot;International Style.&quot;<br />Not surprisingly, nearly all the buildings included in this catalog for the 1932 MoMA exhibit date from 1927.  This was a pivotal year in the Modern Movement.  Le Corbusier's &quot;Toward a New Architecture&quot; first appeared in English.  The new improved Bauhaus opened its doors in Dessau, in Gropius' newly constructed complex.  The International Competition for the League of Nations building was held with Le Corbusier losing out on a technicality.  A building exhibition, laid out by Mies van der Rohe, was sponsored by the Deutscher Werkbund in Stuttgart.  Modern Architecture had come of age.<br />The selections are interesting for their range of architects but have several notable omissions.  Among them Rudolf Schindler, who dismissed the idea of an &quot;International Style,&quot; in a letter to Johnson.  Modern architects then and now hate the idea of a &quot;style,&quot; believing their works to be based on a set of constructive and compositional principles which transcend the notion of style.<br />Nevertheless, the name stuck.  Hitchcock and Johnson are widely credited for bringing the International Style to America, even though some early works by Neutra, Hood, Howe and Lescaze were included in the exhibition.  Most importantly, Johnson lured Mies to America, where he would achieve his most lofty aspirations.  The book makes for an interesting read but has long been superceded by more insightful and penetrating books on the subject.	2003-01-27
US	51394793	RE17DJ8MEXNPE	0823071782	628494004	Frank Lloyd Wright's Usonian Houses: Designs for Moderate Cost One-Family Homes	Books	3	7	7	N	Y	A good place to start	It seems that this important phase in Wright's illustrious career has not been given the attention it deserves.  As Frank Sergeant noted, Wright was most proud of his Usonian Homes and actively promoted his vision of a \\"Broadacre City.\\"  Unfortunately, Sergeant's book was the product of the 70's.  He offers a good text, but poor photographs and mediocre illustrations that don't give the reader a compelling vision of these homes.<br />Wright started with the Jacobs House, built in the late 30's, which got the ball rolling.  With a lot of sweat and material contributions by the owners, they were able to keep the cost near the $5000 budget Wright had set.  He wanted these homes to be affordable, clean, efficient dwellings that reflected his streamlined view of America.  Wright abhorred the wasteful society America had become, and envisioned a \\"Broadacre City\\" that would satisfy Americans' insatiable appetite for detached homes, without destroying the landscape in the process.  He incorporated many passive solar features into these homes, relied on natural materials, and as always created an open plan that characterized the democratic nature of society.<br />More enticing books are now available on Usonian homes, but Sergeant's book is a good place to start in getting an impression of the quality of these homes, and how they came to shape America's suburban lifestyle.	2003-01-23
US	51394793	R1FAWBKAG37PRH	0471358983	836706687	Building Construction Illustrated	Books	4	74	77	N	N	Just enough to make you dangerous	As an architect I worked for noted, this book gives you just enough information to make you dangerous.  Ching provides a beautifully illustrated guide to basic concepts of building construction.  It is a great introductory book filled with much useful information, but one can't necessarily build from this book.  I use it mostly to explain construction ideas, especially when it comes to wood-frame buildings, than I do as a set of graphic standards.  Ching does offer some specific information, such as thermal resistance of building materials and a general span guide for roof and floor trusses, but much of this information is general and should be verified with more precise data books.  However, Ching didn't set out to create another &quot;Standard Architectural Graphics&quot; book, but rather an affordable guide to building construction which would provide some useful information to the design student and home builder alike.	2003-01-23
US	51394793	R1FOPY10EOWD4S	0262520583	802902897	Theory and Design in the First Machine Age, 2nd Edition (MIT Press)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Insightful and well-presented study of Modern Architecture	This book has held up well over time, as Banham explores Modern Architecture with a critical eye. First published in 1960, Theory and Design has had numerous editions but the themes remain the same.  Banham looks at the major figures in European Modern Architecture through a series of penetrating sections.<br />He begins with the &quot;Predisposing Causes,&quot; the academic and constructive traditions of the later 19th and early 20th century.  Of particular note is the relation between the English Arts and Crafts Movement and the Deutscher Werkbund through Hermann Muthesius.  He follows with a section on the &quot;Italian Futurists,&quot; whose work was widely misunderstood at the time and now widely emulated, as many of the their principles of design have been absorbed by the Deconstructivists.  Next is a section on Holland and &quot;The Legacy of Berlage and De Stijl.&quot;  This is a particularly interesting chapter as he notes the influences of Frank Lloyd Wright and Cubism on this Dutch abstract movement.  He also describes how De Stijl went international, influencing many other movements in Europe.  The fourth section describes &quot;The World of Art and Le Corbusier&quot; in Paris.  Here he gets into his fullest exploration of the role Cubism had in shaping architecture.  Cubism had had an influence on Futurism and De Stijl, but it was the analytical branch of Cubism, led by the Duchamp brother, that would have the most impact as Le Corbusier absorbed many of these ideas into his work, evolving Cubo-Futurism into what he and Ozenfant called &quot;Purism.&quot;  The last section charts the course of the Bauhaus in &quot;The Victory of the New Style.&quot;  This is where all the separate strains came together in an international school which would have a profound influence on the shape of architecture in the 20th century.<br />It is a tremendously insightful and well-presented study, which is a must for anyone hoping to gain a better understanding of the ideas which underlie the various strains of Modern Architecture.  The focus is on Europe before WWII, with only mention of the influence American architects like Frank Lloyd Wright had on European architecture.s which underlie the various strains of Modern Architecture.  The focus is on Europe before WWII, with only mention of the influence American architects like Frank Lloyd Wright had on European architecture.	2003-01-22
US	51394793	R1IRYQDTE0FKV	0789306344	791627231	Le Corbusier: The Poetics of Machine and Metaphor (Universe Architecture Series)	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	An evocation of Le Corbusier	A rather slight but very appealling work on Le Corbusier.  Tzonis has distilled the rich and varied work of this master of Modern Architecture into a beautifully organized book.  He covers Corbu's life from his humble origins in the Swiss Alps to the international influence his ideas would have on architecture.  There are many illustrations of his buildings and evocative sketches from Corbu's journals, but this is less a study than it is an evocation of Le Corbusier.<br />Yet, Tzonis questions some of Corbu's positions especially in regard to his relationships with Stalin and Mussolini, making it seem that Le Corbusier was less an idealist and more a totalitarian when it came to his urbanistic visions.  When Le Corbusier proposed the Plan Voisin for Paris, he paid homage to King Louis XIV, noting that only a despot could have carried out such grand visions.<br />Tzonis also discusses the important role Corbu's early travels had in shaping his views, particularly his &quot;Journey to the East.&quot;  It is here that he found many of the forms which he would reduce to a &quot;kit of parts&quot; that he employed over and over again in his later work, finding new meanings and many rich combinations.	2003-01-22
US	51394793	R10Y0KT1DTTSP7	0300053207	168664676	Architecture: Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries (The Yale University Press Pelican History of Art)	Books	3	13	14	N	N	A dated survey of Modern Architecture	Unfortunately, this book doesn't hold up very well over time.  Hitchcock's study of Modern Architecture is spotty and not very well organized.  The most interesting chapters are those on 19th century architecture, which Hitchcock seems most comfortable with.  However, the later chapters leave much to be desired.  His understanding of Frank Lloyd Wright's architectural system is very weak.  It is little more than a walk through some of his more famous buildings.  He has a better understanding of the European modernists, but here too he presents them in a superficial way that leaves more questions than it does provide answers.<br />Hitchcock and Philip Johnson have been credited for bringing the European Modern Movement to America with their exhibit at the Museum of Modern Art in 1932.  They dubbed it &quot;The International Style,&quot; a name which has stuck but doesn't do justice to the many currents that ran through Modern Architecture at the time.  Hitchcock tried to develop these ideas further in &quot;Architecture: Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries.&quot;  He provides a wide array of sources, but very little that binds these ideas together.  One can find much better overviews of Modern Architecture by Kenneth Frampton and William J.R. Curtis.	2003-01-22
US	51394793	R3KI358DEK57F1	0060937165	414092052	Reconstruction: America's Unfinished Revolution, 1863-1877	Books	5	117	145	N	N	Reconstruction Revisited	A major undertaking.  Eric Foner and Leon Litwack (Been in the Storm so Long) have rescued Reconstruction from the dustbin of history.  Each has offered a timely re-exploration into one of the most pivotal periods in American History.  For Foner, Reconstruction represents the often forgotten conclusion to the Civil War, an attempt to address the social injustices that resulted from over two centuries of slavery.  What is even more compelling about Foner's account is that he absorbs the early women's suffrage movement into this early battle for Civil Rights.<br />This remarkably well-researched book gives probably the most thorough examination of Reconstruction to date.  Foner begins in 1863 with the emancipation proclamation, and carries the era through to 1877, when a fateful compromise was reached by Republicans and Democrats which led to the notorious period of Redemption, in which most of the gains during this period of time were nullified.<br />Foner covers a tremendous amount of ground.  He has uncovered old court records and other valuable information, which demonstrate just how active a role Blacks had in Reconstruction.  He notes the seminal work of W.E.B. DuBois (Black Reconstruction in America), which went largely ignored by the &quot;Dunning School,&quot; which interpreted Reconstruction as an unmitigated failure in social improvement.  Foner, like DuBois, notes how many beneficial social changes came as a result of Reconstruction such as public health, education and welfare. But the Redeemers could hardly stand to see Blacks in power, and fought tooth and nail to re-establish the old social order in the South, finally winning over the Grant administration, which pardoned the Southern states, and allowed them to regain the political ascendency, much to the chagrin of the Radical Republicans, who had been instrumental in shaping the Civil Rights legislation of this time.<br />This book presents so many revealing portraits.  It is as much a social as it is a political history of Reconstruction.  Of the many compelling stories was the attempt by Blacks to make a thriving concern of the former Jefferson Davis plantation.  Despite the fact that Jefferson Davis' brother had ceded the plantation to the former slaves, the Mississippi courts eventually gave title to Davis' heirs.  During this brief halcyon period, the freedmen had made a success of the plantation, never realized under the Davis administration. Foner offers this case, as well as many others, to demonstrate that the former slaves were fully committed to Reconstruction, and so this as the opportunity to gain the social and political ascendency they had long been denied.<br />One is left to wonder what it might have been like had callous Republicans like Rutherford B. Hayes not sold out Reconstruction, and allowed the process to continue through the late 19th century.  Instead, the Redeemers nullified much of what had been gained, leading to the notorious era of Jim Crow.a political history of Reconstruction.  Of the many compelling stories was the attempt by Blacks to make a thriving concern of the former Jefferson Davis plantation.  Despite the fact that Jefferson Davis' brother had ceded the plantation to the former slaves, the Mississippi courts eventually gave title to Davis' heirs.  During this brief halcyon period, the freedmen had made a success of the plantation, never realized under the Davis administration. Foner offers this case, as well as many others, to demonstrate that the former slaves were fully committed to Reconstruction, and so this as the opportunity to gain the social and political ascendency they had long been denied.<br />One is left to wonder what it might have been like had callous Republicans like Rutherford B. Hayes not sold out Reconstruction, and allowed the process to continue through the late 19th century.  Instead, the Redeemers nullified much of what had been gained, leading to the notorious era of Jim Crow.	2003-01-01
US	51394793	R2J3UXU2Y66US8	0809097044	544761506	Who Owns History? Rethinking the Past in a Changing World	Books	5	12	16	N	Y	A gritty and compelling set of essays	Foner is not one to beat around the bush.  He tackles pressing social and political issues head on.  In this remarkable collection of essays, he has taken aim at several key issues which define contemporary society. The most compelling essay is probably &quot;Blacks and the U.S. Constitution,&quot; in which he examines the motivations behind the conservative desire to read the Constitution in terms of its &quot;original intent.&quot;<br />As Foner notes, this is more a political than a historical argument.  By narrowing the interpretation of the Constitution to its &quot;original intent,&quot; conservatives hope to avoid addressing the more thorny issues which the later amendments attempt to address.  He views the current decisions by the Supreme Court as part of an overall drive toward &quot;Redemption,&quot; similar to the period of readjustment, in which states nullified much of the Civil Rights legislation which was enacted by the Radical Republicans during Reconstruction. This eventually led to the notorious era of Jim Crow.<br />Foner views history as a continuum, not a set of isolated events, which can be referred to to bolster one's political arguments, whether they be conservative or liberal.  Like his mentor, Richard Hofstadter, Foner rebels against consensus opinion, asking readers to form minds of their own.  The essays are gritty and compelling and serve as a reminder of the intellectual prowess of one of the foremost historians of our time.	2003-01-01
US	51394793	RMXENIYF0SJ7F	0691057524	199479656	The Apotheosis of Captain Cook: European Mythmaking in the Pacific	Books	3	9	10	N	N	The Great "Cook" Book Debate	You have to give Obeyesekere credit for looking beyond the Makahiki festival, which dominates Marshall Sahlins' study of the apotheosis of James Cook.  Obeyesekere sparked a minor maelstrom when he challenged the renown scholar's thesis that Cook was personified as a god by the Hawaiians.  Obeyesekere looks beyond bicameral minds, and insists that the Hawaiians were fully conscious of their actions.<br />Cook was not the great god Lono, nor did he pretend to be.  While his second arrival at the Sandwich Islands did coincide with the Makahiki festival, the Hawaiians did not deify him, but rather invited the Captain and his crew to take part in the ritual.  Unfortunately for the Captain things seem to devolve afterward, and the Hawaiians killed him and several members of his crew.<br />Many have tried to piece together the tattered remnants of this story.  Several of his crew kept journals and attempts were made after the fact to collect oral history from Hawaiians who were part of the cannibalistic ritual.  Unfortunately, few of these accounts jive.  Marshall Sahlins has done the most to try to piece together the events, but he seems to discount the Hawaiians ability for cognitive thinking, which tarnishes his work.<br />Obeyesekere attempted to draw Sahlins out, which he did with this book.  Sahlins responded with the more scholarly but overbearing \\"How Natives Think,\\" which he hoped would settle the issue once and for all.  Unfortunately, Obeyeskere is not an anthropologist and his arguments tend to be a bit thin, but he does shoot plenty of holes into Sahlins' thesis.	2002-12-22
US	51394793	RXF4S3OT24MED	0300060998	308182858	Dead Souls	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	A pilgrim's progress of a different sort.	This is probably the best translation available.  Guerney, who has Russian roots, is able to fully capture Gogol's masterwork.  Guerney also provides valuable background information in helping to understand the nexus for Gogol's strange journey into the heartland of Russia.<br />Gogol was apparently given the idea of \\"Dead Souls\\" by Pushkin, so the story goes, because Pushkin felt Gogol could do a better job with this theme than he could.  However, it was an uncle who had seemingly first concocted the scheme of using dead souls to boost the number of registered serfs on his estate so that he could get a license to distill vodka.  This seems more likely the case, because Gogol appears to draw much from biographical sources in creating this quixotic set of characters, which the enigmatic Chichikov comes across on his pursuit of \\"Dead Souls.\\"<br />The first book is filled with so much robust humour, that you are left dying for more.  However, the second book is not as satisfying as the first, much like that quixotic knight errant, who apparently served as a literary inspiration for this \\"poema.\\"<br />Gogol is part of the basis for any serious undertaking of Russian literature.  He was of the same literary period as Pushkin and Lermontov, and in many ways is more satisfying than either of them.  One should also read Gogol's short stories, such as \\"The Nose\\" and \\"The Overcoat,\\" which tumble into the theatre of the absurd.	2002-12-20
US	51394793	R3N401E5U0BSGI	0500202575	404373339	Modern Architecture: A Critical History (World of Art)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A defense of Modern Architecture	Frampton makes no apologies for modern architecture, instead he makes one of the more arduous defenses of modern architecture, taking in the full sweep of this architectural movement, and critically examining some of the contemporary trends which have followed in its wake.<br />It is a very readable overview of modern architecture, beginning with the late 18th century and 19th century predecessors which led to a thorough re-examination of architecture in the early 20th century.  Frampton divides his study into short thematic chapters which allow readers to focus on one movement at a time.  There are various recurring figures such as Frank Lloyd Wright, Le Corbusier and Mies van der Rohe; but Frampton covers an exceedingly broad range of architectural ideas in the past century.<br />He has updated the book to include some of the more recent currents in architecture such as deconstruction and fragmentation, which he places in the context of the broader stream of architecture since 1962 in one of his more thought-provoking chapters, &quot;Place, Production and Scenography.&quot;  He notes how many of the recent ideas in architecture draw from the Russian avant-garde and Italian Futurism.  He pans Post-Modernism for its pretension display of historicism, as exhibited in the work of Michael Graves, preferring the more rigorous historic views of neo-rationalists like Aldo Rossi.  It is an insightful, illuminating book, which has been updated to include Modern Architecture to 1991.	2002-12-15
US	51394793	R12SQTL4OAKRT6	0195066529	663099003	The Landscape of History: How Historians Map the Past	Books	3	9	18	N	Y	A fog as thick as pea soup	If it wasn't for Gaddis' reputation as a historian, I doubt this little book would have garnered so much attention.  Gaddis had noble aspirations to complete the studies of Bloch and Carr, but unfortunately those aspirations seemed to get the better of him, as he came up far short of his predecessors.  There are some clever little musings in this collection of essays, but very little that reveals the art or science of history.<br />He starts with the evocative painting on the cover, referring to history as mist-shrouded landscape which historians hope to reveal.  If he would have stuck with this metaphor, and elaborated on it in a series of revealing essays, then this might have indeed been a trenchant study of history.  Instead, Gaddis unabashedly lets the metaphors fall where they may, mixing them freely, and in the end coming up with a fog as thick as pea soup.<br />He makes a case for the narrative form in history, at the expense of the \\"mechanical view\\" fostered by the study of the natural sciences.  It has only been since the natural sciences adopted the the narrative form with its inherit complexities that Gaddis feels the natural sciences have come closer to the approach historians use to reveal the past.  But, Gaddis is too caught up in his use of metaphors to reveal the \\"ductwork\\" of the Historian's craft.  In the end, he says that this is the principal tool historians have at their disposal to relate the past to the present.<br />These essays may have made for charming lectures at Oxford, but they don't stand up so well in printed form.  Gaddis paints the study of history with a very broad brush, with some rather sweeping generalizations of the other sciences.	2002-12-15
US	51394793	R1GXRN91ES9WKA	0141180145	431493903	The Master and Margarita (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	A theatre of the absurd	When finally published in 1967, \\"The Master and Margarita\\" made a huge impact on the young Russian generation. It came at the end of the \\"Russian Spring.\\"  The years of Stalinism had partially thawed, and the Soviet Union saw a period of relaxation of many of the austere measures that had been levied on its citizens.  Bulgakov had written the book at the height of Stalinist repression. A devil mercilessly playing with the indoctrinated minds of the proletarians and intellectuals alike.  One has to understand that Bulgakov was a deeply religious man.  He used satire as a means of renouncing the god-less Soviet state.  Bulgakov can be viewed in the same literary vein as Gogol and Dostoevsky.  He also delighted in word plays, hidden meanings and multiple layers of storytelling, making this a book you can return to again and again.<br />There are two essential stories in this novel.  The first is that of the Master and Margarita, a doomed pair of lovers who find themselves fatalistically intertwined with the devil and his henchman.  The other is that of Christ and Pontius Pilate.  Bulgakov moves effortlessly back and forth in time through the voice of the devil, Woland, who overhears two Russian literati discussing the veracity of the death and resurrection of Christ.  The fun and games follow in rapid succession, as the devil turns Petersburg on its ear, confounding a sedated city with his miraculous tricks.<br />Pevear and Volokhonsky have done a fine translation.  It is a bit too literal for my tastes.  They didn't need to translate the names into English.  Footnotes would have sufficed.  But, then Bulgakov often employed blunt language. He was a playwright by profession, and in many ways this book is a theatre of the absurd.	2002-12-09
US	51394793	R3EN8CF8PZL1FO	0192833928	178013325	Fathers and Sons (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The just subordination of man	One of the most eloquent works in Russian literature, Fathers and Sons has had a major influence on subsequent Russian writers.  Turgenev weaves so much into this short novel. As the title suggests he is dealing principally with generational differences, but ultimately this is a book about finding yourself in the world.  In Bazarov, we have the ultimate nihilist, someone who renounces all societal conventions, which his peers utterly fail to understand.  As a young doctor he has turned his back on noble society.  We see some of his old feelings briefly rise to the surface in a romance which he pursues, but Bazarov chooses to extinguish those feelings, and return to his paternal home, where he ultimately seals his fate.<br />Turgenev is the bridge between the Russian writers of the early 19th century and the later 19th century.  In many ways, Fathers and Sons reminded me of the theme which Lermontov explored in &quot;A Hero of Our Time,&quot; and Turgenev appears in Dostoevsky's work, even if deliberately as a caricature.	2002-12-09
US	51394793	RTLJJ3F7ZTPNP	067941729X	237769681	Oblomov (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	The man who never was	Tolstoy hailed Oblomov as a sublime work.  Dostoevsky panned it as the work of a charlatan.  Goncharov created one of the most intriguing characters in Russian literature.  You might say Oblomov is the ultimate nihilist, but he doesn't know it.  This is a man who has never grown up, until one day he meets a fine Russian beauty, and attempts to direct his life for the first time.  The opening part of this book is first rate.  Goncharov sets up his characters beautifully.  &quot;Oblomov's dream&quot; is one of the finest pieces in Russian literature.  But, like Oblomov himself, this book doesn't hold up well over the long haul. Goncharov's literary powers begin to diminish and the story becomes more diffuse without really illucidating the reader as to the lack of motivation in the character.<br />Fortunately, Oblomov is not without humor.  The amusing relation between the protaganist and his manservant, Zahar, can be side-splitting at times. It is also quite poignant.  As much as Oblomov seems to loathe his manservant, he can't bear to be without him.  Zahar is the only link Oblomov has left to the family estate.<br />Oblomov does not stack up to the greats in Russian literature, but it is worthy of the second tier.  However, it has been a book that has influenced later generations of writers, including Samuel Beckett, and has been made into a feature length movie by Nikita Mikhalkov.	2002-12-09
US	51394793	R379I5FI9RQV00	0142000272	289712823	Anna Karenina (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A translation even Nabokov may have approved of.	Finally someone got it right.  I think even Nabokov would have approved of this translation.  Pevear and Volokhonsky have done an exemplary job with one of the finest books in Russian literature.  The story has a flow and a grace, which seemed lacking in Garnett's translation.  So many of Tolstoy's wordplays have been faithfully reproduced.  P&amp;V provide copious endnotes to help explain many of the references.  This translation is truly a pleasure to read.<br />Most persons are familiar with the story of Anna and Count Vronsky, but even more compelling to me is the story of Levin and Kitty.  I love the opening ice skating scene in which they first meet in the novel.  It takes much longer for Levin to realize his love for Kitty, than it does Anna and Vronsky, and in the end he is more fully rewarded for it.  Through Levin, we see more of the Russian countryside, its enormous width and breadth.  Tolstoy seemed to inhabit Levin, bringing many of his ideas forth through this dark, brooding character, who ultimately sees the light.<br />Tolstoy so richly details his characters, juxtaposing their relationships, and placing them within time and space with the deft hand of a master.  This is arguably his greatest work.  It is Tolstoy at the peak of his intellectual and creative abilities.	2002-12-08
US	51394793	RQS76AOCTVND5	0714833568	762761100	Modern Architecture Since 1900	Books	5	25	26	N	N	A very impressive survey of Modern Architecture	Modern Architecture since 1900 is an impressive overview, delving into the late 18th century and 19th century roots as well.  Mr. Curtis approaches the subject thematically which makes it easier for the reader to understand the many currents in modern architecture.  As one would expect Frank Lloyd Wright, Le Corbusier, Walter Gropius and Mies van der Rohe figure prominantly in this work.  However, the author examines the influences on their work, as well as the impact they had on modern architecture, providing many intriguing links, such as the one between Wright and Mies.<br />The chapters which particularly stood out in my mind were \\"Architecture and Revolution in Russia\\" and \\"Totalitarian Critiques on the Modern Movement.\\"  In the first mentioned chapter, Curtis charted the rise of the avant-garde in Russia, its leading figures, and its confrontation with the Constructivists.  In the second mentioned chapter, Curtis examined the attitudes toward modern architecture by Hitler, Stalin and Mussolini, who was the only one of the three to accept modern architecture.  Like all his chapters, Curtis presents the information in a clear cogent format.<br />Most illucidating is the widespread influence of modern architecture in Asia, Central and South America.  He focuses primarily on India, Mexico, and Brazil, illustrating how modern architecture has been adapted to suit the cultural as well as climactic concerns of these countries.  Le Corbusier looms large.  But Curtis also notes the regional influences that led to counter movements, such as that inspired by Hassan Fathy.<br />Curtis is critical of the current trends in contemporary architecture.  He questions the integrity of the latter-day modernists, post-modernists and deconstructionists.  He is drawn more to the individual works of Norman Foster, Renzo Piano and Frank Gehry, which he feels express a deeper understanding of modern architectural principles.<br />One couldn't ask for more in this book.  It is the most impressive survey of modern architecture since Giedion's \\"Space, Time and Architecture.\\"impressive survey of modern architecture since Giedion's \\"Space, Time and Architecture.\\"	2002-12-04
US	51394793	R2TWHJHSGOSMSX	0674830407	542350507	Space, Time and Architecture: The Growth of a New Tradition, 5th Revised and Enlarged Edition	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The seminal work on Modern Architecture	One cannot even presume to understand modern architecture until one has read Giedion's classic work. This book did more to shape the view of modern architecture than did any other book. Giedion provides an impressive survey of architecture down through the ages, illustrating those aspects which had an influence on modern architecture. One of his more illucidating chapters is \\"The Demand for Morality in Architecture,\\" which underscores the content of this work.<br />The heart of the book is his chapter on \\"Space-Time in Art, Architecture, adn Construction,\\" in which he examines the leading figures and movements in modern architecture, with the spotlight on Walter Gropius, Le Corbusier, Mies van der Rohe and Alvar Aalto. These were the founding fathers. He examines the roots of their ideas as well as the influence they had in shaping the modern movement. This later edition also includes a chapter on \\"Jorn Utzon and the Third Generation,\\" which Giedion felt had successfully carried the principles of modern architecture into contemporary society.<br />Giedion also explores the shifts in attitude toward city planning in the late 19th century and early 20th century, reviewing such seminal figures as Ebenezer Howard, Patrick Geddes, Arturo Soria y Mata, and Tony Garnier, which ultimately lead to the creation of C.I.A.M, the International Congress of Modern Architecture.<br />Giedion is unabashed in his support of modern architecture, which has made this book the favorite whipping post of post-modern critics. But, few have explored the subject as deeply as has Giedion. Don't rely on other interpretations of Giedion. Read \\"Space, Time and Architecture\\" before drawing any conclusions.	2002-12-04
US	51394793	REPNNMZF6FUSK	0679736883	443101004	The Radicalism of the American Revolution	Books	5	86	91	N	N	A Prudent Revolution	Gordon Wood covers much the same ground as did Bernard Bailyn did in \\"The Ideological Origins of the American Revolution,\\" but charts it in a more linear fashion.  Wood illustrates how the American colonies emerged from a monarchical system into a Republic, and eventually into a Democratic society.  The focus is on representation, beginning with the colonial assemblies.  The American colonies had a legacy of representative institutions, which helped in forming the necessary consensus in order to achieve independence.<br />Throughout its revolutionary history, Americans felt they had a moral imperative for self-determination, dramatized by such events as the Boston Tea Party.  The colonies took great pride in their assemblies, and in many ways felt they were the ultimate authority.  If the Americans were anwerable to anyone it was the King, not the parliament, which increasingly exercised more control over the colonies, especially in the form of taxes to pay for the various services it provided the colonies, such as protection.  Wood notes how agents, such as Benjamin Franklin, petitioned for the rights of the colonies in the parliament. When these petitions were no longer heard, the colonies chose to rebel.<br />What is intriguing about Wood's analysis, is the reluctance many Americans had about making a complete breach from England.  Americans realized that their institutions were an outgrowth of English Republican ideas. It was a slow, evolving revolution, carrying these principles to their fullest realization.  Never short of praise for themselves, the Americans thought they had succeeded where the British had failed in creating a truly representative government.<br />Wood offers an especially fine analysis of the events which shaped the American Revolution, and how it was a natural outgrowth of an increasingly dynamic society.  The book is copiously annotated and well indexed.  It is a book that you will refer to again and again.	2002-12-02
US	51394793	R26WC2ZMMNZ7R2	0394555090	951161016	Theodore Rex	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A bully portrait of T Rex the president	The second installment in Morris's projected trilogy of TR covers his presidential years.  Morris takes a different approach to T Rex in this volume, presenting his administration in a journalistic format, which at times is a little frustrating, but no less rewarding.  Morris has presented a vivid portrait of our most indominatable president, focusing on his strengths and discounting many of his weaknesses.  What emerges in this biography is not Teddy the warmonger, which many critics considered TR to be, but rather the Theodore the peacemaker.<br />TR was a much better chess player than most people give him credit for being.  He knew how to position the American navy in such ways to achieve the best strategic advantage for the United States.  He was able to stare down the British and the Germans in Venezuela; and able to maintain the US's key possessions in the Pacific through hard bargaining with Japan.  He gave the Russians the opportunity to maintain their pride if not their geopolitical importance, following the Ruso-Japanese war, earning himself the Nobel Peace Prize in the process.  TR made a few mistakes along the way, such as selling out Korea for the sake of a peace treaty between Russia and Japan, but these pale in the light of his greater accomplishments.<br />On the domestic front, Morris illustrates TR's concern with the environment and labour.  He also charts TR's trials and tribulations in starting the Panama Canal.  As TR grew in confidence he was able to get much more accomplished.  He seized control of the Republican Party, setting the agenda in his second term. The accidental president was now the driving force in politics, and could have very well served a third term had he not stood by the gentleman's agreement that a president should serve only two terms.  A reluctant Taft had very big shoes to fill, as would have any person succeeding this larger than life president.<br />Morris lavishes attention on TR's oldest daughter, Alice.  The precocious teenager grows into a fetching young beauty in the course of this narrative, stealing the show on numerous occasions.  She upstaged her fellow Americans in Japan, endearing herself to the host country, who followed her every move in the press.  Her wedding was a royal affair, with a treasure trove of gifts from the world over.  It took a massive storeroom just to hold them all.<br />Morris doesn't spend as much time on Edith, largely because his wife, Sylvia Jukes Morris, has written a biography on Edith Kermit Roosevelt.  Probably the only journalistic pair to write biographies of a first couple.<br />Not quite as satisfying as \\"The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt,\\" but a sterling portrait just the same.  Morris seems very comfortable with TR, and one hopes that it won't take another 20 years for the concluding volume in this triptych.ious teenager grows into a fetching young beauty in the course of this narrative, stealing the show on numerous occasions.  She upstaged her fellow Americans in Japan, endearing herself to the host country, who followed her every move in the press.  Her wedding was a royal affair, with a treasure trove of gifts from the world over.  It took a massive storeroom just to hold them all. <br />Morris doesn't spend as much time on Edith, largely because his wife, Sylvia Jukes Morris, has written a biography on Edith Kermit Roosevelt.  Probably the only journalistic pair to write biographies of a first couple.<br />Not quite as satisfying as \\"The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt,\\" but a sterling portrait just the same.  Morris seems very comfortable with TR, and one hopes that it won't take another 20 years for the concluding volume in this triptych.	2002-12-01
US	51394793	R1WLLRSRDFJGNK	0375724672	96071634	True History of the Kelly Gang: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Son of the soil	Ned Kelly may not be everyone's hero, but he certainly comes across as a very compelling character in Peter Carey's novel.  I guess Kelly has haunted the Australian mind, as Jesse James has the American mind.<br />This is really a contemporary tale, as it is being told from a retrospective point of view, through his letters.  Ned Kelly is seen in modern terms.  I didn't know very much about the Kelly gang before reading Carey's account, but have since picked up bits and pieces off the web.  Carey stuck pretty closely to the actual events. Where he embellished was in his attempt to ferret out the character of this misunderstood lad, who was a rogue to some and a hero to others.<br />Basically, we get the hard life of Australia.  The second and third generations of the convict labourers, scratching out their lives in the sun-baked soil of the outback, doing what they can to survive.  Ned's mother is at the heart of this story.  An Oedipal relationship, which Carey artfully played with.  It is her series of bad choices, which ultimately leads Ned into his life of crime. But, like a good boy, Ned chooses to blame all the men her life, not dear old mom for selling him to the devil.<br />Carey is a wonderful writer.  The images are very compelling.  He seems to get into the skin of his characters, which is such a great pleasure to read.  I imagine this was a difficult book for him to do, as Ned Kelly is one of those characters you would normally have to tread softly on because of the mythical status he now has in Australia.  But, Carey put his boots on and waded into the story, deconstructing many of the myths that surround Ned, and succeeding, I thought, in finding the \\"true story\\" of this unfortunate son of the soil.	2002-12-01
US	51394793	R2GGQJ9ZFKAK3T	0385495404	556829614	The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	First American, First Renaissance Man	Franklin is an extraordinarily complex person.  There were so many facets to him that one could write numerous books on this venerable &quot;First American&quot; and still not find the essence of this great man.  Brands does an admirable job of containing Franklin's remarkable life in a single volume.<br />Brands has written what may very well be the definitive biography of Franklin.  Brands charts the growth of Franklin from his boyhood beginnings in Boston to the upstart city, Philadelphia, onto London, where Franklin seemed to enjoy himself most, until tensions became so strained as to be forced to return to the Philadelphia, where he led the drive for a Declaration of Independence.<br />Brands treated the stages in Franklin's life thematically, which makes it easier to understand the various facets of this extraordinary man.  We see Franklin the pamphleteer, the scientist, the man of letters, the cosmopolitan, the firebrand, the militia organizer and eventually Franklin the statesman.  No one man had a more pivotal role in the making of the Republic than did Franklin.  While in London, he represented no less than four colonies as an agent to the British colonial barons.  He fought for better reprentation of the colonies in the British parliament.  At times, he seemed to spread himself too thin, especially in regard to his family.  But, Franklin was always one to lend advice, as can be read in his autobiography.<br />The first chapters of this book are a little too close to Franklin's autobiography. Brands seems to take Franklin's words at face value.  As more material emerges, Brands becomes more critical of Franklin, especially through the eyes of other leading political figures in his day, such as John Adams.  However, Brands identifies himself primarily with Franklin, firmly placing him as the most important figure among the Founding Fathers.  If it hadn't been for his advanced age, Franklin may very well have been the president of the First Continental Congress, but he deferred than privilege to Washington.  Just as he had deferred the privilege of writing the Declaration of Independence to Jefferson. Everyone at the time recognized Franklin as the elder statesmen, who played the key role in securing French support for the American revolution.ess, but he deferred than privilege to Washington.  Just as he had deferred the privilege of writing the Declaration of Independence to Jefferson. Everyone at the time recognized Franklin as the elder statesmen, who played the key role in securing French support for the American revolution.	2002-12-01
US	51394793	R1TPHE3CMU09VB	0374129983	647099960	The Corrections	Books	2	4	5	N	N	You can never go home again.	It's been a year since I read this book.  While it still lingers in my head, I am hard pressed to say anything really positive about the book.  It reads too much like a soap opera.  A Peyton's Place for the 90's, riddled with enough insecurities and neuroses to keep one turning the pages.  At first, I thought this was one great send-up to the All-American family, but I've since concluded that it is just one person's worst nightmare.<br />There were so many things that turned me off about this book.  Living in Lithuania, I found his descriptions utterly absurd.  I would have taken them as such had he not seemed so intent on making Lithuania into the ultimate basket case of Eastern Europe to drop Chip in, to reinforce the fact that he could never get away from the dominating presence of his slowly dying father.<br />Gary was even worse.  The addled older brother who demanded to the point of nauseating repitition that his wife Caroline come clean and admit she took the fall on her own account, not because his mother had called, disrupting a friendly game of touch football between her and the kids.  After all, he witnessed the event from his secret chamber, a darkroom with a window.<br />Then we get the sister.  I forget her name.  She didn't leave much of an impression on me, except that she seemed to be the only one who had her act together.  Cleaning up after little brother.  Seemingly on the right track, but then she too has her own hang-ups, her own twists of fate, and is just as much dominated by her father as is everyone else in this far-flung family, whose dear old mom so desperately wants just one more family reunion before dear old pop dies.<br />Considering the current spate of such neurotic \\"Home for the Holidays\\" family fare, this is pretty good stuff.  They are oh so beautiful!  You can imagine all of them naked.  Even dear old mom still has a figure after all these years. And, they eat so well.  All the best produce from the local organic food store.  But, underneath this facade of great health and great looks is the quentessential family rot to keep you turning the pages crisply to the end.  It is certainly no worse than the moody \\"Ice Storm.\\"  It should adapt well to the screen, completing Franzen's coup de grace., underneath this facade of great health and great looks is the quentessential family rot to keep you turning the pages crisply to the end.  It is certainly no worse than the moody \\"Ice Storm.\\"  It should adapt well to the screen, completing Franzen's coup de grace.	2002-12-01
US	51394793	R2E7AV6NLJNF72	0385498195	953677392	John Henry Days	Books	3	15	17	N	N	A novel in progress	This intriguing book succeeded in capturing my imagination, but wasn't the type of book I could really savor.  Whitehead has reached far and wide, deconstructing a number of accounts to create a montage, or a stamp collection if you will, of John Henry Days.  The premise was simple enough.  A rat pack of free-lance writers covering the inaugural day celebration of the newest commemorative stamp issued by the post office.  One black reporter stood out like a sore thumb, and we are reminded a little too much of this.  A few other blacks were sprinkled into this tale set in a remote West Virginia town which still eats Wonder bread.  Fortunately, Whitehead didn't stick to convenient racial stereotypes.  Instead, he used this town to represent Middle America, which J had to navigate if he was going to come out with a story, and keep his \\"streak\\" alive.<br />The best scenes in my mind were those that played with the John Henry theme more closely.  The others seemed to be flights of fancy.  Inticing sometimes, but straying wide of the mark on other occasions.  Whitehead seemed to have taken Ellison's \\"Invisible Man\\" from his underground chamber and brought him to light in a comtemporary setting.  John Henry Days seemed like the perfect foil, but Whitehead didn't go very far beyond character sketches.  This novel read like a reporter's notebook, a novel in progress, not a full length work of fiction.  As such, it left me a little disappointed.	2002-12-01
US	51394793	R38ITGHTBLEFOG	0471286168	23494932	Architecture: Form, Space, and Order	Books	5	50	54	N	N	The &quot;I Ching&quot; of Architecture.	An excellent introduction to architecture.  However, I liked the old horizontal format better.  The new edition has all the same illustrations but its vertical formal isn't as compelling. Ching is the master of free-hand sketching.  In this book he covers the basic principles of architecture with copious illustrations and an easy to follow progression of ideas. It is great for first year students and frustrated architects alike.  My only word of warning is that once you buy one of his volumes on architecture, it is hard to resist the others.	2002-12-01
US	51394793	R3EBZW6KHD11C5	0811214133	895075982	The Rings of Saturn	Books	5	48	49	N	N	A  Decaying England	Rings of Saturn was my introduction to Sebald, a marvelously evocative writer.  His penetrating prose reveals so many layers of the English countryside.  Sebald looks through the tarnished lens of history to a past most people would prefer not to see.  In this case, a slowly decaying England whose imperial past has come back to haunt it.  He tells each tale like an individual case study, loosely built around Thomas Browne's &quot;Journal of Medical Biography.&quot;<br />Sebald makes many salient observations.  I particularly liked his study of Roger Casement, his contact with Joseph Conrad, his various peregrinations and ultimate trial for sedition, as a result of his support of the Irish freedom movement. Within this chapter, Sebald condenses Casement's tortuous history to its essential elements. Sebald noted with irony that Casement's hidden homosexuality may have been what sensitized him to the continuing oppression and exploitation that cuts across social and racial boundaries of those who lie the furthest away from the centres of power.<br />This is a thought-provoking journey, reminiscent of other solitary travellers such as Rousseau and Proust, looking into the darker reaches of mankind.  There is an essential humanity to all his stories.  Each meticulously researched, distilled, and presented in this evocative collection of personal observations.	2002-12-01
US	51394793	R4CWWFQODMMMS	0140257861	582495311	An Albany Trio	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	Where the Albany Cycle all began	I've read these three novels separately over the years and was happy to see them all neatly packaged in one volume.  I couldn't resist the temptation.  I hope a second volume which includes the next 3 novels will be out soon.<br />Kennedy is the Faulkner of Albany. His wonderful set of characters, rich language and compelling story line will endear most anyone to this family saga of growing up in Depression-era Albany.  Kennedy focuses on those little items that give the city its richness, and his characters have that sense of noble purpose which carries them through such hard times.	2002-07-16
US	51394793	R3GCYVT6L5S7NY	0156180359	718908050	The City in History: Its Origins, Its Transformations, and Its Prospects	Books	5	62	64	N	Y	A comparative analysis of cities	Lewis Mumford deftly explores the formation and development of the city from its early Mesopotamian and Egyptian roots to its modern day manifestations. It is the logical extension of his earlier works on the subject, in particular \\"The Culture of Cities,\\" which has been partially absorbed into this volume. Of particular interest to meis his analysis of the walled versus open cities, and the sharply opposing world views of the progenitors of these cities.<br />Mumford was particularly drawn to the early Hellenic and later medieval town planning ideals.  He noted how the early cities knew their limits, and established satellite communities, rather than continually extend their boundaries.  Loose-knit federations were formed, which were much more democratic than were the Roman and Baroque regimental cities.<br />He charts the evolution of modern city planning ideals, very critical of Le Corbusier's \\"Radiant City\\" and other megalomaniac ideas which arose in the 20th century.  Mumford favored the \\"garden city\\" ideals of Ebeneezer Howard, which recognized the destructive impact of industrialization on urban centers; rather than those schemes which extolled the industrial city as the city of the future.<br />Mumford is careful not to over reach, or at least let you know when he is forming suppositions. His annotated bibliography is immense, and probably the single most compelling aspect of this book for those who want to read more on the subject. The new Harcourt paperback edition, which came when I ordered this volume, has a more handsome cover than that shown in this listing.	2002-07-16
US	51394793	R30OD3N0Y4GIEP	067974195X	775641653	The Death and Life of Great American Cities	Books	2	56	97	N	N	Anything But a Classic	The first time I read Jane Jacobs opus to the city street, I was bowled over by what seemed to be just plain &quot;common sense.&quot;  However, a second reading had much less impact.  Having since read Le Corbusier, Lewis Mumford and many other of the architects and critics whom she panned, I realized just how weak an analysis she provided.  Jane provided a most cursory review of past urban planning ideas, undeseveredly raking Lewis Mumford over the coals when he too protested against many of the redevelopment projects slated for New York in the 1950's.  In fact, what Jacobs does is go back to the early Modern planning ideas from the 1920's and 30's and leads readers to assume that the leading lights had not changed their views one iota since then.  Nothing could be further from the truth.<br />Sure, European Modernism took root in America after WWII with Walter Gropius heading the Harvard School of Design and Mies van der Rohe doing his signature works in Chicago and New York, but what happened to American cities in the 1950's was thoroughly American, and had roots going back to the 19th century industrial revolution.  American cities were constantly being remade, very much like the image of America itself.  The mid-rise and hi-rise housing complexes first put forward in the 20's were being seriously questioned by the architectural community in the 50's, but developers saw these buildings as expedient and profitable solutions to the ever-increasing demand for housing.  The federal and city governments supported these projects in the war on poverty.  Yet, it was poverty that saved many of the neighborhoods which Jacobs described, along with community action groups which fought against the razing of their neighborhoods in the name of progress.<br />What Jane Jacobs has done is simply collect a set of anecdotes and provide a &quot;from the hip&quot; commentary on Modern planning solutions, without any serious research into the subject.  If she had taken a closer look, she would have seen how Le Corbusier's own ideas evolved greatly since he first extolled the industrial city, and how architects and planners, influenced by Le Corbusier's recent directions, were already calling for a more human scale in urban development. But, Ms. Jacobs wanted to shock the public and did so by pointing out the worst in Modernism, and holding up a handful of New York and Chicago neighborhoods as the models for sympathetic development.  The book is badly dated with much finer work on the subject available through this bookstore.ok, she would have seen how Le Corbusier's own ideas evolved greatly since he first extolled the industrial city, and how architects and planners, influenced by Le Corbusier's recent directions, were already calling for a more human scale in urban development. But, Ms. Jacobs wanted to shock the public and did so by pointing out the worst in Modernism, and holding up a handful of New York and Chicago neighborhoods as the models for sympathetic development.  The book is badly dated with much finer work on the subject available through this bookstore.	2002-06-16
US	51394793	R2KHT3MSLN0QRR	3822860476	753579118	The Harvard Design School Guide to Shopping / Harvard Design School Project on the City 2	Books	3	7	11	N	N	A virtual shopping spree	Having leafed through this book and &quot;Great Leap Forward,&quot; I find myself bemused as to what all the fuss is about.  Koolhaas is apparently oh so cool! according to a recent Newsweek. There is little that is new here unless one considers placing an escalator inside Le Corbusier's Dom-ino skeleton novel.  It seems that Koolhaas and his chums have once again had great fun cutting and pasting from the past and present, to create a virtual tour through their cluttered minds of consumerist fantasies.	2002-04-26
US	51394793	RZF6GD5XWYF0J	0060159820	809715067	The Way to the Western Sea: Lewis and Clark Across the Continent	Books	5	14	17	N	Y	A most excellent adventure	David Lavender just may have written the definitive history of the Lewis and Clark expedition.  It is a wonderfully wrought narrative, capturing the full width and breadth of this incredible journey.  Lavender's sardonic tongue deflates many of the myths surrounding the &quot;voyage of discovery,&quot; noting that for the most part this was a well-trodden path.  The only actual &quot;discovery&quot; was that of linking the Missouri to the Columbia.  However, this makes it no less an adventure.<br />He downplays the significance of Sacagewea.  For the most part she was little used on this voyage.  Her one major contribution was helping to secure horses for the great fording of the Bitteroot Mountains.  Still, Lavender lavishes much attention on her and her son, which it seems that William Clark did as well.  Her presence seemed to secure safe passage during their final leg down the Columbia River, as it made the expedition team seem less war-like.<br />Lavender also provides the background for the voyage, detailing President Jefferson's dream to establish an American Northwest Passage, linking one ocean to another.  Lavender probes the seemingly paternal relationship between Jefferson and Lewis, and how Jefferson was able to win Congress over to a third attempt to cross the continent, despite questions regarding Lewis' qualifications.  Jefferson personally trained Lewis for the expedition and provided added tutelage in the form of the leading lights of American science.  Like a devoted son, Lewis made every effort to carry out the mission, which Jefferson sponsored, even when it seemed foolhardy to do so.<br />For those who haven't travelled this route before, you will be in good hands with David Lavender.  For those who have, I think you will marvel at how masterful a job Lavender does in recording the events, giving the best rounded version of the &quot;voyage of discovery&quot; that I have read.	2001-11-27
US	51394793	R2RR353W6FWJ8K	0679776443	879822150	Dead Souls	Books	5	18	24	N	Y	Another fine translation by Pevear and Volokhonsky	Pevear and Volokhonsky have done it again.  Another fine translation of a Russian classic.  The art of the Russian novel begins with &quot;Dead Souls,&quot; although Gogol himself likened this great work to a poema.  Upon its first release, &quot;Dead Souls&quot; immediately won a place in the Russian heart.  Chichikov and the various characters that he came in contact with in this strange journey became Russian archetypes.  Unfortunately, Gogol could never bring Chichikov's adventures to a close, but this novel does not suffer for it.<br />What makes the P&amp;V translation stand out are the numerous reference notes, so that one can understand the many allusions that Gogol makes.  P&amp;V have masterfully rendered Gogol's protean metaphors and delightful similes, so that one can sense the poetic nature in which this novel has been written.<br />The &quot;demonic&quot; plot is most intriguing but what really carries this story are the many wonderful characters that Gogol has artfully rendered, each trying to figure out why Chichikov is so interested in buying their &quot;dead souls,&quot; deceased serfs that are still on the census and therefore subject to taxes.	2001-11-27
US	51394793	R3HMPHFFEGCZCC	0684826976	646280776	Undaunted Courage:  Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the American West	Books	3	22	24	N	N	An overwrought narration	Stephen Ambrose travels well-trodden ground in presenting yet another version of the Lewis and Clark expedition.  He chooses to focus mainly on Meriweather Lewis and his relationship to Thomas Jefferson.  It was officially Lewis' expedition, but the young Lewis strongly felt that it was a journey he shared equally with William Clark.  Unfortunately, Mr. Ambrose treated Clark as an ancillary figure, and the reader doesn't get a full impression of Clark's accomplishments on this voyage.<br />It struck me that Ambrose wrote this narrative more for his own personal sense of discovery than he did that of Lewis and Clark.  We are told repeatedly that Ambrose has made this journey himself several times, after being drawn into the story by an old volume of Nicholas Biddle that was given to him by an aunt.  Biddle was the first to transcribe the voyage of discovery in 1814, after Lewis had died and Clark was left to try to get their copius journals in print.  The first full-length treatment of the voyage was presented by Reuben Gold Thwaites in 1904, upon the centennial of their debarkation date.  Since then we have also been treated to narratives by Bernard De Voto and David Lavender, both of which are far superior to Ambrose's rendition.  Gary Moulton has recently completed the definitive set of journals replete with maps and drawings done by Lewis and Clark and four other members of the voyage of discovery.<br />Ambrose provides no new light to this heavily documented voyage.  Instead, he seems to fawn over their every accomplishment, constantly noting all the &quot;firsts&quot; when in actual fact there were very few &quot;firsts&quot; on this &quot;voyage of discovery.&quot;  The route had been covered many times before at various stages.  The only real first was that of linking the Missouri to the Columbia River and providing the first full-length map of this river course.  But this does not seem to daunt Ambrose who never seems to run out of praise for Lewis and even Clark at times.<br />However, he does become more critical of Lewis in later chapters, as the stress of the voyage begins to wear on him.  I found most of these criticisms to be rather weak, especially Ambrose's insistence that Lewis' melancholia had become acute.  Lewis did indeed suffer depression after the voyage but there was little to indicate that he suffered from anything more than anxiety during the voyage.  Needless to say, such an undertaking was a huge strain on a man who celebrated his 30th birthday in route to the Pacific and I think Lewis held up marvellously well under the circumstances, thanks in large part to the ever-patient William Clark.n Clark at times.<br />However, he does become more critical of Lewis in later chapters, as the stress of the voyage begins to wear on him.  I found most of these criticisms to be rather weak, especially Ambrose's insistence that Lewis' melancholia had become acute.  Lewis did indeed suffer depression after the voyage but there was little to indicate that he suffered from anything more than anxiety during the voyage.  Needless to say, such an undertaking was a huge strain on a man who celebrated his 30th birthday in route to the Pacific and I think Lewis held up marvellously well under the circumstances, thanks in large part to the ever-patient William Clark.	2001-11-27
US	51394793	R2M4RQEOSTEQO	0312267940	147315719	The Year of Decision 1846	Books	5	44	48	N	N	An incredible breadth of vision	Bernard De Voto is one of our most eminent American historians and 1846 is considered to be one of his best works.  He does what few historians are able to do and that is to capture the pulse of American expansionist desire.  He does so by using a variety of novelistic devices to give added emotional weight to the events that transpired in this very decisive year in American history.  Underscoring the narrative is De Voto's razor-sharp wit, which deflates most of the grand ambitions of the leading figures in 1846.<br />De Voto develops several paralleling stories: that of the great Mormon migration, the ill-fated Donner Party, Fremont's attempt to establish the Bear Flag Republic in California, the attempts to secure Texas and the New Mexico and Oregon territories, all during a time in which President Polk fought for America's Manifest Destiny against Britain and Mexico.  De Voto develops a great number of characters, some well known, some lesser known, and weaves them together in an American quilt.  He sets up the events that would lead to the Mexican War and briefly describes some of the battles, taking aim mostly at the ineptitude of both armies and the political posturing of the various Whig generals.<br />It is an unbridled view of historical events.  At times, De Voto can be unmerciful in his attacks on the heroic postures that some of these leading figures took, and at other times quite sympathetic as he tries to make sense of the conflicting reports that were written.<br />He uses terms that may be offensive to some readers but these were the terms often employed by the figures of this era.  He provides a wealth of information from journals and diaries that were kept, often giving his account a &quot;first-hand&quot; quality.  De Voto sustains his incredible driving force throughout this narrative, capping it off with a pithy epilogue regarding the events that would grow out of the decisions made in 1846.	2001-11-27
US	51394793	RQKA9PFXPNLL	0375410538	924994086	Anil's Ghost	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A most elusive world of phantoms	Michael Ondaatje certainly has a gift for presenting elusive characters and situations, and none moreso than Anil and the Sri Lanka she chooses to return to.  One is swept away by Ondaatje's flowing narrative.  There is such a remarkable ease to his writing.  However, upon closer inspection something seems to be missing.<br />Ondaatje doesn't seem to really get into the minds of his characters.  They are more or less figurative pieces, almost poetic in nature, incapable of hard thought.  However, Anil is supposed to be a forensic specialist so one expects more out of her.  Her search for the identity of &quot;Sailor&quot; has all the allusions of being a self-exploratory search, but in the end we don't really find out much about Anil except a few odd facts.  Ondaatje uses forensics more as a metaphor than an actual pallbearer for his ideas.  Anil would have better served on a truth and reconciliation committee than in a special U.N. forensics team.<br />It leads me to wonder if Mr. Ondaatje actually found something upon his return to Sri Lanka, or rather chose to use this dystopic setting as a device for presenting his own disillusionment with the western world.  The ending is too pat, indicating to me that Ondaatje grew tired and weary, much like Anil, who never seemed to come to terms with her &quot;ghost.&quot;	2001-11-26
US	51394793	R1ONDJKZ2REAJS	0446608718	892029045	Just Revenge	Books	1	9	12	N	N	All bark and no bite	I was driven to read this book by all the publicity it garnered in Lithuania.  Dershowitz chose to target the country because he felt that it was dragging its heels when it came to prosecuting suspected Nazi war criminals.  The most high profile case was that of Aleksandras Liliekis, who had been residing in the United States before being forced to face extradition for his alledged role in the Holocaust.<br />Given the attention this book garnered, I expected to read something substantive on the case against Liliekis.  Instead, what Dershowitz has presented is a highly subjective work that bears very little resemblance to the actual case.  Dershowitz chose to explore the psychological aspects of revenge through his protagonist, Max Menchen, who survived the shootings that took place outside Kaunas.  Menchen managed to track down the Lithuanian SS officer who killed his family, including his baby son, and then set out to exact his revenge, supposedly based on the principles of Maimonides.<br />We are constantly reminded of the level of scholarship of Menchen, the narrator (one assumes Dershowitz) and the young woman who helped Menchen exact his revenge. But the level of scholarship in this novel is minimal.  Lithuanian names are improperly transcribed.  What little history of the Holocaust in Lithuania that Dershowitz provides is poorly rendered, and the Lithuanian-American lodge in this novel is portrayed as a den of war criminals rehashing their days in the Nazi special services in Lithuania.<br />I expected more out of Dershowitz.  Just Revenge amounts to little more than a standard courtroom pot-boiler that boils down to almost nothing in the end.	2001-11-26
US	51394793	R3HYPC4SYRGFNH	0827604157	532261185	Vilna (Jewish Communities Series)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A fascinating view into an overlooked city	Israel Cohen has presented a fascinating portrait of a city that owes much of its cultural legacy to the Yiddish community that thrived in it from the 15th century onward.  Cohen undertook this complex task prior to WWII and wrote an epilogue following the genocide that took place in Lithuania during the German occupation, 1941-3.<br />Cohen's judgement seemed to be reserved due to the fact that the genocide came as such a shock to the Jewish community.  Vilna was considered to be one of the few safe havens during World War II for Jews.  Vilnius had a remarkable history of being an open city, tolerant of a wide array of cultures and religions, which was what Mr. Cohen chose to focus on.  He made no excuses for the genocide but rather illustrated the dynamics of this ever-changing city and how Vilnius, and in turn Lithuania, simply was not able to bear up under the pressures of World War II.<br />He charted the various occupations of the city by the Poles, Russians, Soviets and Germans.  Lithuanians seemed to be almost peripheral figures in this dramatic ebb and flow.  An essentially benevolent nobility that offered its protection to the Yiddish community and constantly renewed its charters so that it could thrive within the often adverserial climate of the city.<br />All that changed with the Russian occupation in the 19th century.  Lithuanian Jews found themselves conscripted into the army just like Jews throughout the Russian empire, but somehow they managed to hold together a tight-knit community that had many leading lights including the most famous Gaon Elijah.<br />The book is well worth reading for it provides a rare glimpse into the dynamics of this Medieval city that was shaped by an astonishing array of forces.	2001-11-26
US	51394793	R2ASWZGPC3CVKL	1582181128	312406189	The Genesis of the Civil War: The Story of Sumter, 1860-61	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A first hand account of the siege of Fort Sumter.	For those who want an eyewitness account of those first fateful days leading to the Civil War, this is the story of the siege of Fort Sumter as  told by the physician in Robert Anderson's regiment who held its ground  when South Carolina tried to sieze all federal property.  It is a very  compelling story of Major Robert Anderson as he struggled with his Southern  sympathies and his Union loyalty in a maelstrom of poltical intrigue and  military posturing on both of sides of the Mason-Dixon line.	1999-10-31
US	51394793	R7AKUBCUDKK47	0805058370	439117283	Mason & Dixon: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A meandering tale of America's most famous straight line.	With Pynchon you never know what is real and what is imagined.  I found myself searching websites for the &quot;Pennsylvaniad&quot; by Timothy Tox.  I was swept away by this all-encompassing story.  &quot;Mason and  Dixon&quot; had the narrative flow of Whitman, teeming with beautiful  passages, wonderful word plays and an epic sense of history and mythology.  A very rewarding experience for those willing to succumb to Pynchon's  magic.	1999-10-23
US	51394793	R3RL3DFUQX9XBM	0060974680	359859252	Europe: A History	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A dense, richly flowing narrative.	There is a looseness to his narrative that is both compelling and frustrating.  &quot;Europe&quot; reads easily, more like a novel than a history, which at times made me wonder how much Davies bent historic events to suit his literary tastes.  The later chapters in which he chronicles the  18th and 19th centuries are the most compelling, tracing Napoleon's ride  through Europe like Phaethon's ill-fated chariot ride through the cosmos to  Hitler's ignoble campaign to the rise and fall of the Soviet Empire.  All  the historic antecendents are here.  Norman Davies charts the full width  and breadth of the continent.	1999-10-12
US	51394793	R2UG3LP4JGKO20	0300060785	155845220	The Baltic Revolution: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and the Path to Independence	Books	4	13	13	N	N	The Baltics finally get the attention they deserve.	Baltic history had been so long overlooked, at best it was relegated to footnotes in European history, that it was great to read a book totally devoted to the subject in the English language.  Lieven gives an excellent overview of events that led to the independence of these tiny republics in  the aftermath of the Soviet collapse.  Unfortunately, the information is  now dated.  So much has transpired since 1991 that the book needs to be  revised and updated.  While the other former Soviet republics struggle to  esatblish even the rudiments of a free-market economy, the Baltics are  thriving.  As Lieven pointed out, these countries have long European roots,  unfortunately they became entangled with Russian roots and their personal  histories became obscured.	1999-09-08
US	51394793	R2W60WVTXZ8PQO	0345396359	204492582	Better Than Sex: Confessions of a Political Junkie (Gonzo Papers, vol. 4)	Books	2	2	5	N	N	What Happened Gonzo?	I was drawn to this book after having read &quot;Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail of '72,&quot; expecting to find a similar tale of '92.  Alas, I was sadly disappointed.  If ever there was a candidate to take aim  at, it was Bill Clinton but for some mystical reason, Thompson let him  drift out of his sight.  Strange, since Thompson let no one escape his  unmerciful eye in '72.	1999-09-04
US	51394793	RTLX2QKCISL0K	0811210162	968230608	Promise at Dawn (Revived Modern Classic)	Books	3	2	6	N	Y	This Overwhelming Story Painfully Needed Some Editing	The story itself is powerful but the psychological asides and homophobic comments should have been excised, as they weakened what could have been a great book.  Gary seemed so worried about the Oedipal nature of his  relationship with his mother that he felt too compelled to defend himself.  The book was at its best when he stuck to the incredible story of his  mother, who ranks with Mother Courage in her ability to hold her own in the  most adverse of conditions.	1999-08-31
US	51394793	R396KPEGGM1EFD	0446313645	777201587	Fear and Loathing: On the Campaign Trail '72	Books	5	2	3	N	N	a classic insider's tale of a demented campaign	The Fear and Loathing for political junkies.  This is as good as it gets right down to his chance encounter with Trickie Dick himself.  What else can you talk about with a guy you hate so much than sports (except maybe  women)?  Thompson delivers a sterling send-up of a campaign that has  defined the nature of political campaigning ever since.  As timely today as  it was then.	1999-08-27
US	51394793	R1XY14CZRJFEAT	0679764534	734383389	Knopf Guide: Paris (Knopf Guides)	Books	3	7	12	N	Y	Beautiful but dated travel guide	The Paris guide book is a visually stunning travel guide but its themes are dated, evoking a pre-war Paris of writers and painters and strolls along the Champs Elysees, when today Paris is a much more consumer-based  society with all the trappings of American cities.  We managed to find an  affordable hotel with Parisian charm but with little thanks to this book.  The maps are little more than cryptic diagrams, making it difficult to find  the enticing restaurants the guide lists.  Much of the information needs to  be updated to serve as a true guide book.  Knopf Guide Paris, like the  other books in this series, are richly illustrated and give you interesting  historic insights into the city but will only disappoint you if you rely on  them to circumnvaigate the city.	1999-06-28
US	51394793	R35B6DDIU9TJU4	0679764526	353697572	Knopf Guide: The Louvre (Knopf Guides)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A treasure trove of richly detailed images	A treasure trove of images and information making it almost redundant to go to the Louvre itself.  Too bad there are not guides like this for the Musee D'Orsay and other museums of Paris.  It seems that the guide should  have been expanded to include the other museums since the Knopf city guide  book gives the others so little space.	1999-06-28
