US	51395322	R2IILDGMY51RXI	1550225243	306244741	Finding New Goddesses: Reclaiming Playfulness in Our Spiritual Lives	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Lighten up with this fun collection of  modern Goddesses	It's not that worshipping the old ones is boring (can't say that working with powerful Pele, or with trickster enegy such as that of Loki doesn't have its moments), but can they help you find the perfect shopping mall? Spendifera, Goddess of the Mall can. Who do you invoke while worshipping at the altar of your favorite fast food restaurant feasting on guilty pleasures? How about McVitual, Goddess of Fast Food? Who do you invoke while at the gym toning that perfect Pagan body? Buffy, Goddess of the Gym, of course!  Do we always have to take ourselves so seriously? The answer here clearly is no! Finding New Goddesses puts the fun back into the fundamentals of Goddess Spirituality.<br />Ardinger, has written some wonderful, serious books, such as Goddess Meditations, Practicing the Presence of the Goddess and a Women's Book of Rituals &amp; Celebrations. With Finding New Goddesses, Ardinger lets loose and provides Goddess worshippers a clever, humorous A-Z encyclopedia of Goddesses for 21st century life. <br />The Gods and Goddesses of old can help us deal with the bigger pictures in our lives, such as wealth, health, and love. But this book is chock full of new Goddesses invented to help us through the day-to-day struggles of modern life, such as finding parking spaces, finding/coping with temp jobs, dealing with technological issues, shopping, daycare, credit cards, etc.<br />&quot;Hail Trivia, keen of mind, I forget again what I must find. Refresh my memory, help me focus, in you do all things have their locus.&quot; Along with Trivia, Goddess of Details, there's Agenda, Goddess of Meetings, Daymentia, the Goddess of Temp Jobs, Kickapoo, Goddess of Professional Wrestling, Queuemulus, Goddess of Standing in Line, Roadesia, Goddess of Freeways, Country Roads and City Streets. Not many stones are left unturned as you will see, Dot Compost, Goddess of Spam, Fixorrhea, Goddess of Duct Tape, and this librarian's personal favorite, Litterata, Goddess of books (who I worship in excess!). These are some of the many ideas for modern deities one can invent. <br />There's plenty of wit and humor mixed into the Goddess backgrounds, chants, ritual ideas, meditations and visualizations that Ardinger provides. She also shares some thoughts with us on playfulness in spiritual writing, playing with words, Found Goddesses and finding new Goddesses every day. <br />More than providing a little levity to our spiritual lives, this book is a great tool to spark the imagination. Bring some fun into solitary, group or community celebrations. Use it as a tool to encourage outside the box thinking. For spiritual writers, writing groups and writing coaches or teachers, some great writing exercises could be fashioned around this book. See how you can expand on the Goddesses in these pages. Or, challenge yourself or others to create their own imaginary deities, or new totem animals.  Name and describe them, write their lore, create poems, affirmations or chants in their honor, and fashion rituals or other magickal workings around them. This can do a lot to liven up writing classes or workshops, or classes covering deity worship and invocation. <br />If I hadn't been languishing so long at the altar of my sometimes overwhelming personal Goddess, Procrastinata, I would have reviewed this book much sooner!  This makes a great gift idea for the light at heart among us and is suitable for any level of spiritual practice.	2003-08-02
US	51395322	R3BJUA21EOZ1J3	0738701750	744474133	Everyday Tarot Magic: Meditation & Spells	Books	5	25	27	N	Y	Create magick sublime with tarot and enchanting rhyme!	I don't know how Dorothy Morrison does it. But she has created another fine book full of magick and charm, this time using the tarot as a magickal tool for spellwork. She provides readers with a very brief introduction to tarot cards and their history, a chapter on using the cards for self-discovery (combining tarot with numerology), some brief appendixes on color, herbal, and stone correspondences, 3 card layouts for divination, and a brief bibliography of source materials.<br />The heart of the book is devoted to spellwork (over 140 spells) for a variety of intentions that utilize tarot cards. They are simple workings designed to be used on their own, or, simple enough that you can enhance a more involved ritual working with one of these spells. Morrison also encourages readers, if they feel so inclined, to change, adapt or embellish the individual workings as they see fit. <br />Morrison has a rhyme for just about everything. She even starts the book off with a poem that introduces readers to its history and uses. Her workings are full of affirmative rhyming words to power-up the spell. &quot;Fear, be gone-I take your power, Your well-laid plans have now gone sour&quot; (from a spell against unfounded fears). <br />From there, some of the spells lead you to just light a candle, focus on the card and recite the affirmative chant. Some lead you into a little guided journeying, while others have you perform some action with the card itself. So a word of warning is in order. You will need to use a deck, perhaps an old one you don't use anymore, or one you buy just for the purpose of spellwork. This is because some of the cards will be burned, flushed away, buried, marked up or otherwise used in order to complete the spellworking. <br />Morrison suggests one excellent way around this problem--use photocopies of the cards. If you have one of those copier/scanner/printers for your computer like I do, you can even make color copies!<br />Although designed with simplicityfor the beginner, I would highly recommend that those not familiar with spellwork acquaint themselves with the practices and ethics involved before beginning to use this book. It will insure that pitfalls are avoided and that you obtain the best results possible. There is a too brief explanation (for beginners) on the matter of the three-fold law of magick and the importance of focus, concentration and will on the success of the spellwork. <br />But for the majority of tarot aficionados, who want to explore more uses of the tarot in their everyday lives and for magickal practitioners looking for ways in which to use the tarot in their magickal practices, this book is an excellent choice for furthering your explorations.	2003-01-01
US	51395322	R1I0JAEKSCU6KQ	0312269986	327897793	Tao Oracle: An Illuminated New Approach to the I Ching	Books	5	45	48	N	N	A stunning artistic rendering of the ancient I-Ching	Deal with the here and now effectively with this in-depth divination tool. The ancient Chinese method of acquiring wisdom, the I-Ching, comes alive through the awesome art work of the Tao Oracle by Ma Deva Padma. This deck makes the I-Ching entirely accessible to beginners, and the cards' depth and beauty is sure to captivate even advanced practitioners of divination. <br />From my dabblings with divinatory devices, I believe I can go out on a limb and say that this is the best new divination tool of the year 2002. Padma is also known for the beautiful Osho Zen Tarot, a Tarot deck designed for those concerned with living fully in the present moment. Besides artwork you can just melt right into, there are a lot of other things going for the Tao Oracle. <br />First, I don't know how you could just pass this deck up on the shelf without giving it a second, or third look. Its earth-toned, sturdy outer packaging depicts card #27, &quot;The corners of the mouth&quot;. The card shows a meditative, serene face with a white flowering tree superimposed over the right side of the face. It denotes the importance of achieving body-mind balance towards maintaining good health.<br />The cards themselves are named, numbered, and each includes extremely helpful word associations. The card's I-Ching symbol appears in the lower right and special symbols created by Padma are on the lower left to help emphasize the natures at work in the I-Ching symbol. <br />At the top, a Yin-Yang symbol depicts the colors associated with the hexagram, which again, reinforce the duality of forces at work on the card. Sometimes these forces are in harmony, reinforcing each other, sometimes they conflict, showing challenges to be overcome.<br />The well-organized accompanying text contains direct, thorough interpretations of the cards and Padma shows us that her talents for visualization are not just through art, but through words as well. There is a detailed interpretation  of the card followed by an interpretation of the individual lines of the card's hexagram.<br />There are some well-crafted spreads at the back of the book, including a one-card daily &quot;pearl of wisdom&quot; reading. Should you want more information on the &quot;pearl&quot;, or, on the card in the &quot;insight&quot; position in the other layouts, you can use 3 coins like you would when consulting the traditional I-Ching, in order to create a new hexagram. <br />This is where it gets a little complicated so be sure to carefully read the section on this, it's not that hard to follow, and it will be worth your while.  You will be surprised at the new insights you will obtain when you add this step into your reading.<br />What I especially like is the Tao Oracle's emphasis on the present moment...not some far-flung future predictions. It focuses readers' attention on the thought patterns, habits or actions they are dealing with presently. The future will come about based on what one is doing today -- that's where attention really needs to be focused. <br />All in all, the Tao Oracle is a feast for the eyes as well as for the spirit. Though fine for the bright beginner, advanced practitioners of divination will more immediately appreciate the depth of this tool for self-awareness.  It's an incredibly beautiful, well-designed divination tool at a very reasonable price.	2002-12-28
US	51395322	R1ALS2AJ98GPHN	1561708488	973796930	Miracle Cards	Books	5	43	43	N	N	Beautiful snapshots of the miracles of everyday life	\\"Achievement doesn't come from what we do, but from who we are...\\" (from the card titled Personal Power). Marianne Williamson shows us quite a bit about herself in this, her latest work. In this beautiful boxed set of 50 cards, Williamson shows us how to confront many areas of  human experience and some of the issues we individually, and collectively face. <br />She provides universal truths derived from many faiths and traditions, with the main concept revolving around the idea that, all that is good is derived out of love. On the Health and Healing card, she states, \\"Illness is a sign of separation from God, and our healing lies in returning to him. The return to God is merely the return to love\\". <br />Beautiful photographic images adorn the very durable cards, with one side, displaying the subject, the other side, the words of inspiration. Besides those already discussed, topics include: personal power, the future of the planet, war and peace, life and death, learning from children, relationships, healthy eating, and God's love.<br />Regardless your spiritual orientation, you will find peace, comfort and renewed hope by reading these inspiring cards. Try choosing one at random each day and living its principles, or, look for the applications in your life that day.<br />One only wishes that there were an accompanying booklet where Williamson could elaborate further on some of these spiritual concepts. But, if you want to explore Williamson's ideas more indepth, the cards are derived from some of her previous works, such as: Illuminata, A women's Worth, and a Return to Love.<br />This makes a wonderful gift for yourself or someone close, perhaps in need of a little TLC. Enjoy and take some of these words to heart. Williamson, lecturer and best-selling author, is also a spiritual leader at Renaissance Unity Church in Warren, MI.	2002-07-21
US	51395322	RK5HD348BXZ6	052594673X	978544299	Oh, the Things I Know! A Guide to Success, or, Failing That, Happiness	Books	4	31	36	N	N	Oh the fun you'll have while feeling totally demoralized!	Al Franken...you really need to give all the proceeds of this book to your wife...and maybe that will begin to make up for all the fun we're having at her expense! Franken, author of one of my most favorite titled books of all time, \\"Rush Limbaugh Is A Big Fat Idiot\\", scores another winner with this little book.<br />With his sharp wit and conversational style (you can almost hear him speaking these words while you read them), he leads us through the too-often-times hellacious rollercoaster ride of life. He starts with college graduation and goes forward, till the bitter end of life and beyond. It's quite a journey through most of life's misadventures.<br />The title, is done in Dr. Seussian style and that style is repeated throughout the contents. Examples include chapters titled: \\"Oh, you shouldn't skip the introduction\\"; \\"Oh, the drugs you will take\\"; \\"Oh, the orgasms you will fake\\".<br />In the drug chapter, he advises people to use drugs responsibly, and that he would be a hypocrite to say not to use them at all, as he is high on drugs right now \\"prescription drugs, but drugs nonetheless\\". I can believe that one, but I can't believe his statement in \\"Oh pick a religion, any religion\\", that \\"he has absolutely no idea what he will write next\\". Franken knows what he wants to say and how to say it.<br />There's a whole lot of practical advice -- ok, maybe not so practical. Some examples include: every marriage has a \\"stomach-turning\\" phase you need to get yourself through. Or, how about, \\"try to view your stay in a nursing home as merely temporary, because in one way or another, it is\\". There's some advice for men: resist the temptation to cheat on your wife, and try instead to make sex with her reasonably diverting, by thinking about a younger, more attractive woman.<br />Along with his suffering wife, he gets some jabs in at Bill Gates, Kenneth Lay, Ann Quindlen and Maria Shriver to name a few. He shamelessly dedicates his book to that inspiration to us all, (especially to wannabe book-of-the-month club authors such as himself), Oprah.<br />All in all a funny book, almost worthy of five stars. \\"AL\\" (see the drug chapter) would probably want me to conclude this review by saying something like, oh well, if you can't be successful, just be happy. \\"AL\\" Franken does makes us feel happy, despite all of our shortcomings, or perhaps, because of them.(especially to wannabe book-of-the-month club authors such as himself), Oprah. <br />All in all a funny book, almost worthy of five stars. \\"AL\\" (see the drug chapter) would probably want me to conclude this review by saying something like, oh well, if you can't be successful, just be happy. \\"AL\\" Franken does makes us feel happy, despite all of our shortcomings, or perhaps, because of them.	2002-05-03
US	51395322	R3MG3LA6PS9Q1P	0609608916	35398552	Who Cut The Cheese? - An A-Mazing Parody about Change (and How We Can Get Our Hands on Yours)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Cheesy? No. A truer (than the original) tale of the rat race	For those out there who have felt forced, or coerced by management, to have to read the book, \\"Who moved my cheese\\", you will immediately see the immense humor of this parody by Jarlsberg. Sadly, you will also see the truth. In page layout, writing style and book size, \\"Who Cut the Cheese\\" is an incredibly funny, yet all too true, twisted retelling of the small, best-selling management book. <br />Do not feel that you have to read \\"Who Moved My Cheese\\" in order to appreciate the humor of this book. It stands alone...and is a much better read, frankly. And if you must waste money on yet another business management book, why not have some fun with it? Change IS good after all!<br />One can only wonder if the sole purpose behind reading the other book, \\"Who moved my cheese\\" is just to make long-time, loyal employees pack their bags and leave their companies in search of  real cheese elsewhere...and some respect.  To seek out employment in a place where the people you work for might appreciate the fact that you do indeed have a brain. Because there is nothing in that book that most employees don't already know about managing change. <br />Jarlsberg's book, however, cleverly uncovers what's really going on in workplaces today. He shows how employees find their own unique, if not sometimes underhanded or downright evil, ways of coping with change, and that change can be good.  And the authors didn't even pay me a dime to say all that, although they are laughing their way to the bank, I'd imagine. So, too, are the authors of that other cheese book...I think, buying this one instead, is money better spent.	2002-04-06
US	51395322	R1PQNESM8JC2M	1567182852	70820629	The Complete Book of Tarot Reversals (Special Topics in Tarot Series)	Books	5	57	59	N	Y	Brilliant insights into an often overlooked aspect of Tarot	With &quot;Tarot Reversals&quot;, Mary K. Greer (author of, &quot;Essence of Magic&quot;, &quot;Tarot Mirrors&quot;, &quot;Tarot For Yourself&quot;) has created possibly one of the best Tarot resources for the serious student of Tarot divination. I don't want to repeat much of what other reviewers have said thus far, as they have covered the material well. Instead, I will try to add to their insights.<br />Many Tarot professionals don't use reversed interpretations. This is all well and good. But the numerous books out there that do deal with the concept of interpreting Tarot cards reversed, usually fall short in interpreting reversals. This could leave one to draw the conclusion that reversals are of minor importance in a spread, which is absolutely not true.<br />Greer corrects this inequity with a book that, not only focuses on the concept of reversals, but equally weights the upright and reversed interpretations of the cards. So you not only get the flip-side interpretation of the Tarot, you get an indepth analysis of the cards in both upright and reversed positions, making this a highly valuable resource for professional and novice alike. Along with this indepth analysis, Greer also offers a very brief, &quot;traditional&quot; interpretation of the cards, both upright and reversed.<br />The interpretations are the meat of the text. The introduction and the first two chapters set the stage, discussing the book's concept, providing specialized terms used in the text, viewing Tarot from a different perspective (reversals are more than just negative interpretations) and how to go about using reversals.<br />There are a number of wonderful spreads provided at the back of the book, some of which require you to use all reversed cards, an incredibly innovative concept. The Hanged Man spread is visionary, having you read the cards in each positions as both upright and reversed; upright indicating an outer perspective on the issue, and, reversed being the inner perspective of the issue.<br />Thankfully, Greer doesn't waste a lot of space on sample readings. Instead, she provides one in significant detail, and even gives readers exercises they can do in conjunction with that sample reading, for further learning adventures.<br />For greater historical background and Tarot overview, novices may wish to supplement this text with one other well-rounded introduction to the Tarot, such as, Joan Bunning's, &quot;Learning the Tarot&quot; (included in Greer's bibliography), or, Cassandra Eason's, &quot;Complete Guide to the Tarot&quot;. But this is, by far, one of the best indepth book of Tarot interpretations out there today. There's a wealth of information here for the advanced practitioner as well.<br />Llewellyn should be commended for the nice layout and design of this book and for exploring these less-covered aspects of working with the Tarot. I hope this first book in the &quot;Special Topics in Tarot Series&quot;, is indicative of the quality of books yet to come. I see that one of Greer's forthcoming titles is one entitled, &quot;Tarot Court&quot;, which I hope will be covering yet another often misunderstood element of the Tarot, the Minor Arcana Court cards. Let's hope we can look forward to more quality publications like these on the Tarot.ctive of the issue. <br />Thankfully, Greer doesn't waste a lot of space on sample readings. Instead, she provides one in significant detail, and even gives readers exercises they can do in conjunction with that sample reading, for further learning adventures.<br />For greater historical background and Tarot overview, novices may wish to supplement this text with one other well-rounded introduction to the Tarot, such as, Joan Bunning's, &quot;Learning the Tarot&quot; (included in Greer's bibliography), or, Cassandra Eason's, &quot;Complete Guide to the Tarot&quot;. But this is, by far, one of the best indepth book of Tarot interpretations out there today. There's a wealth of information here for the advanced practitioner as well. <br />Llewellyn should be commended for the nice layout and design of this book and for exploring these less-covered aspects of working with the Tarot. I hope this first book in the &quot;Special Topics in Tarot Series&quot;, is indicative of the quality of books yet to come. I see that one of Greer's forthcoming titles is one entitled, &quot;Tarot Court&quot;, which I hope will be covering yet another often misunderstood element of the Tarot, the Minor Arcana Court cards. Let's hope we can look forward to more quality publications like these on the Tarot.	2002-03-24
US	51395322	R1HBFE7PZRRLYL	0806522003	779864403	Morgan Le Fay's Book Of Spells And Wiccan Rites	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Enchanting words enhance well-crafted, engaging rituals	Author Jennifer Reif, has not descended from a long line of Witches,  nor been trained in any particular branch of the Craft, just book-taught like many in the Craft today. None-the-less, she has put together an awesome treasury of rituals and spells simple enough for every level of magickal practitioner, but complicated enough that I would recommend this for more experienced practitioners. <br />Novices need to develop some basic skills and knowledge before tackling some of these spells. Still, anyone with an interest in honoring deities in their many cultural guises, through ritual or spellwork, should add this truly inspired compilation to their magickal libraries.<br />There is a brief history of Witchcraft &amp; Wicca in the beginning and very brief background on the author herself. The rest is devoted entirely to wonderfully diverse magickal workings. They are subdivided into groupings, such as rituals for: Strength and Power --To Athena, Warrior Goddess for inner strength and power, The Veil of Isis to awaken confidence and determination; Honorable Endings and Farewells -- Banshee Macha to end malicious gossip, To the Ancient Crone for the passing of a pet; For Prosperity and Success -- Enchantment of Sri Lakshmi for prosperity; and a Multifarious Miscellany -- including, Spiral of the Delphic Oracle to obtain the answer to a question, and the Rite of the Non-ritual for joy in the moment. I am just touching the surface of what's included in this text.<br />It is my goal someday to perform Reif's, knock your socks off larger group ritual, Song of the Sacred Grove, a beautiful rite invoking and honoring the magic of Celtic trees. The rituals can be one day, or more in length...the Sri Lakshmi ritual is a 3-day working.<BR> <BR>All rituals have a level of complexity that will engage and absorb practitioner(s). Along with the body of each rite, Reif provides a supply list, altar setup instructions, ritual timing and other instructions. Words are rhythmic and truly inspired. Reif has been studying and working with nature and ancient cultures since 1983. It shows through in this work. I pray that this is not the last we hear from her.	2002-02-16
US	51395322	R38YC0NN54HE4H	006447299X	557103386	Circle of Three #9: Through the Veil	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Cooper, Kate &amp; Annie part the veil &amp; change their lives	With another great turning of the Wheel of the Year, Cooper, Kate and Annie continue to grow and change like the year itself.  Cooper makes an important decision regarding the direction her music is taking her and new connections are made. She also is forced to deal with the unhappiness and uncertainty of her parents separation.<br />Kate continues to deal with the fallout from telling her parents she's studying Wicca. This story finds her under virtual house arrest with no privacy, her belongings are searched, magical tools get taken away, emails and phone calls are monitored and she's unable to attend Wicca class, see or talk to her Wiccan boyfriend Tyler, or see her friends outside of school.  On top of all of that, she's forced to see a psychiatrist too...could things get any worse?! Thankfully, the mood is about to change.<br />But the focus of the story is on Annie. The wheel has now turned to the season of Samhain, the Witches New Year, when the veil separating the realm of the living and the realm of the dead is very thin. Annie is frightened and haunted by recurring dreams of her parents and the fire she accidentally started. She begins to hear their  voices calling to her. She realizes that she must begin to deal with the guilt she's been harboring all these years concerning her parents untimely death. She starts by asking her aunt for a birthday gift to help her on her way to healing.<br />Bird continues to enchant with three down-to-earth teen characters, practicing the Craft of Wicca, much like it is practiced today. The story has a somewhat syrupy ending, but it does remind those who practice Wicca, of some of the emotional, profound or life-changing experiences that they themselves may have experienced on the Wiccan path.<br />Bird has really developed these characters well and this book brings readers closer to them than ever. All of this and a wonderful, beautifully constructed Samhain ritual too. Fans will enjoy this latest installment in the series. Others interested in the magical adventure that life can be are strongly encouraged to read the wonderful books in the Circle of Three Series.	2002-01-20
US	51395322	R2YJR0YH2VWT80	1582970882	475682405	The Wicca Pack	Books	4	19	19	N	Y	A tool that doubles as a teaching aid about  the Wiccan Way	The Wicca Pack consists of 42 divinatory cards and an accompanying 128 page, richly-illustrated book, all in its own sturdy case... Sally Morningstar has created a very nice tool at a great price.<br />The 42 unnumbered cards are beautiful renditions of some of the animals, concepts, deities, magickal beings, places of power, symbols, and tools connected to the Wiccan belief system.  Each card has a word association below the identity of the card's image. Wand/Intention, Cave/Retreat, Spell/Enlightenment, Horned God/Life Force are some examples of the images depicted.  <br />Just about half of the accompanying book is devoted to the cards -- their layout and interpretation. Interpretations include card vibration, keywords, card high and low notes, background, meaning, and a magickal exercise. <br />There are five spreads provided for card layout, a 7-card chakra spread, a 7-card relationship spread, a 6-card star spread, a traditional 3-card past/present/future spread and a one-card draw. I am a little surprised that Morningstar didn't include the Wheel of the Year spread as it certainly is a highly appropriate layout suggestion. Really, almost any type of spread would work with this deck.<br />Aside from the aforementioned pages devoted to card layout and interpretation, Morningstar also provides a Correspondence Table, Term Glossary, Address List and Index at the back of the book.  The rest of the pages are devoted to information on the history, beliefs, practices and seasonal celebrations of Wicca. Morningstar includes a chapter on crafting magickal tools and provides spell or ritual ideas throughout the book.<br />One problem I had is that, despite the nice organization of the book, card interpretations weren't organized alphabetically, nor their pages listed individually in the contents, for easy information retrieval. Also,  though I think she made a worthy attempt, the author was a bit  too ambitious in trying to provide so much information regarding Wicca. Perhaps she should have steered the interested to other, richer resources on the topic. <br />It would have been much nicer instead to have more integration between the cards and the Wiccan Sabbats, Esbats or provide other ritual/magickal uses for the cards.<br />Despite these few shortcomings, those interested in the divinatory arts and/or Wicca will love working with this deck and will find appropriate ways to incorporate these cards into their divination work or spiritual dabblings. Those who just want to learn more about Wicca will now have a very unique way in which to do so. Recommended for divination and magickal practitioners of all skill levels.	2002-01-02
US	51395322	R142CPAGZ3UUJY	1572813164	351971830	Tarot Affirmations: For Positive Growth and Change	Books	5	35	36	N	N	A Powerful tool designed to promote positive growth &amp; change	This oversized deck will please all who are into self-exploration through the Tarot. The deck is illustrated by Pamela Colman Smith and recolored by Mary Hanson-Roberts. <br />Each of the 78-cards has a small rendition of the images from the Universal Waite Tarot Deck. The larger portion of each card is devoted to appropriate affirmations to go along with the imagery of that particular card. Appropriate, in that the affirmations, mirror quite nicely the popular interpretation of the Tarot. Text writer, Sally Hill does an outstanding job of writing affirmations for each of the 78 cards. <br />There can be some very difficult images to handle in the Tarot. For example, the Ten of Swords, is traditionally depicted as ten swords through the back of an individual, indicative of treachery of some kind around the querent, or a feeling that all are against an individual. It is hard to see anything positive when looking at that image.  But Hill manages to take this image and show the positive chances for growth to occur under these trying circumstances.  She assigns the card affirmations, such as, &quot;I am dealing with negative thoughts that pin me down; I am seeking release from inner confusion and conflicts&quot;, and, &quot;I am finding ways to recover my energy and rise to new life&quot;. Also, the Court Cards are thought by some to be the most difficult cards to interpret in the deck. The affirmations Hill associates with the Court Cards provide greater insights into these cards.<br />Using Tarot Affirmations promotes a greater understanding of Tarot imagery and will give depth to the traditional meanings behind the cards. This deck is useful for daily self-analysis, meditation, or to delve deeper into the mysteries of the Tarot. Beginners and advanced students alike, will benefit and grow from the positive messages displayed on these Tarot cards.	2001-12-31
US	51395322	R1B9KKAOYQ2TCH	073870105X	987532566	Tarot for All Seasons: Celebrating the Days & Nights of Power	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Terrific Tarot Readings to enhance seasonal celebrations	The publisher may have been laying it on a little thick when they describe this book as part spellbook and part ritual guide. It does try a bit too hard to be a little of everything. What this book does best is provide a Tarot reading that correspond with each of the Wiccan Wheel of the Year celebrations. <br />Author Christine Jette (author of Tarot Shadow-Work  &amp; Tarot for the Healing Heart) directs her talent for Tarot work towards creating a spread for each of the 8 Wiccan Sabbats as well as spreads for the waxing (Maiden), full (Mother) and waning (Crone) moons, and 3-card spread variations that lend greater depth to these readings as needed.<br />She provides some background into the moontimes and their associated Maiden, Mother and Crone symbology, and the significance of the 8 Sabbats and corresponding times of the year. For each, Jette includes ritual accoutrements such as, altar decorations, ritual scents, brews, candles, and tarot cards to use as symbols for the celebrations. <br />Jette also provides readers with samples of all the readings in the book. She also gives a brief introduction to the Tarot in the beginning  and a well-written, concise section in the back of the book of upright and reversed card interpretations.<br />But the main selling point of this text are the individual spreads which are well crafted, incorporating one or more aspects relating to each of the Wheel of the Year or the 3 Esbat (Moon) celebrations.  For example, the Imbolc (or Candlemas), February 2, reading explores growth and new beginnings and can be used &quot;to make plans, gain strength, heal, and attain creative inspiration&quot;.  The Spring Equinox spread is called Metamorphosis, and celebrates the transformation of the cold, barren Winter to the fresh green growth of Spring.  <br />Some of the readings, such as the Mabon (Fall Equinox) spread, have cards that are meant to be read in pairs. For example the Mabon spread provides an inner focus and an outer focus for key areas, mirroring the Fall celebration's theme of balance. Night and day are in balance, so too, are the inner and outer pairings in this spread.<br />I only wish there was more than one seasonal spread per turning of the wheel. Perhaps the moon phases and other moon spreads could have been explored in their own book, as there is plenty to focus on with that topic alone.  But the readings provided by Jette in Tarot for All Seasons are great ways in which to use the Tarot as part of seasonal rites and celebrations. Or, they can just be used without the pomp and ceremony as part of one's own personal divinations throughout the yearly cycle of growth and change. <br />Recommended for all levels of users from novice to advanced, especially for those interested in Wicca, Witchcraft or seasonal magick.	2001-12-31
US	51395322	RD03QUWSUEJBJ	0064472949	784361912	What the Cards Said (Circle of Three, Book 4)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	&quot;Miss Fortune&quot; is Tarot-able (or terrible) trouble for Annie	Annie gets a &quot;karmic spanking&quot; and learns some hard lessons when she uses her special psychic &quot;gifts&quot; at school to become popular. Book 4, in the Circle of Three series by Isobel Bird, follows the lives of three teens, Kate, Annie and Cooper, as they continue their journey through the world of Wicca and discover the magic and mystery within their everyday lives.<br />When her friends convince her to dress up and play &quot;Miss Fortune, Tarot reader and seer into the future&quot; for their school carnival, Annie reluctantly goes along with the idea. Soon, however, she begins to get too involved in the role when the most popular kids at school begin to take notice of her special abilities with the cards and make demands on her time.<br />Annie begins to let it all get to her head, until things start to go wrong after her readings and she gets the blame. She begins to use the cards in ways they were not intended with disastrous results. Suddenly popularity isn't so much fun anymore. Does Annie abandon her talent for Tarot, or will she come to terms with how to use her gifts responsibly? With a little help from the triple Goddess of the witches, the Moon-Goddess Hecate, anything is possible.<br />Bird is consistently creating interesting stories. This one I liked better than the last because it didn't rely on any heavy plot devices (no murdered/kidnapped girls, etc.). <br />There were some very imaginative segments, such as the girls Tarot exercise in the woods with the elders from the Crones' Circle bookstore. It was the Fool's journey through the Tarot. Everyone went into the woods at dusk with flashlights, followed different paths and encountered different Tarot card characters along the way. But Annie's encounter turns into a true metaphysical adventure.<br />Readers of previous books in the series won't be disappointed. If you're just getting started, you won't be lost starting with Book 4 as all the books seem to stand up well on their own. Ifyou are looking for fiction on the subjects of magic, witchcraft, and Wicca with a realistic touch, this series is for you.	2001-09-09
US	51395322	R2B9FDK9OKQMLS	0064472930	297548332	Second Sight (Circle of Three #3)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Can Cooper &quot;reveal that which has been hidden&quot; ?	Cooper is turning many corners in her life. She is turning sixteen, having nightmares, learning what it means to be a part of a religion outside of the mainstream, and that with great power comes great responsibility.<br />In Second Sight, book three in the Circle of Three Series, author Isobel Bird cleverly blends the facts of how the Wiccan religion is practiced today, with enough fantasy to keep readers spellbound.  It's a simple whodunnit with a magical twist.<br />Cooper can't seem to get a handle on her latest Wiccan lesson on scrying. But at the same time, she is having nightmares connected to the disappearance of a teenage girl. The visions begin to surface even while she is awake. With the help of her circle friends and her Wiccan elders at the Crones' Circle bookstore, can Cooper develop the strength and self confidence necessary to control these visions?  Cooper finds that magical development doesn't come easy and sometimes with a high price attached.<br />Bird is providing a narrow, but accurate window into how the Craft is practiced today. These books give one of the most nonsensationalized representations of Wicca I've seen yet. Bird also accurately portrays many of the difficulties teens face when they wish to explore Wicca.<br />If you haven't read books one and two in this series, don't worry, this story stands alone on it's own and you will not feel too lost.  But if you find the subject of Witchcraft and Wicca fascinating, you will want to read the other books in this series as well.	2001-09-03
US	51395322	R2GEA6NJCKJQ2A	0764154028	269561230	Tarot Spellcaster: Over 40 Spells to Enhance Your Life With the Power of Tarot Magic (Quarto Book)	Books	4	21	24	N	Y	Enhance your life with a little Tarot magick	Most people are familiar with Tarot as a system of divination. But the potent imagery of Tarot cards can also be a powerful meditative tool and an aid in enhancing magick spells.<br />Donaldson, who's previous works include the Dragon Tarot and the Lord of the Rings Tarot provides 40 simple spells that seem designed to be performed by all levels of magickal practitioners. But, the more magickal knowledge you have, the better. Those with more background in how to work magick will be able to enhance these simple workings with a few ideas of their own.<br />The book is beautifully illustrated and includes pictures of the altar layouts for each of the individual spells. There is a brief history of the tarot at the beginning of the book along with a brief introduction into the practice and ethics of magic and spellcasting. Donaldson also provides readers a handy spellfinder guide to help you find the most appropriate spells in the book for your specific need.<br />One thing I was a bit unsure about -- Donaldson recommends consecrating your cards with lavendar oil (do at your own risk...I'd just run them through the smoke of some lavendar incense).  <br />There is a spell for each of the 22 Major Arcana cards. Each of these spells are carefully constructed to utilize the energy behind the individual card's symbology. These spells are largely based on meditative work. For example, the spell for the Devil card has the participant meditating on the two warring factions inside of them...the negative and the positive elements within, and visualize the two merging together into a unified, balanced whole. <br />The 19 other spells in the book use combinations of Tarot cards from both the major and minor arcana. These spells are for specific purposes such as a spell for friendship, one for self-protection, and one for uncovering secrets. Supplies needed, spell overview, the magical intent of the working, and how to information is provided for each. <br />There are some very clever touches in this book, though I wish there was a bit more elaboration (the vast majority of the spells are only one side of a page long). But Donaldson provides tarot magickal enthusiasts with more ways in which to utilize the power of the Tarot. <br />Not since the book, Tarot Spells by Janine Renee, has there been any other book solely devoted to Tarot spellworking. This book is a wonderful resource for magickal practitioners of all levels.	2001-09-03
US	51395322	R3EJROMEP79C3Q	0060197277	453743124	Chi Fitness: A Workout For Body, Mind, and Spirit	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Simple &amp; effective fitness for body, mind &amp; spirit	C'mon everyone...let's get meta*physical*! This is not some abstract metaphysical mumbo-jumbo. This book offers a straightforward approach to fitness with workouts designed for the body, mind and spirit. Most fitness books focus on the physical body, emphasizing eating right and exercise to reduce weight, tone, body build, etc. Chi fitness authors, Benton and Denbaum shows readers how to use their Chi (life force energy) to maintain a healthy body and mind by combining exercise with meditation.<br />The authors provide meditations and exercises, to help clear energy blocks that may restrict us. They help us examine how we give away our energy through anger, stress, personal problems and conflicts. They also give readers a Chakra workout, providing detailed information about the chakras (energy centers in the body), and specific exercises to balance individual chakras that are out of balance. The movement exercises are mostly simple, yet effective. There are a few that the flexibly challenged will find difficult to master (I know I can't bend down holding my ankles with my head nearly touching the floor). But there are only a few so challenging. Illustrations and exercise instructions are thorough and very easy to follow. The authors seamlessly blend meditation and/or visualization with movement creating workouts that practitioners will find themselves fully engaged in. I recommend this for anyone who wants more than just the usual body-based workout, anyone who wants something more interesting than just your average repetitive routine, and for those that want to do more than just burn calories. This will stimulate you body, mind and soul.	2001-08-26
US	51395322	R1CHPJAP717PDW	0738700932	165683034	The Craft Companion: A Witch's Journal	Books	5	51	51	N	N	Record your spiritual progress in this magickal journal	It can be a workbook to chart your progress through author Dorothy Morrison's terrific Wiccan primer, &quot;The Craft&quot;. Or, it can be your personal magickal journal or shadowbook...whatever you decide. But it is so much more thanks to Morrison sharing some 111 (yes, I counted them) simple spell or magickal ideas. <br />Dorothy Morrison is a High Priestess in the eclectic Georgian Tradition. She has written other wonderful books such as, &quot;Everyday Magic&quot; (a favorite of mine), &quot;In Praise of the Crone&quot;, &quot;Yule: a Celebration of Light and Warmth&quot;, and a deeply symbolic, yet lighthearted Tarot deck, the &quot;Whimsical Tarot&quot;.<br />Every other page in this book contains a simple spell or magickal idea that can stand alone, or, be used as part of a more elaborate working. The other pages are blank to record your progress through the text, &quot;The Craft&quot;, or to record your own notes on a particular magickal working in the journal, or to just use as you see fit. <br />The author provides practitioners with a broad compilation that includes chants, prayers, charms, blessings, recipes and all types of positive magickal workings for a variety of magickal intentions. Morrison's rhythmic, affirmative chants are definite magick boosters. Her rhymes are not stressed-out, they flow, allowing you to focus your energy on your intent.<br />There's a brief introduction that includes suggestions on how to use the journal, one short glossary of Gods and Goddesses invoked in the workings, and an alphabetically-arranged content listing of the spells provided in the journal.<br />If you are new to the Craft, then be sensible and please buy the text, &quot;The Craft&quot;, and read it first *before* using this book. It puts everything in its proper context and perspective. But, whether old or new to the Craft, you will enjoy using this journal. It makes a great gift idea for family, covenmates or friends.	2001-06-27
US	51395322	R1TK4EPJ0VZEB	0738700436	504933945	Tarot for the Healing Heart: Using Inner Wisdom to Heal Body and Mind	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Tarot &amp; healing -- a winning combination!	Tarot...it's not just for divination anymore. Now, Christine Jette, author, healer, RN, and professional Tarot consultant, combines her knowledge of healing with her insights into the Tarot to provide a powerful healing resource for tarot practitioners of all levels. If you loved Jette's previous book: Tarot Shadow Work, where she explores using the Tarot to illuminate the shadow sides of human nature, you will find this an extremely useful companion. <br />If you are new to Tarot, I'd recommend exploring some basic books regarding the use, meanings and symbolism of the cards alongside, or even better, *before* using this text.<br />Tarot for the Healing Heart is full of insights into the nature of health, disease and healing, how the healing process needs to be addressed on all levels -- body, mind and spirit, and how the Tarot can operate as an ally towards self-discovery and self-recovery.<br />Well-laid out, with contents pages separately listing Tarot activities and Tarot spreads for ease of access, readers will find this a fluid read from cover to cover. You will want to read it in sequence, at least up to Chapter eight, which gets into the individual card interpretations. <br />Chapter two deals with setting up an atmosphere to encourage healing including, affirming intent, creating sacred space, meditation, keeping a journal and doing dream work. Chapter three covers illness, providing an overview, Tarot layouts and other tools to assist in understanding personal patterns of disease.<br />Chapter four takes seekers into the heart of disease with methods to help examine the choices being made and how they affect the disease or healing process. Chapter five explores healing as a lifestyle. Chapter six guides seekers toward activities that support the healing process and chapter seven closes with some practical advise on healing yourself before you attempt to help heal someone else.<br />In her previous work, Jette utilizes only the Major Arcana for exploring the shadow side of human nature. Here, she uses all 78 Tarot cards. Cards are interpreted as neither inheritantly good or bad, but with a range of life experiences that can provide opportunities for seekers to learn, grow and heal. The four categories of interpretation for each card are life lessons (energy imbalances/disease), life wisdom (balanced energy/healing), actions that support the healing process, and contacting your inner wisdom (questions to further stimulate insights). Court cards can be used in some cases, to identify the type of healing practitioner an individual should seek out for help or counsel. In all cases, Jette provides a concise, in-depth analysis of each card's healing/dis-ease properties.<br />Chapter exercises include focused Tarot layouts, such as the Picturing the Pain Spread, which helps you examine a symptom, disease, or condition. The Good Grief spread helps explore the physical symptoms and messages gained, while enduring the process of grief and loss. The Whatever Goes Around, Comes Around Spread is an intricately designed spread, appearing like a cross when laid out, but consisting of two circles when read. The inner circle discusses what you have to release, let go of in order to heal, while the outer circle reveals what gifts you will gain when you release what is necessary on the physical, emotional, psychological and spiritual levels.<br />The meditations on individual cards, or, selected groups of cards, such as the Aces of the Minor Arcana (Meditation for the Inner Healing Journey), are equally well-constructed and insightful. Other positive healing activities are also included. This is another exciting addition to the serious Tarot practitioner's bookshelves. It is an essential reference for anyone interested in using Tarot for health and healing.	2001-06-03
US	51395322	RKC8LZ6HNAQME	1567182739	527203097	Book of Hours: Prayers to the Goddess	Books	5	53	55	N	N	Beautiful, well-crafted prayers for Goddess Worshippers	Breathe. Breathe. Wingspans reaching into eternity. The everlasting filling my lungs until all I can do is breathe. Goddess is within and without, Now Goddess is within and without-- me. (From the introductory chapter of the Book of Hours)<br />Though somewhat small in scope (you just want more once you start reading this collection), this 118-page hardcover book is absolutely wonderful. Many people would like to bring themselves closer to the Goddess, but don't know how, or lack the words to express themselves confidently. Many would like to just thank the Lady for the light of day, the depth of night, the turning of the wheel, honor the cycles of their lives, or pray for an intercession. <br />Author Galen Gillotte, a solitary 20-year practitioner of Wicca, does a beautiful job of evoking the magic and mystery the Goddess, giving both the novice and experienced alike, a collection of prayers to use on a daily, moon cycle, or seasonal basis. She also includes prayers for those seeking divine interventions, or just to celebrate special occasions or life transitions.<br />This book is far deeper than the Wiccan Prayer Book. Gillotte exhibits a truly devout spirit and seems to capture the spirit of the Goddess and the moment well through her simple, yet profound, use of poetry and metaphor. In the introductory chapter, Gillotte adequately describes the four types of prayer she emphasizes in the book, prayers of expectation, prayers of thanksgiving, prayers of celebration and prayers of contemplation. She speaks on setting up sacred space for praying, thoughts concerning praying alone or in larger groups, and how the book should best be used. At the back is some nice background information regarding the Goddesses used in her invocations.<br />The book has a morning, evening, and night prayer for every day of the week, for the wheel of the year, and for the full and new moon. For each, there is a small introductory prayer and a closing. For the morning and evening prayers there is also a very brief meditation, and affirmation. The night prayer has a meditation and dream images in place of the affirmation.<br />The final section is comprised of brief prayers for special occasions, such as the birth of a child, for a handfasting, before meal prayers, etc. There are also prayers to release anger, to bring love into your life, for self-blessing, healing, to help one find their life path, and for coping with loss or grief.<br />My only complaint is that I want more from this author who seems to capture the spirit of Goddess worship so well. The only complaint I have is about layout. I wish the morning, evening and night prayers for each day of the week could have been lumped together under the day of the week rather than subdivided in chapters by morning, evening and night prayers...it just makes a little more sense keeping it all together by day of the week. The seasonal and moon prayers are done the opposite way, which I believe works far better.<br />I highly recommend this for those Pagans, Wiccans and Goddess worshippers who recognize the positive benefits praying can bring to their daily lives and who want to deepen their relationship with divinity. Here are a few other related books prayerful Pagans might be interested in: *Earth Prayers*, *Life Prayers*.  *Celtic Devotional*, *Her Words*. <br />I would like to thank Llwellyn Worldwide for publishing a wonderful resource for the growing Goddess-centered communities and encourage them to seek out more such material.	2001-05-13
US	51395322	R3NXBD64AAGQ3C	0684864053	653538028	Romancing The Tarot: How To Use Tarot To Find True Love Spice Up Your Sex Life Or Let Go Of A Bad R	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Tarot users will fall in love with this fabulous resource!	You could call a &quot;psychic friend&quot; and spend big bucks. Or you could buy this little guide and learn to use the Tarot yourself to shed a little light on your love life. Phyllis Vega, co-author of the wonderful Tarot spread resource, &quot;Power Tarot...&quot;, has put together a terrific Tarot book specifically related to romance and affairs of the heart.<br />The 40 original Tarot spreads vary in complexity (from 3 to 12-card spreads). They cover a wide range of questions relating to romance and partnerships, such as, whether or not your new relationship is love, where your relationship is headed, choosing between two loves, how to let go and move on, career conflicts between couples, will your kids or pets get along, an anniversary relationship overview, and whether or not your significant other is cheating on you.  By using/studying the spreads, readers may be inspired to create some of their own for issues Vega may have missed...though it's hard to think of any.<br />Vega also provides very detailed card descriptions. There's a general interpretation for each card and key phrases are also provided to help remember card meanings. Seven other categories of romance-related interpretations are provided for each card; expectation, emotional potential, sexual potential, material potential, spiritual potential, challenges and outcome. Though Vega doesn't have reversed meanings for the cards, she discusses how to read the cards reversed, if desired. Though not specifically recommended by Vega, I think her &quot;challenges&quot; category of interpretation could be read for reversed cards quite effectively.<br />She also provides a brief section on Tarot background and basics and four sample readings at the back of the book. This book is a fun and highly informative work. All levels of users will fall in love with this accurate, in-depth guide to using the Tarot for questions of the heart.	2001-01-08
US	51395322	R1KLCU0WCMZL3I	0749919620	411721142	A Complete Guide to Magic and Ritual: How to Use Natural Energies to Heal Your Life	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Rekindling a childlike sense of wonder thru magic &amp; ritual	Do you find yourself still wishing upon a star...looking for pictures in the clouds...or, carrying lucky charms?  This book is for those who wish to rekindle the sense of wonder and awe we experienced as children at the natural forces that surround us. Cassandra Eason shows us how to use these natural energies to heal and bring about positive change in our lives.<br />Eason, author of fine resources such as, Candle Power and Complete Guide to the Tarot, has produced another great work. In the creative spirit of people like Scott Cunningham, Gerina Dunwich and other similar authors, Eason writes in an imaginative, folksy style on ways in which to use nature, natural elements, and seasonal cycles in order to live in peace, harmony and bring about constructive change.<br />The book provides folk wisdom through numerous correspondence tables (on herbs, color magic, magical timing, etc), folk customs and lore, many inspired ritual/spell ideas and invocations, and seasonal rites/celebrations. There are elemental workings, not only with earth, air, fire, and water themselves, but with weather and natural phenomenon like clouds, rainy days, rainbows, eclipses, winds from each of the four directions, and salt (earth) etc. Eason also has a section on modern magic, ways to bring magic back into the urban lifestyles of today.<br />There are spells for luck, money, health, love, business, and defensive magic (which basically involves either self-protection, or sending negativity back to its source). There's a chapter on encountering magical beings and one on creating a magical home and garden.<br />At the outset, she has a section on essential rituals -- dealing with obtaining, and consecrating tools, setting up an altar, creating circles, raising power -- most of the basics of magical work is covered here.<br />This book will appeal to the beginner, not just for the volume of information provided, but for the way in which Eason makes you take a fresh look at the beauty and aweof the natural world and natural energies that surround us. Advanced practitioners will find some excellent rituals to add to their collection. This book is an invitation to improve yourself by bringing a little magic back into your everyday life.	2001-01-08
US	51395322	RAW8Z16HBOU2T	1891661086	55223962	Nancy Shavick's Tarot Universe	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Everything, except a Tarot deck, included in this reference!	There really isn't very much to dislike about this tarot resource. Author Nancy Shavick has thought of just about everything to make this a useful tool for both beginning and more advanced Tarot practitioners.<br />She spends a little time on the history and background of the cards. Shavick then spends a little more time on the steps to take to do a Tarot reading, including a unique way to establish a subject-combination for the reading. Then there is a wonderful selection of tarot spreads, some of the more common and some obscure. I especially liked the Lifetimes Spread, dealing with past, present and future/eternal life themes.<br />Shavick then provides an opinionated, yet well thought-out chapter, on techniques for tarot readers, including such things as: preparing for a reading, hazards of speculating, how often to read the cards, event timing, and why it's hard to read your own cards, etc. I say opinionated because there are various schools of thought on such issues, so take them in, but be aware that there are other ways of looking at such matters.<br />She also provides sample readings, excellent appendixes on tarot card combinations, cards with similar meanings, and how to interpret tarot cards in particular positions of the Grand Cross Spread.<br />But the meat of the book is on card interpretations, and she has provided a wealth of information for each card; a general interpretation, romance, work/business, and spiritual growth categories of interpretation.<br />There are a few shortcomings. I do not like the fact that she apparently does not think that cards should be read reversed. Also, I wish she had some additional important categories for interpretations, such as home or family, and health. Another problem for me surfaces in the romance interpretations. Shavick displays an obvious heterosexual approach which I believe is quite limiting and she seems to be only speaking to women in this section, as if a man would never be asking romance questions.<br/>But shortcomings aside, this is a very informative reference, providing a lot of quality information, from someone who obviously knows the Tarot well. It is a fine, complete resource, but perhaps, not the only one you will want in your Tarot library.	2001-01-07
US	51395322	R15V4KU9LWO9SU	1567189709	272456387	Llewellyn's Witches' Calendar 2001	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A visual treat &amp; informative tool for the modern Witch!	Llewellyn's Witches Calendar has become one of those routine calendar purchases in this household. Every month has a beautiful, season-themed graphic, and informative pieces by mostly Llewellyn authors that provide Pagan folklore, background information, recipes, how-to information, or ideas for seasonal rites or celebrations. <br />The days of the month contain astrological, color and moon phase information. There are important dates listed, such as traditional holidays, Sabbats, and important Pagan/Wiccan historical dates. <br />It would have been nice if other celebratory dates were included, such as God/Goddess feast days, and world festival celebrations. I also miss the little 5 or 6 line chants/poems they had in the previous year's calendar.<br />After December's page, there are a number of fine articles, such as, Gerina Dunwich (Sibyl Leek biography), Mary K. Simms (Planetary Hours for Witches; Sabbats), and Ann Moura (Casting the Dark Power Circle).<br />All in all, this calendar is a smart choice for those who make the Craft a part of their everyday lives.	2000-12-31
US	51395322	R1YDIGQRDC4IBS	1567185525	366041403	Silver's Spells for Love (Silver's Spells Series)	Books	4	20	25	N	N	All you need is love &amp; a little magick to help you get some!	Here's another creative, thematic collection of eclectic spells by author Silver Ravenwolf. This collection focuses on matters concerning the heart. Spells, of course, revolve mainly around sex, romance, marriage, babies, etc. But Ravenwolf also includes spells for the other loves in our lives; friendships, pet companionships, love of self (self-esteem), attracting the job you love, and a spell to send loving thoughts to a loved one who has passed on.<br />She also includes spells to mend broken relationships/friendships, end arguments, soothe road rage, heal after a divorce, or break the effects of love spells or enchantments. She includes a nice spin on the process of drawing down the Moon/Sun -- a preparatory working appropriately titled -- &quot;Drawing down Love&quot;. <br />The spells are diverse. There are charms to be made, dreams to undertake, oils or potions to create, baths to refresh in, divinations to do, incantations to speak, songs to sing, empowering chants, candles to charge, and much more. She invokes a variety of deities (Yemaya, Aphrodite, Bast), works with animal/plant energies, and throws in some famous personalities as well (Shakespeare, Lord Byron).<br />It might have been nice if Ravenwolf provided more workings concerning the darker side of relationships -- how to get out of emotional clinches, protection from stalkers, how to break an abusive cycle, end co-dependencies, etc. But, overall, a lot of ground is covered.<br />This book should be taken for what it is...a book of spells, not a magickal primer. It is best suited for those already familiar with the ethics, and the art, of spellcasting. Though there is background material provided on how to work magick, and nice ideas on how to create and bless a love altar or shrine, novices should seek out something more basic on the art of spellcasting rather than just play around with the information provided in this book.<br />Like her other small pocket guides (&quot;Silver's spells for protection&quot;, and Silver's spells for prosperity&quot;), you may not find every idea useful. But there's enough here to make it a worthwhile purchase for magickal practitioners. This is an imaginative, thoughtful treasury of magickal workings devoted entirely to the affairs of the heart.	2000-12-30
US	51395322	R3KPD6JBHE480P	1891661116	524397279	Caf Nation: Coffee Folklore, Magick, and Divination	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Wake up and smell the coffee...in a new, enchanting way!	Some people are dog lovers, some are cat lovers...some like tea, while others can't be without their coffee. Finally, for those of us who love to wake up to the aroma of a pot of coffee brewing, comes a book that explores the magical properties of this delightful drink. Author Posey explores the magical ways people can enhance their enjoyment of their daily dose of caffeine.<br />She explores methods, such as reading coffee grounds in the bottom of the cup, coffee bean divination (similar to I-Ching), divining by examining the coffee bubbles -- or by scrying the swirls of cream in your cup of steaming brew, and she provides a unique system of divination, the Cafe Nation system, which invokes the symbolism of the pentagram. This system can be used with casting the coffee beans, or with wooden coffee stirring wands, which are then inscribed with the names of the many worldwide varieties of coffee. Interpretations for this system of divination are provided.<br />Aside from the divinatory aspects, Posey explores the use of coffee in magick, providing creative ways in which to incorporate coffee into spells, rituals and seasonal observances. She even has a little magickal working, designed to help keep a caffeine addict's addiction in check, including a rather &quot;in your face&quot; affirmation. She also gives readers ample background information on coffee history, legends and lore.<br />This is a fun, informative little book for the mystic or spiritually inclined who also happens to be a coffee lover. It also is a great, unique, inexpensive gift idea.	2000-12-16
US	51395322	R2ZMAVL2F2LRRK	0806521376	664877017	Advanced Wicca: Exploring Deeper Levels of Spiritual Skills and Masterful Magick	Books	5	76	79	N	N	Leads readers beyond Wicca 101, deeper towards self-mastery.	There are just so many &quot;right&quot; ways you can learn to cast a circle, invoke the elements, quarters and deities, create a proper altar/sacred space, etc. And the correspondence tables...do you have enough of them already??? This book is what many on the Wiccan path have been pleading for...a book that goes beyond the basic teachings of the Wiccan way.<br />Finally Pat Telesco moves the practicing Wiccan further down the path towards self-enlightenment. This is not a simple spell or recipe book. It's a resource on how to live a magickal life, to live, breathe, and sleep magick. <br />Telesco defines what it means to be an adept in the Wiccan community. She covers such things as trancework, group dreamworking, creating amulets, talismans, mazes and labyrinths, working with elementals, and group pathworking. She also provides a number of spells, meditations, visualizations and other exercises or activities. Her community ritual, which involves putting together the pieces of a puzzle, has wonderful depth and meaning. <br />She discusses the role for the Wiccan in the Wiccan community, and the greater community at large, whether it be as a teacher, counselor, healer, study group organizer, coven builder, or public spokesperson for the Craft. Telesco also offers wonderful guidelines for self-regulation and how to deal with difficult issues in the Craft such as the internal squabbling known as &quot;Witch wars&quot;.<br />Like so many of her other books (Spinning Spells and Weaving Wonders; Wicca 2000, etc.), this one is very well written and organized. It is a highly recommended addition to the experienced Wiccan's magickal library.	2000-12-06
US	51395322	RDAM8IFC7IWZK	0062516752	278076458	Dream Magic: Night Spells and Rituals for Love, Prosperity and Personal Power	Books	5	25	26	N	N	No ordinary dream book--it's filled with magic &amp; enchantment	From time to time, we have all wished that at least one of our dreams could come true. Dream Magic is for those wanting to go beyond the wishing stage. It is for those who believe they can make it happen. <br />This is an awesome collection of spells and rituals, meant to be performed around bedtime, in order to stimulate dreams that guide the dreamer on the path towards cherished goals or desires. The dreamer consciously attempts to steer dreams toward a goal or purpose, then takes the information gleaned in the night, and applies it towards acheiving a goal in their waking world.<br />Sirona Knight, co-author and creator of the imaginative Shapeshifter Tarot, has assembled over 100 rituals of varying difficulty, to assist readers in empowering their dreams. The chapters subdivide dream spells by subject: Love Dream Magic, Money &amp; Success Dream Magic, Self-Empowerment Dream Magic, and Health, Beauty and Wellness Dream Magic. <br />The Practical Dream Magic chapter covers some unique areas, such as a &quot;You've Got Mail-Cyber Ritual&quot; (designed to bring you great e-mail and less spam), a &quot;Pet Protection Moon Spell&quot;, several vacation dream spells, and one to help problem-solve through your dreams. The Divine Dreams chapter covers psychic/prophetic dreaming, dreaming your power animal, time travel and more.<br />Each individual working features a general description or purpose, magical/astrological timing for the exercise, a list of items needed, and tells how to perform the spell. They are creatively crafted, including many evocative invocations by Knight to set the mood right.<br />She provides appropriate background to the art of dream magic, explains how to create a dream altar, summon dream guardians, and describes the basic components needed to perform dream magic rites. She includes a list of helpful dream deities and a bibliography at the back of the book.<br />Although the book is very accessible to beginners in magic and spellwork, I suggest beginners get some general background first on magic and spellcrafting. This is an excellent resource for those daring to believe that they can make their dreams a reality.	2000-12-06
US	51395322	R1GW5I2S917VRU	1885203764	924742616	Tea Leaf Fortune Cards	Books	4	23	27	N	N	An imaginative divination tool with a user-friendly format	Have trouble finding images, or making sense out of the scattered tea leaves in your teacup? Here's a neat little tool, based on the concept of tea leaf reading. It provides the actual images, rather than have readers figure out for themselves what they're seeing in their teacup, and then try to figure out exactly what each image is supposed to mean to them. Tea leaf readings might be good for the psychic adept, but bad for novices, or occasional dabblers.<BR>I remember a time before I discovered Tarot, when I used dice, a regular deck of cards, or fortune board games to fortell possible future events (I still do). These cards bring back to me a certain nostalgia. Tarot can get very deep and esoteric in interpretation. These cards are more concerned with the everyday, mundane events and matters that make up most of our lives. This round deck of 200 cards consists of 182 symbol cards, 12 month cards (for a yearly spread), and 6 astral house cards (which focus on issues or areas of your life, such as wealth, love, career, etc.). The symbol cards are pleasantly illustrated by Shawna Alexander and diverse in symbology. There are objects such as an ax, candle, key and so on. There are body parts such as an ear, eye, hand, etc. There are people, young man, older man, fair woman, etc. There are landmasses (mountain, moon, sun), animals, plants, and events (like a handshake, sunrise, teardrops). Besides short, concise interpretations of the cards in the book, provided by author Hepburn, she also includes a brief, one-line description on the cards themselves. Hepburn is a life-long student/practitioner of tea leaf reading and other ancient systems and her knowledge is apparent in her thoughtful interpretations of the symbology, her attempts to cover so many of the circumstances we may encounter in life, and the clever construction of the readings she provides.<BR>There are six astral house cards for an astral house spread which allows readers to focus in on a single area oftheir lives (love, marriage, career, wealth, success and happiness). This spread is the one I have the most problems with. First, I wish other important areas were covered. What immediately comes to mind is an astral house for children, health, home, travel and dreams. Also, the layout is just a bit too vague for me. The first row of the reading related to events which could transpire in two days, weeks, months or years...the second row, three days, weeks, months, or years...and the third row, four days, weeks, months, or years from now. It may have been better to structure it more concisely. But I believe the creative reader will be able to modify this approach to better suit their needs.<BR>The yearly spread is truly wonderful...with four cards for every month card. The cards do not correspond to a given week in the month, but are taken in context together. The same holds true for the weekly spread...each card does not necessarily correspond to a given day in that week, but are interpreted together to reflect what the focus will be in the week ahead. But, clearly, one can take these cards and come up with any variety of ways in which to use them. I've been thinking about a seasonal approach...or, a card, or 3 cards a day. The only other problem I have with the deck is that there are so many cards, making it difficult to shuffle, which is why I choose to use a spread them out on the table approach, rather than actual shuffling.<BR>There is one minor flaw with the deck, which I didn't grade them down for because I think it's self-explanatory. The butterfly card doesn't have an interpretation in the book...I double-checked this. But the card is pretty clear. Changes will be coming into the seeker's life and will be good or bad depending upon the cards that surround the butterfly.<BR>Novices and dabblers will love this deck, which speaks to them in the simple language of life's every day concerns, rather than spouting some esoteric mumbo-jumbo. Experienced readers will also thoroughly enjoy the divinatory potential these cards provide. I highly recommend the deck, and hope that perhaps the author will expand upon them further, if future editions are published.	2000-12-03
US	51395322	RCRTQXMSP5G2T	1567189741	441276169	Spell-a-day Calendar	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A magickal popourri for the modern spellcaster	A spell a day...what a nice concept, long overdue.  This is an affordable, small, desk/tabletop variety day-by-day calendar, with a hole in the back of it for hanging on a wall, if preferred. The spells come from a variety of sources, including the late Scott Cunningham, Gerina Dunwich, Silver Ravenwolf, Amber K, Yasmeen Galenorn, Dorothy Morrison and many more. The calendar is a rich, eclectic collection of workings.<br />Some entries are very simple, perhaps overly so, (like the AntiCold spell, which is basically a recipe for Chicken Soup!) but even the simple ones can provide the spark necessary to put a more complex ritual working together.<br />I especially like the fact that the spells seem appropriately timed both astrologically and by day of the week energies. There are even workings planned for celestial phenomenon like eclipses, as well as full and new moon magicks, a spell for the Chinese New Year and other special days, such as Rosh Hashanah, and the Sabbats.<br />If you are looking for a particular type of working, you can be easily guided by the fact that each day of the week will generally contain certain types of spells: Sundays - Health spells, Mondays - Hearth spells, Tuesdays - Protection spells, Wednesdays - Travel spells, Thursdays - Money spells, Fridays - Love spells, Saturdays - a more nebulous, Grab Bag of spells.<br />There are pages at the end of the calendar that include informational material such as a glossary of magickal terms, a guide to the iconic symbols used in the calendar, moon sign correspondences and author biographies.<br />One would hope, that anyone picking up this calendar, would already be familiar with magickal/spellcasting techniques and ethics, before undertaking any of the spells it provides. If not, then be sure to pick up at least one of the many good introductory books on Wicca, Witchcraft or spellcasting that are on the market today.<br />You may find that you won't want to throw the pages out when you have to change days on the calendar. Consider keeping them in a scrapbook...or your book of shadows for future reference. The calendar makes a great gift idea and is recommended for spellcasters with some grounding in the Craft. The calendar gets high marks for diversity of content, its organization and simplicity. I hope next year's version proves to be just as cleverly conceived.	2000-11-27
US	51395322	R1E6UZU22HI95V	1567189679	64414178	Llewellyn's 2001 Tarot Calendar	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An awesome annual treasure for Tarot enthusiasts	This wall calendar is not only a pictoral treasure, featuring a different card each month from Llewellyn-published Tarot decks, it also provides a wealth of Tarot information useful to anyone, from the beginner, to the advanced Tarot practitioner.<br />There is only a brief introduction to the Tarot in the beginning, so absolute novices, should certainly obtain one of the many fine, basic Tarot books available. Besides a beautiful Tarot card graphic, each month contains an article or Tarot exercise, a unique Tarot spread, Tarot tips, a card corresponding to the days of the year (as determined by a system explained by John Michael Greer at the back of the calendar), and important daily astrological correspondences. There are even some small Tarot graphics which serve as a background to break the monotony of the monthly calendar portion of the page.<br />After December's page, there are a number of articles written by authorities in the field such as, Rachel Pollack and Mary K. Greer, and a resource list. This is one of Llewellyn's better calendar ideas and is a great purchase for any level of Tarot user, particularly for the experienced, or more advanced Tarot enthusiast.	2000-11-27
US	51395322	R1MWCEGQC3FB5W	1567184081	534302411	Tarot Shadow Work: Using the Dark Symbols to Heal	Books	5	85	86	N	N	A unique way to recovery or self-assessment using the Tarot	I think I was expecting something else when I picked up this book. There are just so many ways of working with shadow energy. But I am not at all disappointed (even though my copy apparently had a few printing errors, fuzzy pages, etc.)  This book fills a little gap in my Tarot library.<br />Author Jette provides readers with a little-explored area of working with Tarot Cards. It involves using the Tarot to release yourself from the grips of your shadow, be it an addiction, bad habit, an illness, or unresolved feelings or conflicts. The first thing to mention is that Jette only utilizes the 22 Major Arcana cards, noting that they symbolize the spiritual journey, and shadow work itself is a spiritual endeavor.<br />Jette provides some primer information on the tarot -- background, Jung and the Tarot, the care and use of the cards and setting the proper tone and atmosphere (meditating, grounding, etc) for the readings.  She also spends plenty of space discussing the shadow and shadow work, including, for example, how to prepare for shadow work, building a shadow altar and forgiveness as part of the letting go process.<br />What is truly inspired are the readings you follow along, and do in sequence, as you make your way through the book. They all use a star-patterned spread design.  The &quot;Star of Discovery&quot; spread is about uncovering exactly what you need to know about your shadow. The &quot;Star of Recovery&quot; spread examines, in greater detail, one of the cards from the first reading that troubled the reader the most, in order to focus in on what may be in need of healing or coming to terms with.  The next spread, &quot;Star of Illumination&quot;, reveals the gifts of working with the shadow -- the positive energy you receive through self-acceptance and awareness. It again involves one of the cards from the first spread. The &quot;Star of Hope&quot;, the final spread, allows you to plan and visualize a possible future, one of hope.<br />There are even more exercises, affirmations, meditations, etc. provided for seekers, and an appendix of Major Arcana meanings -- the shadow meaning and the shadow gift interpretation of each card.<br />The author is an RN, health educator, and theraputic touch practitioner who has 25 years experience in working with and studying the Tarot.  This is a wonderful book for those seeking healing and recovery, or for anyone looking for methods of deeper self exploration.re exercises, affirmations, meditations, etc. provided for seekers, and an appendix of Major Arcana meanings -- the shadow meaning and the shadow gift interpretation of each card. <br />The author is an RN, health educator, and theraputic touch practitioner who has 25 years experience in working with and studying the Tarot.  This is a wonderful book for those seeking healing and recovery, or for anyone looking for methods of deeper self exploration.	2000-11-26
US	51395322	R1SFUGX7B5ZLCO	1564144119	635579663	Self-Helpless: The Greatest Self-Help Books You'll Never Read	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Humor IS the best medicine!	I laughed till I cried.  For those out there who think that self-help books can solve all your problems, this may not be for you. But those of us who think this whole self-help thing has gone too far, will be highly  amused by the authors' creative parody of the most popular books in this  area.<br />The authors create book blurbs around their made-up titles. The  text is evenly funny throughout.  Even if this was created one or two  nights in a bar over some drinks, it's a hysterical romp.<br />Some zany book  titles include: I'm OJ, Your OJ, Embraced by the Light FM, and a spoof on  all those helpful travel guides -- Let's Go Hell.<br />It makes for some great  bathroom reading, or might be perfect as a gag gift for friends who may be  hapless victims of this self-help syndrome.  My advice, quit reading books  about how sick you are and how you need to change, and start reading more  books such as this and develop a sense of humor.  Laughter IS the best  medicine.	2000-04-29
US	51395322	R3RCBKR6G400SF	0609804634	760878940	The Onion's Finest News Reporting, Volume 1 (Vol.1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Equal opportunity satire	My, my...perhaps I should have pursued my journalism career -- I would love to write for the Onion -- but only the Onion -- because their  sarcastic wit is just what the nation needs.  <br />This is a very satirical  look at news, newspapers, and publishers.  The stories cover with,  irreverent insensitivity, some subjects sure to anger some, while at the  same time, make others laugh until they cry.<br />The story about Mother  Teresa going to hell due to a &quot;clerical error&quot;, or the one where  Jon Benet Ramsey, tells people not to cry about her brutal death, because  she is happy with the angels now, are just a couple examples of what I am  talking about.<br />Just about no political/social group escapes the watchful  eye of the Onion. The homosexual humor is extremely outrageous.  I  especially enjoyed how they &quot;covered&quot; a story regarding a  homosexual man who saved a family from a fire.  Even though the story  should have been focusing on the brave rescue, the reporter kept mentioning  the man's homosexuality every chance he got, showing a bit extremely, how  news gets sensationalized.<br />If you loved Our Dumb Century as much as I did  and can handle some very extreme, and at times, sexually explicit humor and  can take a joke, you will love this latest compilation from the Onion. It  is highly hysterical reading.	2000-04-28
US	51395322	R2YYTAFHCQP4ZN	0806927798	209615427	The Illustrated Guide To Wicca	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Don't confuse flashy with shallow	Some of the flashy books coming out lately such as, The Complete Illustrated Guide to the Tarot, Complete Illustrated Guide to the Runes, and the Complete Illustrated Guide to Numerology, though overviews, these books do not skimp on the information they provide their readers.  <br />This  book is no exception.  The Illustrated Guide to Wicca contains both  practical and breathtaking graphics, and just about all the information you  need to understand Wicca, from the legends and lore, to all the basic  how-to information.<br />Everything is covered, beliefs, practices,  techniques, Wheel of the Year rituals, other ritual ideas including first,  second, and third degree initiations.<br />The authors reveal the diversity  among Wiccans by having each Wheel ritual in the book focus on a different  pantheon (Yule invokes the energies of Isis and Osiris; Beltane invokes  Thor and Sif, for examples).  They also include some nice pages devoted to  charges and invocations to other deities.  It's no great multicultural  assortment, but it provides just enough to stimulate the beginner's  interests.<br />The book is ideal for the curious, those at the introductory  level and young people. Those beyond being just curious should, of course,  supplement this with other books, such as the Spiral  Dance by Starhawk, or  Wicca for the Solitary Practitioner, by Scott Cunningham. <br />This book  might also be nice for more experienced practitioners to have around, if  they need a non-threatening source to answer questions about the craft to  those on the outside.  This is a nicely organized, carefully constructed,  beautifully illustrated resource.	2000-04-25
US	51395322	R8VR58LCEGTSH	1580910432	507358751	A Little Book of Candle Magic	Books	3	45	47	N	N	The lite FM of spell books!	This is the lite FM of spell books.  A bit heavy on setup, light on the actual workings and background information. A positive is that the spells are simple and straightforward, making this a nice purchase for a novice or  occasional dabbler. The spells might be useful to other more experienced  spell casters who may want to use these as a foundation, or a part, of more  elaborate rituals.<br />Around 40 pages of this 174 page book are  correspondence tables, information on herbs, incense, stones, colors, etc.  -- so be aware if you already have this material from other sources.   <br />The spells themselves often involve simple activities, such as carving  something into the candles, visualizations, or chanting.  The spell section  takes up the majority of the book and covers a wide range of topics. Some  of them are nicely constructed and there are a number of inspired  chants.<br />There is the issue of compelling magick. There are spells for  binding people, bringing pressure to bear on an enemy, etc. They are in the  minority, but they are included in this mostly positive collection.<br />The  last 27 pages are altar layout diagrams -- how to arrange your magickal  tools.  There were some very elaborate patterns, as well as simple layouts,  which depended on the working.  This was a nice touch and a good aid for  those unfamiliar with how to set up a magickal workspace.<br />All in all this  is a very simple book, designed primarily for beginners. Since it seems to  be constructed that way, it is a shame more magickal and ethical background  is not provided to put this into a proper educational framework. The  background, history and ethics could have been elaborated on in a bit more  detail, rather than providing such detailed correspondence tables, which  are available from any number of other sources. <br />If you are looking for  something a bit deeper, as far as working with candles goes, you might want  to try Cassandra Eason's Candle Power book.	2000-04-12
US	51395322	R3HCNQAN4D8YCV	1580910688	521755094	The Complete Guide to Tarot	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Much more than just another tarot interpretation book.	Accessible to beginners, while being expansive enough for intermediate to advanced practitioners, this Tarot guide is sure to please most everybody.  Cassandra Eason, a British writer of numerous books on tarot, magick and  other metaphysical subjects, such as &quot;Candle Power, Using Candlelight  for Ritual, Magic &amp; Self-Discovery&quot;, has covered a lot of ground  in this book.<br />She does this by giving a brief, concise, history of the  cards, spending a little time on practical care of the cards, invoking  protection when doing readings, choosing a card a day, keeping a Tarot  journal, and other basic procedures.  Eason then provides readers with  short, very descriptive interpretations of each card, with positive and  negative aspects given. <br />She cleverly subdivides the Major Arcana in  categories of twos, threes, and fours.  For example, The Fool, Magician,  and High Priestess are called, &quot;The cards of your inner powers&quot;,  and Judgement and the World are, &quot;The cards of new horizons&quot;.   Eason also deals with Court Card interpretations separately before the rest  of the Minor Arcana.  The Minor Arcana is presented numerically, not by  suit.  The twos, threes, fours, etc., are interpreted all together.<br />She  has a brief section of some standard spreads, containing at least one that  I was unfamiliar with (a pyramid spread). The second half of the book was  all about taking the Tarot further with some rather unique spreads,  including a one-time only reading, the Web of Norns spread, which  interrelates the past with the present and future. Eason also discusses in  this section Tarot and astrology, pathworking, crystals and the Tarot  (including how to put together your own Tarot crystal set), Tarot and  psychic development (including a nice past life working), Tarot and magick,  spellworking, and much more.<br />The book is thoughtful, informative and  nicely designed for ease of use.  Eason seems to have a thorough knowledgeof the subject and provides readers with some excellent ideas on how to  work further with the cards.  All levels of Tarot practitioners may want to  consider adding this book to their collection of resources.	2000-04-09
US	51395322	R28JXGZEIMF49B	1569246483	859202948	The Storyteller's Goddess: Tales of the Goddess and Her Wisdom from Around the World	Books	5	22	22	N	N	The Goddess comes alive in this wonderful collection	The many aspects and legends of the Goddess are beautifully, and imaginatively retold by Carolyn McVickar Edwards. She provides readers with 39 Goddess stories from 27 different cultures. She arranges these stories into seven categories, such as, All in All: Healing the split (the Goddess  as both light and dark -- which includes Goddesses such as, Pele,  Ereshkigal, and Hecate), or, Spirit Incarnate: Goddess as Earth and Body  (including Goddesses such as, Freya, Kuan Yin, and Sedna).  The author has  added six new stories in this second edition as well as reworked many of  her original ones.  Edwards took some of the stories straight from Merlin  Stone's book, Ancient Mirrors of Womanhood. Others, she puts a more modern  spin on. Some she created from bits and pieces of information, concepts and  images. The book is feminocentric, but not exclusionary towards men.  It's  lessons (such as religious tolerance, equality, ecology) are imparted in a  sensitive, not preachy manner.  The stories are beautiful to read both  aloud or quietly. Many, but not all, are appropriate to read to children.  All can be use in group discussions, or for ritual celebrations. If you are  involved in Goddess spirituality, are a storyteller seeking good material,  or are just interested in exploring Goddess lore, you'll find this book to  be pure enchantment.	2000-04-04
US	51395322	R2GCVCXVN7MOJF	006251377X	305479600	Life Prayers : From Around the World : 365 Prayers, Blessings, and Affirmations to Celebrate the Human Journey	Books	5	40	41	N	N	A multi-traditional treasury celebrating our life journey	Those who have bought the editor's first volume, Earth Prayers will not be disappointed with this second collection of inspirational poems, prayers, chants, blessings,  and invocations from around the world, from some of the  most visionary thinkers, both past and present.  This book has a truly  impressive range of material.  <br />This collection celebrates life and the  life cycle.  The selections are subdivided by categories:  affirmations/invocations to life in general, honoring a kinship with all  life, dark night of the soul, prayers for solidarity and justice,  womensprayers, birth, coming of age, courtship, marriage, healing,  mid-life, growing old, death, moments of grace and illumination, and  praises for the earth.   This is a great resource for those involved in  running ecumenical services of any sort, any group that uses affirmations  as part of it's groupwork, and for individuals who wish to make prayer a  part of their daily lives. If you see the sacred in all things and are  looking for something more than one religious traditions' teachings have to  offer, this multicultural prayerbook is for you.	1999-10-09
US	51395322	R27BI7F20I18E5	006066875X	137732614	Prayers for a Thousand Years	Books	5	33	34	N	N	This collection proves there is hope for the future!	People today are recognizing the need  and the benefits of incorporating more prayer and devotion into their everyday lives.  This book, along with the editor's previous works, Earth Prayers and Life Prayers provides people  with a multicultural array of poems, prayers, chants, blessings, and other  types of inspiration to further enrich your life.<br />This collection focuses  primarily on the coming millennium.  The editors actually sent out a call  to others to contribute their thoughts to this volume.  So, unlike previous  works, this collection is focused mainly on the words of people living  today, whereas the other volumes, contained wisdom from the past as well as  the present.<br />What makes this book even more precious, is that world  leaders such as Desmond TuTu and Vaclav Havel, stand here side by side with  other great thinkers, poets, religious leaders and visionaries.  But also  tapped, are relative unknowns, nuns, alternative communities, community  leaders, singers/songwriters, poets, teachers, etc. providing a huge  melting-pot of profound thoughts and wisdom.<br />These reflections are  subdivided in categories such as: hope for the future, opening hearts, this  moment in time, creating peaceful communities, one about children, the  earth, solidarity and justice, politics, economics and morality, parables  of our time, and we the people.<br />Instead of dwelling on decay and  apocalypse, why not see the hope the future has to offer an enlightened  civilization?  This book is a breath of fresh air amidst the glut of  negative material out there concerning the turn of the century.  To the  editors...thank you for providing us with continued inspirations.	1999-10-09
US	51395322	R1ASVNPJH7PDXN	1888767359	61372275	The Animal Wise Tarot	Books	4	42	44	N	N	An animal tarot, destined to be a hit with animal lovers.	Tarot is for the birds, you say?  Yes, and the bees and reptiles too!  This Tarot deck is totally devoted to the imagery and symbolism of animals.  Those who work with animal totem energies will really get into this deck,  not necessarily for the cards themselves, but for the way author Andrews  instinctively linked appropriate animals to what he believed to be their  corresponding Tarot energies. Andrews has worked extensively with animals  and claims to have a long history of working with the tarot.  This does  seem to be reflected here in this work. He chose a particular animal for a  particular card because he believed it most strongly reflected the meaning  of that particular card.  Some connections are very obvious, such as the  Snake for death.  To me, others seemed a bit more subtle, such as choosing  the bees (fertility / spiritual choice) to represent the lovers. Card suits  are -- four-leggeds:mammals (Pentacles), winged ones: birds (Swords),  shapeshifters: insects/arachnids (Cups), and the ancients: reptiles  (Wands). It is a worthy effort, Andrews has put a lot of heart and soul  into this work. He creates some wonderful connections between the animal  kingdom and tarot card symbology.  I would have liked it better if Andrews  had done a more artistic interpretation of the animals and their energies  on the cards, instead of what looks to be beautiful stock photo images of  them.  Also, I wish more had been done to address how to use the cards in  totem work.  It might also prove difficult for novices to learn with these  cards because there is no familiar Tarot imagery present.	1999-05-12
US	51395322	R17FB45CMKV30D	1862042128	910934216	The Complete Illustrated Guide to Tarot	Books	5	30	31	N	N	A visually appealing, well-written overview of the Tarot	This is a lovely book, one you'll want to leave out on display, or on a coffee table for guests to browse.  Written in the style of many books today -- sharp, eye-catching graphics, short summarized sections, it has  the added benefit of being put together by an authority in the field.    Pollack has written extensively on the subject, most notably, her  two-volume interpretation of the Haindl Tarot and her own deck, the Shining  Woman Tarot. Pollack begins by giving a brief, instructive overview of the  origins, legends and history of Tarot cards and its occult connections.   The structure and symbolism of the cards, the major arcana sequence, the  significance of court cards, paths on the tree of life, card numerology,  the suits and their correspondences, garden/botanical elements and animal  symbolism are all touched on, along with much more. Part three covers the  cards a bit more in-depth, including the metaphorical journey through the  major arcana.  Part four deals with reading the cards, including some  simple spreads. The last section suggests other uses or activities for the  Tarot, such as, using them for game playing, storytelling, or, how to go  about creating your own deck. This is a pretty sophisticated little  reference with wonderful illustrations including images from a variety of  Tarot decks, both old and new.  It would make a wonderful gift for novice  or advanced practitioner alike.   One might not consider this a  &quot;must&quot; have book, but it is a book you may &quot;want&quot; to  have in your collection, because of the book's visual appeal, and Pollack's  concise overview of the Tarot.	1999-05-12
