US	51395538	RLMANWIE27LM6	1556432992	353091643	1: The Ultimate Egoist: Volume I: The Complete Stories of Theodore Sturgeon	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The beginning of one of the truly great careers	One of the great tragedies of science fiction's success in taking over the world is that we've lost our sense of the history of the genre. After the explosion of popularity the genre saw in the late seventies, there has simply been way too much science fiction and fantasy for anyone to read all of it, much less read the best of the past. In other words, the time when every fan had read the essential works has passed; any sense of tradition and common ground has vanished into the mediocrities of Hollywood and the latest endless series of repetitious commercial formula. Which is precisely why this series of Theodore Sturgeon's complete stories, accompanied by the recent reprints of most of his novels, is so incredibly important. When one considers the fact that at the 2002 World Science Fiction Convention I met three fans who had never even heard of Sturgeon, much less read him, these reprints are highly essential. How anyone can call themselves a fan without reading Sturgeon (and Heinlein, and Asimov, and C.L. Moore, and Kuttner, and so many more) is beyond me. This first installment of the complete works of the greatest short story writer science fiction and fantasy ever produced may not be his best, but it is critical for any understanding of where science fiction began to attain the levels of greatness it has all too often forgotten. Among the best this volume has to offer includes the utterly chilling and absolutely unique \\"Bianca's Hands,\\" which will both revolt and delight you, and the charming \\"Ether Breather,\\" with its original aliens. As a writer myself, I enjoyed all the journeyman work, especially since I could see how the craft developed; as a science fiction critic and scholar, I also thoroughly enjoyed the biographical story notes at the end, which may be the closest we ever get to a biography. All in all, one of the great publishing events of the history of our chosen obsession.	2002-10-25
US	51395538	RH1P2Y8T95JYZ	1556432992	353091643	1: The Ultimate Egoist: Volume I: The Complete Stories of Theodore Sturgeon	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The beginning of one of the truly great careers	One of the great tragedies of science fiction's success in taking over the world is that we've lost our sense of the history of the genre.  After the explosion of popularity the genre saw in the late seventies, there has simply been way too much science fiction and fantasy for anyone to read all of it, much less read the best of the past.  In other words, the time when every fan had read the essential works has passed; in other words, any sense of tradition and common ground has vanished into the mediocrities of Hollywood and the latest endless series of repetitious commercial formula.  Which is precisely why this series of Theodore Sturgeon's complete stories, accompanied by the recent reprints of most of his novels, is so incredibly important.  When one considers the fact that at the 2002 World Science Fiction Convention I met three fans who had never even heard of Sturgeon, much less read him, these reprints are highly essential.  How anyone can call themselves a fan without reading Sturgeon (and Heinlein, and Asimov, and C.L. Moore, and Kuttner, and so many more) is beyond me.  This first installment of the complete works of the greatest short story writer science fiction and fantasy ever produce may not be his best, but it is critical for any understanding of where science fiction began to attain the levels of greatness it has all too often forgotten.  Among the best this volume has to offer includes the utterly chilling and absolutely unique &quot;Bianca's Hands,&quot; which will both revolt and delight you, and the charming &quot;Ether Breather,&quot; with its original aliens.  As a writer myself, I enjoyed all the journeyman work, especially since I could see how the craft developed; as a science fiction critic and scholar, I also thoroughly enjoyed the biographical story notes at the end, which may be the closest we ever get to a biography.  All in all, one of the great publishing events of the history of our chosen obsession.	2002-10-25
US	51395538	R3RUVVCHTZE9LD	044661081X	254460863	The Duke of Uranium (Jak Jinnaka)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	A solid attempt spoiled by the need to be a series	John Barnes is one of the finest science fiction writers of his generation; he mixes an exceptional sense of how societies work with a good grounding in hard science, and casts it all into a dramatic framework of interesting characters and tension-driven plotting. I've never read a book of his I didn't enjoy; indeed, I try and read everything he publishes. This book is a young adult novel, and a good one. John Barnes has clearly read the master of the science fiction young adult novel, Robert Heinlein; much of the social setting for this novel builds off of Heinlein's \\"Starship Troopers\\" in particular (the need to perform some service, military or otherwise, to become a full citizen). As a teacher who uses young adult novels throughout the year, I have to say that this novel presents two problems for the young reader: one, Barnes' invention of new words will confuse most young readers whose vocabularies may not be strong enough to recognize which words are real and which invented (there were moments I wasn't sure what his new words inferred, despite a doctorate in English and long decades spent reading science fiction); and two, the novel becomes less and less inventive as the pages turn: in his interests in establishing a series, many characters are introduced and conflicts left unresolved, and the main conflict that is wrapped up is done in a particularly formulaic way. I don't want to say more, because I don't want to give away any plot secrets (and the editorial review above gives a decent plot summary), but I found my own excitement growing less at the moment when it should have been accelerating. All in all, a solid effort, but one that forgets Heinlein's basic principle: all books need to be self-contained to be truly effective. Heinlein himself never violated that principle in his juveniles, and Barnes shouldn't either. The mania for series we find among adult readers has not inserted itself as the dominant trend in young adult readers (although there are series to be found, they are not the dominant form writers for this market mostly follow). That said, I would only recommend this book to a very bright young reader, with a solid vocabulary, who will be willing to put up with an ending that is far too open for its own good.	2002-10-24
US	51395538	R1RQOMNCL7W6JZ	0345424638	21658502	The Dark Heart of Time: A Tarzan Novel	Books	3	9	15	N	N	An interesting failure	Having grown up in the Tarzan revival of the late sixties and early seventies, I had read all of the novels as a boy.  Looking back now, I am still made uncomfortable by the level of racism in much of Burroughs' work (said statement may cause many to be angry with this review, but the evidence is overwhelming).  I also came to Philip Jose Farmer's pastiches of Tarzan as an adolescent, and fell in love with his Tarzan even more than the original (especially when he connected them with Doc Savage, another revival my preadolescent mind had devoured).  A few years ago, Farmer wrote a brand new &quot;Doc Savage&quot; novel, and it, like this new Tarzan novel, also fell curiously flat when compared to the originals.  In both cases, they started off with a bang, and I felt like I'd found my way back to those worlds.  But Farmer, I have to suspect, has grown too mature, and too sophisticated, to write what are essentially pulp novels meant for young boys.  He twists this Tarzan novel into a bad science fiction cliche, and it just doesn't work well.  While it is left open for a sequel, that opening only made the novel that less enjoyable.  What I really wanted to see is Farmer wrap up the war, and reunite Tarzan with Jane, and give us a proper end to the original series.  Unfortunately, whether due to the profit motive (which is possible, given the way Farmer milked the Riverworld books to death), or due to the desire to keep coming back to the well for personal reasons, we got a very truncated visit to the jungle.  In Farmer's defense, he very deftly avoids much of the racism of the original novels (though not so completely as the Disney movie, which solved the problem by leaving out Africans completely -- which may be even more racist when you think about it: a movie set in Africa populated entirely by apes and white people!), and for the first half of the book, he keeps the tension taut.  It just reads like he ran out of steam halfway through.  Having said that, I'm gladI read it, if only because it sent me back to the originals for another look.  And it is obvious that this master of speculative fiction is enjoying himself immensely -- and that alone is worth the price.  Just don't expect perfection, and you'll enjoy this novel.	2000-11-30
US	51395538	RAFO4S2FOVBU9	0380799685	927088823	David Brin's Out of Time: Yanked!	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Excellent writer, bad choices	As a teacher and writer of young adult novels, I have to say that I was very excited by the idea that one of the most brilliant authors of speculative fiction, Nancy Kress, was going to try her hand at a young adult novel.  Using David Brin's setup (and when will he get around to writing one, hmmm?), Kress unfortunately populates her story with overly simplistic characters, motivations, and plot events.  The novel reads as if she's slumming, and completely oblivious of the revolution in young adult fiction that has taken place in the last twenty years.  Anybody who has read Cynthia Voigt's &quot;The Runner&quot; or any of Chris Crutcher's books would know that you don't write down to kids -- you write up to them.  What makes it even worse is that within the origins of science fiction YA novels, Robert Heinlein set an example of complexity that makes them classic reads for young and old even today -- and, one suspects, for decades to come.  What makes all this still worse is that Nancy Kress is married to one of the masters of today's science-fiction YA form, Charles Sheffield, whose Jupiter novels are absolutely first-rate reading.  Having said all that, I do think there are some worthwhile moments in the novel: the rescue scene of the baby is done well, as is the overall tricking of the aliens.  The main female protagonist rings a little truer than the male protagonist, although both are thoroughly cliched.  The supporting cast is a bit less stereotyped, although not by much.  Essentially, I would guess Kress got the novel past an editor who had no clue what YA novels are like these days (which her complaint about the marketing would seem to support).  Hopefully, she will either give them up or bring her formidable talent into full play next time.	2000-11-30
US	51395538	R2GIJB26RY0WDE	0786882115	593306514	What Really Happens in School: A Guide to Your Child's Emotional, Social, and Intellectual Development, Grades K-5	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A good overview of elementary education today	As the father of a three-and-a-half year old daughter, I became curious about what awaited her in a little over a year to come.  Having been a child myself, don't you know, I thought it would all seem familiar, especially since I'd taught reading classes to elementary school kids for several years.  I have to admit I was more than a little surprised and shocked at the changes that have taken place since I was in elementary school in the late sixties and early seventies.  My overall impression is that teachers are pushing the kids way too far, and way too fast.  When I read that some fifth-grade teachers are actually requiring 5-12 page research papers, I knew something was wrong.  As a reading teacher, I was also dismayed at the intense push to begin reading in kindergarten, at a time when many children's brains are simply physically incapable of reading.  We need to go back to starting in first grade when almost all kids are mentally ready, and then just reinforce basic skills and the joy of reading with passionate intensity for the first three years.  However, none of that has to do with the quality of this book; indeed, Ann Laforge has simply alerted me to make my own preparations for how my daughter, and my unborn son, will deal with elementary school as it is being taught today.  I'm very glad I read this book, if only for the fact that it woke me up to how much parenting itself has changed since I was a kid: I still can't help but laugh whenever I hear the phrase &quot;play date&quot;; I realize that we often don't live in the old neighborhoods jammed full of kids, but when did it become necessary to schedule our kids' playtime, for pity's sake?  All this obsession with pushing and pushing our kids into regimented activities just scares the hell out of me.  On the other hand, parents who provide no guidance or structure at all scare me even more.  LaForge provides a guide to the middle ground of moderation, and I'm grateful.	2000-11-30
US	51395538	R3DNJ8Q1SAKNUP	0440208351	292798544	After the First Death	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A thriller in both subject and style	&quot;After the First Death&quot; is an outstanding, exciting read, driven by terrorism, violence, and bloodshed -- and, even more importantly, by Robert Cormier's tight, lyrical prose.  Few other young adult novels are written with this level of verbal ingenuity.  What impressed me most about the book's style is the mixture of narrators and narrative styles; Cormier shifts from first person to third person and back again, jumping back and forth in time as well.  Normally, such an experimental style would drive young readers bonkers, but Cormier makes it work beautifully.  This is a book that worked on all levels for me, both as a reader and a teacher, and it's been a very successful read with my freshmen.  &quot;The Chocolate War&quot; may be his most famous, but I think &quot;After the First Death&quot; is his best.	2000-10-30
US	51395538	R3ML3M1WDMHJSB	0931150167	304112443	John W. Campbell Letters	Books	4	12	13	N	N	An excellent collection of letters, but from wrong decades	John Campbell is without a doubt the most important science fiction editor  of the twentieth century.  Under his aegis, science fiction was completely  recast from space opera into serious philosophical and scientific  extrapolation; his stable of writers, led by Robert Heinlein and Isaac  Asimov, created the Golden Age of Science Fiction.  This collection of  letters shows the man at his most private, his most cantankerous, and his  most intellectually stimulating.  Anybody interested in science fiction  will enjoy these letters.  I have but two complaints.  One, the collection  would have been served even better had the letters TO Campbell been  included as well, since quite often he is responding to specific questions  and arguments.  That's a minor complaint, given that the length of the book  would have been exorbitant had they done so (although the editors seem to  have believed this would be just the first volume in a series, making  length less of an issue).  A larger complaint is the scarcity of letters in  the thirties and forties, when Campbell's influence was at its height.  By  the time the editors start putting in large collections of letters,  Campbell's influence was secondary at best, as most of his original stable  had moved on to novels and other editors, and his own interests expanded  into little short of crusades: dianetics, psionics, anti-gravity, to name a  few, as he began challenging the framework of accepted science and  philosophy.  Some of those interests remain fascinating, especially his  examination of how we think and feel, but others have been cast onto the  ashpile of ideas, such as the belief in psionics as the inevitable next  stage in human development.  With those two caveats in mind, these letters  need to be read, and the editors need to put together their long-promised  second volume, with a renewed emphasis on the thirties and forties.	2000-09-10
US	51395538	R2GBKW6EJVEHHI	0195042328	815631179	A Book of Love Poetry	Books	5	25	25	N	N	The best collection of love poetry currently in print	As a teacher, I loved this book.  It puts in one place most of the world's  greatest love poems, from the ancient Greeks and Romans up until the  present day.  There are substantial selections from Shakespeare,  Wordsworth, Donne, Marvell, and on and on.  It contains both extremes of  e.e. cummings' love poetry, from the raunchy &quot;may I feel said he&quot;  to the sublimely romantic &quot;somewhere i have never travelled.&quot;   For longtime collectors of anthologies, at one point in time this was the  Penguin Book of Love Poetry.  I've never particularly cared for  Stallworthy's organization, as he splits the poems up into emotional moods,  like &quot;Declarations&quot; and &quot;Celebrations,&quot; since my own  bent is to the chronological and cultural organizational methods, but they  may please people looking for a set of moods.  Unless situations have  changed since the year 2000, this is the only really good collection of  love poetry in print.  There are others, but none have the breadth and  depth of this one.  A must-have for lovers of poetry, for poets in love,  and for lovers looking for inspiration.	2000-09-10
US	51395538	R2FHOZEM2YA5FC	0517200589	947711235	Pulp Art: Original Cover Paintings for the Great American Pulp Magazines	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Art that goes pop!	Pulp fiction is an acquired taste these days; although I was born in the  sixties, long after the death of these magazines, the paperback boom in  science fiction and fantasy following the explosion of popularity due to  Tolkien and &quot;Star Wars&quot; put much of the classic pulp series in my  hands.  I still love the stuff, much in the same way that I enjoy sitting  down to a childhood meal of Captain Crunch or a chocolate Sundae.  This  book provides the graphic counterpart to the words I know so well, in  gorgeous reproduced color.  The pop culture of the thirties is to this day  some of the deepest and most endearing, from Fred and Ginger to the Marx  Brothers to the Wizard of Oz movie to hard-boiled detectives to golden age  science fiction to the westerns to...well, you probably get the point by  now.  This is an art that was never intended to do anything more than sell  a magazine, but it shows a vitality and craft sadly missing from the same  kind of art today.  Granted, some of it is misogynistic, sadistic, and  racist, but then almost everything in western society is, even to this day.   Taken with a little salt, the paintings reach out and bash you between the  eyes, daring you not to pick up the magazine they advertise.  The book  provides an introduction to the topic unmatched elsewhere, and makes  suggestions for follow-ups to the fan. The pictures alone are worth the  price: they range from N.C. Wyeth to J. Allen St. John to Margaret Brundage  to Rafael de Soto (whose use of light, darkness, and bright colors is  perhaps the most striking in the whole book, at least to my uneducated eye  -- regardless, his paintings in particular leap off the page).  All in all,  a most enjoyable volume.	2000-08-21
US	51395538	R2CX843INABB2	0440207681	199353487	Connections	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An excellent collection of short stories for young adults	I am so pleased to see this book back in print.  I first used this book in a summer school class for entering freshmen six years ago, and my students  loved it.  There are wonderful stories to be found here, from some of the  best writers of young adult fiction in the business.  Chris Crutcher's  &quot;A Brief Moment in the Life of Angus Bethune&quot; is probably the  best of the book (and far better than the movie &quot;Angus&quot;).  There  is also an absolutely first-rate rarity, the second-person point of view  story, in Gordon Korman's hilarious &quot;A Reasonable Sum.&quot;  If  you're a teacher looking for some contemporary short stories for teenagers,  or you just love to read well-written stories, then &quot;Connections&quot;  is a great find.	2000-08-19
US	51395538	R1FBFWDH92PSO2	0393000605	801506501	The Genius of George Washington (Third George Rogers Clark Lecture)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A brief look at Washington	This is not one of Edmund Morgan's more important books, but it is worth  looking at if you like Morgan's writings (as I do passionately), or if you  are a George Washington buff.  This is a very slim volume, consisting of  one very interesting lecture on Washington as a military and political  leader (arguing that Washington understood the nature of power better than  anybody else in his day in the colonies or the states), and a selection of  Washington's letters that provide corroboration for Morgan's arguments and  insight into the pertinent topics.  Where needed, Morgan provides a brief  introduction to each letter.  I enjoyed it, but it isn't going to make  anybody outside of the two groups I mentioned above very happy.	2000-08-19
US	51395538	R105PDOM3RHHRP	0859533069	393690812	Quick As a Cricket (Child's Play Library)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Another smash from the Woods	Don and Audrey Wood are quickly becoming my favorite creators of picture books for toddlers.  &quot;The Little Mouse, the Red Ripe Strawberry, and  the Big Hungry Bear&quot; has been a must-read since the day my 3-year old  daughter found it at the bookstore; when we went looking for more, we found  &quot;Quick as a Cricket.&quot;  My daughter made me read it to her six  times before she let me up from the bookstore bench to go buy it for her.   The intense likeability of the Little Mouse style has been taken up a notch  into a wide variety of animals, as the boy of the story changes and shifts  to match each new companion.  The words are simple, but rhythmic and  rhyming.  While it's not as funny as &quot;Little Mouse,&quot; the rapture  of reading it with my daughter has not faded.  &quot;Quick as a  Cricket&quot; is a definite classic, and one that will last the decades.	2000-08-19
US	51395538	R3EZ2H6TROILBE	0789401851	419840421	Science Fiction: The Illustrated Encyclopedia	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An excellent companion to the full encyclopedia	John Clute's &quot;Encyclopedia of Science Fiction&quot; is the master  reference to the field.  This illustrated volume is at best a companion,  and anyone needing the full answers should go to that encyclopedia.  That  said, I love this illustrated edition.  I have spent many hours poring over  the paintings, pictures, illustrations and timelines.  It is not an  exhaustive look, but rather a selection, but a selection done by someone  who knows the field as well as anyone does.  One of my particular favorites  in this book are the author photographs: not every author has a face as  famous as Asimov or Heinlein, and it was fun finally seeing what my  favorite authors looked like.  As a teacher of science fiction and fantasy,  I also appreciate its didactive qualities, since students are often lured  in by the reproductions of golden age covers that sparkle with life and  that inimitable sense of wonder so important to the field.  If you love  science fiction, you'll love this book.	2000-08-14
US	51395538	R36QP38TR9B0KV	0195040430	353465913	Early Jazz: Its Roots and Musical Development (The History of Jazz)	Books	5	37	37	N	N	The best musical examination of 20s jazz	Jazz criticism tends to run in two groups: one, the biographical/anecdotal  (often marvelous to read), and two, word pictures of how the music made the  writer feel (often awful to read).  Gunther Schuller's &quot;Early  Jazz&quot; does what any undergraduate musicology major would do: examine  the music note by note, and explain what's going on.  While this is not an  easy book to read for people like me who have no musical training (or  talent, for that matter), it is an absolutely essential book nonetheless.   Schuller goes through each major musician and movement of the twenties, and  shows exactly what is occurring.  What worked best for me was to have the  recording he was discussing playing while I read, so I could hear what he  was talking about.  Anybody in love with the early music of Armstrong or  Ellington needs to tackle this book sooner or later.	2000-08-14
US	51395538	R238E3UYON1LB3	1853263230	454537880	Dictionary of Medical Folklore (Wordsworth Reference)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fascinating, if a bit out of date	First published in 1979, Carol Ann Rinzler's &quot;Dictionary of Medical  Folklore&quot; provides a nearly complete collection of our medical myths,  beliefs, and delusions, from acne to zinc oxide.  Often, they are  fascinating.  For instance, most people have read a mystery in which a  corpse's nails keep growing after death; according to Rinzler, that's  absolutely false: the cuticles shrink, making the nails merely look longer.   I was also pleased to learn that chocolate does not cause acne, which  would have made my adolescence a little less argumentative.  There are a  few items that have become outdated as medical research rolls on, but on  the whole, this is a worthwhile book to have in your library, to help  answer trivia questions or do research for stories.	2000-08-14
US	51395538	R167URXUUNKGF	0688129218	513724697	Who Are They?	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A good book for infants	Babies generally like two kinds of books: ones with photos of other babies and animals, and ones with solid black on white illustrations.  I  experienced my own frustrations in trying to get my infant daughter  interested in books with bright colorful illustrations, and she just didn't  perceive them as something worth looking at.  But then I remembered what I  had been told years before in a children's bookstore, and when I switched  to the two categories above, she got very excited.  This is a sweet little  collection of black animal shapes on white backgrounds, with no text at  all.  It's a good book for a few months, but as soon as your child gets  past this stage, it quickly will get put in storage (until the next one  comes along, or for the next baby shower gift).	2000-08-14
US	51395538	R1TSX4WY66N0XO	0859539652	127604910	Great Pal Kitten (Giant Pals)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A good book for toddlers	My daughter has enjoyed this book since she was about a year old.  We have two cats, but neither one of them wanted to have anything to do with my  daughter, and she was very frustrated that she couldn't hold them.  This  book solved the problem.  It's very large, and the pictures are very  expressive of typical kitten behavior.  My daughter expecially loved the  page where the cat asks to be tickled -- it didn't take her long to figure  out how to do that!  Now that she's three, and old enough to be able to  approach the cats right, she can hold them and pet them.  But every so  often she pulls this book off of the shelf and asks to read it.  It's not  the kind of book that's going to be beloved by children for generations,  but it's worth having if you have a toddler who likes animals.	2000-08-14
US	51395538	R1YSLMN8GUXH9V	1573921750	23666559	Wieland, or the Transformation (Literary Classics)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The first solid American novel	Charles Brockden Brown has been almost completely forgotten today.  Unlike  the more famous James Fenimore Cooper, who is often accorded the title of  the first American novelist that Brown should bear, Brown's reputation is  largely borne up by those few literary critics who love the earliest roots  of American fiction.  &quot;Wieland&quot; is Brown's best novel, and still  quite readable today as a Gothic novel (although the secret of the villain  seems rather mundane today, as the 'power' he exhibits has been played  largely for laughs since the days of vaudeville and radio).  Brown was born  in Philadelphia in 1771, trained in the law, was one of the first to try  and make a living as a writer in the early years of the American republic,  and died young in 1810.  If you like Gothic novels, or you have a passion  for early American literature, you will enjoy &quot;Wieland.&quot;  Myself,  I prefer him to Cooper, who has been forever rendered laughable in my mind  by Mark Twain's hilarious essays on Cooper's literary sins.	2000-08-14
US	51395538	RP84KWLS0WRAT	0345362462	105312528	Grumbles From The Grave	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A choppy but important collection of letters	Robert Heinlein remains the twentieth century's most important science  fiction writer, and the one most capable of provoking arguments.  This  collection of letters, edited by Virginia Heinlein from the surviving  correspondence of over 100,000 letters now locked away in the archives in  UC Santa Cruz until fifty years after her death, is the closest we're going  to see in this lifetime to Heinlein's private opinions on a variety of  subjects.  Publisher Lester Del Rey insisted on the letters being cut up  into various topics, rather than the more standard chronological  presentation; many of these letters contain the backgrounds to a number of  Heinlein's fictional and personal projects.  Most of the letters are to  John Campbell and Heinlein's agent from the late forties until the  mid-seventies, Lurton Blassingame; most of them also deal with something  Heinlein wasn't happy about, so the title of the book is indeed  descriptive: many of them do grumble pretty seriously.  There are only  three books that really give a picture of Heinlein the man, rather than  Heinlein the writer: besides this one, there is &quot;Expanded  Universe,&quot; with its prefaces and afterwords that often reveal private  insights, and there is &quot;Tramp Royale,&quot; a travelogue which is the  closest thing we'll ever see to an autobiography.  None of these books is  going to interest a casual reader, but all three are pure gold to a  Heinlein fan.  Until we finally see a full biography (which may not be for  another fifty years, since the correspondence is locked up), this is the  best we've got.	2000-08-14
US	51395538	RK4W3BENLM1DC	1853263699	627209202	DICTIONARY OF CLICHE (Wordsworth Reference)	Books	4	14	17	N	N	A cliche by any other name...	Don't judge a book by its cover.  Ordinarily, I'd avoid this kind of book  like the plague.  Still, you can teach old dogs new tricks, and everybody  deserves a second chance.  Follow your nose to this book; it's no skin off  my nose if you don't, on the other hand.  Not to gild the lily, this book  explains what cliches mean, and what their origins are, if known.  Don't  say I didn't warn you: some cliches aren't included.  But they are the  exception that proves the rule.  This book usually delivers the goods.	2000-08-14
US	51395538	RB2LNUQEHNJ5Y	0201624826	990894150	Beastly Behaviors: A Zoo Lover's Companion : What Makes Whales Whistle, Cranes Dance, Pandas Turn Somersaults, and Crocodiles Roar : A Watcher's Gui	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An excellent guide to animal behavior	This is the single best layman's book I have ever found to explain animal behavior.  Lavishly illustrated with black and white drawings, thoroughly  modern in its approach to animal behavior, and absolutely readable,  &quot;Beastly Behaviors&quot; is a book any animal lover will enjoy  reading.  Chock full of facts, the book is aimed at an audience stretching  from junior high to adults; parents interested in the book for their  children should be aware that sexual behavior is described very frankly,  should that be a concern.  Buy this book; you won't regret it!	2000-08-14
US	51395538	RQ5X70JJD3UKE	0060950315	571025806	The Little Pie Company of the Big Apple: Pies and Other Dessert Favorites	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The best pie cookbook ever	While I was writing my dissertation, I desperately needed a hobby that  would get my mind off of dead American writers.  As a lark, I sat down to  bake a pie.  It was edible, but that's the nicest thing I can say about it.   A decade later, I have read over fifty books on piemaking, many of them  published thirty or more years ago.  To date, this small, readable book  remains my favorite.  The quest for the perfect pie crust is as varied as  there are bakers, but my search ended with this book's &quot;Rich and  Tender Dough,&quot; which truly is perfect.  I've tried most of the pie  recipes in this book, and they've all turned out as delicious as described.   The Applesauce Pumpkin Pie, Pear-Apple Crumb Pie, Peach Raspberry Pie, and  especially the Key Lime Pie are favorites.  If you can find this essential  book, buy it.	2000-08-12
US	51395538	R3L5EOMJMU6BV8	1853263575	666821157	DICTIONARY OF INVENTIONS (Wordsworth Reference)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A good reference book, but not exhaustive	This book was first published in French in 1988, so it is fairly up to  date.  I have a slew of these kinds of books in my library; I hate not  knowing the answer to a question (or more precisely, not being able to find  the answer to a question).  Covering a wide range of inventions, this book  gives short, concise explanations of their origins.  My only real complaint  is that they don't cover enough, and sometimes obvious inventions are left  out.  For example, the airplane is omitted, and the Wright Brothers  probably would have liked to have been included.  Overall, a nice little  book that with some more work could have been the definitive take on the  subject.	2000-08-12
US	51395538	R28VOI6I7R3AA1	0679732071	387826770	Glenn Gould: A Life and Variations	Books	5	21	23	N	N	The best biography available	Otto Friedrich's biography of legendary pianist Glenn Gould is a dense,  finely researched, extensive look at the man George Szell once described  with the phrase, &quot;That nut is a genius.&quot;  I couldn't agree more.   As a product of my culture, I was utterly ignorant of classical music  growing up, seeing it as that boring music old people listened to when they  didn't care anymore about dancing.  Glenn Gould changed all that for me.   One night at a dinner party, the host heard me say something disdainful  about classical music, and he wordlessly turned around and put on Gould's  1955 rendition of the Goldberg Variations.  I haven't been the same since.   I now own every single recording he ever made; I still find it hard to keep  from laughing at people who suggest Gould didn't know Bach better than  anyone this side of God.  While I can recognize that other renditions have  merit, to this day I cannot hear a Bach keyboard piece without comparing it  to Gould's version.  This book was a wonderful companion to those  recordings, and I heartily recommend it to anyone who wants to understand  how genius and lunacy go so often hand in hand.	2000-08-10
US	51395538	R3LVD0BK0EHYZU	0813901308	987578574	The First Seventeen Years: Virginia 1607-1624 (Jamestown 350th Anniversary Historical B)	Books	5	47	51	N	N	The best introduction to the early years of Virginia	This short, chronological look at the first seventeen years of the colony  of Virginia has been in print since its publication in 1957.  Readable,  thorough, and lively, this little history is a clear-headed view of the  most troubled colony of them all.  Reading through what seem in hindsight  as the most bone-headed, dumb mistakes ever made by settlers this side of  the Pilgrims (who arrived in the middle of winter without sufficient  provisions), watching the colonists blunder time and again is graveyard  humor at its grisliest.  Jamestown was plunked down in the middle of a  swamp, where mosquitoes and foul water bred death (and the colonists knew  the cause of their troubles, but the bosses back in London wouldn't let  them move).  They antagonized the Indians over and over, then wondered why  the Indians were so hostile.  But the colonists also survived, against all  odds, and produced one of the most paradoxical of all colonies and states:  the birthplace of freedom and liberty in the minds of Washington, Patrick  Henry, and Thomas Jefferson, and the birthplace of slavery as well.  This  book should be read by anyone wanting to understand the roots of America.	2000-08-10
US	51395538	R17M43EZYLUST5	0155161482	64575253	Criticism: The Major Texts	Books	5	16	17	N	N	The classic collection of literary theory	In this day and age of splintered and broken schools of literary theory,  where nobody seems to agree what is the right way to go about reading and  discussin literature, W.J. Bate's &quot;Criticism: the Major Texts&quot; is  a wistful reminder of the days when critics were far more certain.  For  several decades after its publication, this collection was the classroom  standard for the subject; it still serves as the best collection for any  study of the history of literary theory.  The introductions are brief but  exacting; the texts are chosen with judicious editing; the lessons learned  are not easily forgotten.  In short, a wonderful read for anyone with a  literary bent.	2000-08-10
US	51395538	R3CQLP57PWNFE5	0393038572	185021976	The Lives of the Great Composers	Books	5	21	25	N	N	A perfect book for the musically inept	Let's get this straight right up front: I have no musical ability  whatsoever.  But I fell in love with classical music in one of those hoary  Introduction to Classical Music classes hundreds of people at a time take  in college, and it's been a self-taught, self-driven exploration ever  since.  There are a few books that have been constant guides, and  Schonberg's &quot;The Lives of the Great Composers&quot; has been one of  them.  Over the last fifteen years, I've read it from cover-to-cover  half-a-dozen times, and each time I've enjoyed it with deepening  understanding as the pieces of music he discusses have become dear old  friends, rather than intimidating strangers.  I have long believed that an  artist's life and his art have a conflicting relationship: how else does  one explain the monsters that so often create works of immortal beauty?   Schonberg has provided the non-musician with a musically aware text, and  all I can hope for is that some of it has rubbed off on me over the years.   Charming, humorous, and just the right length for each composer, you can't  go wrong with this book.	2000-08-10
US	51395538	R2KKUGNW7KRLYM	0809100673	708823081	History of Philosophy, Volume III: Ockham to Suarez	Books	5	17	17	N	N	The finest history of philosophy ever written	Warning: this history of philosophy is neither for the faint-of-heart, nor  the faint-of-mind!  Frederick Copleston's monumental 9-volume history of  western philosophy has never been equalled, nor is it ever likely to be.   The life's work of this Jesuit scholar, the history is remarkable both for  its breadth and its open partiality: Copleston believes in Thomas Aquinas,  and in any issue that Aquinas made a decision on, he makes his bias clear,  and then goes on to explain the opposing point of view fairly and honestly.   This volume of the late middle ages and early renaissance concerns itself  largely with Ockham and Suarez, with a smattering of philosophers between.   I would have liked larger sections on Machiavelli and Francis Bacon, but  those are easily available elsewhere.  Because Copleston started with the  Greeks in his first volume, and then obviously read all the primary and  secondary texts for that and each succeeding volume, he brings a breadth of  context to the history that still amazes me.  For anyone seriously  interested in philosophy, all nine volumes are to be acquired as soon as  possible.  It doesn't get much better than this.	2000-08-10
US	51395538	R3BFNC1FLDOMVF	0394701623	532778847	The Elizabethan World Picture: A Study of the Idea of Order in the Age of Shakespeare, Donne and Milton	Books	5	14	18	N	N	The one indispensable book for lovers of Shakespeare	Shakespeare is the one writer in English who can claim without dispute  universality: translated into every language on the face of the planet,  performed year after year in countless theaters, spoken by lovers stealing  his best lines in numberless trysts.  But unless you read this book, you  really have no hope of understanding Shakespeare.  First published more  than half a century ago, Tillyard to this day is utterly readable and  dead-on correct about the way the Elizabethans viewed the world.  What  almost everybody misses about Shakespeare is that he was essentially a  conservative, dedicated to supporting the government which allowed his  plays to be performed; this book explains why all of Shakespeare's plays  support the established order, and crush anyone who would defy that order  -- even in the comedies, the order of the world is restored to where it  belongs.  Tillyard's book should be mandatory for anyone who thinks they  understand Shakespeare -- or who wants to understand Shakespeare.	2000-08-10
US	51395538	ROJ6DDTOS403M	0393008762	755602328	The Challenge of the American Revolution	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An excellent collection of essays	Edmund Morgan is America's most readable colonial historian, author of the  ground-breaking &quot;American Freedom, American Slavery&quot; and the  seminal &quot;The Puritan Family&quot; among other classics.  This  collection of loosely organized essays about the American Revolution is not  meant as an introduction to the subject (for which see Morgan's &quot;Birth  of the Republic&quot;), but a conversation for those who already know  something of the subject.  These essays range from a discussion of the  sources of the revolution (legal, traditional rights, intellectual,  religious) to the conflicts between the calls to freedom and the existence  of slavery.  First-rate reading for anybody interested in the subject area,  but especially for AP history teachers like me.	2000-08-10
US	51395538	R15YANALIMJAXL	0393952940	474084689	Benjamin Franklin's Autobiography (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	An outstanding edition of a classic American text	Anyone who has ever taken a literature class in college knows the Norton  Critical Editions: an absolutely first-rate version of the text, a healthy  supply of contemporary responses and letters, and the best essays yet  written about the text.  This edition of Benjamin Franklin's  &quot;Autobiography&quot; is no exception.  The quintessential American  Enlightenment figure, Franklin is far more complex than most people think,  and far funnier.  When it came time to write the Declaration of  Independence, the Congress wouldn't give it to Franklin alone, in large  part because they were afraid he'd hide a joke in it.  One of his most  infamous pieces of writing was under the guise of a prostitute being  brought before the court for having yet another illegitimate child -- and  then attacking the court for making it necessary for her to pursue her  profession!  And the letter Franklin wrote his own illegitimate son about  how to keep a mistress is a classic in and of itself.  The only great flaw  in the autobiography is that it stops before Franklin ever reaches the  Revolutionary War, and thus we don't have the inside story of that perilous  time.  But anybody wanting to understand Franklin's life, the means to  wealth, or the evolution of a brilliant mind will love this text.  It's  mandatory reading for every American, in my mind.	2000-08-10
US	51395538	R3NR62T4AEKEOU	0393307166	622292030	Partial Payments: Essays on Writers and Their Lives	Books	5	29	29	N	N	A wonderful collection of literary essays	Joseph Epstein's collection of essays on various literary figures carries with it two of my favorite virtues: readability and inclusiveness.  A book  that is readable (or if difficult, rewards the effort, like Faulkner's  novels) and that covers all the bases is a joy to find, and &quot;Partial  Payments&quot; fits that category nicely.  Epstein's basic method is this:  read all of a writer's works, a healthy piece of the biographical writings,  and then cogitate upon the subject.  Each one of Epstein's essays  effectively provides an introduction to the writer under scrutiny; each one  carries with it a sense of worth and incisive definition of the writer's  gifts.  Epstein takes for the most part writers who have fallen out of the  canon (like H.L. Mencken), or who are no longer read outside of literary  history classes (like Theodore Dreiser), or who need fresh views (like E.B.  White), and strikes off a portrait in words.  Every single one of his  essays is worth reading, and most of them have sent me to the local library  or Amazon to buy one of the recommended texts.  In short, a guidebook to a  literary cornucopia of the unjustly forgotten or neglected.	2000-08-08
US	51395538	R3QTCVAJ6I8RZK	0208022511	973898153	The Napoleon House	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The friendliest book of poetry I've ever read	Walter Schindler's book of poems, &quot;The Napoleon House,&quot; has  pleased me for nearly a decade now.  While I wouldn't call Schindler's  poems revolutionary or staggeringly original, I would call them friendly,  warm, touching, and real.  Each poem drips with the feeling that Schindler  poured his life into each one, driving himself to find the absolutely right  image, mood, and word.  This is exactly the kind of poetry utterly missing  from the academic poets, who see this sort of heart-on-the-sleeve  virtuosity as hopelessly outdated.  This attitude is directly analagous to  those who believe that sculpture since August Rodin means anything (which,  in my humble opinion, it doesn't: obscurity and a refusal to even attempt  to communicate with one's society have never made for good art: even T.S.  Eliot believed he was speaking to the world, and not his own private  circle.)  Schindler is attempting to make each poem matter, to make each  poem memorable, and to strike the lightning from the heavens with each  attempt.  He doesn't fully succeed with each try, but who does?  Even Yeats  and Whitman have their dogs.  I especially love the sense of dialogue  Schindler has with his readers: at one point, in a little comic interlude,  he tells us to go away, find somebody to make love, and to live poetry  rather than read it.  All in all, a charming, unpretentious book that  should be far better known than it is.	2000-08-07
US	51395538	R3NN52S1C3G7I1	0380731045	192113913	Painting the Black (Avon Camelot Books)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A third winner from Deuker	Carl Deuker is quickly coming to dominate the sports novel for the young adult market.  While his first novel, &quot;On the Devil's Court,&quot; is  still his most original, his last two, &quot;Heart of a Champion&quot; and  &quot;Painting the Black&quot; show a deepening moral concern and a growing  ability to write exciting sports scenes.  All three of his novels are worth  reading by anyone into sports and friendships and tough choices.  My only  concern is that he is starting to write himself into a corner: his last two  novels are something of the same plot and characters.  The narrators adore  sports, but aren't that good at them; they meet somebody who is incredibly  good at sports, but not so good at making moral choices; the narrator gets  lifted up by his hero worship of his friend, then has to cope with the  realization that his friend isn't perfect.  A great plot, to be sure, but  Deuker needs to take a step back and not do it a third time.  That said, I  would read anything Deuker writes: he's that good.  He's especially good  for young men who don't care much for reading; his plots move fast, his  sentences rattle after each other as fast as lightning, and he doesn't pull  any punches.	2000-08-07
US	51395538	R28G82POVOLWKU	0393310884	529154326	Henry Clay: Statesman for the Union	Books	5	29	31	N	N	The most important failed politician in US history	Robert Remini is far better known as the biographer of Henry Clay's great enemy, Andrew Jackson.  But in turning to a biography of Henry Clay, who  lost every presidential race he entered, Remini has found a subject just as  worthy of attention.  Both Clay and Jackson belonged to the generation of  American leaders who succeeded those Founding Fathers; like their  contemporaries Daniel Webster, Martin Van Buren and John C. Calhoun, they  charted the course of the United States from its roots as a rather elitist  republic into a more democratized republic.  Benefiting from the expansion  in the franchise following the War of 1812, all five of these men vied for  the Presidency at one time or another, and all five were involved in the  greatest debates of the antebellum world: slavery, abolition, the formation  of the second party system of the Whigs and the Democrats, the expansion  westward, and the attempts to steer a course away from civil war.  In order  to understand Abraham Lincoln and the Civil War, one needs to know the life  of his great hero, Henry Clay.  There is simply no substitute for this  book, and Remini tells his story with gusto and intelligence.  I knew from  the first page that it would be fascinating, as Remini tells the deathbed  story of Andrew Jackson.  Someone asked Jackson if he had left anything  undone.  Jackson supposedly replied, &quot;Yes.  I didn't shoot Henry Clay,  and I didn't hang John C. Calhoun.&quot;  A great story, about an era when  politicians were also statesmen.	2000-08-07
US	51395538	R1VUFIYDO4LKMX	0446606669	234515585	Dinosaur Summer	Books	3	16	16	N	N	A mixed bag of fun and disappointments	As somebody who spent his early adolescence watching old monster movies like &quot;King Kong&quot; and reading old science fiction like &quot;The  Lost World&quot; by Arthur Conan Doyle (the creator of Sherlock Holmes, if  you don't know), I was truly excited when I picked up &quot;Dinosaur  Summer.&quot;  It was such a great idea, to treat the tale of Professor  Challenger as if it actually happened.  But when I was done reading it, I  was curiously disappointed.  I had loved the premise, and even enjoyed  parts of the narrative, but when it was done, I felt like I'd been cheated.   I think the mixed reviews this book has received come from this: we were  led into the book expecting a kind of Golden Age science fiction, with lost  worlds and intrepid professors and risks and dangers and escapes, and we  were presented with a 1990s sensibility of moral and environmental  failures.  Nobody succeeds at much of anything in this book, which runs  directly counter to the genre it's attempting to revive.  I love Greg  Bear's work, especially &quot;Blood Music,&quot; but here I think he forgot  the whole point of an homage: to recreate the spirit of the original work.   Still, I'm glad I read &quot;Dinosaur Summer,&quot; if only because it sent  me back to the originals again (which is another goal of homage, of  course).	2000-08-07
US	51395538	R1AVFJGHYSSV95	038546844X	598232579	A History of Philosophy, Vol. 2: Medieval Philosophy - From Augustine to Duns Scotus	Books	5	43	45	N	N	The finest history of philosophy ever written	Warning: this book is not for the faint-of-heart -- or faint-of-mind!   Staggeringly detailed, Copleston's history of philosophy is one of the  masterworks of twentieth century scholarship, but should only be assayed by  those who have done their basic work in philosophy already.  As a Jesuit,  this volume is perhaps the closest to Copleston's heart, given that it  covers Catholic philosophy from Augustine to Thomas Aquinas (who Copleston  believes is his own truest philosopher), as well as a few odds and ends of  medieval philosophy.  The sections on Augustine and Aquinas are still  required reading for anybody wanting to understand the attempt to reconcile  philosophy and theology, the primary intellectual debate of the middle ages  in Europe.  For many readers, the debate simply won't matter any longer,  but anybody wishing to understand the medieval mind absolutely needs to  read this book.  Yes, your head may swim in keeping the arguments over what  now seems to many to be inconsequential trivia, but the terms and arguments  that Aquinas defined set the ground for many unresolved arguments to  follow.	2000-08-07
US	51395538	RJCKMS01LELTB	0312861834	897807345	Starswarm: A Jupiter Novel	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A reputable imitation of Robert Heinlein's juveniles	The &quot;Jupiter Series&quot; was started by Jerry Pournelle and Charles  Sheffield in &quot;Higher Education,&quot; and that first novel is still  the best book in the series.  Several others have been written by Sheffield  solo, and they're all worth reading.  I wish the two would get together and  write a sequel using the first novel's characters, since we were left with  the implication that such was coming.  &quot;Starswarm&quot; is Pournelle  going at it alone, and like many of his solo novels, they're good, but not  as good as his collaborations.  Like Larry Niven in recent years, Pournelle  and another writer together prove the whole is greater than the parts.  In  this one, Pournelle creates a very interesting alien, a series of exciting  and escalating conflicts, and a creditable resolution.  My one quibble with  him is that I doubt the kids centuries from now are still going to be  playing &quot;Warcraft&quot; as their video game of choice.  If you like  science fiction, have fond memories of reading Robert Heinlein's juveniles,  or are a young reader looking for more of the &quot;Jupiter Series,&quot;  &quot;Starswarm&quot; won't disappoint.	2000-08-07
US	51395538	R3S8HOOOV4KCQT	093033082X	237705463	Rocket to the Morgue	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Pure joy for classic science fiction fans	&quot;Rocket to the Morgue&quot; isn't the greatest mystery novel ever written; it isn't even the best locked room mystery ever written.  The  ending is telegraphed from the fictional excerpts before the first chapter;  there are far too many characters and more than one detective to keep track  of comfortably.  But &quot;Rocket to the Morgue&quot; is a joy to read for  a completely different reason: the author, Tony Boucher, was a close friend  of many of the golden age of science fiction's writers living in Los  Angeles before the war.  Boucher took his friends, mixed them up a bit, and  turned them into characters in the novel.  The fun comes in playing  detective yourself, and trying to figure out who is who.  Jack Williamson  identified most of them in his autobiography, and the rest are fairly easy  to figure out if you know your writers.  Don't read the rest of this review  if you want to figure them out on your own!  Austin and Bernice Carter are  based on two pairs of husbands and wives: Robert and Leslyn Heinlein, and  Henry Kuttner and C.L. Moore.  After they are first introduced, the Kuttner  and Moore fade away, and the rest of the Carters are pure Heinlein: reading  Austin Carter's arguments is like being a fly on the wall of Robert  Heinlein's writing room!  Joe Henderson is a mix of Jack Williamson and  Edmund Hamilton; Matt and Concha Duncan are Cleve and Vida Cartmill.   Chantrelle is a lunatic of a rocket scientist who also believed in  hermeticism by the name of Jack Parsons (after the war, a certain science  fiction writer turned religious founder stole Parsons' wife and swindled  him out of $10,000).  Don Stuart is editor John Campbell; the murder victim  is based on an obnoxious fan by the name of &quot;Tubby&quot; Yerkes.  All  in all, anybody interested in the character and lives of the early golden  age of science fiction in Los Angeles needs to read this roman-a-clef.	2000-08-07
US	51395538	R301AW9VVR6CQ	1555971423	96996160	The Animals	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A good idea, but not always successful	Richard Grossman's extensive (and extended) series of poems &quot;The  Animals&quot; is perhaps the most famous of environmentalist poems.  Using  the figure of a shepherd to interact and speak with a couple of hundred  different animals, Grossman attempts to find the common ground among all of  the animals of the planet.  Unfortunately, I found myself not being able to  take many of these poems seriously, not least because of my intimate  knowledge of Ogden Nash's animal poems, which are far funnier and wittier  than even the best of Grossman's poems.  But it's an ambitious project at  that, and I can recognize and appreciate Grossman's sincerity.  There is a  remarkable awareness of each animal's individual behavior, even as it melds  into a stylistic sameness that may or may not have the purpose of arguing  that all life is of one equality.  In short, if you love animals and are  willing to put up with a certain amount of borderline New Age arguments,  you'll enjoy &quot;The Animals.&quot;	2000-08-03
US	51395538	R3MO0DD3LCPPRB	031206327X	648748268	A Daughter's Geography	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Poetry that matters	Ntozake Shange is most famous for her theatrical dance piece &quot;for  colored girls who have considered suicide / when the rainbow is enuf.&quot;   But this 1983 poetry collection shows her to be a powerful wordsmith as  well: these poems evoke a childhood of intimate knowledge, an adulthood of  anger and loss and the desire for change, and a lover who isn't about to  take any more garbage from anybody.  Shange's voice slips from a poetic  tone to a street slang and back again smoothly and seamlessly.  There are  moments I will never forget in this collection: the opening trio of poems  are a tribute to Duke Ellington, among others: when she says &quot;it  hasn't always been this way / ellington was not a street / robeson was no  mere memory&quot; I could feel the words strike me with the insistent lure  of song referenced by its title: &quot;Mood Indigo.&quot;  As one of her  lines says, &quot;our doors opened like our daddy's arms,&quot; this  collection will pull you in and make you feel the poet's world in a way few  poets are capable of in this day of polite, obscure poetry.	2000-08-03
US	51395538	R2917RE4QMBPFH	0865474095	1763235	Death is the Place: Poems	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A quiet collection	In this collection, American Book Award winner William Bronk write a  series of very, very short sharp poems on a variety of subjects.  Most of  the poems are just two or three lines; a few of them are mildly humorous  (&quot;Reality is willing we should think / about it: no harm.&quot;).   There are moments of striking beauty: &quot;Summer is the deepness of  trees.&quot;   Many of the poems contemplate the meaning of death, and the  relationship between man and the deity.  These are serious poems, by a poet  highly respected if somewhat unknown.  While I would not recommend Bronk to  anybody just falling in love with poetry, he is a wonderful acquaintance  for those who have met the major poets and want a quiet corner to sit in  and reflect.  Nothing major here, but a nice place to visit.	2000-08-03
US	51395538	RUQC64X2R2EG8	2908007193	723374985	Sun (Cahiers Ulysse, fin de siecle) (French Edition)	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Frustrating obscurities	A friend of mine once dreaded the arrival of any new book of poetry,  because it would require learning an entirely new set of allusions and  references before the poetry would make any sense.  I know how she feels.   Michael Palmer's &quot;Sun&quot; is a collection of poems full of obscure  references to Stein, Derrida, Vallejo, and other high culture icons.   Reading poetry really shouldn't be like consulting one's encyclopedia; even  though I recognized most of Palmer's references, I enjoyed none of his  poems.  There are no sharp images that remain in the mind; there are no  flashes of insight into human nature that will stay with me for the rest of  my life.  I was just exhausted after reading this collection, and not the  good exhaustion one feels after reading Ezra Pound or T.S. Eliot.  To quote  Gertrude Stein, &quot;There's no there, there.&quot;	2000-08-03
US	51395538	R3N9JFHSFB6XXH	0879756535	645217985	Heroic Worlds	Books	5	15	17	N	N	The best history of gaming ever	I began role-playing in the late seventies, when all of the earliest  role-playing games were still available for sale.  Reading &quot;Heroic  Worlds&quot; is like returning to those early days, both in its  comprehensive listing of every role-playing game release available up  through 1990, and in its evocation of the state of the art of role-playing  games in its early days.  This book is bound to be a classic for a number  of reasons: one, it's the only place that will serve the collector hoping  to buy every single supplement for their favorite game; two, it's the best  history available on the subject, even today; and three, it will serve the  game designers of the future, in seeing what has already been done, and  what still remains to be done.  It's a wonderful read, as well.  Now all we  need is a second edition, that updates the subject to the present day!	2000-08-03
US	51395538	R57HFES6WO0I2	094443925X	393079459	Epiphany at Goofy's Gas	Books	2	0	8	N	N	Keeler, trying hard	Greg Keeler wants to have his poems mean something; at every turn, he's trying to define the indefinable, which is the job of every poet worth his  salt.  Unfortunately, too often these poems simply work by the numbers  instead of shocking and surprising us with the sense of bewildering  discovery that this poem holds the truth.  At times, the poems are simply  derivative; his poem on &quot;The Guilt Bug&quot; is a spiritual rip-off of  Philip Larkin's paean to the inherited complexes one gets from parents,  &quot;This Be the Verse.&quot;  His memo poems are very like the poems  William Carlos Williams wrote on his little prescription pads.  He works in  the confessional mode, but has none of the nuttiness that the confessional  mode requires to be truly shocking.  Overall, there are moments when I  enjoyed his folksy twists away from the poetic, but nothing stuck in my  head as truly marvelous.	2000-08-03
US	51395538	R1A72EMDI5VQOJ	0929654927	310409313	The Colors of Infinity	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Poetry that still lies connected with real life	Far too many poets spend their days in the college classroom.  It's a  necessity, given the small financial rewards of even the best-selling of  the poets, but it does create a rather incestuous self-referentiality in  poetry.  Donald Everett Axinn (at least at the time of this collection) was  a businessman, and it shows in his poetry.  Aware of the trends of  contemporary poetry, and capable of matching its subtle nuances, Axinn  chooses instead to write as if poetry still mattered to those who do not  spend their lives reading obscure poets.  There are real emotions in these  poems, told with a full bite of life in them.  At times, Axinn reaches the  memorable; that he does not have the lightning of a truly great poem strike  him in this collection is not his fault: that happens but once or twice in  any poet's life.  My favorite poems in this collection are &quot;On  Father's Day,&quot; where the death of the father becomes the emotional  inheritance of that day, and &quot;Down in the Valley,&quot; a potent lyric  to a beloved, who &quot;waits amid ripened corn / her hands / outstretched  / Oh I shall race down / to a slow dance / and clasp her / in the  glistening gold.&quot;  Some fine stuff here.	2000-08-03
US	51395538	R2CMQDUNFSEAIK	0809001586	137245025	Changes in the Land: Indians, Colonists and the Ecology of New England	Books	5	48	56	N	N	A truly original work on the Puritans	At one point in my life, I read every single thing ever written on the Puritans; I was preparing for a dissertation that took me a year to prepare for, only to find somebody else published almost exactly what I was working  on a month before I sat down to write.  To this day, I have an inordinate  fondness for books on the Puritans that mystifies my friends.  Like all  fans, I know everything there is to know about the subject at hand.  So my  joy in discovering &quot;Changes in the Land&quot; was in finding a book  that told me much that I didn't know about the Puritans.  William Cronon, a  student of my favorite colonial historian Edmund Morgan, has come up with  an excellent mix of ecology and anthropology, history and theology.  The  development of New England as a land separate from the Indians, and from  their uses of the land, is one which resonates throughout American  mythology.  From the Pilgrims' first Thanksgiving (wherein their wholesale  adoption of Indian agriculture kept them starving) to the wholesale  abandonment of New England farms in the early 1800s due to their miniscule  returns, Cronon covers all the bases.  A truly fine read for anybody  wishing to know more about the history of ecology, the dynamics of  invasion, or the Puritans themselves.	2000-08-02
US	51395538	RH5Q678EOM0RK	0671879197	795317754	Inside the White House	Books	2	26	32	N	N	Mix one part gossip, one part history, one part scandal rag	Ronald Kessler is out to shock.  And shock he does: learning that Lyndon Johnson kept three secretaries on the payroll to supply him with sexual  favors in the Oval Office was a more frightening enough display of  presidential arrogance than anything Bill Clinton did.  But Kessler is  playing sloppy historian and journalist here.  One cannot keep on making  accusations about every single president in the last forty years, and then  not identify the source beyond &quot;a Secret Service Agent said.&quot;   While there are a number of responsible citations by name, by not revealing  his sources more concretely, Kessler violates the rules of the game: always  get confirmation from more than one source, and always cite your sources.   It's one thing to protect your sources for a daily newspaper, when exposing  the source can get him fired or hurt.  It's another thing to do it in a  book that wants to be taken seriously as history.  That said, this is the  thinking person's version of the National Enquirer.  You simply have to  separate out what has been attributed to a reliable source, and what has  been reported as hearsay.  All in all, a guilty pleasure at its most  reliable, and one best used as a source for stories to tell gullible  friends.  Another sign of our times, where the juiciness of the tale is the  top priority.	2000-08-02
US	51395538	R10SOUDI899AHG	1567312152	36705786	The Transcendentalists	Books	5	19	19	N	N	The best anthology of the Transcendentalists	Like its model, Miller's classic &quot;The American Puritans,&quot; &quot;The Transcendentalists&quot; takes all the major texts of the Transcendentalist movement, excerpts out the most important parts, and  frames them with Miller's brilliant comments to the subjects.  As in his  books on the Puritans, Perry Miller rides the subject like nobody before or  since.  Still the basic introduction to the writings, &quot;The  Transcendentalists&quot; will serve anybody wanting to move beyond Emerson  or Thoreau to the lesser-known members of the movement.  While the ellipses  can come to annoy those who want the complete texts, Miller's anthology is  still worth reading, if only because this man was the century's greatest  American intellectual historian.  If you haven't read Miller, you're in for  a long, difficult, rewarding journey, especially in his books on the  Puritans.  Without a doubt, an indispensable historian.	2000-08-02
US	51395538	R2QQ64LKDS9X6J	0517481022	795817933	The Annotated Sherlock Holmes: The Four Novels and Fifty-Six Short Stories Complete	Books	5	30	33	N	N	A godsend for any Holmes fan	Sherlock Holmes has been an obsession of mine since adolescence.  When I came across this relatively expensive set of books in junior high school, I  ran home and did every chore in the world in my entire neighborhood for  three straight days --and added up the dimes and quarters people would give  me until I had enough to buy these two volumes.  They have been with me  ever since.  For the first time, I understood what all those words were  that I couldn't find in a dictionary, with illustrations and explanations.   Even more amazing, I learned that Sherlock Holmes was a real person -- or  at least, the editors of these books believed so!  The product of a great  generation of Holmes fanatics, this collection is full of the arguments  over what each story means, what has been included by Dr. Watson, and what  must have been left out to protect the innocent.  The one truly  indispensable volume for Holmes fans, &quot;The Annotated Sherlock  Holmes&quot; is an unadulterated joy!	2000-08-02
US	51395538	R1ZF3FJRF2VFRW	0870233289	469930616	Jonathan Edwards (New England writers series)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Two first-rate minds confront each other	Jonathan Edwards was without a doubt the greatest theologian America ever produced.  That he was also without a doubt the greatest philosopher colonial America ever produced shows what theology was once upon a time in  America.  Obsessed with returning American churches to its more devout  Calvinist roots, Edwards began the Great Awakening in America, only to find  himself cast out of his own pulpit for daring to challenge the social order  of his church.  Edwards deeply investigated the concept of free will,  reconciling it as no other theologian had with the doctrines of  predestination and divine omnipotence.  But Edwards was also a figure of  the Enlightenment, and applied Locke's rationalist doctrine of the senses  to his preaching style, creating almost singlehandedly the  fire-and-brimstone approach used to this day to terrify poor sinners into  repentance.  Perry Miller, the twentieth century's most dominant American  intellectual historian, here explicates the life of Jonathan Edwards as no  one has before or since: on the merit of his ideas.  Miller was an atheist  who spent his life studying American religious movements; this was one of  his finest works.  Not to be missed by anyone interested in the history of  American religion or philosophy.	2000-08-02
US	51395538	RWSFGFWLEPCD2	068419368X	831879498	Sinatra! The Song is You: A Singers Art	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The music comes first	A century from now, nobody will care about the controversies of Sinatra's life.  But the music will live on, as sure as the sun will rise and set.  With the possible exception of Louis Armstrong, the twentieth century  produced no greater interpreter of song than Frank Sinatra.  When I was a  teenager, Sinatra was this old guy who sang about New York.  I didn't pay  attention; I was ignorant of the amazing career.  As an adult, I happened  upon a copy of &quot;Songs for Swinging Lovers&quot; in a used cd bin --  and that was all it took.  I have been a Sinatra fanatic ever since,  particularly of the music he produced from the mid-fifties to early  sixties.  Will Friedwald is quickly emerging as the foremost writer on jazz  singing; his book &quot;The Jazz Singers&quot; opened up whole new vistas  of music for me.  But &quot;Sinatra!&quot; is his masterpiece.  He goes  through the entire musical career, from start to finish, and quite simply,  puts down on paper every single relevant fact, from the composition to the  recording to the reception.  It's a tour-de-force of writing which I have  read cover-to-cover at least four times since I bought it when it came out.   My only complaint?  Mr. Friedwald, when are you going to do the same for  Satchmo himself, Louis Armstrong?  Until then, I'll just have to read this  book -- again.  Buy &quot;Sinatra!&quot; immediately -- you won't regret  it.	2000-08-02
US	51395538	R11NH8OKMJLFOQ	023105419X	916809268	The American Puritans: Their Prose and Poetry	Books	5	33	35	N	N	The most influential colonial collection	Perry Miller -- who, regardless of what the credit on top says, was not the photographer in this pictureless collection, but the editor -- was the twentieth century's most towering colonial historian.  Terrifying  generation after generation of graduate students at Harvard, Miller was one  of those people who knew absolutely everything about his subject: the  American Puritans. A confirmed atheist, Miller spent his life exploring the  lives of the most religious of all American groups.  This anthology, which  has been in print for the better part of half-a-century, is still the basic  introduction to the subject in most schools.  Taking excerpts on all the  most important subjects, Miller introduces each with his own framework of  ideas and connections; although the ellipses can come to annoy once you  really get into the subject, there is still no good substitute for this  collection.  Indispensable to anybody wanting the primary texts of that  most influential of all religious groups in America, the Puritans.	2000-08-02
US	51395538	RQC9YIBG5JA14	0306800330	886464032	Music Is My Mistress (Da Capo Paperback)	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Straight from the master's mouth	I'm a great fan of autobiography.  Granted, often it is sanitized and self-serving, but there's nothing like hearing a person tell their own life, especially if the life is as important as this one.  Without a doubt,  Duke Ellington was the century's greatest American composer and bandleader;  the only ones who even come close to him (Aaron Copland, George Gershwin,  Cole Porter) had neither his longevity nor his variety.  And none of them  also maintained a working band through six decades!  I own almost every  recording ever released by Duke Ellington; his music has become indelibly  printed on my brain.  This book may not be the most accurate account of his  life (if you can handle a little armchair psychology, the Collier biography  is the best choice for that), but this is like sitting in a room hearing  Duke talk -- and play!	2000-07-27
US	51395538	R2LFW6REZ43BKA	0704333813	339021396	Dizzy: To be or Not to Bop	Books	5	2	2	N	N	To be or not to bop -- it's no question!	I had front row seats for one of the master's last concerts: they were canceled a few days before the performance, due to illness.  Thus passed my only chance to hear live Dizzy Gillespie, who in my opinion is the  century's second greatest jazz trumpeter, right behind Louis Armstrong.   Miles Davis and Wynton Marsalis are great in their own right, but only  Dizzy seemed to be having as much fun as the great Satchmo!  It shows in  the recordings, which are infectiously glorious.  &quot;To Be or Not to  Bop&quot; is just as giddy and triumphant as the sound of his trumpet.   Dizzy goes through his entire life, covering all the bases honestly and  openly.  One of the great jazz autobiographies, and not to be missed by any  fan of his music.	2000-07-27
US	51395538	R12CONOOLRL7EC	0393006751	138417655	English Seventeenth-Century Verse	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An absolutely first-rate collection	The Metaphysical Poets were unjustly ignored for centuries until T.S. Eliot and the other Modernist poets brought them back to popular attention.  John Donne and Andrew Marvell are among the most famous poets in any  language; the metaphysical style, with its intensely worked metaphors and  striking impact, has never really been equalled for approachable  complexity.  Louis Martz' anthology has been the classroom standard for  nearly three decades, with his authoritative texts.  If you love smart,  emotional poetry from poets for whom love and faith are not abstract  issues, than this is the collection for you!	2000-07-27
US	51395538	R23QEZRWQ8L281	0201608170	225390378	The Virgin Queen: Elizabeth I, Genius Of The Golden Age	Books	5	18	23	N	N	An excellent, readable biography	Christopher Hibbert is one of my favorite historical writers.  At all times, lucidity, clarity, and narrative curiosity drive his writings.  I first read this one years ago, and it's still the most accessible biography  of Elizabeth I available.  My favorite passages, and the ones I've read to  history and English students time and again, are those on what Elizabethan  women went through to look beautiful in their eyes.  Anybody up for  lipstick made of mercuric sulphide?  The whole book is full on interesting  little corners like that.  All in all, a lively book.	2000-07-27
US	51395538	R2A67GPFJFWSE7	0671888048	857519991	Oedipus the King (Enriched Classics Series)	Books	5	27	29	N	N	An outstanding prose translation of a classic play	&quot;Oedipus the King&quot; or Oedipus Rex is the world's first great tragedy.  Almost everyone knows the tale of the man who murdered his father and married his own mother.  The only question is, which translation do you  read?  Bernard Knox makes an excellent case for his prose translation of  Sophocles classic.  This is a version designed for the a filmed version  meant for the classroom; as such, it is remarkably smooth and easy to read.   There is little poetry left in it; if that is what you seek, look  elsewhere.  This edition comes with a nice set of introductory essays on  the background of the play, the theater, and Sophocles. All in all, a nice  little edition.	2000-07-27
US	51395538	R10W3SRKJW23DI	157259442X	532712220	America's History	Books	5	13	14	N	N	An outstanding textbook for AP US History	I grew up reading political and military history; that's what I was taught in high school and college, for the most part.  When I took over my school's Advanced Placement program in US History, I decided that while I  could teach the traditional forms of history, such as politics and the  wars, I simply didn't know enough social history.  Given the fact that  social history is the dominant form of history today (and realizing that  there simply wasn't that much new to say about politics or wars), I turned  to this masterful textbook.  My students love this book: it's readable,  entertaining, and thorough.  I add in the political and military stuff,  when it's needed.  About the only major hole in the text is some  short-changing of the Monroe Doctrine, which is the biggest error that I  could see.  Teachers have to choose textbooks that address their  shortcomings; if you don't know your political or military history, choose  another textbook.  But if you have the same background I do (and most  people over thirty do), then choose this one.  It's been very successful in  my classroom.	2000-07-27
US	51395538	R3DP7R9D0K5LII	0691021236	178136064	The New Princeton Encyclopedia of Poetry and Poetics	Books	5	34	37	N	N	The ulimate reference work for poetics	I love huge, exhaustive books like this.  I hate not being able to find the answer to a question in under five minutes, and my library has dozens of books like this that make such searches easy (the internet is another  fast tool, but very few websites have more than the most basic knowledge.)   If you want to learn how to write poetry and learn prosody by hands-on  examples, go read John Hollander's little masterpiece, &quot;Rhyme's  Reason.&quot;  If you want fast biographical and literary references, go  check out &quot;Benet's Reader's Encyclopedia.&quot;  But if you want the  absolute last word on poetic forms and meters, with absolutely thorough  histories of each subject, use this book.  It's saved my critic's keister  more than once in the classroom.  As one of my professors said, a scholar  is not somebody who knows all the answers: a scholar is somebody who knows  how to find all the answers.  This book is an indispensable reference tool  for anybody seriously interested in poetry.	2000-07-27
US	51395538	REWWQ3K7HWG36	0380715449	177646975	Redcoats and Rebels: The American Revolution Through British Eyes	Books	5	57	59	N	N	A true reversal of perspective	Christopher Hibbert's &quot;Redcoats and Rebels&quot; is a book that would probably not have been published a quarter-century ago: it takes the most sacred of all political events, the American Revolution, and shows it  through the eyes of the losing side.  By the time this wonderfully readable  history is finished, you are not impressed by the British side: they made  one dumb mistake after another.  But at least now a reader can be aware of  precisely why the Americans won, and why George Washington is still to be  admired.  He lost battle after battle after battle after battle: and yet he  won the war.  He kept the army together, against all odds, and with the  invaluable aid of the French, put together a coup de grace that ended the  British political dominion over the newly born United States.  This is a  book for all lovers of political and military history, and in that, a very  old-fashioned book.  But anybody wanting to understand the American  Revolution, the single most important armed struggle in our history (and I  include the Civil War), has to take into account Hibbert's book.	2000-07-27
US	51395538	RIDFFQHUPYLY1	1557783705	975409106	History of Western Morals	Books	5	18	19	N	N	An excellent history of morals	Crane Brinton's 1959 &quot;A History of Western Morals&quot; is a wonderful history of what various western civilizations have believed to be right and wrong.  Beginning in the ancient mideast and Greece, and  continuing up until the middle of the twentieth century, Brinton combines a  historian's understanding of the past with a contemporary view of the value  of deciding moral issues with reference to the past.  He does not shy away  from suggesting which moral standpoints have the most value, but only after  examining the implications of each historical set of morals.  This is not a  book that caters to our current lack of historical understanding; you need  to know who the players are before starting to read this book (if you know,  say, who Luther, Aristotle, and John Stuart Mill are, you'll do fine;  otherwise, wait until you've had a class in western civilization in high  school or college).  Readable by anybody with a background in basic western  history, &quot;A History of Western Morals&quot; is one of the most  stimulating books I have ever read.	2000-07-26
US	51395538	R3NX0IIY62N9PM	0300027354	995840163	Rhyme's Reason: A Guide to English Verse	Books	5	48	51	N	N	The best book ever written on prosody	In this day and age of free verse and English classes where almost no poetry is read, much less written or memorized, John Hollander's little book, &quot;Rhyme's Reason,&quot; is a life-saver for all English majors,  teachers, and wannabe poets.  Teaching each and every poetic meter and form  ever used in the English language, John Hollander creates a few lines of  poetry that teach by their existence meter, rhythm, and poetics.  Although  I prefer the shorter first edition, the second edition will serve if that's  all you can find.  This book taught me everything my grandmother had  learned about poetry by the time she was in third grade; even on her  deathbed, she could run off lines of poetry she had memorized as a child,  showing off various meters at the drop of a hat.  Yet another skill we've  lost in this modern age, prosody is an essential craft for any poet,  songwriter, or lover of poetry.  Find this book!	2000-07-26
US	51395538	RSMAWI6A8OPXT	0153472804	66409391	Impact: Fifty Short Short Stories	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A fabulous collection of short short stories for teachers	&quot;Impact&quot; is a book my school has used for nearly a decade as an introduction to the short story, literary issues, and writing projects.  An excellent selection of 50 short-short stories, &quot;Impact&quot; follows  up each story with a discussion of some appropriate literary term, a  selection of questions that are actually worth answering (as a teacher, I  know how bad these usually are), and some really innovative writing topics.   The stories are all first-rate, from Shirley Jackson's &quot;Charles&quot;  to Hemingway's &quot;The Old Man at the Bridge&quot; to Arthur C. Clarke's  &quot;Who's There?&quot;  Most of the stories also hinge on some ironic  twist, allowing that most difficult and valuable of literary concepts to be  taught thoroughly.  Although a bit pricey for purchase just to read,  &quot;Impact&quot; is also an excellent collection for anybody aspiring to  write short stories.  They simply don't get much better than these!	2000-07-26
US	51395538	R1AOU030LM5PYY	0385468431	534838101	A History of Philosophy, Vol. 1: Greece and Rome From the Pre-Socratics to Plotinus	Books	5	29	34	N	N	The finest history of philosophy ever written	Warning: Frederick Coplestone's history of philosophy is not for the faint of heart.  This is not an introduction to philosophy: this is an in-depth, nuts and bolts, throw in every last detail you could ever possibly want to  know about the subject kind of book!  That said, I have to admire the man's  frightening strength of will, to complete his nine volumes as he did.  The  first, about the Greek and Roman poets, is an excellent place to follow up  a basic introduction like Will Durant's classic volume, &quot;The Story of  Philosophy.&quot;  Coplestone covers all the bases, and always presents his  own Jesuit philosophical stance as a clear bias, without letting it  prejudice his reading.  Understanding Plato and Aristotle is still an  essential requirement for the civilized mind; even if their arguments have  largely been disproved by science, they have still remained the starting  place for any discussion of philosophy, as well as any discussion of  western culture and literature.	2000-07-26
US	51395538	R17Y6PI1Y1DZVV	0345346521	704148235	Decision in Philadelphia: The Constitutional Convention of 1787	Books	5	39	42	N	N	The most readable history of the Constitutional Convention	The Collier brothers are an amazing act.  Authors of the classic children's novel, &quot;My Brother Sam is Dead,&quot; they also carry on careers individually as a history professor and writer on jazz  respectively.  &quot;Decision in Philadelphia&quot; is the story of the  Constitutional Convention from start to finish.  Told with novel-like drama  and narrative flow, this is the first choice for any general reader who  wants to know more about the issues driving our country's second national  government (the first, the Articles of Confederation, had failed  miserably).  Very readable, and very interesting, &quot;Decision in  Philadelphia&quot; is a book I have my own AP US History students read for  its depth of knowledge and ease of reading (although I wouldn't recommend  it for anybody lower than high school, unless exceptionally precocious and  obsessed with history).  All in all, one of the great popular histories  available on any subject.	2000-07-26
US	51395538	RJ3DMC4BMHO5Q	0786860278	145568963	Walt Disney: An American Original (Disney Editions Deluxe)	Books	5	95	106	N	N	A first-rate biography for a first-rate man	Walt Disney was my hero as a child.  I grew up a few miles from Disneyland; the re-release of a Disney animated classic was a major event in my life.  I first read Bob Thomas' biography when it was released in  1976, when I was thirteen.  I recently reread it, and found it just as  enjoyable as the first time around.  Sanctioned by the family, Thomas had  full access to the Disney records, and he provides what every major  historical figure needs: a book that gets the facts straight, so that other  biographers and historians can then argue correctly about interpretations.  And it's all here: his early life, the creation of his cartoons, the  development of Disneyland, his political beliefs.  While there is an  adulatory, respectful tone throughout, that does not mean Bob Thomas  ignores the more troublesome times of Disney's life, such as his conflicts  with organized labor before WWII, or his growing conservatism.  I know  today there is a considerable groundswell of hostility toward's Disney's  cultural dominance of our childhood.  But as the product of that dominance,  I can say that Disney's creations created in me a love of art, a sincere  appreciation for the past, and a genuine belief in childhood's sanctity.  My 3-year old daughter absolutely adores the classic cartoons, which we  always watch together.  Walt Disney is a classic American figure, and this  biography serves him well.	2000-07-25
US	51395538	R2I838VT9QIR1H	0226537579	952445961	The Birth of the Republic, 1763-89 (The Chicago History of American Civilization)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	The best, most readable intro to the Revolution	Edmund Morgan remains America's most readable colonial historian after a half-century of writing.  This short volume is still my favorite book about the American Revolution.  Written in clear, readable prose that anyone with  half-a-brain could understand and enjoy, &quot;The Birth of the  Republic&quot; covers all the major bases from 1763 to the Constitutional  Convention in 1789.  Primarily a political history, readers seeking for a  military history should look elsewhere.  But for almost fifty years, this  book has remained in print, luring readers into a deeper appreciation of  our most important piece of history: when the American colonies began to  separate themselves from the British Empire, deciding that one's political  liberties were more sacred than loyalty to a crown.  While in retrospect we  can now see that there was little tyranny actually being practiced against  the colonies, the fear itself of what dangerous precedent might bring  remains with us today.  A truly marvelous book, both for a general audience  and for those with historical awareness.  I first read this book as a  student; now, as a history teacher, I give it to my own students with the  greatest of anticipated joy: that they too will find this short book as  wonderful as any they have ever read.	2000-07-25
US	51395538	RB7LHPXF9YQNN	0312161247	406900137	Puritans at Play: Leisure and Recreation in Colonial New England	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Puritans at Play: not a contradiction in terms!	Of all the groups in American history, the Puritans still have the biggest bum rap of them all.  H.L. Mencken articulated this false view perfectly when he defined a Puritan as someone who laid awake at night, fretting that  somebody, somewhere, was having a good time.  While the Puritans did have  strong beliefs over the appropriateness of certain entertainments (such as  the theater, which they banned as a place of lies and the breeding ground  of crime), they did believe that God intended there to be joy in life as  well.  One of their greatest joys was sex: so long as it was within  marriage, the Puritans believed sex was necessary, wonderful, and to be  practiced often.  Indeed, when one man refused to have sex with his wife,  he was excommunicated from the Church!  Bruce Daniels' much-needed volume  on leisure and recreation in colonial New England fills up a hole in our  historical awareness of this intense group.  I loved this book, almost as  much as I loved Edmund Morgan's book, &quot;The Puritan Family.&quot;  This  one is not to be missed by history buffs!	2000-07-25
US	51395538	RO6CIGP29A833	0684923025	829960059	Rocket Ship Galileo	Books	5	27	32	N	N	The beginning of a great series of juveniles	Let's say this right up front: &quot;Rocket Ship Galileo&quot; is not Heinlein's best novel.  But it just might be his most influential work, and given that the competition ranges from &quot;Stranger in a Strange  Land&quot; to his early groundbreaking science fiction before WWII, that's  saying a great deal.  After his return from civilian service for the Navy,  Heinlein wanted to break out of the pulps he'd written for before the war.   He didn't want to stay trapped; he wanted to write for the slicks, for  girls, for boys, for the movies, for nearly every market that he could  break into.  &quot;Rocket Ship Galileo&quot; is not his first novel -- he'd  written several novel-length works for the pulps.  But it is his first work  specifically written for young boys, and the first of the dozen or so  juvenile classics to follow.  Heinlein's greatest literary hero, Mark  Twain, had written for boys; the market seemed open to him, and the money  looked good.  Heinlein always loved teaching young people, and this novel  would prove his greatest triumph in that regard.  Yes, the storyline is  somewhat hard to believe: three high-school age boys get taken to the moon.   But that was right in the tradition of the Tom Swift novels that had sold  so well to young boys.  Yes, the ending is corny to us now, with Nazis on  the moon: but in 1947, the Nazis has just been defeated, and they had been  the world's greatest rocket scientists: it seemed perfectly plausible in  1947.  The novel hasn't dated well in some respects; the dialogue is a bit  cheesy, and the characters are a little hard to tell apart.  But it still  moves with great excitement, and the science hasn't dated very badly at  all; Heinlein's experience developing high-pressure suits proved sufficient  to create a space suit remarkably like that later developed.  So why is  this novel so influential?  Because it was read by hundreds of young men  and women who went on to work in the Apollo program in the sixties;Heinlein, in this very novel, had convinced them going to the moon was  exciting, achievable, and important.  If any work of fiction has that kind  of impact, it deserves to be read.  But in and of itself, &quot;Rocket Ship  Galileo&quot; is still a page-turner, and a wonderful read.  Enjoy!	2000-07-25
US	51395538	R3J2ZPXE78R9F0	0380722690	366231888	Heart of a Champion (Avon Camelot Books)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A great second novel	Although not as original as his first novel, &quot;On the Devil's Court,&quot; Carl Deuker has produced an excellent second novel in &quot;Heart of a Champion.&quot;  Darker in tone due to the death of the  narrator's father, the alcoholism addressed in the book, and the ending,  &quot;Heart of a Champion&quot; is also one of the best baseball novels  I've ever read.  The friendship between Seth and Jimmy is gripping,  especially for those of us who have had friends more talented than we are.   I read this novel in a single sitting, and found much the same sense of  tension throughout the novel: if you love baseball, you're not going to be  able to put this one down either.	2000-07-24
US	51395538	R23E12OD1XTE4K	0671876716	44071865	Podkayne of Mars	Books	5	19	24	N	N	Heinlein's last book for young readers	After a decade of writing novels for young people (known as juveniles back then -- today we'd call them young adult novels), Robert Heinlein came back to the form for one last shot.  &quot;Podkayne of Mars&quot; is a charming  story of a young girl's ambition to become the first female starship  captain, and her travels to Venus with her uncle and her sociopathic genius  of a younger brother.  This edition puts together Heinlein's original  ending, the rewritten published ending, and a spate of letters from fans  arguing over their relative merits.  I read the story first as a teenager  with the gentler ending; I reread it recently with both endings.   Personally, I think either ending works, although I generally think  Heinlein knew what he was doing in the first place before editors started  demanding cuts.  A novel that promotes the idea of the equality of women,  as well as a diatribe against racism, &quot;Podkayne&quot; was ahead of its  time for 1963 (although the subjects were in the air the previous decade,  they weren't in literature for young people at all).  The argument at the  end of the novel, blaming the mother and father for neglecting their  children, has rubbed some people the wrong way; but the idea that one of  the parents ought to be home raising the child isn't all that dangerous, is  it?  After all, a dominant majority of our prison population was raised  without a father in the home, while the mother struggled.  Good parenting  creates good children; bad parenting, Heinlein is arguing, creates bad  children.  I, for one, don't object to Heinlein's literature carrying  philosophical or moral arguments; they help me to think about my own  positions, even when I disagree with Heinlein.  In my opinion, Heinlein's  tendency to have his characters voice strong opinions (which many label  preaching), is precisely the reason we're still talking about him.  There  are many writers of his era who told great stories; there are few we're  still botheringto read.  &quot;Podkayne of Mars&quot; is a great story,  but it's also a great argument: enjoy it on both counts, and feel free to  disagree.  I think Heinlein wanted it that way.	2000-07-24
US	51395538	ROQ59RJ83QV0G	0694003611	810682055	Goodnight Moon	Books	5	94	105	N	N	The perfect bedtime book	At the risk of sounding redundant, &quot;Goodnight Moon&quot; succeeds in entrancing every toddler (and every toddler's parent) who sees and hears it.  Unlike many other books suitable for children at an early linguistic  level, &quot;Goodnight Moon&quot; manages to capture both adult and child  in its charms.  The repetitive structure never bores, as it constantly  surprises with its rhymes and subjects (I still laugh at the blank page  where it goes &quot;Goodnight nobody&quot;).  My daughter is now three, and  she isn't quite as excited by the book as she was when she started hearing  it at one, and when she insisted on it every night when she was two, but  she still likes to take it out every once in awhile.  I still love  &quot;Goodnight Moon,&quot; however, and look forward to reading it to my  next child, and to my grandchildren.  I only wish my mother had known about  this book when I was a child!	2000-07-22
US	51395538	RWDX8D5LODFT	0762101342	931045689	Frank Sinatra: An American Legend	Books	5	11	14	N	N	An excellent introduction to the life of Frank Sinatra	Sinatra was the century's greatest entertainer, with the sole possible exception of Louis Armstrong (sorry, Elvis fans -- TV Guide had it wrong!).  I'm only in my thirties, but Sinatra has come to mean more to me than  almost any other singer (except for Louis Armstrong and Ella Fitzgerald).  This book is an excellent retrospective of his life, told chronologically  by his daughter Nancy.  Full of pictures and anecdotes from his friends and  family, the book is free from most of the overblown hype and scandal-sheet  tone of other biographies.  While it is only an introduction, and not the  last word, the book is a joy to read.  As a bonus, a CD comes with the  book, containing a number of rarities unavailable anywhere else.  When  you're done with this lovely volume, turn to Will Friedwald's book on  Sinatra's music; at this point of my life, I don't really care to know more  about Sinatra's personal struggles, but I do want to know as much as I can  about his most enduring legacy: his music.  And Friedwald does a better job  than anybody else ever has.	2000-07-21
US	51395538	R30R6EIO7F4ZDT	0679722645	951875669	The Maltese Falcon	Books	5	64	69	N	N	As good as the movie, which is saying a great deal	&quot;The Maltese Falcon&quot; is better known to most of the public these days from the movie -- which is as close to a perfect adaptation as any movie has ever gotten.  The novel is just as wonderful, if not more.  There  is a certain muscular quality to Hammett's prose that is mirrored by  Huston's graphics, but Hammett has to be read to see what marvelous  sentences he constructed.  There are a few significant differences from the  movie: Sam Spade in the book is described as a &quot;blond Satan,&quot; and  the heroic quality that Humphrey Bogart projected is darker in the novel.   There is a long story, told while Brigid and Sam wait, about a man named  Flitcraft who disappears; the story is central to understanding Sam's view  of humanity.  And there is Gutman's daughter, who is cut completely from  the film.  There are other minor differences, but taken all in all, the  movie served the book well.  Fans of the movie will love the novel, and  fans of the mystery and detective genre who haven't read Dashiell Hammett  are missing the genesis of the hard-boiled detective.  An outstanding read!	2000-07-21
US	51395538	R2T8EXWNBNB615	1888889047	520629531	Pushcart's Complete Rotten Reviews and Rejections: A History of Insult, A Solace to Writers (Revised & Expanded)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Soothing rottenness for all aspiring writers	If the greatest authors of all can be rejected and survive, maybe there's hope for all unpublished authors.  The publishing racket has only become harder and harder to break into these days, unless one is willing to go the  route of electronic publishing and on-demand printing, both of which remain  dangerously akin to vanity press printings as of this review.  This  wonderful little collection serves as a comic tonic to the rejection and  review blues; although some of the authors are obscure today (which is my  reason for not giving it full marks --it's hard to laugh when you have no  idea what book is being rejected), overall it's a marvelous little read.   Some examples of rotten rejections: Tony Hillerman was told to &quot;get  rid of all that Indian stuff&quot;; J.G. Ballard was told &quot;the author  of this book is beyond psychiatric help&quot;; William Faulkner was told  about his novel &quot;Sanctuary&quot; &quot;Good God, I can't publish this.   We'd both be in jail.&quot;; and my favorite, &quot;I'm sorry, Mr.  Kipling, but you just don't know how to use the English language.&quot;   When one considers that J.K Rowling had the first Harry Potter book  rejected ten times before it was published, one has to wonder what  publishers are thinking.  Now you can see for yourself how badly they  perceive literary quality, most of the time.	2000-07-21
US	51395538	R38B7QMNMRH2S3	0312198698	189239880	The Encyclopedia of Fantasy	Books	5	33	38	N	N	The one indispensable fantasy reference work	Like the companion volume, &quot;The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction,&quot; &quot;The Encyclopedia of Fantasy&quot; tries to include everything within its thick volume.  Finally, readers can find the name of  every single book ever published by their favorite authors.  This is not  the kind of book one reads from cover-to-cover; the sheer staggering amount  of detail alone would prevent any useful retention.  Rather, it is the  perfect playing ground for encyclopedia tag: pick a page, read a topic,  then follow the bouncing references until you get hopelessly, wonderfully  entangled in ideas and authors you've never encountered before!  My only  minor complaints are the too-brief biographies for the authors, and the  occasional over-opinionated discussion of an author's works.  But even  then, the book sparks curiosity by leading a reader to want to know more  about an author or idea.  An excellent gift for readers who constantly have  a fantasy novel in their hands (and for whom you're afraid to buy a book  for fear they've already read it).	2000-07-20
US	51395538	R3QA0MGJN3KLOD	031213486X	413821175	The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Finally, the book with almost all the answers	Science fiction has long needed this comprehensive encyclopedia.  Although the biographical details are necessarily short, and some of the entries border on the hopelessly opinionated, the authors provide an invaluable  listing of almost every single author and subject in the genre.   Particularly wonderful are the bibliographies of the complete books of each  author; finally, a reader can know if he's read all of his favorite writer.   It's not the kind of book one reads from cover to cover, but playing  encyclopedia tag is wonderful fun; pick a page, read an entry, and then  follow the references to other subjects until you get hopelessly,  wonderfully lost!  An excellent gift for any readers who are never without  a science fiction book in their hands (and for whom you're afraid to buy  something they have already read).	2000-07-20
US	51395538	R2D5V1HFXSONP7	0859530124	732335486	The Little Mouse, the Red Ripe Strawberry, and the Big Hungry Bear	Books	5	42	44	N	N	A modern classic	My 3-year old daughter and I were in the local bookstore, and she came running over to me with this book in her hand.  She had just been playing with a baby mouse at the petstore, and we had compromised by buying her a  small stuffed mouse instead.  When she found this, she was convinced this  was the story of her mouse, who, like her, loves strawberries.  I had to  read it to her five times in a row before she'd even let me buy it; I can't  even begin to count how many times I've read it to her in the week since.   She just loves the mouse, the expressions on his face, and the joy of  eating her favorite fruit right after!  This is a great book that belongs  in every child's library.	2000-07-20
US	51395538	R3Q24LYLHQ066T	0451454359	734211580	Deathstalker (Deathstalker #1)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A great and gory space opera	Having cut my teeth as an adolescent on E.E. Doc Smith's space operas, I still have a sweet tooth for the guilty pleasures of space opera.  And this one's a doozy.  Owen Deathstalker is a historian forced to become a hero;  once the world falls apart for him, the action never stops.  Filled with an  astonishing blend of every cliche you've ever heard of in science fiction  (rogue AIs, espers, aliens, gladiators, an evil empress, corrupt lords, and  genetic engineering, just to name a few), the novel keeps moving like  there's no tomorrow.  I got down in the mud and had a good wallow with this  one.  My only caveat about the novel is that the dialogue tends to be  somewhat jarringly reminiscent of half-remembered lines from Hollywood  movies at times, with sayings better suited to the 1990s coming out as if  they were newly minted.  Fortunately, Green's use of these sayings declines  in his sequels, which are actually even better than the first one.	2000-07-19
US	51395538	R2CUPNZS9WOCPX	0449703282	673832433	Serpent Never Sleeps	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Good, but not as good as &quot;Island of the Blue Dolphins&quot;	Scott O'Dell was a great writer of historical novels for young readers.  &quot;Island of the Blue Dolphins&quot; is still one of my favorites from childhood.  I recently picked up &quot;The Serpent Never Sleeps&quot; to  see what he did with colonial Virginia, and I was somewhat disappointed.   In a historical novel, there is really no place for magic that works;  Serena's magic ring just jarred my sense of disbelief something fierce.  If  it had been an all-out fantasy, I would have enjoyed it more.  But the  journey to Virginia is told with real gusto, as is their shipwreck in the  Bahamas.  The arrival in Jamestown is fraught with danger and the threat of  starvation, and only Serena (who knows Pocahontas) can save them.  A decent  adventure, just not O'Dell's best.	2000-07-19
US	51395538	R5XAXG3M36U74	0451456084	475679568	Deathstalker War (Owen Deathstalker, Vol. 3)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	We're halfway done!	This is prime space opera, done in 1990s fashion.  Violence and superhuman  powers abound; surprises and conflicts never end.  An overstuffed universe  full of wonderful science fiction cliches, Green's Deathstalker series is a  great escapist frolic.  It was wonderful seeing Deathstalker win the war  (oh, like you didn't know that was going to happen from the first page?).   It was also wonderful seeing Jack Random declare that there would be  democracy from now on!  In that, Green performs a minor miracle, as very,  very few space opera or fantasy writers realize the inherent ridiculousness  of an empire in outer space, replete with lords and empresses.  But then,  that's part of why the stuff sells so well, isn't it?  I enjoyed it as much  as the next reader, and Green truly does offer up an exciting tale.	2000-07-19
US	51395538	R3CSK8C0KVBFY	0451456483	856873155	Deathstalker Honor	Books	4	1	1	N	N	They won the war and lost the peace	The empress is dead, the war is won, and Owen Deathstalker wants a little peace.  Unfortunately, there are about half a dozen major forces, ranging from aliens to corrupt lords, who simply won't let peace reign.  So the war  continues, as Owen Deathstalker tries to settle the universe once and for  all.  The series continues its winding way through its abundance of aliens  and other threats, seemingly getting no closer to finishing, despite the  fact that there have been almost 2,000 pages so far.  I'm still enjoying  the books, as I space them out to about one a month, and use them to wipe  my palate clean between more serious reading.  The fourth in the series is  still great escapist fun, and I'm willing to go on to the fifth  Deathstalker novel(and last, or so we've been promised) in the series.   There are some minor attempts to discuss the nature of humanity and some  moral quandaries, but all these are papered over rapidly with more blood  and violence.  You want serious moral discussions, go read Orson Scott  Card.  You want shoot-em-up space opera, read Simon Green.	2000-07-19
US	51395538	R19HK0X4XQRQY4	0879305304	946326534	All Music Guide to Jazz 3rd Edition	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The best guide to jazz recordings ever	This book, in all three of its editions, has been a constant companion on record and CD hunts with me.  Not only is the third edition far more thorough than in the past, it also serves as an excellent place to keep  track of what I've got in my collection.  Given the constant repackaging of  recordings, it's been my misfortune in the past to double up on recordings  more than once.  Not any more!  Informative, deeply researched, and backed  up by an online service that adds new releases, the &quot;All Music Guide  to Jazz&quot; is an indispensable resource.  Now, if they could only  convince the record execs to release (or re-release) everything that's  out-of-print on CD, I'd be very happy indeed.  You can't go wrong with this  book!	2000-07-19
US	51395538	R2UX6UWXRJ02VW	0440995779	879872706	The Witch of Blackbird Pond	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A classic romance of colonial times	&quot;The Witch of Blackbird Pond&quot; has charmed readers fordecades now.  Kit's journey from the warm Caribbean to the coldPuritan valley in Connecticut has been read again and again, and will likely be read for decades to come.  A charming romance of an outsider trying to fit into a new and strange culture, the novel immediately brings the reader a sense of what it is like to try and fit into a world very different from the one you grew up in.  My only complaints about the novel are minor: the picture of the Puritans is far too cold, given what we now understand about the Puritans (although their persecution of the Quakers is dead on in the novel), and the ending seems a little too pat and contrived (I won't tell you, other than to say that everybody ends up with somebody they deserve).  Still, a wonderful read after all these years.	2000-07-19
US	51395538	R2KO1J7O2PZHUL	0152275177	530476060	The Fifth of March: A Story of the Boston Massacre	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A good Revolutionary War romance	Ann Rinaldi is coming to dominate the historical romance field for young adults.  Her novels always find the heart of the matter, regardless of the period.  &quot;The Fifth of March&quot; is no exception, as it places young  Rachel Marsh in the middle, between the Patriots like her employer John  Adams, and her young love, the British soldier Matthew.  The outcome is  taut with excitement.  My only complaint, and that is as a teacher and not  a reader, is that the history isn't quite detailed enough.  The issues  driving the Boston Massacre aren't laid out as clearly as I would like them  to be, but the story is good enough for me to ignore that complaint.  A  good, romantic read for young lovers of history.	2000-07-19
US	51395538	R3JOYUHQYYC8SZ	0440479002	966955750	The Sign of the Beaver	Books	5	29	35	N	N	An outstanding historical adventure in the wilderness	Elizabeth George Speare specialized in historical novels foryoung people.  &quot;The Sign of the Beaver&quot; is a classic tale of survival in the wilderness, as Matt must fend for himself while his family is gone.  An excellent tale of friendship and learning between Matt and the Indian boy Attean, &quot;The Sign of the Beaver&quot; keeps the action going from start to finish.  The novel doesn't flinch from facing the fact that the Indians are going to lose the battle for dominance of the land, but neither does it disrespect their culture. I like &quot;The Sign of the Beaver&quot; even better than &quot;The Witch of Blackbird Pond,&quot; which has always bothered me a bit because the ending is a little too contrived (every girl ends up happily married, with no loose ends) and the picture of the Puritans is too cold.  Any young reader with a hunger for adventure and learning will enjoy &quot;The Sign of the Beaver.&quot;	2000-07-19
US	51395538	R2O5UJC2PQGZHM	0877792011	18164875	Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language	Books	5	34	38	N	N	Sometimes bigger is better	With the exception of the complete Oxford English Dictionary, there simply  isn't a more useful dictionary available.  And unlike the exorbitant price  of the OED (unless you like using a microscopic text and magnifying glass  with the compact OED), the Webster's is sufficient for most users.  I've  been using mine for decades; the one I grew up with wore out.  I hate  abridged dictionaries; as a lifelong reader and writer, you never know when  an obscure word is going to come up -- and at this point in my life, those  are the only words I don't know.  Plus, the Webster's makes a dandy  footstool while you're at the computer!	2000-07-19
US	51395538	R1YB56L4VHWWDO	0451455525	655093984	Deathstalker Rebellion: Being the Second Part of the Life and Times of Owen Deathstalker	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A good wallop of a space opera	What you see is what you get: this is an enormously entertaining, but  ultimately shallow, space opera.  If you feel the need (as I occasionally  do), to dip your feet into the kiddy pool you swam in when you first  started reading science fiction, then this is the series for you!  I  enjoyed myself immensely, as I watched Green take his overstuffed universe  and wring it through its changes as he escalated the conflict.  It's not  deep, it's not important, but it's a great deal of fun!	2000-07-19
US	51395538	RDZMB2R7KMOVP	0440439884	909727634	Island of the Blue Dolphins	Books	5	1	3	N	N	One of my favorite novels, and a classic	I first read &quot;Island of the Blue Dolphins&quot; in fifth grade, way back in the early seventies.  I remembered it twenty years later, when I read it again as an adult looking to build a library for his daughter.   Scott O'Dell's tale of Karana is still as perfect now as it was decades  ago; none of the adventure has faded.  I had nightmares as a child of the  giant fish she battles; I still read it with excitement today.  One of the  great classics of survival!	2000-07-19
US	51395538	RIG57EPSG7Y5F	0761517111	459857619	The Insider's Guide to Classical Recordings, From the Host of The Record Shelf, a Highly Opinionated, Irreverent, and Selective Guide to What's Good and What's Not	Books	5	43	47	N	N	The funniest book on music I've ever read	Jim Svejda is a comic genius; that he also knows more about classical  music than most of the world put together is just a bonus.  Where else can  you read about the harpsichord sounding like &quot;two skeletons copulating  on a tin roof?&quot; That he is not particularly fond of baroque music  (outside of Handel) is the only major flaw in his reviewing; I too was  somewhat disappointed in his slighting of Bach's cantatas, and his handling  of Bach in general.  Fortunately, the latest edition redresses that fact  somewhat.  But I happen to agree with Svjeda that Harnoncourt and Leonhardt  have largely butchered the cantatas, as well as practically every other  piece of music they've ever recorded.  Svjeda does have his musical  obsessions: besides Handel and Mozart, he is truly obsessed with Fritz  Reiner and other composers who take a Romantic slant on whatever they're  recording.  But having bought nearly a hundred recordings based on Svejda's  recommendations alone, I can honestly say that I've never been  disappointed, and I've often been delighted.  The book is worth every  penny; I've read the last three editions from cover to cover, and I use it  to keep track of my recordings.  Since I have over a thousand cds, it's  become increasingly hard to keep from buying a duplicate copy of something  I don't listen to regularly.  Long live Jim Svejda!	2000-07-19
US	51395538	R5D0VLFVZ9EGW	0380708795	159564301	On the Devil's Court (Pendragon Cycle)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	An absolutely original sports novel	&quot;On the Devil's Court&quot; is a wonderfully fast, easy, and exciting read.  Joe Faust's life has gone into the dumps, and the only thing that matters anymore is basketball.  Unfortunately, his basketball game is  rotten these days too.  So, Joe sells his soul to the devil for a perfect  season of basketball.  Or does he?  Readers are propelled through the book  by one realistic conflict after another, with plenty of surprises to keep  the reader guessing about the state of Joe's soul.  I've taught this book  to high school freshmen for a number of years now, and the boys always love  it.  This is a great book for younger readers, or slower readers, because  it is written in clean, simple sentences that few readers will have trouble  with.  All in all, a first-rate first novel!	2000-07-19
US	51395538	RLA1TQALO2UUQ	0688109764	23799757	Constance: A Story of Early Plymouth	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A moving tale of the Pilgrims	&quot;Constance&quot; has been around now for thirty years, andit still remains the best children's novel about the Pilgrims.Although I now know the Pilgrims as a group weren't all that important (compared to the Puritans who followed them a decade later in much larger numbers), &quot;Constance&quot; is full of the feeling of what those first years in New England were like.  A great romantic tale of our nation's past, told in a moving, clear style, &quot;Constance&quot; is a wonderful story.	2000-07-18
US	51395538	R3HK2TSCK7M9HS	0812538900	476712339	Higher Education (Jupiter Novel)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Almost as good as Heinlein's juveniles	&quot;Higher Education&quot; is the best science fiction novel written for  young people since Robert Heinlein stopped writing juveniles in the early  60s.  Using a future history that is both shocking and sad in its  predictions (the satire on education alone will make any student or teacher  love the book), Pournelle and Sheffield quickly capture the reader's  attention with a classic prank.  Like all of Heinlein's juveniles,  &quot;Higher Education&quot; is a coming-of-age story, rife with the  hardships of that perilous journey.  The science is dead-on accurate; the  adventure is even better.  This is just a first in a series called  &quot;Jupiter Novels&quot; all set in this future; while the other novels  aren't sequels in the strictest sense of the world (and when will we get  that sequel, Dr. Pournelle?  Dr. Sheffield?), they are just as wonderful to  read.  I've taught this novel to high school freshmen over the last several  years, and most of them go on to read the other &quot;Jupiter Novels.&quot;   As an adult who grew up reading Heinlein's juveniles, &quot;Higher  Education&quot; brought me back that same sense of wonder.	2000-07-18
US	51395538	R2TADW1O5GEXM8	0061052159	733175341	Fantasy Hall of Fame	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The finest collection of fantasy stories ever printed	&quot;The Fantasy Hall of Fame&quot; fills an enormous hole in the fantasy  world.  While many of the best works in the genre are short stories, short  stories rarely stay in print for long.  This anthology presents the finest  tales ever written in the genre; with rare exception, almost any reader's  favorites can be found here.  Robert Silverberg hasn't done many  anthologies in recent years, but he used to put out one every year, and he  hasn't lost his touch.  Any young reader of fantasy novels looking for a  new chunk of his favorite reading material will be ecstatic; any long-time  reader will be overjoyed to greet old friends once more.  The list of  stories included is too long to be included here (which in itself is a good  sign!), but my favorites include Robert Bloch's &quot;That Hell-Bound  Train&quot; and Anthony Boucher's &quot;Compleat Werewolf.&quot;  A  first-rate collection!	2000-07-18
US	51395538	R1C3JZUXX3PBY1	059042792X	963278131	My Brother Sam Is Dead (A Newbery Honor Book) (A Newberry Honor Book)	Books	5	19	27	N	N	A classic Revolutionary War novel	The Colliers are probably the best brother writing team in America; James Lincoln Collier's books on jazz are easily the most readable as well.  &quot;My Brother Sam is Dead&quot; helped to launch the revolution in young  adult writing back in the early seventies.  To this day, the only young  adult novel about the American Revolution that's any better is &quot;Johnny  Tremaine&quot; by Esther Forbes, which &quot;My Brother Sam is Dead&quot;  was clearly modeled on as the tale of a young man torn by the pressures of  choosing sides in a war.  A reader learns more history from Forbes as well,  I think.  But &quot;My Brother Sam is Dead&quot; is a more accessible  story, and more enjoyable to students who may not be all that fond of  history.  A good read, and one that has weathered the years well.	2000-07-18
US	51395538	R3BGBIBMGMY1VC	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	18	22	N	N	The finest science fiction novel of the last quarter-century	&quot;Ender's Game&quot; is the novel that brought me back to science fiction.  After an adolescence spent reading every last word of science fiction and fantasy I could get my hands on, I went off to college, became  an English major, and discovered I had terrible taste.  I stopped reading  the genre for almost a decade, until a friend of mine shoved a copy of  &quot;Ender's Game&quot; into my hands and told me to remember what reading  was all about.  And &quot;Ender's Game&quot; is an all-out page-turning,  idea-laden, exciting read with the best surprise ending of almost any novel  I can think of offhand.  Although Orson Scott Card denies ever having read  Robert Heinlein's &quot;Starship Troopers,&quot; the novel is an almost  point-by-point refutation of Heinlein's closely argued paean to the  morality of war.  I adore Heinlein's book, even though I disagree with most  of his arguments; Orson Scott Card's plea for tolerance and rational  discourse before violence strikes my post-Vietnam mindset as far more  valid.  But I go back to &quot;Starship Troopers&quot; just to keep my mind  sharp; a part of me thinks Heinlein knew what he's talking about.  In  short, &quot;Ender's Game&quot; and &quot;Starship Troopers&quot; are the  bookends to any discussion about the future of the military and our  species' proper stance when the (hopefully) inevitable contact with  extraterrestrials takes place some day. And until then, I will always be  grateful to Card for waking me up from my snobbery and sending me back to  my roots.  &quot;Ender's Game&quot; is a novel that needs to be read by  everyone, both for its ideas and its sheer, fierce joy.  I've taught it now  for four years, and few students can keep themselves from finishing it the  first night they start it.	2000-07-18
US	51395538	R2EL0VDZXOWWSY	0812522397	484188631	Children of the Mind (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	26	35	N	N	A fitting conclusion to one of the great series	&quot;Children of the Mind&quot; finishes the story of EnderWiggins, as he finally reaches reconciliation with his past and present.  A dazzling array of ideas and conflicts, the novel comes to a very satisfying conclusion.  Starting &quot;Children of the Mind&quot; was a tremendous relief, because the ending of &quot;Xenocide&quot; had angered me with what seemed like an arbitrary escape from the plot complications.  Rather, the introduction of Peter and Valentine from the combination of Ender's mind and the new mode of instantaneous travel come to fruition in this novel, and prove to be the point of Card's entire quartet.  As always, this deeply religious man uses science fiction and fantasy as allegories to study the human spirit in all its facets.  Essentially, Card is proposing the divine nature of the universe, and its identification with each and every mind as part of that divinity.  Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry David Thoreau proposed much the same thing, as did Robert Heinlein in &quot;Stranger in a Strange Land.&quot; But Card takes these concepts to their broadest reaches in his recreation of the very structure of the universe, hinging the entire plot and character development of his entire series on this discovery.  Like all endings should, this novel moves much faster than the previous two books; in many ways, it's the easiest to read of the series after &quot;Ender's Game.&quot; Anybody who professes to be a science fiction fan needs to read this series; it's one of the classics of the genre	2000-07-18
US	51395538	R20YTJB5G6C5KZ	0393008967	610860437	The Meaning of Independence: John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, George Washington (Norton Library)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A marvelous little collection of lectures	Edmund Morgan is perhaps the most readable American colonial historian.   Best known for his books on the Puritans and colonial slavery, Morgan here  presents three lectures on what three founding fathers thought about  independence.  George Washington, John Adams, and Thomas Jefferson are  three very complicated individuals, and no short lecture is going to  completely explicate their ideas.  But Morgan brings his typical verve and  clarity to the subject, and speaking as a AP history teacher, I found them  to be well worth my time.	2000-07-18
US	51395538	R2E6OAH9ND6PGA	0812509250	4976316	Xenocide: Volume Three of the Ender Quintet	Books	5	90	99	N	N	Card continues to escalate the difficulty and seriousness	&quot;Ender's Game&quot; is a rapid-fire, tremendously adventurous novel  with a rip-roaring end.  &quot;Speaker for the Dead&quot; is more  challenging, as it turns a murder mystery into a philosophical quest.   &quot;Xenocide&quot; goes even further up the difficulty scale, and should  not be read unless a copy of the final novel, &quot;Children of the  Mind,&quot; is close at hand.  &quot;Xenocide&quot; takes the issues of  religion, racism, genocide, love, family, insanity, redemption, and the  nature of the universe as its subject matter; a truly amazing mix, as you  might guess.  But it's not really a stand-alone novel; when you come to the  end, you may feel as I did that Card cheated with a deus ex machina at the  end.  He didn't; I think he just decided to chop the novel off and publish  it, then publish the second half as &quot;Children of the Mind.&quot;  My  anger at the ending quickly faded when I started &quot;Children of the  Mind&quot;; clearly, &quot;Xenocide&quot; was not the end of the story.  I  loved the entire Ender Quartet, even if it was hard going for many readers  to shift from &quot;Ender's Game&quot; to &quot;Speaker for the Dead.&quot;   Card has produced a philosophical masterpiece of science fiction in this  series, and one that is only matched by his &quot;Pastwatch  Redemption&quot; in its scale and importance in his writings.  One of the  few genre writers worth re-reading in his or her entirety, Card continues  to amaze with the breadth and depth of his creations.	2000-07-18
US	51395538	R1I1LH8ICK1E2	0440431808	646438686	From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler (Yearling Newbery)	Books	5	143	153	N	N	A piece of my childhood returns each time I read it	&quot;From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler&quot; has got to be the longest, most confusing title of any classic children's novel, and I wouldn't change a word of it!  Having read my copy to pieces in the  fourth and fifth grade, I recently bought another copy to have in my  daughter's library.  Even though she's only 3 now, I know she'll love this  book in a few years.  To this day, whenever I go into a museum, I find  myself wanting to sneak into the bathrooms and hide there until after  closing, just so I can sleep in one of those old beds and jump into the  museum fountain for the spare change!  The novel is as good now as it was  thirty years ago, with all the same simple beauty of this fantasy of the  successful runaway.  If you haven't read it yet, I envy you.  If you have,  read it again -- it just gets better with age.	2000-07-18
US	51395538	RTFRW2622EYFT	0812550757	241285325	Speaker for the Dead (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	22	26	N	N	A great sequel to &quot;Ender's Game,&quot; but a different beast	&quot;Ender's Game,&quot; a fabulous novel, was rewritten from a novella specifically to allow the writing of &quot;Speaker for the Dead,&quot; a  considerably more complicated and challenging novel.  Ender Wiggin has  travelled from world to world, trying to find a new home for the Hive Queen  whose race he eradicated, so that he can expiate his guilt.  Along the way,  he has become a Speaker for the Dead, a kind of professional eulogist who  bares the soul of the corpse with all flaws revealed, so that we can come  to truly know the dead.  On the next world that Ender comes to, he becomes  personally involved in the family of the deceased, and in the indigenous  sentient species of this world, the Pequeninos.  A far more difficult book  to read than &quot;Ender's Game,&quot; a very different narrative style  drives the philosophical discussion of racism, family, love, and genocide.   Readers searching for the same kind of adventure story as &quot;Ender's  Game&quot; should read &quot;Ender's Shadow&quot;; anyone looking for a  truly serious, marvelous philosophical novel that also moves with grace  should read &quot;Speaker for the Dead.&quot;	2000-07-18
US	51395538	RKJI23GY53B18	078572916X	50385694	Truth Trap	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A great mystery driven by great characters	&quot;The Truth Trap&quot; is one of the best young adult novels of the last decade.  A hard-hitting look at the pain and suffering of Matt McKendrick, the novel shows his attempt to survive the murder of his  sister.  Adding to that difficulty is the fact that he is the police's  primary suspect!  Having taught this book for a number of years, I can tell  you that the scene in jail is enough to convince any male teenager not to  commit a crime; it's unforgettable.  Matt is a survivor, however, and he  fights back against the loss of his sister and his reputation.  An  excellent page-turner, &quot;The Truth Trap&quot; will keep you up at night  until you finish.  My sole warning to the reader: there are three sequels,  and the murder mystery is not solved at the end of the first novel (which  sometimes angers my students, until I tell them that the sequels are in our  school library!).	2000-07-18
US	51395538	R2MJKSSEATJU0S	0449702766	824139760	Dicey's Song (The Tillerman Series #2)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Even better than &quot;The Homecoming&quot;	While I love &quot;The Homecoming,&quot; I think &quot;Dicey'sSong&quot; is even better than that first novel.  Having read&quot;The Runner&quot; before I read &quot;The Homecoming,&quot; I came to &quot;Dicey's Song&quot; knowing all about Bullet and Dicey's grandmother.  I understood how important it was for Dicey and her siblings to make contact with their grandmother, who had cut off all contact with the world years before.  For me, Dicey really finds her home in this novel, rather than in &quot;The Homecoming,&quot; because it's in this novel that she makes herself at home with her grandmother and her siblings.  In short, a charming, touching read.	2000-07-17
US	51395538	RSRUKK3I29L5G	0679880909	893523493	James and the Giant Peach	Books	5	17	22	N	N	A classic beyond all doubt	&quot;James and the Giant Peach&quot; was the first novel Ireally fell in love with as a boy.  Roald Dahl's cruel beginningdidn't faze me -- it just let me know he wasn't going to pull any punches, and tell me a real story.  When James' parents are trampled by a runaway rhinocerous, I shivered.  And when I met the horrible Aunt Sponge and Aunt Spike, I trembled.  And when they were run over by the giant peach, I cheered.  Personally, I think J.K.  Rowling and the Harry Potter books are essentially Roald Dahl enlarged; that's probably why I love the Potter books so much.  The Dursleys are just like Aunt Sponge and Aunt Spiker, and Harry is just like poor James before he's rescued by the man with the magic worms.  While I'm not particularly fond of the movie (why, oh why does Hollywood always change the plots of classic novels?), I did love the animation. Children will love this book, and all of Roald Dahl's works.  If you've got a Potterhead who needs a new fix while he or she waits for the next novel, send them the original Dahl books.  They'll thank you forever.	2000-07-17
US	51395538	R1E55P0B2VBVRX	0590483803	903207758	The Runner	Books	5	34	35	N	N	One of the finest books ever written	Cynthia Voigt is one of the best writers we have today; the only reason she hasn't won Pulitzers and National Book Awards is that she writes for young adults, and most critics can't imagine any writer for that audience  producing anything of literary merit.  &quot;The Runner&quot; is the book  I'd show anybody who ever put down young adult novels.  By Cynthia Voigt's  own estimation, &quot;The Runner&quot; is her best novel.  She's right.  I  first read the novel five years ago; since then, I've taught it almost  thirty times in that period of time, and it just keeps getting better.   Every semester, some student points out some corner of the novel I'd  missed.  &quot;The Runner&quot; tackles serious subjects in a serious way:  racism, war, growing up, friendship, principles, parental conflicts.  Each  and every one of these issues is dealt with thoroughly and seamlessly in  the life of Bullet Tillerman, Dicey's uncle.  My students love the  rebellious Bullet; they are aghast when they realize he's a racist.  They  read with absolute fascination to find out what happens next.  The novel's  cast of characters are unique and original: Bullet's father and mother, his  best friend Patrice, and his teammate Tamer are unforgettable.  This is a  novel that I think will come to be remembered as the best novel ever  written for young adults, but even more, one of the finest novels of the  last 50 years.	2000-07-17
US	51395538	R1MGDPXSXKSFV	0345324382	208109050	Farmer in the Sky	Books	5	10	14	N	N	A must-read for any Boy Scout	While &quot;Farmer in the Sky&quot; isn't Heinlein at his absolute best, it is an exciting read for two groups: one, anybody who's ever been a Boy Scout, since that's essentially the main drive of the novel of a Boy Scout  who goes to another world; and two, anybody who ever wanted to be a  pioneeering farmer.  The novel's emotions are driven by those two projects,  and without a feeling for them, the novel isn't really going to work all  that well.  The plot that surrounds those two interests is minimal, as Bill  goes from Earth to Ganymede, and suffers only two real problems, one minor,  and one major (I won't give them away here; they're worth reading).  But  the novel is an early look at what settling another world would be like,  even while it's heavily informed by historical examples of what happens to  early colonies.  Heinlein wasn't in his best environment when writing this  one; he was in Hollywood, trying to prevent the suits from making his  realistic look at the first moon shot, &quot;Destination Moon,&quot; into a  musical.  I kid you not: they wanted the first astronauts to find dancing  girls on the moon.  So I don't really blame Heinlein for &quot;Farmer in  the Sky&quot; not being his best; it's a wonder that it's as good as it is.   Go start with &quot;Star Beast&quot; or &quot;Tunnel in the Sky&quot; of  &quot;Have Spacesuit, Will Travel.&quot;  Then come back to this one and  you'll enjoy it much more: even Heinlein on his worst days is better than  almost anybody else.	2000-07-17
US	51395538	RM8I2TAT9Z6LA	0525458344	505634716	Dinosaur Roar! Board Book	Books	5	24	24	N	N	My daughter's first favorite book	This was the first book my daughter ever fell in love with.She was around nine months old, and she just loved the bright picturesand the rhymes and rhythms of the simple but interesting words.  She especially loved the last page, where the dinosaurs start eating the book -- we usually tickled her like a dinosaur was nibbling on her, and she just laughed and laughed.  Although she's moved on to other favorites, it's a rare night that &quot;Dinosaur Roar&quot; doesn't get added to the stack of books she wants read to her at bedtime.	2000-07-17
US	51395538	R2CF6CL0UOJ8F2	0449702545	81726732	Homecoming	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A great beginning to a great career	Cynthia Voigt's cycle of Tillerman Family novels begins here in&quot;The Homecoming.&quot; A fast, exciting read of young Dicey'sattempts to take her brothers and sister from the parking lot where their mother abandoned them to their grandmother's farm hundreds of miles away, &quot;The Homecoming&quot; never disappoints.  While &quot;The Runner&quot; is my favorite Cynthia Voigt novel, anybody wanting to get hooked on Voigt should start here.  A classic novel, not to be missed by anyone capable of reading.	2000-07-17
US	51395538	R3AC8079WT0JIX	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Adults will love Harry Potter too!	J.K. Rowling continues to amaze me: who could have ever predicted that anybody would ever get children to read a book over 700 pages long?  I read it myself in a single sitting one night, and ended the book in a rage!  How  long am I going to have to wait for the next one?  The books just keep  coming out at the same level of intense imagination, and each one exceeds  my already high expectations from the last.  As an aspiring writer for  children and teenagers myself, I can only hope the publishing world wakes  up and realizes (as it used to, back in the fifties and sixties) that  children want to be challenged and amazed.  I can hardly wait until my  3-year old daughter is old enough to have me read these to her.  Fortunately, that's only a few years away.  And by then, Ms. Rowling should  have all seven Harry Potter books finished, and my daughter won't have to  wait like the rest of us!	2000-07-17
US	51395538	R9P2MNFAXJCRE	0915368617	546251587	Norstrilia	Books	5	47	50	N	N	A tragedy there's only one novel from this genius	Cordwainer Smith deserves the widest possible recognition.  Perhaps the most highly literary of all science fiction writers before the New Wave of the sixties (and still, for my money, a better read than most of that  failed revolutionary literature), Smith's single novel  &quot;Norstrilia&quot; is utterly unlike any other science fiction novel.   Rod McBan becomes the richest man in the universe through the economic  warfare of his inherited computer; the novel largely concerns itself with  the need to survive the acquisition of wealth.  Funny, poetic, and  touching, &quot;Norstrilia&quot; is a bittersweet read, because it starts  to show how Smith would have continued the expansion and collation of his  future history, the Instrumentality of Mankind.  Unfortunately, his early  death deprived us of what would have been the most lyrical of all future  histories.  At least we have his stories, which is where any new reader  should start (there's a new collection in print now); much of the emotional  resonance of the novel comes from recognizing characters from the shorter  works, especially the cat-girl C'mell.  When you're done with those shorter  glories, then come to &quot;Norstrilia&quot; and experience the longest  swim in Smith's pool.  You won't regret it!	2000-07-17
US	51395538	R233DZS2P61XKI	0805057455	916843846	Mama Cat Has Three Kittens	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A great story to read to toddlers	My 3-year old daughter memorized this book by the time she was two.  She still loves taking it out and &quot;reading&quot; it to us; the repetitive nature of the book really lends itself to very young children grasping the  plot, and the beautiful, distinctive pictures are unlike most I've seen in  children's picture-books.  They're bold, colorful, and full of simple  action.  My daughter even used the paperback of this book as a pillow for  three weeks; she refused to go to bed without it!	2000-07-17
US	51395538	R196X560L529M4	0441005926	955844518	Illegal Alien	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Excellent mix of courtroom drama with science fiction	Take one part legal thriller, one part science fiction first contact with extraterrestrials, and one part murder mystery, and you've got Robert Sawyer's &quot;Illegal Alien.&quot;  Sawyer has developed a real talent for  solid research with originality; his courtroom scenes and lawyers come  across with every bit as much impact as John Gresham (whose novels all seem  to come out of a xerox machine, more or less; fortunately, the original is  still interesting).  The alien Tosoks are unique as well.  As always,  Robert Sawyer puts it all together in a page-turning, clear prose style  Isaac Asimov would have admired.  A great read.	2000-07-16
US	51395538	R2NMLAV41ZN5YY	0064431789	137917341	Where the Wild Things Are	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One of the few perfect books ever written	Reviewing Maurice Sendak's &quot;Where the Wild Things Are&quot; is a bit like pointing at a full moon on a clear night: it's rather hard to miss.  My favorite book as a child first learning to read, &quot;Where the Wild  Things Are&quot; has recently moved into the handful of books my 3-year old  daughter wants read to her again and again (and again and again).  Max's  rebelliousness and imagination are like looking into a mirror for her: as  Max realizes what awaits him at home, I like to think she too remembers all  those times she misbehaved and got angry and then decided her parents were  okay after all.  The pictures still hold their charm after nearly four  decades; their quirkiness hasn't faded.  This book belongs in the library  of every human on the planet, regardless of age.	2000-07-16
US	51395538	R1S5GWUVIGWVAO	0061053104	387426853	The Terminal Experiment	Books	5	32	36	N	N	A classic example of philosophical science fiction	I've spent most of my life reading science fiction; I've read almost everything written before 1980, and a huge chunk of what's come since then.  What I've loved most about the genre -- after the guilty pleasures of  space opera -- is its capacity to take the unanswerable questions and try  to answer them.  Too often, the questions we want to know the answers to --  what is the meaning of life?  Why are we here?  What happens to us after we  die? -- are either unanswerable or fully realized in religion.  So, for a  science fiction writer to contemplate the nature of the soul and the  afterlife, he runs two risks: one, that he will come up with ridiculous,  unproveable answers, or two, that he will utterly infuriate one or more of  the established religions.  To Robert Sawyer's immense credit, he does  neither.  He constructs a fascinating premise: what if the soul could be  proved to exist, and be proved to be heading somewhere after death?  He  then constructs another premise: he takes the protagonist's personality,  and he makes three AI copies: one with no modifications, one that has all  the bodily references deleted, and one with all the knowledge of aging and  death deleted.  That is his main story.  The murder mystery that runs along  side this plot is interesting, but it isn't the main point.  Sawyer is  asking the most important questions a human being can ask, and he's coming  up with plausible answers.  One of the paradoxes of science fiction is that  its greatest books are religious in nature: &quot;Stranger in a Strange  Land&quot; and &quot;Dune&quot; are two excellent examples.  And while  &quot;The Terminal Experiment&quot; isn't quite up to that level (what  is?), it is a worthy younger brother to those older giants.  The clear,  lucid prose reminds me of Isaac Asimov's belief that nothing should get in  the way of the story; the characters are not eccentrics, but everyday  people, which serves Sawyer's purpose much better than coming up with  oddballs that we might remember better.  I enjoyed this book far more than  any other sf novel in years, precisely because it brought me back to why I  stayed in love with the genre after I grew up: it's the only literary form  that still provides intellectual provocation.	2000-07-16
US	51395538	R25QNA7ZSEQY4I	0345353730	2944439	Tunnel in the Sky	Books	5	38	46	N	N	My favorite Heinlein juvenile	This was the book that got me hooked on Robert Heinlein, the Grand Master of science fiction.  Unlike most young science fiction readers of the 50s, 60s, or 70s, Heinlein was not my first introduction to the field: that was  Frank Herbert's &quot;Dune.&quot;  But I read &quot;Tunnel in the Sky&quot;  one day at school (I hid it in my notebook all afternoon and read it faster  than any book I'd ever found) and within three weeks I'd read every single  one of his books.  That was the first time I'd ever done that.  And now,  twenty five years later, I teach &quot;Tunnel in the Sky&quot; to my  freshmen English class.  None of Heinlein's juveniles create a future world  so fast, or so different from our own; when Rod Walker and his class become  lost on an alien world and have to fend for themselves, my entire class  starts ripping through the pages as fast as they can.  A great read, full  of ideas and adventure.	2000-07-16
US	51395538	R3PUFFO1HO4V36	0395754100	724773106	The Complete Adventures of Curious George	Books	5	8	11	N	N	My 3-year old daughter can't sleep without Curious George!	Every night, my 3-year old daughter has to have the first Curious George story read to her.  We've read all the other ones, but the first one is her favorite.  It's gotten to the point that I've memorized all the words --  which is exactly my point: I love each and every one of them.  Curious  George is still every bit as wonderful the hundredth time through!  A minor  warning: characters in the books, including Curious George, do smoke, which  does worry the father in me just a bit.  All in all, though, it doesn't get  much better than these classics.	2000-07-16
US	51395538	R2T0BTF3BR27OK	039515023X	893847279	Curious George	Books	5	14	16	N	N	My daughter's favorite book	Curious George was one of my favorites as a child, and this book has become an obsession for my three-year old.  At a time when her own curiosity has gotten her in some deep waters (literally, on one occasion), George has helped her understand her own curiosity -- and it's helped me as  a parent remember how curious I was myself.  You can't go wrong with  Curious George!	2000-07-16
US	51395538	R31AM1BFWIN9M4	0345328116	342043542	Starman Jones	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A great read, regardless of age	Heinlein's series of juveniles has never been matched by any other series writer for teenagers, with the possible exception of J.K. Rowling's Harry Potter series, which has much the same narrative drive and interest for  both young people and adults.  &quot;Starman Jones&quot; grabs the reader  by the neck on the first page, and never lets you go.  Although the science  has become badly dated (NO science fiction writer predicted what computers  would be like by the end of the twentieth century), the situations and  surprises still ring true.  Max Jones is a great Heinlein character, full  of the grit and intelligence that so often marked his protagonists.  Yet  the character's humility and innocence also come through to the reader.  I  read this in high school, and loved it; I just reread it, and felt even  stronger about this book.  A great read.	2000-07-16
US	51395538	R34Y9A0H2A7TV4	0345330145	428889418	Puppet Masters	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A Cold War classic for all time	&quot;The Puppet Masters,&quot; in its fully restored version, is one of the best science fiction novels of the fifties.  Fast-paced, exciting, and chilling, the novel whips us through the alien infestation of Earth, while  creating a running commentary on the Cold War mentality of the fifties.   Today, it may be hard to understand why everyone was so frightened of the  Communists; what with the Soviet Union's collapse and the chumminess we  seem intent on pursuing with other so-called Communist governments.  But  reading this novel makes a reader feel the genuine terror of a species that  robs humanity of their free will and liberty, which is precisely what the  totalitarian government tried to do in the Soviet Union.  Along with George  Orwell's &quot;1984,&quot; this book needs to be read as a constant  reminder of what can be lost if we do not stand vigilant against those who  would rule us.  Heinlein, as always, drives us with his plotting and  narrative surprises; as always, when we're done with one of his works, we  have ideas buzzing around our heads for weeks and years afterwards.	2000-07-15
US	51395538	R37YOMTNXJ30KA	1556132964	967537664	Bradford's History "Of Plimoth Plantation" from the Original Manuscript	Books	5	2	6	N	N	A classic American text	The Pilgrims are vastly overrated as colonial forefathers: most of them died within weeks of stepping onto shore, and those that survived largely remained inconsequential, except for two facts.  They married into the  larger and far more successful Puritan group who arrived 10 years after  they did, and they got a better myth built around one of our national  holidays.  William Bradford's history is a charming, paranoid vision of  coming to America and trying to make it here.  The Pilgrims' history is  largely one of peaceful co-existence with the Indians, except for the year  after the first Thanksgiving, when the only Indian in sight was the one  whose head decorated the pike outside Plymouth.  A great book to debunk a  largely false national myth, the true story is far more compellingly  bittersweet, especially as Bradford tries to come to grips with the failure  of his colony.  The turkey incident alone is worth the price of the book  (trust me -- it's hysterically grotesque).	2000-07-04
US	51395538	R3M48OZEMD511X	0967987407	735384713	Robert A. Heinlein : A Reader's Companion	Books	5	56	56	N	N	The first excellent book ever written about Heinlein	Finally, somebody has written a truly useful book about that most important of American science fiction authors, Robert A. Heinlein.  In the past, sloppy criticism and the grinding of personal axes have ruined every  single attempt to produce a book discussing Heinlein's works (I have the  misfortune of having read them all).  Gifford has produced what has to be  the groundwork for all future studies of Heinlein: a basic categorization  and numbering of every single published and unpublished work in the canon,  along with the insiders' story on each entry.  Readable from cover to  cover, or as a reference work, Gifford has also performed the one  invaluable goal of every reader's companion: he's sent me back to rereading  the original works, but with fresh perspectives and insights.  A perfect  score, after twenty years of utter failures in Heinlein scholarship.   Bravo!	2000-07-04
US	51395538	R3KMYRTH8AC5B7	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Adults can be Harry Potter fanatics too!	A charming, funny work that deserves to be read by everybody (and seems to be well on the way to doing that!)  As a lifelong reader, Harry Potter's first adventure has joined a select list of my personal childhood  favorites: Charlie and the Chocolate Factory; James and the Giant Peach;  Charlotte's Web; and my all-time favorite, The Lion, the Witch and the  Wardrobe.  Even though I was 37 when I met Harry Potter, that part of my  brain that's still 10 went crazy!  Needless to say, I immediately ordered  all the sequels; there's no price too high to become a child again.	2000-07-04
US	51395538	R3SRT761F5S8N4	0674261550	224051216	Errand into the Wilderness	Books	5	23	26	N	N	An invaluable collection of essays	Perry Miller's collection of essays ranges from his stomping ground of the Puritans to Virginia and elsewhere in colonial history.  Throughout, the most blindingly brilliant American intellectual historian of the twentieth  century displays his craft.  Unlike his magisterial histories of the New  England Mind, these tend to be somewhat easier to follow, as his themes  were more compact.  If you haven't read Perry Miller, you're missing a  first-class thinker; at the least, there's no more important colonial  historian, although many are more easily accessible.	2000-07-04
US	51395538	ROB45PHAGR54Q	0674484266	897575121	The Journal of John Winthrop, 1630-1649: Abridged Edition (John Harvard Library)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A great collection, save for the word abridged	A classic American text, long out of print; if it weren't for the curse word &quot;abridged,&quot; deserving of a perfect 5.  The Puritans' first twenty-plus years are nowhere better served than in this rational, calm man  who spent the better part of his life trying to steer a course between  fanaticism and worldly involvement.  Anybody who wants to understand how  mainstream American culture began needs to acquaint themselves with this  seminal work -- if you can handle the omissions.	2000-07-04
US	51395538	R9XJRHL1B499I	089879823X	4987597	Just the Facts, Ma'am: A Writer's Guide to Investigators and Investigation Techniques (Howdunit)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	An informative, enjoyable introduction	I enjoyed the evening I spent reading this introduction to theart of investigation.  ...[I]t was a good introduction that, like anyuseful introduction, sets the stage for further reading.  Anybody who just wants to know more will enjoy it; any writer thinking about writing a murder mystery (as I was when I picked it up) will see its value.  The author obviously knows his stuff, and presents it in a clear, precise fashion that ranges from the obvious to the insightful. Definitely worth reading.  END	2000-04-21
