US	51396427	R2P0W34MVGPD9Z	0687071089	865021421	Prophets & Poets: A Companion to the Prophetic Books of the Old Testament	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Brief guide to the books of the prophets.	Emmerson has edited an interesting compilation of articles designed to enhance one's reading of the prophetic books and provide current applications for Christians. Applications are scattered throughout the book but seem a bit disjoined from the text.  About a dozen contributors attempt to guide the reader toward a better understanding of the message of each book (or prophet) but the presentation is uneven. Rogerson, for example, spends significant time sifting passages to find what represents the real prophet and what comes from later editors or the community. He still holds to the old dictum that negative (e.g. judgment oracles) represent a more original word from the prophet while positive notes (e.g. salvation oracles) are later and usually post-exilic additions. Entries by John Barton and Grace Emmerson are among the better providing more real guidance on the prophetic writings. Some of the applications are helpful, some wrong (\\"Israel\\" used for Jacob, makes three, not two, ways it is used in the OT, 52), and many are in the form of thought provoking questions.   This book, which has a greater number of typographical errors than most, would be helpful to a beginning student but other, more evenly presented works, are more helpful. <br />	2005-08-26
US	51396427	RNOJFPFOSAOP4	9652239771	714940091	Early Prophecy in Israel (Sidrat Sefarim Le-Heker Ha-Mikra Mi-Yesodo Shel S. Sh. Peri.)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Prophets with and emphasis upon history & politics.	Professor Uffenheimer has written an interesting book on pre-exilic prophecy in the Hebrew Bible that integrates a discussion of the prophets with biblical history. Actually, the book's emphasis is more upon Israel's history around the time of the prophets than the prophets as key individuals in Israel's history. His discussion of the Elijah-Elisha narratives concentrates upon political and historical backgrounds rather than the prophets or their messages. Uffenheimer also places great emphasis upon ancient Near Eastern data to determine what is historical in the narrative.<br /><br />The author accepts, but not quickly, the findings of source criticism. Frequently a detailed analysis of Wellhausen and followers is provided with Uffenheimer often holding to a historical core. The author is no stranger to form or rhetorical criticism but neither is discussed at length in the book. Even less is found concerning current social science criticism but his perspective can be gleaned from what is said about Wellhausen's school. When discussing the person of Samuel, Uffenheimer states, \\"To leap blindly into the realm of actual historical fact, using terms borrowed from abstract social theory, cannot but distort that reality,\\" (265).<br /><br />The book's concentration upon politics and history helps to place prophets in their setting and the author's rigorous discussion of source criticism make it a helpful work but less is learned about the prophets than might be expected from such a concentrated discussion of the early prophets.  I would recommend the book as supplemental reading for the prophets especially those interested in an older generation of critical discussions.	2005-08-22
US	51396427	R23K290FO0Y5SB	0801880777	334579382	Minding the Spirit: The Study of Christian Spirituality	Books	2	11	18	N	N	Spirituality from a narrow perspective.	Minding the Spirit is a collection of previously published articles that have been grouped by topic for the study of spirituality in the Christian tradition. This book is a bit of a disappointment. In general, the book is a polemic for the field of spirituality as an academic discipline especially at the graduate level. Key concerns are the definition of spirituality and the object and method of study. A few authors note Paul's use of spirit (pneuma) or spiritualities (pneumatikos) but most authors identify Christian spirituality with Christian experience. <br /> <br />The reader will quickly notice how little Scripture is used in this book. The few biblical passages cited are mostly illustrations from previous theologians (e.g. Origen, Augustine). The Scriptures are seen as the basis of Christian spirituality but most authors in this collection are quite vague about connecting spirituality and the Scriptures and some struggle with the role of the Scriptures. For example, Liebert views the psalms as a special case in the canon but the canon is a special case in Christian literature so any encountered text can become a living text, 94.  <br /> <br />The struggle to merge historical concepts (traditions) and post-modern thinking is evident throughout the book. One example would be J. Matthew Ashley's statement challenging theologians to, \\"develop the conceptual tools to manifest the truth - or perhaps better to make the truth,\\" 160. <br /> <br />This book will be of interest to those who are seeking to grasp the agenda of the post-modern university for spirituality as a discipline.  It will not be of much help for any interested in a biblical or personal understanding of Christian spirituality or even those seeking a history of the topic. Yet, students of a theological mind would all profit from the chapter (article) by Elizabeth A. Dreyer on the Holy Spirit in Augustine. Though presented as being to a wide audience the book is decidedly Catholic in perspective with Karl Rahner being the modern theologian referenced by most authors. All in all it is a disappointing work on such a great topic! <br />	2005-07-11
US	51396427	R9R1IWY8VWFLY	0800636708	421774796	Fortress Intro to Prophets	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Helpful little volume on the prophets!	Hutton has written a helpful little introduction to the prophets. He accepts the prophets as real persons even if filtered by the work of later editors. The author accepts many standard tenants of historical criticism. Such positions as the sign of Josiah (1 Kings 13) being a \\"fabricated story,\\" (34) and Isaiah's angel of the Lord an embellishment of a historical account show his anti-supernatural bias.  Hutton continues to propagate the false dichotomy between oracles of judgment as marks of a true prophet and oracles of hope as indications of later additions.  The primary message of each book rather than its structure or genre is the emphasis of the author's treatment and Hutton often provides helpful insights in his discussion. For example, his comment on Micah and preaching (verb nataf) is a nice summary. All in all the book is a nice read and would be quite helpful to any seeking an overview of the Old Testament prophetic books. It is especially recommended as a complement to some of the longer introductions.	2005-07-09
US	51396427	R26I8ONG3AUJW2	0800629485	185655041	Battered Love (Overtures to Biblical Theology)	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Strong on rhetoric weak on theology	Weems's book is a discussion of metaphorical language of sexuality and marriage in Hosea, Jeremiah, and Ezekiel using a revisionist hermeneutic.  I gave this book two stars because reading Battered Love provides a clear example of a reader response hermeneutic. It clearly illustrates recent movements from God to God-language. The book also emphasizes the need for dealing with the issue of violence toward women. I gave this book only two stars because I believe the book ultimately moves one further away from the understanding of Scripture. <br /> <br />Weems speaks often about the prophets but only really addresses the negative metaphorical language of Hosea, Jeremiah and Ezekiel. Little to nothing about family or children is found in the book as if Israel sharply dichotomized various aspects of human sexuality.  Even the three prophets are, for the author, ultimately unknowable because the literature is understood to be fictitious. But Weems, who wants to speak in terms of ideal prophets and a hypothetical audience, describes how the audience would have reacted (shock, disgust).  <br /> <br />Perhaps so, but late dating the Pentateuch allows Weems to suggest that Israel was unaccustomed to applying the sphere of sexuality to God-language, yet Israel's legal material is fraught with the language and examples of human sexuality (as with the ancient Near East). Jeremiah's language may well have shocked the audience but, in fact, their most forceful reaction came from his words about the temple. <br /> <br />Ultimately, the book is about theology and God and Weems wants to apply such God-language to her understanding and description of God. Yet, all is the product of culture and rhetoric. So there is little left for theological categories like God's revelation or the sinful nature of human beings. <br />	2005-06-02
US	51396427	R184D2GX5S8C85	0664256392	926612422	A History of Prophecy in Israel	Books	3	37	40	N	N	Update of a basic work on the Prophets	Blenkinsopp's book is a classical introduction to the prophetic books of the Old Testament. This revised and enlarged edition keeps available an important work on the prophets of the Hebrew Bible. He leans heavily upon source analysis, especially P and D/Dtr, for his understanding of the development of the prophets. For Blenkinsopp critical scholarship is \\"unanimous\\" about the late authorship and collection of Deuteronomy, 116. There is less emphasis in the book on the original prophet or logia and more on what is from the Deuteronomic editors. Blenkinsopp still sees the prophets as real historical figures although well hidden by a later developed literature.  The location of any unit as from the original prophet is then a product of scholarly argumentation. <br /> <br />The first chapter provides a brief summary of the prophet in Israel, including a brief history of criticism, analysis of terminology and the role of the prophet. Discussion is informed by recent developments in social science criticism but little emphasis is given to the ancient Near Eastern data.  The book then develops the phenomenon of prophecy with reference to historical developments in Israel. Blenkinsopp, like many modern biblical critics, is skeptical of Israel's history before the monarchy yet he sees hints of a prophetic tradition before the monarchy in narratives about people like Deborah or Miriam. The true beginning, however, is with Samuel and the rise of the monarchy as shaped by the Deuteronomists. <br /> <br />The books is quite thorough in covering each prophetic book and provides extensive bibliographies (updated a little from1983) at the beginning of each unit. The analysis of each book combines a discussion of structural units, shaped by source, genre, and redaction criticism, with significant points of the book's message.  Blenkinsopp also develops each work in relationship to the flow of Israel's prophetic movement. Though heavily dependent upon source analysis it is a must for those reading about the Old Testament prophets. <br />	2005-05-24
US	51396427	R9Y8FWQ0MM7A2	081465553X	815425621	Pre-Exilic Prophecy: Words of Warning, Dreams of Hopes, Spirituality of Pre-Exilic Prophets (Message of Biblical Spirituality)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Prophetic concepts from an older perspective.	This book is not a study of individual prophets as much as a treatment of key topics (Day of the Lord, justice, poverty, remnant, etc.) from the perspective of the pre-exilic prophetic literature. Sklba's book is well written and takes a surprising turn from time to time. At times his colorful language gets in the way, for example, what does it mean for the prophet to be \\"recreated,\\" or what is meant by the \\"prophetic dance with the Lord,\\" 58? <br /> <br />Sklba conceives the prophet in general terms but is always influenced by an older, source critical, model of scholarship.  With Wellhausen, he sees prophet and priest as a united function that later evolved into separate roles. Sklba views prophetic origins in groups or \\"roving bands,\\" characterized by strange behavior. Sklba's perspective on the prophetic literature blends the older source critical analysis with some updating from archaeological and sociological sources. Prophets are viewed as real persons but quickly recede into the background of a complex edited literature. With an older school, Skilba wants to identify the judgment speeches as more authentic prophetic material while messages of salvation are seen as later additions to counter the negative. Also added were call stories and other units observable from form criticism, like the hymns of Amos or the oracles concerning the nations by later editors, especially the Deuteronomists.  The book is enjoyable to read and recommended for students grounded in the prophets. Its older brand of critical scholarship is a real limit but its readability and arrangement around topics is a plus. Typos and even a missing footnote mar the publication.	2005-05-17
US	51396427	R1WE363GLUJ0A6	9004121609	978981947	The Elusive Prophet: The Prophet As a Historical Person, Literary Character and Anonymous Artist (Oudtestamentische Studien)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	The vanishing not elusive prophets	Collected in this volume are papers read at joint meetings on the prophet as historical person or literary character. Fourteen papers representing studies on more general aspects of prophecy in general (Fenton's Israelite Prophecy), specific books (Collins's Threading in Amos), and small units (Dijkstra on Amos 7:9-17 or Spronk on Judges 4:4-5) are collected in this volume. It is difficult to make a generalized assessment with such a diverse group of essays. In general the discussions represent recent movements away from a historical understanding of the text to the position that it is later redacted literature.  The prophets as persons are only a weak consideration in these essays.  Such persons, if historical, are well hidden behind the literature created about them. When the prophet is considered a historical figure it is mostly because of a unique feature of the text that might be explained as stemming from an original thinker, like the confessions of Jeremiah or Amos's moment of confrontation with Amaziah. Spronk's paper, for example, holds to the authentic placement of Judges 4:4-5 (describing the prophetess Deborah) but deconstructs Deborah from the named wife, judge, and prophetess to an anonymous necromancer working out of the tomb of Rebecca, Deborah's nurse. A number, but not all, support Auld's thesis that Israel's prophets were poets (not prophets) with features, like the title (nab'i) being added later. I found Fenton's article on \\"Israelite Prophecy...\\" and Dijkstra's contribution, which concentrates on Amos 7 but expands to address hermeneutical concerns, to be more informative than many of the others. I would consider this to be one of the more disappointing collections to be published in recent times. In general, the articles express the author's presuppositions more than advances on the biblical text.	2005-05-11
US	51396427	R2EICKJZ4Q0AFN	0313294976	805806018	Daily Life in Ancient Mesopotamia	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Helpful addition to general ANE studies	Daily Life in Ancient Mesopotamia is an excellent volume and highly recommended for the general audience, especially those who are interested in learning more about ancient Near Eastern backgrounds. Chapters center on major areas of life and society, for example, society, scholarship, recreation, religion, economy, and etc. Nemet-Nejat is sensitive to both the diachronic and synchronic development of topics so discussion is quite well developed in each chapter. With such an arrangement, however, there is some repetition, though minor, throughout the book. The beginning historical review is very helpful, even if most brief, and sets the stage for the development of topics in each chapter. The author's strength is in the area of mathematics and technology and they get emphasis in the book. Less discussion is found on integrated matters like environmental issues. There is a wealth of material in this book and so much is covered it is a bit encyclopedic at times but, nevertheless, well done. This book will be of interest to students of ancient history or any seeking a greater appreciation of biblical background material. There are very limited reference to the Bible and some strange. Saul's change of mind (literally heart) is take by the author as \\"he went off his rocker,\\" 81, an older and limited perspective, indeed. Karen Rhea Nemet-Nejat is conversant in many areas of ANE studies and balances her discussion with excerpts from ancient texts and relevant contemporary sources. The book would be enhanced by a better bibliography. The book is a welcome contribution to the field and will be a very informative to any who read it!	2005-05-04
US	51396427	R1K3R1KJ4UU3VY	081465147X	139555445	Love and Violence: Marriage As Metaphor for the Relationship Between Yhwh and Israel in the Prophetic Books	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Movement by metaphors	Baumann provides a concentrated study on the language of marriage in the prophets from a feminist theological perspective. A legitimate concern addressed by the book is the relationship between violence to women and the metaphorical language of the prophetic literature.  Baumann provides an in-depth discussion of the major texts dealing with marriage in the prophetic literature giving special emphasis to terminology and metaphors. Her discussion is shaped by an acceptance of a post-modern feminist hermeneutic. The emphasis is upon the final form of the text. Little, for example, is done with genre. <br /> <br />Baumann supports Ricoeur's view of metaphorical language and its potential to form a new reality. Baumann decries the use of metaphorical language to support violence to women but then seeming falls into the same trap by using metaphorical language to depreciate God. Her view is that marriage in the prophets is negative, so too the imagery, and the outcome. Baumann feels it damages humans and ultimately damages God. For a theological work, little is said about sin! The answer is not a greater understanding of God's perspective of humanity, although that is acknowledged, but a change in language and, ultimately, God.  The book will introduce many to other feminist writers but its lack of theological integration, and ultimate view of God, makes it of limited value. <br />	2005-04-27
US	51396427	R2ZT95UW83S6YH	9004111603	201560000	Prophecy in the Hebrew Bible: Selected Studies from Vetus Testamentum (BRILL'S READERS IN BIBLICAL STUDIES)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Past studies on criticism for present students.	This work collects articles that relate to the prophets and prophetic literature of the Hebrew Bible. Though published in 2000 this book represents a collection of articles previously published by Vetus Testamentum, mostly during the last quarter of the twentieth century. The oldest is 1964, the most recent 1993, while the bulk are from the 70's and 80's.  On the one hand this publication covers a broad range of topics because of the different scholarly contributors (19 articles by 18 authors). On the other hand it is limited by the date of the articles and by the nature of the scholars that contribute to VT.   <br /> <br />The book makes available key studies on the prophets in a helpful, combined format. Generally authors take an exegetical approach while examining one book, or part of a book, and springboard to discussions relevant for the prophets in general. Articles focus on the major prophets and a number of the minor prophets. <br /> <br />The greater emphasis of the book is on form criticism and redaction criticism with some awareness of rhetorical criticism. Given the dates, it is understandable that there is less emphasis upon social science criticism, although both Carroll and Parker refer to data from anthropological studies.  The greater void is any real consideration for studies that move toward the final form of the text.  Certainly the final form is in view but canon criticism (or the like) is not. Even the fruits of rhetorical criticism do not move in that direction. <br /> <br />The book is most helpful in that it gathers statements from key scholars into one place for current students of the prophets.  One is better prepared by knowing something about the development of historical criticism and key scholars than reading this book for such information. It is, rather, an illustration of their individual views.  Subjects that cross the articles are the differences between pre-classical and classical prophecy, distinguishing true from false prophecy,genre analysis and the formation of prophetic literature.  <br /> <br />The book is recommended as supportive reading in the historical critical analysis of the prophets. Recommended are the articles by Zimmerli and Gitay, and weakest, in the opinion of this reviewer, are Weinfeld, who struggles to differentiate form and function, and Haran, whose analysis is very subjective. The indexes of names and Scripture references are helpful additions.  <br />	2005-04-12
US	51396427	R3AVAZ1UN3OWRE	0788503162	13302925	Prophecy and Prophets The Diversity of Contemporary Issues in Scholarship	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Diverse and insightful statements on the prophets.	Yehoshua Gitay has edited (and written in) a neat little volume on the prophets. It contains quite diverse materials very much like the state of prophetic studies today. A discussion of the ancient Near Eastern context begins the book. It is brief, and now a little dated, but helpful and balanced. For general background on the prophets the contributions by Petersen and Freedman are the most helpful. Petersen merges his discussion on the roles of the prophets with the literature they would have produced while Freedman points out several key areas of study, include the call, true & false prophets, ethics, and intercession. His discussion is more traditional and the bibliography is quite helpful. Studies on various prophets or books (Jeremiah, Isaiah, and Joel) take different tracks but engage modern developments in areas of final form or rhetorical criticism. Clements discussion of Weber is more on Clements's position than Weber's charismatic leader and the book rounds out with an essay on artistic presentations of the prophet and his message, with included photos. <br /> <br />The book is a little dated but it is an excellent volume and recommended for students of the prophets of the Hebrew Bible. Little engagement with the growing area of social science criticism will be found but it provides informative materials and key areas of emphasis.   <br />	2005-03-23
US	51396427	R24YRZV4JPFCHO	0827229577	435577111	The Prophetic Books and Their Theological Witness	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Hermeneutics and the prophetic literature	This is a work on the formation of the books of the prophets as understood from Steck's hermeneutic and illustrated mostly from the book of Isaiah. <br /> <br />Steck carefully argues for how exegesis should proceed with the prophetic books of the Hebrew Bible.  Steck's argument is to approach the books as a whole rather than dividing them into units for analysis. He objects to the more traditional process of initially dividing the text into small units for analysis. He argues that approaching the books as a whole is necessary to the process of exegesis. From the whole one sees the big picture from the last accepted hand. One examines the whole (even in association with its neighbors in the canon) to find clues (signals) about the overall construction of the book through time.  Exegesis, then, moves back to individual units from an understanding of the whole but forward from the units to integrate the whole.   <br /> <br />The strength of Steck's work is his emphasis upon taking prophetic books as a whole. Steck embraces the tools of historical criticism to find marks of later tradents but understands their reworking of the text as part of the interpretive process that produced the whole book.  He accepts a real prophet behind the book, as a speaker, but as a vague entity.  At best, one can possibly find the \\"personal profile of the prophet providing the name or, if necessary, even to anonymous prophets integrated into the book,\\" 112.  Steck also examines how his model of exegesis works out to inform the theological process today.  Steck accepts the limits of the canon but never really explains why the process of an authoritative rereading ceased. The canon is seen as a later \\"boundary,\\" \\"limit,\\" or \\"restriction,\\" in the history of tradition suggesting that we learn more from the prophets's method than their message. Not recommended for the uninitiated, the verbosity of the style will make this a difficult read for many though Steck repeats his arguments and makes helpful summaries throughout the	2005-03-18
US	51396427	R2W7A0V7DLUX49	0800618149	649499555	Prophecy and Society in Ancient Israel	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Important reading for prophets and current criticism.	The paper back edition of Wilson's book makes a classic available to current students of the Old Testament prophets. Wilson brought increased attention to the school of social-science criticism with the publication of this volume.  He applied the findings of modern anthropology, along with suggestions for a methodology, to the study of the Old Testament prophets. After a brief review of key contributions prior to his own work, Wilson suggests some guidelines for applying the results of current anthropological research to the study of the prophets. He examines some material on intermediation from modern (20th century) studies and then looks back at the ancient Near Eastern data in light of his conclusions. The remainder of the book studies the OT prophets in light of Wilson's conclusions from the anthropological data.  The prophet's position as central or peripheral to their society is examined as well as the audience and prophet's function.  Wilson sees a strong dichotomy between northern traditions (the Ephraimite tradition) and the southern Judah tradition as the basis of his work. <br /> <br />His work provides a penetrating review of the prophets of the Northern Kingdom and, although Wilson sees much in light of his own methodology, he raises some helpful questions, especially about how prophets reacted to their audience.  His results, which often rest on less firm evidence, are then confirmed in light of his anthropological model. While Wilson's study is now dated (1980) it is still a valuable book for the study of prophecy and an important link in the development of the application of social-science criticism to the prophets. <br />	2005-02-07
US	51396427	R2VZDAV845P9N5	1850758050	988765915	Introduction to the Prophetic Literature (The Biblical Seminar, 49)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Questions better than answers!	Even though Rofe's book is not intended to be an introduction to the prophets or even Old Testament prophecy he does provide considerable data about the prophets of Israel. He deals with the terms, functions, and roles of prophets as part of his discussion.  Primarily his focus is upon the development of the literature of the later official (classical) prophets when, according to the author, oracles first began to be written down. Rofe attempts to bridge the gap between the writings of the prophets and modern readers, although there is less on issues of hermeneutic than one would expect. <br /> <br />The author believes it is possible to discover some of the original messages of the prophets but emphasizes multiple stages of development and uses historical critical methods to separate earlier layers from later layers. The beginning of his book is devoted to illustrating how different stages can be identified and how different strands were later expanded and even joined together. His analysis succeeds at pointing out key issues in the quest for the formation of this unique body of literature but is ultimately limited by the author's emphasis on redaction criticism. <br /> <br />Rofe believes that one can find (almost prove) evidence of development by later disciples of the prophets and the communities that followed.   He frequently plays one prophet against another by noting continuity and discontinuity to uncover various stages of redaction.  His attention to basic hermeneutics is helpful (isolation of units, genre, formula, etc.) but overshadowed by his own emphasis upon identifying strata.  So confident is Rofe that he can suggest a disciple of Ezekiel may be the same editor that reworked the beginning of the book of Hosea! (p. 32).  The author solves some difficulties by holding that later writers did not understand earlier material so introduced discontinuity into the text (p. 47).  Tendency to lean on the argument from silence, even eliminating contrary evidence (Isaiah never refers to Patriarchal traditions so 11:10-16 and 29:22 are eliminated as later additions), and to depend upon older critical methods make this work of limited value for students of the Old Testament prophets. <br />	2005-01-15
US	51396427	R1C7A4F5ARJPR5	1565634179	584525999	Social World of the Hebrew Prophets	Books	3	10	10	N	N	So much more can be said!	Matthews's book is primarily a discussion of the historical times of the biblical prophets.  Unlike similar books, Matthews begins with a brief but interesting outline of historical geography, which surprisingly is not integrated into the book. After a summary of the nature of Hebrew prophets the rest of the book moves through the canon from Moses to the post-exilic period.  The book includes brief highlights of key topics and a glossary of key terms highlighted in the text. Both are great ideas but neither are strong features. Often the accentuated topics are no more than a list of related verses on the same issue or a parallel from ancient Near Eastern literature while glossary definitions are so brief they appear disconnected from the text. <br /> <br />Less emphasis upon the social world is found than expected by the title. The book provides a discussion of the basic message and the historical situation of each prophet with some emphasis upon well-known social concerns (justice) but far less on topics like international tensions, class struggles, or economic backgrounds. <br /> <br />One strength of Matthews is his handling of symbolism, which comes out in his discussion of Isaiah's Song of the Vineyard, (84-88), the symbolic use of clothing (93), and the city gate, (120). But over all, the book provides neither a strong discussion of the prophets nor their social setting. <br />	2005-01-04
US	51396427	R1UO4SJEFRRK0N	0664254535	726659291	The Prophetic Literature: An Introduction	Books	4	25	26	N	N	An emphasis upon genre in the prophets	Petersen has written an interesting guide to the prophetic literature of the Hebrew Bible. The emphasis of this work, as the title clearly indicates, is on literature rather than the prophets themselves.  A general overview of each prophetic book is provided but the author's major focus is upon literary units.  With an emphasis on literature comes a de-emphasis on the author. Petersen's stress is upon genre, especially prose versus poetry. Literary analysis is used to determine suggestions about setting (e.g. laments), authorship, and message. <br /> <br />The author mentions key findings from critical schools in his discussion of each biblical book. The weight is given to form criticism followed by redaction criticism, tradition history and social-science criticism, all methodologies that result in the segmentation of the text. Though quite conversant with rhetorical features of the text the author places much less emphasis upon methods that often promote a greater textual unity like rhetorical criticism or canon criticism. For Petersen the focus of each book (Zion in Isaiah, lament in Jeremiah; glory in Ezekiel and the Day of the Lord as an emphasis in The Book of the Twelve) helps with the analysis of smaller units in a text that developed over time. <br /> <br />I recommend this book for any serious student of the prophets.  It provides insight into current scholarly concerns about the growth of the Old Testament literature. The strength of the book is its focus on various genres in the prophets while much less will be gleaned about the prophets themselves. Petersen is very conversant with current scholarly trends and provides helpful summaries along the way. <br />	2004-12-27
US	51396427	RVJMC06PF2E0V	0830814175	236401609	The Last Things: Resurrection, Judgment, Glory (Christian Foundations, 7)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	The Last Volume is on the Last Things.	This is another great contribution to Bloesch's theology of Word and Spirit. It is his last volume but certainly not his best. Divergent traditions are assessed for contributions they make and errors they espouse relating to the end times. The author surfaces some controversial areas at the beginning of the book, moves on to a discussion of supernatural powers (demons, angels), and then analyzes eschatological events like the day of the Lord, millennial views, (the rapture is rejected by Bloesch) and the resurrection. Many in the evangelical camp will be disappointed by Bloesch's emphasis upon the communion of saints, including the benefits of mutual communication by prayer, and the possibility of salvation after death.  While not a Universalist, the author moves close to Barth and emphasized the ultimate triumph of God's grace beyond the grave. At times the book reads more like a polemic for his position on these areas than a theological discussion flavoring also the chapters on the Interim State and the Triumph of Grace.   <br />Bloesch's binary perspective and explanation of issues continues in this volume. Familiarity with a multiplicity of traditions and scholars is a strength of Bloesch's work and this volume is no exception. Current trends including Open Theism are addressed and Bloesch is not afraid to state his own views clearly; points that make this book worth the read. In the end, Bloesch is strongest in matters Christological rather than eschatological.   <br />	2004-12-20
US	51396427	R2EX8ZLW7YV029	0827208170	418168318	Eighth Century Prophets: A Social Analysis	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A window into the eighth century prophets.	DN Premnath has collected and isolated a significant amount of material relating to eighth century Israel and the prophets assigned to that period by modern scholarship.  <br /> <br />Premnath's book is divided into two main sections. He begins with a discussion of the social and economic climate of Israel leading up to and including the eight century B.C.  The focus of the first part (chapters 1-3) is upon the land of Israel.  Included is a discussion of land ownership, political control, and economic production, most of which is centered in land ownership and land productivity.  The second part of the book is an analysis of specific passages from the eighth century prophets (Amos, Hosea, Isaiah, and Micah).  Short passages are discussed for their contribution to the topic of land development, ownership, and control.  Premnath accentuates the tension that grew between the rich and the poor during this time.  Some repetition occurs with the first section to the degree that it participates in the broader discussion of the first section. <br /> <br />The author's analysis is interesting, helpful at times, but narrowly focused and shaped by sociological perspectives.  While influenced by minimalists like R. B. Coote his own study emphasizes a fair amount of the historical perspective from the eighth century prophets. Where comparative material from archaeology is found the book resembles the work of Philip King's on Amos, Hosea, and Micah.  <br /> <br />Premnath's penchant for assuming context that favors his position shows in his comments on various passages. For example, the audience of Amos 4:1-3 is the women of Samaria, who Premnath assumes to be wives of the court officials that are then identified as \\"wealthy large estate owners, and merchants,\\" 141.  For a book subtitled a \\"Social Analysis,\\" there is need for more balance of discussion about society as a whole. The tension stresses is between the royal, upper class, landed elite and the peasant poor.  Passages that shift some of the responsibility to the people are not included in this study (Hosea 4; Amos 3:1-8; 7:8).  Even the basic assumption that one can separate such a social analysis from the religious side of life in ancient Israel is presumtive. <br /> <br />Yet, even with  the need for a more thorough discussion of context the book collects a significant amount of data from the history of ancient Israel and from the eighth century prophets. Though not an introduction to the prophets the book is recommended for students of the prophets that want a concentrated look at one aspect of the challenges offered by these prophets to their people. <br />	2004-12-02
US	51396427	R2MVOEZSQ42NDZ	9042908653	654803060	Jeremiah in Prophetic Tradition An Examination of the Book of Jeremiah in the Light of Israel's Prophetic Traditions (Contributions to Biblical Exegesis & Theology)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great challenge to accepted positions on Jeremiah	This recent offering on Jeremiah challenges some accepted positions about the role and development of Old Testament prophetic books, especially the book of Jeremiah.<br />Lalleman - de Winkel begins with an assessment of scholarly positions about Jeremiah, especially criteria for determining authentic Jeremianic material and the composition of the book. For example, previous criteria of prose versus poetry (or genre) to determine authentic passages in Jeremiah are shown to be inadequate.   The author especially challenges the commonly held position the Jeremiah was heavily influenced by the Deuteromonistic School.<br />Instead the author seeks for a tradition that is common to earlier prophets and Jeremiah that would explain any continuity with earlier prophets (Hosea and Amos) as well as the book of Deuteronomy.  Most helpful are the significant differences between these writings and Jeremiah as pointed out by the author.  <br />The author examines the messages of Hosea and Amos in relationship to their circumstances.  Integral to these prophets are messages of repentance and hope and the new covenant, a tradition that can be seen in Jeremiah without assuming Deuteronomistic influences.<br />Especially helpful is the discussion on prophets as intercessors. Lalleman - de Winkel examines intercession in the larger OT context (but not ancient Near Eastern) as well as in the prophets under discussion. Conclusions on Jeremiah as intercessor are balanced and insightful. <br />Perhaps the greatest contribution of this book is the author's willingness to challenge some age-old assumptions about the relationship of Deuteronomy and the Deuteronomist history to a prophetic work like Jeremiah.  This study shows just how tenuous some of the arguments really are. <br />The author treats the book of Jeremiah in a new a refreshing way.  The book is written for one who is engaged in the study of the prophets, specifically Jeremiah, at a significant level and not for the beginner.Most of the quotations (and there are many) from non-English sources (e.g. German, French) are not translated.  I would recommend this for serious students of Jeremiah but any that are interested in studying the prophets would benefit from reading Lalleman	2004-01-27
US	51396427	RVZPIT8HAVD0U	0875525555	991814407	The Prophet and His Message: Reading Old Testament Prophecy Today	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Very basic introduction to the OT prophets	Williams has written a basic introductory book on the Old Testament prophets and works from the Old Testament towards the New Testament where he finds the fulfillment of the prophetic office in Jesus Christ and then applies the prophetic heritage to the church today.  The book is easily read and very basic in the material it covers.  Williams's bibliography and footnotes include recent materials but his discussions are a bit dated. He works with older controversies (e.g. the tension between prophet and priest or ecstasy) and does not effectively deal with more recent areas of tension (e.g. ancient Near Eastern materials or unfulfilled prophecy).  His emphasis is upon typology, which he carries through to current application in the church.  Williams has created categories for his discussion (verbal, behavioral, affective) that are used through the book.  Given his categories and emphasis upon an allegorical interpretation the discussion become a bit artificial. The book is best used as an introduction for any that are very new to the Old Testament prophets.	2003-12-30
US	51396427	R13EKJUPSVM7WG	0827214391	123149337	Hope Amid the Ruins: The Ethics of Israel's Prophets	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Selective reading of prophetic ethics.	Dempsey looks at some prophetic passages using a liberationist critical hermeneutic. The book begins with a brief but interesting assessment of recent scholarly discussions of ethics in the Old Testament. Dempsey then sets the next stage for the book by discussing creation, covenant, and Torah; all with an emphasis upon relationship as she heads toward embracing a biocentric ethic for humanity. Her focus is selective so the element of blessing is ignored in the discussion of the Abrahamic covenant. The book deals with many short sections from the classical prophets of the Hebrew Bible as Dempsey questions the ethics of the prophets and drives a wedge between the OT prophets (entire Bible) and modern ethics.  In the end, Dempsey seems to be searching not only for new metahpors for God but a new God.	2003-12-22
US	51396427	R320ULWU85WKD3	0830814167	785105427	The Church: Sacraments, Worship, Ministry, Mission (Christian Foundations)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Bloesch adds another volume: The Church	Another challenging addition to Bloesch's growing work on the theology of Word and Spirit is his recent volume on the Church.  The volume addresses many of the traditional areas of ecclesiology including the meaning, scope, authority, and composition of the church.  But Bloesch is also exercised about current issues facing the church and critiques areas such as open theism, the concerns of feminists, and the dearth of theology in the modern church. His critique of contemporary worship is surprising and insightful.  As with previous volumes Bloesch's ability to incorporate material from a wide range of sources and traditions makes the book an interesting and challenging read. <BR>The volume leans more on historical theology and less on biblical and exegetical theology. At times the author appears to overstate his case (women could, on occasion, inherit property) to make his point.  Throughout the work, Bloesch is clear on the importance of the gospel message and the claims of Christ but looks for ways to stretch the boundaries between very diverse groups in the Christian tradition.  His assessment of 19th and 20th century movements and trends provides helpful background for the calls he issues to the present generation church.  While I do not identify with many positions of the author I heartily recommend this book for those seeking information on the many and diverse issues facing the church today.	2002-12-30
US	51396427	R192HLAJ19XK4X	0811726711	343736670	Amusement Parks of Pennsylvania	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Fun reading and focus on PA!	Great new book on amusement parks of PA. This book show the  interest in amusement parks and rides that has been growing ever since the 90's.  There is a nice balance between the history of the parks and current conditions.  In one book the reader learns a wealth of material about past and now defunct parks (where is the mention of the park that used to be in Mt. Gretna - carousel and all??) as well as information on parks that are up and running. Good summary of each park as well as current information on admission, directions, etc.  I was disappointed that there was little emphasis on memorabilia or good trivia. The old photos/postcards really help.  That would really help this work out.  What about all those great tokens.  Even Leap the Dips put our a coaster token to push the coaster.  The book is a good read and recommended for the enthusiast.	2002-08-31
US	51396427	R1CPD58RL4VC9B	1565630513	72811566	An Old Testament Theology of the Spirit of God	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Tracking the Holy Spirit through the Old Testament	Hildebrandt's book on the Holy Spirit in the Old Testament is a needed work for today.  It gives a biblical approach to the study of the Holy Spirit and is informative and well organized.  The author tracks the use of the term &quot;spirit&quot; (ru'ah) through various OT groups (leaders, prophets) and moves through the OT chronologically although he is more synchronic than diachronic in his approach.  I found it to be very helpful as it stays close to the text even though Hildebradt is no stranger to alternate views.  I recommend the book to any who would like a balanced, biblical approach to the study of the Spirit in the OT.	2002-01-01
US	51396427	R2450NQV6IKI1G	0830814159	787081469	The Holy Spirit: Works & Gifts (Christian Foundations)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	History and Gifts of the Spirit	Another volume has been added to Donald Bloesch's growing Systematic Theology.  As the title indicates this work presents Bloesch's view of the Spirit and, for those who have read his works, emphasizes his reformed position.  Bloesch continues to show his ability at understanding many viewpoints from numerous positions within the Christian tradition.  He is extremely well read and touches base with main stream, obscure and abherrant views.  This work is up to date and will be a &quot;must read&quot; for students of the Bible and theology.  However, this book is not up to par with the earlier in his series (search Amazon: Christian Foundations) since there is a great emphasis upon historical theology and a focus, almost an attraction, to the gifts of the Spirit.  True, this is an area of needed discussion today but missing is a discussion on the role of the Spirit in prayer, meditation or the interpretation of Scripture, a large gap for this work.  It is a great book, characteristically Bloesch and will be helpful to many, so recommended.	2001-02-11
US	51396427	R3JCYZEXSC8EFI	0195112806	395632433	Deuteronomy and the Hermeneutics of Legal Innovation	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Trends in OT legal studies.	Levinson's book is an attempted illustration of how earlier textual material has been changed by the author's of Deuteronomy to support the centralization of Israel's religion in Jerusalem.  His study examines  admittedly difficult passages in Deuteronomy to show how various phrases  were used to support this change in Israel's religion and society.   According to Levinson, earlier materials (individual phrases) were  reworked, at times producing a sense just opposite of the original  intention, in support of the authors' program.  This close examination of  the biblical text illustrates the hermeneutics employed by the authors of  Deuteronomy to achieve their goal for the purpose of exposing the motives  behind inner-biblical exegesis.  Levinson writes well and argues his case  clearly.  The book illustrates how the older tenants of source criticism  have not changed, just shifted.  Doublets and conflicts in various stratum  are key tools for observing stages of textual growth.  In support of recent  scholarship Moses becomes but the voice of the redactor and Passover is  completely disassociated from the Exodus while the author's of Josianic  Deuteronomy are credited with centralizing Israel's religion.  This book is  a must read for students of OT legal materials and will be of interested  for all those in OT studies as an illustration of a current approach to the  difficulties of the biblical text.	2000-06-06
US	51396427	RJJOMACVNLJ7O	0664240771	313570717	Amos, Hosea, Micah: An Archaelogical Commentary	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Great combination of Bible and Archaeology	This little volume is quite a helpful survey of the findings of archaeology which relate to these eight century prophets of Israel.  King combines his understanding of archaeology with a sensitivity to the  biblical narrative to provide the reader with helpful background  information for understanding these books.  In general, the reader will  learn a great deal of Old Testament times from reading this book.  Just a  little out of date now but a book worth reading.	1999-09-08
US	51396427	R23CWA67TQD345	0415110327	156169675	Early Mesopotamia: Society and Economy at the Dawn of History	Books	5	49	50	N	N	A 'must' for all serious students of ancient Mesopotamia.	Postgate has written an extremely helpful volume for students of ancient Near Eastern history and culture.  It is a scholarly work yet quite readable.  His emphasis upon geographical and environmental factors is refreshing and fills a needed gap at this level. Brief citations from contemporanious texts provide helpful illustrations along the way.  Always conservative in his own estimation, Postgate provides a variety of alternative solutions to problems and questions raised by the evidence.  He does not hesitate, however, to challenge prevailing views where the evidence suggests an alternative like the central role of the temple vs. the palace in this ancient economic setting.  The book opens with a historical survey and moves on to provide an understanding of early Mesopotamian society up to the Old Babylonian period.  This is a very fine volume.	1998-02-16
US	51396427	R2REQ90DCL8AIS	0801021375	937228857	Ancient Egypt and the Old Testament	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Currid provides a balanced discussion of a challenging topic	This book is a fine appraisal of current trends, difficulties and issues relating to the two topics.  Currid brings balance to the extremeists on both sides:  those who would reject any historical data in the Bible and those who see Egyptian customs in every page of the Old Testament.  Discussion concentrates on material from the Pentateuch and History books but includes brief chapters on the Wisdom lit. and prophecy.  The book is up to date and recommended to any interested in learning more about OT customs and its environment.	1997-12-27
