US	51392802	R1M3B3TL375NKI	1400062500	585019467	The Egyptologist: A Novel	Books	3	417	480	N	Y	Eh- Overrated.	Negative reviews usually get dinged in the \\"helpfulness' department. I'll risk it anyway...At the very least I hope to be helpful even if you still want to read it- I'd at least like to adjust your expectations so you aren't as disappointed as I was/am. <br /> <br />I read the review for this in People magazine- I love books set among the pyramids, and the mystery/plot sounded intriguing. The review was really a rave, and seemed to imply that there might be some sort of a twist at the end... <br /> <br />Eh. There is. Well, there's supposed to be. But you figure it out pretty early on. An earlier reviewer here was generous and said you figure it out 1/2 through... but I don't think it takes that long. The book has a \\"get on w/ it\\" feel to it b/c you have it all figured out (even if you weren't really trying).  <br /> <br />I don't think the intention is for you to figure it out. Instead, I think the dramatic tension is supposed to stem from the idea that you aren't (supposed to be) sure what happened to the missing (assumed murdered) people. But you are. So you are sorta bored.  <br /> <br />This is a side note, but there isn't a single likable character in the entire story. This doesn't necessarily kill a story, but w/ a relatively nonmysterious mystery, little depth of Egypt in the 20s, and unlikable people... there's not much to root for. I had to force myself to finish it to see if I was missing something.  <br /> <br />I wasn't. <br /> <br />If you want mysteries w/ some pretty good details of Egyptology, the Amelia Peabody series is amusing. It's certainly not high art (more light reading), but more interesting than this book.	2004-09-28
US	51392802	R1KXGU2UD7D9AU	0821222554	202104482	The Kings and Queens of England	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	Tiny, Inaccurate, but still can be helpful...	My boyfriend and I bought this book in the British Museum bookstore so we could keep the monarchs straight. For that purpose it is perfect. Each page is about the size of two credit cards, and each monarch gets two pages each- one page for a picture of him/her, and one page for a biography. The brevity of the biography obviously leads to inaccuracies in the interest of cramming it all into a single tiny page. In other words, I don't recommend using it to study for a history test, but if you want to put it in your backpack as you are touring London so you can say &quot;Oookay, now Henry the VI was a [crummy] and weak king&quot; as you stand over his tomb in St. George at Windsor and &quot;Henry VII killed Richard the III, that bad guy from Shakespeare&quot; as you stand next to Henry's tomb in Westminster Abby, it is absolutely perfect for that purpose. However, if you want a more thorough review (and loads of pictures, but less backpack friendly) of each monarch, I very much recommend Antonio Fraser's &quot;The Lives of the Kings and Queens of England.&quot;	2004-02-27
US	51392802	R2ZUJW0KDL77PH	0471417424	47506526	The Do It Yourself Lobotomy: Open Your Mind to Greater Creative Thinking	Books	1	68	74	N	Y	Not nearly as impressed w/the author as he is w/himself	Okay- I realize that negative reviews tend to get &quot;No, this review didn't help me&quot; votes, but seriously - if I can stop ONE person from wasting their money &amp; time, I've gotta brave it.<br />I'm a big fan of the ADWEEK books... but this one...<br />First- the author spends the first 40+ pages telling you about the &quot;impressive&quot; (his word) list of companies he's worked with and how brilliant and successful he is and the importance of this topic. He even says that the reason his techniques (and they are NOT his alone- but more on that in a second) are so successful is b/c of the names he's given them (he's even got little &quot;TM&quot;s next to some of them)- Anyway- did you get that- it's not the ideas! It's the NAMES! Now that is a creative argument. <br />He also wastes a PROFOUND amount of time telling you about the domain of creativity. I know that should be an important topic- but how many times and ways do I have to hear that talent (say, ability to draw) is not the same thing as creativity. He even puts in a picture his dad painted and bashes it as talented (accurate rendering) but not creative (painted from another painting). He also spends a frightening amount of time telling you how his ideas will help you. It should have taken maybe 5 pages- he took 69.  You spend nearly 70 pages feeling like you are reading an infomercial for his seminars. A personal pet peeve of mine are these little Rolodex-looking cards he has printed throughout that are written by companies talking about how helpful his seminars and ideas were to developing ideas. If they were case studies, this might have been helpful- instead it's more &quot;Gosh- his seminar/technique sure did help us, and we are selling more t-shirts than ever!&quot; Again, I only learned how important and significant this Monahan guy is.<br />Now- the tools he uses... it's not that his tools are useless- it's that there are so FEW of them and there is not one single thing he discusses in his book that isn't covered in Thinkertoys (and some are even in Hey Whipple Squeeze This). Not only that, but they are covered in more depth in Thinkertoys, with better and more thorough examples, and there are more ideas overall in that book (there are only 7 here-there are TONS in Thinkertoys). <br />Honestly- I could bash this book all day- let me just PLEASE save you some time and energy- get Thinkertoys (and if you are really specifically interested in the creative process in advertising- Hey Whipple) and SAVE YOUR TIME. You will not miss SQUAT.	2003-08-06
US	51392802	R3RZC2K4N1RKOE	0071362932	501349202	Brand Warfare: 10 Rules for Building the Killer Brand	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Review from my students	I assigned this book in my Marketing Management class and my students indicated that they got a lot out of it and enjoyed reading it (unlike other books they read for class, thus giving their comments on this book some validity). They had kind and even enthusiastic comments for it on the end-of-year evaluation, and one student even said that it was his favorite part of the class (which I'm trying not to take personally).<br />In the interest of full disclosure, I only assigned approximately 80% of the book.  We discussed the book in class and I gave them discussion questions so they knew what they were looking for as they read. I tied it in with theory/etc. in my class, and I used it more for his case studies and examples.  Plus, he's a bit of a smart ... which entertained them, I think.<br />I realize an earlier student reviewer (not in my class) did not care for the book, but that's one student (who can't spell \\"ecstatic\\") and it's pretty hard to get everybody to like one thing, anyway (as evidenced by half-pepperoni/half-mushroom pizzas).	2003-01-09
US	51392802	R1A1CPTZM8NYYH	0786862181	452570984	Surrendering to Marriage: Husbands, Wives, and Other Imperfections	Books	4	104	107	N	Y	Pick your battles	This is a book that appeared on Oprah, and to a certain extent the message of this book is similar to that of another Oprah-lyte, Dr. Phil, who says &quot;Would you rather be right than happy?&quot;<br />Krasnow is not arguing that you surrender to your husband or make yourself subserviant.  Krasnow simply recognizes that people are imperfect, and that a marriage is simply a pair of two imperfect people.  My take-away from from her stories is basically that people in marriages need to answer the question: What mountain do you want to die on?  If your husband doesn't fold the clothes like you asked him to, is that worth making your life miserable? Is it worth letting that problem snowball into larger problems, like beliefs that he doesn't respect you or your needs?  Is it worth letting unfolded laundry and uncapped toothpaste lead ultimately to divorce? <br />The best story in the book is Krasnow's own: she is leaving to go to the store, and asks her husband to do a few chores while she is gone. On her way back from the store, she works herself up into a fury, knowing he hasn't done the chores. When she gets home, she sees the chores were started, but stopped, and can't find her family. She finds her husband and four boys in the playroom making a tower out of ALL the Lego blocks.  She notes she had two choices: Be ticked that he didn't do what she expected, or be grateful that he was such a good father. She chose the grateful option, and went and folded his clothes- a chore she hated to do because she thought she was teaching her sons that &quot;wives fold the laundry.&quot;<br />The primary basis for her argument is that perfection is problematic.  First, high expectations cause problems because they can never be met- and we bemoan our fate when we are dissatisfied because those expectations weren't met.  Second, YOU aren't perfect, and if you leave a marriage, you will still have problems in your next marriage because you brought you with you.<br />There are some topics that will make your eyes widen into saucers. The discussion of people who are serial adulterers and whose spouses stick with them springs to mind. But again- it really is a question of what mountain you want to die on- and those wives decided not to die on Adultery Mountain. Krasnow even seems amazed and somewhat shocked by a woman who can stick with a man like that (I didn't really get, as another reviewer did, that it was an *endorsement* of lying and cheating- it was just an example of how some people are willing to hang in there through the worst).  <br />The book is sort of a &quot;one note&quot; topic, basically arguing the same thing over and over again.  It is a quick read, but the theme is constant throughout- it's probably better in the long run to stick with your husband (esp. if you have children)- and to just change your expectations and see him for who he is and what he does bring you.  Stop being so bloody angry that he isn't living up to your expectations, and see the truth and benefit in him and his contribution to your marriage.  It's not supposed to be marriage bible and I don't think Krasnow's intention is to get you to adopt everything in it.  It's just a perspective on marriage that's worthy of consideration.  I'm getting married in 6 months, and I'm very glad I read this book- and I think I'll have fewer Mountains of Death from now on.	2001-06-14
US	51392802	R3T0O8UG3L3GZX	0060184973	20324026	Elizabeth: The Struggle for the Throne	Books	3	67	72	N	N	Good and Bad points	I very much admire Mr. Starkey's purpose in writing this book. He makes the case in the beginning of the book that much ado is made of Elizabeth's Gloriana years- the near-stereotypic years of Elizabeth in white face and  huge ruff, draped and dripping in pearls. However, not as much information has been provided concerning her early development as a child, and really, as a human being. This exploration of the psychological development and its influence on later life does seem to be the new popular wave in biographies- &quot;The People You Thought You Knew,&quot; and all that. I was very excited by the prospect of the additional detail and attention paid to this more-neglected period in Elizabeth's life.<br />Did he succeed- Well, yes. Sort of. If you've never read anything about Elizabeth, I can't say I really recommend this book as a starter- I think I'd start with another book- perhaps the books by Alison Weir?  Her book on the children of Henry VIII covers much the same ground and other detail as this one, and she has another book focusing on the totality of Elizabeth's life.  These may be a better initial orientation.  <br />However, if you are familiar with Elizabeth's life- there is some new and interesting discussion in here- learning more about when famous paintings were painted, the history of clothing in those paintings, dispelling myths (or at least making an argument for dispelling them), and the re-interpretation of communications (Eg: When Elizabethe complains of being ill-used by her family, she probably didn't mean &quot;family&quot; in the modern sense of biological family (i.e., the Queen Mary), but instead the 1500's meaning of family, which referred to the staff and help who lived with her.)<br />There is some frustration in the support of assertions in the book. For example, Starkey will be making a point about a speech, discussing how important it is, or that it really set the stage for X to happen- and then- nothing, or perhaps very little information about the text of this important speech. I'd flip back and forth thinking maybe I missed it, but, alas...  Perhaps I'm too used to sound-bites- this is possible. But frequently I was left with an impression of the importance of an event, without a good feel for the content.<br />The biggest problem with this book is the writing. For starters, the editing  could be better- for example, on p. 218 the word &quot;enjoy&quot; is used instead of &quot;envoy,&quot; unless &quot;enjoy&quot; is some British word for &quot;diplomat&quot; that I'm not familiar with (as a side note- we all make mistakes, but that's what editors are FOR if you have one!). More disturbing- the sentences are SO choppy, and it does interrupt the flow of the read. (p. 279, &quot;Elizabeth and Cecil found themselves in a mess. And they had only themselves to blame.  For they had hopelessly underestimated the effectiveness of the lords' resistance.&quot;)<br />Bottom line: if you've never read a book on Elizabeth, there are better places to start. This work really focuses on the first 25 years or so of her life.  If you have read books on Elizabeth, this is a relatively quick read and makes some interesting arguments.  But get ready. To read somewhat choppy sentences. Assuming that doesn't bother you.  It's worth reading.  But I want to set your expectations.	2001-04-18
US	51392802	RVFK1U4EPUU9A	1572242132	810033842	The Conscious Bride: Women Unveil Their True Feelings about Getting Hitched (Women Talk About)	Books	4	86	88	N	N	Emotional preparation for the wedding	While these 6 inch thick bridal magazines have ideas on wedding gowns, honeymoon locales, and bridesmaid dresses, this book is wonderful for the emotional changes that will take place as you prepare for your wedding.  For me the single most valuable aspect of this book is that it is *validating*- that I'm not the only one who has experienced lows during this &quot;happiest&quot; time in my life. Through the use of other brides' experiences and quotes, this book validates the losses (e.g., place of Dad in your life), the fear of changes (loss of name, loss of single independence), the disappointments (the ring, the proposal, the absence of deceased loved ones), and generally the feeling of being overwhelmed by the giant Wedding Creature that seems to overtake your life. I didn't really get &quot;advice&quot; per se out of this book- mostly just the feeling that I'm not alone and weird if I experience a negative emotion as a I plan and anticipate my wedding.  I don't really need advice- I just wanted to hear I wasn't alone.<br />As other reviewers have pointed out, the author does talk about losing one's &quot;maidenhead&quot; and the author does have a tendency to relate things to mythology.  While another reviewer had a problem with the maidenhead section- I really didn't.  For example, the author relates part of &quot;maidenhead&quot; to the loss (or potential loss) of one's maiden name.  I'm an older (31) professional (Ph.D.) bride, and I've struggled with the loss of my maiden name and my identity (and whether I want to lose my name at all). The author even indicates that older brides may have bigger problem giving up a name that they've had, identified with, and used professionally for so long.  She also discussed the loss of life as a single woman, which is a huge deal the longer you are one.<br />In short: I personally don't believe that this book is limited to younger brides.  I've got my own house and live in a different time zone from my parents, but I am still experiencing some of these issues discussed in the book.  But all you've got are two different opinions from two different Amazon reviewers that you don't know from sticks on the ground.<br />The use of mythology didn't do much for me, but perhaps others might relate to it as a way of making one of the author's points more clear.<br />Did I relate to absolutely *everything* in the book?  Of course not- but could I expect to? (For example, my mom has been wonderful and very unpushy- so the parts dealing with pushy moms aren't really my deal). Overall, I highly recommend this book. And look: Given all the ridiculous amounts of money brides spend on those big fat bridal magazines that have all the same advertisements in them- just put down one of them, get this book, and see if it does anything for you.still experiencing some of these issues discussed in the book.  But all you've got are two different opinions from two different Amazon reviewers that you don't know from sticks on the ground.<br />The use of mythology didn't do much for me, but perhaps others might relate to it as a way of making one of the author's points more clear.<br />Did I relate to absolutely *everything* in the book?  Of course not- but could I expect to? (For example, my mom has been wonderful and very unpushy- so the parts dealing with pushy moms aren't really my deal). Overall, I highly recommend this book. And look: Given all the ridiculous amounts of money brides spend on those big fat bridal magazines that have all the same advertisements in them- just put down one of them, get this book, and see if it does anything for you.	2001-02-28
US	51392802	R1VTN4DHDIQ4XC	0060192984	125703216	The Perfect Wedding Reception: Stylish Ideas For Every Season	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Great ideas and details for across the seasons!	I wanted to get some sort of book for ideas because all that the brick-thick bridal magazines do is show you wedding gown after wedding gown with the occasional bridesmaids gown thrown in for variety. I wanted ideas for place settings, place cards, flower arrangements, cakes, favors, and even menus and was getting frustrated.<br />When I ordered this book, I was a little concerned because it is advertised as a reception for each of the four seasons. I'm having a winter wedding, so I was thinking &quot;Oh Great- I'm only going to be able to use a fourth of this book.&quot;  I was WRONG!  Generally speaking this book manages to give you ideas for how to give your wedding (or any formal event) the *feel* of the season, but also gives you detailed ideas that may generalize throughout the year.  For example:  The spring bouquet with some modification would be beautiful for my December bouquet.  <br />In addition to the seasonal advice, there are sections called &quot;Fine points&quot; dealing with general details such as &quot;confections&quot; (desserts), table accents (for formal, semi-formal and informal occasions), flowers, etc.  The ideas that seem to be lacking in the literally foot-tall stack of bridal magazines are here in this book.<br />Yes, some of the ideas in the book are sorta pricey, but some are less pricey and very do-it-yourself (e.g. Juniper shrubs in galvanized tin buckets, covering the topsoil with moss and tying a silver mesh ribbon around the trunk- VERY cute, and highly do-able).<br />I highly recommend this book!  I do wish there were a book for each of the seasons, but until then, don't be afraid of this one!	2001-02-22
US	51392802	R1JBK64XA1N75R	0767902483	619241029	The Knot Guide to Wedding Vows and Traditions: Readings, Rituals, Music, Dances, and Toasts	Books	5	102	104	N	Y	COMPLETE guide to the wedding words and substance	My fiance and I wanted to write our own vows, pick somewhat original music, have some good toasts, get some good quotes, etc. We stood in the bookstore one day PLOWING through book after book on toasts, another stack of books on vows, another stack of books on quotes, yet another stack of books on music recommendations...<br />And then I ordered this book- Thank goodness, because it is covers the gamut.  I had bought several love poetry books in search of the right words, but this is really the best collection for weddings specifically (many of those love books had &quot;lost love&quot; themes like that &quot;Lost Lenore&quot; poem by E.A. Poe- a little depressing for a wedding.)   The quotes are fantastic, the toasts are short and sweet and the vows range from religious, to romantic, to personal.  And if you don't like anything that's in the book, they tell you how to write your own toasts, construct your own vows, and find your own quotes.<br />The book has the feel of a workbook that accompanies a text book in college, with places for notes throughout, and a price that wouldn't make you uncomfortable to scrawl in the book or fold some corners to mark pages.  <br />I highly recommend STARTING with this book. If it doesn't completely fill your needs, you may want to get another one, but at least you won't screw up and spend all kinds of money on all kinds of books first.  This books will fill many of your needs off the bat.	2001-02-22
US	51392802	R3OILSJYQ8FJ90	0670892424	780619582	After Life	Books	4	48	53	N	Y	A twist to the mystery tale	This book is about a woman, Naomi Ash, who happened to start life in New Orleans, but her mother, a spiritualist, moves them up to Train Line, NY, a  home to a community of spiritualists.  And ten years ago, Naomi killed her  boyfriend.  The day before Labor Day, a construction crew found him.<br />I  ordered this book after I read a review of it in the local paper that  included the first line of the book, &quot;First I had to get his body into  the boat.&quot;  I thought, &quot;That's it- I've gotta get this  book.&quot;  I'm not a big mystery reader kinda person, but this was  obviously a psychological mystery- Whose body?  Why a boat?  Did YOU kill  him?  How'd he die?  You slowly learn all the answers to those questions,  with the &quot;WHY did he die?&quot; question being answered last.  I can't  really recall ever reading a book with this approach and it very much  intrigued me.  <br />The title &quot;After Life&quot; is really great-  Naomi  can truly (or maybe truly- she doesn't ever seem to be totally confident)  see the spirits of those who have passed on, and even the spirit belonging  to the body headed to the boat eventually comes to her.  She is dealing  with Life After death and not just any death- the death of her boyfriend, a  death that we suspect she is responsible for, and she is coping with the  responsibility and fear that is associated with the potential of his being  discovered (and then, maybe, HER being discovered for his death) and it is  a very interesting struggle. <br />Ellis' ways of describing the world around  you is also unique-  The mother of the main character Naomi says, &quot;Two  people never love each other at the same time.  One loves, and the other is  in love with being loved. The fun is in guessing which one's you.&quot;  Or  another example- Naomi's first experience with snow, described as follows:  &quot;The air smelled different, like water in a tin bucket, and crows  flapped in circles over our heads.  When I spoke, my voice fell straight  out of my mouth, completely swallowed up by snow.&quot;<br />The community of  spiritualists is unique, but to me they just seemed like any small town  with their own culture and rhythms- only instead of being poultry farmers  (like my hometown), they happen to speak to the dead.  This is not a  criticism- I liked the fact that these people were so real and not  romanticized and so matter-of-fact.<br />The reason for the death at first was  (to me) a little disappointing- I thought, &quot;that's IT? &quot; However,  the more I think about it, the more I get WHY that's what HAD to happen,  and frankly, it just makes Naomi more and more realistic and  understandable, and the more of a message there is in the book- again,  particularly with regard to the title.  You keep seeing how something like  that COULD happen.<br />This is a good book, but it is not a beach book- you  will get into it and really think about what you are reading(although I  guess you could fly through it, but I think you'd maybe miss the thoughts  that it provokes).  If you want to read a book to vege out to and be  brainless, this ain't it.  I definitely recommend this book for it's unique  approach to language and to a mystery plot.	2000-08-29
US	51392802	R1K17B7DDKS8II	0767905172	310021894	Jemima J: A Novel	Books	3	90	108	N	Y	Worth a read, but confused in its message	I'm assuming that this book is supposed to be something of a fairy tale- Sort of Cinderella Meets Slim Fast.  The point of view even changes  throughout the book, from Jemima's &quot;I's&quot;, to a third person who  comments, narrarates, passes judgement, and hints at the future.  <br />I  found this book to be contradictory or even hypocritical, and I don't know  if there is supposed to be meaning in this.  Jemima is hugely overweight  and desperately wants to be thin.  Ironically, all the attractive and thin  people she knows are horrid, but the story doesn't seem to recognize this  situation. Her best bud Geraldine is put forth as shallow and  &quot;selfish&quot; and is only somewhat redeemed by her friendship with  the fat girl.  Her roommates are what are commonly known as &quot;hootchie  mamas,&quot; and the highly attractive woman in a bar who hits on Ben  (Jemima's crush) is basically a loose woman herself.  If the purpose of  this book is that we shouldn't judge a book by its cover (a theme blatantly  discussed), then it's a bit contradictory to make the fat woman the  sympathetic character and all the attractive people snotty losers.  It's  just reverse discrimination.  The other problem is that Jemima may be fat,  but she has a beautiful face. Soo, does this mean that if you are fat with  an *ugly* face, you are a lost cause...?<br />The other problem with this book  is (as discussed in other reviews) the obsession with exercise and  restriction of food intake.  The extreme efforts she goes to to get thin  aren't resolved in a satisfactory way to demonstrate that one doesn't have  to be extreme in being skinny in order to love oneself- there's just a  little epilogue that cleans it all up in one page and it was a little  dissatisfactory.  I was irritated that the great conquest in Jemima's life  was getting Mr. Wonderful and NOT accepting herself as evidenced by the  fact that the book peaks with Mr. Wonderful falling in love with her (now  that she's THIN), and not with any sort of internal growth and acceptance  of herself and her issues.  She doesn't even realize that the grass isn't  as green on the other side.  It's just frustrating.  I wanted the dramatic  external change to be reflected by an internal.  I read carefully, looking  for this message, and if it is in there, I missed it.<br />I wouldn't be so  harsh on the plot and message, but the pseudo-narrarator keeps making a big  deal about how Jemima is a role model and we should strive to be like her,  particularly towards the end- Yeah, I don't think so, particularly with the  foolish things she does with regard to men (oh my).  I do appreciate the  fact that she is healthier and at least not eating 2 bacon sandwiches as a  snack and she is working out instead of getting winded from climbing  stairs.  <br />It's worth a read, it's got a couple of giggles in it and it's  a fast read.  Maybe wait till paperback, though, because this book doesn't  have the Grand Message it seems to want to have.	2000-08-08
US	51392802	R1YAUGTJIFUEX8	0684869020	250808166	The Wall Street Journal Guide to Understanding Money and Investing	Books	4	113	117	N	N	A great &quot;dictionary&quot; to investing	I had finally gotten out of credit card debt, and now that I had money to invest, I hit Amazon and looked for books to guide me in this task. I  purchased this book (and two &quot;For Dummies&quot; books- to investing  and mutual funds).  I tell you this because if you are looking at this book  for the same reason, I hope I can help.<br />All the other reviews are right:  it is thorough, consise, clear, friendly, colorful and explains  &quot;money.&quot;  The subject matter of this book is identical to the  Money and Banking class I had to take in undergrad (and have long since  forgotten, but it looks familiar).<br />What I wanted was a book that was  more advice-oriented.  While this book will NOT really fulfill this  purpose, it does make for a fantastic dictionary- For example, if you are  sitting there and the person on CNNfn tells you &quot;something&quot; about  bonds, you can flip to the bonds section, and translate it for yourself.  You can open up the stock pages and understand what all those mini numbers  mean. They explain the basics of mutual funds.  For these purposes, this  book is truly excellent. Heck- it's more than a dictionary, it's one of  those Foreign Language to English dictionaries- translating non-English  words for you.<br />So, if you want *advice* for investing- this ain't the  book. But if you need a quick, clear and handy (it's a skinny book- a  little bigger than a folded map) way to understand what's going on in  Moneyland, this is great.	2000-08-04
US	51392802	RL1FDENDNAYU8	0451409256	208908626	Making Minty Malone	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Entertaining with a Novel Message	I'm currently plowing through the Thirty-Year Old Woman's reading list (Getting Over It, Welcome to My Planet, Otherwise Engaged, Lucy Sullivan is Getting Married, etc.).  If you like those books or those kinds of books,  this one is definitely worth checking out.  It's less, ummm,  &quot;literary&quot; than books such as &quot;Otherwise Engaged&quot; or  &quot;Welcome&quot; nor as it as quick a read as those two books. It's not  as much of a cartoon as Bridget.  It's really more like Lucy Sullivan, but  I liked this book MUCH more.  It is a book with a sense of humor, but not a  laugh-out-loud book.  <br />What I like so much about this book is that you  can't help but wonder if Isabel Wolff is watching Oprah when Dr. Phil comes  on (Does Oprah even come on in London?).  Dr. Phil preaches that &quot;We  teach people how to treat us,&quot; and that there are no victims.  And  THAT is the message of this book.  You'll read in the other reviews that  this is a story about a woman who got jilted at the altar.  Yep- sure did.   And it is a story about her recovering from this- but it's MORE than that.  It's about her having to realize that SHE could have prevented the jilting,  and that getting jilted was not the worst thing in the world (The 28,000  pounds spent on the wedding, notwithstanding). She has to realize that she  was too nice and too much of a doormat and that the fault is not all his,  nor is it all hers.  <br />This seems to me to be a new sort of theme for  these kinds of books. This genre of books tend to be more about &quot;Oh  poor me- Bad men treat me wrong and I need to find a good man.&quot; Minty  Malone is more about learning the lesson of, &quot;I *chose* the bad men  who treated me wrong and that's my fault.  I need to value myself  more.&quot;  It's a subtle but important difference.  I really liked that  message.  Along these same lines, it's about realizing that the negative  things that happen to you in your life may actually be positive. Ivery  much like Wolff's philosophy and attitude towards life.<br />My only  complaints about this book are as follows:  First, Minty is SUPER wimpy at  the beginning, but I expect that's necessary to show her growth. In other  words, it's not really a fault with the book- I just don't think that  early-book Minty and I would have been friends.  The same goes for the  roommate/cousin Amber- She's SO bossy- I wanted to squash her.<br />Second,  Minty and her roommate/cousin Amber take a trip which is extremely  distracting. It's is an element of the plot, but there are extremely  distracting elements to it.  It's almost like Wolff took a trip there  herself and just HAD to write about it.  <br />Other than that, I really  recommend it- I expected a superficial, cute romance novel, but there was  slightly more depth to it than that, which I very much appreciated.  Don't  get me wrong- it ain't a work of Shakespeare- but it is definitely  worthwhile reading.	2000-08-01
US	51392802	RZHZICFF9V1IX	0452281636	68466902	Ralph's Party:  A Novel	Books	3	14	18	N	Y	Cute first novel	For some reason I feel badly knocking this book because it is her first novel and she did write it because her friends encouraged her to follow her dream.  For a first novel, it ain't bad.  It doesn't have the same depth as  the Shannon Olsen/Suzanne Finnamore/Anne Maxted novels of the world, but  then I don't think it's supposed to (although that was my impression when I  ordered it).   It's a cute little tale about 6 twenty-something people in  London who live in the same building whose lives only finally all intersect  at the very end.  It's sorta like Melrose place but with only one bad  person (okay, maybe two), and not six.  It's a quick read, there are some  funny lines, and there are some cute little romances.  One of my biggest  irritations in novels is characters who do stupid things for no apparent  reason and there is a little of that in this book, but I tend to attribute  that more to Jewell's early development as a writer more than to anything  else.  It is a cute little story, I did enjoy it, but it's sorta  intellectual cotton candy, if that makes sense- is great going down, but  not terribly filling (but that's okay- cotton candy is still popular).  I  do think Jewell has great potential, and this really is a great first  start. Keep it up!	2000-07-18
US	51392802	R19LSZICUJ4BNG	0375406522	312828157	Otherwise Engaged : a Novel	Books	5	22	24	N	Y	Funny because it's honest and thoughtful (not crazy)	As I write this review, 186 other people have reviewed this thing- so the question is: What incremental contribution can I make over and above the other 186 people who've had something to say about this book.  Well, I'll  try and be helpful by summarizing what everyone else has said, dispel some  myths, and help set expectations:<br /> I avoided reading this book because  based on what reviews I had read, I was afraid it was this &quot;madcap  romp through the bridal world&quot;- I was scared it was going to be  Bridget Jones Gets Married.  I like Bridget, but &quot;being engaged&quot;  and weddings are already superficial enough in this culture without the  added bonus of slapstick.  <br />This book is honest, genuine and really has  very little to do with ordering flowers (don't even think i saw the word  &quot;florist,&quot; actually) or invitations (she does talk about  addressing them and picking them out, but it's fairly quick).  It's more  about a person going through a transition in life and coping with the fears  associated with those changes than it is about being engaged.  I found it  to be very similar to &quot;Welcome to My Planet&quot; by Shannon Olsen-  Eve (from this book) and Shannon (from &quot;Welcome...&quot;) both are  transitioning and having to grow up and realize that they have to stop  looking backward and give up certain things in order to gain certain  things.  I'm not engaged and never have been married, and I still very much  related to that kind of emotional growth.<br />I also liked the fact that  she's not a screw up at work- It seems a lot of these 30-year-old-woman  books (Lucy Sullivan, Welcome to my Planet, Getting over it) are about a  woman who's a mess at work and in her personal life-  This woman is  successful at work (six figures no less), and I could really relate to her  a lot more- I'm a little maxed out on screwups.  <br />It is a fairly quick  read but- I've read other reviews that said it's a superficial book. They  are reading it too fast, which isn't necessarily wrong- it's just that they  are sorta being like those dogs who gulp their food down without tasting  it.  <br />This book is hilarious. Partly because of its honesty, but also  because of some one-liners.  For example, she's discussing the fact that  Michael (her fiance, obviously) has been married before and discussing her  feelings about being a  second wife:<br />&quot;First wife, second wife.  I  will always be second. Even if his first wife dies, I don't move up the  ladder. It's not like being an understudy.  It's so much more complicated.  Second. It's so Nancy Kerrigan.&quot;<br />So far, I think this is one of the  better of this 30-year-old-woman books, for what it's worth.  Thanks  Suzanne- Do we get a book on the next stage of life too?	2000-07-13
US	51392802	R2LFYTQVVC714A	0138948585	639140673	Multivariate Data Analysis (5th Edition)	Books	5	65	67	N	N	A GREAT reference	I took multivariate in Ph.D. school.  Our professor didn't have a book (just his notes), so I had no book to be loyal to when I got out.  I was given this book once I graduated and consider it to be a fabulous  reference.  I can't speak to *learning* multivariate techniques out of it  because that's not been my experience with this book. <br />I use it as a  reference- to refresh myself on a technique, or to consult when I run into  a problem- this book has yet to let me down and has been able to answer any  question or solve any problem that I've had.  <br />You see this book cited in  academic behavioral research, but the book does a great job of explaining  things in a managerial way as well.  <br />Other of these reviews have  criticized it for going on too long on an example or a technique- for that  I PRAISE this book- I WANT that extra information. I'm reminded of that  quote from &quot;Amadeus&quot;-  &quot;Too many notes.&quot;  I WANT as  many notes as I can get- that's what makes it so much more helpful.  <br />If  you are looking for a great reference book for multivariate techniques,  look no further.	2000-07-04
US	51392802	R27MQGBJ09Z650	0060393203	956920947	Getting Over It: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	You can definitely relate (and laugh)	Helen Bradshaw is like your best friend who is going through a lot of crap, making some bad decisions, and you can't help her because she won't  listen- she just has to &quot;get over it&quot; herself.  She's a jerk to  her roomate (okay, he deserved it, but still...), it's so obvious to all  that love her that she is not coping with her dad's death at all, and she  keeps making tremendously stupid mistakes (mostly through poor  communication and bad assumptions) with Mr. Potentially Right.  However,  she does work very hard to get on with her life- I was proud of her.  You  should know that this book is sad in parts- it is not a laugh a minute, but  I liked that- it was more genunine and relatable that way.<br />Maxted is very  funny and with a great knack for universal truths presented with a huge  sense of humor- For example, &quot;[In college], the majority of students  were present to extend their sex education, so if you wanted action you  could usually find it.  Jabba the Hutt would have scored. Indeed, I kissed  him myself on several occasions.&quot;  I'm glad I wasn't the only one.<br />I  read this book right after &quot;Welcome to My Planet&quot;- This book is  very similar (there are even characters named &quot;Flo&quot; in each- go  figure). This book is not as big an exaggerration as Bridget, but if you  like Bridget-esque things, you'll definitely like this book.<br />As a side  note- I'd really like a book about a 30 year old woman who is NOT working  some menial job and does NOT have an apartment that is a COMPLETE mess.   The rest of her life can still be a disaster- that's the part we all relate  to.	2000-07-04
US	51392802	R1SSZJ0D55XWAW	1858941067	498400934	The Tower of London: Official Illustrated History	Books	5	61	61	N	Y	Fabulous detailed  and illustrated history of The Tower	I bought another book by Parnell about the Tower (The Tower of Londong Past &amp; Present) that basically consisted of the past 150 years of photographs of the Tower.  I was a little disappointed by that book because  I wanted juicy history.  As a result, I was a little hesitant to order this  book without really knowing anything.  <br />Let me tell you- this book is  FABULOUS.  It is a thorough history of the Tower chock-full of photographs  of the Tower and its archaelogical finds, paintings representing the  history of the Tower, diagrams, writings, you name it. There's even a  picture of the head of Simon of Sudbury.  <br />The book is broken down into  two parts. The first part is &quot;The Tower in the Middle Ages&quot; which  is largely architectural information about the start and development of the  castles, covering the years AD 43 to 1485.  Of course, the architectural  info only makes sense in light of the political and social realities that  dictated the Tower's structure, and there is plenty of that info as well.    <br />The second section continues telling the story of the physical history  of the Tower, but talks more about its functions (royal lodgings, arsenal,  prison, etc.).  &quot;The Tower and its Institutions&quot; covers the years  1485 through 2000 and really covers the role of the Tower in the history of  England.  <br />The history provided about the Tower is incredibly thorough  and detailed.  If you are planning a trip to England, I highly recommend  reading this book before you meander through the Tower- it will really let  you know what you are seeing so you could appreciate it better.   If you've  read a lot of British history and just want to see the places where some of  that history took place, you'll really appreciate this book.  I'm so  excited about this book I can't stand it.<br />A small caveat- this is a  history of the Tower, and not a story about the history of England that  took place in the Tower. For example, this bookdoes not discuss the fact  that Henry the VI was likely killed in the Wakefield Tower in the Tower of  London, even though there is a picture of the oratory where tradition says  his murder occured (at least, if it's in there, I missed it).<br />But this is  a small complaint- there is plenty of information about the beginnings,  growth, development, political role, and all kinds of other good stuff.   I've looked a while for a good book on the Tower and so far this is the  best one!	2000-06-28
US	51392802	RUCC1HS55QCYX	0670892084	884489587	Welcome to My Planet	Books	5	27	31	N	Y	A realistic, relatable, and funny character	The reviews I had read of this book, both in People magazine, here on Amazon, and elsewhere had led me to believe that this book was a laugh a  minute- sorta like Bridget Jones. Well, it is, but it isn't. The Bridget  Jones books are cartoons, really- exaggerations of life.  <br />This book is  really more realistic and less extreme. Shannon (the main character here)  doesn't obsesses and worry about her body every second, but those worries  about her thighs and breasts do exist and are a part of her character.   <br />She is 30, she is single, hates her job, dates a loser who treats her  like crap and tries to have sex with her while she's asleep, her younger  sister does get married out from under her, she is depressed, she does love  Target (I hear ya, sister)- but those are the superficial elements of the  story. <br />The way I see it, this story is best exemplified by this: her mom  is sick, and needs surgery.  Her mom says to Shannon, &quot;Sickness is a  part of life.  I look at this as an adventure, an opportunity to  learn.&quot; And Shannon replies, &quot;I hate learning.  I wish we could  all be dumb and happy.&quot;  Really, this book is about Shannon's  recognition that you can't just stay dumb and happy- that you have to learn  and stop making the same mistakes with men and career because otherwise,  you'll have the same unhappiness over and over again. <br />This book is about  growing up and realizing that life isn't fair, and people aren't fair, and  you have to quit expecting fairness and trying to control things that you  have no control over.  And it's about recognizing how you got those  expectations.  Her mom (Flo), asks Shannon, &quot;Did your father and I do  this to you?  Is it something we didn't do?&quot;   And Shannon replies,  &quot;Women's magazines did this to me. Watching Love Boat did this.  I did  this to myself.&quot;<br />I really liked this book- it's quiet and normal-  Bridget is chaotic and drunk and smoking and I laughed my way all the way  through Bridget. But I could relate to Shannon because she was real, in a  way very much like the character in The Girl's Guide to Hunting and Fishing  (except not placed in ubiquitous New York).  <br />This does NOT mean that  this book isn't funny- it's hilarious. Shannon's sense of humor is  extremely dry, and she is really a great writer.  I can't wait for her next  book.<br />I really see this book and &quot;Getting Over It&quot; as sort of  the next evolution in what could best be described as the Single/30  literature.	2000-06-27
US	51392802	RXUNKTA1X4DL6	0140268626	410417072	The Log: A Dwarfer's Guide to Everything	Books	2	13	16	N	Y	I can't believe I'm gonna say this, but....	This book was.... disappointing. I know I'm disagreeing with everybody else, but hang in here with me.  I love British humor.  I'm a huge Douglas Adams fan.  Craig Charles cracks me up- aside from Red Dwarf episodes, I've got Smeg Ups, Smeg Outs, and I even watch Robot Wars.  I love Red Dwarf.   But this, sir, has NOTHING to do with Red Dwarf.<br />The associations between  this book and Red Dwarf are as follows.  It was written by the guy who  plays Lister.  There are pictures of Craig Charles in his Listerwear  throughout the book.  The set up of the book is that if he was the last  person on earth (like Lister), here's a little information that some other  civilization should have about humans, as well as some best guesses as to  what's going to happen.  And he refers to Danny John Jules when he's  discussing cats. THAT'S it.  If you are interested in this book because you  feel compelled (as I did) to own all things Dwarf- don't bother.  This is  essentially Dwarf-free.<br />The other problem is that, well, it's not that  good (or original).  I've probably seen at least a quarter of this material  already- as some sort of forward in my email inbox.  For example, there's a  whole section called &quot;What the Human Race is All About&quot;- and it's  the Darwin awards (he doesn't call it that, but that's what it is)- and all  the stories from the Darwin awards are in here- The guy who strapped a  rocket to his car and splattered himself into a mountain, the whole family  that drowned trying to save a chicken who survives... they're all here.    <br />I can't tell you how heartbroken I was when I read this book and had to  admit to myself that it stank (generally- there were some funny bits- but  overall- stinkaroo).  But I spent [that kind of money]...  and I was all excited, and well,... it was Dwarf-free and not that great.   Charles is clearly a funny guy with a great sense of humor, and I'm still  gonna get his biography, but this... well, if you see it at auction [for way less money]... go ahead and get it and leave it on the back of  your john to read periodically.	2000-06-16
US	51392802	R1S7AH2XQN8EM2	014027166X	210313938	Riven Rock	Books	3	30	37	N	Y	He can write, but....	I saw TC Boyle discussing Riven Rock on A&amp;E on a Sundaymorning and it seemed fascinating, so I hopped on Amazon that day andordered it.  I've read several novels based on historical facts, so I seen elsewhere the struggle that novelists who write this type of novel are faced with- How do you tell the &quot;truth&quot; without frustrating or boring people if the truth is, in fact, frustrating or boring.  <br />Unfortunately, I was both frustrated and bored with this book.  This is my first TC Boyle book and the man can write.  I could smell Stanley's rotten teeth and I could see him scrubbing his toes. I also really shared (as best I could) Stanley's fear and disorientation at becoming like his mentally ill sister.  This is probably part of the problem.<br />The story is about a guy with rich and mean parents who meets a girl who, despite the fact that he is CLEARLY becoming more and more mentally ill, marries him anyway.  And this is no ordinary woman. This is the first female graduate of MIT, in the physical sciences, no less.  This is a woman with a scientific and practical mind.  Unfortunately, Boyle is saddled with the task of explaining sympathetically why this woman- despite all evidence suggesting she should borrow Julia Robert's running shoes from that flick last year and RUN LIKE HELL- doesn't.  I just didn't buy it.  I had assumed that Stanley didn't display evidence of mental illness until after they were married- but oh no. She had every opportunity to make like a tree.  <br />Also- Stanley's mom is made out to be this evil villain b/c she tried to keep Katherine and Stanley from getting married, and then when it dawns on Katherine that she's married a (and I mean this in the nicest way possible) a wacko, Stanely's mom is portrayed as supersized evil because she tells Katherine basically, &quot;you've made your bed- now lie in it.&quot; Apparently I'm supersized evil as well, because that's what I was thinking.  <br />I think Katherine is supposed tobe perceived as this determined admirable creature.  Maybe I've watched too much Oprah, but she just didn't quite have enough sense of self-preservation.  I was irritated with her- but I think it's because Boyle is such an incredible writer that she did feel like a true person, worthy of being irritated with.<br />And the whole story is static ... Aside from this external status quo, there is no internal development- obviously Stan hasn't really grown as a person, so you look towards Katherine- and she just becomes political and gets a girlfriend.  I kept hoping something would happen ...P>The problem is that Boyle could elegantly and perfectly describe the most foul smell thing in the world- the question is- do you want to smell it?<br />As a side note- I did a little research about the characters.  Stanely and Katherine are real people, but the nurse Eddie is a fictious character based on Stanley's nurse, but his name wasn't Eddie, and I don't think he was quite the slime Eddie is.  I think Boyle simply introduced him so *somebody* would do *something* and Boyle wouldn't be restrained by facts.	2000-06-16
US	51392802	R2O0Y4XDJYVWY2	0385471904	203862461	Faith and Treason: The Story of the Gunpowder Plot	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Detailed and with a great perspective	My review of this book consists of three major elements:<br />First, the story and the history is much more interesting than I had anticipated.  I've been sort of &quot;grazing&quot; British history and got this book  because it certainly qualified.  As Fraser notes, Bonfire night isn't much  in the U.S. having been usurped by Halloween and Thanksgiving, and I'd only  vaguely heard of Guy Fawkes. The &quot;true&quot; story isn't as simple and  uninteresting as &quot;Disgruntled Guy Fawkes tries to blow up Parliament  and gets caught,&quot; as per some popular stories.  I've read a lot about  Henry VIII and this story very much complements his story- Henry separates  the English church from the one in Rome, setting off a chain of events that  lasted for years (even to this day)- This book is about one of those  events.  If you are at all interested in following the consequences of  actions through history, you'll like this.  <br />Which leads to my second  point- Fraser does a wonderful job of putting the story in perspective.   Not only does she inform you as to the history, culture, sociology (role of  women in particular) and the religious environment that led to the plot to  blow up James I, his heirs, and Parliament (and likely some innocent  pigeons), but she also indicates how the plot still affects current  thinking and events (citing such examples as Nelson Mandela).  <br />Finally,  she does a great job with the story itself.  Given the large cast of  characters, the fact that I said &quot;Wait, who is that again?&quot; only  a few times is very much to her credit.  The story is very thorough with  numerous citations and explanations of her interpretations of historical  actions.<br />This book is about the gunpowder plot and not generally about  James I- it is more about the effect that his broken promises had on the  plot's development.<br />As a side note- if Mel Gibson ever read this book,  he'd make a movie out of it- I just can't figure out who he'd play... Not  Guy Fawkes.  Maybe Garnet?  Maybe Cecil (but only if Gibson made him a  complete good guy).  Maybe Catesby (but have to make him a good guy, and  change the story a bit...)	2000-06-14
US	51392802	RGBP16RZM4SX6	0821222554	202104482	The Kings and Queens of England	Books	3	42	43	N	Y	Tiny, inaccurate, but still has its place	My boyfriend and I bought this book in the British Museum bookstore so we could keep the monarchs straight.  For that purpose it is perfect.  Each page is about the size of two credit cards, and each monarch gets two pages each- one page for a picture of him/her, and one page for a biography.  The brevity of the biography obviously leads to inaccuracies in the interest of cramming it all into a single tiny page.  In other words, I don't recommend using it to study for a history test, but if you want to put it in your backpack as you are touring London so you can say &quot;Oookay, now Henry the VI was a [crummy] and weak king&quot; as you stand over his tomb in St.  George at Windsor and &quot;Henry VII killed Richard the III, that bad guy from Shakespeare&quot; as you stand next to Henry's tomb in Westminster Abby, it is absolutely perfect for that purpose.  However, if you want a more thorough review (and loads of pictures, but less backpack friendly) of each monarch, I very much recommend Antonio Fraser's &quot;The Lives of the Kings and Queens of England.&quot;	2000-06-14
US	51392802	RH3G35KZVBN6O	0345391780	608322438	The Princes in the Tower	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	Interesting and Classic Weir	If you don't know anything about Richard III and the kids in the Tower, this is a nice, entertaining orientation (even if others argue that it's inaccurate) that is an extremely quick read (particularly compared to Weir's &quot;Wars of the Roses,&quot; the reading time of which may be measured in ice ages). I cannot judge the accuracy or inaccuracy of her arguments or evidence because this is the first book I read. That said, I very much liked the book, was glad I read it, and am more motivated to read other books on the subject (ones they may be more pro-Richard even).	2000-06-14
US	51392802	R8N4WUML928V6	0312155859	309178067	Mary Queen of Scotland and The Isles: A Novel	Books	3	12	20	N	Y	You'll only read the first two sections	Basically, Mary's life breaks down into three sections- her life as a child (spent mostly in France), her life as a young Queen in Scotland, and then her life in exile and imprisoned in the Tower of London.  I plodded  through the childhood part, *loved* and flew through the adventurous middle  part, and then just gave up on the (boring) part in London.  It isn't that  it's too long- I read George's Henry VIII and was *very* sad when it was  finished because his story was brilliant and entertaining.  I realize that  George is trying to make entertaining an extended stay in the Tower, but,  well, good luck.  The middle part is fascinating and is well worth it- just  set your expectations because the tires come off the thing in part three.   My 3 star rating above is really an average of a 5 star rating for the  middle section, and a lower star rating for the later part (the first part  is probably a 3-star-er.)	2000-05-29
US	51392802	R2E8KCUKDGTHAO	0345404335	46057174	The Wars of the Roses	Books	3	144	157	N	Y	Extremely thorough (which is good and bad)	In terms of her attention to detail, the author has clearly done a thorough job.  However, I've read much (if not all) of Weir's work (concerning Eleanor of of Aquitaine, Princes in Tower, wives and kids of  Henry the VIII, and Elizabeth I), and I had to *push* myself through this  one.  I don't know how much of this is her fault, and how much of it is the  fault of the Yorkists who were slow in finally eliminating Henry VI as a  challenge to the throne- at one point I thought &quot;I'm gonna kill Henry  myself if nobody else does soon.&quot; <br />It is a taxing read and while I  really enjoyed the other books, this one was more frustrating.  The  reversals of fortune were particularly frustrating- for example on one  page, Jaspar Tudor has the title to Pembroke, which is stripped from him,  given to somebody else who is called Pembroke repeatedly but then is killed  about two pages later and the name of Pembroke is given back to Jaspar  Tudor.  So on one page, the name Pembroke is for the House of Lancaster,  but then any reference to &quot;Pembroke&quot; means the guy is for the  house of York, and then when it switches back to Jaspar, Pembroke is  pro-Lancaster again-- So at some point you think to yourself, &quot;Wait,  why is Pembroke for Edward- I thought he liked Henry... Oh yeah...&quot;  One wonders why (for the sake of clarity)- Jaspar Tudor just can't be  called Jaspar Tudor throughout.  She is accurate, but at some point I wish  clarity had become a priority.  While this is a complaint that I and others  have had about all of Weir's (and other historians' books), it's  particularly troublesome here because of the vast number of people  involved, as well as the number of years that it covers.<br />If you are  interested in the wars of the roses or the succession of the British  monarchy, please, by all means get this book.  My primary purpose in this  recommendation is to set your expectations- I'm very glad I read the thing-  I just wish I'd known whata task it would be.  Reading this book is like  going to the gym- I don't actually like doing it, but I like having done  it.	2000-05-21
US	51392802	R31C9PZHSBPID4	0750917636	219408247	The Tower of London (Britain in Old Photographs)	Books	4	29	29	N	Y	Good but narrowly focused	I was a little disappointed in this book mostly because I didn't read the description carefully enough.  A book that shows the history of the Tower of London in photographs can really only show, say, the last 150 years of changes.  Given the thousand years of Tower history, the information this  book provides is from a somewhat narrow time frame.  I recommend it as long  as you know what you are getting into because the changes to the Tower  really are fascinating- but if you want to &quot;experience&quot; the eras  of Anne Boelyn or the Princes in the Tower, look elsewhere.	2000-05-01
US	51392802	R24NKGB4YW9HPI	0792274288	213049885	The National Geographic Traveler: London	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A good supplement	My boyfriend and I went to London and took this book and a Fodors and found that *between them* we had the perfect travel guide.  The National Geographic guide had better maps, beautiful pictures, and more detailed information, but about fewer things.  It also doesn't have exact prices and  instead it has a certain number of dollar signs to tell you generally how  expensive something is, which was a bit annoying (I know they were trying  to stay vague in order to account for changes since printing, but  still...). I highly recommend this book in combination with the Fodors,  which has more superficial information but about a tremendous number of  things.  The only drawback about that is- two books get heavy when you are  lugging them around London.	2000-05-01
US	51392802	RHNASD7JIGD19	0670892963	787771217	Bridget Jones : The Edge of Reason	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A HOOT!	I was lucky enough to have picked up and read this book when I was in London in January before it came out in the U.S.  I was v. glad I did  because the reviews here in the media haven't been all that favorable.   *Ignore them.*  The book is a hoot, you will embarrass yourself by laughing  out loud, and it's a quick read.  Yeah, it drags in parts and the Thailand  thing is a bit of an eye-roller, but it's what you expect- hey, the ending  of the original was a bit &quot;out there.&quot;  If you liked the original  this is a *must*read*.	2000-03-03
