US	51396562	R2UOVZB88QKFVR	0967726409	702979626	Potential Military Chemical/Biological Agents and Compounds	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Recommended Reading	An important reference book that reflects a change in US chemical response thinking.	2005-02-22
US	51396562	R2RLDBI07S27L6	0313268215	816392597	Making Markets: An Interdisciplinary Perspective on Economic Exchange (Contributions in Economics and Economic History)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Orginal Economic Literature - MUST READ	Imagine three authors looking at the very basis for a market system of exchange, and finding agreement in sociological, anthropological, and economic literature in defining a universe of exchange structures.<br /><br />Making Markets is not this sort of popularized literature, but an original intellectual discourse on the foundations of the market systems we take for granted.  It dispells many of the popular myths of market systems by identifying the true underlying principles at work.<br /><br />The authors had originally expressed their \\"perspective\\" in a technical report \\"Markets, Distribution, and Exchange after Societal Cataclysm;\\" a study on recovery scenarios of the United States economy after a nuclear conflict.  The authors must have written Making Markets in recognition of the far more reaching contribution of their study than the immediate thesis at hand.<br /><br />Making Markets does not discuss nuclear conflict.  It focuses on the systems of exchange as exemplified by scenarios that are typical in different parts of the world:  1) the Western \\"business as usual\\" model, 2) the third world \\"wasteland,\\" 3) developing nations \\"fat of the land\\", and 4) the \\"bureaucratic nightmare\\" of the former socialist states.<br /><br />The text is detailed, and authoratative, with references to both classical and contemporary economic literature.  A model of market systems is presented prior to the functionings of the four scenarios that exemplify the elements of this framework.  Its lessons are timeless and fundamental.  In a word, this is a \\"classical\\" work in our time.<br /><br />As an appraiser that had a career discerning value from economic anamolies, this is the sort of insight required for comprehending market problems and supporting the analytical approach.  Imagine an indication of value for public property with uncertain title in terms exceptional of precuniary units (i.e., money).  This is the sort of real problems that existed with property after the disestablishment of the Soviet Union.  Understanding the fundamentals of Making Markets reveals the analytical solution to these sort of economic problems inherent to massive change.standing the fundamentals of Making Markets reveals the analytical solution to these sort of economic problems inherent to massive change.	2003-06-25
US	51396562	RG3UVXLELSMUP	0333920856	791977693	Biological Warfare Against Crops (Global Issues)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	recommended reading by nervegas.com	This is an excellent historical review of anticrop BW efforts. The author starts with Iraq and UNSCOM, then quickly moves into describing the history of modern anticrop warfare from pre-WWII to the end of the US's BW program.<br />It covers the early efforts by France and Germany, then US and British efforts. Also described are US weapon systems, and target analysis.<br />This is a must have book in regards to studing anticrop BW, and understanding its history.	2003-05-05
US	51396562	R2AHSXIIDYG1JF	0398018529	144287809	Disease in the Civil War: Natural Biological Warfare in 1861-1865	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Recommended Reading by nervegas.com	The Civil War is used to illustrate the importance of disease in conflict.  Key to Steiner's work is that the concept of disease was well recognized by experienced officers before the golden age of the microscope.  A &quot;seasoned soldier&quot; referred more to ones immunity against childhood (camp) diseases than any mastery of the military arts.<br />Steiner shows cases where disease was the actual agent for success on the battlefield.  Experienced officers would rely on it, noting the &quot;sickly season&quot; or that a moving army was healthier than a stationed army.  In one case, the Confederates knowingly kept the Union pinned to a swampy geography so that malarea could wipe them out.<br />There is also discussions about the sociology of disease in military communities.  Doctors turned commanders faired as equals to non-medical officers in disease rates, and &quot;fudging&quot; these counts was common-place.<br />Disease in the Civil War is only a set of historic examples from one war.  Other authors have made similar treatments, though less direct, of other wars.<br />Though the author points to several cases where officers brashly recommended actions to spread disease from their own stricken soldiers to the enemy, no cases were discovered of such actions taking place.  So in terms of BW, this book is refering to the passive consiquences of knowing more about disease ecology than your enemy.<br />The choice of the Civil War is useful today as many in the US military are fond of studying this war, and this book offers insight on the potential impact of BW on the battlefield using such familiar historic cases.  This book also aids in dispelling the notion that CBW is a recent phenomena.	2002-12-21
US	51396562	R11BQD4M623HAF	030904832X	333168624	Veterans at Risk: The Health Effects of Mustard Gas and Lewisite	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Recommended Reading by nervegas.com	In WWII the US subjected around 60,000 US servicemen to chemical warfare experiments.  The objectives of these experiments was two-fold:  improve protection and defense against enemy CW, and comprehend the requirements necessary for an Allied CW retaliation.<br />BG Alden Waitt stated in WWII that what the US lacked was something authoratative on CW.  These field trials led to the two part report &quot;Tachnical Aspects of Chemical Warfare in the Field&quot; (TACWIF, 1946), and the experience that may have been necessary in response to an Axis CW offensive.<br />Unfortunately, these 60,000 servicement were exposed to chemicals that are now known carcinogens at a time when such latent effects were not appreciated.  That, on top of the intense security surrounding CW research has resulted in a large body of veterans that had suffered health consiquences without compensation or assistance.<br />Veteran's at Risk is a technical report on what those health consiquences are by reviewing the toxicology and medical knowledge on Mustard Gas and Lewisite.  It also reviews the technical literature resulting from the WWII field trials and experiments.  In the end, the NAS concluded that there was cause to believe that veterns had been adversely affected, and that all documentation from these experiments should be made publically available to assist these veterans.<br />The authors do an excellent job of covering the pathology of Mustard Gas and Lewisite.  The details of WWII field trials and experiments are also still useful today in comprehending the disposition of vesicant casualties.  This book is required reading for anyone anticipating treating vesicant casualties.<br />The only faults to the book that I could discern was poor military posology.  The authors did not always calculate dosage correctly, and could have revealed more on unit cancer risk for these vesicants.  These faults do not by any means take away from the importance of the book - this is just a word of caution on blindly accepting all the figures reported.ion on blindly accepting all the figures reported.	2002-12-21
US	51396562	R3MV86F6H4QTQB	0253334721	705690457	The United States and Biological Warfare: Secrets from the Early Cold War and Korea	Books	2	3	17	N	N	Like the Kennedy Assasination and Roswell...	My first thought in reading this book was that it was the product of a critical socialist mind.  Korean Conflict should be known as \\"Resist America, Aid Korea War\\" and the glorious peoples army of China were right.<br />Ultimately, the book is a well researched arguement of a conspiracy, like any you'd read on the Kennedy Assisination, UFO's in Rosewell, etc..  As a scholar, the references are more valuable than the book, which plays out the references with faulty reasoning (one could right a book about that alone).<br />Like most conspiracy theory books, it is the sort of book that can make you question even the perception of reality.  This lends itself to a thought provoking work, which concludes a circumstantial case that the US used BW in Korea.<br />There are major problems with this cicumstancial \\"evidence\\" and unlike a court room, no one really cares anymore to provide a counter argument before the jury deliberates.  Omission, bias, and incomplete analysis are the books major weaknesses.<br />It is unusual for a books weaknesses to be a selling point.  This is one of those unusual cases.  It shows the alternate opinion on the Korean Conflict, and demonstrates that though there is not fighting - the war has not ended.	2002-10-13
US	51396562	RMJ3OYL47QI20	0029353017	477215481	Unit 731: Japan's Secret Biological Warfare in World War II	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Recommended reading by nervegas.com	One of the earlier works on Unit 731.  Written by investigative journalists after they worked on a television series for BBC.<br />The first part of the book covers the beginning of Japans BW efforts by focusing on LTG Shiro Ishii.  It describes the man, his achievements, and how he progressed into managing a BW empire.<br />Following this third of the book is how the US investigated Japan's BW efforts, and then followed by the data swap for immunity from war crimes.<br />The story is fast past, interesting, and well researched.  It is not a true historical study, but a well written investigative report.  Along with BW, the book also covers Balloon attacks, and the possibility that US POW's were used in experiments.	2002-10-01
US	51396562	RUR0JFIXMQMQH	0801433061	43502979	The Chemical Weapons Taboo	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Highly recommended reading by nervegas.com	Richard Price writes a professional treatise on the perception of Chemical Weapons from WWI to current day.  It is a profound work, and goes into refreshing details without the slightest redundancy with other works.  The Chemical Weapons Taboo can be thought of as an original scholarly work.<br />He clarifies many current day perceptions on Chemical Weapons by analyzing treaties and political decisions.  Rather than rely on perfunctory assumptions of those treaties, he analyzes the committee notes and conduct of those treaties to show the conflict of ideas within their own context.  Classically he addresses the taboo's of poisons, weapons of the weak, and other themes, showing the inconsistencies in a norm, and how they faulter in expalining the Chemical Weapons Taboo.<br />Readers not familiar with the scholarly styles of contemporary writings in philosophy will find this a difficult book to digest.  The vocabulary is not scientific/technical, but percise and demanding.  Nonetheless, it is insightful on the processes of international law, conduct of states, and the historical era's that have influenced the current day &quot;taboo.&quot;<br />An intensely rewarding study (i.e., six-stars).  By showing how the &quot;taboo&quot; was arrived at in Western societies, it is apparent that it is not a universally held notion.<br />The author concludes that weapons are &quot;political artifacts,&quot; not merely the inevitable consiquence of technology.  A notion that many in the military-industial complex can concur with.	2002-09-30
US	51396562	R2FGSRPLH65JJN	1857530640	473954263	Biological Warfare in the 21st Century: Biotechnology and the Proliferation of Biological Weapons	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Recommended reading by nervegas.com	Malcom Dando writes a clear review of public assertions fo the impact of BW (UN, SIPRI, etc.); then augments this with a review of military literature, some remarkably considered still classified by the proponent.<br />The author presents different biotech methods and research endeavors to display potential pathways of acquiring BW agents.  Finally the book resolves this with a discussion of verification approaches.<br />The author succeeds in most places, but fails in one critical area - a military comprehension of BW.  As the author is a biologist that has focused his attentions towards disarment issues - this is not unexpected, and common with the much of the disarment-based CBW literature.  Thus there is some bluring between the lines of public health diseases and technologies, and those of peculiar interest to military endeavors.<br />For a person not familiar with past BW activities, and biotechnologies, and disarmament efforts, this would make a good primer - the authors intent being reasonably achieved.	2002-09-29
US	51396562	R1A3232UADFMTK	013051327X	239909255	Atmospheric Diffusion (Ellis Horwood series in environmental science)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Recommended reading by nervegas.com	&quot;Atmospheric Diffusion&quot; is an advanced text book.  As with most books on atmpospheric diffusion, Pasquill's and Smith's book is heavy in statistical math.  Unlike many such books, it is also well illustrated and includes many emprical examples (e.g., K rates for different terrains, methods for determining stability, etc.).  This illustrative, and explanitory method makes this probably the most appropriate book for introducing a graduate class to the subject.<br />The book focuses on industrial cases with plume diffusion, and is rather English-centric.  The book represents a good introduction to the subject, with considerable practical applications.  Chapters are written in a topical fashion that to address specific problems rather than models.  This would be typical of class room presentations, where different models would be presented on a discussion of the same problem.	2002-09-23
US	51396562	RXSMK47Z2B9JD	1881874036	439837624	Chemical warfare and radiation research in the former Soviet Union: The Military Medical Academy and Institute of Military Medicine (1970-1989) (Foreign technology assessment)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Recommended reading...	Before Ken Alibek, Simon I Peymer wrote about Biopreparat in 1989 and the Soviet establishment involved in medical CBR research.  From what is presented, the author appears to be the defector Vladimir Pasechnik that Ken Alibek refers to in his book Biohazards.<br />The book is not well put together, and reads like a long IIR or debriefing.  It includes a flyer from Biopreparat at the end of the book.<br />While the book is not the polished text one expects from a publisher, it is highly revealing on the attitudes, working conditions, and projects of the former Soviet Union in the CBR field.  The author appears to have come from the CW side of the house, and was later involved in RW research.<br />The book details how and why the Soviet Union investigated Substance 33 (aka V-sub-x), Agent 78 (aka BZ), and the probelms with military medicine for these agents.  The presentation shows a completely different approach to military medicine than that in the West.<br />The accounts of RW medical research were more chilling.  It appeared that the Warsaw Pact standards for CBR exposure were based on a two-week survival time in combat.<br />The military medical establishment had excellent resources in RW created by a system that put researchers and doctors into first-hand experience with radiation casualties from accidents.  This was suspected by a US doctor that went to the Soviet Union to assist after Chernobyl, when he noted that the Soviet doctors were far more informed on radiological casualties than the state-of-the-art in the US.<br />Experimental treatments for RW casualties are fully explained.  There was a considerable concern for alleviating the transitory incapacitation from 10+ Gy dosings, and some unusual aspects discovered.  The drugs experimented with looked promising, but were still noted as not meeting Western expectations of safety.<br />The author repeatedly points out how Chernobyl reversed Soviet thinking on Radiological Operations, noting that psychological effects were far more pronounced from multi-specied radiation than anticipated.<br />This is essential reading for understanding the culture of military medical research in the former Soviet Union, and points to real universal problems in military medicine.ical effects were far more pronounced from multi-specied radiation than anticipated.<br />This is essential reading for understanding the culture of military medical research in the former Soviet Union, and points to real universal problems in military medicine.	2002-09-23
US	51396562	R3TZCBJET6T99S	1590331362	487746363	Lethal Mists	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Has value according to nervegas.com	Eric Taylor recognized that most written materials on CBW were too technical for the average reader, and he intented to resolve this by demonstrating the natural sciences that CBW is based on.<br />I unfortunately read too much into the title, and thus was greatly disappointed.  Expecting to read a well illustrated book that discussed the natural sciences behind CBW - I read a book that was more-or-less a sectioned biochemistry textbook followed by a sectioned description of CBW agents.  Whereas the author could have shown the basis for selecting CW agents based on volatility, vapor density, etc., as was commonly discussed after WWI; or detailed the mechanisms for atmospheric difussion - he dwelt on chemical bonds, basic biology, and the typical over-emphasis on CBW agents that is common to many CBW writers.<br />Eric Taylor makes a good attempt at writing what he perceived was needed.  It is full of many good examples, and presents interesting historical facts.  I hold him in high regards in this respect.<br />The author is a biochemist, and thus his emphasis is on biology and chemistry as it relates to CBW.  This aspect will undoubtedly loose many readers, appearing to be a 101 microbiology or chemistry textbook with unrelated CBW Agent afterwards.  The books structure is topical, focusing on each topic while loosing focus on the over-all purpose (i.e., post hole method).<br />I did enjoy the authors historical treatment of many topics.	2002-07-16
US	51396562	R1NLNG7WKAS34Z	0450026590	952525465	Disaster at Bari	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Recommended Reading by nervegas.com	The allies and the axis countries were poised to unleash chemical weapons on each other throughout WWII.  As part of the US's retalitory response, a shipment of Mustard Gas bombs was sent to Bari, Italy to be theatre positioned for use by the Army Air Corps.  What Infield writes is the story of one of the least known, but worst naval disasters in the war.<br />His style of writing is that common to most popular WWII novels, but it is well researched and is based on many interviews and biographical schetches.<br />The distaster unfolds when a German air strike hits the jammed harbor of Bari.  Shipments of fuel oil and explosives ignite killing many sailors and local towns people.  Due to the secrecy surrounding chemical weapons, unknown to the military at Bari is that the USS John Harvey, a liberty ship, was loaded with Mustard Gas bombs.  This ship went down with all hands and its toxic cargo mixed with the feul oil on the waters surface to bring about a most peculiar aftermath.<br />Interesting to read as it shows actual response to a chemical emergency.  Humorous, when a US MP discounts the comment by a German EPW that the garlic smell in the air is Mustard - stating that the Itallians love garlic.<br />The strange part of the aftermath was that Mustard Gas was not suspected in the casualties until well after the disaster.  Several hundred patients suddenly began to die without the typical symptoms of Mustard poisoning.  It was largely due to the weak Mustard-oil mixture the patients were covered in, and the failure of medical services in decontaminating these patients from not recognizing a chemical emergency.<br />One ship picked up several survivors only to have to be led to shore after it's entire crew went blind (temporarily) from the off-gassing from these contaminated persons.<br />The book ends by discussing how the disaster was covered up, largely to avoid giving the Germans an excuse to use chemical weapons.  The medical knowledge gained by reviewing the casualties of the disaster was put forward as leading to the use of Mustard-like agents in treating cancer.  The end of the book contains copies of reports at the time of the disaster.<br />Missing from the book are discussions as to the hazard of unitary chemical weapons, as the disaster clearly made a case for the US Navy to pursue binary weapons after WWII.  Also missing was the possibility on how the disaster may have led to a US patent in the 1950's to use Mustard Gas in Oil to defend against amphibious invassion.<br />These two items are missing because the writer is an author of WWII war novels - not chemical warfare.  But he is percise in his presentation, not making the errors on CBW common to most non-CBW writers.<br />After going to the National Archives and finding a series of photographs from the disaster, it was interesting to see how a Signal Corps photographer showed a US Chaplin leadinhg rescue efforts after the attack - but never was meantioned in this book.  There are many sides to any story, and the author found one, but there are more to be told about this particular incident.  Disaster at Bari tells a good story, but does not complete the history.casualties of the disaster was put forward as leading to the use of Mustard-like agents in treating cancer.  The end of the book contains copies of reports at the time of the disaster.<br />Missing from the book are discussions as to the hazard of unitary chemical weapons, as the disaster clearly made a case for the US Navy to pursue binary weapons after WWII.  Also missing was the possibility on how the disaster may have led to a US patent in the 1950's to use Mustard Gas in Oil to defend against amphibious invassion.<br />These two items are missing because the writer is an author of WWII war novels - not chemical warfare.  But he is percise in his presentation, not making the errors on CBW common to most non-CBW writers.<br />After going to the National Archives and finding a series of photographs from the disaster, it was interesting to see how a Signal Corps photographer showed a US Chaplin leadinhg rescue efforts after the attack - but never was meantioned in this book.  There are many sides to any story, and the author found one, but there are more to be told about this particular incident.  Disaster at Bari tells a good story, but does not complete the history.	2002-07-12
US	51396562	R6AAKSX5CZ7Y	052108041X	657729339	Probit Analysis	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Classical reading recommended by nervegas.com	Novices view toxicity as being measured in terms median dose (e.g., LD50).  Actual toxicity is a range of dose responses that cover a whole population as a curve.<br />This is Finney's classical textbook on Probit Analysis.  Finney reveals the origins of this technique that is commonly used in posolgical aspects of toxicology.<br />The basis of the analysis is codings of response from percentages to units of normalized probabilities (Probits).  Thus a dose-response curve becomes linear as appose to curve-linear.  The usefulness of this analytical technique is to report on the slope of these probabilities (Probit Slope).  It is widely assumed that the Probit Slope is treated in terms of Log10, but Finney discusses that it can be Log5 or any other smoothing function necessary for accuracy with the data.<br />Details significance, statistical method, and applications (mixtures, etc.).  Does not discuss toxicology outside of the technique presented.<br />A must read for anyone working with dose, dosage - fundamental!	2002-07-09
US	51396562	R215QJ3URZ6TY4	0792343719	995600722	Forestry Pesticide Aerial Spraying: Spray Droplet Generation, Dispersion, and Deposition (Environmental Science and Technology Library)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Recommended Reading by nervegas.com	&quot;Forestry Pesticide Aerial Spraying&quot; is a book that shows that the science and technology of aerial spraying is still evolving.<br />This is a great book on aerial spraying due to the lack of basic literature on the state of the art.  It presents the current state of the art and some of the problems (like inaccurate sizing methods in wind tunnels).<br />Obvious from this book is that aerial spraying has moved beyond basic fluid mechanics into the information age.  Discusses the auditing capabilities with GPS.  Much of the emphasis remains on nozzels and dispersion modeling, but the uniqueness of forestry stands in this arena are well discussed.<br />This is the sort of book that should be read by anyone that wants to understand the design problems of aerial spray systems and the operational consiquences.	2002-07-09
US	51396562	R1Y8QU3MUND3XS	0275937496	912570652	Ballistic Missiles in the Third World: Threat and Response (The Washington Papers)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Recommended Reading by nervegas.com	Carus presents a simple argument with a complex and serious consiquence.  Namely that the logistics of ballistic missiles favor their adoption by developing nations, and that the low accuracy of these weapons favors the use of nuslear, biological, or chemical warheads.<br />The notion that an air force is essential for defense is met with the reality of cost and foriegn dependencies in the developing world.  Counter to this is the notion that ballistic missiles offer an affordable solution, compounded by a quicker reaction time than aircraft.<br />Carus demonstrates through review of recent events and the missile and space programs of various developing nations to show a trend to acquire ballistic missile capabilities.  Through a comparative discussion of weapon capabilities and effects, he then makes a convincing arguement that the inhernet deficits of ballistic missiles over aircraft is in effect driving the same nations to develop chemical and biological weapons.<br />superb political science and military analysis.	2002-07-09
US	51396562	RW5YXLCQBT36N	0849328039	406540070	Handbook of Chemical and Biological Warfare Agents	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Accurate, but not what you might expect.	I once ordered a book from CBIAC on survivability of materials to CBW Agents.  From all descriptions, I believed it to be something that discussed various materials and mechanisms of failure.  Unfortunately, it turned out to be nothing more than a list of materials with a rating code.<br />Handbook is a bit better.  However, don't purchase this if you are expecting to read a book on CBW Agents and wanting a better understanding of the topic.  Handbook is written sort of like those manuals you find on any truck caring hazardous materials...a list of UN codes, chemical names, and safe distances for spills.  Overall, the intent seems to be a presentation of CBW Agents in the same format as typically used for occupational health and safety (TWA's, etc.)<br />I applaud the author for his thoroughness.  He described Nerve Agent GP (actually GP11) of the GV Series with information that is not readily available.  As usual, the Novichok agents have been misrepresented as a class of chemicals (it's a technique), with no more detail than what has been previously described.<br />The first section of the book is an index of all the various nomenclature applied to CBW Agents (military symbols, trivial names, other designations etc.)  Following this section is a series of brief excerpts on each agent.  Nothing in-depth on these agents, and the toxicology information (if available) is pretty much limited to the No-Effect thresholds used for occupational health.  Subsequent sections treat each broad category of agents with information typical in MSDS's - very generic.<br />What most readers will find difficult about this book is that it is likened to indexes to indexes, and then once you find what you are looking for - it's more generic than most readers would prefer.	2001-10-31
US	51396562	R1HP23GLGU74UX	0313276439	785330858	International Handbook on Chemical Weapons Proliferation	Books	1	0	2	N	N	Handbook - Not	Handbook is a very scholarly peice of work.  The intent of the book, its audience, or possible use is not clear.  It does not analyze how nations acquire CW weapons, nor details CW proliferation history.<br />The focus is on a series of notable events involving CW weapons by the developing world (not all inclussive).  Many times the points being made is the difficulty in assessing what is really happening elsewhere in the world, and the various inaccurate perceptions made at the time of events (hind-sight).<br />So if it is not a handbook, what is it?  Perhaps a scrap book of a few CW weapon events in the developing world.	2001-10-31
US	51396562	R28UMY6MB41Z9V	0809078201	514159811	Pox Americana: The Great Smallpox Epidemic of 1775-82	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Highly recommended by nervegas.com	Pox is a truly scholarly work based on primary historical documents.  It is obvious that it was a true labor of love by Prof. Fenn.<br />The epidemic that Fenn studied is a particularly valuable in understanding a little known area of the American Revolutionary War (though her scope covers the entire North American Continet).<br />Many know that the British had released smallpox on French alligned tribes seiging Ft. Pitt during the French Indian War.  Less known was the great concern that General George Washington had about smallpox during the American Revolution.  Elsewhere, it has been described that the main reason the seige of Boston lasted as long as it did was due to smallpox, and that the Continental Army was the first army in world history to require compulsory immunization - force-wide.<br />Prof. Fenn paints an even darker picture.  It could be said that the events with smallpox during the Revolutionary War was America's first biological emergency.  She clearly documents cases that appear to be obvious attempts by the British to infect COntinental Forces with smallpox at Boston, and later in Virginia.  The Virginia case is most appauling as the British turned freed slaves (loyalists) into their delivery vehicle.<br />The failure to innoculate forces was cited as the main reason the Continental Army failed to take Canada.  The army literally melted away, with replacements being taken down as soon as they arrived.<br />Eventually, 1777, the Continental Army required that all new recruits go through innoculation stations before joining the army.<br />The remainder of the book (2/3rds) describes the impact of smallpox on other communities in North America.  The impact on the tribes around Vancouver at the time clearly documents how devistating disease can be to a civilization.	2001-10-31
US	51396562	R18Y44YGUG629X	0719518709	466634784	The Compleat Flea: A Light-hearted Chronicle, Personal and Historical, of One of Man's Oldest Enemies	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Recommended Reading by nervegas.com	Complete Flea is a study of the flea in human culture.  The author  explores the flea as subject and artifact in art, poems, literature, and  plays.  It is typical to find books such as Complete Flea for other animals  such as cats, dogs, etc...but a parasite is an unusual compilation.<br />The  book is illustrated with some nice detailed sketches of the flea from the  advent of microscopy, as well as works from various artists.<br />The Complete  Flea says nothing of the incredible biology of the flea, its ecology, or  habits.  Rather it focuses purely on its impression on human culture, which  has usually been non-disease related.  For those that have a soft spot in  their heart for these little wingless flies...Complete Flea will offer much  intellectual fodder for conversation.	2000-08-09
US	51396562	R3MIS8EMUAIXA	0943255058	86343154	Biotechnology for Aerospace Applications (Advances in Applied Biotechnology Series) (v. 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Recommended Reading By nervegas.com	&quot;Biotechnology for Aerospace Applications&quot; was the proceeding to  a symposium on Biotechnology held at the US Air Force Academy in 1989.  The  personalities at the symposium were recognized experts in their  specialities in Biotechnology.<br />The papers dealt with important issues  such as alternative fuel resources, environmental remediation with  microorganism, biosensors, biodegradable detergents, marine biotechnology,  chemical processes with catalytic antibodies, optics, unique problems of  biotech in space, etc.  The only down-side of the symposium was BioSphere  II, which was more fad than science.<br />While many of the attendees were  involved in defense related work, the symposium more or less focused on a  wider industry applications.  Having attended this symposium, I found this  book a good presentation of the discussions held.	2000-08-08
US	51396562	R1RBUUJQ8LQKHU	0723609411	561628879	Brucellosis	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Recommended Reading By nervegas.com	This book is a good compilation of papers on Brucellosis.  The facinating  portions of this book reveal the phylogeny of different species and biovars  of Brucellosis - tangible through genetic homogenicity.  Furthermore,  review of epidemiological data and the experiences of the contributors  dispell two long-held opinions of the presentation of Brucellosis patients.  Many medical texts report that Brucellosis is uniquely characterized by a  persistent depression, which the contributors contend is no more remarkable  than that with other disabling diseases.  Also, 'Br abortus' has been long  believed to present a uniquely high rate of spontanious abortion in  pregnant patients, which again the contributors remark is not supported by  the epidemiological evidence.<br />I give the book a high rating for its  excellent detail in presenting the signs and symptoms of Brucellosis, and  its contemporary understanding of a classical disease that is still a  problem for much of the world.	2000-08-08
US	51396562	R2MUNJC6H62IDA	0198581424	573310336	The Poisonous Cloud: Chemical Warfare in the First World War	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Recommended reading by nervegas.com	The Nobel laureate Fritz Haber will always be remembered by Chemists for his process to make ammonium nitrate from the atmosphere through iron catalysis.  When his son, the author, witnessed a protest in Germany at a  meeting to honor his father for his achievements he was compelled to write  this book.<br />Fritz Haber is also thought of by many as the father of  chemical warfare.  Ludwig Haber offers insight into the personal life and  beliefs of his father, while attempting to exhonorate his father for his  role in CW.  He ends up not being able to truly exhonorate him, but does  offer a fatalistic opinion of his father's role as a patriotic proponent  that ends up a pesimistic defeatist (in regards to CW).<br />The Poisonous  Cloud is a complex, richly detailed work on the history of CW in WWI.  The  author is an economic historian by profession, and his approach is  refreshing.  Detailed are the individual battles that CW was used in, it's  gain in prominence by military commanders, the industrial aspects of  weaponization, and various lesser known incidences of CW.<br />The Poisonous  Cloud is one of the best source books on CW in WWI I have ever read, and is  derfinitely thought provoking.  Through detailed analysis the author  discussed the utility of CW, and concludes several findings that are  difficult to refute.  Particularly, the advantage CW made on the  battlefield was at a disproportionate cost to industry at home that drew  resources away from conventional weapons.  Furthermore, he points out that  unlike the tank and aircraft, after WWI there no unifying doctrine or  tactical purpose was devised for CW.	2000-05-01
US	51396562	RCLD1AFUECXLL	4900737399	589733327	Unit 731 - Testimony	Books	4	56	60	N	N	Recommened reading by nervegas.com	Unit 731 Testimonial is written as a sort of follow-up to a nationwide tour of the Unit 731 exhibition in Japan.  This exhibition sought to educate Japanese citizens on what had been until recently an ignored part  of their history.<br />What made these exhibits intereresting, and this book,  is that it worked as a forum for veterans and victims alike to recount  their stories.  Privates, doctors, secret police all came out to speak  (some anonimously) about their role in the horrific activities of Unit  731.<br />Unit 731 Testimonial does not describe the history of the Japanese  Bilogical Warfare research.  Rather it concentrates on the actual  experiences of people involved in the human experiments.  Some of those  quoted were truly ignorant of what Unit 731 was really doing, others had  suspicions, while a few knew in detail.  Some of those quoted did not  actually participate in Unit 731's activities, but had been personally  involved in similar atrocities and compelled by the exhibit to  recount.<br />Unit 731 is invaluable as a resource in understanding the  mentality of the Japanese involved in BW related atrocities during World  War II.	2000-05-01
US	51396562	R1BA28FOJQ0JAO	0854944451	817824535	Urban air pollution dispersion models: A critical survey (Environmental studies)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Non-critical survey of dispersion models.	Zib writes what could easily have been a class notebook (about 100 pages) compilation of  mathematical models used for urban atmospheric diffussion analysis.  Each page details the mathematics of each model with little  attention to critique or explaination.<br />I give the book a thumbs up for  detailing the full spectrum of models employed for the urban environment.  In this respects, the reader has the opertunity to consider and compare  different models.  Unfortunately, there was no real practical knowledge  departed on these models, nor a critical analysis of their use.	2000-05-01
US	51396562	R3NK34AXAHP8SL	0870791273	936186840	Handbook on Atmospheric Diffusion	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Recommended Reading by nervegas.con	Excellent book on the mathematical models of atmosphic diffusion (statisitcal, similarity, K-models, box models, and long-range transport models).<br />Hanna and Briggs use a very direct approach in describing the  various mathematical models, offering little explainatory text.  A  background in statistical math is assumed.  Some calculus would be  advisable for some of the models described.  However, where explainations  are made, it is insightful from two well expeirienced authors.<br />The fist  chapter describes briefly atmospheric processes that influence dispersion  models.  Subsequent chapters deal with various models devised to address  dispersion in ranges between 100m to 10km.  The differences between puff  and plume diffusion are discussed specifically in one chapter.  Also  described are models for complex terrrain (ie hills, urban, etc),  deposition models, and near-release-site influences (ie stack height,  release heat, etc).  The last chapter deals with long range transport  models (&gt;100km), and offers a reasonable solution.<br />The field of  atmospheric diffussion modeling is still rather early in its evolution, and  the authors point out many of the limitations of these mathematical models.  Their explainations of these limitations are based on experience, thorough  literature review, and a  good understanding of the fundamental origin of  the models.  Many of these limitations are frequently ignored by other  authors on the topic, and are well worth reading.	2000-04-28
US	51396562	R2Z1C8ATOWOLPI	0688016464	519924449	The Truth About the Neutron Bomb, The Inventor of the Bomb Speaks Out	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Recommended Reading ............	No discussion of the neutron bomb is complete without reading this book.<br />Sam Cohen writes a bitter discription of how the US politically adopts weapons.  He writes about the first debate over the neutron bomb in the 1950's and 1960's, and later offers opinions of the second debate in the 1980's.<br />He describes how a Neutron Bomb (Enhanced Radiation Weapon)  works, and how the concept was first pruposed by himself, and championed by  the US Navy.  The idea was not well received by the US Air Force, which  viewed it as a threat to it's Strategic Air Command - being tactical in  nature.<br />This is a must read for those interested in US Radiological  Warfare (RW) history.  While he does not discuss any of the now known  attempts to develop RW bombets, his discussion of non-nuclear RW is  insightful.<br />The author is highly critical of the US Air Force, which he  claims biased every discussion of nuclear warfare.  The US Air Force,  supporting the Strategic Air Command, sought to eliminate the development  of any tactical nuclear weapon.  He also points to the persistent belief by  US planners that NATO would be the first to employ nuclear weapons, which  was not supported by fact.<br />The surprise twist is the author's discussion  that the Soviet Union may have actually been the first to devise a neutron  bomb, and that during the 1960's debate of the weapon, the Soviet military  openly discussed the advantages of using such weapons in combat.  Further  irony is gleamed in the author's claim that the US's only neutron bomb is  actually not a neutron bomb at all...contrasting the neutron bomb as a  fussion device without any blast effects on ground structures, and the US's  weapon as a fission device with a considerable blast effect.	2000-04-25
US	51396562	R2BEJM4J69JBOI	9241700793	674986532	Paralytic Shellfish Poisoning (Offset Publications)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Recommended reading by nervegas.com	This book was cowritten by E J Schantz, who is one of the most significant figures in Saxitoxin research.  Saxitoxins are some of the most potent non-protein toxins known.<br />The book details the global distribution,  dinoflagellates responsible, and ecology of toxic blooms.  It provides  accurate descriptions of the intoxication in humans, allergic reactions,  and toxicity data.<br />What makes this book unique is its well developed  (time of death and body weight corrected) bioassy technique for determining  the amount of Saxitoxin in materails, and recommendations for safe food  consumption.<br />It is a must read in understanding the posology of  Saxitoxin.	2000-02-01
US	51396562	RUDPJUNH87U1D	0520222040	582468112	Anthrax: The Investigation of a Deadly Outbreak	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Recommended Reading by Nervegas.com	Jeanne Guillemin writes a first person account of an independent investigation of the 1979 Anthrax outbreak in Soviet Sverdlovsk.  The style of writting is unique in that she intersperses throughout the book loosely  related discussions of sociological and cultural literature.  Anthrax comes  to the conclusion that the outbreak was pulmonary anthrax emminating from  Military Compound 19.  The books one and only disappointment is the groups  failure to investigate the military compound (they couldn't get on  it)...leaving the reader with the body, the smoke, but no gun.<br />The author  freely expresses her opinions throughout the book.  She describes the  personal losses from the anthrax fatalities.  Her description of the  casualty presentation is a must read...the mild onset followed by a sudden  collapse after the anthrax eclipse.  She points out several times the  exagerations of risks and the BW terrorist threat.<br />The ending leaves one  feeling uneasy with Russian officials now seeming to be less candid about  the incident, and former ones pointing out the matter should be dropped due  to the multi-lateral aspect of BW today.	2000-01-31
US	51396562	R2E0NO4TDUBE4L	0802712622	724395742	The Ecology of War: Environmental Impacts of Weaponry and Warfare	Books	1	0	4	N	N	Could of done more...	The Ecology of War makes the arguement that military activities disproportionately afeect the environment.  Quoted is a figure that the US DOD produces 5 times more toxic materails than the top 5 US chemical  companies.<br />Though this begins to peak interest, the author fails to  analyze military activities into types of environmental impacts, the risks  associated with these impacts, nor any form of comparison with non-military  activities.  Some examples appear to be out-side of the scope of the  book.<br />The Ecology of War reads more like a scrap book than a study with a  purpose.  The author contends that military activities are harmful to the  environment, but does not go far beyond stating the obvious, or offer  solutions.<br />The one thing that may interest a reader is the authors  time-line of scortched earth efforts, which is rather well compiled.	2000-01-10
US	51396562	RCPFZL4L1ZO5C	0850523443	56479359	Hitler's Nuclear Weapons: The Development and Attempted Deployment of Radiological Armaments by Nazi Germany (Pen & Sword Books)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Recommended Radiological Warfare reading	Oppenheimer is known to have said that the bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki came from the German arsenal.<br />This German authors starts the book with this statement and the fact that US Navy archives show that 550 kg of uranium were captured from U-boat U-234 in May 1945 while it was en  route to Japan.<br />The author makes an attempt at revising what is known  about nuclear energy and warfare from this era.  While compeling, the  author fails to back up claims with documentation.  The most documented  account is derived from an interview and dairy of the radio operator for  U-234.<br />Nonetheless, the book is essential reading for knowing the origins  of radiological warfare, and a healthy critique of nuclear warfare  history.<br />The book goes at length to discuss Dr Werner Heisenberg's role  in Germany's officail Uranium Project.  Dr Heisenberg had been seen by  Allied intelligence at the time as an incompetant manager of this program.  The author makes a convincing case that he was actually undermining German  efforts by purposefully directing it in directions he knew were dead-ends.  In this account the world may have a debt of gratitude towards  Heisenberg.<br />The real surprise in the book is the account of the  unofficial Uranium Project lead by Reichspostminister Ohnesorge.  This  effort was regarded as a joke by Allied intelligence, but it may well have  succeeded in its aims.  The author argues that Hitler refered to their  nuclear weapon program as a Uran Bombe, but the weapon being developed by  the Riechpostministry was termed a Uranium Bombe, which resembled more of a  radiological weapon.<br />Notes that the Riechpostminitry may have built the  worlds first nuclear reactor (methane reactor) to produce radiological  materials.<br />A detailed presentation of V-weapon efforts is made,  concentrating on the V-4 weapon being built at the SS-Mittelwerk.  The V-4  being a 2,000 lb bomb with 850 kg explosive and 12 pumpkin-sized bomblets  loaded with 150 kg of radiological agents.  The V-4 was believed to be  capable of exterminating all life within 2 to 3 km when detonated at 100 m  HOB.<br />Treated to a lesser extent is the Japanese efforts to develop a  nuclear weapon, the reason why the Uranium towards war end was being  transfered from Germany.<br />Though the book is largely unsubstantiated, it  is a must read for understanding the origins of Radiological Warfare.ded with 150 kg of radiological agents.  The V-4 was believed to be  capable of exterminating all life within 2 to 3 km when detonated at 100 m  HOB.<br />Treated to a lesser extent is the Japanese efforts to develop a  nuclear weapon, the reason why the Uranium towards war end was being  transfered from Germany.<br />Though the book is largely unsubstantiated, it  is a must read for understanding the origins of Radiological Warfare.	2000-01-10
US	51396562	R3IM6CQ53KH2XY	0850662176	662791238	Nuclear Radiation in Warfare	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Recommended Radiological reading by nervegas.com	Dr Rotblat details forms of Radiological Warfare, including salted nukes, the neutron bomb, fall out, and induced radiation.  Supplimenting this is a detailed account of the biological effects of radiation from different  aspects, along with a good amount of risk data.<br />Dr Rotblat is an expert  in nuclear radiation, and this book is worth reading for his views on the  subject.  However, he is not an expert on military affairs, and fails to  address the many military problems with nuclear radiation that are worth  exploring, and support his views against nuclear and radiological warfare;  while entertaining ludicrous forms of radiation protection in an effort to  attack neutron weapons.<br />The health effects from radiation that are  detailed will provide the reader with an understanding of the  rate-of-action and duration-of-action of radiological dosing.  Also of  value is the degree of incapacitation, lethality, and amount of medical  support necessary  for casualty management.<br />This book is worth reading  for its detailed account of radiolgical effects on people from nuclear and  radiological weapons.  The health opinions contained within it are  credible, and a must know for those concerned with radiological operations  or planning.	2000-01-10
US	51396562	R37ITJRF1JOMRS	0262631474	639754971	Inventing Accuracy: A Historical Sociology of Nuclear Missile Guidance (Inside Technology)	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Recommended for Targeteers by nervegas.com	This is one of those very odd specialty books that always has you wondering who is the real audience.<br />The author has done an excellent job of researching the topic, and appears to be from the missile guidance  community (or at least aerospace).  His style is dry, but frank.<br />The book  traces the US experience in missile guidance technology, then analyzes the  sequence of  RFP to field test to reveal the sociological dynamics of a  technology.<br />For the information revolution, and a society that is  becoming increasingly more technological, this book is an early example of  what will likely be reproduced elsewhere for other  technologies.<br />Throughout the book, the author debates what is accuracy.  Traditionally, the Circular Error Probability (CEP) has been used, but some  believe that a bias displaces the actual aiming point, and thus reduces the  meaning of the CEP.  Not addressed in this book is the debate concerning  intelligence assets to support deep and strategic strikes, which accounts  for many peoples belief in an accuracy bias.  The author's bias arguement  is along different lines than that used today, and is not well developed  (the author argues against it).<br />The arguement being addressed is how  credible is a nuclear deterent if systems are perfected to hit a test  target on a Pacific island where all the navigational variables are known.  This arguement is revisited by more recent books dealing with smart  weapons; weapons which contractually meet their requirements to hit targets  in arid Nevada, but appear incapable of doing likewise in a misty European  battlefields.<br />The author does present an interesting sociological model  that has a wide application:  the certainty trough.  This model implies  that those with the greatest confidence in a technology are well informed  on it, and between those that develop the technology, and those that know  little about it.<br />While dealing only with strategic ballistic missiles,  the author's approach to technological sociology is well worth reading and  applying to current day arguements with other weapon systems.the author's approach to technological sociology is well worth reading and  applying to current day arguements with other weapon systems.	2000-01-07
US	51396562	R2EIQ8FD0BHY4Y	0702229415	716653320	Keen As Mustard: Britain's Horrific Chemical Warfare Experiments in Australia	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A rather personable account of human experiments	During WWII about 60,000 US Servicemen were subjected to experiments with Mustard Gas.  An overview of these experiments and their long-term health consiquences were well documented in a NSF study during the  1980's.<br />Bridget Goodwin's book compliments what is know of the US  experience by revealing what was done in Australia.  During WWII, the US,  England, Canada, India, and Australia collaborated on CBW research.  The  Australian experience was vital in determining the efficy of Mustard Gas in  tropical conditions.  Specifically, these studies determined that Mustard  Gas was 4 times more toxic in tropical climates compared with temperate  climates, that systemic effects were more prevalent, and that British  protective clothing was rendered toxic in tropical climates.<br />Far beyond  these facts that are often quoted elsewere, 'Keen As Mustard' details the  personal accounts of how these experiments were conducted.  The character  and personality of the researchers, assistants, and 'volunteers' are well  developed.  The morbid humor of those involved in these experiments is  revealed.<br />'Keen As Mustard' is also useful presenting reasons why  Chemical Warfare was not initiated in the Pacific Theatre.  Having read the  available US manuals on chemical employment at the time, I agree with the  authors findings that development of reliable munition expenditure tables,  tactics, and safe entry times did not make it to the field level in time to  be considered.  There was no agreement between CW oficers at the time on  how to conduct chemical operations, and no assurances could be made to  commanders of the length of the hazard or reliability of protective  means.<br />The human experiments conducted in Australia and elsewhere were  largely responsible for what is now known about Blister Agents, and the  employment of chemical weapons.  What was discerned in an experiment was by  1945 detailed in a manual, only to be endlessly reproduced since.<br />What  'Keen As Mustard' offers that has been largely forgotten since these  experiments is the disposition of Mustard Gas casualties.  The difficulty  in producing casualties was documents by Australian soldiers being  seemingly unaffected by Mustard Gas by removing their bandages to work  through tactical obsticals.  The methods for determining casualty severity  and time to incapacitation for medical officers is well worth revisiting.  Furthermore, the methods of hospital care are interesting and a good  firsthand account.<br />'Keen As Mustard' has a respectable bibliography of  Australian sources, and the author had made many personal interviews and  acquired materials from private collections.  The personal accounts reveal  how non-voluntary the volunteers were, and the pressure of the war effort  to victomize their health.en As Mustard' offers that has been largely forgotten since these  experiments is the disposition of Mustard Gas casualties.  The difficulty  in producing casualties was documents by Australian soldiers being  seemingly unaffected by Mustard Gas by removing their bandages to work  through tactical obsticals.  The methods for determining casualty severity  and time to incapacitation for medical officers is well worth revisiting.   Furthermore, the methods of hospital care are interesting and a good  firsthand account.<br />'Keen As Mustard' has a respectable bibliography of  Australian sources, and the author had made many personal interviews and  acquired materials from private collections.  The personal accounts reveal  how non-voluntary the volunteers were, and the pressure of the war effort  to victomize their health.	2000-01-05
US	51396562	R1B6EBR0PPDYE5	0849347483	11825395	In Vitro Percutaneous Absorption: Principles, Fundamentals, and Applications	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Useful for experimental design...and more	'In Vitro Percutaneous Absorption' is a collection of papers by various researchers.  It provides an insight into the skin absorption research community.<br />For experimental researchers, 'In Vitro PC' is useful for  design and preparation of experiments.  It is also useful in revealing  common sources of experimental error.<br />For those not performing in vitro  experiments, there are two chapters that are useful for understanding the  mechanisms of percutaneous absorption, and how enhansors such as DMSO and  azones work (both chapters are first rate).  The chapter on the LPL Theory  of skin penetration offers a concise, understandable concept of  percutaneous absorption.  The chapter on penetration enhansors details  classes of enhansor chemicals and their mechnism of action.  It also  addresses synergy between enhansors, and efficy.<br />For those actively  involved in percutaneous research this book will be readily understandable.  The authors assume that the reader is familiar with much of the  terminology, so those not in their field of study may find some chapters  difficult to read.	2000-01-05
US	51396562	R7SLSEZ30X7HX	0275920070	669921143	Herbicidal Warfare: The RANCH HAND Project in Vietnam	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Written by one who sprayed.	Paul Cecil's history of the Ranch Hand Program in Vietnam is invaluable for understanding why the US engaged in herbicidal warfare in the conflict.<br />The author breifly presents the history of US CW spraying and  herbicidal warefare (chemical only), then follows this with a lengthy  detail of Vietnam spray operations.  The book is invaluable in  understanding the tactical challenges of spray operations, and the  techniques devised from these experiences.  While I enjoyed the book  thourghly for the authors wealth of knowledge on aerial spraying, most  readers will be disappointed in its lack of development of the  personalities involved, and it rather dry context.<br />Nonetheless, no  history of US herbicidal warfare would be complete without reading this  book.  The author points to the combat effectiveness of herbicidal warfare,  the strong demand for it by field commanders, and the mistakes made by  analysts at the time that were critical of the program (such as not even  looking at the operational field data!).<br />The author points to the early  effectiveness of anti-crop operations, but their eventual failure due to  misuse by GVN planners to punish villegers and not allocating moneys for  relocation.  Also details the failures of the forest burning  operations.<br />The author does describe how Ranch Hand pilots received more  than 1,000x the exposure to Agent Orange than troops on the ground, and  that they did not have any ill effects decades later (epidemeological  study).  Also that Agent Orange (or Purple) had to be reapplied on a  regular basis to maintain defoliation, as vegetation quickly grew back.	2000-01-05
US	51396562	R34PIGCGGFOMQ1	3805563264	696641320	Skin Barrier: Principles of Percutaneous Absorption	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Recommended Reading by nervegas.com	For anyone concerned with the mechanisms of percutaneous skin absorption...this book is a complete reference.  Other books on the topic assume that the reader is already in the field of research, and well  informed on the pharmocolgy.  Skin Barrier is an excellent primer and  reference on the function of this organ, and delivery of substances through  it.<br />The first couple of chapters discuss in detail the anatomical  structure of the skin.  The detail is beyond anything found in an anotomy  book, and is essential information for understanding percutaneous  absorption.<br />There is a chapter that details the pharmokinetics of skin  absorption.  This is excellent reading for understanding the concepts and  terms used in research (ie J Flux, etc).<br />Later chapters discuss the  differences between 'in vitro' and 'in vivo' experiments, and extrapolating  animal models to humans.  The emphasis is on pharmacology and consumer  hygiene.<br />To a lesser extent, skin penetrator enhansors (ie DMSO, azones,  etc) and environmental toxicology are discussed.	2000-01-04
US	51396562	R4QF7KA1DTA3I	0856260924	800120065	Smallpox: Cholera	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Practical Guide to controling Smallpox and Cholera	This is actually two books in one:  Smallpox, Cholera.  Both are practical for field medicine and control efforts.<br />This book represents the last practical knowledge for treating Smallpox casualties.  It was written  towards the termination of the Smallpox Eradication Program (SEP).  Details  practical laboratory diagnosis, casualty treatment and convalescence,  control efforts, and technical features of the poxviridea (ie dose).  It  represents the state of knowledge for treating smallpox casualties from  experienced physicians.  This knowledge does not exist today, as no known  Smallpox casualties have existed since about 1977.  This is an important  text in terms of BW, as Smallpox (and related agents such as monkeypox),  had been weaponized by the former Soviet Union, and this technology had  been successfully transfered to many of its client States (ie North Korea,  China, Iraq).  The possibility that Smallpox could be reintroduced does  exist, and in such a case...this book should be consulted.<br />The Cholera  section is also practical, but has been reproduced by many other authers  with similar medical experience.  Cholera is still prevallent throughout  the world today, and has been made a near non-event by rehydration therapy,  which has reduced the case fatality rate to under 1%.	2000-01-04
US	51396562	R3MZKD1A0EDBYC	0195059107	880777690	001: Biology of Ticks: Volume 1	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Wonderful sourcebook on tick biology and disease survey	The book goes into detailed discussions of the internal structure of ticks, and a general overview of taxonomy.  Cultivation of ticks is covered in one chapter (laboratory scale...general discription).  Also describes  Tick questing behavior, and strategies for elimination.  Vol 2 covers a  wide range of Tick Transmitted diseases (both human and vetenary), and  toxicosis.  The descriptions of Colorado Tick Fever and Relapsing Fever are  first rate.  While most of the information is presented in an overview  form, the notes point to a vast collection of specialized technical  papers...including one that covers a mathematical treatment of tick density  versus epidemiology rates for R Rickettsii.	1999-04-16
