US	51401956	RFFWCQXBGFL0R	025328029X	97749570	The American Way of War: A History of United States Military Strategy and Policy	Books	4	52	56	N	N	How a superpower formed its military world-view	This is an excellent work on the development of American military strategy over the years. It will serve both as a standard work of reference, and an excellent read in its own right.<br />The book is at its best on the early Republic and the era from the Civil War to WWI. Later chapters are slightly weaker, possibly becase there is a plethora of books on the run-up to WWII, the conflict itself and its aftermath.<br />What is fascinating is watching the evolution of a nation deeply suspicious of a standing army (something inherited both from the British tradition, and from the experience of the Revolution), and looking for quick and easy solutions ro defend its seaborne commerce. In fact, Thomas Jefferson bleieved in strong coastal defences, and small ships equipped to defend ports. This was a disastrous strategy which misfired in the War of 1812. The British showed that command of the sea was command of the coast -such an invader could pick his spot for a landing, and proceed.<BR>The North itself used this strategy in the Civil War.<br />For many years, Indian fighting was the main occupation of the army, usually supplemented by local volunteers. However, the foundation of West Point led to a significant improvement in that a cadre of trained officers were now available. In the Civil War, most of the high command (and one of the Presidents) were West-Point trained, and performed well (with exceptions) as tacticians and strategists compared with European contemporaries.<br />In Weigley's view (and I disagree with him slightly) Grant and Sherman emerge as the two best military strategists of the Civil War period. My only cavil is that he possibly is too hard on Grant, crediting him with a mistaken emphasis on mass and concentration that led to the bloody battles in Virginia (1864 - Wilderness, Spotsylvania and Cold Harbor) which bled the Confederates white but also severely mauled Grant's own army.<br />True, Sherman had an instinctive grasp of the turning movement and the destruction of enemy resources as a strategy of attrition. But he learned this from Grant, and Grant's own aberrant attacking mode lasted only three months, thereafter he also went back to turning movements. In fact, his crossing of the James after Cold Harbor was probably the boldest and most effective stroke of the war (better even than Vicksburg) but went unrewarded due to poor execution by his subordinates. Some of this was Grant's as his senior generals were exhausted after three month's hard fighting, but one wonders what would have happened if Phil Sheridan had been in command of the lead corps and taken Petersburg in July 1864. Richmond would surely have fallen, leaving the Confederacy facing into a bleak winter without Atlanta or Richmond. <br />Weigley rightly traces the influcence of Grant in the approach of the Americans to WWII strategy and defends Eisenhower against the charge that he had backed away from this strategy rather than give the British the lead role in the advance on Germany.<br />The naval counterpart to Grant was Alfred Thayer Mahan, and one of the best chapters in the book is the description of Mahan's influence on naval Pacific strategy before and during WWII.<br />I am now reaching the end of the book, and it badly needs a revision to take account of post-Cold War events. Hopefully, Weigley might do this - after the Gulf War and Sept 11, there would be a ready market for such a work.<br />Weigley is a great writer on military history - his 'Age of Battles' is about Pre-napoleonic warfare, and is possibly a better book this one. I recommedn both books.	2002-03-28
US	51401956	R1SWBYVNV9XVZ5	0684808196	280599935	Pillar of Fire: America in the King Years 1963-65	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Through the Wilderness ...	I loved 'Parting the Waters' so much that I was not surprised to be somewhat disappointed by its successor. I suppose that Branch just could not bring off the heroic drama of his earlier book. However, let it be said straight away, that on its own this stands as a worthy book on the fight against segregration from 1963 to 1965, encompassing roughly the years from the March on Washington to after the 'Freedom Summer' in Mississippi and the Selma confrontation in Alabama.<br />On the minus side, I found the early chapters downright confusing. Several incidents overlap with the earlier book, so that there is some duplication, and repetition. In some cases detail seemed over-elaborate, in others matters seemed to skip along in cursory fashion. <br />However, the chapters on the Freedom Summer and the Selma conflict are up to the standard of 'Parting the Waters'. Unfortunately, this begins halfway through the book, and it was only then I felt the same fascination with the earlier work.<br />Narrative history has its problems - the writer convering a large subject must capture the epic sweep, while also the flavour of individual experience. Branch captured this magnificently in 'Parting'.<br />In particularly, the student of the SNCC together with Bob Moses are fascinating. King (and this was an issue I had with the earlier work) is a protagonist without any analysis - his character and achievements are taken for granted, so as a biographical assessment of a life, Branch is not adequate. However, I like the way 'villains' like J.Edgar Hoover did get their point of view, though in the case of this man, does anyone now see him as a colossus of law-enforcement, as his contemporaries did? A heavy hint of voyeurism arises from his obsession with King's sex life.<br />All told, worth buying and worth reading, and we await with eager expectation the next volume.	2002-03-19
US	51401956	R1LHX24OEL078S	0393049949	762531115	Hitler: 1936-1945 Nemesis	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The Hitler biography for this generation.	Was he great? asked Joachim Fest in his own Hitler biography. Fest allowed Hitler a 'botched greatness', a sort of monstrous parody of what we expect greatness to be. Other writers have given depth to this portrayal - John Keegan called Hitler's leadership style 'False Heroic', in contrast to the 'Heroic' Alexander the Great, the 'Unheroic' Welllington and the 'Anti-Heroic' Ulysses S. Grant.<br />As far as I can see Kershaw does not contradict the Bullock or Fest biographies, rather he complements them, and further explains the malignant 'working towards the Fuhrer' by which Hitler's will rather than his spoken orders were carried out. Kershasw gives an in-depth description of the chaotic Third Reich in which Hitler became the spider in a vast web of intrigue, in-fighting and betrayal. Out of this nexus grew the Final Solution and the Second World War, two of the most fateful events that ever befell the human race.<br />Kershaw has been critised in not giving more credence to Hitler's 'military genius'. It has been pointed out that the portrait of 'Hitler the military blunderer' is a self serving one painted by his generals who liked to talk as if they were prevented from winning the war by the mistakes of a rank amateur.<br />True, Hitler was not the clumsy blunderer of legend who by accident won a war against France, and by sheer guile almost pulled off the defeat of the Soviet Union. Yet, his successes can also be exaggerated. While there will always be arguments about the success (or otherwise) of Barbarossa, yet by Christmas 1941, it was clear that Barbarossa has been no more successful than the Schlieffen Plan of 1914. Yet Germany persisted in the same course as it had then, struggling against lengthening odds until final defeat.<br />Similarly, all his diplomatic and political victories were against weak opposition - Hugenberg, von Papen, Dollfuss, Chamberlain, Daladier, the hapless Hacha, even Benes, were not of the calibre of Stalin, Churchill and Roosevelt. Yet Hitler behaved as if they were. For all his emphasis on 'will', his own will failed him in 1940 during the critical struggle with Churchill, on which so much turned (This was recently given a brilliant analysis in John Lukacs' 'Five Days in London').<br />Hence I think Kershaw's portrayal of Hitler is accurate - for example, he gives Hitler the credit for saving the German army in the winter of 1941 when a precipitate retreat might have turned into a rout. However, if the Germans had been forced to withdraw closer to their borders, they would have been able to repel the Red Army for quite a long time.<br />Hitler's style was therefore richly suited for circumstances which were in his favour. Failing that, he made mistakes, and his emphasis on his 'will' only compounded his errors.Let me add there is little comfort here for those English 'revisionist' historians who argue that Churchill betrayed Britain's interests by not making a deal with the Nazis in 1940. They fail to say which part of the British Empire (whose existence they praise) should have been given up to placate Hitler and his allies (Suez or Egypt to Italy or Vichy France, perhaps, or Gibraltar to Spain?)<br />For a brave and decorated soldier, Hitler's degeneration into the 'false heroic' leader is surprising and, for those who served with him, unexpected. Once, he had the blinds of his carriage pulled down so he would not see wounded German soldiers in an adjacent train. Compare that with Alexander, whose veterans filed past his bed with a last goodbye and whom the dying King acknowledged with a movement of his eyes. Or compare it to Wellington, his duty done, dying honoured among his countrymen. Or Napoleon in lonely dignity in his exile. Or Ulysses Grant, struggling with cancer to finish his autobiography so as to leave his family free of crippling debt.<br />One can only say that Hitler received the end he deserved - -hidden in a deep bunker he took his own life in manner that had no dignity or honour.	2002-03-12
US	51401956	R1SD4DT272SFKY	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	3	4	N	N	America's First Family - the Adams' of Braintree	This is more than just a biography of John Adams, a great man in his own right, it is also a family history of his wife, and of his children in their early years. His wife, Abigail, and his son John Quincy Adams are fascinating characters in their own right. By use of the family leters, McCullough builds a riveting story of this prominent family in the heroic days of the American Revolution.<br />Like all families of that age, the family knew tragedy - a baby daughter died, their beloved daughter Abigail (Nabby) died of breat cancer, another much-loved son Charles turned out to be a spendthrift and alcoholic and died young. Possibly the worst shock of John Adams's life was to learn of his son's betrayal of his own wife and children.<br />John's pride was in his own eldest John Quincy Adams, 6th President of the United States, something which John Snr lived to see.<br />Someone, the two Adams Presidents never got their due from history - until now. John Snr was overshadowed by Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton, John Quincy by Andrew Jackson and Henry Clay. A new biography which does justice to John Quincy is called for.<br />John Adams has somehow got the unfair tag 'loser' attached to him. The main fact is that he was the first Vice-President, and the second President, the first one to fail re-election. Yet, after George Washington, he was one of the 'indispensable men' of the Revolution, along with Jefferson and Franklin. True, he was cantankerous, proud and quick to take offence. But he was also the most modest of men, and unsparing of himself. His leadership style was to pick the best man for the job - hence his proposal of Washington for the job of Army commander (surely the most vital single proposal of the era), and his presuasion of Jefferson into writing the Declaration of Independence. Adams was also the one who argued for the Declaration in the Continental Congress.'He rose us in our seats' Jefferson said later.<br />Later, when the two became friends in Paris, Jefferson wrote to Madison (something like - I cannot exactly recall the words) \\"If you become acquainted with Mr Adams, you cannot fail to love him\\". The reader experiences something like this during the book, which covers the full career of John Adams.<br />If Jefferson was the soul of the Revolution, in some way Adams was the heart. A devout and plain-spoken New Englander, he embodied the radical Puritan spirit better than the planters Jefferson and Washington. Yet he was attacked as a 'monarchist' or 'monocrat' for his Federalist principles during his Presidency. He also at this time fell out with Jefferson, but the book follows closely the ups and downs in the relationship between the two men over the years.<br />That the American Revolution, almost uniquely, did not 'devour its children' is due in large part to Adams, who steered a moderate course between the Republicans of Jefferson and the High Federalists during his Presidency. The peace with France that followed the undeclared war between the countries was his triumph. <br />Following his Presidency, the 1800 Election was possibly the most crucial one in American history - it was at this time that the first opposition party was to take power legally, and the young American institutions were put to the test. As pointed out recently, by Henry Jaffa, the realisation dawned that factional parties did not necessarily mean civil strife, as long as certain rules were followed.<br />While Adams seemed to be a preennnial 'second' in politics, he has an impressive list of firsts - first President to live in the White House, first accredited Ambassador of the United States (to the Netherlands), first President to father a President,first Ambassador to Great Britain (as later were both his son and grand-son). Already mentioned was the way he marked both Washington and Jefferson for great tasks, another inspired appointment was John Marshall as Chief Justice of the United States. <br />Adams was certainly alesser President that Jefferson, the man to which he is most often compared and contrasted. Jefferson ranks with Washington, but also with Lincoln and Roosevelt. Like these last two, Jefferson was not only a supreme party politician, hy also had the facility of being able to articulate the aspirations of his followers - possibly better than they could themselves. He could understand and empathise with the common man in a way Adams never could.<br />However, after reading this book, I think John Adams was altogether a better man, in sense of an all-rounded individual.<BR>I urge you to read and judge for yourself.	2002-03-05
US	51401956	R2CS9DXRE9UKE	0198204264	661613664	Defending Ireland: The Irish State and Its Enemies since 1922	Books	4	2	6	N	N	The Problems of the Successor State ...	O'Halpin's work is in one part a sequel to Charles Townsend's 'Political Violence in Ireland' which dealt with the problems of subversion faced by the British-Irish state up to 1922. It is striking how the successor Irish Free State (a.k.a. Eire) and the Republic of Ireland (after 1948) faced similar problems, but came up with more successful solutions. At a mimimum, the successor states were not faced with the problems of legitimacy faced by the predecessor. Northern Ireland is seen as one of the problems, rather than as a area of research in its own right.<br />The IRA was the main internal problem, and O'Halpin comments on the strength of Governmental repression, particularly during the years of the Second World War, when the IRA sought to involve the state with the Nazi cause. However, the Irish Government, as if embarrassed by its imprisionment of self-styled rebels, always seemed to soften as the danger passed. Thus, callous murderers, if they escaped hanging, get amnesty, and Government caution about its sources means it does not publicise the full facts. Thus, how the IRA betrayed Ireland to the Nazis was never fully exposed to the Irish people, allowing later Republicans to present themselves as well-meaning and maligned idealists. The effective Irish intelligence work during the War is one of the most interesting parts of the book.<br />A more recent example of Irish Government reticence is the extent to which it co-operated with the Northern RUC and British Army, and (the opposite) how it sometimes tried to manage terrorist violence for its own ends. The Arms Trial of 1970 is one example, a more recent one is the Omagh bombing where it is suspected that terrorist suspects were released in exchange for a 'cease-fire'.<br />O'Halpin's book is at its most effective at attacking the sacred cow of 'Irish neutrality', a unique Irish belief that such a stance makes us morally superior to the rest of the world. The fact that Ireland refused sanctuary to the Jewsin the 1930s, and happily sold beef to any brutal third world dictator (e.g. Saddam Hussein, Colonel Ghaddafi) willing to pay is not germane in the Irish mind. The book exposes the hypocrisy by showing that the Irish governments calculated on NATO (or British) protection in the event of an attack, yet were also willing to posture as neutral, and spend only limited amounts on their own defence. Better that British or American boys die in our defence than risking our own.<br />One cause of this is the roots of the state itelf which almost succumbed to a military revolt at its inception. Hence the armed forces are kept small and starved of resources, with reliance on the police for anti-subversion work, except during the WWII<br />A recommended book on Irish history from a unique angle, worthy of a slow and considered read, even if the presentation is somewhat pedestrian at times.	2002-02-25
US	51401956	R38Y5ATBYMBU5Z	0385500521	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise of Western Power	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Thought-provoking and stimulating	....P>Hanson makes a few mistakes - for instance he has an irritating habit of accepting without question all the assertions of the ancient historians. I would doubt that Xerxes' army was as large as Herodotus asserts, and the description of Alexander's general Parmenio accepts him as the 'fall-guy' to highlight the genius of the King. Similarly, the Roman army had abandoned the Legionary system by the 4th centtury BC and the army that was defeated at Adrianople was 25% cavalry in an excellent 'combined arms' army of heavy and light infantry, and heavy and light cavalry. The battle was lost not because of the legionary system, but because of Valens' stupid decision to march eight miles and attack the Gothic wagon laager with a tired and dehydrated force, without keeping reserves to keep the effective Gothic cavalty in check. Valens was at the end of a victorious season's campaigning against the Goths and if he had waited for the army of the Western Empire to arrive, he could have easily have defeated the Goths and saved the Empire.<br />However, this does ilustrate one of Hanson's major points - Western defeats are mainly die to egregious tactical errors and arrogance on the part of Western commanders.Isandlwana was one he mentions, though a TV programme I saw recently asserted that an eclipse of the sun during the battle was another reason for the British defeat and slaughter. One he does not menion is Nicopolis (1399), described in Tuchman's book 'A Distant Mirror'. Here an army composed of the flower of French and Hungarian chivalry was disastrously defeated by the Ottoman Sultan Bayazet. Fortunately for the West, Bayezet was soon afterwards defeated and slain by the Turkish Timurlane. True, there was the usual blind assault by the French mounted knights (as at Crecy and Agincourt) but it was a 'luckly escape' for the West.<br />One also feels that Hanson could have chosen better examples. Israel, for example, seems to me to be almost the paradigmatic example ofhis case, but gets only a passing mention. Lepanto is not a great example, as he himself points out briefly, the future of sea warfare lay with the British galleons that were to defeat the Spanish Armada, not the galleys and galleasses of the Venetians. I suppose Hanson wants to point out the rare examples of successful capitalism among Catholic countries of the Mediterranean before primacy was won by the Dutch, English, Germans and French.<br />The most difficult counter-argument if the fact that many autocratic Western states ahve also had very successful armies - the best example being Germany and the USSR in the 1940-45 period. I agree with Hanson here - he uses the example of Alexander the Great to show that a bloodthirsty tyrant can twist the ideals of the West to suit his own ends, but in the long run his system or empire will suffer the fate of non-Western autocracies. Therefore Stalin was the most victorious Communist leader in history, yet his Empire only surivied forty years after his death. Alexander's successors eventually succumbed to Rome. <br />Hanson does play up too much the democratic pretensions of Greece and Rome. He criticises Athens for its disastour attack on Syracuse, but its slaughter of the inhabitants of the island of Melos gets only a mention.At the Teutoberg Forest, where the German tribal chief Arminius defeated three Roman legions, was probably as important in prpecerving Western liberty was Salamis. Augustus (the Roman Emperor) was a despot, Arminius was a leader who had to maintain his following by personal magnetism i.e. there was an element of choice in following him. Ironically, Arminius was later slain by his own family when his orders became too autocratic for their tastes. We underestimate the debt representative democracy owes to the 'tribal councils' of Germanic and Celtic tribes.<br />Hanson's arguments are rich and complex - this is not (as I feared it would be) another 'greatest battles' list. Not all can be accepted - for example diseases like small pox had a greater impact on the conquest of the New World than Hanson admits. The first explorer of the Amazon basin (Orellana) found city after city (not stone, but wood) with millions of inhabitants. The second explorers found only empty habitations. The same is true for explorers of the Mississippi basin. If there populations had been resistant to white man's diseases, there might today be an Amerindian Afghanistan or Ethiopia in the Andes or the Rockies, as indeed an Inca kingdom (Vilcabamba) did survive for many years.<br />He also overestimates Western tradition of giving battle - alternative strategies are what Archer Jones calls a 'logistics strategy' where the enemy is deprived of food and supplies. For example, the Plains Indians were as much defeated by the wiping out of the buffalo as by battle.<br />In the end, I could only partially agree with Hanson's gloomy diagnosis that what we have to fear in not China or Islam, but another inter-Western 'Civil War' as ruinous as the Second World War. Even the EU as a whole cannot match the US military budget, and there is no flashpoint where their interests clash, though there is a gap opening up just now over Israel and Palestinians. However, the alliance survived Vietnam which Europe (West and East) uniformly opposed.<br />After September 11th, he may prefer to re-write this last chapter to take account of a terroristic strategy that might lead on to a logistics strategy of depriving the West of its oil. There is also the possibity of a terrorist group obtaiing weapons of mass destruction - something he discounts too glibly.<br />All in all, a graetr read, highly reccommended.	2002-02-11
US	51401956	RIV3NJKZ48D5C	0674004892	867284825	Economic Sentiments: Adam Smith, Condorcet, and the Enlightenment	Books	4	20	21	N	N	A new look at some old whipping boys	First, a romantic note - Rothschild dedicates this book to her husband Amartya Sen, and Sen dedicated his last book ('Development as Freedom') to her. So these books will lie side by side on my shelf. Both are well worth reading.<br />There is more than just a familial connection. Sen clearly used his wife's research on Smith and Condorcet in the writing of 'Development as Freedom' since the Adam Smith that appears in his book is not the cold and callous economist of myth. One suspects that Rothschild's perception of Smith and Condorcet had been coloured by Sen as she presents them as more than just economists as we understand the term, but concerned with a far wider range of phenomena in politics and sociology. In fact they were exactly as much an 'economist' as Sen himself is. As any reader of Sen knows, he covers an extremely broad range of factors in his work, not just GDP and income.<br />Rothschild argues that Smith's example of the 'invisible hand' that regulates free markets would have as easily been meant as a malign as a benign regulator. Traders who influence markets by bribery or trickery are as much an 'invisible hand' as an imagined self-regulating mechanism. In fact, the beneficient invisible hand was very much a product of later economists. Smith was not as negative on government regulation as he was made out to be by later writers, though strongly against price-fixing by government fiat, guilds which prevented fair competition, and over-zealous regulation of trade and commerce by insiders, profiteers and parasites.<br />Condorcet comes across as a very attractive human being, passionate and commited to his beliefs. Accused of Utopianism, he struggled with his conviction that he had no right to dictate opinion to others. Yet he believed that his liberal philosophy was best.He was concerned with the 'ordinary man in the street', and rejected any idea that he/ she should be indoctrinated with the 'right' ideas by a state-supported educational system. He wrote for the rights of women, believing that all humanity were entitled to equal rights.<br />I have to say the book is dense and quite difficult at times. However, it is the ideas that are difficult, not the presentation. It will probably repay a second reading.But I feel after reading this that I have had an excellent introduction to two first-class and important (in a world-historical sense) intellects.	2002-01-24
US	51401956	R80V1N730TK7F	0847699528	774582985	A New Birth of Freedom: Abraham Lincoln and the Coming of the Civil War	Books	5	33	38	N	N	The Principles of Abraham Lincoln	This book enthralled me. It is rich in ideas and examples, as befitting a book on a subject of this magnitude. It is an extended reply that Lincoln would have given if asked &quot;What are your principles, Mr Lincoln?&quot; <br />I critised David Donald's biography for presenting Lincoln as too much the slick/ sly lawyer and politican - all fox and no hedgehog (to use Isaiah Berlin's metaphor). This is Lincoln the man of principle, and is an essential complement to any synoptic biography, of which Donald's is probably the best.<br />Jaffa argues convincingly that Lincoln was 'at one' with Jefferson and the Founders. Lincoln always argued that the <BR>Founders were ashamed of slavery and hid it away as 'a wen, or cancer' in the constitution. They looked to elimination of slavery over time, but slavery became economically essential to the Old South. Jefferson's foreboding was correct and slavery contributed to the break-up of the Union. Jafa effectively re-iterates Lincoln's criticism's of Calhoun and Stephen Douglas, and the defence of the Confederacy made by Alexander Stephens and Jefferson Davis.<br />For me, what struck most was the emphasis on the principles of Moderation and Prudence, the 'better angels' of Lincoln's inaugaural. Or to quote Churchill &quot;Jaw-jaw is better than war-war&quot;. <br />It is clear that if you accept the Declaration of Independence (as Lincoln did) then the only people with the Right of Rebellion in 1861 were the slaves. Why did Lincoln not then support John Brown? Because he knew that slavery could only be ended with the whole-hearted support of the white population under a united government, not by rebellion. Moderation and Prudence demanded that he could not issue any Emancipation Proclamation, or arm black soldiers, until the Border States were safely retained in the Union. Hence he resisted the clamour from the abolitionists until he could safely move forward.<br />Lincoln once said something like &quot;For a tall fellow, I ampretty sure-footed&quot;. He was never more sure-footed than when he moved around these thorny issues, and the consequences of a slip were never more dangerous!<br />Let no one think that these are dusty old issues - they inform me at the moment contemplating the future of the European Union. For the EU seems to be to be based soldily on Calhounite pinciples - it is the compact of States that Calhoun always claimed the USA to be. Calhounite principles were behind Wilsonian Liberalism that every minority had the right to its own state, or at least an autonomy with in a state. <br />Jaffa makes me think that this is a trap for the EU and inevitably it will become a nightmare of minority vetoes, minority quotas and stagnation. What is must become is a compact of peoples - but will the large (and small states) of the EU let that happen?	2002-01-10
US	51401956	R1OVGGV5C1192J	1879371626	599805840	Case Closed	Books	5	12	27	N	N	Case Closed with a Vengance!	This book made me angry that the liar and defamer Jim Garrison got turned into a hero by Oliver Stone. Garrison's case against the New Orleans 'conspirators' was pure fabrication from start to finish. He was a schemer (and not a very bright one) on the make, however he was smart enough to fool Stone, which does not say much for the intelligence of Hollywood film directors. Posner takes on the conspiracy-theory industry (if you include Stone, that a multi-million dollar establishment with quite a bit of power) and demolishes it convincingly. The negative reviews I have read here on the net are carping and nit-picking. Posner has NOT been refuted, even though the book is 9 years since publication.<br />'Case Closed' is more than just a dry review of the facts, it will well-paced and balanced, the writing is excellent. Don't think just because it is taking the negative side of the argument, that it does not present the best written story of that tragic day in Dallas. Not only does it make a first-class case, and is a classic of investigative journalism, but it a 'rattling great read' as well - as good as any thriller!	2002-01-10
US	51401956	R1Z7W4X835KZZJ	0066212448	302174200	Wittgenstein's Poker: The Story of a Ten-Minute Argument Between Two Great Philosophers	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Clash of Titans	Compare it to the famous debate on evolution at the British Association meeting in Oxford in 1860 between Darwinists and their opponents like the palaeontologist Robert Owen and Bishop 'Soapy Sam' Wilberforce. There, T.H.Huxley ('Darwin's Bulldog') baldly stated that he would rather be descended from an ape than from a Bishop who made specious and rediculous arguments. This sally (very daring in 1860!) won the crowd, and established Huxley as the hero who had vanquished the foe and established the hegemony of Darwinism, agnosticism and science over intellectual life. Except that more recent investigation has found the truth to be a little different. Huxley's speech, besides the 'ape/ Bishop' riposte, was not particularly convincing, and at least one Darwinist was heard to say afterwards 'The Bishop got the best of it'. The really forceful speaker who established the Evolution argument at Oxford was Darwin's friend, the botanist Thomas Hooker. <br />What does this tell us about the subject of this book? That myth is established in memory of what we wish had happened. Because of Huxley's smart retort, then he had to be the hero, and Hooker was forgotten. According to Edmonds and Eidenow, Popper in his memoirs cast himself in the Huxley role, witty riposte and all. But for the memory of one man (Peter Geach, who wrote to the TLS on the matter), we might still live with this particular myth. <br />The intellectual road to Room H3 is well explored in this book, managing to take in the key philosophical threads of the early part of the century - mainly the shift from epistemology to logic, and the focus on language established by Wittgenstein. Both men are well portrayed as forceful, agressive and (it has to be said) unpleasant debaters. To me, a long-time admirer of Popper, he does comes across with the more attractive human side - he had many close friends who loved him dearly. Wittgenstein seemed to only have disciples, and one feels that the wild exterior somehow wentall the way to the core of the man. What you saw was what you got.<br />One can see that one of the things Popper reacted to was Wittgenstein's prophetic aura and oracular utterances - Popper despised intellectual 'authorities' (except perhaps himself) and deliberately tried to 'down' his opponent. One remark which was not quoted was Rudolf Carnap: &quot;I have learned that the distance funtion is not symmetrical. The distance from me to Popper is much less than the distance from Popper to me.'<br />The authors have produced a tour-de-force which I highly recommend to anyone who is even vaguely interested in philosophy or the history of ideas. My one quibble is: was this as critical to the state of philosophy as the authors make out? Certainly it was not as critical to history or science generally as the BA 1860 debate. Popper may have thought so, but the authors show that the explosive meeting had little effect on the reputations of either man. <br />It is quite amusing that some people purchased this book in expectation of getting a philosopher's guide to playing poker.<BR>I rather think the title contains a little joke of the authors - Wittgenstein uses 'games' as a synomym for 'puzzles' in describing his philosophy, and card games in particular was one of his favourite examples. Does this indicate that the authors lean ever-so-slightly in favour of Witt? Popper, after all, should get equal billing in this heavyweight contest. Read and judge for yourselves.	2002-01-10
US	51401956	R2EZRWLNMGUDE8	0806131888	997650278	Phil Sheridan and His Army	Books	4	19	23	N	N	Little Phil, Indian Fighter or Indian Hater?	Phil Sheridan lacks a worthy biography, but this is the best around. It focuses on the post-Civil War period but ( I think)<br />could have done more to save the General's reputation from that of a 'bigot and Indian hater'.<br />For example, the unfair ascription of the so-called proverb 'The only good Indian is a dead Indian' is not challenged, I wonder when it ever will be. From my own limited research, I have found the first recorded public use of this phrase by a Montana politician in 1868, one year before Sheridan is supposed to have uttered similar words. Further, Sheridan's brother Mike also traces the phrase to Montana, saying 'some fool' ascribed the words to Sheridan. Finally, we only have the hearsay evidence<br />of a single witness (ie someone told someone else who wrote it down), written down 20 years later, that Sheridan used the words at all.<br />There is of course the larger accusation, that whatever Sheridan said, this is how he felt. Hutton effectively refutes that charge, I only wish he had come out and roundly stated it somewhere in the book. Sheridan shared the objectives of his contemporary humanitarian critics - he wanted Indians to settle down on reservations and adopt white ways, or just live of the bounty of the government. Where he differed was how he treated 'hostiles' or recalcritant Indians. Sheridan believed in waging war on the Indians just as he had made war in the Shenandoah Valley - devastate the enemy's resources, limit his power to make war by depriving him of supplies, with the added extra of rounding up families to be taken to where they white soldiers could watch them.<br />In essence, Sheridan was given a dirty job, and did in the only way he knew. But he had no especial hate for the Indians - he was not a Himmler figure, as some have made him out. He was fair to Indians who kept the peace. For example, he adjudicated in a dispute between Indians and cattlemen who had leased reservation land. Despite his personal feeling about development, he came down firmly on the Indian side, and thanks to him, the cattlemen were given 3 months to remove their herds, which humbered hundreds of thousands head of cattle.<br />Sheridan also sponsored early efforts to study Indian lore and customs, and was instrumental in preserving Yellowstone National Park for the nation.<br />In short this man was not a saint. He had glaring defects - for example, he aggressively defended subordinates even when they were in the wrong, he looked after cronies in the Army and outside. But he was totally uncorrupt in a corrupt age (his personal fortune was quite small at the end of his days, even though he could undoubtedly had many opportunities to enrich himself illicitly). Also, one feels that someone who said &quot;If I owned Hell and Texas, I'd live in Hell and rent out Texas&quot; can't be all bad! Right or wrong, he had a certain spirit, that Little Phil!	2002-01-08
US	51401956	RV8ERDPRN28LT	0870493973	750603382	Five Tragic Hours Battle Of Franklin	Books	4	13	16	N	N	The Western Pickett's Charge	General John b. Hood is almost the canonical example of 'promotion to incompetence'. A bold and successful divisional commander under Robert E. Lee turned into a scheming corps commander under Johnston, and then into a reckless, careless, and catastrophic army commander. To be fair to Hood (admittedly, a hard thing to do), he was clearly incapacitated by wounds, pain and laudanum, as well the pangs of unrequited love, added to (perhaps) the need to prove to himself that he was still a whole man. In modern times, I doubt if he would have been let near the front. In the Civil war, there were army commanders with disabilities (the one-armed Howard, on the Union side, was one) but none with the two crippling wounds of Hood (arm and leg). <br />McDonough and Conelly are two historians who began a renaissance in Civil War military studies in the 1970s, and perhaps this has been surpassed by Wiley Sword's more recent work on the Tennessee campaign (&quot;Embrace an Angry Wind: the South's Last Hurrah&quot;), but it is still a masterful study that repays reading.<br />The tragedy of Hood's second last battle is that he had the advice of the Souths best commanders of infantry (Cleburne) and cavalry (Forrest) but ignored their practical suggestions. It was Cleburne's last battle - he was the highlest ranking Confederate general killed at Frankin. You can only feel after reading this (and Sword's) book that he deserved better of his commander.	2001-07-30
US	51401956	RKEVWM4BJMGL6	0071350101	110845085	Process Quality Control: Troubleshooting and Interpretation of Data	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Updated Classic	One of my prize possessions is this book, a copy of the original 1975 edition, signed by Professor Ott himself. <br />When I first got a job in Quality Assusrance, this was one of the books I consulted in my local college library. I soon found it was the best of the lot for its clear explanations, practical examples and sheer readability. When I came back into QA after working in another field, one of the first things I did was procure a copy of the book from a bookfinder - the 2nd hand copy I was delighted to discover also had Ott's signature!<br />It is great to see an updated edition is now on sale and that Ellis Ott's name is not forgotten, for he (as far as I can find out about him) is one of the unsung pioneers of Statistical Process Control. Ott is not longer with us, but the co-authors have sensibly decided to update a classic, rather than starting from scratch. The examples in the older book are as relevant today as they are then.<br />From what I can see, this book sticks to the philosophy of the earlier editions but has modernized its approach in some respects, especially in the notation of Experimental Design and in the use of Excel, which I also remommend as an easy-to-use PC tool. Highly recommended for practitioners of Statistical Process Control.	2001-07-23
US	51401956	R1DJPJ7K0R25UE	0312278357	818561323	Virtual War: Kosovo and Beyond	Books	3	1	3	N	N	War and a liberal conscience	Really a series of sketches of the Kosovo War, followed by a  longer essay giving Ignatieff's thoughts on the development of warfare towards the end of the 20th century. The sketches are good, if lacking the depth of an historical work. The best is his meeting with Aleksha Djilas in Belgrade, a visit which must have caused him some trepidation. More recent events, let it be said, have borne out Ignatieff's analysis - I mean the popular revolt in Serbia, the discovery of mass graves, and the extradition of Milosevic to face trial on war crimes charges(something the author explicitly doubted would ever happen). However, the ongoing events reduce the overall value of the work, and the book must be judged by the value of the final essay. Again, this thesis on 'virtual' war - with managed presentation of events to the public, zero casualties, and high tech weaponry, seems to me to be only true so far in Western, particularly US, war-making, and even there the soldiers are reacting with horror to the prospect of replacing a large army with smaller forces armed with high-tech weaponry. The biggest killer weapon in the world is still the AK47!. The other point is the attrition in high-tech weapons - by the end of the war, NATO was running out of smart bombs. Still, thought provoking, and just about worth the price of the book, if war and politics is your sphere of interest. Otherwise, read Misha Glenny or Tim Judah for events in former Yugoslavia.	2001-07-04
US	51401956	RGBK6K830YT6I	0375705368	427736275	Anglomania: A European Love Affair	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Liberal Coconuts	Like coconuts, Voltaire believed that English free institutions could and should be transplanted everywhere. This has special appeal to Americans who also hold strongly to this belief about their political institutions. Bunuma's book ranges to other Anglophiles up to Isaiah Berlin, taking in other figures like the soured -philes who turned into -phobes like Kaiser Wilhelm and Karl Marx. <br />The book sparks like an intellectual firecracker - varied characters like Voltaire, Alexander Herzen, Nicklaus Pevsner, inhabit the pages. Overall the book will fascinate anybody who might even have just a minor interest in the history of ideas.<br />The book is at his best when covering Bunuma's own experiences and those of his own family - his greandparents were German Jews who moved to England early in the 20th century. These were remarkable people - in the 1930s, they took in 12 Jewish refugee children, yet in 1945 at the first family Christmas after the war, they shared their Christmas meal with two German prisoners-of-war from the local camp. <br />Sadly, examples of forebearance and humanity like this are all too scarce now in a world where violence and brutality seems to be daily celebrated in the mass media. Bunuma's anglophile love of English commonsense and pragmatism leads to fear for the future of English liberalism. In an acute observation, he recalls how the liberal Kingdom of Bavaria became the breeding ground of Nazism.<br />His account of a Tory party conference and the perversion of old English values that went on, is scary. However, personally I feel his fears may not come to pass, since I write after the wipeout of the Tory party in the recent English election (2001). But anyone who has encountered a squad of English football fans on the rampage will know exactly where Bunuma is coming from.<br />As an Irishman, I can relate to Bunuma since his juvenvile favourites of English public schoolboy adventures exactly mirror my own. While recognising English hypocrisy aboout class boundaries and its former exploitative Empire, I can see where British stubborness made the difference between liberty and those who sought to destroy it. For Britain to lose the great tradition of tolerance exemplified by Locke, Burke, Mill and Orwell would be an awful tragedy. Thanks to Bunuma, that may now be much less likely.	2001-06-20
US	51401956	R370OR94AYJJLK	0801492637	66967634	Nations and Nationalism (New Perspectives on the Past)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	The Siren Call of Nationalism	A densely-written and concise book, as befitting Gellner's style, which is not usual in English writing. There is for example, a paucity in examples, unlike (say) Benedict Anderson's &quot;The Imagined Community&quot;, another modern work on nationalism.<br />As an Irishman, I can see that parts of Gellner's thesis does fit Ireland. I can see how Irish Nationalism developed in the last century from the aspirations of working-class and middle-class townsmen adopting a metropolitan culture, and shifting away from their former communal and rural bonds. However, I am less sure that some historical memory did not play any part in this, the struggles of post-Reformation Ireland to maintain some independence from the English crown in the 17th century must have had its own influence. However, the arrival of French Revolutionary ideology at the end of the 18th century set the stage definitely for Nationalism, which at the time allied itself with democracy/ republicanism, possibly because as national communities were majorities in their own territories, these ideologies lent themselves to the nationalist case.<br />This is a facinating subject, and this book is a major contribution.	2001-06-11
US	51401956	R33F3EA5TMDWNH	0300085079	954724686	The Serbs: History, Myth and the Destruction of Yugoslavia, Second Edition (Yale Nota Bene)	Books	4	8	17	N	N	The Resistible Rise of Slobbo	The breakup of Federal States is usually accompanied by violence - take the American Civil War, for example. 20th century empires are no exception - British India and the Soviet Union had there respective ends to the tune of tens of thousands slain. For USSR, remember Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia and Chechnya. For British India, the slaughter of Hindus and Muslims, and transfer of populations. Transfer of populations seems to be a modern phenomenon, probably an outcome of nationalism. <br />Yugoslavia was one of these break-ups that seemed inevitably to drift into conflict. Judah's thesis is (I think) that the Serbs history/ myth of suffering and resistance, lent itself to the rhetoric of ruthless, ambitious individuals who thrust themselves forward at the representatives of 'the nation' and hijacked the political process. In fairness to the Serbs, they come across not as a nation who went Nazi, but who gave themselves over to a Serbian Al Capone. I was inevitably reminded of Brecht's play 'The Resistable Rise of Arturo Ui' based on the (real) attempt of Al Capone to take over the town of Cicero (near Chicago) - a brilliant allegory of Fascism. <br />Not all Serbs fell in behind Milosevic and his mobsters - thousands of JNA men deserted even in the early triumphal days of the war. But this may have had a bad effect in that only the compliant (&quot;only obeying orders&quot;), the stupid and the sadistic were left at the front. It was these men who perpetrated the worst massacres. <br />Judah's history is standard, and a bit boring (&quot;one damn thing after another&quot;), but he is excellent on former Yugoslavia in the days of the war. I was already familar with his articles in NYRB, and the book lived up to his reportage. He was at his best on the shambolic Republica Srpska in Pale, which still exists, though its 'George Washington', Radovan Karadjec is on the run from the War Crimes Tribunal.<br />I would have liked more on Serb nationalism, like an examinationof the theories of Gellner and others. But this may be looking for too much for a book which is relaly straight reportage. The edition I read had a very good summary of the Kosovo war at the end, though it missed out on Milosevic's arrest after a popular Serb revolt against electoral fraud. Whither Serbia now? Hopefully, it can (and the other republics of former Yugoslavia) learn the art of constructive amnesia, leave history (ant myth) aside, and just walk away.<br />I recommend this book as essential reading to understand the Balkans.	2001-06-11
US	51401956	R2XLJJA3M24BBK	0195144589	57541935	The Lincoln Enigma: The Changing Faces of an American Icon	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Belonging to the Ages ...	&quot;Look at me and I'll tell you without blinkin'  this southerner prefers Abraham Lincoln&quot;<br />goes a rap at the start of this book, and it is aimed at those of like mind, southerner or not.<br />A warning - half the book consists of illustrations of Lincolniana so that this is one for the specialist. The Lincoln- seeker should read David Donald's excellent biography before opening this book.<br />That said, does this book tell us anything new about Lincoln? The answer is yes, without being final or definitive. I liked particularly the article on Lincoln and the Constitution, showing that he was not the 'dictator' of Copperhead legend, nor the conscious revolutionary of Garry Wills' 'Lincoln at Gettysburg'. However, did his actions not have revolutionary results?<br />The article on the Lincoln marriage I felt a bit limited, but also a good corrective to the image of Lincoln the hen-pecked husband trapped in a loveless union. 'Mary, Mary, we are elected!&quot; he cried to his wife on arriving home that great day, showing the essential nature of the partnership between them. However, this essay does not use Mariah Vance's remininscences, though written very much later that the 1850s, which show Mary Todd Lincoln as addicted to paregoric (which contained opium) and subject to alternating fits of drugged lassitiude, and withdrawal-induced sickness. However, even the Vance memoirs (she was the Lincoln's servant) are not entirely negative on Mary Lincoln.<br />Other essays cover the Lincoln youth, his fascination with death, his status as war leader and finally his image in American art. The enigma is somewhat clarified but somehow the enigma, and the continuing fascination, remains.	2001-06-06
US	51401956	R3M583YH3D2S98	0375408819	992222068	The Dark Valley: A Panorama of the 1930s	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Apalling Vista	In 'The Short 20th Century', Eric Hobsbawm argued that the Russian Revolution was the key event of the 20th century, the one from which so much sprang - Fascism, economic planning, the 'great fear' of Marxism. However, a reader of Brendon's book might conclude that the Great Depression was the key event - for example, no Depression no Hitler, no Hitler no WWII .. or at least a different WWII. Brendon's book is a thrilling look at the late 1920s and 1930 - an object lesson for the present, when many countries threw away 19th century liberalism in trade and internal affairs, and adopted tariff barriers and dictatorship.It has to be admitted that liberalism of the old stripe had destroyed itself in the First World War, it was not clear what would take its place - Communism, Fascism, or a new democracy. Indeed, a hard look at the leaders and systems in all the countries leaves one guessing - President Roosevelt probably embodied the future that would emerge from the 20th century, but that was not clear at the time. Even Roosevelt stood helpless and even compliant in the face of racism against Jews and blacks. Brendon sometimes is perhaps too hard on the less-than-brilliant men and women who had to cope with unparallel crises, but he has a shrewd eye for character and the telling anecdote. My favourite was the story that when Lord Halifax, the British Foriegn Secretary, arrived at Berchtesgaden, he mistook Hitler for a footman and was about to hand him his hat and coat until stopped by a desperate whisper from his German oppposite number. Nothing could better sum up the men who led Britain into the war! The craven behaviour of the democracies during the Spanish Civil War throws events in Yugoslavia and Kosovo into a more favourable light - perhaps we have learned from the past, after all, though not as much as we should. A wonderful book, highly recommended.	2001-05-03
US	51401956	R1H5OP9NM4FYQJ	0375708111	458870497	The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Science that is neither naive or ironic	Some years ago science writer John Horgan turned his postmodern laser-beam on modern science. In &quot;The End of Science&quot;, Horgan proclaimed the heroic age was long over, what was left was not worth discovering, or could not be discovered at all. Now science is mainly discouse, a power-structure for scientific elites resting on their Kuhnian paradigms. Top of Horgan's hit-list was string throry and Ed Witten in particular (as well as Karl Popper). String theory was 'naive ironic science' according to Horgan, a game for superbrains. There was no single theory everyone could agree on, Horgan argued, and besides the energy required to demonstrate experimental evidence for string theory was unattainable. <br />I hope Horgan reads Brian Greene's book - it is by no means a response to Horgan, but Greene's enthusiasm shows me that the sceintific spirit is not dead, and that string theory has made real progress since Horgan's book, all led by none other than Ed Witten. A 'second revolution' has occurred demonstrating duality among the different theories, plus other connections. String Theory has made its first prediction that agrees with a classical/ quantum mechanical prediction (Hawking's discovery that Black Holes emit radiation). <br />True, much remains to be done, but his excellent book does not try to fool anyone. However, it demonstrates that string theory and its offshoots are the best candidates yet for a 'Theory of Everything'. Read it, and feel part of the adventure.	2001-03-20
US	51401956	R23KAXT22WY44T	0312876513	882430933	Shadow of the Hegemon (The Shadow Series)	Books	2	11	14	N	N	Has-Bean	I'm afraid after 'Ender's Shadow', this is another descent in quality for the overall Ender series. Besides the inflation (or reflation) of Bean, this tale of war in South-East Asia is pretty stale stuff.<br />It is strange that a science-fiction author who had us riveted at his tale of interstellar war, becomes so trite when trying to adapt to the confines of one small planet. There is no sense of place or culture among the characters and scenes (ranging from Greece to Russia, South Carolina, India and Thailand), merely stuff that sounds as it it was ripped from history books and travelogues. Card's Afterword suggests he is now trying to write 'future history'. If so, that is a disappointing turn for someone who wrote one of the best science fiction books of the last 20 years.<br />As well as the overall writing, Bean just fails to hold the attention as Ender did. Ender lived as a tragic figure, scared child and xenocide in one. Bean, despite his problems, does not attract the same sympathy. For example, Bean's comic remark at the start of Ender's last battle against the Buggers is now 'Bean's analysis' that showed Ender how to win the battle. Sure, so Democritus invented Quantum Mechanics, and Malthus should be credited with Evolution.<br />The novel's main lack is a 'Maguffin' - the expression used by Alfed Hitchcock for the device on which he hung his plots. Card has had some brilliant Maguffins - Earth been saved by child video-gamers, Battle School, Buggers etc. 'Hegemon's' Maguffin is just a tame recycling of what went before in the Ender series - genius kids at war. If you read science fiction to be enthralled by imaginative plots and plot devices, then this book is not for you.	2001-03-12
US	51401956	R16B7FT9NVBYTZ	031286860X	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Pale Shadow	Ender Wiggin made an indelible impression on me when I first read  Card's earlier book. So, sadly and inevitably, to accept Bean as a surrogate Ender (with even greater military skills) just did not work. O.K. its a good novel in its own right but for a lover of the earlier 'Ender's Game' it came as a damp squib. It would be like accepting that all along Stonewall Jackson was a greater general than Lee, or Messena greater than Napoleon, or Ptolemy greater than Alexander. Further, the novel is weakened considerably because you know the secret of 'Ender's Game' from the start, and that the Battle School has a darker purpose than just training military officers by realistic war-gaming. Card pulled off a brilliant coup at the end of 'Ender's Game' when the secret was revealed (I for one had not guessed it) but with that tremendous climax, he destroyed the chance of any sequel that could equal it for drama and tension. So I found the Ender sequels and the development of Ender's character (while good) not equal to the first book, and this one seems to fall again below that standard. So buy it for a good read, but it will not abide in the memory like 'Ender's Game'. Ender Lives!	2001-03-09
US	51401956	RPJ90O65B7Y4Z	0375406425	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Fitting Account of this Great War	It was the fourth largest war in American history in terms of resources mobilised - larger than the Vietnam and Korean Wars, and larger than the Mexican war, the Spanish-American War and the war known as World War I. In actuality, this conflict WAS World War I - operations stretched from the Great Lakes to the Caribbean, from the Ohio River to the Philipines, including many bloody Central European battles between the forces of Prussia, France, Austria and Russia. During this war Britain decisively laid the foundations of her great Indian Empire 'the Jewel in the Crown', even as it laid the foundations for the loss of a greater jewel - what is now the USA. Not since James McPherson's 'Battle Cry of Freedom' has an era been covered so well, or a long series of events been described so compactly, yet with enough detail to maintain interest. Anderson focuses on the 'American Front' though includes vignettes of characters like Frederick the Great  and Lally, the hapless French commander in India. London gets its due attention, where the Churchill-like character of Pitt dominates all. <br />I found the book at its best on the American frontier - some &quot;heroes&quot; like James Wolfe get a come-uppance, old villains like Braddock get their reputations somewhat re-furbished. Inevitably, the comparison is with Parkman, and here I think Anderson wins by his symapthetic depiction of the Indians. The notorious Fort William Henry massacre (depicted by Hollywood in Michael Mann's 'Last of the Mohicans') is desribed fairly and with great understanding. Indians went to war to prove their manhood,to plunder and to take prisoners for ransom. By Andersons descerning eye, the perpetrators lost more by the massacre - the Indians took away prisoners who spread smallpox, the French by trying to stop the massacre (Anderson is fair to Montcalm here) lost support among their Indian allies. Lastly, the massacre of innocent men and women under a flag of truce 'fixed' the image of treacheryon the Indians in North America for centuries afterwards.<br />It is a long read, ending by setting the scene for the American Revolution by depicting the total mis-understanding that existed between metropolis and colonies. Fittingly, George Washington (who, like many others, got his basic military traiing during the war) stands centre stage as the curtain falls.	2001-01-22
US	51401956	R2LF0KD26YYID1	0393048187	452127514	Reflections on a Ravaged Century	Books	4	8	9	N	N	By one who knows ...	Conquest is entitled to be able to kick a bit now that the enemy is down. For a long time, he was almost a lone voice pointing out the iniquities of Marxism, so much the more honour to him now. His is the voice of a rational liberal, albeit a conservative one. He is not beyond refutation in all his arguments, but if we are now to examine 'roads not taken' now that socialism has collapsed, he is worth listening to. His idea of an Union of English-speaking Countries is intriguing, but it is hard to imagine countries like Ireland, focusing on a European identity, or Australia, focusing on Asia, coming together in a meaningful Union with the USA and Great Britain. He does have a point as regards military action - Canada and Ireland have magnificent UN peace-keeping records, and Australia has lately stepped into the role of a regional power in SE Asia. However, Ireland and Australia have large precentages of their population (probably majorities) who prize their differences, as does Canada as regards the USA. There is probably not enough to sustain a political Union, which looks too much like another British attempt to ride on the USA's coat-tails. Nice try. A good book, perhaps it will help the 21st century to be better than the 20th.	2000-11-28
US	51401956	R17LIS0QBLYVCC	0198208065	449675516	The I.R.A. and Its Enemies: Violence and Community in Cork, 1916-1923	Books	5	22	35	N	N	Exploding the myth of 'the lads' ...	'The lads on the hill' was how the local IRA battalion was known in my home area, and the affectionate terms 'the lads' or 'the boys' seems to have been prevalent throughout Ireland for the young guerillas who opposed British Rule in the period 1919-21, and the Irish Free State in 1922-23. This will become the classic work on how the mythos of 'the boys' was built, and as it explains the myth, it also (of course) destroys it. Hart shows it was the communal bonds of extended families, neighbours and parishes that sustained the IRA when repression forced many to leave to leave the movement in the 1918-19 period. The riots and repression by the RIC also gave these men the steel to begin killing 'outgroups' - at first the RIC, then the British Army, later Protestants, 'spies' and 'informers', many innocent. Hart's prose brings home the moral wasteland of many of the guerilla's activities. On both sides IRA and their opponents, Auxiliary policemen and 'Black and Tans' killed without hesitiation or discrimination. Hart could have explained more, I believe, the contradiction between a 'national' struggle, and the small community versus metropolitan air of much of the IRA men's statements at the time. Certainly, the bonds of community were unable to prevent the total victory of the Free State in the Civil War. If anything, this should destroy the smug republican propaganda of 'the IRA were never defeated'. For one thing, the Free State were even an even more implacable foe than the British State, and the ex-servicemen and former labourers who made up the Free State's army (around a core of ex-IRA men)were much more effectively led in a political sense. So the small 'parish republics' of Cork went down before the centralising state. Hart's book is of immense value to those who are interested in Irish history and nationalism generally, but also to the military historian who studies guerilla warfare and why men fight. Highly recommended.	2000-11-27
US	51401956	R3JGL10GQJQTEI	068482535X	799300305	Lincoln	Books	4	17	17	N	N	More fox than hedgehog	If you are looking for a 1-volume biography of Lincoln, then look no farther than this. This book gives a definitive portrait of America's greatest President. I recommend it highly, but have my own 'nits' to pick. This is Lincoln the politician, the 'fox' who has many stratagems rather than the principled 'hedgehog', who has only one big stratagem. James M. McPherson in 'Lincoln and the Second American Revolution' argues explicitly for Lincoln the hedeghog, a picture reinforced by Garry Wills' brilliant 'Lincoln at Gettysburg'. Clearly there were elements of both 'fox' and 'hedgehog' in Lincoln's makeup - a canny politician yet totally devoted to the principles of Declaration of Independence. Where you set the limit of each part of his personality is up to each biographer. Looking at this contemporaries, Stephen Douglas was the typical fox and Jefferson Davis a good example of a political hedgehog, perhaps that is why they both failed. This book, in my view, makes Lincoln too much fox, but it makes an excellent case.  For example, David Douglas seems to think that Lincoln might have diluted his position on slavery somewhat (in his ill-fated 1865 negotiations with Alexander Stephens) in order to end the war some months earlier. This is dubious in that the only witnesses were Confederates, and otherwise Lincoln gave no sign of adopting any position other than support for the 13th Amendment. To push this case makes Lincoln too foxy for my liking. However, a great book - it should join Sandburg on anyones shelves. If anything it is a better book in many ways than Sandburg's as it steers clear of myth, and does not shrink from some of Lincoln's 'warts'.	2000-11-15
US	51401956	R2ZC1414QC41JQ	0805063005	638112257	Isaiah Berlin: A Life	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Isaiah the Prophet	A prophet 'speaks for God' or (more loosely) is a 'truth-teller'. Berlin was a 'truth-teller' in his re-statement of political liberalism in the midst of the 20th century. Berlin was one of many intellectuals transplanted due to the revolutions and upheavals following WWI - he fell in love with England, and became an Oxford don. He might have remained for the rest of his life a little-known figure on the fringe of the 'Oxford philosophy' movement (called 'linguistic analysis') but for three things. One was his Zionism, though it was more the gentle Zionism of Weizmann, than the triumphalist variety of Ben Gurion. Another was the Second World War, where he became a key figure in British diplomacy in Washington, and got to know many New-Dealers. A third (and perhaps the decisive one) was his long stay in Moscow in 1945, where he met the poets Anna Ahkmatova and Boris Pasternak. As a result of this, there grew his fascination with the history of ideas, where he was to make his greatest mark on the intellectual life of the 20th century. Berlin's main thesis is the inconsistency (and opposition) of human ends, and against the theory that all rational human ends must be one. Thus 'Libery, Equality and Fraternity' is a zero-sum game - if you pursue equality, then a dimunition of some (or some people's) liberty is inescapable. This is an excellent biography with a crystal-clear exposition of Berlin's ideas, and a fascinating insight into 'one man's life'.	2000-11-13
US	51401956	R24PVURQ2LBXNU	0375503536	640284327	History of the Present: Essays, Sketches, and Dispatches from Europe in the 1990s	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A survey of a critical decade	I seized upon this book with eager expectation, as I had thoroughly enjoyed the author's essays in New York Review of Books. I was not disappointed as Garton Ash manages to maintain an overview and grasp of the whole, though some of the essays are short and almost ephemeral. His major point I agree with: Europe made a serious error in the early 90's by turning its back on the new democracies to the East, and going after greater integration of the West. The cost was disastrous in the Balkans - a war which might have been averted. Worse, European foreign policy was shown to be a complete sham, as the US (again) had to lead the countries of Europe to end genocide and terror within its confines. The book focusses on Poland, (former) East Germany, Czechoslovakia and Hungary, with forays into the Balkans (mainly former Yugoslavia. There is even a mid-90s meeting with the current President Kostunica of Serbia, when he was leading a small dissident party in protest against Milosovic. The author chronicles the end of Central Europe and the shift of 'the West' to the borders of Belorus and the Ukraine. The ending note is optimistic that Europe can overcome centuries of internecine warfare, and become peaceful and forward-looking. The irony that former communists now democratically lead most of the nations they once oppressed is not lost - 'creative amnesia' is celebrated in these pages. He disagrees with Huntington's clash of civilizations idea (that future conflict will be based on old religious modes of culture) by pointing out how Ruthenians (for example) straddle the Huntington divide. Highly recommended.	2000-11-09
US	51401956	R3VSJ0SAODRHRY	078943511X	783631365	Story of Philosophy	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Might look good on the coffee table ....	I love Brian Magee's books - 'Confessions of a Philosopher', 'Schopenhauer' and 'the Great Philosophers', but I am slightly disappointed with this one - maybe it is the glossy format, or the effort to cram too much into one book. As a starter in philosophy, I would recommend his 'Great Philosphers' - the text of BBC TV discussions he held with modern philosophers (Searle, Nussbaum et al) about a great predecessor from Socrates and Plato to Wittgenstein. You will probably have to use the 'out-of-print' service but it is worth reading, and re-reading and re-reading. I have found this present book to be a handy quick reference work, but there is no attraction that sends me back to it repeatedly, as there is with some of Magee's earlier works.	2000-10-25
US	51401956	RKRJ22EDZ08FT	0404045219	44521931	The Rise of the Dutch Republic: A History (The Writings of John Lothrop Motley, Volume 1)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	History from an age of great writing ...	Today we do not think of historians as creative writers as such, but this is an attitude that has only grown up recently. Winston Churchill won the Nobel Prize for Literature for his historical writing, but it difficult to see any contemporary historian contending for such an honour. The historian's craft is so much seen now as a technical one, 'mastering the sources' is considered to be the summit of achievement in historical writing. Also, the historican has also to master some sociology, political science, and statistics, besides mere writing. Possibly, there is a lot of good in the modern attitude, but we have probably lost in many places, the art of good writing. Motley, like all his contemporaries except perhaps Parkman or Prescott, is not now considered a historian of the first rank. But, by God, the man could write! If you want the best modern account of the birth of the Netherlands as a modern nation state, read Geoffrey Parker's 'The Dutch Revolt'. However, if you enjoy a tale spun around a real-life hero, William the Silent, and how he led an embattled people to freedom, written in the finest prose, then this book is for you. Incidentally, some modern historians do still value the insights of their predecessors, like Macauley in Britain, but are probably their superior in research methodologies and interpretation. For me, in the art of writing, the likes of Motley, Prescott, Parkman, and Macauley are infinitely better!	2000-10-25
US	51401956	R18T9MK1FIA6UY	0252062108	989313246	How the North Won: A Military History of the Civil War	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A coolly realistic appraisal of Confederate defeat ...	Apologists for the Confederacy usually emphasise the difficulties the South faced in building up a nation in the throes of a War of Independence. However, they often minimise the advantages which also accrued to the South. In fact it could be argued that the North faced the much more difficult task of conquering the South, and not only conquering it, but subjugating it thoroughly - something which (for example) the British Empire failed to do with the nascent USA in the 18th century and again with the Boers and Irish at the start of the 20th century. Jones and Hattaway outline the strategy which finally (after some initial stuttering) won the war for the Union. In the process, they rehabilitiate only Grant but Henry Wager Halleck, usually dismissed as a dull bureaucrat, but appearing here as a sound strategist and shrewd selector of subordinates. Hopefully, some enterprising biographer will soon fill out this picture of Halleck. This book was also very important in bringing Grant back into focus as the North's most visionary and most successful general. They point out that the destruction of Confederate logistics, and the preservation of the Norths', ensured Union victory. However, this is more than a dry recitation of dull facts and statistics. It is a full and lively military history also. Highly recommended, and worthy to sit on anyones shelves besides the works of the great historians of the Civil War - McPherson, Foote, Catton, Nevins &amp; Co.	2000-10-24
US	51401956	R1BQQYV1UM793B	0253207150	528829333	The American Civil War and the Origins of Modern Warfare: Ideas, Organization, and Field Command (MIDLAND BOOK)	Books	3	15	18	N	N	One for the specialist ...	I enjoyed this book, but must admit it comes behind Archer Jones, Bruce Catton, Peter Cozzens, Paddy Griffith and the other great historians who have tackled military aspects of the Civil War. It is rather dry, but one can see how the US army became one of the best equipped armies in history with an enormous logistical 'tail' compared to (say) the Russian, Chinese or British armies.  What Hagerman showed for me the falsity of the claim that the Civil War was the first 'modern' war - e.g. while railways were important, away from the railhead, the armies depended on horses and oxen, much as Napoleon did. McClellan does emerge as somewhat of an innovator in his proposal for 'flying columns' living off light rations. Oddly enough, Grant put this experiment to an end when he became commanding General - perhaps he felt that with such hard fighting ahead, it might be unwise to cut the amount and variety of rations. Similarly, while there were innovations in staff organisations (Jackson, for example, make very effective use of his staff), there was no revolution such as was then taking place in the Prussian army. I suppose the Civil War was on the 'cusp' of a military revolution - neither exactly the last of the old wars, not the first of the new. An engaging book, but one for the specialist, I'm afraid.	2000-10-24
US	51401956	R2G5NWCY6489BX	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	5	1	3	N	N	The most accurate Dystopia of them all ...	Of all the great Dystopian novels of the 20th century (others being Orwell's 1984, Zamyatin's We, Bradbury's Fahrenheit 451 for example), this may be the most accurate, if not the greatest. Huxley describes a world based totally on material values, shamelessly hedonistic but also totalitarian in demanding total submission to its ethic. Such a place brain-washes its children and gives its adults large doses of drugs to maintain stability. Into this world, there comes the Savage, who has lived on an Indian reservation all his life. We see the horror of this world through his eyes. Rather improbably (but Huxley makes it seem natural) the Savage knows all of Shakespeare by heart, but the rawness and lyricism of the poetry makes a wonderful counterpoint to the cosiness and mediocrity of the Brave New World, where all pain and ugliness have been banished. A typical episode in the Brave New World is a 'religious' service, with Henry Ford as 'God', which ends in an orgy of sexual release. The Savage falls in love (as opposed to lust, which is the only intimate emotion allowed between men and women), tries to escape, but is ultimately destroyed. Like 1984, Huxley may have made his Dystopia too bleak - apparently there are islands to which dissenters are exiled, and it may be that on these islands, people have managed to combine the materialism of the Brave New World and the primitive spititualism of the Savage. We never find out. However, no one can escape being struck by the similarity of the Brave New World to own - Prozac, daytime TV, dumbing down, test-tube babies all have parallels in Huxley's creation. Read one of the century's great classics.	2000-10-23
US	51401956	RT5I74OH13F3B	0521377412	809226466	Ireland, 1912-1985: Politics and Society	Books	5	15	16	N	N	For Modern Irish History, Start Here ...	It is sad that the most read Irish historian outside Ireland happens to be the Republican fellow-traveller, Tim Pat Coogan. Then, Coogan seems to aim mostly at the Irish-American market. It is sad because Coogan's bias is not widely recognised, whereas if it was, his books would probably be subjected to more than unthinking acceptance. For me, Joe Lee is by far the greater historian, and this work by him beats anything of Coogans into a cocked hat. Not that they disagree overmuch, Lee is also a Nationalist writer, but his judicious weighing of the evidence and his unblinkered and unwavering devotion to historical truth make him by far the better of the two as a writer and a professional historian. One place where they disagree is on the position of De Valera, whom Coogan has dethroned from his former eminence among 'constitutional' Republicans. Lee supplies a far more sympathetic and truthful analysis of 'the Long Fellow'. Another area where American readers may be surprised is the short shrift given to Sean McBride, later a leading light of Amnesty International and a recognised 'jet-set liberal'. However, McBrides interventions in domestic Irish politics were mostly inept and disastrous for this followers and friends. Also for a believer in religious liberty, he was obsequious to the Catholic church in a most apalling fashion. Therefore, read this book to have your expectations challenged, and old opinions undermined. Possibly, the best Irish historical work to emerge from the 20th century, and a book that will be recognised as such.	2000-10-23
US	51401956	R5KMCGB7E5D6H	0195004566	353994617	The Pursuit of the Millennium: Revolutionary Millenarians and Mystical Anarchists of the Middle Ages, Revised and Expanded Edition	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Millennium Bugs	A friend recommended this to me as 'a great read' and I also recommend it to you for the same reason. It is rare that a work can be appreciated for its academic value, and for pure fascination. Who could not but be fascinated by the medieval flagellants, the Taborites, Joachim of Fiore, the Tafurs, the Anabaptists and the Ranters. Some groups awaited the returned of the Emperor Constantine, or Frederick Barbarossa, or even the Duke of Flanders, to herald the last days. Other preached, and practised, Free Love, and community of goods. Startingly, the Anabaptists of Munster (Germany) withstood a lengthy siege for their beliefs, while what was happening inside the walls of the city seemed to prefigure the regime of Stalin. Important to recall the limitations of medieval Catholicism, which drove many into fringe sects, and eventually helped spawn the Reformation. Not that the Protestant princes were any more sympathetic to the Prophets of the Poor. For an academic book, this is also fun to read, though its subject in places in quite grisly.	2000-10-12
US	51401956	R3ACJYA2GZL321	0140088784	876636990	Alexander the Great	Books	5	10	14	N	N	That proud dream that play's so subtly with a king's repose'	'Canst thou, when thou command'st the beggar's knee/ command the health of it?' (Shakespeare, 'Henry V').<br />You could think of him as the young Jedi knight who, spiritually battered by war-wounds and the loss of those he loved, finally gives in to 'the Dark Side'. I re-read this volume recently, and must admit its greatness. Hitherto I had considered the Peter Green biography ('Alexander of Macedon') the  better by far of these two works, now I have to agree that this is almost the equal of the other. However, I still think Green's the better-written book. But Fox's version of Alexander is also plausible - often after presenting exactly the same evidence as Green, but with a different emphasis. This Alexander gets more and more implausible as the book advances - can the Alexander who died in Babylon, after the horrors of the Makran desert (where he lost two-thirds of his army), after the death of the beloved Hephaiston, after suffering multiple wounds (one of which nearly killed him), be the same man who set out energetic and youthful, to engage in games at the site of Troy and go on to recklessly fight the Persians at the Granicus? I do not think so - yet Fox's Alexander seems at the end to be the same 'boy scout' who started the fabulous journey. Did Alexander not confront the indisputable fact that not only could he not conquer the world, but the world is unconquerable?<br />After the incredible victories, after the submission or death of so many eminent men, he still could not save those near him. The dissolution at the end into alcohol and death, seems to me not accidental, but inevitable. A well-researched and well-written biography, if not as lively as Green's, but one which is finely textured and highly enjoyable.	2000-10-11
US	51401956	R3A6LQF91XPET7	0812588525	773117862	Sword At Sunset	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Arthur, Emperor of the British	Rosemary Sutcliffe wrote her books long before 'Lord of the Rings' made sword-and-sorcery popular. Her books are short on the sorcery, but so much the better for that. The concentration is on the imaginative reconstruction of a lost period in the history of civilization. Hence, her books are true historical novels, not  fantasy, and are more intellectually satisfying than most fantasy novels. In this book, the historical Arthur tells his own story from the death of his relative and leader, Ambrosius, to the final deadly battle at Camlann. It is not necessary to have read the prequel &quot;The Lantern Bearers&quot; (a great book in its own right, possibly even better than this). As usual, Sutcliffe succeeds admirably and this reconstruction is true to its own rules, making it a fascinating and difficult-to-put-down novel. Highly recommended.	2000-10-09
US	51401956	R12JP8LPBEX6PI	0374443025	671630191	The Lantern Bearers (The Roman Britain Trilogy)	Books	5	58	59	N	N	Keeping the light ...	Set in the brief Romano-Celtic twilight between the end of the Roman Empire and the creation of Anglo-Saxon Britain, this is the story of Aquila, a Roman soldier who chooses to stay among his adopted people. However, his world crashes to pieces when he and his sister are enslaved by the Saxons, their father slain and their farm destroyed. Aquila eventually escapes, but his sister, now married with a Saxon son, makes her own choice to stay with the invaders. Aquila is embittered and angry, and the remainder of the story is his redemption, helped by a kindly priest, his celtic wife from an arranged maarriage, and the Romano-British leader, Ambrosius, whose friend he becomes. I first read this book in my early teens, and it has stayed with me ever since. The themes of irreparable loss, vengance and redemption are quite adult, but not at such a level that adult or teen cannot appreciate them. Sutcliffe brilliantly captures the heroic twilight of the Dark Ages, and makes it utterly convincing. She also wrote a longer sequel called &quot;Sword at Sunset&quot; (use the out-of-print service) based on the Arthur legends - Aquila appears as a minor (older) character, Arthur appears as a young warrior Artos in &quot;Lantern Bearers&quot;. Both books are highly recommended for adults, &quot;The Lantern Bearers&quot; for teens and adults.	2000-10-09
US	51401956	R855Z1BMGI1YQ	1862070474	952321088	Killing Rage	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Your country or your friend?	&quot;If I had to choose between my country and my friend, I hope I would have the courage to choose my friend&quot; EM Foster. Collins chose the 'siren call' of tribalism, or country, and ending up killing at least one man who could have been his friend. He later hauntingly meets the man's daughter briefly. He admits that his Protestant neighbours had more in common with him than the Southern Nationalists with which he was supposed to be trying to unite. A deeply moving book, that makes one uneasy with what one thought were the certainties of Northern Ireland. One cannot read this book and come away thinking the IRA campaign justified, whatever the grievances suffered in the 1960s by Catholics in Northern Ireland. As good a memoir of a 'dirty war' as 'Despatches' about Vietnam, made worse by happening among Collins' workmates and in his home town.	2000-10-03
US	51401956	R32FD3VF6I8N27	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A parable of the revolution ...	Like the first books of Gulliver's Travels, where Swift's pointed satire on English-French rivalry have been lost in the striking idea of tiny people and giant people, so this allegory of the 'dictatorship of the proletariat' has quite lost its political point against the power of the story. The equation of pigs with the Bolsheviks, the pig Napoleon with Stalin and Snowball with Trotsky is ultimately quite unnecessary to enjoyment of the story - exactly like 'Gulliver's Travels'. Yet the point was not lost on the people of the 1940s, nor on the oppressed people of Eastern Europe and Russia, who read the book in secret. Nor was the point lost on fellow-travellers in the West who made Orwell struggle to have it published. This is the only English book (along with 1984) guaranteed to have been read by every Russian dissident. That in itself is a monument to Orwell. This book will last as long as Swift's, possibly longer.	2000-10-03
US	51401956	R3QG3678OX9CAZ	0873640748	719661750	Handbook For Volunteers Of The Irish Republican Army: Notes On Guerrilla Warfare	Books	1	2	14	N	N	The mindset that gave you Oklahoma City...	The IRA must be the only &quot;army&quot; in history that has killed more of the people it purported to defend than the enemy. I put &quot;army&quot; in inverted commas because the IRA'c claim to the be the &quot;Irish army&quot; is an insult to the army of the Irish Republic, an entity established by the Constitution of the Republic of Ireland, and supported by the rule of law. The Irish people have rejected the IRA time after time , in election after election, yet it continues demanding to ride on our backs year after year. Read this, if you like, to lift a small corner of the veil on a criminal gang where thugs give each other high-sounding titles like 'Brigadier' and &quot;Quartermaster-General&quot; while sending naive young men out to cause needless slaughter. Then read Eamon Collins' &quot;Killing Rage&quot; to find out what the IRA is really about - the naked use of illicit power.	2000-10-03
US	51401956	R1BD5NR5F8IARA	0452262933	337991686	1984	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Striking thirteen ...	One of the great books of the 20th century - it is amazing how much of Orwell has entered the language : Big Brother, Thought Police etc. The story is a bleak one - &quot;Imagine a boot stamping on a human face, forever!&quot;. Orwell intended it as a warning, not as a prophecy. As a warning, it worked - 1984 was read by every Russian dissident, about the only English book (besides Animal Farm) that can make that claim. Yet, the abuse of language described by Orwell, the way thought can be controlled by inculcating poverty of language, in a certain sense describes much of today's media - &quot;dumbing down&quot; actually limits the possible human response - look at the jeers and cheers on 'the Jerry Springer' as pathetic subjects explode their inarticulate rage. The nearest thing to the '5 Minute Hate' that I have ever seen. Yet, Orwell possibly made the warning too bleak (he was dying of TB as he wrote, it was his last book). You feel that while Julia and Winston Smith do ultimately betray each other, yet it was done under duress of torture, and there could possibly be forgiveness in their hearts afterwards, not the disillusion of the book. The power of human love could defeat the Party, perhaps. A book that repays several readings.	2000-10-03
US	51401956	R3DOCJ2ST8YPNR	0873640748	719661750	Handbook For Volunteers Of The Irish Republican Army: Notes On Guerrilla Warfare	Books	1	14	39	N	N	The mindset that gave you Oklahoma City...	The IRA must be the only &quot;army&quot; in history that has killed more of the people it purported to defend than the enemy. I put &quot;army&quot; in inverted commas because the IRA'c claim to the be the &quot;Irish army&quot; is an insult to the army of the Irish Republic, an entity established by the Constitution of the Republic of Ireland, and supported by the rule of law. The Irish people have rejected the IRA time after time , in election after election, yet it continues demanding to ride on our backs year after year. Read this, if you like, to lift a small corner of the veil on a criminal gang where thugs give each other high-sounding titles like 'Brigadier' and &quot;Quartermaster-General&quot; while sending naive young men out to cause needless slaughter. Then read Eamon Collins' &quot;Killing Rage&quot; to find out what the IRA is really about - the naked use of illicit power.	2000-10-03
US	51401956	RQ9IY6O2UFM4X	0451526341	143443619	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A parable of the revolution ...	Like the first books of Gulliver's Travels, where Swift's pointed satire on English-French rivalry have been lost in the striking idea of tiny people and giant people, so this allegory of the 'dictatorship of the proletariat' has quite lost its political point against the power of the story. The equation of pigs with the Bolsheviks, the pig Napoleon with Stalin and Snowball with Trotsky is ultimately quite unnecessary to enjoyment of the story - exactly like 'Gulliver's Travels'. Yet the point was not lost on the people of the 1940s, nor on the oppressed people of Eastern Europe and Russia, who read the book in secret. Nor was the point lost on fellow-travellers in the West who made Orwell struggle to have it published. This is the only English book (along with 1984) guaranteed to have been read by every Russian dissident. That in itself is a monument to Orwell. This book will last as long as Swift's, possibly longer.	2000-10-03
US	51401956	R162Q8NCLXPQ9J	1570980756	378582857	Michael Collins : The Man Who Made Ireland	Books	4	5	10	N	N	The New Charismatic Leader ...?	Irish Nationalism needs charismatic leaders, men who stand like the Founding Fathers in American history (and myth?). De Valera has been Found Out as a Catholic compromiser and (apparently worse) as someone who quietly sacrificed the North to keep a Catholic-Gaelic state in the South (read John Bowman's classic &quot;De Valera and the Ulster Question&quot;). Collins is the obvious next choice. Better still, Collins can stand as an open &quot;Peace Process&quot; man who believed that the 1921 Treaty gave the 'Freedom to achieve Freedom&quot;. What better logic to sell the Good Friday Agreement to recalcitrant republicans ? Though the book was published long before the Agreement, the Peace Process was in the air since the early nineties, and Coogan is well-known for republican sympathies. Even better, Collins conspired with the Northern republicans to subvert the Northern state - so can be sold (again) as an ambiguous figure who did not &quot;betray the North&quot;. De Valera even suspected that this reversal of the historical verdict would come to pass, though his traducing Collins' memory does him little credit. Was Collins &quot;the greatest man in Irish history&quot;. I think the title of this edition completely overblows Collins' role, if fact if anyone made Ireland in the sense meant it was William T. Cosgrave, the first Priomh-Aire (Prime Minister)and then De Valera himself. T.Ryle Dwyer's description of Collins as the 'man who won the war' is far more accurate - but war-winners are not always the best state-makers. Collins' advantages for a heroic pose are manifold - he died before the really nasty decisions had to be taken, and before the cleanup after the Civil War set the tone of the Irish Free State/ Republic of Ireland for generations. Coogan attempts to give the answers, mostly favourable to Collins. But somehow I wonder if Ireland hadn't got the best of Collins before he died. He seems to me to be almost addicted to conspiracy and back-door deals, not exactly the man to build up a democratic state. His nearest European equivalent is Pilsudski of Poland, a dedicated patriot and great soldier, but who eventually became a military dictator. For all that, read this book and judge for yourselves. Read also Coogan's &quot;De Valera: Long Fellow, Long Shadow&quot; which is a companion to this volume.	2000-10-03
US	51401956	R2LZKFBWNVXQI3	0156421178	802050474	Homage to Catalonia	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An unacknowledged masterpiece	The Spanish Civil War was the defining moment of the 1930s for most European intellectuals. The impact of Franco's attempted coup was comparable to the effect of Pearl Harbour on Americans. For the first time, an illegal Fascist attempt to seize power had been stopped in its tracks by an armed working class. For many intellectuals (like the poet W.H. Auden), the brutality and cynicism often displayed of both sides caused them to swear off politics permanently. Orwell was not one of those - however, it opened his eyes to the dangers of Stalinist Communism as well as Fascism. One can see the seeds of '1984' and 'Animal Farm' in the account of the suppression of the Catalan 'Trotskyists'(so-called) by the  Communist-controlled state. This experience made Orwell what he became - a socialist who thought that state-control might solve the problems of poverty, but who feared the tyranny such state-control would bring in its wake. Orwell never seemed to decide which he believed in the more - socialism or intellectual liberty, something which made him describe himself once as a 'Tory Anarchist'. He never came up with a solution to what could be called the key problem of the 20th century, however it is the way he posed the problem that is important. As someone who is the only author in English read by every dissident behind the old Iron Curtain, his place as a defender of freedom is secure. In another sense, this is a great book about the experience of men at war - to me it is as good as any of the memoirs that have come out of Vietnam or World War II like William Herr's 'Despatches' or William Manchester's 'Goodbye, Darkness'. It can be appreciated without understanding the political background at all. Probably among the greatest of Orwell's longer works - its ranks alongside 'Animal Farm' and possibly ahead of '1984'.	2000-10-02
US	51401956	RUNMIRX7IJK9	1853267856	627864010	Njal's Saga (Wordsworth Classics of World Literature)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	North	I live in Ireland, and am mindful that our greatest poet of this generation Seamus Heaney, who has published a collection 'North' influenced by sagas like this one, said 'Read the Norse sagas to understand Northern Ireland'. Here you find the same internecine blood-feuding that has bedevilled part of this island, whether it is a remnant of the Viking Age I do not know. Yet these Norsemen are surprising also devoted to negotiation and peace-making, paying each other fines in lieu of vengance. However, someone always seems to conspire to continue the tradition of blood-vengance. Njal's Saga is comparable to 'King Lear' in the destruction of Njal, fundamentally a man of peace, yet cursed with sons who are the 'fastest guns' in their part of the world. First comes the death of Gunnar, the friend of Njal, and Iceland's greatest warrior, which serves as a long prologue, then into the feud of Njal and Flosi, caused by the jealousy and murder of Njal's foster-son by his foster-brothers. Flosi is the father-in-law of this man, and must seek vengance. Tragically, he is also a man of peace, but ultimately takes the decision to burn Njal and his sons to death in their house, a disgraceful act considered as 'nithing' by the Vikings. It shows how even men of peace can commit the most dreadful acts. But Njal's son-in-law Kari escapes to pursue vengance across the North Atlantic to Ireland. However, the sagas became Christianised and ends in forgiveness with Kari reconciled to Flosi and settled down as his son-in-law. This story never fails to stirs the emotions, like the moment when Bergthora and Njal are offered the chance to live by Flosi (Flosi's quarrel is with Njal's sons) - Njal cannot leave because he is too old to avenge his sons, and Bergthora (who is actually a bitter shrewish woman) says &quot;I was married to Njal as a young girl and swore we would suffer the same fate together&quot;. They go to their bed to suffocate in the fire. The real villains in the sagas are notthe killers, but the mainipulators like Mord in this saga who incites Njal's sons to kill their foster-brother while playing both sides, or Samkel and Otkel the brothers who refuse reconciliation with Gunnar. They are killed by Gunnar, but their deaths leads on to Gunnar's. Hence, Njal's eldest son, the great warrior Skarphedin is also a sympathetic character - if he had some of his father's wisdom, all might have been well. A tragedy of Shakespearean proportions, where great men are trapped by their own weaknesses, told in wonderfully simple language.	2000-10-02
US	51401956	RA4ZY4C1SZHM0	0312187408	492425611	All on Fire: William Lloyd Garrison and the Abolition of Slavery	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The one just man ...	If God had decided to destoy the United States in the 1830s as an iniquitious country, he might have stayed his hand on account of the existence of William Lloyd Garrison. So long derided as a fanatic who spread discontent and brought about the Civil War, Garrison is here re-habilitated as a man dedicated to racial equality and liberty, and even a figure of some pragmatism and moderation. Indeed, he should be praised and elevated by those who profess to see America as 'a shining city on a hill', except that probably their motives are baser than Garrison's. Garrison went so far as to burn the Constitution in public as a 'pact with slavery'. Yet he was always a dedicated pacifist. This is a brilliant biography bringing to life the man and the turbulent era in which he lived. A must for anyone with even a remote interest in antebellum history of the USA, or anyone who likes to become immersed in biography at its best.	2000-10-02
US	51401956	R1D974HC363IEW	0679760237	279143118	In Pharaoh's Army: Memories of the Lost War	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Like a pane of glass ...	'Good prose is like a pane of glass' wrote George Orwell, and it is this aspect of the great English author that this book makes me recall. Not the Orwell of the political essays, or 1984, or Animal Farm, but the Orwell of the personal stories like 'Homage to Catalonia' and 'Down and Out in Paris and London'. Wolff shows how Orwell may have written if stripped of the political baggage. The voice is crystal clear - 'this is what happened' and 'this is how it affected me'. In particular, one Orwellian story 'Shooting an Elephant' could almost serve as a introduction to this book. This is a great book in itself.	2000-09-28
US	51401956	R2V5IWXK16D9KD	0395083664	546782377	The Armada (The American Heritage Library)	Books	5	82	103	N	N	Narrative History at its best ...	No one would write a book about the Armada quite like this again - during  the quadcentenial (1988), the interest seemed to focus on the ships,  armaments and tactics. Mattingley is weak on these,  and if that is your  prime interest, look to Geoffrey Parkers book published in 1988. However,  for narrative force, characterization and political background, Mattingley  has no equals. For me, his account of the Armada, published over 40 years  ago , is still the best by far. The narrative swings from Low Counries, to  Madrid, to Cadiz, to Paris, finally to the Channel and Calais, then back to  France. Mattingley shows that the defeat of the Armada ensured the survival  of the Reformation and (not least) the independent survival of England,  France and the Netherlands. Yet he is even handed at every stage, indeed  Medina-Sidonia (the Armada's commander) is one of the heroes. Other heroes  are Queen Elizabeth, the Duke of Parma and Henri III of France. Well, maybe  anti-hero for Henri III, Henri of Navarre (Henri IV to come) is the true  French hero. Indeed, for me, the nastiest figures in the book are not  Spanish at all. One is Henri of Guise, Philip's co-conspirator in France,  and Sir Francis Drake, who comes across as both paranoid and greedy. Read  and be transfixed by its narrative sweep - each chapter is like a dramatic  news bulletin adding to the powerful impact of the unfolding story.	2000-09-19
US	51401956	R2LC7S4ON2BRLD	0679437223	458864358	Catch-22 (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A paradox that has entered the language ...	I read this when I was eighteen and loved it ever since. I can't count how  many times I have read it. I believe Heller once said that the book was not  really about WWII but about 'the next war'.   That is probably why it  struck such a chord with the Vietnam generation for whom the war was  happening daily on their TV sets.  The surrealism of the novel seemed to be  reproduced in the US Army officer saying about a devastated city 'We  destroyed it in order to save it'. For there is a ferocious paradox in  battle - why don't both sides just run away? This book does not try to  resolve the paradoxes (leave that to Keegan, Grossman, Marshall and the  military historians), it celebrates the 'grunts', the poor bloody infantry  (or air pilots) who just endure the madness, hoping to escape the terrible  combination of circumstances that may demand their deaths. Probably the  soldiers who endured the trenches of WWI might understand Catch-22 better  than those of WWII. Read and be amused, scarified and ultimately humbled.	2000-09-19
US	51401956	RWW5BLUIX561Q	0375708766	343556390	Lincoln: A Novel (The American Chronicle Series)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Lincoln the Enigma	I was enthralled by this book, yet can't help but feel it brought me no  closer to the figure at its centre. Vidal captures accurately the 'feel' of  Washington as a city at war - the intrigue, the booming brothels, the  personalities, the sweep of great events happening. We see Lincoln as the  still centre of a hurricane - because the focus of the novel shifts to the  people around him - his secretaries Nicolay and Hay, the assassin David  Herold, even Mrs Lincoln. I feel Vidal's Lincoln is basically that of  Edmund Wilson, with Lincoln as the American Lenin, a revolutionary forging  a new nationalist creation (the 'United States' in the singular, not the  plural) without its full consent. However, this view has been exploded by  Lincoln biographers, notably David Donald's latest effort. True, a  revolution did happen, but not by Lincoln's foreknowledge and volition. He  was more like a ship's captain steering a course with uncertain maps and  compasses and his own sense of what was right. That been said, I loved the  way the book captured the air of the Civil War as it actually happened. A  must for all Lincoln-philes, and others who enjoy historical novels.	2000-09-18
US	51401956	R1T59DPO0PH28	0520071662	342281020	Alexander of Macedon 356-323 B.C.: A Historical Biography	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Adventures of a Megalomaniac Military Genius..	Peter Green has brought the Ancient World alive for me as no other author  has. His biography of Alexander is probably his greatest achievement.  Imagine Stalin with the military genius of Napoleon, the youthful good  looks of Prince William of Britain leading one of the greatest fighting  machines ever devised (the Macedonian phalanx). Such a conjunction has  never been seen since in the world. Alexander was one of a kind but Green  has succeeded  brilliantly in providing a convincing portrait. By all means  read the competition (Mary Renault's novels are probably the best  alternative portrait), but this is the best Alexander biography by far.	2000-09-15
US	51401956	R273UASJ4EZ6DD	0394751019	421244819	The Persian Boy	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Heroic portrait of a hero.	There are many interpretations of Alexander the Great, from an alcoholic  megalomaniac &amp; murderous military genius at one extreme to Mary  Renault's interpretation at the other. But whether Mary Renault's  interpretation is the right one or not is beside the point. Her poertrayal  is entirely convincing within the limits set by her, and her Alexander and  his supporting caste is entirely convincing. Being true to the inner world  of her novels makes her a great historical novelist. Hence I reccommend  highly her trilogy (particularly this and the previous one). Those  interested in a contrary interpretation should try Peter Green's biography  'Alexander of Macedon', also an excellent read.	2000-09-15
US	51401956	R2V0EGRAMLWZ8P	0393319628	451433368	The Story of American Freedom (Norton Paperback)	Books	4	4	9	N	N	The elusive dream ...	I enjoy Foner's books, I think he a brilliant historian, however I think  perhaps he has here strayed a bit too far from the period of expertise (the  Civil War era). However, on the other hand, why shouldn't he move out of  his comfort zone! But this means that the book is strongest when dealing  with the pre- and post- Civil War period. I feel that Foner is less assured  when writing about the twentieth century. His pro-60's style radicalism and  anti-Reaganite biases show up too much to be entirely convincing.  For all  that, his writing is always forceful and interesting.I would have liked the  book to be less 'one thing after another' e.g. there was the Abolitionists,  followed by the Gilded Age, followed by Progressivism, followed by the  Roaring Twenties, followed by the New Deal ...etc. etc. I cannot help but  wonder if Progressivism was a liberal response to the depression of the  1870s and 1880s, and the New Deal to the Depression of the 1930s, what will  happen when the 'Reagan Revolution' is tested by the winds of severe  recession? Already, the 'Reagan Revolution' is looking threadbare in the  light of G.W.Bush's 'Compassionate Conservatism', and if the Democrats  regain the White House in 2000, who knows what will come next? It would be  interested for Foner to update this volume in eight, or even four years  time.	2000-09-14
US	51401956	R2JLS6CBUDD1LL	0393319628	451433368	The Story of American Freedom (Norton Paperback)	Books	4	8	15	N	N	The elusive dream ...	I enjoy Foner's books, I think he a brilliant historian, however I think  perhaps he has here strayed a bit too far from the period of expertise (the  Civil War era). However, on the other hand, why shouldn't he move out of  his comfort zone! But this means that the book is strongest when dealing  with the pre- and post- Civil War period. I feel that Foner is less assured  when writing about the twentieth century. His pro-60's style radicalism and  anti-Reaganite biases show up too much to be entirely convincing.  For all  that, his writing is always forceful and interesting.I would have liked the  book to be less 'one thing after another' e.g. there was the Abolitionists,  followed by the Gilded Age, followed by Progressivism, followed by the  Roaring Twenties, followed by the New Deal ...etc. etc. I cannot help but  wonder if Progressivism was a liberal response to the depression of the  1870s and 1880s, and the New Deal to the Depression of the 1930s, what will  happen when the 'Reagan Revolution' is tested by the winds of severe  recession? Already, the 'Reagan Revolution' is looking threadbare in the  light of G.W.Bush's 'Compassionate Conservatism', and if the Democrats  regain the White House in 2000, who knows what will come next? It would be  interested for Foner to update this volume in eight, or even four years  time.	2000-09-14
US	51401956	R2X9LOX5YKL0PP	0691019681	649589095	The Open Society and Its Enemies, Vol. 1: The Spell of Plato	Books	5	92	100	N	N	The Greatest Book of the 20th Century?	I think the title of this review is a true description of this book, but I  urge you to judge for yourself. My only regret is that I did not read it  many years ago when my head was turned by the siren calls of what Popper  calls 'tribalism'. Even then I heard about it and had it pooh-poohed as  'old hat' by 'advanced' thinkers (self-styled!). Often misinterpreted as an  attack on Plato, Marx and Hegel, it is in reality a stirring defense of  democracy  and liberalism, written at democracy's darkest hour. Now that  Marxism has collapsed, Popper in an interview given before his death called  for us now to look for the 'roads not taken', admitting that embattled  western liberalism became, to a certain extent, an unquestioned dogma like  its opponents. A good place to start that search is with Popper's greatest  book.	2000-09-07
US	51401956	R2Y4HMSE5YVLKT	0803893752	873153380	Lincoln's Unknown Private Life: An Oral History by His Housekeeper Mariah Vance 1850-1860	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A hero to his valet(ess)?	When I came across this book I thought: surely its a hoax! But no, the  recollections of Mariah Vance are well attested. I  suppose one should have  to urge caution because: (1)The memories are filtered through the person to  whom Mariah gave her recollections. (2) They are reminiscences from many  years after Lincoln had been well and truly canonised not only as the  saviour of the Union, but among blacks he was doubly revered as the  Liberator of the slaves. Hence most of the marriage troubles are blamed on  Mrs Lincoln who comes across as somewhat of a termagant, saved only by  occasional tendernesses to husband and to Mariah herself. To me the  reproduction of Mariah's speech as 1900-style black idiom grated a little -  when will authors realise that this type of writing can pall quickly, when  grammatical english almost always sounds fresh and immediate? Despite all  those slight negatives, this book was immensely refreshing - it clears up a  lot of mysteries about the Lincoln's relationship, about Lincoln's love for  Ann Ruttledge who died tragically, and about Lincoln's life-long search for  religious truth. It re-habilitates Robert Lincoln as a worthy son of a  great father, and answers some of the criticism he took from historians  about the later treatment of his mother. Lincoln has often been accused of  'racism', and was once forced into an election statement against racial  equality, which may have been sincere, but he had no qualms about his  eldest son being best friend of the son of his black housekeeper, and  having regular visits between the two households. Even with the warnings  given at the start of this review, its a 'must read' for Lincoln scholars  and collectors, and an interesting further study for those who have read  the Sandburg and David H. Donald biographies.	2000-09-06
US	51401956	R2QT2WQ2DF62H4	0803893752	873153380	Lincoln's Unknown Private Life: An Oral History by His Housekeeper Mariah Vance 1850-1860	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A hero to his valet(ess)?	When I came across this book I thought: surely its a hoax! But no, the  recollections of Mariah Vance are well attested. I  suppose one should have  to urge caution because: (1)The memories are filtered through the person to  whom Mariah gave her recollections. (2) They are reminiscences from many  years after Lincoln had been well and truly canonised not only as the  saviour of the Union, but among blacks he was doubly revered as the  Liberator of the slaves. Hence most of the marriage troubles are blamed on  Mrs Lincoln who comes across as somewhat of a termagant, saved only by  occasional tendernesses to husband and to Mariah herself. To me the  reproduction of Mariah's speech as 1900-style black idiom grated a little -  when will authors realise that this type of writing can pall quickly, when  grammatical english almost always sounds fresh and immediate? Despite all  those slight negatives, this book was immensely refreshing - it clears up a  lot of mysteries about the Lincoln's relationship, about Lincoln's love for  Ann Ruttledge who died tragically, and about Lincoln's life-long search for  religious truth. It re-habilitates Robert Lincoln as a worthy son of a  great father, and answers some of the criticism he took from historians  about the later treatment of his mother. Lincoln has often been accused of  'racism', and was once forced into an election statement against racial  equality, which may have been sincere, but he had no qualms about his  eldest son being best friend of the son of his black housekeeper, and  having regular visits between the two households. Even with the warnings  given at the start of this review, its a 'must read' for Lincoln scholars  and collectors, and an interesting further study for those who have read  the Sandburg and David H. Donald biographies.	2000-09-06
US	51401956	R1I7D70AT0Z6DU	0300080301	888346679	Five Days in London, May 1940	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Heroic Twilight	A invaluable corrective to recent English revisionism that Britain should  have 'cut a deal' with Hitler in 1940, thereby allowing the Empire to  survive. Now that the Soviet Union has collapsed this is usually posed as  the choice: second fiddle to the USA, or equal terms with Germany? As an  Irishman I can only thank my lucky stars that Churchill was PM in 1940 - a  world where German Fascists and diehard British Imperialists ruled much of  the globe could only be a nasty, violent and racist one. A world far more  nasty and violent that the one we have, which at least holds out hope of  improvement. As if Hitler would have kept a deal with the British! In the  companion volume, 'The Duel', Luckacs points out that Hitler never spelled  out his peace terms beyond the bland generality not to interfere with the  British Empire. I am reminded of a story that the staff of the Nazi Foreign  Minister, Ribbentrop (architect of the Nazi-Soviet Pact), made their boss a  present of a bound volume of all the treaties that had been made by him.  Only afterwards was it realised that every single treaty had been broken.  When Hitler heard the story, he literally wept with laughter. Can anyone  seriously believe that the British should have 'cut a deal' with such  people? Lukacs argues that these five days were (in Churchill;s phrase) the  'hinge of fate' on which the subsequent history of the war turned. Stalin  once brutishly allocated war services as follows:'The British gave time,  the American gave money, and the Russians gave blood'. Stalin was wrong -  the British bankrupted themselves , and also saved invaluable space in  giving a platform where American power could leverage against Hitler.  Lukacs seems to me to be correct in this thesis - my negatives about the  book is a lack of sense of place and atmosphere, though he does try by  quoting contemporary diaries as much as he can. Perhaps I am wrong in  wishing for a more urgent backdrop - during these days the prevailingmood  seems to be uncertainty. Read this book to fortify yourself that in 1940  the British did 'the right thing' and are to be praised for it.	2000-09-05
US	51401956	R30D3GJAV8T3OT	075091291X	88369183	The Battle of Hastings	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Climax of the Viking Age	The Battle of Hastings was a key turning point in the history of Northern  Europe. Together with the Battles of Fulford and Stamford Bridge, this  trilogy of battles enabled the great civilization that was coming into  being in Western Europe penetrate into the British Isles, when at that time  were culturally and economically part of Scandanavia. Bradbury's account is  the best that I have read - it is clear, concise but detailed enough to  satisfy anyone who wants to find out more about the climactic battle of  1066. I loved the way he used the Bayeux Tapestry right through as a  reference document. Many accounts (and I would include Frank McLynn's  recent '1066 - Year of Three Battles'), use the tapestry as a secondary  source only, a sure sign of the tyranny of the written word! Yet the  Tapestry was made within at least twenty years of the battle on the order  of one of the major participants (Bishop Odo of Bayeux, the Conqueror's  half-brother). It is therefore perhaps the prime source for the battle. It  is also a significant document on the weapons and tactics used, besides  being a prime work of art! You feel that Bradbury is judicious and  discerning on the major puzzles - Did Harold swear an oath to William? Did  Edward support William's succession? What use did the English make of  horses? How did Harold die? Did the Normans win the battle with a 'feigned  flight'? How did the Normans use their archers? Where were the English  archers? Anyone with an interest in medieval politics and military history  should have this book on their shelves.	2000-08-21
US	51401956	R18KB8CMO69G1Y	0375501037	191715854	Darwin's Ghost: The Origin of the Species Updated	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Much Like a Whale	I am reviewing the book under its UK title. This a is brilliant effort by Jones, he is as good as Diamond, Gould or Dennett who have also tackled  evolution. Packed with examples and nuggets of information. He builds up  the case for evolution from manifold observations and proposals for the  underlying mechanism, exactly as Darwin did. I actually thought the  verbatim borrowings from Darwin were superfluous. Surely Jones wants  readers to go and read the great original, which I for one am determined to  do. The other jarring note was Jones scathing attack on 'evolutionary  psychology'. Granted much rubbish has been published under this rubric.  However, Jones contention is that since the human brain is a sample of  precisely one, we will never be able to classify or understand it. But, for  example, we have only one universe, and one Earth and it has not stopped  scientists from positing multiple universes, the origins of the universe  etc. We do have multiple examples of brains - for examples the brains of  animals, and the brains of retarded or injured people. Lastly, we have  computers which are also 'brains' of a sort, thought I'm sure Jones is no  believer in &quot;strong AI&quot;. With that single reservation, I  recommend this book highly.	2000-08-15
US	51401956	R22A2BVWVFS5GS	0316330116	154225661	On Killing: The Psychological Cost of Learning to Kill in War and Society	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Flawed Masterpiece	I think this book is flawed, but at the same time I recommend it highly to military historians and the general reader.  Why is it flawed? I find the  'science' of the book excessively reductionist. Although the answers are  there, often Grossman ignores or avoids them, preferring to emphasise a  simplistic notion of what he is trying to say. For instance, he states in  several places that man has in innate aversion to killing his own species,  yet apparently man can overcome this aversion quite easily if his enemy is  fleeing, or helpless. It seems odd that this 'aversion' has its maximum  force when the enemy has at least as good a chance of killing you, as you  have of killing him! Elsewhere, Grossman does describe the psychological  shock of combat yet fails (to me) to make the obvious deduction. He also  emphasises the influence 'psychological distance' has in killers. It seems  that Grossman wants at all costs to hold on to his 'innate aversion' theory  because he can then bolster his case for 'de-sensitization' of American  children by TV. Yet even here he admits that there is a complex of reasons  for the phenomenon under discussion. At all points, evidence is anecdotal  or derived from other authors. Grossman is also not good on history other  than military history - for example, he never questions the motives for  American involvement in Vietnam in the first place, while defending the  conduct of the war by American military leadership. As an Irishman (with a  nodding acquaintance of Celtic mythology) I was astounded to read that  'ancient Celts failed to make the connection between sex and pregnancy'! I  would have liked to see the evidence for Grossman's case marshalled more  scientifically - for example Dupuy's use of statistics and operations  research. It seems to me that there are at least three books in this one -  the basic military psychological part, the story of PTS in Vietnam vets and  the 'de-sensitization of youth' part. In the end, this is abook about a  scienctific subject written for the popular market. It needs considerable  tightening up of the science and improvement of the argument before I would  have complete faith in the case it is trying to make.	2000-08-08
US	51401956	R14X2SDRVEPU8U	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A wonderful counter-factual	Could Europe have been conquered by Bantu warriors mounted on domesticated  zebras? Why could this have not happened? Well, says Jared Diamond, the  geographical factor of the Sahara desert for one thing. Also, the zebra  because of its short temper, is not domesticable. The nature of African  geography led Bantu expansion to the more clement weather of the South.  This is one of the fascinating counter-factuals that Diamond uses to  illustrate his case for geographic and biologcal determinism in human  history. The Fertile Crescent and the Southern Steppes of Russia  providentially had most of the plants and animals most easily domisticated  - wheat for example is the best cereal and the horse is the most useful for  warfare. Strangely, Diamond does not draw attention to the obvious factor  of the Mediterranean as a highway for commerce and ideas, but he does show  that at the beginning of the modern era, Europe was best positioned to  conquer the other continents for demographic, geographic and general  biological reasons, not for reasons of racial superiority.	2000-08-04
US	51401956	R22BO5IL5EEWOR	0395659949	278691326	Ulysses S. Grant: Triumph Over Adversity, 1822-1865	Books	5	7	11	N	N	A man and his battles	This is a much needed corrective to William McFeely's negative assessment  of Grant in his biography published some years ago. In particular, at last  Grant the family man is given pride of place - for all his troubles, he  always stuck by his wife and children when a lesser man might have  succumbed to alcohol and bitterness. The private man emerges as a  creditable figure - for someone who (for a time) owned a slave, he was  never a supporter of the institution. One of his failures was as a partner  of his slaveowning father-in-law for the reason that Grant insisted on  treating the slaves as he would free men. What struck me most was the  fragility of Grant's health - it seems that beneath the phlegmatic  exterior, Grant internatlised the stresses and tensions of his life,  contributing to migraines and fevers which afflicted him. Grant the general  is shown to be the greatest general of the Civil War, one never stopped  learning and growing with each engagement. He was not perfect but with this  book his place is secure as the USA's greatest general and a man second  only to Lincoln as saviour of the Union. I look forward to Simpson's  assessment of Grant's difficult years as President and private citizen.	2000-08-04
US	51401956	R1S9K6BZ0WZ6QY	0375406190	814405181	Development as Freedom	Books	5	34	39	N	N	The first Great Book of the 21st Century?	Arguably the first great book of the 21st century, Sen bases his case firmly on a clear line of descent from the first great proponent of capitalism, Adam Smith, through to the 'distributive justice' ideas of John  Rawls. Sen  neither embraces simpistic utilitarianism or Rawls'  algorithm  of allocation to the worst off. Sen seems to be to echo Karl Popper's dicta  of 'piecemeal engineering' and 'reduce needless suffering'. Though Sen is  more positive in that injustice must be sought out and corrected, not  necessarily according to philosophical formulas or libertarian agendas.  Argues that freedom to improve oneself is the highest value, not  necessarily income. Shows that this is not just a 'western value' as  relativists claim. Sen transcends the tired labels of left and right - a  must for any reader concerned about social justice in the modern world.	2000-07-17
US	51401956	R3KXTU0GUEJYKB	0684855151	455706607	Lincoln: A Foreigner's Quest	Books	4	69	72	N	N	A Stroll with Abe	First of all, some negatives: the book could have done withsome acquaintance with recent Lincoln scholarship. For example, onLincoln's atheism, there exists evidence from independent witnesses that Abe was secretly 'dunked' i.e. baptised into the German Baptist Church, the faith of his mother. Also, the Ann Ruttledge story (the love of Lincoln's youth) has been too well verified to be doubted, despite the cloying sentimentality attached to the story, rightly castigated by the author. On the Civil War, there are egregious errors - General George Pickett was never Lee's 'second-in-command' and Appromattox Manor House, which never existed, stands in for the McClean House at the village of Appomattox Court House, which seems to be confused with Grant's HQ at City Point. Yet, the book has merits. For admirers of Lincoln (and this is one) there is the winning over of a doubter, as the author once was. There are fresh insights and the book makes the reader almost an eavesdropper was the author stolls with Old Abe through his career. Despite the persistence of the hard-nosed politician in the war-time President, Jan Morris is correct in showing how Lincoln somehow transcended his time of trial as an artist might overcome his vicissitudes and produce a great artistic work. For the Lincoln detractors (and they are many!) there is the challenge of unravelling Morris' change of heart in succumbing to the spell of Lincoln, without subscribing to Lincoln mythology. Do not read this book as a biography of Lincoln, rather it is an essay on one person's encounters with the man. Use it as an introduction to the pursuit of the greatest and most elusive of American Presidents.  END	2000-02-08
US	51401956	RCUJJQMQHNP67	070060748X	809880535	Decision in the West: The Atlanta Campaign of 1864 (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Not the last word.......	This is probably the best book about the Atlanta campaign, however let nobody think it is the last word. I do not wish to repeat the positive aspects mentioned in the other reviews - the book is of panoramic sweep and  quite insightful. My negative comment (which is really a response to the  author's conclusions) is: is is really so bad that Sherman was a 'raider'  rather than a 'battler'? Henry Hattaway and Archer Jones concluded in  'How  the North won' that the raiding strategy adopted by Grant and Sherman was  the eventual war- winning strategy that sapped the heart of the  Southern  war effort and morale. Looking at it this way shows that the Grant/ Sherman  combination  succeeded in 1864/65 where the Lee/ Jackson partnership had  failed in 1862/ 63 i.e implement a victorious strategy. Grant, whose vision  created this strategy and who found its most  successful implementer in  Sherman, deserves most  of the credit. Castel seems to assume that the   territory-occupying, battle-fighting strategy of pre-1864 was the way to  continue, however he may be wrong in not crediting Grant and Sherman for  inventing and implementing a new way of making war. The debate will no  doubt continue.	2000-01-10
