US	51405978	R2T4MQT2DEY2GT	0451145666	79555572	The Duke's Wager	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Jaded	You can get the plot pretty much anywhere, and at first glance, the Duke's Wager, seemingly, is very formulaic.  Young innocent bookish virgin heroine + titled promiscuous handsome rake.  In this case, two of them: the younger and less dissipated Marquis of Bessacarr, and the truly legendary Duke of Torquay.  However, while the secondary characters are not very well developed, it is understandable when you see how powerful the characters of Regina and the hero (yes, he is still a hero) are.  It leaves little room to flesh out extraneous characters, and maybe that's why the book is so compelling: it propels along by the force of one man alone; I knew who I wanted Regina to be with even before she appeared on the scene. <br />Written in the 80s, it dates itself a little in that the characters have semi-soliliquies a la Woodiwiss, but with infinite times the intelligence and a fraction of the mind-numbing dullness.  All the characters say &quot;for&quot; when they mean &quot;because&quot; and there are several typos, but this remains, undisputedly, Layton's best work, if not the top 10 romances I've ever read.	2003-03-18
US	51405978	RZBJO5PFYVJOH	0060196726	473690060	The Lives of the Muses: Nine Women & the Artists They Inspired	Books	5	9	10	N	N	I feel inspired	An intriguing glimpse at the lives of 9 women and how they influenced western culture.  Extremely well-researched, but by no means conclusive (ranging from 30-50 pages per women).  Ms. Prose answers as many questions as she suggestively invokes, and my only one complaint is that while each section always contains a photograph or two pertinent to the &quot;muse,&quot; there are others that Ms. Prose mentions, but does not include.  It is a small quibble, however, because the syntax and diction are more than a little ethereal, befitting of the subjects that the words describe, and from them I could form an image in my mind; also, excess photos would clutter the pages, and clash with the already lush style.  A very dreamy and sumptuous read.	2002-11-20
US	51405978	R2QOGYN8C7NUMD	1556524587	260849971	Snake Hips: Belly Dancing and How I Found True Love	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Dance like no one's watching	I like the idea of finding a hobby to recover from a break-up, and I love the idea of the hobby being belly-dancing.  But I can't claim that distinction; that is Anne Thomas Soffee's privilege, and the plot for her memoirs, Snake Hips: Belly Dancing and How I Found True Love.  As much as this comparision is unfair to Ms. Soffee, it reads a little like a certain diary by a London singleton.  However, in this case, &quot;true love&quot; contains four things: 1. belly dancing and 2. getting in touch with one's roots and 3. self-love and...  But, time out.  I'm a disbeliever in true self love, so it's rather like a compromise between Ms. Soffee and herself, some point of satisfaction where you can stop judging yourself by society's standards and say, &quot;Okay, so these are the things that are 'wrong' with me, but I could live with that.&quot;  And when she finds this third love, it's when the fourth, Mr. Possibly Right, steps into the scene.  This book also throws some light into traditional belly-dancing and the small-but-growing modern American society of belly-dancers, and erases most of the images I have of a slim, half-naked and gauzily-veiled girl gyrating.  But who deemed that to be the only sort of beauty, the only &quot;belly-dancer&quot; that there has to be?  <br />To be American, it's more or less likely that you came from elsewhere.  To be human, it's definite that you've had one failed relationship.  And when autobiographies are done right, they're like this-- an ordinary storyline told with sincerity and humor (some of it wry) and the more elusive flow, most often described in reviews as a &quot;good ear.&quot;  Don't miss out.	2002-10-09
US	51405978	RLUKKUMAK85OW	0670030732	254708177	Fox Girl	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Are we all doomed to become our parents?	...I kinda knew I was in for a harsh ride.  I mean, I read the inside flap (...); however, desensitized as I am, I had to force myself to read past the recounting of Hyun Jin's first occupation.  Also, this is a book in which the main character, the predicted heroine, is not quite a heroine; the story unfolds from her, but it's her friend Sookie who drives the action, who is the repulsively attractive person we all know, the one that doesn't seem to think in quite the same morals that you do.  To Sookie, she thinks to save herself first; but the paradox is that what Sookie does will ultimately save her friend and her child, and I think that she understood this far better than Hyun Jin does.  It's not enough to take away the \\"heroine\\" label from Hyun Jin, just to chip it.<br />Through Hyun Jin and Sookie, we see the facets of friendship and the interpretations of motherhood, and how dreams of America that once possessed the people that settled this country has swept, and influenced, the East.  It's somewhat low-key in Hyun Jin's narratives; you catch nuances of the tone.  It's a disturbing book,  pointing out the unredemptive ugliness of human society, but offering the solace that perhaps some can slip through, correct the mistakes made.	2002-09-22
US	51405978	R3P8603PIS3O57	0380978849	701835154	Lord of the Silent	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Lucky number thirteen	&quot;Someone is bound to attack you sooner or later, it happens every year...&quot; <br />A year has passed-Ramses and Nefret are now married (did we ever doubt it?)  It is the midst of World War I but of course the entire Emerson entourage return to Egypt, complete with Amelia's grandniece Sennia by her perfidious (and dead) nephew, their adorably interfering butler, Gargery, and a surly cat, Horus.<br />It is harder to describe the plot, partly because it's divided (the elder Emersons are in Cairo and for the most part the younger Emersons are in Luxor) and partly because I don't want to give anything away.  It is suffice to say that there is political intrigue and unrest in Egypt, and the British government needs Ramses to reassume his role as a spy in the conspiracy.  Besides that, there is a highly organized criminal mastermind robbing and destroying the tombs, and someone that wants Ramses and the elder Emersons out of their way.  Sounds familiar?  It's a formula, but under Peters' pen it never fails to entertain.  It is a somewhat frothier scenario, comfortable in its &quot;another year, another dead body&quot; theme, a change from the looming danger and the feverish race to the end of &quot;He Shall Thunder the Sky.&quot;  But we now have the dynamics of Ramses and Nefret's married life to contemplate, and even if schadenfreude makes me claim that it's too steeped in its sweet lovey-doveyness, it only fits along the lighter, lax upper-lip tone of the book.  And if that is inadequate there is the long cast of secondary characters, from the Emersons' English domesticates to their fall/winter Egyptian ones; to the new reader they might be confusing sometimes, especially as the characters do allude to past incidents and people.  Especially the people-does anyone ever stay dead in fiction anymore?  But I digress.  <br />It has been twenty-six years for the Emersons and us since the adventures of Amelia Peabody-Englishwoman, lady doctor, Egyptologist, sleuth-began; &quot;He Shall Thunder the Sky&quot; ended the quarter-century climax.  For me, &quot;Lord of the Silent&quot; was a fun romp, rather like a 400 page epilogue.  But I'm not complaining.	2001-10-10
US	51405978	RH78LJAENEDV9	0064401871	571846578	A Little Princess	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Little Princess	Sometimes, when I hit that recession-low when my thoughts begin to eerily resemble that of Macbeth's and I return from bookstores shockingly empty-handed, I raid my shelves for old favorites.  Once or twice a year, I inevitably return to A Little Princess.<br />Formerly of India, Captain Crewe and his daughter Sara are in London because the latter is to attend Miss Minchin's boarding school.  Due to her intelligence and wealth, Sara is made a show pupil; however, her attributes combined with her kindness and humility earns her jealous enemies, among them the headmistress herself.  Several years pass and tragic circumstances leave Sara penniless and indebted to the villaness, Miss Minchin.  All of Sara's privileges are taken away, and she is thrown into the attic and forced into the role of an unpaid servant/maid/governess.  A combination of all things-- deus ex machina, dramatic irony, peripeteia (all I knew was that it blew away my seven-year old mind and got me banging the book on the bed and yelling at the characters)-- brings about the happily-ever-after, and the proverbial riding off into the sunset (except Sara persumably did so in a luxurious coach and into the foggy London mist, or as I'd like to imagine).  <br />We can talk about the plausible holes in ALP... (and here are some SPOILERS!!!) such as the absolutely unrealistic character of Sara Crewe; the business deal between Captain Crewe and \\"the Indian gentleman\\" (but I suppose it's wrong to judge with a 21st century view of proper investigations and contracts and lawyers)... not to mention the incredible political-incorrectness and (even though it is entirely unrelated) the movie versions of the book, which TOTALLY missed the point by reviving the dead Captain Crewe!<br />Despite all, or maybe because of them, I love A Little Princess.  It has everything you'd ever want: an intelligent, gallant heroine; exotic locales (although I wanted a diamond mine more than I wanted to live in India); history; extravagance (I drooled for days over the description of the laces and velvets of the doll's wardrobe); loyalty, and tamed mice and wily monkeys... and let's not forget the sheer romance palpable in every word of the book, which I guess is embodied in all of the \\"everything\\" aforementioned.  This is a romp, a book that uses every shameless, sappy device to tug at your heartstrings and brings about tears and great gnashings of the teeth.  But every time, I gamely cheer on the brave Sara and her friends, boo Miss Minchin, and beg the characters to go next door and borrow a cup of sugar (or at least for Sara to sign her name, for God's sake, when she writes that note in her attic!!).  I love it.<br />This is the copy I had as a child, too, although I had a hardback; I remember the feel of the book in my hands, the rose-colored jacket, and the lovely, lovely colored illustrations done by Ms. Tudor.  It's an apt color-- because isn't that we're asking for when we open the book, to be immersed into a world tinted by rose-colored glasses, where the good is forever valiant and always triumphant?	2001-06-04
US	51405978	R3HBA4QJ365HC2	0380812010	940072935	All About Love (Cynster Novels)	Books	2	21	23	N	N	Dried out formula	Think back to your first car.  Mine was six years old, 75,000 miles, cherry-red; it had a long scratch at the trunk, badly painted over with a darker shade of red that did not quite match, and no matter how much I vacuumed, the carpet seemed to grow little bits of brown grass overnight.  I had to jiggle the wheel before the key would turn in the ignition, and I was afraid to open the windows because I thought they would fall out.  But no car since then has quite matched the anticipation, the exuberance I felt; no car since then gave me such a thrill simply because it was completely and so very mine.  Devil's Bride was like that-- inventive and not without its imperfections (the arrogance, the title, the back cover)-- but the horsepower that had launched Devil and Honoria into the romance stratosphere coughed and choked about three books ago, and ever since the Cynstermobile has been puttering along on the shell and the grace of the winds.  <br />All About Love contains more than one handicap-- it's not even the second car, but the sixth, and the Cynster name is a glaring discontentment.  Lucifer is a perfectly amiable man-- he is handsome and wealthy and sometimes arrogant--but imagine this repeated five times previously, and all these carbon copies had had their own perfectly amiable wives, who were all beautiful and intelligent and sometimes stubborn.  The characters are a notch below fair, the mystery is less than exciting, and as a much-hyped book in a much-hyped series it falls somewhere below disappointment.  I think this is the part where I politely state that quaint &quot;frankly, my dear&quot; platitude and demand the last few hours of my life back.  <br />But hey!  For those that read this and wanted me stoned, the Cynster books are not ending.  There's still three more left, including Chillingsworth, the twins, and some other Cynster cousin left on the branch.  I think I am going to take my car for a spin and drive it over the first cliff I see.	2001-02-19
US	51405978	R1J996TLKT49RC	0553582224	122122279	By Arrangement (Medievals)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Looking forward to 2001	It is medieval England, and Christiana Fitzwaryn learns King Edward has arranged for her a marriage to David de Abyndon.  Even with the king's blessing (whose reason, and David's for accepting, is later explained in the book), this is a magnificent faux-pas, as Christiana is the daughter of a baron and David is a merchant, a commoner, and illegitimate to boot.  You can pretty much get the plot everywhere, but I'll tell you why this book (even though published in 2000) got me highly cheerful of the new year.  <br />Christiana is a wonderful heroine-- she is eighteen, but Hunter does not allow her youth and inexperience to excuse her from stupidity.  When in the opening pages, she goes to a clandestine meeting to talk to her never-before-seen betrothed, I groaned to myself and thought, &quot;Oh, no!  She will plead for him to back out, tell him haughtily that she has given her heart/body/heart and body to another, and this will be the beginning of one of those I-love-you-I-hate-you-husband-meets-other-lover-who-will-throw-a-wrench-into-the-burgeoning-love stories.&quot;  Yes, Christiana loves a bit foolishly (as in the case of Stephen Percy, a knight with whom she has shared intimacy), but a certain beautiful je ne sais quoi soon set my previous prejudice aside.  The heroine is admirable, with the right amount of common sense and spirit to be believable (don't you hate an immensely reasonable or a too feisty heroine?).  And of course-- there's David de Abyndon. He's handsome, of course, with great wealth, hidden mystery, and a soupcon of danger.  Sometimes, he seemed a bit villanous, and the last few pages as he contemplated Christiana's brother and revealed the reason for his willing role as a bridegroom quite chilled my blood.  That left me a bit unsettled of the newlywed's rosy future (plus my limited knowledge of the political situation of the era, not to mention the life expectancy), but hey... I'm optimistic.	2001-01-05
US	51405978	R1YYXKS7KPZXZU	0380815575	722221564	The Viscount Who Loved Me (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great surprise!  A frothy and funny foray...	I have read all of Ms. Quinn's backlist.  She writes with a light hand and great enthusiasm, but to tell the truth, I never engrossed myself in her stories--- until now. The plot is this: Anthony Bridgerton decides to get married.  Anthony requires his future wife to be of good breeding and reasonably comeliness but makes no mention of love.  It's not that some first wife or a bitter experience with a woman has aversed him to love-- Anthony has seven brothers and sisters and a caring home.  But it's his father's early death, a catastrophical event in Anthony's otherwise fairy-tale childhood, that convinces Anthony that he will die young too.  He is resolved to not leave behind an even bigger family who will mourn him.  So, Anthony has extended this dubious honor to Edwina Sheffield, a current beauty of the Season, but due to a remark Edwina had made, he has to curry favor from Edwina's older stepsister, Kate.  <br />I've always loved heroines named Kate.  They remind me of the Original-- the Kate from Shakespeare's The Taming of the Shrew.  And indeed, Quinn's Kate is somewhat like her-- she pales in comparison to her gorgeous younger sister, and she possesses quick wits.  And indeed, while Anthony woos the sister to woo his intended, he finds himself enthralled with Kate's spirit and quirky beauty.  Luckily, Edwina is different from Bianca in that she is as beautiful inside as on the surface, and the two sisters' caring relationship is far from the dreaded Stepsister Syndrome.  Anthony's psychological fear, a great motivator of the plot, is sympathetic and never veers toward the whiny or the bothersome; the humor of the story is not forced but allowed to proceed.  I found myself laughing during the Pall Mall scene, and by the end closed the book with a light heart and a satisfied sigh.<br />P.S. The Duke and I, a previous book, introduces Daphne Bridgerton, Anthony's sister, and her romance.  To a lesser subplot, Lady Whistledown (a regular staple in the Duke and I) makes appearances in The Viscount Who Loved Me... I think I know who she is.  Is it any great hope to say that I think she will have her own story, and that I've a suspect for a hero?	2001-01-05
US	51405978	R6KN4J62K6391	0380976595	734607570	He Shall Thunder In The Sky: An Amelia Peabody Mystery	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Is ignorance bliss?	For this review, I'll pull out one of my high school talents: circumlocution; it's so hard to write without giving anything away.  For a total change of subject (ah, so you think!) I never liked the stories about King Arthur because I knew what happened.  For some reason, Shakespeare operated on a different level; I knew Romeo and Juliet would die but the play was still enjoyable; I knew Hamlet and Othello would bring destruction to their families but I still liked knowing how they got there.  But I can't read King Arthur without feeling sadness and pity; I'll see Sir Gawain, and I'll think, I'm sorry, you're going to die; I'd yell at Sir Lancelot and Guinevere as soon as they make an appearance.  <br />So, here's to AP.  I don't know if I'll ever reread the Amelia Peabody series, because I think with He Shall Thunder in the Sky, the books fall into the King Arthur cateogory.<br />The background you can get anywhere: it's 1914 and the Emersons are in Egypt again, digging (half-heartedly, I thought) despite the outbreaking war.  Ramses and Nefret are there, too, but David has been exiled to India because of his anti-British views.  There are two seemingly separate plots going on: Ramses's mysterious activities and the re-emerging of the Master Criminal.  Obtuse fool that I was, I totally forgot the prologue as I plunged into the book; it didn't make sense anyway until the last few pages when I was clutching at my poor heart and screeching and crying at the same time.  In HSTitS, Amelia's stiff upper lip has relaxed into some touching demonstrations of motherly love; the trademark wit is there, and there is more action (intrigue, touch of sexual tension, etc.) compared to other AP books(which may or may not work for you).  All your questions are answered: Who is the MC?  Will Percy get his?  What will happen to Nefret and Ramses?  But with those loose ends skillfully knotted by Peters (and one in the most unsatisfying heart-wrenching way!), I'm wondering, what's next?What CAN be next?	2000-10-17
US	51405978	R2N331F7ECE0U8	0515123692	120950184	My Darling Caroline	Books	4	3	8	N	N	Fun and touching BUT...	If you didn't know, this was THE book earlier this year.  I caught the fever and haunted the new bookstores (What do you mean, you don't have it?  It's barely a month old!  No, I don't want Nora Roberts!) and scavenged the old ones, but I never found it.  Then I got wise and ordered it from Half.com, and settled down over my precious fall break to read my much-anticipated treasure.<br />I've good news and bad news.  The bad news... nothing can live up to my expectations.  By now, I thought it would be a cross between Rhett's staircase kiss and a direct revelation from God.  But when I finished it, I felt as if what I'd really gotten were a few Hershey's chocolate nuggets (you know, satisfyingly good but not that great) and that God was actually just some guy over the store loudspeaker.  <br />I like my men to be gentlemen.  Brent wasn't.  Oh, he has a title, and you're suppose to think that underneath that tough, unloved exterior he is.  I'll buy that, but that doesn't rub away my impression that he's just kind of... cold.  And blunt.  Expect him to be very blunt and straight-forward, expect a lot of twists, misunderstandings... that began to annoy me when Ashworth would pile one &quot;incident&quot; on top of the other until... I didn't really care, anymore.  You can read the list of the reviewer underneath, but come on, babe, it's FICTION, and I've never came across anything in my life that was perfect.  But the good news, now.  Despite what I've said, it's very well-written, and the heroine far surpasses the hero in my opinion.  She's smart and ambitious and kind in her own particular way.  Every modern woman would understand Caroline's position, as in, encountering even today in our &quot;enlightened&quot; times bigotry about women's intelligence, and the issue of pursuing a career or having a family.  <br />Take a chance, and see if this book works for you.	2000-10-15
US	51405978	R3L0IWYBYR1X6C	1551666103	672867913	Mistress (Mira)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	What if you had the chance to be somebody you weren't...	Kathleen O'Leary took the chance with a borrowed dress and jewels, and fell in love with Dylan Kennedy, a wealthy and desired bachelor.  So the story ends here, right?  Of course not... it's a romance, and we must have turbulence, passion, fire (ha!  no pun intended...)!  Both were not what they pretended to be, and through a heedless marriage the truth comes out.  What's a 12:01 Cinderalla and a dethroned Prince Charming to do?  <br />It's a story about how you can find your identity, your peace, in the one you love, and how unlikely that love can sometimes be;  it's not unlike The Charm School, another book by Wiggs, that paired together a hero and a heroine that, under normal circumstances, wouldn't even have looked at each other on the street.  Well-written and heartwarming, set against the famous fire in Chicago and the stunning effects it had on people's (real and fiction) lives, The Mistress is a lovely, polished gem to spend your day with.	2000-10-07
US	51405978	RHWV3NXL86R6N	0312153236	979256691	A Company of Swans	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Enchanting	In 1912, Cambridge, Harriet Morton lives in an oppresive household with her dry, clutch-fist aunt and narrow-minded father.  Like Anna (of A Countess Below Stairs by the same author), Harriet possesses the pure, luminescent quality that Ibbotson seems to favor in her leading females.  Harriet's main joy in her life is her dancing lesson; she is offered a chance to become part of a troupe going to the Amazons.  She meets at a neglected Yorkshire mansion an endearing, odd little boy named Henry that begs her to find The Boy; Henry is sure that The Boy is in the Amazons and that he will save the ruined household. Struck with this serendipitious sign, Harriet takes the chance to follow her dream to the far-away land.  We meet the bumbling, insensitive suitor, and the tempermental, aging ballerina; we meet Harriet's roommate and friend, Marie-Claude, a beauty who wants to open an inn by the mountains.  Sometimes, the secondary characters can &quot;break-or-make&quot; a story; in this case, they perform their roles to perfection.<br />Like all good books, the plot seems fairly simple until you explain it.  I can't go into detail of who The Boy is (surely you must have guessed anyway!) but I will leave in mystery WHO he has become and WHY he is where he is.  It wouldn't be fair to compare this book to A Countess Below Stairs, which is what I incline to do.  This one is longer, and sometimes does drag on; the agonizing love of Anna and Rupert is not repeated because A Company of Swans is lighter, and more suited to convention (which you will recognize if you've been a long-time romance reader).  There is a villain, but unlike the bloodthirstiness in &quot;modern&quot; historicals (is that an oxymoron?) she does not receive her comeuppance as one is used to.  But the threads of the story weave together to form an effortless plot and a sweet, charming tale.  Rather Dickens-ish in its range of &quot;coincidences&quot; that bring Harriet, the heroine, and Rom Verney, the hero,together, A Company of Swans is nonetheless beautifully written and an engaging read.	2000-09-30
US	51405978	R22XPI154B08O9	0345417976	438809520	A Prayer for Owen Meany: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Fustrating yet poignant; no less than brillant	I literally had to read this book; it's required for school.  I've read most of Irving's works, and I have a great respect for him but for want of a better reaction word I will say I'm iffy about A Prayer for Owen Meany.   I think what bothered me was how Irving foreshadowed too much... the  novel's about 600+ pages and for the whole part the narrator John kept  saying stuff like, &quot;I didn't know what Owen meant until... later&quot;  and &quot;I didn't know how correct Owen would be until... later.&quot; I  definitely liked the latter half the best.  But then again the last part  wouldn't be that effective (or do I mean explosive?) if John didn't allude  to it so much.  The good news: Owen Meany is thought-provoking.  You're  left with a sense of wonder, of your mind frantically grappling through  what it'd absorbed for the last hours and connecting it all together.  I  sighed &quot;ahhhhhhhh&quot; at the end... And I've never read a  contemporary author who does humor as well as Irving.  It's wry, a little  sly, like Owen wanting to ask forMrs. Walker to be casted as a prostitute,  or a child molester; it's not outright hilarious but effective in that I  thought of the Freud-like doctor's VW in the auditorm and laughed (and this  is nearly a week after I'd finished the book.)  Reading Irving for me is  always a double-edged sword but regardless of the reservations I have, I  definitely recommend Owen Meany.	2000-07-20
US	51405978	R3VY4OFMSRFRWD	0515117633	553300235	Dance	Books	5	40	41	N	N	An engrossing read	To give a brief, bare-bones summary, Marie Du Gard was engaged to Sebastien de Saint Vallier's ether-inhaling brother, Nardi.  She left Nardi at the altar in her single act of disobediance, and also her autocratic  father in a sense, had a brief coupling with Sebastien, and went to  America.  Three years later, she returned with a trunk full of film and  cameras, intended to be (in the manner of the Lumiere brothers) a  filmmaker.  In the turn-of-century Paris, this is unheard of, and the rest  of the story develops the lingering attraction and budding romance between  Sebastien and Marie (despite their differences.)<br />&quot;Sebastien knew  Marie Du Gard slightly better than her father realized... It had been a  fleeting, feverish encounter on a rainy August afternoon that had made no  sense then and made even less now.  He remembered that afternoon three  years ago as a kind of a blurred, hysterical dot on the continuum of his  otherwise orderly life, a little moment hat was easier to pretend had never  happened than to explain in the context of his normally sound, exemplary  conduct.&quot;<br />I am not giving anything away, as this is the very first  paragraph.  To risk sounding like my English teacher, do you see how Ms.  Cuevas use certain syntax and diction to describe the breathless haziness  of the moment, and also establish Sebastien's staid and formal character?   It could have been written as, &quot;Sebastien slept with Marie once and it  was a bad, bad disruption in his life.&quot;  But it wasn't, and that's  what makes Dance such a wonderful experience.  It's not a light, fluffy  beach read as I had thought; the words are beautiful and flowing, and while  I slowly roasted on my beach blanket I devoured half of it in two hours.   Ms. Cuevas has been compared to Jane Austen and to Henry James; indeed, she  has the old-fashioned, highbrow fluid style that is sometimes alternately  teasing and erotic.  Escape with Dance into 1900 Paris and you'll discover  a hauntingly beautiful experience.	2000-06-16
US	51405978	R3RURPBZUZB6D2	0440146623	740376348	Leonie	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Guilty pleasure	Peach is the sequel (the titled heroine being Leonie's granddaughter) but the extra something that gave Leonie its spark is missing.  But I'm not reviewing Peach... <br />Reminiscent of the romances of the 80s with a touch  of Steele and Susann, Leonie is nonetheless an enjoyable read.  Messed up,  somewhat lurid, it begins the story of Leonie, a provincal, beautiful  French girl who leaves her hometown for Paris and eventually hooks up with  Monsieur, a shadowy, powerful married man who becomes enthralled with her.   It tells, in turn, of Leonie's interlude with Monsieur, Leonie's  freindships, and how eventually Leonie breaks free of her obsessive and  mentally abusive relationship.  There are a few loose ends: Leonie's  attraction to her Egyptian figurines, her parentage, and the climatic but  ambiguous ending, but overall Leonie is a reasonably satisfying read.	2000-06-10
US	51405978	R23WNVT7ZVLO4Z	044020111X	291653907	Peach	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Mediocre...	Peach is the follow-up to Leonie, and while both could be termed &quot;trashy&quot; Peach is even more so by the certain lack of grace and a hurriedness that ruins some parts of the book.  While I liked Leonie, both  the book and the woman, I didn't like Peach, or many of the other people in  this book.  We could break it down: Peach is spoiled, from the beginning to  the end; her actions are rushed and brainless.  Her older sisters are  useless and one-faceted; her parents, supposed to be loving, are forever in  the background and also rather useless.  Noel Maddox, the hero, while  earning a few applauses by his sheer will and success of improving himself,  is ruthless, cold, and never changes.  There's also some loose ends that  carries over from Leonie: what's Leonie's mysterious Egyptian background?  As Monsieur was a monumental part of Leonie, did anyone ever figure what  happened to him?  (I'm trying not to give away the first book, therefore  the ambiguity.)Whatever happened to Peach's child, Henry, or Augusta?  As a  sequel to Leonie, which I rather liked, this book rates a 2; standing by  itself alone, I'm not sure even if I would have picked it up.	2000-06-10
US	51405978	ROX7VDRDXZVG3	0380775492	956275996	Just One Kiss	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Average; a good way to spend a few hours	There was a small controversy over this book when it first came out because according to some, the hero (like most of them do) mistreats the heroine throughout the entire book and it's only at the end when he briefly  redeems himself.  For me, I didn't see this as that big of a problem; yes,  Morgan was undeniably pig-headed; the Big Misunderstanding could have been  avoided if only the main characters had communicated... However, I liked  Morgan; I have a soft spot for these brooding alpha males (well, when  they're well-written; and Just One Kiss does falls into that category  despite some of the quibbles I had.)  Overall, this is a good book to pass  the day with; nothing spectacular, but if you do like Ms. James' style I  would suggest One Moonlit Night, another book of hers that I liked better.	2000-06-09
US	51405978	R1YDOZ2X113AQC	0380766477	944351038	The Lion's Daughter	Books	5	73	76	N	N	Wonderful; the hard to find first of a &quot;loose&quot; series	In the Lion's Daughter, Esme Brentmor is the heroine, the daughter of Jason, an English nobleman in self-imposed exile with a beneficiary link to the British government.  Esme is a rather different heroine; she was raised  in Albania, and this has made her independent with more of an Eastern  idealogy. Through some events that I won't spoil, she has to leave to  avenge her father's death, and she is accompanied by Varian St. George,  Lord Edenmount. <br />This book began oddly for me; I didn't like the hero,  Varian, very much, because he seemed too much of a parasite (he's broke,  and lives as a house guest in the homes of social climbers who like  association with his title); also, he seemed to be a pushover.  The  heroine, likewise, was too much of what you'd politely call  &quot;feisty;&quot; she was abrasive, reckless, and arrogant.  But into the  book, Esme softens and is toned down, letting her be vulnerable without  making it unbelievable, and Varian, despite his fashionable, foppish  exterior, is honorable, with integrity and a worthiness for love.  Oh yes,  they deserved each other, and that is not meant with an ugly tone.  <br />And  in The Lion's Daughter, we are introduced with one of my favorite villains  in the world: Ismal, who is plotting an overthrow of Ali Pasha, the current  leader of Albania, and he is simply delicious.  Following The Lion's  Daughter is Lord of Scoundrels, which is every bit as imaginative, and  probably my favorite among all; Captives of the Night, which is suppose to  be set a few years after Lord of Scoundrels, and The Last Hellion, which is  the latest one but set during the time of Lord of Scoundrels.	2000-04-05
US	51405978	R3NUQB9D17XRYF	0525944427	247238398	My Heart Laid Bare (Joyce Carol Oates Book)	Books	2	3	11	N	N	I do not see why people make such a fuss...	I seem to be the only reviewer who did not like this book, and I will try to work out why.  I picked up My Heart Laid Bare in the bookstore, rifling through the pages, and because some words caught my eye I went back and  read the first chapter.  It was spectacular.  It caught my attention, and  made my mind speed along with what the book promised, so I bought it.  But  as I moved beyond the first chapter and into the lives of the Lichts, I  found myself wrinkling my nose and setting the book aside more often.  The  characters I neither liked nor admired, the style bored me, and the plot...  depressing, bumping along.  I don't know what happened to the exciting  breathlessness of the first pages, but whatever magic that made me purchase  the book was lost by the time I forced myself to the last pages.  Since  then, I've read a few short stories by Joyce Carol Oates, and found that I  didn't like them much either.  But difference of opinions like such are  common as everyone has his/her own taste, and my disliking of My Heart Laid  Bare is just one example.	2000-04-05
US	51405978	R1JA9BYTP72V4C	0380789345	599616151	Brighter Than the Sun	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Surprisingly good	As opposed to the dozens of people who loved How to Marry a Marquis (another novel published later than Brighter Than the Sun), I set the book on my bookshelf and never looked at it again.  But browing through my bookstore, empty-handed and desperately craving a read, I spotted this one  and decided to give Ms. Quinn another try.  From the first page, I became  involved in the book; Charles and Ellie meet under certainly unconventional  circumstances, and their banter throughout is light and amusing.  My one  issue was the &quot;villain&quot; element: it seems as if it was thrusted  in at the last moment with little thought to provide denouement in the last  few pages, and at first I didn't even recognize who the villain was as the  villain was only mentioned once or twice, briefly.  However, my problem  aside, I thoroughly enjoyed reading Brighter than the Sun.  It's a  delightful, frothy read perfect for those days you'd like to relax, and  although I have to admit it certainly isn't one of my favorites it has  redeemed Ms. Quinn in my eyes.	2000-04-02
US	51405978	R1LAVSJ531F8D1	055329430X	571620734	Lady Gallant	Books	5	23	25	N	N	MUST-READ	Normally I do not read Tudor era romanes; I tend to stay away from the medieval and stick to Regencies and such.  But this is a special case, and there are not enough adjectives enough in the world to describe Lady  Gallant.  I hold this book for an example to show what all romances should  be. To start off, Kit and Nora are simply marvelous.  The back blurb will  have you believe that she is mousy and shy, and even the first few pages  will lead you to that assumption.  But she isn't--- Nora is a wonderful,  brave character with depths; she's a heroine who is believable for her time  period, a heroine whom you can admire and love.  And Kit... he's delicious.   Rather than being an brooding, cynical, and/or tortured alpha male, Kit is  a sybarite, a 16-century James Dean.  The language and the usage of  everyday songs and snippets of poetry add to Ms. Stuart's wonderfully  structured prose without being superfluous, and the historical background  is so well researched that Lady Gallant will forever remain among my  favorites.	2000-03-28
US	51405978	R22Q74WLHVZ7AT	0553574108	644703491	I Thee Wed (Vanza)	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Oh, how I lament the bygone days...	In I Thee Wed, the characters fall flat, crushed under a forced &quot;gothic&quot; aura and oppressed by the &quot;witty&quot; banter.  It was clear from the first few chapters who the villain would be; the  secondary characters, while trying to be amusing, were merely annoying.   <br />While not as laughably, depressingly god-awful as With This Ring, I Thee  Wed does not deserve to be mentioned in the same sentence as with Quick's  past works, like Mistress, Rendezvous, Scandal, etc.  It's a trend with  Quick that she uses formulic characters (i.e., the dark, tortured hero, the  virginal, sweetly valient heroine) but somehow, starting with Affair, the  formula has become noticeably unbalanced.  I don't hold much hope for  Wicked Widow, and frankly, I am not sure I want to read any more Quick  after my these last two cringe-worthy, money-wasting efforts.	2000-03-19
US	51405978	R1LXD3VP9AW71V	0425173631	653412877	Witness in Death	Books	5	1	2	N	N	I worship J.D. Robb	If I purchase a J.D. Robb novel, I know I'll spend the rest of the day in delighted silence, entertained by Eve and Roarke and Ms. Robb's deft, intelligent prose for several hours.  This tenth installment in the series  is not any different; Eve and Roarke settle into married life with humor  and tenderness.  I think if I had to choose one thing I like best about the  &quot;In Death&quot; books it would be how Robb doesn't give away the  villain on the first pages, like so many &quot;mystery&quot; books I read  these days.  Also, there are always interesting twists and supplementation  in the plot, and secondary characters whom I truly care about (Mavis and  Peabody, notably).  I can't wait for Ms. Robb's next Eve Dallas novel.	2000-03-19
US	51405978	R2NTHXVYQS0UU9	0670884502	880134854	The Master of all Desires	Books	2	9	11	N	N	Lacking	I am such a hardcore JMR fan that I hesitate to say anything bad about The Master of All Desires, but there's also another reason: I do not know what, precisely, made this book so unenjoyable for me.  Sibille's character is  undeveloped; it seems that she considers herself on the metaphysical,  &quot;higher&quot; plane, which was a rather annoying attitude since it was  never elaborated or even proved but just repeated over and over.  The only  redeeming quality to Sibille are the occasional scenes offering only  teasing, spontaneous glimpses to her motivation and personal thoughts, but  then they would switch over to Nostradamus or something entirely  anticlimatic.  Even Nicholas, the love interest, was shallow and rather  mopey; the interaction between the hero and the heroine (which is what  makes the romance part work) was limited to only a few pages.  I would have  thought that, under the cirumstances, Nostradamus was the hero!  The  intrigues and the plot clunked on slowly and creakily; the villains are  numerous but one-facet, and the ending offers a tidy wrap to the  happily-ever-after but leaves other gaps (like Sibille's sister and mother,  for one.)  If you are starting with JMR, I would suggest reading The Oracle  Glass, since The Master of All Desires does leave a whole lot (if you will  pardon my pun) to be desired.	2000-01-04
US	51405978	R1AQR268VN4R4Q	0380805693	132899149	A Rogue's Proposal (Cynster Novels, Book 4)	Books	3	31	33	N	N	Disappointing	I suppose it's a bit like Christmas morning.... you run downstairs, and, after months of waiting, instantly attack the biggest box with your name on it.  You open it up, anticipation drumming inside you, and then.... you  find that instead of the Pokemon item you wanted, you received last year's  garble-talking Furby.  <br />That parallels my reaction to A Rogue's Proposal.   After falling in love with the Bar Cynster and sighing over the three  preceding books, I breathlessly, eagerly awaited for the fourth one.  I  guess I could tell I had a problem with A Rogue's Proposal when I didn't  feel compelled to finish it in one setting; I read it over two days, always  faithfully returning to it but never really felt driven (as I had with the  others) to find out what happened to Demon and Flick.  The storyline was so  slow I skipped pages, because all that was happening was Flick attending  London balls and fretting over Demon's love for her.  There weren't any  major faults with the characters, except for Flick's  almost-bordering-on-stupidity escapades, but even that wasn't a major crime  since it was an &quot;almost.&quot;  However, I still couldn't bring myself  to care for the hero and the heroine.  The love scenes, while still pretty  R/NC-17 rated, were even kind of dull and trite.  I would recommend this  book to a devoted Cynster fan, but if you're new, start with Devil's Bride  or even A Rake's Vow.	1999-12-13
US	51405978	R2YC4VPWC9MPXJ	044022375X	861496437	My Dearest Enemy	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A draw	The only thing that redeemed this book were the snippets of letters that the hero an the heroine wrote to each other, and perhaps the epilogue at the end.  There was a conflict, yes, but not one that I personally could  sympathize with or felt moved from, and after the sweetly funny As You  Desire and the darkly intense All Through the Night, this came as somewhat  a downer.	1999-12-13
US	51405978	R2YOFIGRBJMBRG	0553294083	289682022	Whisper of Roses	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Wow!	Yes, I wanted to slap Sabrina a few times, but I was too teary from the entire storyline to do so.  Morgan is a keeper!  Ms. Medeiros is a lyrical, gifted storyteller that would make even the most awfully written book  wonderful.  (OK, maybe not, but let's hope we won't have to find out on a  first-hand basis.)	1999-06-10
US	51405978	R1ANOEIMGKPZID	0316569321	613460974	White Oleander	Books	4	1	1	N	N	White Oleander	The book DOES flow, I'll give it that... some bumps and hitches, though, but, nothing can be perfect, can it?  However, I was a bit leery of reading this since from the back blurb it sounded like something I would have  picked up in seventh grade.  Hey!  Know what it reminds me of?  All while I  was reading this one thing kept tugging on my mind... and that was The  Secrets of Ya-Ya Sisterhood.  That's what was bothering me.  Since I didn't  exactly love that book, it prohibites me from giving WO a rave review.  And  yet, on the other hand, since I too (like millions of other girls) had  problems with my mother while growing up, I did sympathize with the main  character's struggle to  find an identity outside of her mother's control.  (I'm happy to say that my mother was... not so freakish and omniously  looming as Ingrid.)  I was really amazed on how Astrid turned out half as  well as she did...	1999-05-06
US	51405978	R2O6WLQ7C34PUD	0671891081	28431139	The Blessing	Books	1	5	5	N	N	Save your money!!  Run while you still have the chance!!	Reading &quot;The Blessing&quot; left me with a general feeling of ughness that lingers even as I am typing up this review.  Unrealistic plot and characters that crashed straight through the ground and past into the  Earth's core.  Jason (with his lion's mane of gray hair) and Amy are  burning from the high temperature!!  Don't save them!  I, as a devoted Jude  Deveraux fan for all my young years, am thoroughly disappointed.	1999-02-17
US	51405978	R3CAB6GPVQT9YZ	0671020110	170117719	Counterfeit Lady	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Disappointing	This is one of Ms. Deveraux's earlier books and while it does demonstrate her potential, I would not recommend reading it.  The beginning was engrossing and then it starts to fall apart.  You're cursing the hero and  the heroine and trying to keep track of all the new and  &quot;cliffhanger&quot; characters that are randomly thrown in every few  pages, and after a while it's like....who cares anymore?  I didn't.	1998-11-07
US	51405978	R2M5PFOUCXFQ82	0671737643	869998580	Whitney, My Love	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Loved it!	I think this is Ms. McNaught's best....Whitney and Clayton are definitely  memorable!  Although I'd have to say that I was secretly rooting for Nicki  DuVille, too..... The sequel, Until You, is something of a disappointment  though after this great first book .... the same storyline, plot, etc. but  everyone from the first book makes a return (including Nicki).  Have to  find that book where Nicki finds his own love.... what was it called, A  Gift of Love?  Well, definitely read Whitney, My Love!	1998-10-10
