US	51403759	R2IBIU02GAKPWS	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	Mildly Exasperating	The first thing that I would like to lead off with in this review is a warning.  This book is the first of a series of four, and you really can't get the whole story without at least reading the next one.  I had foolishsly suspected this not to be the case, and now I am going to have to go scrounge up The Fall of Hyperion somewhere in order to finish the plot that I started. <br /> <br />That, by the way, is my major complaint with respect to the book.  While Simmons does an excellent job of building and interweaving his stories (though the linearity in the realization of the sub-plots of the book makes the supposedly random order that the pilgrims were supposed to tell their stories in somewhat difficult to believe), he does a very poor job of resolving the issues that he brings up before the end of the story.  Certainly, there are more satisfying ways to end a book about a pilgrimage to a supposedly sacred site than with the pilgrims still on their way to the supposedly sacred site without much in the way of facts revealed or resolved. <br /> <br />On the plus side, however, stands the fact that this may be one of the most exceptional works by a science fiction writer in some time.  Simmons does not demonstrate a mastery with the genres into which he delves in his six stories, but he does display a deep and impressive aptitude and familiarity with the craft.  There are better detective stories you will read than The Detective's Tale--I can assure you of that much--but I doubt that you will read a better one interwoven with as many other distinct flavors of story. <br /> <br />The story is ultimately engaging and intriguing, if a bit plodding and, given recent writing in the genre, possibly a little passe to readers just coming into the series, but fulfilling on the whole.  Just make sure that you order the other parts of the series to go with this book, as you will no doubt be searching for the next book in the series to resolve the story that remains unfinished at the end of this book.	2004-11-24
US	51403759	RPMOZMGR85PG9	1880418622	871670140	The Dark Tower (The Dark Tower, Book 7)	Books	4	5	11	N	Y	In Summation	To start, I'd just like to point out how incredibly rude that I believe it to be to include such obvious plot spoilers as I have seen in other reviews for this particular book, and I will strive to avoid doing such myself.  Should I fail, you have my sincerest apologies. <br /> <br />Now on to what you really came here to read, which is the review of the book.  Honestly, if you're reading this right now, there probably isn't much point to anything I say.  If you're even thinking about buying the seventh book in the series, that generally indicates that you've already either acquired or read the first six books, which means that you WILL buy this book, if only to get the end of the story you're already so deeply invested in.  If that's the case, what are you even reading this for?  Just buy it now and get it over with.  No reason for you to have all the warts and blemishes pointed out to you beforehand, so that your eye will be drawn to them. <br /> <br />Now, to those of you who are still present, I'll continue with my consideration with respect to this particular book.  I'll admit that when I started out the series, I was expecting something better than what this is.  I was also expecting something wholly different from what it is, which I am sure colors my perceptions.  This is not what I was expecting.  I suppose that some would say that this is a good thing.  I make no judgment--it is what it is.  But, if you were reading the series expecting it to end in a \\"conventional\\" fashion, as classics like the Shannara series or The Lord of the Rings have, you may be sorely disappointed with what you find. <br /> <br />I'm also happy to say that this particular book is a significant step up from the previous volume, which reads as disjointed and incorrectly partitioned.  Indeed--several hundred pages from this novel should have been placed in that book, all things being taken in equal.  I would probably have extracted the entire first section and moved it.  At this point, however, since it's easy to put down the sixth book and pick up the seventh, that becomes a solely logistical consideration (and this book is WAY too thick to be in any way convenient). <br /> <br />I'll also admit that this book was painful, emotionally and artistically, at several points.  The emotional component was a good thing, which I'll get to momentarily.  The artistic component was not.  Stephen King hates metafiction, as he assures us in his afterword, which leads me to wonder why he would write such terrible tripe himself.  The inclusion of the writer in the dramatis personae for this particular saga does NOT improve it, and the smirking rise of the eyebrow that he casts toward deus ex machina and the predetermined nature of plot (for what other metaphor fits all this talk of ka by the end of the story?) becomes very tiresome.  There's a lot not to like about this book in that regard, if you care to fixate on it--I recommend ignoring it, but I penalize it just the same. <br /> <br />Also objectionable is the seemingly interminable cast of characters that King sucks in from his other books and stories to do shift work, fairly well requiring that any reader of this volume go out and buy approximately twenty other books in order to understand who these people are and what their backstory is.  I don't know, for example, what he thought Dinky Earnshaw was doing here, but he seems somewhat incongruous (though that's not the worst).  More terrible by far was the confused and aimless way in which he tried to tie in the EXPLICIT connection that he made with Insomnia when that book was written--that whole effort rang hollow to me, and only draws attention to the unresolved circular logic that he applies in his metafictional approach. <br /> <br />There is good to this book, however.  King's storytelling is pretty much as it always is (aside from an occasional aside to speak directly to the reader, which is a bit out of character), which is to the good.  He mows through important characters and relationships like a psychotic threshing machine, but that is ALSO to the good, because in this expenditure of emotional energy, King manages to diffuse the sense of loss and longing that comes with the end of a long story across all eight hundred pages of this volume.  Never have I felt more satisfied and less sad to see a series go than at the end of The Dark Tower, and that's no small achievement. <br /> <br />Overall, I can't recommend this book to people who aren't already fans of The Dark Tower, if only because it would be completely out of context and beyond their ability to understand or appreciate without reading the first volumes.  I would recommend to those prospective readers that they start with The Gunslinger and see how they like what they find.  For those headed for the end of the story, though, this should provide a satisfying, and above all FINAL, end to the tale they've kept with for so long.	2004-11-06
US	51403759	R127GVWR5OZW59	1880418592	782981224	Song of Susannah (The Dark Tower, Book 6)	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	In Deference to the Writer	Given the rather venomous reaction criticism of the rather un-poetic nature of this particular book have received from certain members among us of the writing community, I'll try to avoid making any such comparisons.  Frankly, I'm not sure why you'd want to read anything that sounds like Stephen King writing poetry--the two that he has published were absolutely terrible, and a testament to the fact that he should never write anything other than prose. <br /> <br />That said, you'll notice, if you're a dedicated reader of the series, that this book is very similar to the fifth and not so much to any of the other books in the series.  This is new for this particular series of books, primarily because these last three were released in the course of a year and a half and the previous four took over twenty.  Let's take a look at the good and the bad, shall we? <br /> <br />I'll start with the bad, because I'm better at that.  For one thing, I think that this book (in light of the events of Wolves of the Calla and The Dark Tower) is terribly patched together.  And I mean that literally.  It comes up to only a little over four hundred pages, and there's a couple of hundred that could easily have been lifted out of the next book in the series and dropped in here without so much as a ripple.  On the whole, I think that would have been better for everybody, and it kind of bothers me the way that this particular book seems to rush along when compared to its neighboring titles.  It also does a lot of introducing of plot elements that it makes absolutely no attempt to resolve, which is just lazy writing and what some would call a shameless argument to get people to buy the final book. <br /> <br />The writing itself is pretty much as it was in the fifth story, which is to say that it's much like Stephen King's usual storytelling voice, only with a little bit of manufactured dialectic thrown in for good measure.  It lags in places and trips along quickly in others, but on the whole the story is still not as fast paced as, say, The Waste Lands--after four hundred pages, there's still only perhaps one or two action scenes of any note or moment.  Most of the story is again spent in conversation and internal monologue, which is fine by me, but if readers are expecting a return to the past for the series, they had best think again. <br /> <br />Extended character development is mostly not a factor in this book, but that's probably more due to the fact that these characters should already be familiar to readers than anything else.  The characters, at this point, are what they are, although I will admit that there was an apparent glaring flaw in Eddie's conduct halfway through the book (where his primary concern suddenly does a complete 180) that I don't think is explained anywhere near adequately.  I'll also say right now that I hate it when authors try to write books that know they're books.  You'll know what I'm talking about when I read the series, but ever since Illuminatus! it's been nothing more than gimmicky noise to me (as it was then).  I don't have much taste for it, but I believe most readers will find it a novel concept. <br /> <br />As a Dark Tower book, I'd put this one near the bottom, if only because so little of any import actually HAPPENS in this volume.  As a book in general, I'd say it's about what you'd expect from a Stephen King book.  The writing will keep your attention and keep you turning the pages, the plot will be interesting enough to keep you involved but nothing that will leave you gaping in amazement, and the language and character backstory will again be some of the best elements. <br /> <br />For Dark Tower fans, it goes without saying that this book goes in their collections.  For others, I'd recommend that you try out the first two or three books and then make your decisions--by the time you get to here, you'll either be sold on the series or you won't.	2004-11-05
US	51403759	R2ZODK6NJNBTRH	1880418568	446733041	Wolves of the Calla (Dark Tower)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Not King's Best, But Good Enough	Okay--first things first, let's all admit to ourselves that nothing that I write here is going to have any implication whatsoever on your purchase of this book.  If you've reached the point in your life where you are considering buying the fifth book in the Dark Tower series, you may as well just give up now and buy it.  You don't get to find out how the story ends without reading the last three books that you've been waiting for, and this book, to be sure, is a book in that series.  You and I both know you'll buy it, so just do. <br /> <br />But, for the rare prospective buyer who may not have all of the preceding books, or for the odd critic who is looking for something to argue with (as some people do with these things), I'll give my impressions. <br /> <br />To start, this book marks the beginning of a bit of a departure from the standard over the past four titles in the series.  Like it or not, each one of those books felt and sounded different, mostly because there were years of time between each one's release.  This book, and the two that come after, all sound very much the same, which is to say that they sound very different from the first four.  Particularly irksome is the sudden explosion of idiom and slang that starts in this volume (hitherto unobserved in any of the previous books), penetrating the story even to the point that the out-of-character descriptive monologue gets peppered with it.  I don't MIND the dialect, but it does wreck some of the verisimilitude of the story to this point. <br /> <br />Of somewhat greater concern is the fact that this book spends a lot of time to not get much of anywhere.  True--roughly one month of calendar time passes in the story world in the course of this novel.  But the vast majority of that time is spent sitting around, doing and thinking about abstract things and NOT shooting stuff, which is what made the third book in the series as gripping and entertaining as it was.  New characters are harder to find (particularly since King has gotten into the habit of recycling his old characters--those who haven't read 'Salem's Lot might want to give it a go first) and action of any appreciable sort is played down.  This continues a trend started in Wizard and Glass, and unfortunately one that I would rather not have seen go on. <br /> <br />All the same, the story is tolerable.  Things are still happening, though not at a pace that you would expect them to given the fact that only twelve hundred pages remain in the entire series at the end of the novel.  The character development is decently done, and although I didn't find the ending nearly as shocking as some other reviewers have (come now, folks--this isn't going to become The Usual Suspects of the literary world), there was a tolerable twist near the end to keep things interesting. <br /> <br />Not the high point of the series by any means, but good enough for readers who are already invested, and a marginal recommendation to new ones (it's a good step up from The Wheel of Time, if you have to pick a series to start--and this one is finished).	2004-11-05
US	51403759	R1ZYM8USQG7JSV	0553270257	912651978	Lincoln's Dreams	Books	5	91	94	N	Y	A Magnificent Achievement	It's hard to figure on how to write a review for this book without giving anything away.  Suffice it to say, for the short hook, that this is a book that no reader should go without.  Connie Willis takes a hard theme and makes it relatable, understandable, and devastatingly personal for any reader who's willing to accept the book to start with.<br />I'm honestly amazed by some of the negative reviews that the novel gets.  I can understand them, to a point--if you've read Connie Willis before, you may be somewhat distressed by the almost unbroken seriousness of tone and story in Lincoln's Dreams.  This is not funny or amusing in the way that her better accepted stories are (Doomsday Book, for example, manages to maintain a sense of humor throughout the middle of its several hundred pages).  Before you pick up this book, you need to understand that Connie doesn't go out of her way to make the story she's telling easy for you.<br />Nor should she, if you ask me.  I'm willing to go along with everything that Willis lays before me in this story, including the sometimes difficult to understand characters.  You need to know, though, that they are difficult to understand not because they are flat, but because they are decidedly human (and real people can sometimes be some of the most two dimensional you will ever meet, and I'm including literary figures in that analysis).  There are a couple of points in the story where you have to grant Willis some liberties, but for the most part the characters are internally consistent and understandable.<br />The biggest obstacle that this story has is probably its theme--the destructive power of love.  However, I was amazed to find when I took some time to sit back and think about the book that the author had managed not only to relate this fundamental theme to me, but that she had done so without the vitriolic hatred of the emotion that many who would try to address it seem to fall into.  Indeed--the story shows the terrible destruction that love in all its forms can bring upon a person while still maintaining its desirability and its essential goodness.  At the end of the story, you feel the loneliness that the lack of love brings, and I believe that this loneliness is the ultimate expression of the theme that Willis is trying to examine.<br />And the fact that she was able to evoke this in me and show these things to me is what ultimately marks this novel as a triumph for me.  I'm not normally one to be emotionally affected by a story, but Connie Willis has always managed to pull my strings, and nowhere more than in this story.  This is not a happy story (though it is not without wit, as some would have you believe) but it is an important one, and a lesson that any person can draw.  In short, it is a transcendant work that may very well be looked back on as one of the best novels of the last half of the century, and I don't throw that praise around lightly.  At the very least, you should at least give the book a try.	2004-02-03
US	51403759	R29Y0JCV0VD5SB	0743467523	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Borrowed Material	The more I read public reviews, the more I realize how little business some people have in reading a book in the first place.  Before I even begin my analysis, allow me to warn anybody who was around in the seventies and eighties and is perhaps expecting a rehash of Cujo or Firestarter--this isn't it.  This book is not bare gore and tension, as many people continue to expect King's writing to be.  If you want that, you won't get it here.<br />That said, for anybody still considering the book, I'm really not sure what my recommendation would be.  Honestly, when I look at the writing and the story, I can see very little originality in it.  Just for fun, I tried to construct a list of all the things that were taken from previous books, and I couldn't come up with one instance that didn't show up somewhere else.  If you're experienced with King, think of this as something of a combination of It and Tommyknockers, with Tom Cullen tagging along just to keep things interesting.<br />Of course, I should also say that this book is done better than any of those which it borrows concepts from.  While some might call it bloated (I hate to tell you, but if six hundred and change pages is bloat, somebody needs to cut Robert Jordan's hand off), it is considerably leaner than its closest companion in the King library, It, which helps an awful lot.  Doubtless the fact that the manuscript was written in longhand helped in that regard.  The characters and the situation turns out to be very similar to what you'd find in Tommyknockers, but unlike the fellows in that clanger, these ones are actually likeable at least some of the time.  Though the elements may be borrowed, the overall product is far superior to any of Stephen's previous \\"horror\\" stories.<br />All of the usual caveats come with this book, of course.  The characters are fairly two dimensional (although I must admit that Henry is one of the better rounded characters I've encountered in a King novel), you'll encounter more brand names in a night of reading than you would watching television, and the story itself carries a lot of ornamentation that takes up space (mostly about the protagonists' pasts).  It would also be wise to note that this book does, at several points, deal with situations that King chooses to analogize with the image of dynamite going off in a person's corn chute.  You can imagine, then, that this story sits a little on the offensive side of the fence, which means that if you're expecting something like Hearts in Atlantis, you'd probably better keep looking.  I also have some issues with the plotting of the story, since I believe that King plays a rather poor trick in his attempt to resolve the story that is more confusing than entertaining.<br />For all of its shortcomings, I have to penalize this book at least a star, but I still recommend it to anybody who's got a few afternoons to spend and isn't offended by a little explosive anal imagery.  While it is not his best book by a long shot, this is probably Stephen King's best horror novel, and certainly the one which best exploits his talents as an author.and names in a night of reading than you would watching television, and the story itself carries a lot of ornamentation that takes up space (mostly about the protagonists' pasts).  It would also be wise to note that this book does, at several points, deal with situations that King chooses to analogize with the image of dynamite going off in a person's corn chute.  You can imagine, then, that this story sits a little on the offensive side of the fence, which means that if you're expecting something like Hearts in Atlantis, you'd probably better keep looking.  I also have some issues with the plotting of the story, since I believe that King plays a rather poor trick in his attempt to resolve the story that is more confusing than entertaining.<br />For all of its shortcomings, I have to penalize this book at least a star, but I still recommend it to anybody who's got a few afternoons to spend and isn't offended by a little explosive anal imagery.  While it is not his best book by a long shot, this is probably Stephen King's best horror novel, and certainly the one which best exploits his talents as an author.	2003-05-09
US	51403759	R1RZTBD5713WOV	0743436210	692650386	Hearts in Atlantis	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Different King	I'll start this review out by dividing my audience into two distinct groups.  Some of you--I can't say how many--are King fans because that you like slightly gory horror stories.  You'll want to leave now.  You probably won't enjoy this book, and you certainly won't enjoy my review, since I'm not one of that number and find it difficult to understand people who are.<br />The rest of you, I'll assume, are here either as broader King fans or just as inquisitive potential readers, and for you folks I have good news.  Hearts in Atlantis is inded a very good book, and one that you should pick up now.  I've read the book once, been away from it for two years or so, and just recently I've come back to it and read it again, and I'm surprised at how different it is from much of the rest of what you'll find in the King library.  One reviewer remarked that this is a collection of horror stories that didn't happen, and in that sense, he's correct--in every instance in which a character has a choice, in this book, he makes the sensible one.<br />This will disappoint the aforementioned King fans who are just looking for their next slasher fix.  There isn't one here.  What IS here is a very effective character examination, and perhaps a little bit of rumination about the sixties in general.  Truth be told, this is one of the few books about the sixties that I can stomach at all, mostly because King is willing to admit, both to himself and to the world, that all of the protests and conflicts weren't quite the complete ideological war that some still believe them to have been.  The one quality that all of the characters in this book share is their reality--even the supernatural ones (few though there might be).  What moves these people is not some kind of Buck Rogers motivation for the good of all--it's true, basic human desires.  It's rare that you see a cast of characters so authentically portrayed, and I'm very glad to see that King managed to turn his unique storytelling style and voice (which I have always loved) toward an effort that at least approaches &quot;respectability&quot; (i.e. the characters are rounded and three-dimensional).<br />Of course, if you want to hate this book, I'm sure you'll be able to.  Try though he might, King seems unable to ditch his addiction to brand names, and I don't really think that's a bad thing.  The first story is exceptionally long, and will seem extremely strange at points to anybody who's not familiar with the Dark Tower series.  The epilogue seems somewhat tacked on and might have been better left off.  The fourth story is also somewhat out of synch with the rest of the stories in tone, pacing, and plot composition.  If you go in with the intent of latching onto these shortcomings, you won't enjoy this book.  If you do not, however, you'll find a rich and immersive story relating a little bit of what it was like to live in the decade that continues to define the American psyche that you probably don't want to miss.	2003-05-04
US	51403759	R3OTES7L6D5471	0451184963	179012025	Insomnia	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Best and Worst	Of all the many modern authors that write today, few are more frequently typified than Stephen King.  To his critics, he is a windbag with a tendency to bloat who's far too much in love with the sound of his own voice to keep his length under control.  To his fans, he is a masterful storyteller with a talent for creating lively, organic characters.  Both of those poles of King appear in this book, and both to almost as great an extreme as I can remember from any of his previous writing.<br />Let's start with the good.  The characters in this book are wonderful.  While I certainly don't believe that he captures the essence of old age at all (these folks are almost as active as the ridiculous old people they have on television commercials these days), since I don't see the age of the protagonist and his cohorts as being critical to the plot, I'm inclined to disregard that gaping oversight in light of the masterful treatment that he gives all of the characters who people this book.  King's typical narrative voice is also present here, lending the novel a familiar tone that most readers should be able to fall in with quickly and comfortably.<br />The bad.  This book is big.  Very big.  About two hundred pages too big, truth be told.  The thing about the criticism of King's inability to control his bloat is that it's right, and in no other work outside of It is it more apparent than in this one.  Not nearly enough happens in this book to mandate the amount of time you're going to spend reading it.  By allowing the length to spiral out of control, he only makes it that much less accessible to the action-oriented horror base of his audience.  King also drops a lot of brand names here--another frequent criticism.  I personally don't care.  You might.<br />In one notable deviation from King's excellent treatment of his characters, his shallow, somewhat misogynistic understanding of the female psyche rears its ugly head.  I'm not a hundred percent on this, but I'm pretty surethat there's no connection between battered women and lesbianism, as King implies.<br />Most importantly, there's a deep element of this book that is utterly and completely unaccessible to anybody who is not at least passingly familiar with King's magnum opus--the Dark Tower.  Indeed, I would wager that if you haven't read at least the first three books in the series, you're going to be completely lummoxed when it comes to understanding why some of the characters do what they do, or what's going on at all.  Insomnia was penned during a period of Steve's career when he was unable to write a Dark Tower book, even though he wanted to, and that frustrated desire led him, in this case, to write a book that is so intensely mired in that world's mythology that it's nigh on incomprehensible to those not in the know.  I am, so I didn't have a problem.  In fact, I'd say that any Dark Tower fan probably needs to read the book precisely for that reason.  Other, less familiar readers WILL have problems, however.<br />On the whole, while I personally have some affection for this book, I can't give it my unconditional recommendation.  Steven King has written many great pieces that anybody can read (Desperation, Hearts in Atlantis), but this is not one of them.  While King fans will find a lot to like, anybody who's not already fimrly entrenched as a King enthusiast should probably stick to one of his more accessible books.	2002-12-31
US	51403759	R36EYX4UUEHO4M	067102423X	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Superficially excellent	I generally like to wait until after I feel like I've come to understand all of what an author is trying to say in a book.  It's been quite a while since I finished this book.  It's not that the book is overly complex or difficult to understand--in fact, it turned out to be quite the opposite.  This book, on the surface, is a good story told by a great storyteller in fantastic fashion, but just underneath the surface is a great, vapid nothing that will probably confuse you into thinking that it's something more than it is.<br />See, the thing is, nothing really happens in this book, at least not in the way that things are supposed to happen in books.  So far as I can tell, living people were responsible for absolutely nothing here.  The narrator is the primary offender in that regard, spending the entire book as an observer to events, rather than as a participant in them.  The same holds true for almost every other character in the book--nobody really makes a difference until after they're dead.<br />It's this small shortcoming and only this that stops me from giving the book five stars outright and an unconditional recommendation.  The story itself is a well-told mystery that should keep the reader interested up to the very end, written better, I might add, than most books in the mystery genre.  The characters are well-developed, and King's typical knack for weaving together slices of his characters' lives with the events of the story to create a living world is in full effect.  Indeed, for most loyal King readers (the majority of whom could care less about the more existential concerns that are the only real downfall of this book) Bag of Bones should prove to be an enjoyable experience.  As such, I'd recommend it to anybody looking for a superficial read (meaning something not in the same family as James [overrated] Joyce).  If, however, subtler internal plot elements and story construction quirks tend to bother you, the obvious hand of deus ex machina in this story could very well ruin what would otherwise be a great book, as it threatened to do with me.	2002-11-19
US	51403759	R2OZ647G579M7W	0743210891	867268465	The Green Mile: The Complete Serial Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A new high mark	It seems as though Stephen King does his best work when he's forced to do something he's not too familiar with.  Don't get me wrong--I like his regular, run-of-the-mill work (i.e. Christine, countless others), but it just seems as though something special comes out every time he breaks the bounds of his genre.  That's certainly the case here--The Green Mile is a wonderful story that any reader should be able to appreciate.<br />Of course, the story isn't without it's flaws.  Most noticeable is the fact that this was originally a serial novel.  Stephen King may be a good writer, but he's not Charles Dickens.  There are about five or ten pages in here that are nothing more than straight reprints of what you, as the owner of an omnibus, just red not five minutes ago.  That can be annoying--it certainly interrupts the flow of the narrative--but it's not really that destructive to the experience.  Of greater concern is the narrative itself--there's a lot of time jumping, and sometimes it's hard to keep track of just where things are.  That occasionally interferes with the main story of the novel (set in the Depression), interrupting moments of strong flow for dubious reasons.<br />King's characterization is good, as usual, though I do have one substantial objection.  I believe that Paul Edgecomb, the narrator, is as old as he claims about as much as I believe there's a monster running around in the sewers in Maine.  Simply put, he doesn't sound like any old person I've ever talked to.  This is only reinforced by the fact that the voice of Paul Edgecomb, the narrator from the past is, so far as I can tell, indistinguishable.  It doesn't feel as though Paul has changed at all as a result of the events that he's described.  It's certainly not apparent in the novel's presentation.<br />These shortcomings, are minor blemishes at best on the face of an otherwise great book.  I should say that this is in no way a horror story.  Stephen King seems to have outgrown the genre to an extent, and if you're looking for a cheap dimestore thrill a minute type experience (a format some of his earlier writing fits with), you'll likely be disappointed.  If that's the case, though, I wouldn't recommend you read anything at all that he's published since 1996.<br />I would recommend the Green Mile, then, to almost any reader.  While his earlier fans may be somewhat disappointed, anybody looking for a novel that's a little more mature, with some depth and fine characterization will not be disappointed.	2002-09-06
US	51403759	R3MIKL1QQ5H6YL	0451191013	575466033	The Regulators	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Don't take it for more than it is	There's a substantial danger that some readers could misinterpret what Stephen King is trying to do in this book.  The so-called \\"companion volume,\\" Desperation, is undoubtedly among the three best books King has EVER written, and stands as a marvelous and deep analysis of man's relationship to an apparently cruel God.  This book is a Saturday morning cartoon show run amok.  Nothing more, nothing less.  There's no real moral to this story, and I don't think you'll have much success finding anything lying beneath the surface.  And you know what--that's not such a bad thing.<br />Now, obviously there are some problems with the book.  For starters, using the Bachman pseudonym was a mistake.  This is not a Richard Bachman book.  In all five of his previous publications, King followed some pretty strict rules about the way Bachman wrote.  There was a single protagonist, faced with overwhelming opposition, who generally doesn't come out of his conflict alive or psychologically intact.  None of those rules apply here.  In fact, apart from some tonal and organizational qualities (the voice of the writing and the chapter organization), this book bears absolutely no relationship to anything Richard Bachman ever wrote before, and King should be ashamed for throwing out the integrity of his own creation for the sake of this concurrent publication trick he was hoping to pull.<br />The book itself is much more reminiscent of a previous Stephen King work--The Mist--than anything in the Bachman library.  Truth be told, this is the novel that The Mist should have been.  A group of people are isolated together against an unexplained, malevolent force and those people are then compelled to work together to fix the situation.  There are subtle differences, yes, but the essential structure and feel of the two stories are the same, and this book is much better executed.  Even with as little \\"deep\\" content as this book has, you probably won't be able to stop turning the pages until you finish it.  The pacing, plot, and characterization are all well done (though the characters are admittedly a little thin, but who cares in a fantasy oat opera from the planet death?), and there's probably no better novel in the genre with which to pass a few hours.  While I wouldn't recommend it for the squeamish, this story certainly represents one pole of Stephen King at his best--solid storytelling in a vivid environment.  Any fan of Stephen King, or of the horror, suspense, and fantasy/sci-fi genres should be well pleased.	2002-09-04
US	51403759	R1B77OQ4VXV2RW	0451186362	40528119	Rose Madder	Books	4	14	19	N	N	It would have been better if he'd wanted to write it	Between the publication of The Wastelands and Wizard and Glass, Stephen King's career was in a sort of a queer doldrom.  It seems obvious that he wanted to write another Dark Tower book--he admitted to as much in his forward to the latter piece--but he was afraid to continue the series from the point at which he'd left off.  The end result was a short series of books that were ostensibly stand-alone titles, that unfortunately became mired in his rather obvious desire to write about something else.  It is from that period, unfortunately, that Rose Madder comes.<br />The book itself shows some obvious high points.  Now, I'm sure that anybody who's ever been battered (or a woman, for that matter) will find some errors in King's depiction of Rose, but overall, I think it comes out okay.  The characters are all pretty well developed, and all are believable.  Gretta (the Refrigerator Perry lookalike who teaches the women self-defense) may well be the most accurately written female character Stephen King has ever created.  More importantly, King finally seems to have washed himself of most of the borderline misogynistic tendencies in his writing (quite apparent in It) and the queer, and utterly false, association between battered women and lesbianism that showed up in Insomnia.  The good, then, is that Stephen King has managed to transcend some of the views and tendencies that held his previous work back, to create a much more realistic and accurate depiction of the issue he tries to deal with.<br />Unfortunately, this book has a rather substantial downside as well, and that downside is the Dark Tower.  Stephen King is well known for leaving little literary Easter Eggs sitting in his books for the attentive reader, but this amounts to much more than simple egg dropping.  If you haven't read the Dark Tower books, I can personally guarantee that you WILL be confused at some point, and the plot and character motivations will become exquisitely obtuse and difficult to understand.  This'll happen right around the time that supernatural things start creeping in (the section entitled The Temple of the Bull).  It WILL detract from the experience.<br />This problem is only compounded by King's rather ham-fisted handling of symbolism throughout this piece.  In most of his writing, you won't find too much in the way of abstract symbolism.  Steve tries to break that pattern here, and he doesn't do it very well.  I was personally sick of reading the phrase \\"Rose Madder\\" (used to refer to an actual color) around the time I was two thirds of the way through, and some of the symbols he introduces (notably the fox and the tree) are too obscure for even me to understand.  Indeed, this would have been a much better novel if the entire epilogue had simply been sheared off--I can find no discernible purpose behind its inclusion other than confusing the reader.  The character change that he induces in Rosie near the end of the book seems arbitrary and disturbing--an attempt to say something about something, but just what either of those somethings are escapes me.<br />All the same, read superficially, this is still a good book.  The plot is realistic where it should be, and fantastic where it should be, and the whole is spun together into a fairly coherent story.  While the plot may leave those who aren't familiar with King's magnum opus a little confused at points, it's still a good way to pass a few hours, even if it does fail as a conveyer for any message.	2002-08-30
US	51403759	R1PC6MTNO67P7N	0670851086	825628928	Nightmares & Dreamscapes	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Sub-par at best	I will admit to being totally incapable of understanding Stephen King's fans.  It's not that I don't like him.  Owning every book the man's ever published should probably be enough evidence to refute that idea.  It's just that I don't understand what some of these people think when they decide what it is about Stephen King that they actually like.  By any estimation, this collection is easily the worst that Stephen King ever released in his history as a writer, ranking as a failure near the level of 'Salem's Lot.<br />Perhaps the greatest problem with these stories is that most, if not all of them have been done before.  &quot;Dolan's Cadillac&quot; is not just reminiscent of Poe--it is a flagrant, bloated rewrite of &quot;The Cask of Amontillado.&quot;  What's more, it's an uncredited rewrite in the notes--I'll just assume that he missed that one.  Generally, the stories in this book can all be characterized as chronicles of strange events that happen to people for little apparent reason, which can be amusing one or two pieces at a time, but tends to wear quickly.<br />There are still good stories in this book, however.  &quot;My Pretty Pony&quot; manages to capture what King refers to as the &quot;plastic nature of time&quot; very well.  &quot;Dedication&quot; is another fine piece of work that probably ought not be missed by any fan of King's writing.  Apart from these standouts, however, most of the other pieces in the book could be mixed or traded with little or no impact.<br />That's not to say that the book is bad--just a shake overdone.  Although I will be puzzled until the end of my days with the idea that anybody could be held in suspense by a book, if the other reviews on this site are any indication, this book manages to pull it off for those who are looking for it.  The book contains no small number of homages (the only other discernable theme) to other writers as well, which could be entertaining for cross-fans.  In other words, if you're looking for more Stephen King that's no worse than the worst novel he'd written to this point, you won't be disappointed.<br />If you're looking for revelations or groundbreaking work, however, you can easily pass this collection up.  King's talent lies with a particular variety of narrative prose--the long nonfiction piece at the end, the mysteries, and the single poem included only go to convincingly prove that point.  This novel is not good, and not recommendable, for any transcendant qualities, but rather because it is more of the same.  This is, for the most part, Stephen King in his niche.  Fans will be satisfied.  Newcomers would be advised to try a more solid piece.	2002-08-27
US	51403759	R38FN7GZKATPC7	0786918357	625986745	Psionics Handbook (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Good rules, but there could have been more	I believe that I will start this review off by suggesting that you not read this or any other review before you decide if you want to buy this product or not.  They're probably just not going to help you.  If you want to know if there are rules in this book that are clear, concise, and balanced, there are--other than that, how you feel about this source book is going to be entirely a matter of personal taste.<br />I liked it for the most part, myself.  This weird conception of treating psionics and magic as completely different entities has caused more trouble than good in the past (and made it almost impossible to incorporate psionics with an established campaign setting--the hours I spent setting MACs and figuring out how to balance it all still make me cringe).  The new rules system parallels the magic system in third edition almost directly, and that does a lot to keep the psion on par with other characters and get the powers lined up in a row.<br />All in all, this book has a lot going for it.  The rules dovetail neatly with the core books, so integrating them should be simple enough work, the new powers and (particularly) feats are interesting (I would suggest that anybody who finds a psionic character to be underpowered examine just what he can do with the correct choice of psionic feats), and the core psionics rules balance as close to perfectly with the existing rules as can be expected.<br />So what's wrong with the book?  Well, for one thing, the psionic warrior was a bad idea to start with.  This is precisely the kind of hybrid class that was supposed to be eliminated by the free multiclassing rules, and putting one in a supplement book like this just does not set a good precedent.  If there's any element of these rules that could potentially unbalance things, it's the warrior, and novices need to be careful to make sure that this beefy class isn't abused.<br />There's also a little bit too much of an effort to make psionics seem unique.  I suppose it was to be expected that the designers would look for SOMETHING to replace the hideously underpowered rules that had made psionics distinct from magic in previous editions, but renaming every single magic item and skill for psionic characters is just annoying and confusing.<br />The book is also a little on the light side--there's only about half as much text here as in the core books.  That's not a bad thing in and of itself, but there's a lot of space here that could have been used to expand the product.  In particular, I would have liked to see a little more elaboration on prestige classes, how psionics fits into the world at large, and (particularly) an adventure or two demonstrating creative ways to use psionics in a campaign.  As it stands, what you get with this book are the core rules, straight up, and if that's all you're really looking for, you won't be dissatisfied.	2002-05-23
US	51403759	R366GHK1WTF1R7	0451177096	252564915	Dolores Claiborne	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An Excellent Effort	There are a lot of reviewers who have a lot of bad things to say about Stephen King, and unfortunately, most of those things are quite true.  He does tend to bloat for no good reason, he does drop brand names like a corporate rain upon his readers, and he does occasionally have a hard time ending his stories.  It is fortunate, then, that he has been able to so clearly rise above his usual limitations in this novel, and it truly is one of his best overall efforts.<br />In terms of pace and storytelling, I'm not sure that you could say that King has ever equalled this performance.  The book will essentially read itself for you if you'll simply let your eyes do the basic work of wandering across the pages--that's how easy it is to run through this book.  The story is interesting and engaging, and the lead character (in whose voice the entire story is told) is perhaps one of the most likeable that King has ever crafted.<br />Of course, no King book is without its problems, and this one has its fair share.  The one thing that stands out most prominently to me is the pointless cross-linking with Gerald's Game.  I can't see any reason for those mystical interruptions in the otherwise fluid storytelling.  One of the basic rules that most high school and college composition instructors will tell you is to let a work stand on its own.  If King wanted to write two sides of the same coin, he shouldn't feel obligated to beat his audience over the head with the fact.  Let them figure it out for themselves, and leave the confusing linking of fates for the more supernatural books.<br />There are also story holes, and pretty big ones at that.  It's pretty obvious that Steve wanted Dolores to tell this story for herself, but the rationale he comes up for her to do so is pretty flimsy.  A lengthy confession of this sort is in no way consistent with the event that was supposed to have precipitated it.  Maybe I'm missing something, but I don't see a link between the subject that takes up the middle of the book and the one that supposedly compelled the confession in the first place.<br />Also, as a trifling point, I cannot stand the &quot;one chapter&quot; approach to novel writing.  It's really quite annoying.  One of the reasons why I was able to grind through this book in about a day and a half is the fact that there really was no place for me to put it down, and this may annoy readers who prefer to take their books one short section as a time.  That simply isn't an option with this novel, and you need to be prepared for that going in.<br />On the whole, however, the shortcomings of this book are hidden quite well by its nearly flawless storytelling.  While he doesn't make any serious revelations, King does understand and communicate some serious ideas about the nature of love and the effect of the world on people, all without once losing the reader or the story, and that's a considerable achievement.  This is a book that almost anybody can enjoy.  Even his usually foul mouth is a little bit more tempered than usual (though I would again recommend that sensitive readers and parents think about this book before they get anything started).  At the time this was released, it was his best book to date, and it still stands as one of the best stories ever told by one of the best storytellers in modern memory.	2002-05-15
US	51403759	R16Y4BVXFX0CFR	0451176464	591143364	Gerald's Game (Signet)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Better than you might expect	Perhaps the most horrifying moment that a perspective reader could have in confronting the idea of reading Gerald's Game is that time when he realizes that, yes, Stephen King really did write a book trying to confront gender issues.  That just FEELS like a bad match, considering the recent history that King had at the time (It is arguably one of the most misogynistic books I've ever read).  That said, this book isn't so badly done and, contrary to popular opinion, it's not that much of a departure from \\"typical\\" Stephen King.<br />The book itself tries out an old plot device for King--those who have read Cujo may notice a little of the same formula at work here.  The interludes away from the main plot sequence take another form (flashbacks instead of concurrent real-time events), but the structure is essentially the same.  While sticking to a formula might seem to be a flaw for the book at first, it turns out to be one of the novel's greatest strengths.  Cujo was a well paced and plotted adventure, and Gerald's Game shares those qualities with it.  There are occasions in some of King's books (It comes to mind, along with The Stand) where you can sit and read for an hour and feel like you haven't gotten anywhere in the book.  That's not a problem here.  Another nifty side effect of the format the novel takes is that it neatly cuts off one of Stephen King's more maligned tendencies before it has a chance to develop.  Since the number of characters the book can deal with is necessarily limited, there's little opportunity for bloat.<br />The end result is that you've got a solid, if unexceptional book that anybody ought to be able to comfortably pass a few hours with.  There aren't any fundamental revelations regarding gender relations, and the subject matter obviously precludes some readers from picking the novel up (this is, after all, a tale of rough sex gone bad, with a little bit of molestation thrown in for good measure, so you might want to think twice before youlet your teenager read this), but the story itself is concise, taut, and well paced and written.  Long-time fans of King will be happy to see some old characters make cameo appearances (uh huh--Needful Things was the last Castle Rock story....riiiiight), while newcomers will find an engaging story that will entertain the imagination, even if it doesn't engage the higher mind.	2002-05-13
US	51403759	R229COZOD3UB2	0451172817	742574412	Needful Things: The Last Castle Rock Story	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Solid and well-paced--King at his then-best	All things considered, I think that you'd have to say that, at the time this book was first published, this was the best that Stephen King had ever written, bar none.  Undoubtedly, the novel still stands out for its pacing, clarity, and remarkable lack of bloat (I'm a fan and I have to admit that some of his books have been a little longer than they needed to), and it's those qualities that best recommend it to prospective readers.  There's a lot of good in this book, and any casual reader ought to enjoy it.<br />However, the book also suffers from a few problems that might bother some readers.  First, the obvious--we are talking about Stephen King, and that means that you're going to have some severe language, occasional violence, and sexuality.  Very few of King's books have actually succeeded in avoiding those qualities, and while this one isn't the prime violator, it still might not be such a great idea to let your thirteen year old child grab this book off the shelf before you've screened it.<br />More fundamentally, there are some elements of this book that could potentially frustrate tried and true King fans.  One of the most recent criticisms leveled against Steve goes something like this:  he's letting his lazily developing series (the Dark Tower books) dominate everything that he writes.  That is most definitely true of this book.  Those who have some passing familiarity with Roland and his journey will recognize some literary Easter eggs in the novel's conclusion, and the cosmology that Stephen King alludes to is most definitely that of the Dark Tower series.  This wasn't a problem for me--I happen to like the Dark Tower books--but it could be a problem for readers who'd just as well have nothing to do with it.<br />As usual, what King has managed to do in this book is take a story older than the combined age of all his many readers and turn it into something new and entertaining, though, and for that he should be praised.  The characters in this novel (particularly Alan Pangborn, who I myself doubted could fill George Bannerman's big shoes), while certainly not deep (one of King's faults is the fact that his characters almost invariably end up defining themselves on the basis of one or two idiosyncratic traits) are endearing, and any reader of Needful Things will likely find himself remembering Alan, Polly, and Leland after he finishes the book.  The usual King touch for detail is also intact--a fact which combines with his casual and neighborly voice to make this book a very easy one to read.<br />While Needful Things may not measure up to the bar set by later entries in King's catalog (Desperation comes to mind, along with Hearts in Atlantis), the book, taken on its own merits, is an enjoyable last romp through a familiar setting made new, and while it probably won't challenge you to rethink your world view, it should be more than adequate to the task of entertaining a reader for more than a few hours.	2002-05-08
US	51403759	R3DQVTJE1E6VG0	0451170385	887327600	Four Past Midnight (Signet)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Nothing new, but nothing bad	Forging new ground isn't exactly what Stephen King specializes in, so I suppose that it should come as no surprise that most of these stories are going to feel familiar when you slip into them.  Though I'll deal with them individually, the overall impression that I got from this collection was one of familiarity--these are stories that I've heard before, in one case in a setting that I'd seen before, told by a voice I know, and that's perfect for a nice, comfortable read that's probably not going to challenge you.<br />The first story is probably the most daring of the four, and arguably the only one where you won't see the ending telegraphed to you in plain English about ten or twenty pages in.  Overall, The Langoliers not a story that you should be too unfamiliar with.  It's been done before by King in works like The Mist, but he's happily at his best here.  While I had seen the miniseries before I picked up the story, it still managed to keep me entertained with its interesting characters and engaging style of presentation.  While I'm not the sort of person who finds suspense in the written word, there's certainly enough there for those who are inclined, and I suppose you could say that the first story really marks the high point for the collection overall.<br />Secret Window, Secret Garden follows, and when I say that the pieces in the novel follow a wrote path, I'm really talking about this piece right here.  I'm not complaining--I've been known to read the same book two or three times, so I'm obviously not averse to a familiar plot.  All the same, this is about as formulaic as you'll find Stephen King.  His strengths, however, are still there--the characters are interesting and engaging, and the plot manages to be just novel enough to keep the interest of most readers.<br />The trend continues in The Library Policeman in almost precisely the same fashion.  Though this one follows a different formula, it's still a formula, and again the strengths of the story are in its characters, and particularly in the short excursions that King takes from the plot to develop backstory on his characters.  The old drunk's story in particular should elicit tears from some readers.<br />The final story in the collection is The Sun Dog, and King all but admits that this one won't stand on its own.  The strangest element, however, is that it does stand on its own fairly well.  For that matter, aside from a fairly oblivious plot tie in, I'm not sure how this fits into the &quot;trilogy&quot; that ends Castle Rock (I'm currently slogging my way through Needful Things).  The story itself is probably the most original and innovative in terms of plot, and Pop Merill is arguably the most interesting character in the entire book.  I've certainly got a soft spot for Castle Rock, so I may be a little prejudiced towards this story, but it was my personal favorite.<br />On the whole, this collection isn't going to stimulate you to think much or reconsider your worldview--that's not what Stephen King was about at this point in his career.  It will, however, enjoyably pass a few hours for you, and maybe give you a few characters to remember fondly (or not so fondly in some cases), which ultimately ought to be the purpose of most good books.  Those readers who might typically be encouraged to avoid King should probably be so warned here as well (there is a particularly objectionable scene in The Library Policeman), but all others will find in Four Past Midnight an enjoyable, if not particularly stimulating, collection of stories that should keep the eyes and the imagination busy for a couple of plane rides or long stretches in the office.re in its characters, and particularly in the short excursions that King takes from the plot to develop backstory on his characters.  The old drunk's story in particular should elicit tears from some readers.<br />The final story in the collection is The Sun Dog, and King all but admits that this one won't stand on its own.  The strangest element, however, is that it does stand on its own fairly well.  For that matter, aside from a fairly oblivious plot tie in, I'm not sure how this fits into the &quot;trilogy&quot; that ends Castle Rock (I'm currently slogging my way through Needful Things).  The story itself is probably the most original and innovative in terms of plot, and Pop Merill is arguably the most interesting character in the entire book.  I've certainly got a soft spot for Castle Rock, so I may be a little prejudiced towards this story, but it was my personal favorite.<br />On the whole, this collection isn't going to stimulate you to think much or reconsider your worldview--that's not what Stephen King was about at this point in his career.  It will, however, enjoyably pass a few hours for you, and maybe give you a few characters to remember fondly (or not so fondly in some cases), which ultimately ought to be the purpose of most good books.  Those readers who might typically be encouraged to avoid King should probably be so warned here as well (there is a particularly objectionable scene in The Library Policeman), but all others will find in Four Past Midnight an enjoyable, if not particularly stimulating, collection of stories that should keep the eyes and the imagination busy for a couple of plane rides or long stretches in the office.	2002-05-07
US	51403759	R13QXHZPMTPP7I	0316771635	93729948	The Millennial Project: Colonizing the Galaxy in Eight Easy Steps	Books	3	19	33	N	N	A faulty argument posited vehemently	Marshall Savage is a professor of English for USC and he shows it remarkably well in this attempt, both in stylistic form and in his utter disregard for the total validity of his theorization.  Now, I'm all for space colonization--as a practical concern, it's pretty much inevitable at this rate of population growth--but this supposed \\"plan\\" shatters the bounds of believability and catapults off into its own miniature cosmos of happy dreams and blissful ignorance.<br />As a work of fiction, an editorial position piece, or generally anything other than a work of science, this book would have far fewer faults, but as a serious scientific position, it's utterly without grounding, and that has to hurt it in final analysis.  Just to examine a few of the questions that have to be dealt with before we can even get off the ground in Savage's analysis:<br />What effect will OTECs have on the overall climate?  He relies powerfully upon them as a source of limitless energy to power his half-baked plans without ever asking the basic question of what happens when you increase the ocean's heat capacity.<br />What effect will OTECs have on indigenous ocean life?  Phytoplankton are neat because they let you live.  You get rid of them and you put everybody in a serious bit of trouble.<br />How do you construct a laser powerful enough to alter the course of a multi-ton mass driver slug that is mobile enough to trace its path through the upper atmosphere and what environmental impacts would such a device have?  Once again, we're ignoring the practical effects of this \\"plan\\" so that we can skip merrily along to the stars without thinking about what we're saying.<br />Time and again throughout this book, rather than attempting to present an argument and legitimately back his position, Savage simply asserts the most ridiculous, outlandish theory that he can dig up and moves on with his work.  I've read the Gaea books--they don't imply the conclusions that Savage tries to draw.  Plastic bubbles in space have the decided problem of severe vulnerability to micrometeoroids, and it's expensive enough to get a tungsten lightbulb fillament, much less build an entire suit out of the stuff.<br />I could go on, but I think you get the point.  This book is not legitimate science, seven hundred endnotes or not.  Savage starts from illegititmate assumptions and only gets worse.  As a piece of rhetoric, the book isn't exceeded anywhere that I've seen.  I've fallen back many a time in a debate round on Savage's poorly constructed but vehemently asserted arguments to some great success, so if you're just looking for something to cut up and put in an argument and you're not particularly worried about validity (in other words, if you are a debater), this is a book for you.  If you're looking for a serious scientific effort, however, that has even the slightest hope for validity, I'd give this volume a wide berth and stick closer to folks like O'Neil or Zubrin.	2002-02-22
US	51403759	R2ZTQVQ77GM4O	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Where to begin....	There's a lot to this book.  One would think that would be obvious, simply based on the sheer size of the thing, but the fact of the matter is that this story also covers a remarkable span of theme and quality in its groping quest for...well, something, because this is certainly different from much of what King wrote around the time this was published.<br />To start, the good, and there is plenty of it.  The novel itself tells a story that manages to be compelling and suspenseful (as suspenseful as a forum where you manage the pace yourself can be, I suppose) throughout, which is probably good enough for most die-hard readers of King.  The characters themselves are fairly endearing, though they're certainly more than a little two-dimensional at times.  On the whole, the book would be fairly average, however, were it not for the occasional flashes of brilliance that King shows in his writing.  One you may want to look out for is Mike's father's description of the burning of the Black Spot, but most of the historical interludes manage to find a special level of storytelling that set them apart from the rest and achieve the degree of quality that shows up in King's later, better work (Heats in Atlantis, Desperation, etc.).<br />The book isn't all warm fuzzies, however--there are some serious problems that some readers may have with this novel.  First off, though I hate to say it, the length is a problem.  This is basically two books in one, since King sets out to tell completely two complete cycles of conflict between the children and Pennywise, and when you add that to King's general tendency to bloat a little, you've got a massive piece of work.  What's more, the organization will probably throw some people--I hate having to pay attention to datelines to know what timeframe I'm in.  Fortunately, this isn't as big a problem as it could be, and I managed to keep up perfectly well, but it still may be a concern for some people.<br />Now, I'm not easy to offend, but evenI have to admit that he went out on a few limbs when he wrote this book for no apparent reason.  There are some undertones that some would label misogynistic, and one particularly distressing scene near the end concerning Beverly and the rest of the group.  I certainly wouldn't recommend that just any teenager be allowed to read the novel, and any overly sensitive adults might want to reconsider before they give it a shot as well.  Additionally, the characters are sometimes so defined by their various outcast traits that they strain the bounds of believability, which may keep those approaching the book from a skeptic's perspective from fully enjoying the experience.<br />Overall, however, you have to consider what audience is likely to read this book in the first place.  There are some King books that I would recommend to anybody.  This is not one of them.  If you've read other work by Stephen King that you like, you'll probably find this book right up your alley, and if you're in the market for a good old fashioned horror read, you won't be disappointed.  Ultimately, though, the novel's riskier moves probably serve to alienate any readers outside of King's usual &quot;fan base,&quot; so if you're looking for a first book by Steve, I'd point you towards Desperation or Hearts and Atlantis before trying to tackle It.	2001-12-17
US	51403759	R32ZWI58PT85K2	0451167317	877287899	The Dark Half	Books	5	24	29	N	N	Simplicity can be bliss	Sometimes, Stephen King can be complicated.  Desperation, for example, is quite possibly the best examination of Christian morality that you'll find in popular fiction (or anywhere, for that matter), and Misery manages to construct a fairly accurate, if obvious, allegory of the writer's relationship with his fans.  The problem that these novels have, of course, is the fact that the message can, at times, interfere with the story, which (let's admit it, folks) is what a lot of people read Stephen King for.<br />We don't have that problem with this particular book.  For once in his long career, Stephen King managed to maintain the authoritarian discipline over his more verbose reflexes to write a story that was JUST a story.  He doesn't let himself get sidetracked with backstory, theorization, or philosophy--his first and only focus is to tell the story from beginning to end, and that is just what he does, in masterful fashion.  For those of his readers, like myself, who enjoy these literary sidetracks, this can come as a bit of a disappointment (though not much of one), but for people who like to simply dig into their books and forget all that coffee shop, art undergraduate bull [...], this is right up their alley.<br />This presents a bit of a delimma to me, then, since I generally enjoy reflecting on the deeper message and understanding that King is trying to convey in these reviews.  There is one here, sort of--while I don't quite agree with George Stade's view (I think that he might just be weaving some of this from some pretty thin thread), there are some statements to be read about the author's relationship with himself, if you're of the mind.  The great thing about The Dark Half, however, is that you don't HAVE to go looking for these things.<br />In that sense, I really have to say that this is one of Stephen King's best books, at least in terms of the discipline and focus that he brought to the writing.  You can see elements of Richard Bachman in this novel(the style is fairly reminiscent of Thinner, a much poorer effort) alongside King's usual voice and presentation, and the combination works out well in the end.<br />Don't get me wrong--there are knocks to be made against this book.  Most of these are of the usual variety for King--the ending is weak, brand names seem to pop up with every odd sentence, etc.  Fortunately, the good of this novel far outweighs the bad, in the end.  All things considered, I'd say that this is a book that would be good for ANYBODY, dedicated King fan or not, to pick up to simply take an afternoon or two off or pass a long plane ride.  While you may not remember it for the rest of your life, it should certainly keep you entertained, and maybe even give you something to think about in the process.	2001-12-17
US	51403759	R10EVA9HCNOP4C	0451188462	562576523	Desperation	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent on several levels	Desperation isn't your run of the mill horror novel, I'll give you that much.  To be sure, it has an engaging plot, interesting (if confusing--I suggest putting something between this book and The Regulators if you're not good with names) characters, and good atmosphere, but the element that I was most impressed with was Stephen King's mastery of theological discussion.<br />God has showed up time and again in King's writing, and generally it's an element with which some subset of his readership is not satisfied with.  In The Stand, people complained when God saved the day because they thought that it was traitorship to the story, for example.  Indeed--the very idea of melding notions of Christian faith with such a decidedly fatalistic genre would seem to be a little half-cocked.<br />Fortunately, King seems to understand some things that less educated reviewers have missed.  Even within the Christian community there are a lot of different stances on what God is and how He interacts with the world.  King, however, understood that the specific problem that existed between his writing and the notion of God lay within the problem of evil, and for people interested in that tired old theological debate, this book provides another level of interest.  In a sense, Desperation is very much like a modern retelling of Job, incorporating old ideas with contemporary culture, and even (in one of its weaker creative moments) setting out the formula for the relationship between man and the God of Job.<br />That said, if you're strictly allied with your religious views or consider them to be an intrinsic element of your life, you may not be comfortable with this book.  Ardent atheists will likely be threatened by King's fair address of one of their central criticisms (the argument from evil), while contemporary Christians may be uncomfortable with his construction of God.  While this book has all the familiar and attractive King elements, it is also a book about God, and that's something to keep in mind if you have a vested interest in the issue.<br />Overall, I'd say that this is probably a good read for most anybody who'd willingly pick up a Stephen King novel.  It is a bit more graphic than some of his more recent fare (probably his worst yet in that regard), but overall he provides an interesting story, engaging characters, and an interesting take on an old discussion.	2001-10-11
US	51403759	RZ1JPLY00H636	0761530185	217172529	Pool of Radiance: Ruins of Myth Drannor: Prima's Official Strategy Guide	Books	5	6	7	N	N	One of the best	This truly is one of the better guides I've seen in a long time.  With Prima being the larget producer of such books, I generally approach these manuals with more than a little wariness, since the experience is generally hit-and-miss, but I have to say that the Prima guide for Pool of Radiance efficiently and effectively covers all the bases that a good guide should.<br />The centerpiece of the guide is the walkthrough for the game, which is fairly well written.  Of course, considering the fact that this is a Dungeons and Dragons game that they were writing a guide for, they probably didn't have much trouble ahead of them (random encounters are rare, and the guide itself is written like a book and paper adventure key).  The maps they provide are well rendered and easy to follow in most cases, and the occasional side tips that they offer are helpful, for the most part.<br />One thing that I would have liked to see is a little more focus on character creation and subjective advice from the book's editors.  As is so often the case with these sorts of guides, the sections on gameplay are little more than reprints of the game documentation.  A greater number of sample characters, some expanded elaboration on character design, or another fully illustrated sample party or two would have been a welcome aid.  The point of these guides, after all, is to allow the player to more completely experience the game, and it seems as though a lot of potentially useful material in that regard has been cast off.<br />On the whole, however, the guide is still exceptional, with complete coverage of every location or encounter in the game and, if not exceptional, a respectable amount of character creation advice and explanation on elements of the gameplay rules.	2001-10-08
US	51403759	R12OL9VSOO6I3K	0451168615	717487152	Skeleton Crew	Books	4	2	3	N	N	For the Good Times	I'm giving this book four stars, but please don't take that to mean that this book is a good experience from beginning to end.  It's not.  There are some decided low points in this collection, but the ups outweigh the downs by a long shot.<br />Night Shift, King's first collection, suffered in a lot of ways from being an up-and-down sort of collection.  There were a few really good stories, a few truly terrible stories, and more than a few that were just kind of in the middle.  With Skeleton Crew, King has moved away from that middle and divided his stories a little bit more completely.<br />The opening piece deserves special mention, as it takes up roughly a third of the book on the whole.  The Mist is a fan favorite, but I have to say that it left me feeling a little unsatisfied.  King has addressed all of the ideas that he brings up in this story much better in other work (specifically The Regulators), and that led me to look at this story as little more than a slightly bloated piece of dimestore horror.  More likely than not, I'm suffering from the reflection of better, more mature work, but all the same, I think that The Mist may be a little oversold by the fans.<br />The rest of the book, as I've mentioned, is an up and down affair.  There's actually quite a bit of science fiction rolling around in here by King's standards, and unfortunately most of it really isn't that great.  The two stories that rise to mind as I write this piece are Beachworld and the Jaunt, both of which really aren't much from the fiction perspective and are completely off from the science take, as King admits in the afterword.<br />I recommend this book, however, on the weight of the good stories that have been included.  Pieces like Mrs. Todd's Shortcut and The Reach are more than worth the investment in time and money that this collection demands.  At his worst in this writing, King still manages to tell interesting and involving stories, and at his best he provides masterpieces.  Forthe most part, this collection should keep the reader entertained throughout (though the inclusion of the two poems is a bit questionable--all they did for me was illustrate why Stephen King doesn't write more poetry).  Any reader should buy this collection for the masterpieces, but expect to enjoy the experience throughout.	2001-09-17
US	51403759	R2KUSFDU80XVYE	0786915528	342936691	Monster Manual: Core Rulebook III (Dungeons & Dragons)	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	3 stars with an asterisk	Okay, now, in evaluating this particular rule book, I think that I need to make my standards clear.  This isn't just another collection of monsters--this is the core collection.  What the Monster Manual should do is set up the standards for all future expansions and make clear the monster specific rules that they're including.  As it stands, this book is pretty unclear on some issues.  The templating rules can be hard to understand the first time around, and there's little information given on how to create your own templates without throwing the game out of balance.  The feats which are included here seem out of place to an extent, since other abilities and feats for monsters have already been described in the Dungeon Master's Guide.  The monster descriptions are acceptable for the most part, but bland, without any of the character and flavor of past editions.  While this should be expected to some extent, what is not excusable is the occasionally confusing description of monster attacks and the occasionally odd listing style.  Even the art has suffered in this book to some extent--while most of the pictures are right on, some of them are pretty far off base (a shambling mound does not have bark). All in all, I feel pretty safe giving this book 3 stars, since you have to own it to run the Dungeons and Dragons game.  As a core rulebook, however, it leaves something to be desired, and its certainly below the exemplary standards of clarity set in the previous two releases.  While this is still a good rules system and while the Monster Manual is a necessary element, I can't help but feel a little disappointed with this product.	2001-08-22
US	51403759	R1QAFLZVUNZ05Y	0451167538	734693861	Different Seasons (Signet)	Books	5	108	111	N	N	One of his best	Sometimes collections like this can be hard to judge.  Most of the time the author will have ups and downs, with one story that may appeal to one audience and another which appeals to a different one.  Different Seasons, however, manages to provide a good body of work that should appeal to just about everybody.<br />To be clear on the content of the book, this is actually two novellas and two short stories--both Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption and The Breathing Method are both on par with such classics as &quot;Bartleby the Scrivener.&quot;  The format of the book is perhaps a little hokey--the stories follow the seasonal theme--but ultimately that artistic touch is irrelevant to the real appreciation of the book, at worst, and endearing, at best.<br />The stories themselves are excellent, a fact attested to by the production of three major films based on the first three of these pieces.  The first presented is Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption, and of them all, it's probably the best on the whole.  The characters in the story are well written and, all things considered, it's really just a fine story with a positive message that you might not be used to seeing in Stephen King's writing.  Second is Apt Pupil, which is more reminiscent of King's usual subject matter and tone, but still manages to provide an engrossing and interesting view into the nature of evil and the parasitic relationship that a man can develop with it.  The Body is probably the most endearing of all the stories in the book, even if it is the roughest in terms of production.  With a reflective, old-man-on-the-porch-in-the-sunshine voice, King is able to relate this tale of the loss of innocence and the passage into adulthood.  The final tale is actually reminiscent of other, older authors than King.  The Breathing Method uses several old tricks of such superluminaries as Melville and Hawthorne in its presentation, and manages to wrap an entertaining story around an allegoricalexamination of the writing process.<br />Taken as a whole, this collection is truly one of the most excellent efforts that King has ever put forth.  While he still does tend to bloat a little (a complaint many have about his novels) in the middle two stories, all of them manage to create an atmosphere wholly their own and to take the mind of a reader away to another place, which, as King says in the afterword, is his first and highest goal.  While little new ground is broken in the themes King analyzes, the themes themselves all still bear examination.  His storytelling is at its height here, and this is a book that all readers should pick up at one point or another.  It may not be horror, but that, in this case, cannot be said to be a failing, as King showcases his cross-genre talent.  A truly fantastic book.	2001-08-17
US	51403759	RG38Y0KOW52H6	078691551X	812062848	Dungeon Master's Guide: Core Rulebook II (Dungeons & Dragons)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A New Approach	It's about time for this rewrite, but there are a lot of Dungeons and Dragons veterans who aren't going to be satisfied with this volume of rules.  It is in this dissatisfaction, however, that these rules provide their greatest service.  The core rules Dungeon Master's Guide must be written, first and foremost, with the novice DM as the intended audience.  In that regard, the 3rd edition incarnation of the DM's Guide excels.  This guide provides rules and advice on everything that a beginning DM should have a question about, and what's better, it provides suggestions and tables in a lot of cases.  Now, some veteran DMs will tell you that these tables are worthless or even counterproductive, but these DMs are forgetting their younger days, when even they couldn't come up with workable, balanced adventure ideas.<br />This is a guide that most players and DMs should grow beyond, but that is as it should be.  The rules changes that have been made have been made well--the experience system is clearly and rationally laid out, and the new magic item rules should indeed lead to an increase in PC production of those wonderful devices.  The writing itself, while slow at times, remains readable throughout, which is a good thing, since any starting DM should read the book cover to cover.  Frankly, I'm glad to see the breaks that this new guide takes from the 2e model, which provided comparatively little information distinct from the Player's Handbook.  While the sections on world building, campaign organization, and adventure design could certainly have been more extensively fleshed out, as they stand they are excellent building blocks.<br />For veteran DMs, this is probably a good pick up, but one that you can put off for a while if you've got a real feel for game balance.  However, I wouldn't chance it--these rules may feel similar to the ones that you've run in the past, but the balance has been changed and tweaked in ways that may not be readily apparent.  For the freshmanDungeons and Dragons game master, this book is a must have, and it should provide no small amount of invaluable knowledge.  All things considered, this is an excellent guide book for DMs of any age and experience level.	2001-08-15
US	51403759	R1ET2K8HHZSB1Q	0451194861	511631376	Wizard and Glass: Dark Tower IV	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	A little bogged down	Don't get me wrong--this is an excellent piece of writing, as writing goes, but compared to the plot development and movement from The Wastelands, this book has to be considered a little bit of a slow down.  That's not necessarily bad, and King does a good job of crossing into yet another genre in his writing here, but for fans of the series, the apparent halt in plot movement might be a bit frustrating.  All the same, the story told here is told beautifully.  I'm not a big fan of Westerns, but even I have to admit that this is a pretty good story, considering.  It's not the best in the series by any evaluation, nor is it King's best writing ever, but it IS one of the first times that King honestly explores a positive emotion (though he can't resist incorporating some negativity into it).  The work is really commendable, though I wouldn't necessarily recommend the book to a casual reader.  For those interested in the Dark Tower series, the writing of Stephen King, or the Western Romance, this book is an excellent addition.  For all others, it should be a good read, though it may leave the audience behind at some points.  All in all, top notch.	2001-08-13
US	51403759	RDIRRQR67FQ7Q	0451173317	511631376	The Waste Lands (Dark Tower)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	In many ways, the high point of the series to date	I was first introduced to Stephen King by way of the Dark Tower series, and so those books hold a soft spot in my heart, I must admit.  While some of his other writing has more literary strength than his epic series, nowhere else is his storytelling talent as richly developed and exploited, and this book is the height of that talent.  The Wastelands is a rare accomplisment--a truly fantastic book.  Now, I don't mean fantastic in the evaluative sense, but in the qualitative--King does a masterful job of weaving the real and the imaginary to make a world that inspires wonder from the reader.  In an age where fantasy writing is beginning to go the way of The Wheel of Time, that's to be appreciated.  There's something magical in the arbitrariness of King's Midworld, and he's to be commended for that.  The characters are as deeply described and fleshed out as in any of his other good work, and it is in this novel that the greatest deal of present-time plot movement occurs in the series (seeing as the first book was a collection of stories, the second the description of the composition of his crew, and the fourth a flashback, I suppose that makes sense), and that means that here the story telling talent that shows itself in so much of King's best writing shines.  This is an excellent book not just for the Dark Tower fan or the King reader, but for any literary enthusiast, though it is only safe to warn you that the series can become addictive.	2001-08-13
US	51403759	R3U7Z83P1UMAM5	0452279615	511631376	The Drawing of the Three (Dark Tower)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	The Vegan Triumph--Satisfaction Without Any Meat	This is another of the Stephen King volumes that I've reread a couple of times, and rarely is his storytelling capacity equalled or exceeded than in his Dark Tower books.  Such is the case with this novel.  The Drawing of the Three is engaging and entertaining--the story is well planned and well told, and all things considered, as a simple, relaxing read this is a fine volume.  If you're in search of deeper meaning, I'd suggest you try one of King's other novels--The Stand and Desperation are both excellent examinations of Christian faith, for example--because there is little literary meat to be had in this story.  That is of little concern to me, however, as King's voice and his storytelling prowess shine through.  Strongly recommended to anybody interested in fantasy literature, and a good book for any avid reader.	2001-08-07
US	51403759	RBWW3CESJC6RK	0451197879	321732450	Roadwork	Books	5	83	88	N	N	There was bound to be a split decision on this one	There are really two classes of King readers.  The first are the early-career lovers.  These are people who like suspense (though I have yet to learn how you get that from a forum where the subject controls the pace) and raw plot motion, and there's nothing wrong with that, but it's definitely not a very rich or complete approach to take.  The second group are the late-career fans of work like Hearts in Atlantis and Desperation, who generally give a more deep and introspective read to the work and aren't as concerned with things moving along at a brisk clip.  For those who may be wondering, I am probably best classified as one of the latter.<br />The first group will hate this novel.  Rather than being a continuously moving story about a collection of things happening to people, Roadwork is essentially an examination of the destruction of one man.  And let me tell you, that character examination is SUBLIME.  The only character that I have read in a King work who was clearly better defined was Johnny Smith from The Dead Zone, and this book would best be compared to that earlier work.<br />There is very little to be bored with in this book if you're not worried about things always happening.  If you are, you might be better advised to move on and leave this one alone--there aren't a lot of bodies or explosions.  The atmosphere and characterization, however, are superb.  I read this as part of the Bachman Books, which have regrettably been taken off the market as a set, and I was impressed by the depth and expression that King managed in this side-project (not reflected in his other work under the pseudonym).<br />There are problems with this book, though.  For one thing, it is absolutely mired in the seventies.  Younger readers may get lost trying to relate to such a thing as an oil embargo.  To some extent, that intrinsic association holds back the novel by keeping the contemporary reader from truly getting a feel for the environment, but it didn't hurt me too much (and I was born after the whole embargo thing was resolved).<br />I find nothing more refreshing than seeing an author liberating himself from a genre where he had previously been caged up, and King does that in this book.  Instead of incorporating elements of fantasy, as he is so often wont to do, he stuck with reality in this story, and it pays off.  You can see the faces of some characters you encounter further down the line, as well, particularly in the mobster (who later became a character in Thinner, after a name change and some tweaking, I imagine).  This is a masterpiece of TRUE Stephen King writing, and I don't miss the usual fantastic elements at all.  I'd recommend this for anybody looking for a good read.	2001-08-06
US	51403759	R1XMMZRUG46DFX	0451161343	137038717	Thinner (Signet)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	This one's a little confused	I can go ahead and put my finger on what's wrong with the ending for you, but that'll have to wait until after I get through the preliminaries.  It's really unfortunate that this was the last Bachman Book, since the next one was supposed to be Misery.  In terms of raw storytelling and characterization, this is pretty much on par with King's average, but the construction of the book itself is severely lacking.<br />This book is either intended to be a pretty bad story or a pretty confused tragedy.  I cut it some slack and gave it three stars as a confused tragedy.  The problem with this story in either incarnation is a truly terrible cast of characters.  Generally speaking, you want your story to have a protagonist.  This one doesn't, really--you can't identify with the gypsy because he's a jerk, and you can't identify with Billy because he's a cringing fool who refuses to take responsibility for anything.<br />It's that flaw that led me to think of this story as a tragedy--Halleck's tragic flaw does eventually lead to his own downfall, as well as a number of other people's.  As a tragedy, the book isn't so bad, especially since tragedies really aren't written any more.  The problem that it faces here, however, is that there is absolutely no denoument.  You jump directly from crisis to....nothing whatsoever.  The story ends quite abruptly, as it had to, considering the way King wrote it, and that doesn't work for a story where there's supposed to be some manner of catharsis.<br />Don't get me wrong--at least one of the characters is truly charming (the mobster), and that's to be envied, but even he can be hard to understand.  This whole novel seems to have been written with little thought given to the direction that King wanted to take with it, and it shows in the final product.  This isn't a bad book, but it's not one that I'd recommend to anybody other than a tried and true King fan.	2001-08-06
US	51403759	R2GH6ADDJMBFGM	0451197968	321732450	The Running Man	Books	3	0	0	N	N	And a car goes into the crowd!	To this point in the Bachman Books (where I originally read the story), King had been steadily improving as his alter ego.  This was definitely a step back.  King himself said that he thought that this was probably the strongest piece from the collection, since it didn't bother itself with a message (an outright lie, since there are obvious criticisms of America's voyeuristic society contained within the piece), a statement which really puzzles me.<br />The story here isn't told exceptionally well--I don't see it as being up to King's usual standards.  The chaptering is actually a little hokey, and has almost nothing to do with the actual plot of the book (a minor problem, but something which bothered me to no small extent).  The story itself is uniformly depressing--there is no catharsis in this work.  Just like at some points in the Talisman, the bad just builds and builds until everything comes to a bad conclusion.<br />All things considered, this isn't a really reprehensible work, but it disappointed me, after seeing just what King is capable of.  This is a story that most authors probably wouldn't have written, for that matter--it would seem to conform better to the dimensions of a short story.  As a read for a short airline flight, it fits the bill, but if you're looking for meat, it's just not there to be had.	2001-08-06
US	51403759	R399Z50TE1LWY9	0670691992	122553244	The Talisman	Books	5	13	20	N	N	Not bad for a collaboration	Okay, now, I'm giving this book five stars, but lets not rush to consider that Seiler's Official Mark of Flawlessness, because this book is far from flawless.  I'm a pretty wide reader of Stephen King (I own every piece of fiction he ever sold bound, and I'm working through them chronologically right now), and I can tell you that you won't recognize a lot of the voice that you're familiar with in this piece.  That's a result of the collaboration, I suppose, but Stephen King's storytelling style--his literary voice--is diluted and mixed with Straub's.  That's not a bad thing, but just be prepared to read something that sounds a little more like Eyes of the Dragon than The Stand.<br />Of greater concern is the fact that the plot of this book has alredy been done by King--this book is the short version of the Dark Tower, a quality which make's the upcoming Black House's address of the Crimson King and the Breakers all the more amusing.  There are a LOT of parallels between the two works--more than I could really list here--but suffice it to say that I was impressed as I read with how little this felt like an original work for King, but only a reinterpretation of something he already had swimming around.<br />That's not to say the book is bad--I am, after all, giving it five stars.  The imagery is excellent and the story is interesting.  The story does have a tendency to get bogged down in negative imagery, however--a crime that a novel this long should try to avoid.  At points, I felt a little like I was reading Less Than Zero instead of a King/Straub book, a fact which was made all the more remarkable by the low attrition rate among major characters.  All the same, be prepared for some heavy, bad atmosphere to hang around the book.  This is a pretty good device, considering that one of the themes of the book is the desecration of the pristine or beautiful, but it is, perhaps, a little overused.<br />The only other major complaint I could see anybody voicing would be regarding the characters themselves.  Jack Sawyer and Richard Sloat aren't really very believable.  For a twelve year old boy, Sawyer's psychology seems a little out of whack, and Sloat's own psychological profile seems a little charicatured.  All the same, I didn't find it to be too much of a problem, myself, and I thoroughly enjoyed the read.  This isn't King's best ever, and I can only assume that it isn't Straub's either, since collaborative works tend to have that effect, but as a book on its own, it's still good enough to go in any collection, and should certainly be in any King enthusiast's library.	2001-08-06
US	51403759	R2L37FE7OUD2DS	0451160916	966329377	The Shining (Signet)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Not quite the high point of his early career	The Stephen King library certainly has its ups and downs--often faulted for inadequate finales (in some cases, i.e. The Stand, without cause) and occasional overlength, but there is little question that this is one of King's better novels by far.  In terms of raw story telling, this is actually a peak in King's ability to create true suspense in his readers.  That's harder to do that it sounds--a novel can be pursued at the pace which the reader chooses, which means that it takes more than a little talent to broadcast the sort of tension and suspense that King wants to deliver here.  He manages a fairly masterful job, however, for which he is to be commended.  This is one of the books where everything came together for him--his characterization is still excellent without straying into extraneous areas of his characters' lives, the plot moves at a proper pace, and the story ends as well as any you'll ever read.  Since I figure that most folks are reading this book more as a leisure activity than a study in literature, I'll reserve my judgment on the thematic overtones, but suffice it to say that King also offers a fairly superlative literary effort in this novel as well.  Strangely enough, this doesn't rank as one of my favorite King books, primarily because of the vague unease that it awakened in reading it (a rare occurence for me), but it is an undeniably good read, and ought to be picked up by anybody with the time and inclination.	2001-07-31
US	51403759	R2KJXXSDOHGNJ2	0451160525	511631376	The Gunslinger (Dark Tower)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Don't believe the bad press	And let me tell you, this book gets a lot of it.  Frankly, it's really over the heads of some readers of King's popular fiction, mostly because this was written off and on between projects all the way up until its release.  That gives the book a bit of a disjointed feel, to tell the truth, not within the individual episodes (there are six), but between them.  All the same, the story and the writing here is wonderful, and should be appreciated by any fan of King or writing in general.<br />Some of the negative reviews may draw their roots from confusion regarding the book itself--King doesn't do a good job explaining himself.  Frankly, I'm thankful that he didn't.  In a world where all the new fantasy reads like Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time, magic and the fantastic seem to have been discarded in favor of a kind of warped science.  Don't get me wrong, I liked Jordan until the novels stagnated, but I didn't realize how much I missed NOT KNOWING how everything worked until I read this book.<br />This story is full of the fantastic above all else.  Walter, in particular, is a memorable character who I hope receives a treatment in the second &quot;flashback&quot; book of the series.  The intertwining of popular culture (I can't here Instand Karma without thinking about the chasm scene) with King's own fantastic elements in Mid-World (a play on Middle Earth?) are at their best in this book, rivaled nowhere expect possibly The Wastelands.  Even the philosophical jaunt into metaphysics taken in the sixth episode smacks of the fantastic, and it's wonderfully executed.  All things considered, this would be a wonderful read even in itself, and it stands apart in the Dark Tower series as exceptional.	2001-07-31
US	51403759	R2XH9JBML8T4WJ	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Refreshing my outlook	I'll confess that I used to be a rereader.  It's a habit that I've lost lately, but for some strange reason, I've made my way entirely through all thousand-and-change pages of this novel three times so far, and every time I'm impressed by the depth and effectiveness with which King accomplishes his task.  This is a book that anybody interested in Stephen King ought to start with--this is where he first began to describe the fantastic and outlandish in the fashion that his fans have become so accustomed to in his later work, and this is undoubtedly one of the must reads in the library of King literature.<br />All that said, this book is far from perfect.  For one thing, it is an exceptionally long work, even for a novel, and that work is split into two almost completely unrelated books.  While King masterfully melds the apocalyptic events of the first half of the book with the examination of Judeo-Christian faith in the second, it's certainly understandable why some would view this book as bloated.  For my money, I like the changes and additions made in the uncut version--while The Kid certainly isn't crucial to the plot of the story, his presence has its own point and contributes to the overall religious theme of the story.<br />There has been some criticism of the ending of the book, so I should comment on that specifically.  I can personally guarantee that this book not only ends well, but it ends in the only way that it possibly could, considering the theme.  I won't spoil it for new readers, but suffice it to say that those who would criticise the book for &quot;ending weak&quot; are simply not reading any deeper than the most superficial level of the plot.<br />All things considered, this book is one that anybody had ought to read.  Nowhere else in contemporary fiction is there a better examination of Christian faith (save King's own Desperation), the characterization is in full keeping with the author's marvelous talent in that regard, and the plot, while longand meandering, always manages to stay in proper motion and keep to the theme.  A good read for anyone.	2001-07-31
US	51403759	R3HUIIOWJ4DF87	0451160444	467915322	Christine (Signet)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Thank God something good came out of Trucks...	&quot;Trucks&quot; was one of the worst stories King ever wrote--maybe the only one almost universally hated by his fans--but we can all be happy that it at least laid the groundwork for this novel.  It's not the best King has ever done, to be sure, but it's certainly better than you might expect going in.  This isn't just a story about some psychotic car--if it were, it'd be a much less noteworthy read.  What the book is, however, is an interesting examination of both adolescence and the nature of hatred with the interesting backdrop of the supernatural.<br />Again, King's characterization is the first thing that I noticed as I worked my way through the book.  The only weak spot in this department is in Arnie Cunningham, but since I can't really come up with a way by which King could have better written him, I'm not inclined to fault him for it.<br />The plot of the book is MUCH better than it might sound at first (&quot;Oh, a psychotic car--well, isn't that frightening...&quot;), and though it does hit a confused, slow point in the middle when the narrator switches off, it generally maintains a fairly consistent pace and progression.  Again, this isn't King's best, nor would a passing reader be likely to find it particularly noteworthy, but for the student of Stephen King, or just a person looking for a good read, this is an excellent book.	2001-07-31
US	51403759	R390H4WL3R3K0R	0451170113	722345215	Night Shift (Signet)	Books	4	13	28	N	N	Still not his best	As a dedicated Stephen King fan, I was somewhat ambivalent about this book after I finished it.  To its credit, there are a few good stories to be told here, but there are just as many truly awful ones that probably never ought to have seen print.  You can see what King would later become, but those spots can seem few and far between when you're mired in the desperate struggle to understand The Lawnmower Man.  But, specifically:<br />Jerusalem's Lot--Talk about a confusing title.  Named after another book that he had already published and written a sequel story to in this volume, this story has nothing whatsoever to do with 'Salem's Lot.  It's a pretty good indicator of the overall quality of the book, though he doesn't stay true to the letter based format that he opens with, and would have been just as well served by a narrative.<br />Graveyard Shift--I don't understand any of the motivations here, and that ruins the story for me.  The incipid hatred between the protagonist and the foreman seems utterly baseless.  C+ at best.<br />Night Surf--Is it just me, or didn't stories used to have beginnings, middles, and ends?  This is a middle without anything around it.  Add to that the fact that it's basically a precursor to the Stand (note that in the Stand, the disease didn't originate in the wild), and you've got some confusion.  Nonetheless, it is reminiscent of the events of the first half of that great book, and can be recommended on that basis.<br />I Am The Doorway--Okay, now here we have a relatively unoriginal concept (being taken over by forces you can't control) given a nice new twist.  One of the better efforts.<br />The Mangler--Oh look, more confusion--it's the Blue Ribbon Laundry from Roadwork.  Just another argument for reading this before you start any of King's other work, I suppose.  All the same, while this story is certainly implausible and a little hard to grab hold on, it's not bad.  B.<br />The Boogeyman--This is a fan favorite, but not so much one of mine.  It probably is the best achievement of the book--it just doesn't rub me the right way.  Nonetheless, it is still an excellent piece of short fiction.  A.<br />Gray Matter--I wasn't really satisfied with this.  The sort of King short stories that I prefer are the ones that are remotely plausible--this one is not.  It's adequate fiction, but nothing to write home about.  B.<br />Battleground--First of two absolutely idiotic pieces of prose.  It reads like the script to a bad animated horror movie.  F.<br />Trucks--Worst story ever for King, bar none.  This is so implausible as to be laughable, if it weren't told with such a serious and grounded tone.  Obviously the precursor to Christine (a much better book), this story lacks any of the reasoning or thought that was put into that work.  Trucks go crazy and kill people and nobody knows why...oh well, you can't win them all.  F-.<br />Sometimes They Come Back--Now we're back into the swing of things.  This story is a lot better than the others to date, and contains a lot of the character development King's fans have come to expect of him.  The ending fizzles a little, but it's not the worst.  A-.<br />Strawberry Spring--Here, King manages to write a story with good atmosphere, characterization, and plot.  Unlike a similar story (The Man Who Loved Flowers), he also avoids sounding as though he's imitating Poe in the process.  Probably the best story in the book, and certainly one of the best closing lines in King history.  A+<br />The Ledge--I just like realistic Stephen King; that's probably why Hearts In Atlantis is my favorite story from him yet.  This is a nice story that stays at a good constant emotional level and gives exactly the right amount of backstory and development.  A.<br />The Lawnmower Man--All that I can say is, &quot;Huh?&quot;  I read this story three times in a row and I still don't understand what any of it means.  This reads like something a drunken frat boy wrote after he got done watching the Exorcist and eating a salad.  F-.<br />Quitters, Inc.--It amazes me that fewer people have examined what this story has to say about the process of kicking an addiction to begin with.  As a story, it's still wonderful, and as an examination of addiction, it's even better.  A+.<br />I Know What You Need--Just what everyone is most afraid of--meeting somebody who's absolutely perfect for them.  No, wait a second...I was disappointed with this, not only because it seems rather implausible (even in a fantastic reality), but also because the reversal occurs a little too quickly and the primary villain in insufficiently dealt with.  D-.<br />Children of the Corn--This is okay.  Not good, not bad, but okay.  C.<br />The Last Rung on the Ladder--So many people are going to be disappointed with this story because it has absolutely nothing to do with horror.  All the same, it's the best story in the book, and it really carries an emotional whallop that you might not be used to finding in King.  This is reminiscent of his pathos at its best (see Pet Semetary).  A+.<br />The Man Who Loved Flowers--This story is fairly hackneyed, but still well done.  For some reason, it reminded me of Poe, though he wasn't famous for his plot turns.  Compared to the other big twist story, this one is executed better, but lacks the well developed atmosphere.  A-.<br />One For the Road--Here's the REAL sequel to 'Salem's Lot, which unfortunately spends a lot of energy to go absolutely nowhere.  D+.<br />The Woman in the Room--He doesn't end on his best, but he doesn't end with his worst, either.  It's fairly well told, I suppose, but the subject matter is nothing new, which translates to nothing impressive.  C+.	2001-07-27
US	51403759	R2IKACXOPK3ZLG	0452277752	321732450	The Bachman Books: Four Early Novels by Richard Bachman, author of The Regulators	Books	3	1	11	N	N	Very different	I think that the best way to characterize these books would be to look at the reviews.  People who have liked these books have also generally appreciated books like 'Salem's Lot--I take this to mean that these people have very little taste for the finer points of literature and are after only a story (which Lot still didn't provide very well--King misplaced some of his characters and abadoned a promising start, but that's for another review).  If that's what you're in search of, you should be adequately satisfied here.  As these books progress along a timeline, the presence of a story begins to become more and more evident.  But, let's go one by one.<br />Rage:  By most standards, this book is really quite bad.  It's obvious with it's point and decidedly unrealistic in its depiction of the students, their reactions, and the school system in general.  King occasionally departs from reality even further in an attempt to make a point, as with Charlie's interchange with his psychiatrist.  Overall, though, I found this story engrossing for reasons that I can't quite explain.  I took an interest in Charlie, perhaps because I had a similar adolescence, and so I cannot call this book a complete failure, though it is a decidedly sophomoric entry.<br />The Long Walk:  Another obvious effort to get a point across.  Both of these first two books were written before Carrie, so my conclusion is that King was probably naive enough at this point to think that an author deliberately went about inserting his message into his work.  Perhaps he read Atlas Shrugged one too many times (a feat like that is difficult to duplicate).  The analogy between the Walk and life is obvious, but still entertaining, and the story maintains a consistent pace and interest.  At this point, the books are getting better.<br />Roadwork:  The best in the collection, by my standards.  King still tries to make a point in this one, but he does so with a realistic character (at least at first blush) and a muchlighter hand.  Contrary to some reviewers, I found this story to be engrossing and entertaining, despite the fact that it was the only one of these books that I didn't read in a single sitting.  King's natural talent for creating characters that the audience can relate to and feel for shines through in this book, and I'd recommend it even outside of the collection, though it is a little too mired in the environment and conditions of the late seventies for some younger readers to relate to.<br />The Running Man:  Here there is an abrupt dip in the message factor of the book (something that King admits to himself in the introduction).  This is a story, plain and simple--there's no overtones to be had, just pure science fiction.  As &quot;just a story&quot; the book is okay--it's decidedly predictable, and there's nothing new here for anybody who has even a passing familiarity with this sort of book (the apocalyptic, social control dystopia book), but it still manages to be entertaining in the fashion that most King books do.  This is a book that most authors would not have written--I think that almost anybody else would have written it as a short story--but it still manages some entertainment value.<br />Overall:  This certainly isn't the best work King ever did, primarily because Bachman died before he finished developing as an author.  Some of the books are decidedly sophomoric, but most King fans shouldn't be too disappointed.  For the casual reader, I'd say that this is a great book to pick up for an air trip or a lazy afternoon if you can find it (due to issues with the Columbine shooting, Rage, and The Bachman Books as a corollary, have been taken out of publication), but it isn't what you'd call &quot;serious reading.&quot;	2001-06-04
US	51403759	R2YJ3PDREMVYUA	0451196716	882393531	The Long Walk	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Getting Better	This was the second finished novel Stephen King ever wrote, and it does show some marked improvement over his first effort (Rage).  The premise is, of course, a bit unlikely--the chances that America would ever come under rule of a totalitarian regime could have been said to be slim even at the time that the story was written.  This tends to make what I believe King's point in this story was a bit obvious.  The Long Walk is a metaphor for living--The Major would be God (receiving the adulation of the people who he &quot;torments&quot;), and that, of course, makes for some interesting thinking as to Stebbins' role in this book, but the analogy can continue with relative ease from there.  This doesn't make the book bad--in fact, since he was so up front about the book's underlying meaning (a concept that King was still naive enough to think of as a product of authorial intent) that allowed him to create an interesting and engaging story.  For the casual reader, this is a book that will both provoke thought and provide entertainment.  For my part, I read it in a single sitting (it only seemed appropriate), and all things considered, I can say that I genuinely enjoyed the book.  In view of that, I'd recommend this book to most readers--the only people who should have substantial issue with the writing would be those overly philosophical types who demand that all art have a statement but that it be in no way explicit about saying what it has to say.  A good read to be had by all.	2001-05-29
US	51403759	R2HR7HZYBNV0LX	0451166582	487763765	The Eyes of the Dragon	Books	4	2	4	N	N	I'm a little confused	I can see elements of Stephen King in this book, I really can, but they seem to be muted a bit. The story reads a bit like a fairly tale ...which is to say that the voice of the narrator is a shake condescending and you can see where the plot is headed from a mile out in fog, but the biggest problem I have with this novel is that it's difficult to tell that it's Stephen King who's telling the story. One of my favorite qualities of his writing is the voice that he uses to tell his stories, and while that voice isn't gone in this one, it's definitely been altered to affect the atmosphere of the book. While I wouldn't say that this is a bad read, it's not what I would consider conventional Stephen King by any means--good for fans, but if you don't follow him closely, you could miss this one with no regrets.<br />One explanation for this apparent change in voice may be the fact that this book was supposedly written for children, though I find it hard to believe that even Stephen King could think that the phrase &quot;flacid penis&quot; had ought to be in any grade schooler's vocabulary.  In truth, this story really does stop at being a fairy tale--the depth and development that many people are used to in Stephen King simply isn't here.  Of all the main characters, only two or three are given real attention, and I was surprised to find that when King actually chose to keep his attention on telling a single story, I was disappointed at what had been left out.  As a story, this book is just fine, though it may show itself to be a little obvious and hollow to some readers, and as an artistic piece there's very little to recommend it.  Overall, I'd say that the only people for whom this would be a must read are students of King concerned with getting the whole picture (the scenes and characters of this book show up in Dark Tower [Flagg] and The Talisman [the two headed bird], and maybe elsewhere, since I'm only about three eighths of the way through his career).  For all others, this is fluff at best--though good, there's certainly better in King's library and in others'.	2001-05-29
US	51403759	R2UNHFZE7QQNRK	0451076451	116097775	Rage	Books	4	2	4	N	N	It might never have happened	It's true--this novel probably wouldn't ever have been published had Stephen King not been lucky enough to release it under his Richard Bachman pseudonym.  The novel, to be truly frank about it, is really quite immature.  The behavior of most of the characters irreflective of reality (in a room where a man has just been shot, SOMEBODY'S going to have a rather severe reaction), the characters tend to be a little two dimensional, and the novel is obviously trying to make a statement or two about psychology and the human condition.  Those aren't really attractive qualities under normal circumstances, but for some reason I found myself enjoying this book.  I actually read it in a single sitting, and I have to admit that I found the story engrossing.  Charlie will feel familiar to more than a few people who might decide to read this book, as will some of the other students who show up throughout the story, and having just recently left my adolescence behind I am perhaps a little bit closer to the feelings that run throughout the novel (here King's immaturity actually helped him out, though it is ironic to think that if a student were to be caught writing something like this during his senior year of high school in this day and age he'd be expelled and institutionalized).  The book certainly isn't politically correct, and it's understandable why King would take it out of publication--he really comes dangerously close to making Charlie some sort of hero and trivializing the deaths that do occur throughout.  All things considered, though, if you can get your hands on it this isn't a bad book to read, and it's not even King's worst effort.	2001-05-25
US	51403759	R3UD03KSX2XULN	0671039741	165977133	'Salem's Lot	Books	3	2	4	N	Y	One of his weakest	To say that this book is one of Stephen King's weakest isn't the same thing as saying that this book is bad--far from it. The story is entertaining and his storytelling style is wonderful. Of all his books, however, I think that this one suffers from the most problems. My biggest beef is the near about face that the story takes about halfway through--the first half of the book consists of a few hundred pages of great character development and backstory (which could be considered boring by some, but not me), while the last half of the book reads fairly close to a straight rewrite of Dracula. After finishing the book, I couldn't help but wonder what I'd gone through the first hundred pages for in the first place, since they have little or no bearing to the resolution of the novel itself. One of the main characters is decidedly lacking in development (though the most likely explanation for that is that it ended up on the cutting room floor, since you read a couple of deeply fleshed out encounters with our young hero early on, but leave him behind as the narrative continues), while another is overdeveloped--how much do you really need to know about a person who basically vanishes just as soon as events really start rolling? Basically, the book suffers from a feeling of disjointedness, as though the author was trying to do a little too much with what he had. On the one he's trying to develop the characters into interesting and engrossing individuals, while at the same time he's attempting to retell a classic story and keep the plot moving at a certain pace. Perhaps if King had tried to simply tell his story, rather than building up his characters to no real benefit, the novel would be a stronger piece. As it is, the book isn't a bad read, but it's not one that I'd strongly recommend to anybody but the devoted King reader.	2001-05-15
US	51403759	R137VA6MF9MK0W	0451162072	639916239	Pet Sematary (Signet)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I'm torn on this one	I really am, to tell you the truth.  This seems to be precisely the sort of practice that King critiques in Misery--a wonderful story with a great theme suffers because of the debt that King owes to his readers to make the story &quot;scary.&quot;  The first four fifths of this novel are a wonderful examination of mortality and the impact that that concept has on the human condition.  King really seems to have a great handle on the emotions that he deals with--I found myself moved to tears (and you would know this to be an exceptional occurrence if you knew me) at more than one point remembering losing my own father.  If King had somehow contrived to do nothing more with this story than relate those ideas, I would ecstatically give this novel five stars. Just conveying that message, however, isn't enough for Stephen King, especially at this point in his career.  The last fifth of the novel falls into a predictable routine (well, mostly, but I'll get to that a bit later on), introducing a lot of negative imagery and events for no apparent reason outside of trying to get a scare out of the audience.  Particularly distressing is this attitude regarding how ambulatory corpses act--I saw a movie in a local store a few months ago that sums it up precisely:  &quot;The Dead Hate the Living.&quot;  As the novel proceeds toward its conclusion it seems like King throws away a lot of the ground that he makes with regard to what I think is probably his central theme to adopt instead a group of hollow popular conceptions about death, horror, and how a story is supposed to be told.  None of this is to say that the story itself is bad, mind you--King's storytelling is as good as ever, and somebody looking for a book to simply lay back and kill a few hours with probably wouldn't be disappointed here.  I am haunted, however, by visions of what could have been with Pet Sematary, and that keeps me from giving is a perfect rating.	2001-05-15
US	51403759	R2TLQRX4UGSISG	0451169522	916592852	Misery	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Maybe a little obvious	If literature classes in high schools and colleges around America ever decide to actually study King, this is probably the book that they'll decide to use first.  It seemed fairly obvious to me that this may have been the intention as I read this novel.  In terms of simply storytelling, the book is interesting, if not as gripping as some of his other works, but on an allegorical level this book is just a little too easy to have been created through random chance.  The story is about an author who is held captive by his audience and forced to write pulp fiction, which he considers beneath him, and after a certain amount of exposure, his hatred for his pulp creation blinds him to the point that he's no longer able to be objective about his own work (represented by his inebriation upon finishing Fast Cars), which leads him further into his symbolic captivity.  I'll admit that at first I was turned off by the apparent thrust of this allegorical message--considered superficially, King appears to be lamenting the fact that he can't write just whatever he wants and have the public lap it up and thank him for the privelege.  Upon deeper inspection of the novel I realized that that wasn't his statement, but some readers could be turned off by the superficially self-serving appearance.  King has been accused of being more than a little obvious when trying to communicate a message in his stories (take The Tommyknockers and Insomnia for examples), and this book is no different, but in this piece his message is actually fairly insightful and it's delivered in a very interesting (if obvious) manner.  Of course, if you're only looking for a good story, the novel has that as well, though it does bog down on occasion and the narrative occasionally gets ahead of itself, forcing King to relate certain events in &quot;flashback&quot; fashion rather than simply integrating them into the flow of the narrative.  Ultimately, I would recommend this book for anybody simply because there's something here for everybody, and it's probably something good.	2001-05-15
US	51403759	R36AF2ZNTYVHEU	0671039725	769595666	Carrie	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	The very first	Strangely enough, Carrie may be as far as Stephen King ever deviated from straight narrative storytelling in his entire career.  It's not very far at that, but it is far enough apart to make the story interesting and engaging.  Rather than simply following a course of events, King frequently breaks the course of the narration to include excerpts from various fictional publications regarding the event that the novel itself revolves around.  The method is effective, mixing technical discourse on telekinesis with the emotional content of the story to draw the reader along.  In keeping with another common theme of King's work, there's also no real &quot;villain&quot; involved in this story, simply a confluence of forces yielding an undesirable conclusion.  The end result is that this story feels very real.  Compare Carrie, for example, to 'Salem's Lot, with it's singular villain at the lead, and you can see the difference.  While the Lot may be charming, it is this story which carries (no pun intended) more impact to the reader simply because it hits closer to home. This book isn't perfect by any stretch of the imagination, though--don't get me wrong.  While it's truly amazing for a first publication, it's still more than a little rough around the edges.  It fortunately does not suffer from King's occasional ... of the word processor, but the storytelling style and voice that became more and more evident as Steve's career developed is much less apparent in this story. Who would I recommend this book for?  Well, as usual, the book is good for anybody who has some time to kill and wants an engaging story.  King has been occasionally accused of overdeveloping his backstory, but I think that in this case the backstory is integrated well into the overall story, allowing it to stay engaging, rather than dragging in places (as, say, Insomnia might).  Parents may or may not want to steer their children clear, as it does include some rather frank discussion of menstruation, andthe book itself concerns itself in a higher sense with the trials of puberty, but there's not much here that I would find objectionable.  All things considered, the only thing that stops me from giving this piece five stars is the fact that it does feel just a bit rough around the edges, without the flow and fluency that is typical of King's later work.  Overall, however, a wonderful read.	2001-05-15
US	51403759	R2PT6PQ9XE2Z5A	0451155750	497098217	The Dead Zone (Signet)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Working chronologically	I'll admit that I was a little thrown at first by this book.  I came across this one while I was working my way through a chronological review of King's literature, and this one happens to fall behind what most people consider to be his masterpiece, The Stand.  To be sure, The Stand is an excellent book, particularly with regard to the method by which it blends religious issues with contemporary tone and plot matter, and there was a lot of plot matter to blend with. The result was that this book left me feeling a little empty at first.  There just wasn't as much there as I was used to.  This was a bit of a departure for King--his previous two novels had been a little bit removed from the more intimate, individual picture that you're given in this book.  The ultimate truth, however, is that this book is not just believable, but memorable. I'm not sure how he hit the nail on the head so well with Johnny Smith, but this is perhaps one of the best characters that he's ever crafted, and I mean ever.  It's often difficult to relate to the situations that show up in King's writing (really, now, how many of us have been sucked into an alternate reality by a demon living in the body of a small boy or survived a nation-slaying plague), but in this book Steve manages to blend the unknown (psychic power) with the familiar (the world we live in) with startling effectiveness. Basically, I have to give this book five stars if only because I still find myself thinking about it sometimes.  The characterizations are all excellent, and the ethical issues that form the heart of the novel are certainly worth considering.  Most of all, this book makes you feel as though you're actually reading about a man living in a world, instead of a world going on around a group of men.  Events are written in a way that sound believable and very similar to our own world--it's worth noting that this was the novel debut of his Castle Rock setting, in a move that I found particularly interesting.  The story about the Castle Rock Strangler blends effortlessly into the rest of the plot, forming a rich backdrop against which Smith's mind and predicament can be showcased. Now, it's worth noting that the movie translation isn't worth have a crap on a crutch.  In fact, I think I pretty much owe that movie for the fact that I can no longer think about Smith without attaching Christopher Walken's startling features to him (even though that was not how I originally envisioned him--I thought more of a person who was, um, you know, likeable), or Martin Sheen with the book's &quot;villain.&quot;  Overall, this is a fine piece of literature that I would recommend for any reader with a little bit of time available--you won't be disappointed.	2001-05-07
US	51403759	R2L9D8C8HN5PMQ	0786915501	633963573	Dungeons & Dragons Player's Handbook: Core Rulebook 1	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Definitely the best rules to date	When designing a game, there are two rules to stick to.  The first is to make it interesting, or else nobody will play.  The second is to remember that it's a game.  With the first edition rules, TSR pretty much ignored the first rule, opting to make more and more overpowered character templates, ultimately making the game far too large and unwieldy to use.  With the second edition rules, they forgot the second element--I'd rather read most of the second edition rules than try to use them in the game--and the game became equally difficult and unwieldy.  Now, just maybe we finally have a system that can stand on its own and still be deep and interesting. These are certainly the best base rules I've ever read for any gaming system, bar none.  The classes are balanced and the rules are clear and easy to understand.  Most of all, a lot of the arbitrary restrictions (which most DMs ended up waving anyway) from 2nd edition are gone now, giving you the freedom to create the character that you want and cutting back on the house rules phenomenon that was encouraged to destructive levels with previous editions.  I own most of the supplementary products that they've released to date as well, and I still think that I'd prefer to stick with the base rules--they're interesting enough as they stand, and they make the game much easier to play than it has been in the past.  While the presentation can get a little hard to deal with at times (those lined pages only through me once or twice), overall this is an excellent product, and a great new edition.	2001-05-07
US	51403759	R3SYTI9N3ZD66B	0451156609	803978188	The Tommyknockers	Books	4	1	2	N	N	This is a tough one	I'm currently working my way chronologically through the work of Stephen King, mostly in an attempt to observe and catalog the rate at which he introduced Dark Tower concepts into the rest of his writing. Right now, I'm not really sure where I sit on The Tommyknockers. I've certainly read worse books, that had the problems that this one purportedly had to much greater degree. Cujo, for example, didn't go much of anywhere but rather spun a tremendous amount of backstory for no reason, which is a problem this book tends to develop at points. Misery seems a little too close to alegory for comfort (and if it is, he really needed to get over himself at the time he published it). Little problems, nothing big. So what about this book in particular. Well, I think that this is probably one of the few books that I would classify as the personification of Stephen King. His style comes through quite strong in this writing, and I personally enjoy the short trips through the backstory that he takes at points. Reading it, I couldn't help but be reminded of 'Salem's Lot, which bears a lot of superficial resemblance to this book--perhaps this was his effort to clean up and make deeper a piece of work he wasn't satisfied with the first time around. Overall, I wouldn't call this a must read by any stretch of the imagination. I'm a fan of King (not of his horror or his fantasy or his Dark Tower books but HIM and his writing), and I'd recommend this to any other fans out there who have yet to read it. People who aren't too familiar with his work may be mildly annoyed by the references back to The Dead Zone (Johnny Smith) and It (the clown in the Derry sewers) and Firestarter (The Shop, and just as a side note, how is it that nobody in this story which supposedly continues in the same universe heard about a little girl who could basically destroy the Earth?), but it shouldn't get in the way too much for a determined reader. If you're looking for meaning, I don't think you'll find it. Even the material on nuclear power (which would have been a fairly obvious political effort, if that had been the motive) plays with the hollow emptiness of the zealot, probably because most of it is half true and melodramatically constructed. Fortunately, politics is not King's point in this book (I really don't know what that reviewer was talking about). As a fan, I'd give it four stars, as a casual reader, probably closer to two and a half.	2001-05-07
US	51403759	RKDS8WK7O1VKN	0451161351	381306153	Cujo	Books	4	0	0	N	N	12 year old reviewers....man, kids these days	Wow--I'll admit that I think that this book might be a little mature for a 12 year old, not because of any great degree of violence or gore (which I have yet to find distressing amounts of in any of King's work), but rather because one of the primary plot elements of the novel is an adultrous affair one of the main characters pursues with another.  Nonetheless... I don't know what to think about this book.  I am really one hundred percent bamboozled here.  I know from a little bit of research that the book was written in a drug induced haze, and that King himself doesn't remember most of it, but believe it or not that may have actually helped the presentation of the material.  The actual horror elements are a little difficult for me to pinpoint here--in particular, the presence of the demon in the closet is something that's just not clicking for me, or what that has to do with Frank Dodd (who, if I remember, was dangerously insane but never actually meant any evil in his actions).  I would say that this is a pretty good piece of work--rather than constructing some sort of outlandish backdrop for his novel (like he does in the Tommyknockers or 'Salem's Lot) this is a very believable piece of writing, and the emotions and events are very easy to relate to.  I suppose if I were doing a critical analysis I'd be tempted to try and tie all the disparate elements of the story together, since they do seem to just be heaped into a big bag and thrown at you--what the dog's owners' trip down South has to do with the price of beans isn't readily apparent.  Overall, however, what this really reads like is a good story, which is all it really needs to be.	2001-05-07
US	51403759	R2PUUU3G4GE5IN	0451161351	381306153	Cujo	Books	4	0	0	N	N	12 year old reviewers....man, kids these days	Wow--I'll admit that I think that this book might be a little mature for a 12 year old, not because of any great degree of violence or gore (which I have yet to find distressing amounts of in any of King's work), but rather because one of the primary plot elements of the novel is an adultrous affair one of the main characters pursues with another.  Nonetheless... I don't know what to think about this book.  I am really one hundred percent bamboozled here.  I know from a little bit of research that the book was written in a drug induced haze, and that King himself doesn't remember most of it, but believe it or not that may have actually helped the presentation of the material.  The actual horror elements are a little difficult for me to pinpoint here--in particular, the presence of the demon in the closet is something that's just not clicking for me, or what that has to do with Frank Dodd (who, if I remember, was dangerously insane but never actually meant any evil in his actions).  I would say that this is a pretty good piece of work--rather than constructing some sort of outlandish backdrop for his novel (like he does in the Tommyknockers or 'Salem's Lot) this is a very believable piece of writing, and the emotions and events are very easy to relate to.  I suppose if I were doing a critical analysis I'd be tempted to try and tie all the disparate elements of the story together, since they do seem to just be heaped into a big bag and thrown at you--what the dog's owners' trip down South has to do with the price of beans isn't readily apparent.  Overall, however, what this really reads like is a good story, which is all it really needs to be.	2001-05-07
US	51403759	R1DCXU87H6AFOM	0670315419	250944357	Firestarter	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Not his best, by a long shot	Cujo, if I remember correctly, was written in a drug induced haze.  This book, however, is the one which reads more like that.  It's not that this is a bad piece of literature--it's a fairly well crafted premise by any standard.  It just doesn't have the &quot;pop&quot; that some of King's other work possesses.  Where his best work either recreates the universe in the image he desires (The Stand, the Dark Tower series) or fits seamlessly into the world we know (The Dead Zone).  This book is outlandish and unbelievable by any stretch.  That doesn't make it bad, but it does deprive it of a lot of the impact that some of King's other work holds. Overall, all the elements that you'd expect to find in a Stephen King book are here.  The characters are, for the most part, fairly deep, and he spins the story with his usual talent and flow.  While the existence of The Shop and the nature of Charlie's talent may be a little tough to swallow, he pulls them off fairly believably.  If you're looking for a novel about psychic ability (of which I consider this one of the best, even to the point that I'm thinking about using some of his ideas to alter the game rules of some role-playing systems) than you need look no further.  If you're looking for a deeper meaning, however, or a classic, you need to try some of his better work. Just as a side note, I do find it amazingly difficult to believe that nobody noticed this little girl after the final resolution at the end of this book, if we're to believe the Tommyknockers.  I think King may have some explaining to do on that point.	2001-05-07
US	51403759	R1AUYRO6MHBG8P	0312117337	964365469	Osho Zen Tarot: The Transcendental Game Of Zen	Books	5	76	88	N	N	Voice of an outsider	As is my usual practice, I'll preface this review with the disclaimer that I am not what you would call a professional practicioner of the tarot.  The cards are nothing more than a hobby for me--one that I picked up after becoming intrigued with tarot during my reading of the Illuminatus! trilogy.  Since then, I have begun to collect decks a few at a time, but I treat the entire pursuit more as an entertaining hobby than any kind of lifestyle. That being the case, you might think that Osho Zen Tarot would run a little roughshod across my sensibilities.  After all, these cards are designed almost specifically for meditative purposes, and I'm not the sort of person who's real likely to put in that sort of time. That's really not the case, I've found.  In fact, I'm not even sure that I'd call this a tarot deck--most tarot cards are designed with at least some divinatory capacity in mind, while these focus more on personal reflection and an exploration of the self. The cards have been reworked to a great extent.  Both the major arcana and the minors have been rewritten and reordered--I have a hard time even relating this deck and other tarot decks.  It is because of this difference that I cannot recommend this deck to beginners--not only is it vastly different from every other set out there, but it's probably also not what you're looking for to begin with.  As usual, my recommendation for beginners is to stick with the Rider-Waite or another deck done in the style, but this one's probably not up their alley. The cards themselves are fully illustrated, with keywords printed at the bottom for aid in interpretation.  The court cards are indistinguishable from the rest of the cards in the suit, except for the presence of directional arrows at the bottom of the card instead of a number.  The trumps are numbered, but don't appear to directly correspond to the majors of other tarot decks. One thing should be noted before purchasing this deck--Osho can rub some people the wrongway.  Reading the book, some of what was included for aid in interpretation was useful, and some was a little disturbing--reminiscent more of cult rhetoric than real guidance for life.  The ostensible purpose of the deck is to relate Zen and tarot--not being a practitioner of Zen, I can't say how well that's been done.  The inclusion of a twenty third trump, however, should be reflective of the tone and attitude of Osho--the twenty third trump is labeled the master, and his picture is plastered all over it. I'm really not sure what to make of this deck, all things told.  I am glad that I own it, and I think that any collector of the tarot will definitely want to add this to their stash.  I'm not so sure about these cards' utility for divinations, but for personal exploration I expect they should work very well for most people.  If you can put up with a little bit of arrogance from Osho, than this deck is probably a good investment for you, with beautiful artwork and an interesting take on the tarot.	2001-04-25
US	51403759	R3MOYV19I4FZ08	1567181821	840496844	The Celtic Dragon Tarot Kit	Books	4	38	53	N	N	Voice of an outsider here	I'll admit up front that I am not what you would call a devotee of the tarot.  I had always known what they were and the general nature of how they are used, but it wasn't until I read the Illuminatus! trilogy by Robert Anton Wilson and Robert Shea that I picked up any real interest in the habit.  Even now, I only have a casual stake in the cards--it isn't something that I do every day, nor do I think I can find the meaning of my life in a deck of cards.  I do this for fun, and I think that gives me a little bit different perspective than some people might have. The first thing that you'll notice when you open the box is that the cards are beautiful.  My complaints about the book which will follow notwithstanding, this set is worth the price for the cards alone.  The only objection I could hope to muster is the fact that my particular pack was apparently mishandled by the US Post Office during shipping and the cards arrived warped--it's been quite an expirament trying to get them straight. The book, however, is another matter entirely.  I'm not sure who D.J. Conway is, exactly, but I'm sure she's not for me.  This book commits the twin sins of speaking to too narrow an audience and apparently being written entirely for commercial gain.  The section containing interpretations of the cards really is laughable.  It reads as though they took a set of the production notes Conway made before the project and decided to add them to the accompanying book to make it a little bit beefier.  The guys in the marketing and editing departments of Llewellyn should be ashamed of themselves for that--they've done exceptional work in the past (most notably the Robin Wood deck), and they really dropped the ball in that area of this product. Of course, that's not the only problem with the book--far from it.  The new age movement may be very nice for everybody who's involved in it, but this woman makes the entire thing sound slightly absurd.  The writing is almost like something I would expect to hear in an old Cycle of the Werewolf movie--a mix of gypsy mystique and a little bit of Celtic history which ends up sounding more absurd than authoritative. Further, the majority of the book outside of the section detailing what the cards are supposed to symbolize has a lot less to do with the actual practice of tarot than you might expect.  Chapters on candle magic and constructive meditation don't really cut it for me--if I'm buying a book relating to the tarot, I'd like to deal with the tarot. Now, I should note that this next problem does not show up in the cards at all, but I also couldn't help feeling a little excluded by Conway's tone in the writing.  I understand that a substantial cross section of the tarot reading population are women, and further that they may be of Wiccan or Goddess oriented backgrounds, but some of the writing in her book goes so far as to leave men feeling slightly excluded from the practice.  Every time she related men and women in the same context as positive and negative energy, the position of the negative and the male descriptor always synched up.  It may all be in my head, but I was a little annoyed. One thing about the cards that I don't particularly like is the approach that some things that Conway did in the design seem to indicate.  For one thing, I'm strongly against the association of wands with air and swords with fire.  I can see how it would make sense on a superficial level to some people, but I'd like to think that I at least understand the basis of the elemental associations of the tarot deck and the appropriateness of the fire/swords association is nothing more than superficial.  Fire is an energy that can be directed both to help man and to hurt him, much like our own creative energies, while air is something which is necessary to our survival, but which is all but impossible to control, which fits well with the negative associations tied to swords.  Why anybody would want to switch the two is beyond me. Beyond that, Conway also states that the cards here should only be read in their upright positions.  That strikes me as a little odd--generally people who only want to read the cards upright are either seeking to simplify their spreads or to make them a little bit more optimistic, since there are generally more positive spins you can put on upright cards than you can on reversed ones.  Overall, it all combines to give me the feeling that, while Conway may have a very superficial understanding of what she was trying to do, that the deeper design just wasn't there when this deck was put together. Fortunately, that's not represented in the cards themselves.  Considering all the objections that I have to the deck's designer and author, I think that four stars should indicate just how enthusiastically I recommend the deck itself.  While I personally prefer to use a more traditional set for my spreads, these cards could easily be used for yourself or for clients, and they do speak well to me, and, I think, to most people.  While I wouldn't say that this particular deck will have as broad an appeal as, say, the basic Marseille or Rider-Waite, or even the Robin Wood deck, so long as you aren't opposed to fantastic art and imagery in your cards, this is an excellent pickup for the collector or the regular practicioner.	2001-04-24
US	51403759	R396BLCNB4T0IA	0875428940	33860849	The Robin Wood Tarot	Books	5	64	68	N	N	Voice of an outsider here	As I do in all my reviews of tarot products, I'd like to first assure the reader that I am not what you would call a regular practicioner of the tarot.  I collect and use the cards as a hobby, to provide perspective when I am facing a difficult decision, or simply to relax. When I first got involved in the tarot, it was shortly after I had finished reading the Illuminatus! trilogy by Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson, and I wanted to investigate some of the things discussed therein.  Since Crowley had been mentioned several times in the writing, I gravitated towards the Thoth deck, and it very nearly scared me away from the hobby entirely.  While I can now appreciate some of the symbolism of the art in that deck, it's certainly a little too intimidating for the beginner to pick up and try to learn. Fortunately, I didn't give up, and the next deck that I tried was the Robin Wood.  I can't say enough good things about this deck.  There are two reasons why there are so many tarot decks in print--the first is that there is a group of people who collect them, and that market is apparently substantial enough to support prices.  The second reason, however, is that many people have a hard time finding a deck that &quot;speaks&quot; to them.  This deck is that one for me, and, I think, for a lot of people. The imagery in this deck is clear and the illustrations are done exquisitely.  Relating to this deck shouldn't be a challenge for anybody.  If even a person like me, who is so put off by the overly pagan influence in the tarot, can relate to these cards, which confess to a certain degree of pagan influence, I think just about anybody should be able to find something for themselves in this deck.  This is a wonderful pack to start with, and one that has enough maturity to stay with a person for their entire life. That's not to say that there aren't a couple of problems that might come up.  For one thing, if you're thinking about reading for clients, you may want to avoid this deck for those more sensitive to nudity.  While all are tastefully done, there is a pretty fair amount running about in the deck.  The coloring on the images also does tend to lean a little in the positive direction, but I don't necessarily think that's a bad thing.  There have been a couple of objections by reviewers here regarding the more positive feel of these cards, in fact, but I don't think there's any real grounding in that objection.  The traditionally negative cards still hold all the negative imagery and connotations--the three of swords is basically a redrawing of the original Rider-Waite design, and the ten of swords loses none of its threat either. Overall, there's really not much of a downside to this deck, from what I can tell.  I can shuffle the cards easily, and they've held up well for me, both materially and in utility.  This deck, in my opinion, is a must have for any novice reader of the tarot, and a welcome addition to any more advance user's collection.	2001-04-24
US	51403759	R2K8YTWWL2MOH9	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	M-O-O-N, that spells classic	It's a shame, really, that so much is said these days in the literary world about so little.  It seems as though writing itself has become something of a pointless pursuit--there's nothing to say that hasn't been  said.  Jordan is just rewriting Dune, after all, and the Stand is nothing  but Tolkein, right? Well, not quite.  Almost all original writing is doomed  to be labelled as a &quot;rip-off&quot; of other popular writing these  days, but that doesn't necessarily make the naysayers right.  This book is  a wonderfully original look at Christian faith and the nature of man's  relationship with God and with himself, King's best work, and (I can only  hope) the future subject of high school literature classes everywhere. And  by the way--if you don't understand the ending, try looking to the THEME of  the book, rather than hollowly sitting and looking for another literary  soap opera to fill your time.  It seems cheesy and tacked on for a  reason...	2000-06-23
