US	51624230	RK7UOOQJNWOVT	0812511638	752852000	Cold As Ice	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	What Passes	I found COLD AS ICE a little hard to get into. It starts with an engaging scenario, then jumps forward 25 years and presents the reader with a number of seemingly unconnected characters. Not that the characters aren't interesting, but it takes quite a while before connections begin to be established.<br /><br />Overall, the alien locations are well-drawn, there are some unique and intriquing characters, and the action moves along satisfactorily once it gets going. On the downside, the plot was a bit transparent and it never devoloped much suspense. I never had the feeling that I just couldn't wait to see what would happen next.<br /><br />Perhaps the number of high ratings here are partially a comment on the state of the scifi genre these days. To my mind, this is really a mediocre book, but I still find it one of the more enjoyable scifi books I've read lately. Maybe I'm just not making great choices. In my younger days, I read a lot of what I still think was outstanding scifi. Books like DUNE, DOUBLE STAR, the FOUNDATION series, RITE OF PASSAGE, LEFT HAND OF DARKNESS, RINGWORLD, etc. I'm just not finding books of that calibre in this genre anymore, and it's not for lack of trying. So, whether it's a commentary on me or the state of scifi, I'm giving this a four-star rating. It's a weak four, more like 3.7 (a B- in letter-grade terms), and a very mild endorsement. Rip-roaring scifi it's not, but it will have to do until something better comes along.	2005-10-06
US	51624230	R2SKFZWXI9YM6	0425190838	13401207	Track of the Cat (An Anna Pigeon Novel)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Undecided	I liked TRACK OF THE CAT, but I didn't love it. The idea that the lion is wrongly accused was one I found appealing, but the plot was, at times, predictable. The setting was well-drawn, but most of the characters were pretty one-dimensional. The clincher, though, is that I'm not sure yet just how captivating Anna Pigeon is as a main character. I believe that this is her first story, so I don't want to make a snap judgement, but Anna is nowhere near as quirkily entertaining as a Sherlock Holmes or Miss Marple. That would be expecting a lot, I know, but frankly she isn't even as engaging as, say, Gideon Oliver or Sharon McCone or Brother Cadfael, and she lacks the depth and power of a Harry Bosch.<br /><br />As I said, the jury is still out for me here. I liked TRACK OF THE CAT, but I wasn't wild about it. It's a solid first try, and I'll certainly read another Anna Pigeon or two before deciding whether or not to go for the whole series. I expect most readers will find this opening mystery enjoyable. I recommend it, but my recommendation is a mild one.	2005-10-03
US	51624230	RGLEIN8R6TZIO	0785812636	895062191	Grant Takes Command	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	This One, Too	Was Ulysses S. Grant a drunk? Did he win the Civil War simply by burying Robert E. Lee under a wave of superior manpower and resources? Bruce Catton addresses these questions, and many others, in GRANT MOVES SOUTH and its companion volume, GRANT TAKES COMMAND. Taken together, the two books chronicle Grant's Civil War experience.<br /><br />I've read a lot of history, but I confess to being relatively ignorant about the American Civil War except in a very general sense. I've always been interested, I just never got very far into it. These two books are my first real foray into the subject. Both are very well researched and documented, while at the same time being very readable. Catton demonstrates a thorough knowledge of the facts as well as a genuine insight into Grant's character. The result, for me, was an experience that was at once informative and enjoyable.<br /><br />What does Catton have to say about Grant's alleged drunkeness? Clearly, Catton is an admirer of Grant, but it's an admiration born of respect for the man as revealed in his personal records and actions, as well as in the record left by people who knew him. To get his take on this and other criticisms of Grant, read these books.<br /><br />Conventional wisdom has it that GRANT MOVES SOUTH and GRANT TAKES COMMAND are definitive works on the subject of U. S. Grant's Civil War career. I certainly won't argue with that perception. If you have a deep interest in Grant or in the Civil War in general, they are \\"must haves\\". Beyond that, though, if you have just a casual interest, this is still great reading material. I highly recommend both volumes.	2005-09-30
US	51624230	R2J1KPYKZPKKVO	0785812644	356973667	Grant Moves South	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	One Man's Opinion	Was Ulysses S. Grant a drunk? Did he win the Civil War simply by burying Robert E. Lee under a wave of superior manpower and resources? Bruce Catton addresses these questions, and many others, in GRANT MOVES SOUTH and its companion volume, GRANT TAKES COMMAND. Taken together, the two books chronicle Grant's Civil War experience.<br /><br />I've read a lot of history, but I confess to being relatively ignorant about the American Civil War except in a very general sense. I've always been interested, I just never got very far into it. These two books are my first real foray into the subject. Both are very well researched and documented, while at the same time being very readable. Catton demonstrates a thorough knowledge of the facts as well as a genuine insight into Grant's character. The result, for me, was an experience that was at once informative and enjoyable.<br /><br />What does Catton have to say about Grant's alleged drunkeness?  Clearly, Catton is an admirer of Grant, but it's an admiration born of respect for the man as revealed in his personal records and actions, as well as in the record left by people who knew him. To get his take on this and other criticisms of Grant, read these books.<br /><br />Conventional wisdom has it that GRANT MOVES SOUTH and GRANT TAKES COMMAND are definitive works on the subject of U. S. Grant's Civil War career. I certainly won't argue with that perception. If you have a deep interest in Grant or in the Civil War in general, they are \\"must haves\\". Beyond that, though, if you have just a casual interest, this is still great reading material. I highly recommend it.	2005-09-30
US	51624230	R2HWXSOZ4SDQF2	0451199898	276242603	The Mirror Crack'd (Miss Marple Mysteries)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Vintage Miss Marple	THE MIRROR CRACK'D finds the quaint village of St. Mary Mead undergoing changes. Besides the charming old village, there is now a supermarket and a modern neighborhood of tract homes. Despite the physical changes taking place in the area, however, human nature remains a constant.<br /><br />Having taken up residence in the local manor house, movie star Marina Gregg hosts a cocktail party. When one of the neighbor ladies suddenly dies from poison, it appears the fatal concoction might have been meant for Marina.<br /><br />Aside from Sherlock Holmes, Miss Marple is probably my favorite fictional detective. Her quiet way of getting at the truth is always clever and insightful. She's a delightful character, and Christie can be relied on to create a fascinating plot. Despite the seemingly unconnected details, the clues are there if you can just decipher what they mean. The outcome always ties up the loose ends very satisfactorily.<br /><br />If there's anything to criticize here, it's that our dear old Miss Marple has become so decrepit that she must have a somewhat annoying companion and, since she rarely gets out of her house, her actual presence in the story is more limited than usual. Christie relys on other characters for most of the legwork in this tale and they aren't quite as engaging as Jane Marple. We just don't get the usual clicking knitting needles to the extent that Miss Marple fans have become accustomed.<br /><br />That minor criticism aside, this is another first-rate Christie whodunit. It isn't my favorite Miss Marple mystery, but it's pretty darn good just the same. If an entertaining muder mystery is what you seek, THE MIRROR CRACK'D will fill the bill. I recommend it highly.	2005-09-22
US	51624230	R1M35RXN18I7AY	0553579703	271355342	Only Forward	Books	2	4	9	N	Y	Mystified	The Library Journal describes ONLY FORWARD as an \\"...sf action thriller in a color-coded near future, where independent neighborhoods vie for dominance in a dangerous and deadly high-tech world.\\" Well, I actually read ONLY FORWARD and, while there are neighborhoods that are very distinctive, there wasn't much vying for dominance going on, nor is this what I would call a \\"thriller\\". It was mostly a live-and-let-live arrangement among the neighborhoods, and any excitement generated in the first part of the book was dissipated in the vapid second part.<br /><br />The neighborhoods are all featured primarily in the first part of ONLY FORWARD, wherein Stark (the main character) tries to locate and bring home missing technologist Fell Alkland. This part of the book is mildly amusing, but suffers from a degree of predictability. Moreover, the neighborhood concept suffers from a lack of internal consistency, which makes it hard to take seriously. One, for example, is controlled by gangs and completely chaotic, with killings and destruction the order of the day. The trouble with such a \\"neighborhood\\" is that it would be reduced to an uninhabitable pile of rubble within a very short time. Another \\"neighborhood\\" exists in total isolation; walled off from its neighbors and keeping its citizens in total  ignorance of the existence of an outside world. Hard to figure how this is managed when it becomes clear that the neighborhood is (surprise) not self-sufficient and must trade with other neighborhoods to maintain itself. Inconsistencies such as these are  common in the first half of the book.<br /><br />The latter part of ONLY FORWARD throws the unsuspecting reader into Jeamland. Jeamland is a fanciful dreamworld; a surreal vision conjured up out of thin air that, like a dream, has no internal consistency. Indeed, the Jeamland environment shifts with the slippery ease of an oil-slick on the surface of a running stream. There's a lot of action here, but it isn't particularly compelling because the prevailing reality changes  at the whim of certain characters and it's hard to accept that one character can be harmed by another character's dream.<br /><br />Some folks apparently really like this book. It's even won awards. Not in my Jeamland, however (in my Jeamland, I just won the Lotto and I'm off to Sacramento to claim my prize). I confess that I'm mystified as to what folks see in it. Someone wrote about ONLY FORWARD that \\"...the story blazes with visionary intensity.\\" Well, there may be some intensity (if you can get past the absurdity), but there's nothing visionary about it. Very little of what it contains could possibly occur in any imaginable reality. In fact, this isn't science fiction at all. It's fantasy of the most extreme sort. Even Tolkien's fantasy world is internally consistent and functions by some recognizable rules. Little of that exists here; none in Jeamland.<br /><br />\\"Properly warned ye be, says I.\\" The first part of ONLY FORWARD was far-fetched and predictable, but worth three stars in my book. I found the Jeamland part more mind-numbing than mind-bending, though. If surrealism is your cup of tea, go for it. At least you've been warned about what you're getting into. But, if your reading tastes are anything like mine, this is a two star book. You're on your own.the prevailing reality changes  at the whim of certain characters and it's hard to accept that one character can be harmed by another character's dream.    Some folks apparently really like this book. It's even won awards. Not in my Jeamland, however (in my Jeamland, I just won the Lotto and I'm off to Sacramento to claim my prize). I confess that I'm mystified as to what folks see in it. Someone wrote about ONLY FORWARD that \\"...the story blazes with visionary intensity.\\" Well, there may be some intensity (if you can get past the absurdity), but there's nothing visionary about it. Very little of what it contains could possibly occur in any imaginable reality. In fact, this isn't science fiction at all. It's fantasy of the most extreme sort. Even Tolkien's fantasy world is internally consistent and functions by some recognizable rules. Little of that exists here; none in Jeamland.    \\"Properly warned ye be, says I.\\" The first part of ONLY FORWARD was far-fetched and predictable, but worth three stars in my book. I found the Jeamland part more mind-numbing than mind-bending, though. If surrealism is your cup of tea, go for it. At least you've been warned about what you're getting into. But, if your reading tastes are anything like mine, this is a two star book. You're on your own.	2005-09-10
US	51624230	RH4X62XBD3E4H	0553279602	399886935	The Matlock Paper	Books	3	7	8	N	Y	Thin Paper	I've read a lot of Ludlum's other books. Some of his early works, i.e. RHINEMAN EXCHANGE, GEMINI CONTENDERS, OSTERMAN WEEKEND, are among my favorites. By comparison THE MATLOCK PAPER, another early effort, is somewhat disappointing.<br /><br />The story is based around an eastern college campus. Matlock, a popular local professor, is tapped by the FBI to infiltrate a crime conspiracy. Like any Ludlum story, there's plenty of action, but the plot was predictable and some of the story elements (especially the local mafiosi and the campus black caucus group) struck me as pretty corny. As a result, despite the fast pace, I never felt the kind of tension that comes with a good Ludlum book.<br /><br />THE MATLOCK PAPER will keep you turning the pages, but I don't feel it's up to the standard Ludlum usually sets. There are plenty of worse books you could read, but I can't really recommend this one. In my judgement, it's a mediocre three stars.	2005-09-06
US	51624230	R21044X2JQRWWH	0380799154	920423724	Thunder Rift	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Thunder Drift	THUNDER RIFT begins with the sudden appearance of a wormhole in the solar system, which wreaks havoc on Earth. Taria Spears is born into the resulting social and economic chaos. Then, at an early age, she is traumatized by the death of her mother. She grows up brilliant but emotionally scarred, and wins a spot on an expedition to explore the Rift.<br /><br />Plunging through the wormhole in search of it's source, the expedition finds an earthlike planet inhabited by a race of aliens. These aliens perceive their world  through a highly-developed sense of hearing, but they aren't technologically advanced. The expedition is ready to write these beings off, but Taria is intrigued.<br /><br />So far, so good. From this point, however, THUNDER RIFT deteriorates. In terms of their attitudes and responses, the aliens aren't really all that alien and, of course, the humans in this tale are stereotypically paranoid and militaristic. By the time the dust settles, we have aliens that can bring down aircraft (even spacecraft) with a mysterious sonic power and that metamorphose into marine creatures that can \\"sing\\" open a wormhole in interstellar space. In short, what starts as in interesting little tale degenerates into a preposterous melodrama.<br /><br />If you can suspend your disbelief enough to swallow all this, THUNDER RIFT is a mildly entertaining read. It's no more than that, though.	2005-08-06
US	51624230	R36J4Y98H3ZCHA	0445407778	889886270	Hermit of Eyton Forest (Brother Cadfael Mysteries)	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Another Pleasant Tale	THE HERMIT OF EYTON FOREST is another installment in Ellis Peters' popular Brother Cadfael series. I've read most of them and fully intend to read the rest. Clearly, I'm something of a fan. Not because the mysteries are so riveting. They aren't. In fact, most of them are fairly transparent. The how and why might not always be so obvious, but the who isn't usually too hard to figure out. The suspicious characters are rarely difficult to identify.<br /><br />Further, the picture Ellis paints of life in the eleventh century is sanitized for our enjoyment. Despite the violence of the civil war raging in the background, life in Shrewsbury is slow-paced, calm, and ordered. Filth, squalor, brutality, disease and the appallingly short life expectancy of the period rarely intrude here.<br /><br />Despite this (or perhaps because of it), the stories are engaging, the characters charming, and Peters' idyllic vision of the time is very attractive. Her prose has an elegant, graceful quality that enhances the pleasure of the overall experience, making these books a delight to read. I never fail to enjoy them, and THE HERMIT OF EYTON FOREST is certainly no exception.	2005-07-05
US	51624230	R2C5FMCE0ZP4UQ	055357342X	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	3	7	N	Y	More Of The Same... And That's Not Bad	It's hard, when you're reviewing something that's already been reviewed by hundreds of others, to come up with something original to say. Such, for me,  is the case with A STORM OF SWORDS. Faced with this dilemma, I'm simply going to weigh in with all the others who've written in high praise of Martin's work. This is great stuff, and I'm not usually given to hyperbole. The characters are real. They have good days and bad days, they make mistakes, they aren't unrelentingly good or totally evil (perhaps one of two exceptions on the disagreeable side, but even these can give you a sympathetic moment somewhere along the way), they're all interesting, and they're ALL at risk. The plot twists and turns, and is full of surprises. You can never get too comfortable. Moreover, while the battle continues for the throne of the Seven Kingdoms, Princess Daenerys grows stronger across the sea and there's a sense that the ultimate fate of all lurks beyond the northern wall. It's all top-notch storytelling.<br /><br />Does Martin's work have some shortcomings? Sure. His prose doesn't have the elegance of Tolkien's, and he lacks Tolkien's occasional touch of whimsy or humor. These books are deadly serious and quite bloody. They're also earthy, and if you're likely to be put off by this quality, then these books may not be for you.<br /><br />As you probably know, A STORM OF SWORDS is the third book in Martin's A SONG OF FIRE AND ICE series. Yeah, the series title's a little melodramatic (they often are), but so far the books have been great. They're not meant to stand alone, though. A STORM OF SWORDS is much like its predecessors. If you've already read them, then this is more of the same. If you liked the others, this one definitely won't let you down. If you didn't like them, what are you doing here? If you haven't read the others, don't start here. Start with A CLASH OF KINGS. They're all five-star books, in my opinion, and I recommend them highly.	2005-03-27
US	51624230	R1K5Q5131ICUUW	0425177750	555113242	The Celtic Riddle (Archaeological Mysteries, No. 4)	Books	3	7	8	N	Y	You Just Never Know	THE CELTIC RIDDLE is the fourth installment in Hamilton's Lara McClintoch series. The first one was passable, but nothing to get excited about. I found the second one disappointing and decided, at that point, to give up on Hamilton. Relenting after a couple of years, I gave the third one a shot. Lo and behold, I liked it. Not great, you understand, but pretty good. I began thinking that Hamilton had found her muse.<br /><br />Now we have THE CELTIC RIDDLE (and several more, actually, but I'm taking them in order). For me, this is something of a letdown. Not horrid, but not up to the standard of THE MOCHE WARRIOR. The premise is shaky (a wealthy man leaves a treasure hunt behind in his will, hoping that his squabbling heirs will cooperate to find an unspecified treasure. Now really, what could be more divisive?). The background mythology is interesting and Hamilton has done her homework, but the meanings hidden within the mythical poem are obscure and the connections drawn are often either solved outside the thread of the narrative or involve improbable leaps of intuition. And what's up with the silly device of speaking backwards? It is more  annoying than cute.<br /><br />I don't quite know what to make of Hamilton. Thus far, her stories have been inconsistent. THE CELTIC RIDDLE is a mediocrity, and it could have been a good deal better. If you're into the series, you'll want to read it. If not, you might want to try the next one. I haven't read it yet, but the more recent books in this series are getting better reviews. I'm hoping that the best is yet to come.	2005-01-30
US	51624230	R192D1PB0Q9HB	0812571088	763383583	Frameshift	Books	3	2	5	N	Y	Uneven	FRAMESHIFT is my first book by Sawyer. I had high hopes going in, but I confess to being a little disappointed. The prose is competent enough, the main character and his battle with Huntinton's Disease is compelling, and the idea of someone being used as the unwitting object of a genetic experiment is intriguing. The hunt for the evil Nazi war criminal was even interesting.<br /><br />On the other hand, the mysterious ability to read other people's minds is, in my opinion, a greatly over-worked  scifi gimick. Also, the greedy corporation that will sink to any depths to enrich itself is an overdone cliche. The notion that a business should bankrupt itself on behalf of a tiny minority of incurable people is as ridiculous as the idea that a company would murder such people. Further, the spectre of a neanderthal child being raised like an ordinary child struck me as silly. Emotionally appealing, but silly. Finally, the \\"DIEHARD\\" (think Bruce Willis) climax was predictable and tired.<br /><br />FRAMESHIFT was OK, but I would have liked it better if Sawyer hadn't cluttered it up with so many sub-plots. He should also have tried harder to resist the temptation to use his story as his own personal little soapbox. I don't know about you, but I read this stuff to be entertained, not to give some writer a platform to preach to me. From my perspective, it's a mediocre three stars. Proceed at your own risk.	2005-01-16
US	51624230	R33GEO7LUOB103	0312979487	678964946	The Man in the Brown Suit (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Mystery or Romance?	Agatha Christie was a very prolific writer and, at her best, I've always regarded her as second only to Conan Doyle as a mystery writer. In addition, as noted in the editorial section above, she wrote romantic novels under the pseudonym Mary Westmacott. After reading THE MAN IN THE BROWN SUIT, I'm inclined to the opinion that she also wrote romances under her own name.<br /><br />The back cover of this book notes that the name Agatha Christie \\"is synonymous with brilliant deception, ingenious puzzles, and the surprise denoument\\". Well, to be fair, there is a mystery here and, if it was tightened up some, it wouldn't be a bad one. As it is, though, it meanders, it isn't all that deceptive, and it just isn't very compelling (especially in the later part of the story). What you get instead is a \\"coming of age\\" story about a naive and foolish young woman who blows her last penny on a one-way ticket to South Africa in pursuit of a seemingly dangerous killer, a \\"bad guy\\" who is both fairly obvious and, in the end, much too likeable, and an ending that is too pat and too easy.<br /><br />THE MAN IN THE BROWN SUIT isn't a really bad story. The characters are amusing and things move along briskly. It's worth remembering that it was written in the 1920's and the world was a much different place in those days. I found it disappointing as a whodunit, though, and a good whodunit is what I was looking for. As the book proceeds, it becomes less about the mystery and more about the improbable romantic adventures of the heroine. Romance fans may like it, but if you're looking for an engaging mystery, I suggest you look elsewhere.	2005-01-16
US	51624230	RSR779F6IHN87	0345447840	383802287	The Surgeon (with Bonus Content): A Rizzoli & Isles Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A Stomach Turner	THE SURGEON is definitely a gripping little tale. The title character is a killer who uses torture and mutilation of a most specific nature on his victims. While Detectives Moore and Rizzoli attempt to identify a pattern to the killer's madness, the killer relentlessly closes in on Dr. Catherine Cordell, the only survivor of a separate killer who employed an identical modus operandi. Coincidence, or is there a more concrete connection between the two?<br /><br />This novel is solidly written. Gerritsen keeps the tension at a high level, the pace is relentless, and the characters are engaging. So why four stars instead of five? To my mind, while there are surprises in the details, the story is rather predictable overall, from the bloody opening to the cliff-hanger ending. Just-in-the-nick-of-time endings have become so overworked in books and movies that they've lost much of their impact. THE SURGEON is also quite gruesome. I like a good mystery, but THE SURGEON had my stomach turning at times.<br /><br />Gerritsen has written a pretty good thriller, here. If the predictable ending and the sadism don't put you off at all, this is a very good read.	2005-01-01
US	51624230	ROY67RI9ADOZI	0441009425	824019804	Revelation Space	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Mixed Reaction	For a first book, REVELATION SPACE is pretty good, but I was a little disappointed when all was said and done. Possibly this was due, at least partly, to high expectations. This book has gotten a lot of very positive spin -- award nominations, strong recommendations, ect. Besides that, however, there are some problems. Reynolds keeps several plot lines going in this book and, combined with frequent shifts of time frame, it became rather disconcerting. Also, though the character development is good compared to most space operas, I didn't find any of the people in this book particularly sympathetic. Consequently, I wasn't sure I really cared what happened to them by the time I got to the end.<br /><br />Despite these issues, I found REVELATION SPACE quite readable. Reynolds uses language nicely, the action moved along at a good pace, and the universe Reynolds has created is an intriguing one. So, while it wasn't as good as I hoped it would be, this is still better than average sci fi and I expect to read the next book in this series.	2004-12-13
US	51624230	R12OK90ENKC61G	0446607274	515249324	Angels Flight (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Connelly Comes Through Again	ANGEL'S FLIGHT is the sixth book in Connelly's ongoing Harry Bosch series. It's also the sixth one I've read and I have yet to be disappointed. Not only does Connelly give the reader an engaging plot with plenty of surprises, but the development of Harry Bosch throughout the series makes each installment something like meeting up with an old friend. In ANGEL'S FLIGHT, Harry is put in charge of the investigation into the murder of a prominent black lawyer involved in a suit against the LAPD. Set against the backdrop of a riot-torn city, the situation is both complex and very tense. At the same time, Harry is forced to deal with domestic troubles of his own.<br /><br />Connelly is an acknowledged master of the hard-boiled police procedural and, while this isn't my favorite genre, he's never let me down. If you're new to Harry Bosch, however, don't start here. Start with THE BLACK ECHO and take them in order. They can all stand on their own, but Harry's life is a work in progress and is never far from the surface. I highly recommend Connelly's work, in general. ANGEL'S FLIGHT is certainly no exception.	2004-11-27
US	51624230	R96AK6RC9QGXR	0451458346	80015911	Resurrection	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	Not An Epic	Somebody has described RESURRECTION as \\"not top shelf epic sf\\". All I can say is that I agree...and thank goodness. Personally, my tolerance for apocalyptic sf \\"epics\\" is limited. I'm not looking for the ultimate galactic fate of the human race when I pick up a new book, I just want an entertaining story. That's exactly what I got from RESURRECTION. Not the greatest character development, but I cared about some of them by the end. The plot was sometimes predictable and the ending came together a little too neatly, too. That's why it doesn't get five stars. But it was enjoyable and it held my interest. It isn't DUNE, but it wasn't bad. If you're looking for a new voice in the sf genre, you might give this one a try.	2004-10-24
US	51624230	RY6TZTWNB325W	0671026682	915930446	Serpent: A Novel from the NUMA Files	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Standard Fare	As I've commented elsewhere, I don't know that I would ever have bought a Clive Cussler book on my own. As it happens, though, I was given three by someone I know, so I gave them a try. SERPENT is the last of the three and, although the heroes have changed (at least in name), the stories are all fundamentally similar. Each involves an outrageously fantastic plot and main characters that are almost irritatingly perfect. There's nothing wrong with this formula (I like James Bond, Indy Jones, et al as much as the next guy), but heroes need some vulnerabilities and Dirk Pitt/Kurt Austin don't seem to have any. There's little tension or suspense because it never seems that the main characters are in any serious danger.<br /><br />With all that said, I liked SERPENT better than the other two Cussler books I read. Not sufficiently better to warrant more than three stars, but of the three it would be my first choice. The quality of the writing was better (fewer syntax problems) and I found the historical/archeological aspects interesting. As always, there's no lack of action and it keeps the reader entertained. It's an acceptable light read, but don't expect anything beyond that.	2004-10-10
US	51624230	R2KOS3FSL90GM1	0812535170	213069566	The Infinite Sea (Chaos Chronicles)	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Wearing Thin	I gave the two preceding books in this series four-star ratings and, to be fair, THE INFINITE SEA is comparable to them. The main characters have become somewhat engaging, the plot moved along and held my interest, and the undersea focus was a nice change. For me, though, certain things are beginning to wear a little thin. One is the steady progression of new \\"Charlies\\". Maybe this device has some purpose to it in the future that hasn't become clear yet, but it seems unnecessary and overdone. Another problem for me is Carver's inability to create some really alien aliens. Every major species is essentially humanoid (except Charlie, who's ephemeral) in a situation that seems ideal for some distinctly different beings.<br />Beyond the above complaints, I also found the idea of sex between John Bandicutt and an alien character ludicrous and unnecessary. This is, perhaps, just an aspect of the need for more original alien species, but the idea that an alien and a human would have anything even remotely approaching either physical or emotional sexual compatibility is silly. Again, maybe this has implications for future installments in the series, but that isn't in evidence at this point.<br />The bottom line: if you liked the other two books in this series, you'll enjoy this one as well. It's nothing special, though. In fact, as scifi goes, it's pretty ordinary. If you haven't read any of the other books in this series, you should go back and start with the first one. Not that THE INFINITE SEA can't stand alone, but you lose a lot of background and there's no compelling reason to start here. This one doesn't stand out from the others.<br />Having given the others four stars, it's possible I'm low-balling this one a bit, but I don't feel that the broader story has advanced much in this installment. In the absence of some discernible progress in the bigger picture, my interest is beginning to wane.	2004-03-14
US	51624230	R9BJUA108M7I4	0425179230	153007205	Point of Impact (Tom Clancy's Net Force, Book 5)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Life Is Full Of Surprises	I was fully prepared to dislike this book. To begin with, it was a gift, not something I would have chosen. I'm not a big Tom Clancy fan. I don't have anything against him, I just haven't read any of his books. The thing is, I still haven't read any of Clancy's books. Although POINT OF IMPACT has Clancy's name all over it, it was actually written by Steve Perry, someone I had never heard of.<br />Then there was the prologue, which contains some very hokey and contrived dialogue. By the time I got through the first few pages my eyes were rolling. Given the larger-than-life action and comic book characterization typical of this type of book, combined with what I had seen so far, I figured I was in for a real stinker.<br />But, to my surprise, POINT OF IMPACT turned out to be pretty good. Not a literary masterpiece by any stretch of the imagination, but entertaining and quite readable. The prologue was just a setup. To be sure, you still get the over-the-top plot, but that goes with the genre. Beyond that, there actually was some character development. Not so much for the Net Force \\"good guys\\" (I assume they're already familiar from previous books in the series) as for the \\"bad guy\\" drug maker and his sidekick. These two become somewhat familiar and interesting as the story progresses.<br />I enjoyed POINT OF IMPACT and I hadn't expected to. It wasn't clever or memorable in any particular way. There isn't any real depth. Still, it didn't bore me and the writing was competent. For a light read, you could do a lot worse. Fans of this genre won't be disappointed.	2004-02-29
US	51624230	R3HRHNIVONWY9J	3453196775	397189186	Venus.	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Very Ordinary	Van Humphries has problems. He's unambitious, has chronic anemia, and is something of a dilettante. His fabulously wealthy father despises him because his mother died after giving birth to him and because he percieves him as a weakling. Van's older brother, who he idolized, died on the surface of Venus after becoming the first human to reach it. When Van's father offers a ten billion dollar prize to the person who retrives his older son's remains (assuming there's anything left to retrieve after a long sojourn in the hostile Venusian environment), Van surprises himself and everyone around him by deciding to go for it. It's not really so surprising, though, because Dad simultaneously tells Van that he's going to cut off his allowance and Van has no other means of support. Is ol' Dad manipulating Van?<br />Ben Bova's VENUS has lots of interesting material about the planet Venus in it, Van is a somewhat appealing character, and there's some engaging action. But, beyond these elements, this is a very uninspired story. The plot is routine and predictable and, with the possible exception of Van, the characters are strictly one-dimensional. I can't say I was bored by this book. In fact, I found it mildly entertaining, but there is nothing here to really recommend it. It's a true mediocrity.	2004-02-20
US	51624230	R7ZSV5U5GRB02	0553579274	687453166	A Finer End (Duncan Kincaid/Gemma James Novel)	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	A Fine Mystery	A FINER END is apparently the seventh book in Crombie's Duncan Kincaid/Gemma Jones series, but my first. If I had it to do over again, I would have started with number one. It's not that you're lost if you jump in at the seventh, but you miss the character development that has gone before. It tends to be a significant part of the story. That aside, though, I liked this book. It was nicely plotted and not easy to see through, although I had Andrew's situation figured out from early on. The characters were interesting and well-drawn, and the historical aspect and setting of the story added to the somewhat eerie atmosphere and my interest level.<br />My only problem with A FINER END was the almost casual way in which direct communication from am 11th century priest plays into the story. Whenever seemingly supernatural elements are used by most mystery writers, they end up with a logical explanation, as is the case with the spectral hound in THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES. A FINER END askes the reader to accept &quot;automatic writing&quot; almost as if it was perfectly normal. The characters struggle with the idea at first, but in the end it's an accepted part of the story and a source of evidence for the mystery. My credibility was stretched farther that I usually like.<br />Outside of the overdone mystical element, I found A FINER END to be a very enjoyable mystery. I'll be reading more of Crombie's books in the future. When I do, though, I will be going back and picking up the Kincaid/Jones series from the beginning. I think other mystery fans will like these books as well as I do. Take my word for it and give them a try.	2004-01-22
US	51624230	R1629IBB5KRBVO	055358376X	726789649	Maximum Ice (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	New Take On An Old Theme	The man versus machine storyline is certainly not a new one, but Kay Kenyon has put a unique spin on it in MAXIMUM ICE. The &quot;machine&quot; is a powerful computer that was originally developed to protect Earth. This system, called Ice, was based on a self-replicating chemical structure and, over a span of several thousand years, it has grown to the point where it threatens to totally engulf the planet, eliminating all life in the process. The &quot;man&quot; side of the equation is spearheaded by shipmother Zoya. She represents a band of star-faring expatriots whose ancestors left Earth before Ice and who now want to re-settle. In between are ice witches, some unholy nuns, ravenous rats, mutinous officers, and other assorted complications. The story is different enough to be interesting and the main characters, while not exactly &quot;deep&quot;, are sufficiently developed to be appealing.<br />This is the first book by Kenyon that I've read. I liked it. There was plenty of action, and the concept and characters kept me entertained. I'll be reading more of Kenyon's books in the future, and I recommend this one to readers who enjoy light science fiction. It's not &quot;hall of fame&quot; material, but it's fun.	2004-01-16
US	51624230	R1LQI26ER3B1A4	0312963297	20675667	Trunk Music (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Another Excellent Harry Bosch Novel	TRUNK MUSIC finds Harry investigating an apparent mafia hit on a small-time movie producer. The victim has been found in the truck of his car with two bullets in his head. He was shot from behind at very close range. Of course, Connelly provides plenty of twists before you get to the end. Some will surprise you even if some don't. But between Harry's personal travails and the difficulties of unraveling the case, there is plenty to keep the pages turning. Besides a convoluted plot, Connelly also provides characters of depth and lots of rough edges.<br />This is Connelly's fifth Harry Bosch story and it's the fifth one I've read. I've thoroughly enjoyed each one and I recommend them to anyone who likes gritty police procedurals. It's not really my favorite genre, but these are exceptional. Harry has developed steadily throughout the series, however, and there are elements that crop up from previous books, so if you haven't read any Harry Bosch stories before, I advise going back and starting from the first.  I highly recommend TRUNK MUSIC, along with each of its four predecessors.	2003-12-30
US	51624230	RWJGQMGFH8XNH	0380792273	363051018	The One Kingdom (The Swans' War, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	NOT Tolkien	I'm not as widely read in the fantasy genre as many other people out there. I've read and loved Tolkien and I've also read stuff by Brooks, Kay, Donaldson, Martin and others, but I haven't yet gotten around to Hobb, Goodkind, Jordan or many other popular fantasy writers. Tolkien is my standard. THE ONE KINGDOM: Book One Of The Swans' War is the first thing I've read by Sean Russell. I liked it. It's intricately plotted and the characters are sympathetic and engaging. There's plenty of action and plenty of skullduggery.<br />So, why four stars and not five? After thinking over that question for a while, I concluded that THE ONE KINGDOM fell a little short for me in a couple of ways. First, the mysterious business of slipping in and out of alternate physical realms is never really explained. At least, not to my satisfaction. Second, I don't yet know what some of the main characters are doing in this story. Tam and his friends are deeply enmeshed in what's going on, but it isn't clear why. In THE LORD OF THE RINGS (and other favorites) everyone's role is clearly defined, even though you don't know how they'll end up. Here, major characters just seem to have gotten caught up by accident, although there are hints at deeper connections. There's no clear motivation for risking necks outside of getting what's owed and getting home again. That doesn't seem quite adequate, somehow.<br />THE ONE KINGDOM is fun. For me it was a page-turner. I enjoyed it and will definitely read the next book in the series. It's not, however, quite on a par with Tolkien or some other fantasy novels I've read. I recommend it, but there are others I would recommend ahead of it.	2003-12-28
US	51624230	R29XIZA3100Q7S	0312982518	840537150	The Sigma Protocol	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	All The Usual Ingredients	THE SIGMA PROTOCOL has the usual elements readers have come to expect from Robert Ludlum over the years. It's an action-packed, intricately plotted thrill-ride of a book. At his best, Ludlum is the five-star standard in this genre. So why only four stars here? Primarily because, in a genre characterized by over-the-top conspiracies of truly credibility-stretching proportions, the evil conspiracy in this book goes so much further that it became laughable for me. I just couldn't take it seriously by the time I got to the finish. These guys aren't just out to reinstate the thousand-year reich or anything as mundane as that. These nasties have been firmly in control of events world-wide since the end of World War II. They've managed to manipulate things from behind the scenes for over fifty years. There's more, too, but I don't want to give it all away. Suffice it to say that a pretty good overall read went a little south by the end because it was just a bit too much to swallow. Further, the end was rather predictable and, consequently, something of a letdown on that score, as well.<br />I've read a lot of Ludlum books over the years and very much enjoyed most of them. I think he did his best work earlier in his writing career with books like THE RHINEMANN EXCHANGE, THE OSYERMAN WEEKEND, THE MATARESE CIRCLE and THE BOURNE IDENTITY. It has seemed to me that in his more recent books he has reached further for complex plots and lost some of the edge from the intense and compelling action and drama that were his greatest strengths. Don't get me wrong, though. THE SIGMA PROTOCOL is definitely a page-turner and fun to read. Four stars is still a pretty good rating. I just feel that it's a step beneath Ludlum's best.	2003-12-11
US	51624230	R2TGA3JWZ0X0CE	0441008925	517711274	Echoes of Earth	Books	3	8	8	N	Y	Maybe It's Just Me	Maybe it's just me, but I found this book hard to really like. It has some good elements: the aliens are intriguing and so is the technology, both human and alien. The premise of humans exploring beyond the solar system, encountering technologically superior aliens, and dealing with the consequences of such an encounter all appealed to me. Nor can I complain about the pace of the book. Events moved along and there was enough action to keep me involved. On the other hand, the story always had something of a cold, impersonal feel for me. I found it impossible to really care about the principal characters, most of whom are computer &quot;engrams&quot; (i.e. programmed personalities based on real people who remained back on Earth). These engrams run the starships while &quot;inhabiting&quot; a virtual environment within the starship computers. A &quot;dead&quot; engram is just a deleted program when all is said and done, and I just couldn't get emotionally involved with that. Further, what is done to humanity and to Earth, both by aliens and by ourselves and our own technology, felt both far-fetched and improbably grim to me.<br />I read this book all the way through but, while it was interesting, I can't say that I liked it very much by the time I got to the end. Intellectually stimulating perhaps, but not emotionally satisfying. Some readers will like it a lot, I'm sure, but I had a very mixed reaction to it. At this point, I'm not sure if I will read the next book in this series or not. I can't give ECHOES OF EARTH a strong recommendation. Proceed at your own risk.	2003-11-24
US	51624230	RGGRV89XJ2145	0446605506	888893013	Both Ends of the Night (Sharon McCone Mysteries)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	I Keep Reading	I keep coming back for Muller's next Sharon McCone story, so it's safe to conclude that I have enjoyed the series so far. By number 19, it's become as much about McCone and her extended family of familiar characters as it is about the mysteries. For that reason, I suggest that somebody new to the McCone books not start with this one. You can, but it all works better if you have some background.<br />I didn't find BOTH ENDS OF THE NIGHT to be one of Ms. Mullers' most compelling mysteries. It held my interest all the way through, but there was a little more rhapsodizing on the joys of airplane piloting than I wanted. I also thought that there weren't many real surprises in this one and the climax was too straightforward and obvious. Further, given the personal history of the guy living in the woods, he wouldn't have been difficult for a wealthy father to locate over the course of ten years.<br />I have enjoyed Mullers' McCone novels and will certainly read more of them. This one, however, while OK, was a bit of a letdown. Not bad, but not one of the best. I'm not suggesting that people (especially fans) not read it, just that there are others I liked better. My four-star rating on this one is a bit soft.	2003-10-25
US	51624230	R30JYQCTNFHBP8	0812580109	848001248	Saturn's Race	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Not Niven's Best Work	Lenore Myles is in the Xanadu floating habitat to celebrate her recent graduation from UCLA. She hopes to go on to a brilliant career. Instead, she stumbles upon a bit of information that changes her life.<br />Sounds like a promising beginning for a story. Unfortunately, SATURN'S RACE fizzles somewhere along the line. Lenore gets part of her memory erased (including the crucial bit of info), which has a seriously negative effect on her life. She embarks on a quest to find out what happened to her and to get her mind back, but in the process she increasingly becomes a sideline in this story while the focus shifts to Chaz Kato, a man Lenore became involved with while on Xanadu.<br />SATURN'S RACE is often fast-paced and it raises some very relevant issues about man's future on Earth. Unfortunately, like Lenore, the story seems to get lost in its own shifting focus. It raises issues, but never provides any satisfactory resolution. Characters that seem important at one point become unimportant, and vice versa. In the end, it all bogs down in its own confusion and cliches.<br />I've read a lot of books either authored or co-authored by Larry Niven. Some were very good and among my favorites in the scifi genre. SATURN'S RACE, however, is not one of them. It is, in my opinion, mediocre. Does that mean it went over my head, as someone has suggested? No. Under my head, perhaps, but I think it's possible to &quot;get&quot; this book and still be underwhelmed by it. For me, it went briskly but I had had more than enough by the time I finished it. Ultimately, I don't read scifi to get other people's thoughts on the human condition. I read scifi for entertainment. SATURN'S RACE wasn't overly entertaining.	2003-10-16
US	51624230	RSLK3YKT6I4PO	0449222276	113738092	Belgrave Square	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Another Adventure With The Pitts	This is another installment in the Thomas and Charlotte Pitt series. I've read most of them and always find them entertaining and enjoyable. As with most series, the characters become familiar and the development of their lives from story to story is a large part of of what makes these books fun to read. Beyond that, the books are also good period pieces. Perry's exploration of social mores and class barriers is well done. Her weakness is that her plots are often somewhat transparent. BELGRAVE SQUARE is no exception. For me, the &quot;hidden relationship&quot; that lies at the core of this mystery was pretty clear long before the end. The final scene was dramatic, but the relationship thus exposed was long anticipated.<br />Perry's tales are, in general, fun to read and BELGRAVE SQUARE is a solid entry in the Pitt series. Her characters are engaging and her handling of the social and historical background are very competent. Her plot, too, is sufficiently involved to hold the readers interest. All in all, another good effort and I recommend it. My only caution is that, if you're looking for a really baffling whodunit, this might not be it.	2003-09-14
US	51624230	RMWZK1P5RUVY	0756400562	34800329	Patterns of Chaos Omnibus #2 (Ominibus, 2)	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	Similar Patterns	This is the second volume in the PATTERNS OF CHAOS series, comprising the third and fourth original books. I reviewed the first volume a short time ago, and what I wrote in that review holds true for this volume. In short, I found the plot was pretty good and the characters sympathetic and appealing. There were three aspects of it that I was critical of. First, the not-so-alien aliens. Second, the author's use of a psi power called \\"bahdur\\" as a plot device. Finally, I thought that potentially compelling action situations in the story were glossed over. See my earlier review for a more complete discussion of these issues.<br />This volume generally has the same strengths and weaknesses as the first. In fact, the use of \\"bahdur\\" becomes ever more outrageous. Sometimes characters can tell who the attacking pilot is in another flyer through it, others times they are not even aware of enemies right outside their door until it's too late, or are unaware of the nearby presence of a close friend or ally.<br />Besides the above, however, there is one additional criticism I will add in regard to this volume. It has a very abrupt ending. The story builds toward a final confrontation, but as I got into the last twenty or thirty pages it seemed that there was still a lot that needed to happen. I actually went back and looked to see if there was another volume in the series. I didn't think the author could possibly wrap everything up in the few pages that remained. The bad news is, he doesn't. The climactic scene is pulled off and a brief denouement follows, but a lot of loose ends are just left dangling.<br />PATTERNS OF CHAOS held my interest all the way through both volumes, but I was disappointed in the ending and, at the same time, glad it was over by the time I got there. It's a mildly entertaining read, especially if you can overlook the weaknesses and inconsistencies, but it ends up being just mediocre, given the shortcomings. If you've already read the first volume, you'll probably want to read this one just to see how it all comes out, but I can't recommend it.'ll probably want to read this one just to see how it all comes out, but I can't recommend it.	2003-09-03
US	51624230	RNC4SYEQNLR8L	0446405337	269703859	The Rose Rent (Chronicles of Brother Cadfael)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Another Nifty Cadfael Tale	THE ROSE RENT is the thirteenth book in the Brother Cadfael series. As such, it is much like the others in a general way. That is, the mystery isn't difficult to see through, so you'll probably have figured out &quot;whodunit&quot; before the solution is entirely revealed, and twelfth century living conditions are probably a bit idealized. On the other hand, the historical events are &quot;right on&quot;, the prose is elegant, and the characterization is outstanding. Indeed, for those who have read most, or all, of the preceeding books in the series, Brother Cadfael and the other Shrewsbury regulars are like old friends.<br />The Brother Cadfael mysteries aren't (in my opinion, at least) the most intricate or baffling of mysteries, but they work so well on other levels that they're a pleasure to read just the same. An editorial quote on the back cover of THE ROSE RENT mentions the &quot;lively characterization&quot; and &quot;graceful, literate prose&quot;. I think that sums these books up pretty well. I have read them all up through this one and I plan on reading the rest, so it's safe to conclude I'm enjoying them. I recommend this one along with all the others. I also recommend reading them more or less in order from the beginning, as later books sometimes refer to earlier ones and personal histories build from book to book.	2003-08-21
US	51624230	R39JTHT41D3OLQ	0446405337	269703859	The Rose Rent (Chronicles of Brother Cadfael)	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Another Nifty Cadfael Tale	THE ROSE RENT is the thirteenth book in the Brother Cadfael series. As such, it is much like the others in a general way. That is, the mystery isn't difficult to see through, so you'll probably have figured out &quot;whodunit&quot; before the solution is entirely revealed, and twelfth century living conditions are probably a bit idealized. On the other hand, the historical events are &quot;right on&quot;, the prose is elegant, and the characterization is outstanding. Indeed, for those who have read most, or all, of the preceeding books in the series, Brother Cadfael and the other Shrewsbury regulars are like old friends.<br />The Brother Cadfael mysteries aren't (in my opinion, at least) the most intricate or baffling of mysteries, but they work so well on other levels that they're a pleasure to read just the same. An editorial quote on the back cover of THE ROSE RENT mentions the &quot;lively characterization&quot; and &quot;graceful, literate prose&quot;. I think that sums these books up pretty well. I have read them all up through this one and I plan on reading the rest, so it's safe to conclude I'm enjoying them. I recommend this one along with all the others. I also recommend reading them more or less in order from the beginning, as later books sometimes refer to earlier ones and personal histories build from book to book.	2003-08-21
US	51624230	R399FQL34RA818	0756400554	34800329	Patterns of Chaos Omnibus #1 (Patterns of Chaos Monibus, 1)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Patterns Pro And Con	What we have here is a four-part series consolidated into two volumes. This is the first volume and comprises the first half of the full story. It revolves around an alien race that inhabits a planet called Cho. The Choyans are a leading race in an interstellar compact of races. Their power rests on a monopoly over faster-than-light travel. Any ship that must travel interstellar distances requires a Choyan pilot and his/her little black box. Other races are anxious to acquire the secret of the Choyan technology, but the real secret is that the black box is a red herring. In truth, the Choyan ability to navigate the \\"patterns of chaos\\" (that is, the ftl environment) rests on a secret psi power called \\"bahdur\\". Moreover, not all Choyans have bahdur. Thus, on one hand the compact has a scarcity of pilots for ftl travel while on the other, Choyan society is two-tiered, with have and have-not castes. Humans are a newly-discovered and lightly-regarded race.<br />The upside of this book is a plot laden with political intrigue and peopled with engaging characters. It held my interest from start to finish. Unfortunately, the story also has what I consider to be three glaring weaknesses. First (and this is a problem that I find with most sci fi), the aliens aren't very alien. The Choyans, aside from their bahdur, are essentially human. The differences Ingrid puts in are, at best, only superficial. Choyans are basically humanoid in structure, culture, and emotions. Their planet has \\"insects\\", \\"pine trees\\" and a full range of earthlike characteristics. The chief \\"bad guys\\" are little more than humanoid amphibians.<br />Second, I have never been a fan of stories based on far-reaching (and far-fetched, in my opinion) mental powers. Such powers are typically just a convenient device to allow the author to take liberties with the plot. And that seems very much the case here. Bahdur is a vague and undefined power that allows the possessor to do whatever Ingrid finds useful at any given point in the story. As the events proceed, bahdur allows its possessors to do more and more things besides navigate chaos. Further, though apparently genetically based, it can be stolen by, or transferred to, other characters.<br />Finally, as noted by other reviewers, Ingrid bypasses some of the potentially most action-packed parts of the story. Major battles are given short shrift in this tale. Admittedly, the story revolves around its personal and political conflicts, but some expanded action sequences wouldn't have hurt.<br />In sum, this book has some interesting aspects. Plot and characterization are fine. Enough so that I will read the second volume since I've come this far. It is hurt by several shortcomings, however, and these detracted from the experience. It's a mediocre effort and I can't really recommend it. For those who can overlook the problems, it's not a bad tale, but there are lots of better books out there.ven point in the story. As the events proceed, bahdur allows its possessors to do more and more things besides navigate chaos. Further, though apparently genetically based, it can be stolen by, or transferred to, other characters.<br />Finally, as noted by other reviewers, Ingrid bypasses some of the potentially most action-packed parts of the story. Major battles are given short shrift in this tale. Admittedly, the story revolves around its personal and political conflicts, but some expanded action sequences wouldn't have hurt.<br />In sum, this book has some interesting aspects. Plot and characterization are fine. Enough so that I will read the second volume since I've come this far. It is hurt by several shortcomings, however, and these detracted from the experience. It's a mediocre effort and I can't really recommend it. For those who can overlook the problems, it's not a bad tale, but there are lots of better books out there.	2003-08-10
US	51624230	R2ZS8F18RJB1S0	0446609145	559013514	Void Moon	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Connelly Keeps 'Em Coming	Cassie Black served prison time for a Las Vegas heist that went bad. Now, she is on parole in L.A. and trying to stay on the straight and narrow. The trouble is, she has a sudden need for a large sum of money. She decides to take a chance on pulling another burglary, even though the job is in the same place she was caught six years ago. Worse still, things continue to go wrong. Not only does the job not go as planned, but it turns out that things were different than they seemed initially. People start dying and Cassie finds herself running for her life.<br />VOID MOON is the fifth book by Connelly that I've read and the first one that didn't feature Detective Harry Bosch. The Bosch tales were all excellent and this one continues in that vein. It is taut, suspenseful and keeps you turning the pages even in those instances when you think you know what's going to happen next. It's also very well researched. Cassie is a sophisticated, high-tech crook and every aspect of what she does is related in fascinating detail. It's another Connelly book that I simply didn't want to put down. I recommend it highly.	2003-06-22
US	51624230	R2SGP8VC5FV46G	0671577883	367834271	Black on Black	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Space Opera With A Difference	BLACK ON BLACK is a nicely realized space opera with a difference. In the ordinary way, we have humans (and allies?) at war against a nasty alien species (the flek) that takes planets and alters the environment, obliterating the native species in the process and exploiting the resources for their own purposes. The planet Anktan, inhabited by the hrinn, has been a backwater in this war. It has a small human outpost, but the hrinn are a low-tech species that don't travel off-planet. When Sgt. Blackeagle, a hrinn who has spent almost his entire life in human society, returns to Anktan looking for his heritage, he finds himself a stranger among his own kind. He also finds that Anktan has become a pawn in the human-flek war.<br />The difference in BLACK ON BLACK is that the humans and flek play a secondary role in the story. The book is primarily about Blackeagle and the hrinn, and is told mostly from their point of view. Telling a story convincingly from an alien point of view is a trick that's not easy to pull off, but Wentworth does a nice job of it here. She makes Blackeagle, with all of his doubts and confusion, and the native hrinn, with their alien customs and habits, seem both believable and sympathetic.<br />BLACK ON BLACK is a notch above ordinary space opera. Wentworth tells her story from an unusual point of view and tells it well. I'm looking forward to the sequel. If you like science fiction, I think you'll enjoy this. I did.	2003-06-06
US	51624230	R3FI7IZROL4T33	0425177173	842248212	Atlantis Found (Dirk Pitt, No. 15)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not To Be Repetitive, But...	This is my second Cussler novel. I don't know if I would have read a second one, but I already had this one. In fact, I have yet another waiting on my shelf -- a gift from someone. The first one didn't impress me that much and this one, ATLANTIS FOUND, is just more of the same. On the positive side, there's lots of action. The story never slows down, which is probably all most Cussler fans are looking for. Character and plausibility take a back seat to fast-paced action, and if that's all you want, then ATLANTIS FOUND is great stuff.<br />Beyond the action, however, the characters here ARE wooden. Dirk Pitt, the hero, is always flawless and never experiences a moment of doubt or uncertainty. Someone has described him as a combination of James Bond and Indiana Jones, and he's every bit of that and more. He's the ultimate hero. The nasties are of the cookie-cutter variety. Further, the plot verges on the ridiculous. This is typical of the genre and many are okay with it, but it can get difficult to swallow, even for a reader like me, who is comfortable with fantasy and science fiction. It's my opinion that if a writer sets a story in the real world, then there are limits to how far the bounds of reality can comfortably be stretched. Cussler skirts my limit very closely.<br />The worst thing about this, and the other Cussler novel I've read, is that the writing simply isn't very good. Other reviewers have made the same point. Cussler's metaphors often clanged in my mind. For example, he writes \\"The waning stars in the early-morning sky blazed like a theater marquee when seen from 9,000 feet above sea level.\\" Huh? Not only does it read clumsily, but the idea of comparing stars to a theater marquee must have Shakespeare turning over in his grave. Also, words are often simply misused. Cussler writes \\"The day was typical for the nation's capital, the climate hot and sultry.\\" The \\"day\\" may have been \\"hot and sultry\\", but the term \\"weather\\" would be more appropriate in this statement than \\"climate\\".<br />If lightweight, fast-paced action is all you want, Cussler's books will work fine for you, and ATLANTIS FOUND is no exception to that. This book will NOT put you to sleep. But, if you seek a small degree of plausibility, character development, or simply competent writing, my advice is to look elsewhere. I zipped through this book quickly and was entertained, but was mildly disappointed by the time it was over. Things got further and further over the top as I got nearer to the end. Overall, ATLANTIS FOUND was entertaining enough to rate four stars, but flawed enough to hold back to three.statement than \\"climate\\".<br />If lightweight, fast-paced action is all you want, Cussler's books will work fine for you, and ATLANTIS FOUND is no exception to that. This book will NOT put you to sleep. But, if you seek a small degree of plausibility, character development, or simply competent writing, my advice is to look elsewhere. I zipped through this book quickly and was entertained, but was mildly disappointed by the time it was over. Things got further and further over the top as I got nearer to the end. Overall, ATLANTIS FOUND was entertaining enough to rate four stars, but flawed enough to hold back to three.	2003-06-03
US	51624230	R2XJRSBE87MZPF	0345396537	855284075	First King of Shannara	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Among The Best From Brooks	I've previously read the three books in the original Shannara series and the four books in the Heritage of Shannara series. I enjoyed them all very much, although I though some were better than others. THE FIRST KING OF SHANNARA is a prequel to the others, with the action taking place several hundred years before the events taken up in THE SWORD OF SHANNARA. The drawback here, for me, was that it's been many years since I read those books, particularly the first series. Hence, this latest tale gives background to things in the later series that I hardly remember.<br />That issue aside, I've always had a couple of other small problems with Brooks' writing. It's always seemed to me that either the world of The Four Lands is lilliputian, or the characters in these books walk at extraordinary speed. Brooks frequently has characters traverse passes through mountains in a day. Early in this book, Bremen and his companions go from Paranor south through mountains to the Mermidon in a day, then go from there (the western end of the Dragon's Teeth) to near the Valley of Shale (at the eastern end of the Dragon's Teeth), a distance that would have to be 100 miles or more based on maps from the books, the following day. Admittedly, these are imaginary places, but, as someone who has done a little backpacking, the sheer unreasonableness of traveling such distances on foot in the timeframe given in the stories always bothers me. Try walking through a range of mountains in a day or two. Further, these characters seem inexhaustable. They get tired and haggard, but they hike for days at a time, often continuing far into the night, with little food and little sleep. Superman couldn't do it.<br />These are, however, small problems. The fact is, the Shannara books are quite good and, in my opinion, THE FIRST KING OF SHANNARA is one of the better ones. The characters, as usual, have depth, and Brooks provides beautiful descriptive passages, setting his scenes in great detail without being ponderous. In addition, though, this is one of his more engrossing plots. The story moves at a strong, steady pace and there is plenty of action. This book is great fun. Not Tolkien, in my mind, but excellent just the same. Brooks fans will love it. For others, this book can stand on its own, but I recommend reading the original Shannara series first. If you like fantasy fiction, this is a must.g ponderous. In addition, though, this is one of his more engrossing plots. The story moves at a strong, steady pace and there is plenty of action. This book is great fun. Not Tolkien, in my mind, but excellent just the same. Brooks fans will love it. For others, this book can stand on its own, but I recommend reading the original Shannara series first. If you like fantasy fiction, this is a must.	2003-05-18
US	51624230	RWC1YN8Z822M0	0425173089	171828866	The Moche Warrior (Archaeological Mysteries, No. 3)	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Entertaining	THE MOCHE WARRIOR is the third entry in Lyn Hamilton's Lara McClintoch series. I read the first two, THE XIBALBA MURDERS and THE MALTESE GODDESS, several years ago. I was lukewarm on the former, but somewhat disappointed in the latter. Sufficiently disappointed that I had no particular inclination to purchase this third book. Finally, though, time triumphed over memory. Recollections of the reasons for my disenchantment with THE MALTESE GODDESS faded to the point where I decided to give THE MOCHE WARRIOR a shot. I'm glad I did. While I will agree with others who find it a bit incongruous for a character to just take off at the drop of a hat on a lengthy and costly expedition to Mexico and Peru (anyone else ever notice how money is rarely a consideration for fictional characters, whether in movies, TV, or books), it's hard to say how any of us would react if we thought our life was in imminent danger, and credit cards do make it possible to postpone costs. Nevertheless, I found the plot engaging enough to keep me turning the pages despite the improbabilities. To be fair, what work of fiction doesn't have some improbabilities in it? Further, I found the setting interesting (the arid Peruvian coast) and the archeology intriguing. All in all, I enjoyed this book. More than I expected to, in fact. As a result, I already have the next book in the series, and I'm giving THE MOCHE WARRIOR four stars. If you like nice little mysteries, consider giving this one a try.	2003-05-14
US	51624230	R2GB78NQ4FTOHF	067172147X	629752719	Path of the Fury (Fury Series)	Books	4	16	17	N	Y	Surprisingly Good	PATH OF THE FURY is the first David Weber book I've read. With over 35 years of scifi behind me, I still enjoy a rousing \\"spaceopera\\" This one was highly rated by readers and amazon kept recommending it, so I decided to give it a try. By the time it arrived, though, I was having second thoughts. The hype-laden cover, complete with flaming letters, didn't help, but after letting it languish on my shelf for a couple of years, I figured it was time to get on with with it. Imagine my surprise when it turned out to be pretty good.<br />Don't get me wrong. PATH OF THE FURY doesn't quite rank among my all-time scifi favorites. Nor can I find it within myself to give this kind of book a five star rating. Nevertheless, it has an engaging story line and the main characters have more depth than you usually get in books in this genre. And, as you would expect, there's lots of action. It's definitely not dull.<br />I thought the idea of bringing an ancient Greek demi-goddess into the story was a bit over the top. I took this to be scifi, not fantasy. I can accept a lot as far as future technology, alien lifeforms and new worlds go. After all, nobody knows what the future (or the universe), holds. But mythological entities from the past don't fall within that realm as far as I'm concerned. Still, it works tolerably well within the context of this tale, so this is a minor issue.<br />I liked this book. It was well-plotted, there was lots of action, and the main character, though something of a super-woman (not to mention the assistance of the demi-goddess), was conflicted and sympathetic. If you like good \\"spaceopera\\", PATH OF THE FURY fills the bill.	2003-05-11
US	51624230	R2W6ILIJ2R29H1	0312973055	369520939	Robert Ludlum's The Hades Factor	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Ludlum Does Cook	Robin Cook was a pioneer, and remains a major figure, in the medical thriller sub-genre. In THE HADES PROJECT, Robert Ludlum has written a tale very reminiscent of Cook. Cook would have provided a little more clinical detail, but this is still very similar to much of his work. In fact, it's better than a lot of Cook's recent stuff.<br />The similarity to Cook aside, though, this isn't one of Ludlum's best. That shouldn't be too surprising because Ludlum is listed as only a co-author along with Gayle Lynds. I'm not personally familiar with Lynds' work, but THE HADES PROJECT lacks Ludlum's usual intensity and sophistication. I have no idea how much input Ludlum had in it's writing, but it isn't, in my opinion, up to the standard generally set in his vintage works (THE OSTERMAN WEEKEND, THE RHINEMAN EXCHANGE, THE HOLCROFT COVENANT, THE GEMINI CONTENDERS, etc.). Further, the main character, Lt. Colonel Jonathan Smith, seems a bit of a super-hero caricature. Moreover, he swings from mourning the death of his fiancee one moment to participating in her autopsy the next. That strikes me as a bit more intimate than even a certified pathologist might care to get. Smith, although he is a medical doctor and researcher, isn't a pathologist. Nor is he the only character that's a little over the top. The \\"bad guys\\" are wooden and almost too evil to be believed. Only the aging CEO has any misgivings at all about what is going on.<br />More interesting are Smith's friends Marty Zellerbach and Peter Howell. Both are quirky in a likeable way and the scenes in Marty's house are among this book's highlights. The scenes in Saddam's Iraqi police state are also interesting and probably quite realistic.<br />While this isn't Ludlum at his best, it still isn't bad. There's plenty of action, some of the characters are very engaging, and the story fast-paced enough to keep you turning the pages. The ending is somewhat quick and it all shakes out a bit too easily, but most of the ride is sufficiently bumpy to be fun and entertaining. It may not be five stars, but it's better than average.iently bumpy to be fun and entertaining. It may not be five stars, but it's better than average.	2003-05-03
US	51624230	R2IZGQ5JZATGGN	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Read A GAME OF THRONES	Clearly, since I've given A CLASH OF KINGS a five-star rating, it's safe to conclude that I liked it. A lot, as a matter of fact. But that doesn't mean you will. Most of the other  reviewers here appear to have liked it, but not all of them by any means. Many have also described the book and/or the leading characters, so I won't try to improve on that. Instead,  I will simply pass along my thoughts, as follows:<br />You should not even consider reading A CLASH OF KINGS unless you have already read A GAME OF THRONES, its predecessor. If you've read A GAME OF THRONES and liked it, you will almost certainly like A CLASH OF KINGS. It's more of the same tale, with all of the strengths of the first book carried forward. By the same token, if you didn't like the first book (for whatever reasons), don't bother with this one.<br />Personally, after reading these two books, I feel that this series is one of the top fantasy series in print. I don't happen to feel that it's quite on a par with Tolkien, as some have asserted. Tolkien, a life-long English scholar, wrote with an elegance that few can match (not to take anything away from Martin, he's just not quite in that class). Tolkien's work also had a touch of sympathy and humor that isn't present here. These books are fascinating and well-written, but there is scarcely a hint of humor and little sympathy in them. Frodo has no loyal Samwise here. Nevertheless, the complexity, intricate plotting, depth of characterization, and ability and willingness of the author to surprise the reader are first-rate. Nobody is safe in these books and there's not always a clear division between &quot;good guys&quot; and &quot;bad guys&quot;. There's no opportunity for the committed reader to become complacent.<br />Simply put, I think this is great stuff, and a lot of other people agree. If you're wavering over whether or not to give this series a try, then DO it. Hesitate no longer. But don't start here, start with A GAME OF THRONES.	2003-04-20
US	51624230	R2ETQ12TDVW09Q	0380731630	381529543	Skeleton Dance (Gideon Oliver Mysteries)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Roll Them Bones	SKELETON DANCE is the tenth Gideon Oliver mystery Aaron Elkins has written. I've read all ten. I guess that makes me a fan. This one finds Gideon and Julie in the south of France on a trip that was intended to be part vacation and part research excursion for a book Gideon plans to write. It seems a dog has turned up some not-so-old human bones from a prehistoric site in the area. Police Inspector Joly asks Gideon to examine the bones for clues.<br />Like all the other books in this series, Elkins manages to make the examination of a few bones fascinating. There is always some unique bit of information to be gleaned by the trained eye. On the other hand, these aren't the most intriguing mysteries ever. Sometimes the &quot;surprising&quot; developments aren't all that surprising. The clues are clever and the writing is witty, though. Gideon and Julie are familiar, easy-to-like characters and Elkins infuses the stories with a wry sense of humor. The result is a story that keeps the reader entertained and wanting to see what happens next. Even if it only confirms what you thought.<br />I always hesitate to give a Gideon Oliver mystery five stars. These stories aren't really on a par with a classic creation like Sherlock Holmes. Of the light mysteries currently being written, however, these are among my favorites. I look forward to each one and always enjoy them. Inevitably, though, I have enjoyed some more than others. In my opinion, SKELETON DANCE is one of the better ones.	2003-04-10
US	51624230	R2NVIMA6KCC8QW	1584854871	200551712	Mystery at Chilkoot Pass (American Girl History Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Don't Pass This One By	MYSTERY AT CHILKOOT PASS is the 17th book in the \\"History Mystery\\" series. It is autumn, 1897, and twelve-year-old Hetty,  her friend Alma, their parents, and Hetty's Uncle Donall have left their homes in San Francisco to seek gold in the Klondike gold rush. They must get themselves and three tons of supplies and equipment up and over Chilkoot Pass before winter sets in. Thousands of other goldhunters are making the same trek. The story follows their struggle from the time they leave their ship near the coastal town of Dyea until they ascend the Pass. Along the way, large amounts of cash and small personal items of little value disappear. Hetty suspects her uncle might be a thief. Thieves are dealt with harshly in this frontier environment. Hetty proves to be a person of strength and resolution. She works hard and does what she has to in the face of hardship and death.<br />MYSTERY AT CHILKOOT PASS is a worthy addition to the \\"History Mystery\\" series. It will make you appreciate the hardships people were prepared to endure in the pursuit of fortune. It may also make you wonder what could have possessed people to leave their homes and put themselves through such hardships on the slim chance that they might find enough gold to make themselves rich. A nice introduction to an interesting bit of history.	2003-04-10
US	51624230	R2CVPT72POIAZ2	0375751475	397972214	Bulfinch's Mythology: Includes The Age of Fable, The Age of Chivalry & Legends of Charlemagne (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	A Must Have	BULFINCH'S MYTHOLOGY is THE classic introduction to ancient and medieval myths. In three volume's, Thomas Bulfinch recounted and referenced classical stories of Graeco-Roman gods and heroes, Homer's Iliad and Odyssey, Norse and Hindu mythology, the Arthurian legends, Robin Hood, the Mabinogeon, and the tales of Chalemagne and his paladins. All three volumes are combined here in a single book. Besides making great reading on their own, these tales, and the values and ideals that they illustrate, are at the very heart of western literature and culture. Shakespeare, Milton, and most of the other icons of English literature drew on them repeatedly. The modern fantasy genre has its origins in this material. Tolkien was inspired by it. They are &quot;must&quot; reading for anyone who aspires to be considered &quot;educated&quot;.<br />There are just a couple of negatives here. The particular edition I have has a lot of typographical errors in it. There were such  things as a sentence beginning &quot;She...&quot; when clearly it should have begun &quot;The...&quot;, for example. Further, one can find fuller retellings of specific stories in other places. These are minor points, however. Bulfinch is still the classic introduction and source for mythological tales. Plus, as I said, it's great fun. Most people can profit from Bulfinch. Fantasy fans should especially love it.	2003-03-31
US	51624230	R2BBVKF0N1FMPZ	1584855339	928292776	The Strange Case of Baby H (American Girl History Mysteries)	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	You'll Be Quaking In Your Boots	Clara Curfman and her family live in San Francisco in 1906. Clara's house gets a hard jolt when the great earthquake hits, but when the violent shaking subsides it's still standing. Aftershocks continue in the days that follow and huge fires ravage much of the city. Clara and her family, along with the boarders that inhabit their house, are forced to live in the yard for fear that the house may yet collapse. In the midst of all the chaos, a baby in a basket is left on their front porch. Even more strangely, what appears to be a boy baby turns out to be a girl in disguise. Further, Clara realizes that strangers are watching her house. Before this story is over, both the baby and Clara face great danger. Clara, finding herself in one tight spot after another, responds with courage and resolve.<br />THE STRANGE CASE OF BABY H is a suspenseful and action-packed tale set in the midst of one of the greatest natural disasters of the twentieth century. The author does a nice job of weaving accurate historical details into the story without sacrificing the immediacy of the plot. Being residents of the San Francisco area, this story had a little extra interest for us. On the other hand, the plot is often rather predictable. As the \\"History Mystery\\" series goes, this one is about average. That's still pretty good, though. We've found \\"History Mysteries\\" to be of good quality in general, and my daughter and I always enjoy reading them together.	2003-03-12
US	51624230	R2QACQZDGL00GH	0446602930	41833772	Fool's War	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	A Good Book -- No Fooling	FOOL'S WAR is one of the best scifi books I've read in the last couple of years. No humans with far-fetched mental powers. No apocalyptic ending. Just a good, fast-paced story with some engaging (and generally believable) characters and a plot that keeps you guessing. Not all the plot twists were entirely unforeseen, but there were enough surprises to keep it interesting. Also, the technology was mostly plausible and understandable for the casual (scientifically challenged?) reader. The book is a little hard to get into at first, but this is true of many books. It can be unclear at first how seemingly unconnected people and events relate to each other. A little patience is well worth the effort with FOOL'S WAR.<br />I had never read anything by Zettel before, but this book kept appearing in my \\"recommendations\\" from Amazon, so I gave it a try. I'm definitely not sorry. Kudos to Amazon and I'll be reading more of Ms. Zettel's work in the future.	2003-03-04
US	51624230	R23GSMN93GMQXV	0312958455	628100476	The Last Coyote (Harry Bosch #4)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Connelly Strikes Again	THE LAST COYOTE is the fourth Harry Bosch novel in Michael Connelly's series and the fourth one I've read. I haven't been disappointed yet. Connelly writes taut, suspenseful mysteries that keep you guessing right to the end. His background as an L.A. jornalist gives him the experience necessary to depict criminal investigations in a realistic and believable way. His stories are gritty and graphic, so be prepared for that, but he definitely keeps you turning the page to see what happens next.<br />In THE LAST COYOTE, Harry Bosch is on suspension and under psychiatric evaluation. With time on his hands, he decides to take up the investigation of an unsolved murder from thirty years ago. The victim was his mother.<br />Connelly's Harry Bosch series is great. THE LAST COYOTE is the fourth one for me and I have thoroughly enjoyed them all (if you're new to Harry Bosch, start with THE BLACK ECHO and read them in order). The characterization has depth, the plots are well-constructed and full of surprises, and Connelly's writing is well-executed. I recommend this, and all of the previous Harry Bosch books, very highly.	2003-02-06
US	51624230	R1IX6IGN77ST3L	0671742760	305457714	Dragon	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Action/Thriller That's VERY Far From Reality	This novel finds action hero Dirk Pitt battling a sinister conspiracy that threatens to establish Japanese commercial dominance over the US and the rest of the world. Given Japan's long-standing economic woes, this seems a bit silly now, but back in the late 1980's (when Japan's economy was soaring and many US assets were coming under Japanese control) it doubtless rang truer. The action is non-stop and some of the plot twists are rather ingenious. Many of these twists are far-fetched, however, if not simply outlandish. Much like the old serial thrillers (i.e. Flash Gordon) turned out by Hollywood back in the 1930's. And there's nothing wrong with this. It's good, clean fun. But the adult reader will often find it hard to suspend disbelief to such an extent.<br />Another aspect worth noting here is the quality of the writing. This is the first Cussler novel I've read and one thing that struck me was the relatively poor use of language. The syntax is sophomoric. The text is replete with poor choices of words and clumsy dialogue. This isn't entirely the author's fault, but it detracts from the overall experience of reading the book. I don't know who edited DRAGON, but whoever it was didn't earn their money.<br />Typical of this genre, DRAGON is a fast-paced but far-fetched story. Further, compared to writers like Ludlum, Crichton and others, the quality of the writing leaves something to be desired. Still, it's a light, fun read. Will I read more of Cussler's Dirk Pitt novels? Yeah, I already have two more on my shelf (given to me by others). This one is mediocre, though, and I can't really recommend it. Fans of this series will like DRAGON, but others might want to look before they buy.	2003-01-29
US	51624230	R3DK5NFJS8HMEE	1584853395	725715844	Circle of Fire (American Girl History Mysteries)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Another Good History Mystery	Mendy is a twelve-year-old African American girl living in rural Tennessee in the late 1950's. She is an admirer of Eleanor Roosevelt and is thrilled when her father tells her that Mrs. Roosevelt is coming to visit the Highlander School, which is located only a few miles away. Soon, however, she discovers that the men that have been meeting in her favorite clearing in the nearby woods belong to the Ku Klux Klan and are planning an attack on Mrs. Roosevelt when she appears at Highlander. Mendy feels she must do something to prevent the attack, but what can she do? Will she get herself in danger?<br />This story is based on a real incident and conveys a small taste of the violence, hatred and fear inspired by the KKK. As a piece of literature, it is not quite up to the standard set by such things as the Harry Potter books. Nevertheless, this book gives young readers experience of a genuine American historical setting while also providing a positive role model and some insight into the evils of bigotry and racial discrimination. It is another solid entry in the \\"History Mystery\\" series and my daughter and I both enjoyed it together. We recommend it.	2003-01-18
US	51624230	RSDXDZ11DCB0Z	0451204050	955094502	On Secret Service	Books	4	5	5	N	N	But The End Is Still The Same	ON SECRET SERVICE is the first book I've read by John Jakes. I must say that I'm impressed. The thorough knowledge and understanding of the Civil War period displayed by Jakes in this book is impressive. The literary portraits he draws of relatively little-known, but real, historical figures such as Alan Pinkerton, Lafayette Baker and Elizabeth Van Lew, combine with his well-constructed fictional characters to pull the reader into the story. His sense of the public moods of the times and his use of arcane historical detail, such as the use of balloons for surveillance, lends the story added interest and greater credibility.<br />With all of these strengths, however, the book also has a certain melancholy inevitability about it. In spite of all the effort and all the suffering of the hero, Lon, President Lincoln still ends up dead at the hands of John Wilkes Booth. Nothing  can change that. Moreover, the romance between Lon and Margaret follows a rather predictable course. Finally, when all is said and done, everyone ends up deeply scarred by their experiences in the War. As fitting as this probably is, it is nice to feel that the survivors are headed for happier lives once the War is over, but one of the final images is of Margaret crying as she and Lon leave Washington to go west.<br />ON SECRET SERVICE is an excellent book in many ways. The quality of the writing is first rate, the characterization is good, and the historical detail is fascinating. There is plenty of action and it holds your interest all the way. But, in the end, Lincoln still dies. This isn't the author's fault, but the inevitability of it, and the mundane romantic storyline, hold my rating to four stars. Good, but not quite great. I do recommend it, though, especially for Civil War buffs.	2002-12-28
US	51624230	R2E41YP5ISTN7F	1584853069	55583507	Enemy in the Fort (American Girl History Mysteries)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Mixed Reactions	ENEMY IN THE FORT provides a vivid glimpse of life on the New England frontier during the French and Indian War. The action begins in 1752, when Rebecca and Selinda are left homeless after an Indian raid on their family's farm. Their parents and baby brother are taken captive and their home is burned down. The girls are taken in by a sickly widow who lives inside the nearby fort. By 1754, Selinda has become indentured to another family living in the fort. At this time, the widow takes in Isaac, a settler boy who has been recaptured after being raised by the Indians. As the story develops, the family Selinda is indentured to decides to move to Connecticut. They insist on taking Selinda with them. Further, things have been disappearing from settler homes inside the fort, and some of the settlers are openly hostile towards Isaac. Rebecca's effort to prevent her sister from being taken away becomes entangled in the series of thefts. Is Isaac responsible for the thefts? Can Rebecca keep Selinda from being separated from her?<br />As with other tales in the \\"History Mystery\\" series, the reader is drawn into a genuine historical setting. The problems faced by the young protagonists are real and their resolution requires courage and resolve. This particular story also has a rather involved plot and requires the main character to re-examine some deeply held feelings and beliefs. In short, there's plenty here to hold your attention.<br />I read this book with my daughter. She pushed to keep reading, so I know it caught and held her interest. When we finished it, however, her comment was that she didn't like it as much as some other books in the series, mostly because she didn't like the ending. I can understand her feelings. Some aspects of the story aren't tied up as neatly as a young reader might wish. For example, no immediate price is paid for the theft of Rebecca's spoons, nor does she recover them. The outcome is realistic, given the circumstances, but not entirely satisfying. I, on the other hand, thought the involved plot, complex characterization, and realistic ending made this one of the best books in the \\"History Mystery\\" series. You be the judge. At the least, I think you'll find this story isn't easy to put down.sfying. I, on the other hand, thought the involved plot, complex characterization, and realistic ending made this one of the best books in the \\"History Mystery\\" series. You be the judge. At the least, I think you'll find this story isn't easy to put down.	2002-12-22
US	51624230	R3HCYC7JF5OOJZ	0446604100	717342865	The Broken Promise Land	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	This Land Is Pretty Entertaining	THE BROKEN PROMISE LAND is another entry in Muller's popular Sharon McCone series. I don't know if I'd characterize myself as a fan of these tales. At least, not like somebody who joins a \\"fan club\\" or buys hardcover copies and tries to get the author's autograph on them. I do enjoy the series enough, however, to have read all of them up through this one. In general, I rate the McCone mysteries about four stars. That's above average and explains why I keep coming back.<br />THE BROKEN PROMISE LAND is, in my opinion, one of the better stories in the series so far. Regular readers will enjoy the update on changes taking place in McCone's life and in the lives of other familiar characters that surround her. Beyond that, though, this is one of Ms. Muller's better plots. Both McCone and her current beau, Hy Ripinsky, get drawn into the action when her brother-in-law, Ricky Savage, who is a genuine country music star, becomes involved with a stalker. From there, the action is fast-paced, both in terms of the mystery and the personal turmoil it entails for McCone and some of her friends and family members.<br />I have just two minor problems with this story (if you don't want to know anything about what happens in the book you should skip this paragraph). First, I thought that Ricky falling out of his marriage and directly into the welcoming arms of Rae a bit too easy, too convenient. It keeps Ricky in the mix and gives Charlotte an easy entree for future stories, but it was just too pat to suit me. Second, I thought the the events in the final moments, when everything finally becomes clear and the reader is all set for the big final showdown, was a letdown. Too quick and too easy an end after all the effort to uncover the wacko stalker.<br />THE BROKEN PROMISE LAND is a book that will please and entertain McCone fans, but beyond that it's a good mystery that a casual reader will also find engrossing. Once you get going, it's one you won't easily put down. I've given it a strong four stars and I recommend it. Give it a try.strong four stars and I recommend it. Give it a try.	2002-12-15
US	51624230	R1JRRR92NUI1DU	1584853417	415091390	Mystery on Skull Island (American Girl History Mysteries)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Another Good One	The year is 1724 when twelve-year-old Rachel comes to Charles Town to live with her father. Her mother died when Rachel was five and she has lived with her grandparents ever since. She  makes a new friend in Sally, the tavern-owner's daughter, but their budding friendship is ended soon after the arrival of Miranda, Rachel's father's fiancee. To continue seeing each other, the girls decide to spent time on a small island near the town. They dub the island \\"Skull Island\\" after discovering a human skull near some quicksand on their first visit. They also discover a hidden lagoon, an overgrown trail, and mysterious carved symbols. Are pirates hiding stolen treasure on the island? The plot thickens when Rachel finds evidence of a secret relationship between Miranda and Mr. Craven, her father's business partner. Then her father's business is ruined when his ships are attacked by pirates. Is Miranda betraying Rachel's father? Can she save her father from disaster and keep her friendship with Sally?<br />Though she's now eleven, my daughter still often enjoys having me read to her when she goes to bed at night. We have been including books from the American Girl \\"History Mystery\\" series for two or three years, now. These books combine engaging stories with real historical settings, giving young readers useful insights into how people lived in those times along with  positive characters they can relate to. In general, we give the books in this series four stars. This one is one of my daughter's favorites, so this is an especially strong four-star pick and we strongly recommend it.	2002-11-30
US	51624230	R32UQNM478WW6X	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Not His Best	I consider Michael Crichton one of the better writers of contemporary popular fiction around. At his best, his books are riveting. Unfortunately, I didn't feel that TIMELINE was quite up to that standard. What bothers me is that I don't quite know why. There are plenty of ingredients here: interesting technology, lots of action, and a plot that's a real cliffhanger. As it turns out though, I found Crichton's attempt to explain quantum physics in laymans terms to be the single most interesting part of the story. Ultimately, I guess, I just didn't find the mid-1300's as dangerous as some of the other scenarios Crichton has given us in the past. The dangers are all human and, while there is plenty of violence, it always seemed that young, fit well-educated people from the late 20th century ought to be able to cope with neer-do-wells from 1350. Admittedly, being in their own environment would give the villains some advantages, but not enough.<br />All this is not to say that this wasn't an entertaining book; it was. I just didn't find it as compelling as some of Crichton's other tales. If you've read most of his other books, you'll probably want to read this, too. If you haven't, I suggest giving some of his other books a try. I liked ANDROMEDA STRAIN, SPHERE, JURASSIC PARK, LOST WORLD, and even EATERS OF THE DEAD better. Nevertheless, while TIMELINE isn't top-notch, I still rate it better than average. Give it a try -- just don't expect too much.	2002-10-13
US	51624230	RVNB2IB9EVBG3	0449219143	87812206	Bethlehem Road: A Charlotte and Thomas Pitt Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Road With A Pitt-Fall	BETHLEHEM ROAD is another installment in the Thomas and Charlotte Pitt series. As such, it has all of the usual features: interesting characters, many of whom are familiar as series regulars, an intriguing plot, Victorian London as the backdrop, and a burning social issue of the day that plays a significant role in the story. As occaisionally happens, Ms. Perry lets her soapbox get in the way of her mystery once or twice in this one, but that's only a minor problem.<br />For most of the story, the plot revolves around a series of murders involving MPs. Each is found tied to the same lamppost with his throat cut. Each was returning home alone and on foot from an evening session of Parliament. This is pretty riveting stuff, and for most of the book there is no obvious suspect. The only suspect on the horizon seems unlikely to be the perpetrator. Both Thomas and Charlotte are baffled. Ultimately, however, the solution to these murders is only the prelude to the real climax of the story, which is abrupt in true Anne Perry style. For me, the solution to (or, really, the rationale for) the lamppost murders is this book's weakness; it's what keeps this from being a five-star book. The lamppost murders, with their bizarre circumstances and the misery they provoke in the families of the victims, need a more compelling purpose than what we end up with here. At the risk of giving away too much, it just seemed to me that the lack of intent and motive for the murder of these men left a little to be desired when all was said and done.<br />BETHLEHEM ROAD is a pretty good mystery with most of the strengths usually found in the Pitt series. While Perry perhaps over-reaches herself a bit here in trying to pull off a plot within a plot, it will keep readers turning the pages from beginning to end. For me it was entertaining, even if ultimately a little frustrating. I recommend it to other mystery readers, particularly fans of the Pitt series.	2002-08-31
US	51624230	R2ZPVUJKEPR3PB	0449219143	87812206	Bethlehem Road: A Charlotte and Thomas Pitt Novel	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A Road With A Pitt-Fall	BETHLEHEM ROAD is another installment in the Thomas and Charlotte Pitt series. As such, it has all of the usual features: interesting and, in many cases, familiar characters, an intriguing plot, Victorian London as the backdrop, and a burning social issue of the day that plays a significant role in the story. As occaisionally happens, Ms. Perry lets her soapbox get in the way of her mystery once or twice in this one, but that's only a minor problem.<br />For most of the story, the plot revolves around a series of murders involving MPs. Each is found tied to the same lamppost with his throat cut. Each was returning home alone and on foot from an evening session of Parliament. This is pretty riveting stuff, and for most of the book there is no obvious suspect. The only suspect on the horizon seems unlikely to be the perpetrator. Both Thomas and Charlotte are baffled. Ultimately, however, the solution to this mystery is only the prelude to the real climax of the story, which is abrupt in true Anne Perry style. For me, the solution to (or, really, the rationale for) the lamppost murders is this book's weakness and it's what keeps this from being a five-star book. The lamppost murders need more of a tie-in. At the risk of giving away too much, it just seemed to me that the lack of intent and motive for these murders left a little to be desired when all was said and done.<br />BETHLEHEM ROAD is a pretty good mystery with most of the strengths usually found in the Pitt series. While Perry perhaps over-reaches herself a bit here in trying to pull off a plot within a plot, it will keep readers turning the pages from beginning to end. I found it entertaining and recommend it to other mystery readers, particularly fans of the Pitt series.	2002-08-31
US	51624230	R3VXNTT1VRP8ZP	0300074476	392856592	Theodosius: The Empire at Bay (Roman Imperial Biographies (Paperback))	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Theodosius And The Fall Of Rome	Theodosius was the last man to rule over the entire Roman Empire. He was appointed by Gratian, the young Emperor in the West, to rule the eastern half of the empire after the death of Valens at the battle of Adrianople. He became sole ruler the whole Empire after he defeated and executed Maximus, who had deposed and executed Gratian. As the last man to rule the full Empire, an understanding of Theodosius and his reign is crucial in understanding how and why the western Empire collapsed while the eastern Empire was able to survive.<br />As an undergraduate, I read numerous books and articles, each with their own unique view of why the western Empire failed. Gibbon largely blamed the the advent of Christianity for weakening Rome. Others have blamed everything from depopulation resulting from epidemics of the plague to gradual weakening of the Roman aristocracy due to poisoning from their leaden water pipes. Another theory credits the battle of Adrianople with weakening the Roman military and leading to over-dependence on unreliable Gothic tribesmen to fill the ranks.<br />Williams and Friell analyse events and the historical evidence, concluding that the military situation after Adrianople was retrievable and that Theodosius and Gratian were able to rebuild the eastern field army and re-establish stability by supporting each other in key situations. After Gratian's death, however, co-operation and mutual support between east and west became increasingly problematical. Theodosius began to pursue policies that weakened the Empire. He prompted internal dis-unity, especially in the west, by abandoning the long-standing policy of toleration towards pagans. Even more damaging, he followed a disastrous dynastic policy, promoting his two inept and untrained sons as his heirs and squandering limited military resources fighting fellow Romans while hordes of barbarians were massing just outside the borders. Further, he allowed unscrupulous ministers in his two capitals to promote the interests of one capital at the expense of the other. Thus, Alaric, instead of being controlled, was repeatedly foisted off on one part of the Empire by the other, causing enormous damage.<br />The authors make a clear and compelling argument that Theodosius, despite being an able ruler, lacked vision. As his reign wore on, he incresingly put his personal religious concerns and his dynastic interests ahead of the welfare of the Empire as a whole. This was particularly disastrous in the west, where money and manpower were more scarce. After his death, the Empire was left depleted and dis-united, its ablest leaders lacking the power and authority necessary to keep barbarian invaders at bay while his heirs dithered. This is a fascinating and well-reasoned account of the period from 378 to about 430. If you have an interest in the history of the late Roman Empire, or if you're just curious, this short and readable book is well worth the effort.e the interests of one capital at the expense of the other. Thus, Alaric, instead of being controlled, was repeatedly foisted off on one part of the Empire by the other, causing enormous damage.<br />The authors make a clear and compelling argument that Theodosius, despite being an able ruler, lacked vision. As his reign wore on, he incresingly put his personal religious concerns and his dynastic interests ahead of the welfare of the Empire as a whole. This was particularly disastrous in the west, where money and manpower were more scarce. After his death, the Empire was left depleted and dis-united, its ablest leaders lacking the power and authority necessary to keep barbarian invaders at bay while his heirs dithered. This is a fascinating and well-reasoned account of the period from 378 to about 430. If you have an interest in the history of the late Roman Empire, or if you're just curious, this short and readable book is well worth the effort.	2002-08-19
US	51624230	R1H9GNTJ7IWGUJ	0812522567	765543472	Santiago: A Myth of the Far Future	Books	4	16	18	N	Y	Space Cowboys	When I bought SANTIAGO, I was expecting a \\"space opera\\" type of novel. That is, a melodrama typified by shallow characterization, simple plot line and lots of action. What I wasn't quite prepared for was a \\"space western\\". That's what this is, though. It reads like a cowboy story complete with bounty hunters, a lawless frontier culture, and aliens calling themselves \\"the sioux nation\\" and living in teepees.<br />My first reaction was to laugh. The parallels are so blatant that it seemed comical. Resnick posits a galactic \\"frontier\\" where cheap, personal inter-stellar transportation is available and goes the whole nine yards in comparing it to the western frontier of the U.S. in the second half of the nineteenth century. It's like Dodge City goes galactic.<br />The surprising thing here is that Resnick actually pulls this off. It may seem a little corny at first (at least, it did to me), but overall it's entertaining and fun to read. Not only does the story move along at a good pace, but it is populated with some of the oddest and most intriguing characters imaginable. They aren't deep, but each is quirky and VERY different in his/her own way. Some are likable, some are at least sympathetic, some are downright despicable, but they're not boring. This progression of wierd characters is enough to keep the book from getting dull all by itself.<br />SANTIAGO isn't a deep, thought-provoking tale, but it is entertaining. I enjoyed it. It's fluff, but it works. If that works for you, give it a try. I recommend it as a good, light scifi read.	2002-08-11
US	51624230	R2RY9TCETXHV3V	0312978340	931377968	The Skull Mantra (Inspector Shan Tao Yun)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Works On Several Levels	THE SKULL MANTRA is an impressive first fictional effort by Eliot Pattison. Perhaps the most impressive thing about it is how well it works in a variety of ways. It's a good mystery. It's populated with characters who are believable and who grow as a result of their experiences in the story. It also paints a vivid picture of life in modern Tibet, showing how the Tibetan people have tried to preserve their cultural identity in the face of Chinese domination and brutality. Finally, there are the Chinese themselves, brutalized by their own cruelty and always vulnerable to the political manuevering inherent a system run on the basis of personal whim rather than law.<br />The mystery is an engaging one, triggered by the bizarre find of a headless corpse under a pile of stones near the worksite of the People's 404th Brigade. The 404th is a forced-labor gang made up mostly of Tibetan monks, but also including former Beijing prosecutor Shan Tao Yung. The case takes a more bizarre twist when the local commandant, Colonel Tan, picks Shan to conduct the investigation because the local prosecutor is away on vacation. Then the body turns out to be that of the supposedly vacationing prosecutor. Colonel Tan wants the case resolved quickly, and a local monk is soon implicated, but Shan isn't satisfied.<br />Beyond the engaging mystery, this book has a lot to say about the evils of Chinese rule in Tibet. I would be one of the last people to argue against the need for relatively backward societies to come to grips with the modern world as we enter the 21st century, but modernization doesn't begin to justify the attempt to forcefully eradicate a foreign culture at whatever human cost that pursued by China in Tibet. The leadership of China, both past and present, have much to answer for.<br />THE SKULL MANTRA is an excellent book. It's not the greatest mystery I've ever read, but it is pretty good in that department. Beyond that, however, it has the power to both entertain AND enlighten. That's a powerful combination. I recommend this book highly. It's an experience most readers won't quickly forget. I only hope Pattison's next book is as good.n. That's a powerful combination. I recommend this book highly. It's an experience most readers won't quickly forget. I only hope Pattison's next book is as good.	2002-08-02
US	51624230	R175ON540XACRC	0812575857	792964844	Starfish (Rifters Trilogy)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Scifi With Depth	I confess that, based of the cover description, I was expecting some sort of deep-sea adventure populated by weird creatures and who knows what else. That's not what this is. Instead, it is a two-part tale populated by weird human creatures \\"modified\\" to live in a deep-sea environment so they can monitor geothermal power plants built on the San Juan de Fuca Rift. Forget all the documentaries you've seen showing strange, glowing deep-sea creatures. They're here, but they're mentioned only in passing and play almost no role in the story.<br />The first part of this tale focuses on the \\"misfit\\" crew that has been \\"modified\\" to live in the depths of the ocean. Lenie Clarke is the de facto crew leader, but she is as troubled as the rest. There is plenty of tension here but not much real action. Psychological tension builds, however. As time goes on, these people become stranger and stranger as they adapt to their environment and each other in unanticipated ways.<br />The second part of the story exposes what is going on above the surface. Here, the reader discovers the hidden agendas that drive the experiment in human adaptation going on at the ocean floor, as well as the unforeseen threat that has changed everything, making the crew itself a danger that must be either contained or destroyed.<br />This is an interesting tale, full of novel ideas and off-beat characters. But, despite the different environment, the humans and their creations are the strangest creatures here. And the most dangerous. If you're looking for fast-paced adventure, this isn't it. But if you want scifi with some \\"depth\\", something thought-provoking, STARFISH might do the trick for you. It wasn't the most fun I've ever had reading scifi, but it was better than average. Give it a try.	2002-07-21
US	51624230	R2CZIDAT2MP39S	0312955006	396820452	The Concrete Blonde (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Another Great Harry Bosch Story	THE CONCRETE BLONDE is the third tale in Michael Connelley's Harry Bosch series. Four years ago, Harry shot and killed the man he believed was an L.A. serial killer nicknamed \\"The Dollmaker\\". Now, the man's widow and her high-powered lawyer are suing Harry and the LAPD for wrongful death. Just as the case opens in court, a new murder victim with all the characteristics of a \\"Dollmaker\\" kill turns up embedded in concrete. The location of the body has been tipped off by a note and the body is definitely not four years old. Did Harry shoot the wrong man?<br />This is another great story by Connelly. It's a page-turner and keeps you guessing right to the end. If gritty, contemporary mysteries are your forte, you've got to read this. In fact, I recommend it highly to anyone who isn't put off by the graphic realism of the details. Connelly has proved himself as a first-rate writer in this genre. His books are top-notch and this one is no exception. Buy a copy and get comfortable, because you won't want to put it down.	2002-07-05
US	51624230	R3KFT1AL245PP4	0812535162	253944679	Strange Attractors: Volume Two of the 'The Chaos Chronicles'	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A Step Up	STRANGE ATTRACTORS is the second book in Carver's \\"Chaos Chronicles\\" series. I was rather ambivalent after reading the first installment (NEPTUNE CROSSING). There were aspects of it I liked and other aspects I wasn't especially happy with. STRANGE ATTRACTORS, however, was better. I felt it was a solid step up from NEPTUNE... and I enjoyed it much more.<br />To be sure, there are still problems. The \\"boojum\\" is a rather vague entity, the characters remain underdeveloped, and I've gotten a little weary of the quarx dying and then resurrecting itself with no memory of past events. A couple of times is one thing, but after four or five generations of Charlie it's gotten a little old.<br />For space opera, though, this is fairly good stuff. Intriguing new worlds (or, at least, environments) are explored and you never know what will turn up around the next corner. There's a fair amount of action and some interesting aliens. It wasn't deep, but it was fun and it held my interest. If good space opera is what you want, give this one a try.	2002-06-03
US	51624230	R3NT3DFT0M42X	0812535162	253944679	Strange Attractors: Volume Two of the 'The Chaos Chronicles'	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	A Step Up	STRANGE ATTRACTORS is the second book in Carver's \\"Chaos Chronicles\\" series. I was rather ambivalent after reading the first installment (NEPTUNE CROSSING). There are aspects of it I liked and other aspects I wasn't especially happy with. STRANGE ATTRACTORS, however, was better. I feel it is a solid step up from NEPTUNE... and I enjoyed it considerably more.<br />To be sure, there are still problems. The \\"boojum\\" is a rather vague entity, the characters remain underdeveloped, and I'm getting a little weary of the quarx dying and then resurrecting himself with no memory of past events. A couple of times is one thing, but after four or five generations of Charlie it's getting a little old.<br />For space opera, though, this is fairly good stuff. Intriguing new worlds (or, at least, environments) are explored and you never know what will turn up around the next corner. There's a fair amount of action and some interesting aliens. It wasn't deep, but it was fun and it held my interest. If good space opera is what you want, give this series a try.	2002-06-03
US	51624230	R13EJ42AXS0EMO	051512558X	453276093	The Overseer	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Something Lacking	On the surface of it, Rabb's OVERSEER seems to have what it takes to be a very good read. The premise seems interesting, featuring a cabal of well-placed individuals following the theory of a renaissance scholar in a bid to achieve absolute  power. That copies of the scholar's document are scarce and the theory little known gives the story a bit of an Indiana Jones feel. Also, the characters have some depth to them.<br />Despite all the promise, though, this book disappointed me. It took me more than a month to slog through it and I just never really got into it. There was never the feeling that I couldn't wait to see what was going to happen next. And I'm not sure why. Perhaps the problem was that I found the plot rather predictable. Perhaps it was one of the main characters, Sarah Trent. There were issues from her past affecting the events in the story and her response to them, but they were only dribbled out a bit at a time. I never felt that these connections were made entirely clear and, as a result Trent's hesitancy became a little tedious.<br />Whatever the problem, THE OVERSEER was something of a letdown for me. Others here have liked it, but I struggled to get through it. The characters and situations simply never became compelling for me. I can't give it an enthusiastic recommendation. There are more intriguing books to be had out there.	2002-05-29
US	51624230	R25OJT6WF7ZZYS	0425161242	528653838	Chromosome 6	Books	3	31	32	N	N	Not The Best Cookbook I've Read	Robin Cook, doctor turned writer, has produced a bundle of popular books in the \\"medical thriller\\" genre. I've read most of them, so it is fair to say that I generally enjoy Dr. Cook's work. His medical knowledge and use of topical ideas from the health care field make his tales intriguing, and they are always fast-paced. Unfortunately, character development is not a priority, and Cook's plots have tended to become increasingly predictable and far-fetched.<br />CHROMOSOME 6 is an improvement over some of Dr. Cook's other recent books. He divides the action between the U.S. and an African research facility, and he raises some genuine concerns  with regard to cloning and bio-engineering. Also, he brings back a likeable protagonist (Dr. Laurie Montgomery) from a previous book. The action is non-stop, so boredom isn't a problem.<br />On the downside, though, Cook's plots have become very predictable. There is plenty of action but few surprises. Characterization also remains a problem. Besides the general lack of depth, Cook's mafiosi are so stereotypical that they're more laughable than sinister, and the behavior of the two main female characters at the African site in the face of mercenary troops and flying bullets is totally unbelievable. Finally, as several other reviewers here have mentioned, the story ends quite abruptly, as though the author suddenly ran out of space.<br />CHROMOSOME 6 isn't, IMO, Robin Cook's weakest book (I'll leave that honor to INVASION), but it's a long way from being one of his best. Unless you're a diehard fan, I'd advise that you skip this one. There are lots of better books out there, including several of Cook's earlier efforts.	2002-05-27
US	51624230	RQQ28LSJKTXDG	0912333049	255776173	Are You Being Served?: The Inside Story of Britain's Funniest--And Public Television's Favorite--Comedy Series	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A Fine Companion To The TV Series	If, like me, you enjoy watching the AYBS episodes, you'll get plenty of use and enjoyment out of this book. You get stories and anecdotes about the show, from how the original idea was developed to how the episodes were taped to brief biographical sketches of the leading actors in the show. Best of all, there is a complete list of the episodes in chronological order, with a brief description of the plot, a list of the players, and a  rating (4 stars is &quot;super&quot;, 1 star is &quot;not up to scratch&quot;). The book even has an AYBS trivia quiz and a glossary of British expressions that might not be familiar to U.S. viewers. In short, this book gives fans just about all they could want short of more episodes, and all accompanied by lots of pictures.<br />My only criticism is that biographies are lacking for some of the less familiar players: James Hayter (Mr. Tebbs), Milo Sperber (Mr. Grossman), Bennie Lee (Mr. Klein), Candy Davis (Miss Belfridge), Doremy Vernon (Canteen Manageress), and others. This is a very minor complaint, however. The fact is, if you watch this show, either on PBS or on your own videos or DVD, this book will add to the fun. No fan should be without it.	2002-05-25
US	51624230	R19IWCB45GE0UV	0446405345	713349653	The Raven in the Foregate (Chronicles of Brother Cadfael)	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	Another Pleasant Tale	\\"Pleasant\\" is a good way to describe the Cadfael mysteries by Ellis Peters. These romanticised renderings of life in twelfth century England, however unreal, make the era seem pleasant enough that you almost want to live there. The countryside is lovely, there is usually a hint of romance in the air, and life moves at a measured, unrushed pace. No pavement, no pollution, no hustle and bustle. Seldom mentioned are the poverty, hunger, disease, and general stench (people rarely bathed). Life, especially in the cloister, is a bucolic idyll.<br />In \\"A Raven In The Foregate\\", Abbot Radulfus returns from a church council with a new priest for the Foregate. Father Adam having recently died, Radulfus brings back Father Ailnoth at the recommendation of Bishop Henry. Ailnoth, however, turns out to be a harsh and stiff-necked young priest and manages to alienate his flock before turning up dead on Christmas morning. There are plenty of suspects, not the least of whom is young Benet, nephew of Ailnoth's housekeeper.<br />With plenty of potential suspects, this would seem to be an intricate and challenging mystery, but ultimately the plot is not as involved as one might wish. The outcome is a happy one, if a bit too neat and satisfactory for everyone involved, but not too hard to see coming.<br />Like most of the books in this series, \\"A Raven In The Foregate\\" is only an average mystery. What makes this and the other Cadfael tales enjoyable is the pleasant world Peters creates and the idyllic, unhurried way in which she tells the tale. These are nice books to read and, on the strength of that I recommend them, especially to those who like a bit of history and romance along with their whodunits.	2002-02-02
US	51624230	R3T5RPV2H3TWEW	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	What Can I Say?	As I write this, there are already over five hundred reviews of this book in ahead of me, so there would not seem to be much I can write about it that hasn't already been written. Given these circumstances, I'll cut right to the chase. This is a terrific book, and it is apparently just the first of six that will make up the entire \\"Fire And Ice\\" series.<br />Tolkien is the standard by which I measure adult fantasy and, while my experience in this genre is limited, \\"A Game Of Thrones\\" is the most compelling and well-conceived tale I've found since Tolkien (and I liked Kay's \\"Tigana\\" and Brooks' Shannara books very much). It lacks Tolkien's deft touch of humor, but the plotting is intricate and multi-faceted and the characters have real depth, with elements of both good and bad in their personalities. Some are at once likeable but on the wrong side, and vice versa. Further, the \\"good guys\\" in this story are just as much at risk as the \\"bad guys\\". Death can strike down anyone, and it sometimes does so with stunning suddenness.<br />The plotting is truly fascinating. Most immediately, the political and personal intrigue within the seven kingdoms is fast-moving and treacherous. But, beyond that, there is the Princess Daenerys, the last suviving member of the previous ruling house of the Seven Kingdoms, who dreams of returning from exile and reclaiming the throne for herself. Lurking beyond even that, however, is the ominous threat that \\"winter is coming\\". The great northern ice wall separates the Seven Kingdoms from a vague danger that is, as yet, only hinted at but which seems to be perhaps the greatest danger of all.<br />This is great storytelling. A real page-turner. There's never a dull moment and, as a reader, I was always anxious to see what was going to happen next. I have the next book (#2), but book #3 doesn't come out in paperback for a couple of months and the remaining books in the series are farther down the line. I'm resisting the urge to plunge right into #2 for this reason, but I guarantee that I won't wait very long. Read this book. You'll be looking forward to more, too.#2 for this reason, but I guarantee that I won't wait very long. Read this book. You'll be looking forward to more, too.	2002-01-29
US	51624230	RJIG17EO7E8PJ	038081093X	604551094	Excavation	Books	4	10	12	N	Y	Indiana Jones Meets Andromeda Strain	&quot;Excavation&quot; starts out on an archeological dig in the Peruvian Andes. We get underground tunnels and a sealed door, cave-ins, would-be tomb robbers, mummified bodies, and ancient booby-traps. All fast-paced, entertaining and fairly plausible. From there on, this tale becomes increasingly fantastic until it all gets a bit hard to swallow. If you can suspend your disbelief enough to accept the last quarter of the book, though, it continues to be fast-paced and entertaining. Until the last half-dozen pages or so. At that point Rollins gets downright maudlin in his efforts to wrap up the romantic entanglements. Then comes the epilogue, which wraps up some loose ends with and definitely scifi explanation and leaves lots of room for sequels.<br />As I said, &quot;Excavation&quot; gets pretty fantastic before its over, but I suppose it's no more difficult to accept that most scifi I've read. It was fun and the action never let up. Its all very  shallow, there are no deep concepts being explored here, but scifi fans and those who enjoy the kind of techno-thrillers by writers like Crichton (although it isn't quite as polished as Crichton's work) will like this book, as well.	2001-12-31
US	51624230	R2QKZWUUS6CB6O	0441328091	178447398	The Hero and the Crown	Books	3	32	39	N	Y	A Struggle	My daughter and I struggled through this book. I write this not to imply that it is a bad book. The story is a good one and it is very well written, but it strikes me as a story written for young people but in a very adult style. Technically, Ms. McKinley is a very proficient writer, but she uses lots of long, complex sentences that can even be difficult for an adult with above-average reading skills to wade through. My nearly eleven-year-old daughter was frequently lost. Beyond that, the book takes place very much on an emotional, impressionistic, sometimes surreal plane. There are only three action sequences in the entire book: the battle with the great dragon, the battle with the evil northern lord, and the battle before the gates of Damar's capitol city. Each of these is vivid, but brief. For example, Aerin, our heroine, spends more time climbing the stairs of the tower to find the evil Lord Agsded than she does actually fighting him. Her feelings and thoughts as she climbs the stairs are explored at length, but it all culminates in a brief and anti-climactic confrontation.<br />I'm sure there are young readers out there who love this book. Some of the other reviews here bear witness to that. I think, however, that these are exceptional young readers. The average kid will have a difficult time. The 9 to 12 year-old who takes on this book will need to be both a very good reader and a very patient one. My daughter frequently found other things she preferred to do when it came time to sit down and read &quot;The Hero And The Crown&quot;. For that reason, we've held our rating on it to just three stars.	2001-12-30
US	51624230	RIZN5I0UQQWWA	0061056391	275631839	Foundation's Triumph (Second Foundation Trilogy)	Books	2	8	17	N	N	Misguided	It's been many years since I read Asimov's original \\"Foundation\\" trilogy. As I remeber it, he takes the fall of Rome along with the ensuing dark ages and renaissance and gives it a futuristic and galactic spin. To make things interesting he adds Hari Seldon, psychohistory, and the Foundations. The sheer notion of a mathematical model that can accurately predict the future is nonsense. It's impossible to anticipate the appearance and impact of a Caesar or a Lincoln or a Hitler on the course of events. Nevertheless, psychohistory works in the original Foundation context. The original trilogy was a good read and is among the best sci fi around.<br />Later in his life, Asimov wrote several books that linked characters and events from his robot books to the Foundation series. This was, at best, a rather questionable idea. It took the role of robots and expanded it to completely outrageous proportions.<br />Now, we have the Second Foundation trilogy from Benford, Bear and Brin, and things have gotten totally out of control. Technological advances aside, imagine having a robot for a wife. I don't think so. Imagine computer simulations of historical personalities that escape and take on an intergalactic life of their own. I don't think so.<br />In this vein, Brin's book goes much farther than the previous two. Once Asimov's revered genius, Brin puts Hari into the role of the ultimate pawn. Robots now dispute the fate of humanity without bothering to consider what humans might want, and then use Hari to carry out their plans. And Hari goes along, even when he realizes he's being manipulated. R. Daneel Olivaw is now the ultimate villain, ruthlessly doing whatever it takes to impose his \\"ultimate solution\\" on the universe. Genocide, the deliberate destruction of the Galactic Empire, suppression of human knowledge and creativity, it's all here. The destruction of a vast accumulation of human historical records are reminiscent of the book burning indulged in by Hitler's Nazis. R. Daneel thinks nothing of wiping the memory of anybody who threatens his grand scheme. It's all very \\"logical\\" in a sense, but totally unthinkable.<br />One absurd scene features Dors, a \\"female\\" robot, and Lodovic, a \\"male\\" robot, heading off toward Trantor in a space vehicle together. They maintain their \\"human\\" sub-routines (out of habit. Can robots have habits? Silly.) and the writing clearly implies that \\"feelings\\" are at work here. They talk, rather than communicate via microwave. They simulate expressions and emotional responses though these are clearly not called for. There are no humans on board. One can only imagine a sequel in which we are treated to robot love-making, with a little mechanical sperm cell fertilizing a little metallic ovum, leading to the birth of a little robot infant. Ridiculous.<br />This may be one robot's utopian dream, but it comes across as my worst nightmare. I won't tell you what happens at the end, but I will tell you what doesn't. Nobody smashes R. Daneel into a pile of little metal fragments. That, however, is exactly what should have happened. As it is, the book has lots of maneuvering, and every time the plot gets a new complication, it gets a new robotic sect as the cause, but there is little real action and the ending is completely unsatisfying. Brin ties up lots of loose ends, but he leaves lots of others. Open door for further sequels? I hope not! This story is a perversion of the original \\"Foundation\\" trilogy. The only reason I have given it two stars is because the writing is technically competent. It's clear from some of the other reviews here that some people liked this series in general, and Brin's finale in particular, but I didn't. I recommend that if you haven't read this already, don't.. Daneel thinks nothing of wiping the memory of anybody who threatens his grand scheme. It's all very \\"logical\\" in a sense, but totally unthinkable.<br />One absurd scene features Dors, a \\"female\\" robot, and Lodovic, a \\"male\\" robot, heading off toward Trantor in a space vehicle together. They maintain their \\"human\\" sub-routines (out of habit. Can robots have habits? Silly.) and the writing clearly implies that \\"feelings\\" are at work here. They talk, rather than communicate via microwave. They simulate expressions and emotional responses though these are clearly not called for. There are no humans on board. One can only imagine a sequel in which we are treated to robot love-making, with a little mechanical sperm cell fertilizing a little metallic ovum, leading to the birth of a little robot infant. Ridiculous.<br />This may be one robot's utopian dream, but it comes across as my worst nightmare. I won't tell you what happens at the end, but I will tell you what doesn't. Nobody smashes R. Daneel into a pile of little metal fragments. That, however, is exactly what should have happened. As it is, the book has lots of maneuvering, and every time the plot gets a new complication, it gets a new robotic sect as the cause, but there is little real action and the ending is completely unsatisfying. Brin ties up lots of loose ends, but he leaves lots of others. Open door for further sequels? I hope not! This story is a perversion of the original \\"Foundation\\" trilogy. The only reason I have given it two stars is because the writing is technically competent. It's clear from some of the other reviews here that some people liked this series in general, and Brin's finale in particular, but I didn't. I recommend that if you haven't read this already, don't.	2001-12-17
US	51624230	R3GPWTJE1NTW4N	0380733390	153349526	Borrower of the Night: The First Vicky Bliss Mystery	Books	4	47	50	N	Y	Shallow Characters Hold Back An Intriguing Tale	&quot;Borrower Of The Night&quot; is the first book by Elizabeth Peters that I've read. It was my understanding that Ms. Peters books have been quite popular, so I expected an entertaining and fast-paced story. Happily, that is exactly what I got. The story finds university historian Vicki Bliss and her colleague, Tony, trying to track down a lost piece of German art, the last work of a master wood carver who died in the 16th century. Most of the story takes place in a medieval castle in a small German town, complete with a mysterious late-night spectre, secret passageways, and a bloody history reaching clear back to the time when the missing carving was created.<br />There is a nice amount of authentic history worked in to this tale, and the narrative is easy to read and flows along at a satisfying pace. The main drawback is the rather shallow main characters. This story, along with being a mystery, has a romantic aspect. Unfortunately, and the boy/girl relationships were juvenile. For supposed university scholars, the dialogue between Vicki and Tony sounds like something you might hear at a junior high school. Nor can Vicki resist making childish, catty observatiions about Irma, the scion of the noble family that owns the castle.<br />Despite the childishness of the relationships in this book, it was, overall, fun to read. The mystery, with its historical aspect, was intriguing and held my interest. Overall, this is an amusing, light story and I recommend it on that basis. I will probably be reading more of Ms. Peters' tales in the future. On the other hand, if you're looking for more depth (adult dialogue and mature relationships), you will want to look elsewhere.	2001-12-09
US	51624230	R22HO5RGGS3A6W	0812566629	212689501	Darwinia: A Novel of a Very Different Twentieth Century	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Unusual	&quot;Darwinia&quot; is one of the most unusual books I have read. It starts out in 1912 with the complete and mysterious disappearance of Europe and the British Isles. In place of the Old Europe is a new Europe which is shaped similarly but which is unpopulated by humans and contains an alien flora and fauna. Guilford Law is a boy when this event takes place and is fascinated by it. By 1922, the US is in the throes of a religious revival, the world is in an economic depression, and what to do with the &quot;new&quot; Europe is a subject of politcal controversy. Law, now a young man, joins an expedition to explore the interior of the new continent, leaving his wife and daughter in &quot;New&quot; London. What follows is a pretty good adventure as Law and his companions trek through the alien wilderness while his wife stumbles into a relationship with a soldier in &quot;New&quot; London.<br />Suddenly, about a third of the way through, the scene shifts and the reader is confronted with a galaxy &quot;collapsed into its own singularity&quot; where &quot;noospheres&quot; meet &quot;in million-year cycles to exchange knowledge and to create hybrid offspring, metacultures embedded in infant noospheres dense as neutron stars.&quot; The upshot of this is that all sentient history/experiece has been accumulated into an &quot;Archive&quot; of incomprehensible magnitude. The purpose of the Archive is to preserve all knowledge, but it is under attack from what can perhaps best be described as computer viruses blindly attempting to alter or destroy the stored data. Much of this aspect of the story is dense and obscure.<br />Subsequent to this revelation, the story changes dramatically, taking on a bizarre nature. Law meets his alter ego, who actually died in France in WW I on the original earth. This alter ego tries to enlist Law in the &quot;war&quot; against the &quot;evil&quot; virus entities.<br />This is a very odd story. The latter part is much different from the first part, and the connection between Earth and the Archive, as well as the nature of the Archive and the war going on in it, are never adequately explained. Indeed, much of the story struck me as very dark, and it reads like a horror story. It was relatively fast-paced and I got through it pretty quickly, but I was less than satisfied with where it had taken me by the time I got to the end. I can't honestly recommend it to other readers, even though some parts were entertaining enough. I'm sure some folks will like it, but proceed at your own risk.rt, and the connection between Earth and the Archive, as well as the nature of the Archive and the war going on in it, are never adequately explained. Indeed, much of the story struck me as very dark, and it reads like a horror story. It was relatively fast-paced and I got through it pretty quickly, but I was less than satisfied with where it had taken me by the time I got to the end. I can't honestly recommend it to other readers, even though some parts were entertaining enough. I'm sure some folks will like it, but proceed at your own risk.	2001-12-09
US	51624230	RV2E9GVXFLVHF	0140442952	304207464	A History of the Franks (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	27	30	N	N	Not For Everyone	The chronicles of Bishop Gregory of Tours are a rich piece of source material from a time and place whence such material is scarce. He seems to know all that was going on and he doesn't hesitate to tell it all. The political and social chaos left in the wake of the collapse of Rome's secular authority in the west is described in a vivid and readable style. Petty chieftains ruled over their local territories with little restraint, often  inflicting cruel fates on those who crossed their paths. Order was precarious. Life was dangerous and often cut short arbitrarily. In the midst of all this upheaval, Gregory shines forth like a sixth century gossip columnist.<br />What I found most intriguing in Gregory's account is the way that the local Roman aristocracy used the structure of the church to maintain whatever degree of order and restraint they could manage. Gregory doesn't make this point explicitly, but it is clear from his account of events and people. Bishops routinely came from families of senatorial rank, and were often men who had already raised families themselves. By holding positions as abbots, bishops, etc., the remnants of the old order were able to exert influence over the barbarian chiefs who now controlled secular life, encouraging moderation and the rule of law over personal whim. They were also able to maintain a certain degree of moral and, in a limited sense, secular authority for Rome. Though imperial authority was gone, the bishops of Rome were able to step into the void in a limited way. The modern Popes can be seen as direct descendants of the Caesars in an institutional sense.<br />Despite his gossipy style, Gregory isn't for everyone. He clearly doesn't have the formal training of the classical Roman historians. His narrative is not only gossipy, but somewhat jumbled. The familiarity is pleasant, but the cascade of names and events can be quite difficult. For the historian, or the reader with a serious interest in this period, this is a treasure trove of information, but the casual reader may  struggle to keep it all straight. If that happens, Gregory's &quot;History&quot; can become more work than pleasure.re trove of information, but the casual reader may  struggle to keep it all straight. If that happens, Gregory's &quot;History&quot; can become more work than pleasure.	2001-11-25
US	51624230	R3C81SX2OFEEGK	080500243X	653244595	Black Widower: An Inspector Henry Tibbett Mystery	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	Unfortunately Obscure	There is an entire school of English lady mystery writers, of which Agatha Christie is the best known and most outstanding, but certainly not the only one worthy of note. Some have achieved considerable popularity of their own, others are less known. Among the latter are such names as Catherine Aird, Patricia Wentworth, Margery Allingham and Patricia Moyes. Each of these ladies has produced a nice collection of entertaining mysteries set mostly in classic English settings and written in a very readable style. Wentworth's Miss Silver, in particular, is a personal favorite and a worthy rival to Christie's Miss Marple. Unfortunately, most of the books written by these ladies are relatively unknown, out of print and hard to find.<br />Patricia Moyes' chief characters are Scotland Yard Inspector Henry Tibbett and his perceptive wife, Emmy. In BLACK WIDOWER, Sir Edward Ironmonger is the ambassador to the United States from the newly independent island nation of Tampica. The death of his beautiful and temperamental wife on the eve of sensitive negotiations with the US over its Tampican naval base creates a difficult situation. Tampica has nobody qualified to conduct the investigation, but the government wishes to keep US authorities from becoming involved. Because the Tampican embassy is technically Tampican territory, even though it is located in Georgetown near Washington DC, the government exercises its sovereignty and calls in Scotland Yard's Tibbett.<br />This is a very competent, well-plotted mystery. It keeps you guessing right up to the end, the Tibbetts are enjoyable characters, especially if you've met them before, and the writing is smooth and easy to read. Most fans of English &quot;country house&quot; mysteries will find this tale fun to read. The problem, as I noted earlier, is finding a copy of this, or any of Moyes' other books. BLACK WIDOWER is the fourth book by Moyes I've read, and I've enjoyed them all, but they are increasingly hard to find and, unless they are re-printed, it may be quite a while before I read another. If you do run across one of her books, give it a try.they are re-printed, it may be quite a while before I read another. If you do run across one of her books, give it a try.	2001-11-09
US	51624230	R394UZ7S98LREW	0812550234	622239218	Primary Inversion (The Saga of the Skolian Empire)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Good First Effort	PRIMARY INVERSION is apparently the first scifi novel by Asaro. For a first try, it is pretty good, despite some shortcomings. She clearly is well-grounded in science, and the hard scifi aspect of her writing is intriguing and well thought out. The plot of the story held my interest (though I wouldn't quite describe it as a page-turner)and the main characters have enough depth to make you care what happens to them. On the other hand, Asaro's political set-up is, at best, fuzzy. The Skolian dynasty is &quot;decrepit&quot; and there is some sort or elected body, but once you get into the story Primary Valdoria's half-brother seems to rule in a very absolute sense. Further, way too much of this story revolves around special mental powers. The advanced inter-personal links that might flow from nanotechnology and computer implants aren't enough. There have to be special psychic powers as well, and these powers constitute the main difference between the rival Skolian and Trader empires. The special powers should have been left out, in my opinion. The sadism of the Trader ruling class could easily have had other sources. The &quot;Rhon&quot; versus &quot;Aristo&quot; business was, in its genetic origins, obscure and confusing. Finally, most of the action (which is well written, by the way) takes place in the first part of the book. More action in the latter part of the story would have been a plus.<br />Although PRIMARY INVERSION has its weaknesses, it was engaging enough to hold my interst throughout. For a first effort, it was promising. I will probably be reading more of Ms. Asaro's books. I think most scifi fans will find this an entertaining read.	2001-10-31
US	51624230	RDX3BWHT4SP7S	0440217490	233998989	A Dangerous Fortune	Books	4	109	117	N	Y	Very Entertaining	In my opinion, Ken Follett is one of the better writers working currently, and A DANGEROUS FORTUNE is one of his best books to date. I liked his EYE OF THE NEEDLE and PILLARS OF THE EARTH very much, too, and while I don't think FORTUNE is quite that good, it is still one of the most entertaining books I've read recently. The story is set in England in the latter half of the 19th century, and revolves around the wealthy Pilaster family. The Pilasters are bankers and control the large and powerful Pilaster Bank. As schoolboys, both Edward Pilaster and his cousin Hugh, son of the family black sheep, are involved in the death by drowning of a fellow student. That event is the beginning of 25 years of intrigue, corruption and murder as the fortunes of the Pilasters and those close to them play out. Follett weaves an intricate and fast-paced, if not always surprising, plot around his characters that carries the reader from the mansions of London's rich and powerful, through seedy bordellos, to vile gambling dens.<br />This is contemporary pulp fiction at its best. The characters have depth and believability and Follett seems to do a good job of evoking the look and feel of the period. The pages roll by quickly and the book is hard to put down. But, if it's so good, why didn't I give it five stars? Generally, I reserve five-star status for books of what I regard to be classic status. Caesar, Tolkien, Sherlock Holmes, Harry Potter (yeah, I do think Harry Potter will be around for a long time). Maybe Harry Bosch, although I may have gotten carried away, there. This is, after all, pulp fiction and it just doesn't have the depth of the above. It is very entertaining, though, and I think most readers will enjoy it very much. Consider it a strong four plus and give it a look.	2001-10-24
US	51624230	R31Y0AO4BITV0R	0380802090	78863271	Hunted (League of Peoples, Bk. 4)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Hunted??? More Like Manipulated	For egomaniac Admiral Alexander York, having regular children just isn't good enough. Although such tampering is illegal in the Technocracy, York has his unborn children genetically altered. The result: Samantha is blond, beautiful, athletic and brilliant. When she is grown, she becomes ambassador to the Mandasar on the planet Troyen. Edward is also blond, handsome and athletic, but he is slow mentally. Slower than normal. An embarrassment to his father, Edward is kept out of sight until the Admiral is able to get him commissioned in the &quot;Expendables&quot; and assigned to Sam as her bodyguard. In this position, he can be kept under Sam's supervision. But, when civil war breaks out on Troyen, Sam and the Mandasar hive-queen are killed. All humans are immediately evacuated. Edward finds himself manning a lonely observation outpost on a barren moon in the Troyen system for the next twenty years. Then things start to get interesting...<br />HUNTED is set in the same universe as Gardner's earlier books. I read the first of these, EXPENDABLE, several years ago. I thought it was OK, but not entertaining enough to look for its follow-ups. Recently, however, HUNTED caught my eye and I decided to give it a try. I'm glad I did. The story is fun and well-paced, with plenty of action and lots of twists and turns. The characters are an intriguing bunch, including the likable Edward and, from previous &quot;expendables&quot; tales, Festina Ramos and Phylar Tobit. Edward, who is not as dumb as most people think, handles the trials and tribulations that come his way with an engaging degree of acceptance and humor. He isn't &quot;hunted&quot; much, though. He's manipulated endlessly, but he spends only a brief time early in the book &quot;on the run&quot;. The Mandasars and other aliens are interesting, and one of the regrets I felt about this story is that they weren't developed more. The &quot;bad guys&quot; are perhaps too unrelentingly evil and uncomplicated, but the story doesn't dwell much on them, either. This IS &quot;space opera&quot; after all, not high literature. As &quot;space opera&quot;, it works well enough.<br />I've never been a big fan of sci-fi that relies on special psych powers, either among humans or aliens. It always strikes me as a cop-out when it becomes the &quot;out&quot; from the complications posed in the plot of a story. There is an element of that in HUNTED, but it doesn't intrude until the very end. I would have liked the story better without it, but it isn't a major distraction.<br />I liked this book. It wasn't deep, but it didn't profess to be. It was fun and never got boring. A little predictable? Maybe, but the complications kept coming fast enough to raise new questions. I recommend it to fans of this genre. It is one of the best books of this type I've read in recent years.oesn't dwell much on them, either. This IS &quot;space opera&quot; after all, not high literature. As &quot;space opera&quot;, it works well enough.<br />I've never been a big fan of sci-fi that relies on special psych powers, either among humans or aliens. It always strikes me as a cop-out when it becomes the &quot;out&quot; from the complications posed in the plot of a story. There is an element of that in HUNTED, but it doesn't intrude until the very end. I would have liked the story better without it, but it isn't a major distraction.<br />I liked this book. It wasn't deep, but it didn't profess to be. It was fun and never got boring. A little predictable? Maybe, but the complications kept coming fast enough to raise new questions. I recommend it to fans of this genre. It is one of the best books of this type I've read in recent years.	2001-10-04
US	51624230	R17TAV5ZOIFY2J	0446603287	566374548	A Wild and Lonely Place (Sharon McCone Mysteries)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	And The Saga Continues...	&quot;A Wild And Lonely Place&quot; is the sixteenth installment in the on-going adventures of private investigator Sharon McCone. Like many series, the books revolve as much around the personal life of the main character as they do about the immediate plot line. Here, we find Ms. McCone moving further away from the All Souls Legal Co-op and building up a separate coterie of friends. Hank and Anne-Marie play a small role, but All Souls is otherwise almost irrelevant, superceded by newer faces Hy Ripinsky (her current boyfriend and probably her most serious relationship to date), nephew Mick, Adah Joslyn, and Gage Renshaw. Fans of the series derive as much entertainment from this as from the story.<br />The antagonist in this case is someone called the &quot;Diplo-bomber&quot;. This person has set off bombs at several different consulates around the U.S., and there is a million dollar reward on the table. In addition, the bomber seems to have a special interest in the San Francisco consulate of Azad, an oil-rich Arab emirate. The plot has its share of twists and turns, taking McCone to the Caribbean and back before everything gets sorted out. It's not the most unfathomable mystery ever, but it's good enough to hold your interest.<br />One unfortunate aspect of this story is the device used at the start. Muller lifts a tense moment from near the end of the book and uses it to start the story off. It IS a tense moment, and it is clearly intended to grab the interest of the reader and get things off to a fast start. Unfortunately, however, it gives away a lot about the direction the story will take. It gives away too much, in my opinion. The first two-thirds of the story would have been more engaging if I hadn't already been shown where things were going.<br />I've read all of the preceding books in this series, so it's fair to say that I enjoy them, generally. This one is neither the best nor the worst of them. If you're a fan, it will satisfy your desire for more. Otherwise, it's a so-so mystery. There are some tense moments, but it's not as puzzling as it might have been. The identity of the bomber was clear to me before I got to the end and it will be to many others, as well. Still, there's enough action to keep the pages turning right to the end. This is a good casual read, but will likely disappoint hard-core mystery lovers.erwise, it's a so-so mystery. There are some tense moments, but it's not as puzzling as it might have been. The identity of the bomber was clear to me before I got to the end and it will be to many others, as well. Still, there's enough action to keep the pages turning right to the end. This is a good casual read, but will likely disappoint hard-core mystery lovers.	2001-09-20
US	51624230	R3USWE922RATHU	0140442863	283765493	The Age of Alexander: Nine Greek Lives (Penguin Classics, L286)	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Some &quot;Lively&quot; Greek Biogs By Plutarch	Plutarch was a Greek scholar living in the Roman Empire. He was not a historian, per se, but rather a biographer who used the lives of famous Greeks and Romans to illustrate strengths and weaknesses of character, how they impacted events, and how events impacted them. He wrote his biographies in pairs, matching a Greek and Roman whose lives, in his view, exemplified common traits or themes. His pairings being generally rather superficial, Penguin has chosen to publish the individual &quot;Lives&quot; in chronological groupings. The nine presented in &quot;The Age Of Alexander&quot; include Plutarch's biography of Alexander the Great along with those of eight famous Greeks from the same period.<br />Writing during the reigns of Trajan and Hadrian, Plutarch was already dealing with people from hundreds of years in his past. Fortunately for us, as his writing shows, he still had a lot of evidence to draw on. Frequently mentioned are contemporary accounts and, in the case of Alexander, letters written by Alexander himself, which apparently still existed in Plututarch's time. Sometimes he cites more than one source in cases where accounts disagree. The richness of Plutarch's sources is valuable because so much of that ancient source material is now lost.<br />Plutarch is at his best in describing dramatic events and when commenting on the strengths and weaknesses of his subjects. As reading material, this book could hardly be called a &quot;page-turner&quot; in the contemporary sense of that term, but you don't have to be a student of history to appreciate the dramatic, and often violent, nature of the times and of the lives of the men covered in this collection. Only one of them died in bed. Life was often violent and short, and the violence was gratuitous. A man whose deeds were out of favor might well be treated to the sight of his family being executed before being dispatched himself.<br />Personally, I'm more a fan of Roman history than the Greeks (although Alexander is certainly a fascinating character), and the Greeks covered in this book are generally much less familiar to me than those of the Romans contained in other volumes. Nevertheless, this is classic literature of a high order. Plutarch is a great storyteller, and his insightful and anecdotal style is never dull. Further, his work is one of those rare examples of ancient writing and scholarship that have survived, and in that sense alone his &quot;Lives&quot; are a treasure. &quot;The Age Of Alexander&quot; isn't the easiest reading you'll find, but it is both interesting and rewarding. It's probably not everyone's cup of tea, but give it a try. You may just find it as enjoyable as I do.r is certainly a fascinating character), and the Greeks covered in this book are generally much less familiar to me than those of the Romans contained in other volumes. Nevertheless, this is classic literature of a high order. Plutarch is a great storyteller, and his insightful and anecdotal style is never dull. Further, his work is one of those rare examples of ancient writing and scholarship that have survived, and in that sense alone his &quot;Lives&quot; are a treasure. &quot;The Age Of Alexander&quot; isn't the easiest reading you'll find, but it is both interesting and rewarding. It's probably not everyone's cup of tea, but give it a try. You may just find it as enjoyable as I do.	2001-09-11
US	51624230	R20UDR7SNAY10Z	1584853085	671204774	Riddle of the Prairie Bride (American Girl History Mysteries)	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Intriguing Riddle	It's 1878. Ida Kate Deming and her father live on a farm on the Kansas prairie, several miles from the nearest town. Since the death of Ida Kate's mother, she has had to take on the household chores: cleaning, mending, cooking, etc. It's a big job for a young girl, and it doesn't leave enough time for Ida Kate to attend school or see her friends much. Small wonder, then, that Ida Kate is excitedly looking forward to the arrival of the mail-order bride that is coming from back east to marry her father. Trouble arrives with the new member of the family, however. Her hair is the wrong color, she's too short, she cooks too well and sings too well, she isn't allergic to the cat, and her handwriting is different from the handwriting in the letters they received. Who is this woman, really? What happened to the woman Ida Kate and her father were expecting?<br />While portraying the hardships of life on the frontier in the late 1800's, &quot;Riddle Of The Prairie Bride&quot; also gives kids an intriguing mystery to sink their teeth into. &quot;Formulaic&quot; it may be, but this is fine for kids. A plot with too many complications could be overwhelm a young reader. My ten-year-old daughter got quite caught up in this tale, and wanted to &quot;keep reading&quot; each evening until we finished it. Readers of other &quot;history mysteries&quot; will not be disappointed with this one. If you have never read one, give one a try.	2001-08-23
US	51624230	R1ZU4NS3P9QQVA	0312952813	152178043	The Black Ice (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	OK, I'm Convinced	A while back I read &quot;THE BLACK ECHO&quot;, Connelly's first Harry Bosch story. I liked it a lot, but held my rating to 4 stars. I didn't want to be too easy, after all. Well, now I've read Connelly's second tale, &quot;THE BLACK ICE&quot; and I'm convinced: this guy is good. &quot;THE BLACK ICE&quot; starts with the apparent suicide of a narc. Before long, though, Harry finds a connection between the death of the narc, Calexico Moore, and another case he is working on involving the murder of a drug runner. Then a connection turns up to another murder, that of an unidentified Mexican whose body was dumped behind a local diner. Coincidence? Harry doesn't think so. While the actual nature of Calexico Moore's death wasn't a huge surprise by the time I reached the end of the story, it was certainly an interesting ride getting there. This story has plenty of twists and turns in it, and even Harry becomes a target before it's all over. It's a page-turner from beginning to end. It's also believable, and the characters have depth and believability (except I do take issue with Harry's ability to go several days on virtually no sleep and still function effectively, but that is a small thing). Connelly isn't Doyle, and Harry Bosch isn't Sherlock Holmes, but if you like modern, gritty police procedurals then give Connelly's books a try. Keeping in mind that Holmes is 5+ star material, then this is about 4.7 star stuff. Good enough to round off at 5 stars. It was a page-turner for me and I recommend it.	2001-08-14
US	51624230	R19KNT6YKDCFDG	1584853107	953616990	The Minstrel's Melody (American Girl History Mysteries)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	More Adventure Than Mystery	Twelve-year-old Orphelia Bruce lives in Missouri in 1904. She's musically gifted and wants nothing so much as to play piano and sing. Orphelia's straight-laced mother wants Orphelia to confine her music to church. Madame Meritta, leader of a traveling minstrel show, is scheduled to conduct a talent show when she passes through Orphelia's town on her way to a performance at the St. Louis World's Fair. Acts from all over the county are coming to compete. The best act gets to be part of Madame's show at the Fair. But, when Orphelia gets into trouble, her mother won't allow her to take part in the talent show. Frustrated and angry, Orphelia runs away to join Madame Meritta's troupe. As events unfold, Orphelia learns some things about her family she didn't know. She also learns something about life on the road. Will Orphelia get to play in Madame Meritta's show? Will she get back to her family? Is the show business life as glamorous as Orphelia imagines? The answers to these questions and several others are in &quot;The Minstrel's Melody&quot;.<br />This &quot;history mystery&quot; is more about Orphelia's adventures on the road than it is a mystery. Still, some interesting questions are raised and answered in the course of this book. It also has the more general virtues of all the books in this series: it is a good snapshot of life in a historical time and place removed from the present day, it has some worthwhile things to say about life in general, and it features a good leading character that most kids will identify with.<br />We (my daughter and I) rate this, and the entire series, a solid four stars. If you look at our reviews of other books in this series, you may see five stars on them. We tried to change that after reasoning that, if the Harry Potter books rated five stars, then these (being not THAT good -- few others in this genre are) rated four, but we didn't succeed. With four stars, though, &quot;history mysteries&quot; are still good reading and we still recommend them. If you haven't read any, give 'em a try.recommend them. If you haven't read any, give 'em a try.	2001-08-11
US	51624230	R37LQLK7YU6V8P	0441006434	11987625	The Golden Globe (Eight Worlds)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not THAT Great -- Not Bad, Though	Looking at some of the other reviews of &quot;The Golden Globe&quot; here, it appears that most readers reacted either very positively or very negatively. I'm going to try to stake out some ground in the middle. I wouldn't characterize this book as &quot;great&quot; or a &quot;must read&quot;. I thought some aspects of the future solar system society, as depicted here, were laughable. For example, as the story opens, Kenneth &quot;Sparky&quot; Valentine is a sometime actor/sometime con man traveling the outer reaches of the solar system as part of a traveling acting troupe. When he flees this outfit, he has a difficult time getting away because of the expense of interplanetary travel. And it would be expensive. Several months of food alone would cost a small fortune. Under such circumstances, how would a third rate traveling theatrical troupe survive? They'd never make enough to pay their expenses.<br />That aspect aside, the first part of this book was slow. The lengthy flashbacks to Sparky's salad days were too lengthy. There was too little action. Nor did I need two or three hundred pages to get the idea of what John Valentine is like. The pseudo showbiz articles and reviews (especially the ones written in 23rd century valley-girlspeak) are especially tedious, and quickly become way too cutesy. Too many pages are spent on the showbiz aspect. Only when the Charonese Mafia appears do things get really interesting, and even they are just too nasty and relentless to be believable. On the other hand, I thought Sparky and the other principal characters were well conceived and believable. Sparky's wit and patter were enjoyable. Best of all, the last 150 or 200 pages got  much more engaging. The main storyline is intriguing enough, and after slogging through the first two thirds, the final third of the book (when things got down to business) went by quickly.<br />The bottom line on &quot;The Golden Globe&quot;? I ended up more satisfied with it than I expected, but it is longer than it should be and it has some other shortcomings. Not the best scifi I've read, not even the best book I've read by Varley, but it was OK. I felt that I should rate it somewhere between 3 and 4 stars. In the end, I decided to give it 4 stars, but be advised that this is a soft 4 stars (it would be 3.6 or 3.7). That's a tepid recommendation, so if you don't like it, don't blame me.longer than it should be and it has some other shortcomings. Not the best scifi I've read, not even the best book I've read by Varley, but it was OK. I felt that I should rate it somewhere between 3 and 4 stars. In the end, I decided to give it 4 stars, but be advised that this is a soft 4 stars (it would be 3.6 or 3.7). That's a tepid recommendation, so if you don't like it, don't blame me.	2001-08-04
US	51624230	R1C8BZPNTIPXIP	0064407055	505341703	Ella Enchanted (Trophy Newbery)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	An Old Tale Put In A New Light	Imagine what it would be like if you had to do anything and everything anybody ever told you to do. No matter how silly and no matter how much you might not want to. Ella of Frell is in just such a predicament in &quot;Ella Enchanted&quot;. She was the recipient of the &quot;gift&quot; of obedience, irresistable and unquestioning obedience, from the foolish fairy Lucinda when she was a baby. Such a curse would be a burden even in benevolent surroundings and if kept secret, but after Ella's mother dies, her father sends her off to finishing school. Can she keep her secret from Hattie and Olive, the two disagreeable daughters of her father's friend, Dame Olga? If they discovered her secret, life could become miserable. And it's not an easy secret to keep in a boarding school. Worse yet, suppose her father decided to marry Dame Olga, making Hattie and Olive her stepsisters.  Is there any way for Ella to escape such a mess and to avoid hurting her dearest friend, Prince Charmont?<br />Gail Carson Levine has taken the old Cinderella fairy tale and given it a whole new depth and dimension. Cinderella becomes Ella, a very real young women with some serious issues to resolve. She also has to deal with giants, elves, and some hungry ogres who would love to have her for lunch. In the course of dealing with all this, Ella shows real courage, resilience, wit, and more than a little determination.  This engaging book has won a bunch of awards, and deservedly so. Neither my daughter or I found it as engrossing as Harry Potter (our joint standard for five stars in this genre), but &quot;Ella Enchanted&quot; is still a very good story for most older children and young teens. We rate it 4+ stars and definitely recommend it.	2001-07-29
US	51624230	R1I46O8OFLIY61	0385006896	390250393	The Complete Sherlock Holmes	Books	5	2	3	N	N	It's All Here	I remember my first encounter with Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson. It was just after my fifteenth birthday and I had gotten some money. I was trailing my mother through a department store, and was bored to tears, when I ran across a rack of paperback books (it was the early 1960's and there weren't bookstores all over the place, then). I'd heard of Sherlock Holmes and I'd heard of &quot;The Hound Of The Baskervilles&quot;, but didn't know anything about either. I picked up a copy of &quot;The Adventures Of Sherlock Holmes&quot; and was intrigued, so I also grabbed a copy of &quot;The Hound...&quot; and used a bit of my birthday money to buy them both. I started reading &quot;The Hound...&quot; in the car on the way home, and kept reading after we arrived. In fact, I couldn't put it down. I finished it before I went to sleep that night. It was the beginning of a long and satisfying acquintance. Now, all of Sir Arthur's original Holmes stories can be had right here in one complete volume. Whether you're a mystery lover, or you just like a good story, it doesn't get any better than this. What more could you ask for. I have a copy, and it's given me many hours of great reading. I think most other people will enjoy it, too. I recommend it most highly.	2001-07-22
US	51624230	RID7K7RMVNELY	0449225666	653726410	Pentecost Alley (Charlotte & Thomas Pitt Novels)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	One Of The Best	&quot;Pentecost Alley&quot; is another entry in Anne Perry's Charlotte and Thomas Pitt series. It is the thirteenth of these stories that I've read, so it would be safe to assume that I like the series. Perry seems to have a good feel for the period and her characters are well-drawn. She makes late nineteenth century London seem an exceedingly grim place, and perhaps by our standards it was, but other major cities of the day were likely worse (some still are). She sometimes spends a bit too much space on her soapbox expounding on the social evils of the day, something that Doyle avoided (to his credit -- his stories were always concise). Still, the social ills focused on are invariably central to the plot, so this is only a minor complaint. Some of Perry's earlier stories also suffered from rather simplistic plots. There was often a single character with a clearly dysfunctional personality, leaving the reader with only the details to figure out. All that is not a problem here, though. Perry makes it clear in the course of &quot;Pentecost Alley&quot; that she is against capital punishment (an opinion that is not necessarily germaine to the story), but the plot is intricate and intriguing. As public pressure mounts on Pitt, especially when it appears that the wrong man has been hanged for the murder of Ada McKinley, I felt his anxiety. The tension builds very effectively. Although I was able to identify a couple of characters who ended up in a central role, I still couldn't see how it all fitted together until very near the end.<br />Fans will enjoy &quot;Pentecost Alley&quot; as another chance to spend time with all the regular characters: Thomas, Charlotte, Emily, Gracie, Caroline, Grandmama, the children, etc., but beyond that this is a first rate mystery that any mystery fan can sink his teeth into. I think this is one of Perry's best efforts, and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys reading a good mystery, whether familiar with the series or not.	2001-07-15
US	51624230	RD1NXSB2MQM00	0812535154	263170175	Neptune Crossing (The Chaos Chronicles, Vol 1)	Books	3	31	34	N	Y	Jury's Still Out	As others have said, \\"Neptune Crossing\\" seemingly has everything it needs to be a compelling scifi read. An \\"electrifying scenario\\" that finds a comet speeding on a collision course with Earth, an alien artifact with accompanying alien, romance, and \\"a winning combination in Bandicut and the...quarx\\". Why, then, did I find this book less than compelling? First, I'm not crazy about incorporeal beings that inhabit people's minds. They're OK in fantasies or ghost stories, but this is supposed to be \\"hard\\" scifi and there isn't any hard evidence anywhere for the existence of incorporeal beings. Secondly, as somebody else has pointed out, there is a lot here (and not just alien technology) that goes completely unexplained. Finally, though, and most importantly, the story meandered. There just wasn't enough action to keep me turning the page to see what would happen next. Between the first 30 pages and the last 50, not much happens that seems to be of major consequence to the! plot. Even the development of the relationship between John and Julie seems to be a side issue, significant only because it adds to Bandicut's reluctance to do what he obviously must. The mine accident, for example, seems largely irrelevant. Ultimately, this was a slow read. Reading often right before going to bed, I more than once found that I had fallen asleep after reading only a page or two.<br /><br />Oddly, the action finally did pick up near the end, and the end left things hanging in an interesting place. It left me wanting to know more about the new artifact and where things go from there, as well as whether John will ever get back to Julie. In short, it left me wanting to read the next installment in the series (this book is the first). On its own, this book is, IMHO, just average. You may want to give it a try, however, on the possibility that subsequent books in the series will be better. Stay tuned.	2001-07-04
US	51624230	R3V54VQRU95PYW	0312194390	627904901	The Autobiography of Henry VIII: With Notes by His Fool, Will Somers: A Novel	Books	5	107	110	N	N	Informative Fiction	My knowledge of Tudor England is certainly not comprehensive, but this book appears to have been very thoroughly researched and to be very solidly based on the factual information that has come down to us. Of course, being a work of fiction, the author has taken the liberty of putting her own interpretation on the facts and supplying private thoughts and words as she thinks appropriate. Nevertheless, the reader can probably learn as much about Henry and his times from this book as from a casual perusal of the historical record.<br />In many ways, this is a dark book. Henry was a complex man, and dangerous to get close to. A number of those closest to him lost their heads. Life was relatively short in those days anyway, though, and I found myself feeling for Henry by the end. In a very superstitious age, he was driven by his own inner demons. And it is apalling how superstitious these people were. There was a strong tendency to attribute every significant event as an act of God. Given the misfortunes that dogged his life, Henry was often left to wonder what he had done to offend his &quot;God&quot;. Hence, he can convince himself that his marriage to Katherine of Aragon was incestuous when there was no hope of her giving him a son, despite many years together and the possibility that she was one of the few who really loved him. Later, he is able to convince himself that Anne Boleyn is a &quot;witch&quot;. Disagreeable she might have been. She comes across as vain, selfish, greedy and vengeful. But, she certainly wasn't directly responsible for any of the deaths and illnesses in Henry's family. Nor is it likely that hismarriages were provoking angry responses from any vengeful deities.<br />If you have any interest in the life and times of Henry VIII, then you should definitely read this book. Even if you don't have any special interest here, this is an excellent book. It gives a very human and compassionate look into the life of a remarkable man. It's quite long, but it never bored me, and the quality of the writing and level of scholarship behind this work are outstanding. Although he will infuriate you at times, you will understand and appreciate him in the end.it never bored me, and the quality of the writing and level of scholarship behind this work are outstanding. Although he will infuriate you at times, you will understand and appreciate him in the end.	2001-06-12
US	51624230	R3L529JCUUXEVP	1584850841	162437459	Mystery of the Dark Tower: a Bessie Mystery (American Girl History Mysteries)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	A Humorous Mystery	My daughter and I have completed another &quot;history mystery&quot;. This one takes place in 1928. It begins with Ed Coulter taking his daughter, Bessie, and his son, Eddie, away from their North Carolina farm in the middle of the night, but leaving his wife behind. Bessie and Eddie soon find themselves living in their aunt's house in Harlem. Their father is hardly ever around and nobody will explain to them what's going on. Bessie is afraid that her family is breaking up, especially after an attractive, well-dressed woman picks her father up in a car one afternoon.<br />My daughter rates this one about average for this series and I can see why. The mystery isn't the most compelling. There is little sense of danger and no pirates, secret tunnels, or dark forests with unseen characters lurking just out of sight. On the other hand, my daughter didn't see through it, so it maintained her interest right to the end.<br />Personally, I found this one more humorous than any of the others. There are several funny situations, like when Bessie finds herself forced to eat oatmeal from a dish she had secretly had a big, slimy slug in earlier and had put away without washing. The situation surrounding Flo, the neighborhood hoodoo woman is also amusing.<br />Like the others in this series, this story is good for kids. It includes real historical information and characters, and it has positive messages and role models. Originally, I gave the whole series 5-star ratings. In my opinion, however, the Harry Potter books are the heavyweights in this genre, and though I still recommend the &quot;history mysteries&quot;, they aren't as good as Harry. So, in the interest of consistency, I've changed my &quot;history mystery&quot; rating to four stars. This one, while not the best of the group in our opinion, certainly isn't inferior to the rest, either. I recommend the entire series to girls in the nine to twelve age group.	2001-06-09
US	51624230	R1S3HZM7J3GPMF	1584850884	398189016	Under Copp's Hill (American Girl History Mysteries)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Is The Settlement House Haunted?	That's the key question in this &quot;history mystery&quot;. The setting is Boston's North End in 1908. Innocenza &quot;Innie&quot; Moretti, an eleven-year-old girl, lives in a tenement with her Uncle Giovanni's family and her grandmother. Her parents were killed in a fire when she was only two. She loves the club for girls from immigrant families at the new settlement house in her neighborhood. Here she can listen to stories, borrow books, and make new friends. But when things begin disappearing from the settlement house, and other things turn up in odd places, suspicion fastens on Innie. Helped by her new friend, a Jewish girl from Russia named Matela, Innie must find out what is going on. Is there a thief, or is the house haunted?<br />Readers of &quot;Under Copp's Hill&quot; experience late night vigils in an old cemetery and explore a dank old tunnel. The plot is not complicated, but there is plenty of tension for pre-teens as Innie tries to solve the mystery before she is kicked out of the club. Beyond that, the story also has something to say about the difficulties faced by immigrants in America in the early 1900's, and about how people of different ethnic and religious backgrounds could put their old-world differences behind them. All in all, this is another fine entry in the &quot;history mystery&quot; series. My daughter now ranks &quot;Under Copp's Hill&quot; as her second favorite of the nine we've read so far, behind only &quot;The Smuggler's Treasure&quot;. I recommend the entire series to young readers and their parents.	2001-05-17
US	51624230	RJP7ALD1GKO8B	0440223989	366346333	Sunset Limited (Dave Robicheaux)	Books	4	35	38	N	N	Don't Start Here	&quot;Sunset Limited&quot; is my first book by Burke.  In many ways, it is excellent. Burke has the ability to make you feel like you're in the middle of the scenes he describes. He conjures up mist rising from a Louisiana bayou so that you not only see it, you smell it and feel it as well. His characters come alive in a very human way. There are manipulators and pawns, perpetrators and victims. Innocents sometimes pay a heavy price for the misdeeds of others, but even a killer like Swede Boxleiter has redeeming qualities. And Burke's story never has a dull moment. Tension is constant and there is plenty of action.<br />With all these strengths brought to bear,&quot;Sunset Limited&quot; has a lot going for it, but it also has some shortcomings. This is the 16th Dave Robicheaux novel. A consequence of this is that some things are taken for granted, like the nickname &quot;Streak&quot;. Several characters use it on Robicheaux, but if you're unfamiliar with the series, its significance is lost on you. This isn't a big deal, but it is symptomatic of the fact that terms and local expressions abound in this book. To the extent that it can sometimes be difficult for the uninitiated to follow the meaning. Another thing that struck me was that there are a lot of characters in the story, and some just seem to fade in or out without adequate introduction or resolution. For example, &quot;Cool Breeze&quot; Broussard is a pivotal character early in the story, but he just seems to disappear about midway through and you never see any more of him. In the end, the story itself seems to fade away almost like &quot;Cool Breeze&quot;. I felt that a lot was left unresolved when the book was done, and it left me with a vaguely unsatisfied feeling. Real life is often like this,a nd some readers may like it this way, but I don't read fiction to get reality. I like stories with all the loose ends tied up.<br />When I got &quot;Sunset Limited&quot;, I was not aware that the Dave Robicheaux character had such a lengthy history. In retrospect, this book was probably not the best place to make his acquaintance. The story is fast-paced and I enjoyed it, but I felt that a lot of loose ends remained when I finished the book, and I probably would have gotten more from it if I had read other books in this series before this one. This is a good book, and I think fans of this series will certainly enjoy it. If you're a newcomer to the Robicheaux novels, however, I suggest that you start with an earlier one. For myself, some earlier Robicheaux books are definitely on the agenda.haracter had such a lengthy history. In retrospect, this book was probably not the best place to make his acquaintance. The story is fast-paced and I enjoyed it, but I felt that a lot of loose ends remained when I finished the book, and I probably would have gotten more from it if I had read other books in this series before this one. This is a good book, and I think fans of this series will certainly enjoy it. If you're a newcomer to the Robicheaux novels, however, I suggest that you start with an earlier one. For myself, some earlier Robicheaux books are definitely on the agenda.	2001-05-13
US	51624230	R2FP1RTIXR3DG6	0689801734	866305122	The Boggart	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Old Meets New	&quot;The Boggart&quot; is a nice little tale about a very ancient and mischievous spirit. This boggart lives in an old castle on an island in a lake in Scotland. He likes to play tricks, and he has been playing them on the inhabitants of this castle for hundreds of years. When the old man who has been the last resident of the castle dies, ownership passes to his nearest relatives, the Volniks. The Volnik family lives in Canada and includes Emily, her computer-whiz brother, Jessop, and her parents. After traveling to Scotland and spending some time in the castle, they put it up for sale and return home, bringing a few antiques with them. What they don't know is that they've also brought the boggart along. Finding himself in an unfamiliar place and surrounded by all the trappings of modern life, the boggart embarks on a series of pranks. Boggarts aren't malicious, and the intent of his mischief is innocent enough, but the consequences range from comical to dangerous. For Emily and her family, the problem is to figure out what is going on and how to deal with it.<br />I read this book with my nine-year-old daughter, Alix. She liked it, as evidenced by the fact that she was always curious to see what was going to happen next. It's a light, amusing tale, with plenty of humor and an intriquing touch of the supernatural. I'm sure most kids would enjoy it.	2001-05-11
US	51624230	R24BSI3U6JQJW4	0441888054	972695419	The Weird of the White Wolf (Elric Saga)	Books	2	5	14	N	Y	More Of The Same	If you've seen my reviews of either of the first two books in this series, let me just say that this is more of the same. You get the picture. Moorcock continues to be competent in his use of the english language. That he writes prose ably keeps this from getting a single star rating. As a storyteller, however, Moorcock is a huge disappointment. Elric continues to be a boor and the stories are grim and cheerless.<br />In this book, Elric brings down what's left of his civilization to get revenge (for what?) on his cousin. In the process, he kills the woman he loves (actually his sword kills her; apparently Elric is unable to control its actions). After leaving his allies to their fate, he wanders aimlessly through the human world, which is an unrelievably dull and grim place. He's not seeking adventure and cares about nothing, but adventure finds him and he pursues it, anyway. For example, &quot;Elric followed, conscious of his own indecision, yet half-careless of it.&quot; And so it goes. Plus, there are ever-present contradictions. At one point, he is in a totally dark cave, his two companions clinging to him, but he is unaware of them. &quot;He was lost and his brian was numb.&quot; A moment later he is acutely aware of their unspoken fear. These stories all meander in the meaningless and contradictory fashion. In the end, Elric never gets himself out of whatever predicament he is in. He is always calling upon Arioch to save him.<br />Some people seem to like this stuff. Well, I leave it to them. Happily, this is the last Elric book for me. In my view, these stories are dull, pointless and boring. There is little to entertain and Elric is a completely unsypathetic hero. I advise readers to avoid these books. There must be better fantasy novels than this out there somewhere.	2001-05-03
US	51624230	R2ZJRS5ICPIJWO	1584850906	420419387	Watcher in the Piney Woods (American Girl History Mysteries)	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Civil War Suspense	Set in Virginia in early 1865, &quot;Watcher In The Piney Woods&quot; is the story of twelve-year-old Cassie Willis and her family. With Cassie's father and oldest brother away fighting for the South, keeping the family farm going has been a struggle. Then, the family is devastated when a letter arrives informing them that Jacob, Cassie's brother, has been killed. Cassie goes into the woods to be alone, but is grabbed by a deserter who is using her secret thicket for his hideout. Cassie escapes, but not before the man threatens Cassie and her family. After that, things begin to disappear from the farm, and Cassie gets the ominous feeling that somebody is watching her.<br />This is one of the better books in the &quot;history mystery&quot; series. Out of the eight we've read, my daughter says she rates this one second only to &quot;The Smuggler's Treasure&quot;. I'm not surprised. A threat of real danger is established early in this story, and the tension is maintained throughout most of the book. The reader is kept wondering what is going to happen next, and that makes for a fun and entertainig read. As with the other stories in the series, this one also has something to teach about the history of the time and provides good role models for young readers. It's a good book for kids, and I recommend it highly to both kids and their parents.	2001-05-02
US	51624230	REIW1DIGA0XA3	0446405329	830671152	An Excellent Mystery: The Eleventh Chronicle of Brother Cadfael (Brother Cadfael Mysteries)	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	A Very Good Mystery	It is the late summer of 1141. The war between King Stephen and Empress Maud to decide who will rule England continues. As the fighting rages, the abbey in Winchester is destroyed and two of the displaced monks find their way to the Abbey of Saints Peter and Paul at Shrewsbury. Brother Humilis is a former crusader who is slowly dying of his wounds. He is accompanied by Brother Fidelis, a young mute who is devoted (for reasons unknown) to the care of Humilis. But their relationship is only one mystery. Another is what has happened to Julian Croce, a young woman fron a manor in the north of the shire who seems to have disappeared while on her way to join a convent near Winchester.<br />Peters books are a pleasure to read. She exhibits an elegant turn of phrase that. As someone else here has already remarked, she makes the &quot;grim and gritty middle ages&quot; sound like someplace you might actually want to live. And this is one of her better plots. I figured out what was going on about halfway through, but only because I got an unintentional hint from someone who had already read the book. Even so, it was a pleasure to watch the story unfold.<br />Elegant style and clever plotting aside, however, the story is a bit over-romanticized. For example, at one point Nicholas rides non-stop from Winchester to Shrewsbury, through both day and night and, finally, through a storm. He &quot;must get his tale at once to the ears of authority&quot; and he &quot;dared not stop hating, or the remaining grief became more than he could stand.&quot; All this intense feeling over a girl he had only met once, three years earlier. Sorry if this makes me a chauvinist, but clearly this is a woman writing about how women wish men felt about them. This is the mystical ideal of chivalrous love. It isn't how a young man would really feel under such circumstances. This is typical of Peters and it doesn't really hurt the story, but it is a bit gushy and you can tell a woman wrote it. For a male reader, it's just a little over the top.<br />Peters is a charming writer. She paints a vivid, if somewhat romanticized, picture of life in the 1100's. Cadfael and the rest of her characters are congenial and her stories are light, but entertaining. The mysteries are sometimes a bit transparent, but not this one. This is one of her better ones. Cadfael fans will definitely enjoy it. Others should keep in mind that this is definitely a romantic mystery. Also, if you haven't read a Cadfael mystery before, you should consider starting at the beginning of the series. That said, I recommend &quot;An Excellent Mystery&quot; to those who like this type of story. It's better than most.reader, it's just a little over the top.<br />Peters is a charming writer. She paints a vivid, if somewhat romanticized, picture of life in the 1100's. Cadfael and the rest of her characters are congenial and her stories are light, but entertaining. The mysteries are sometimes a bit transparent, but not this one. This is one of her better ones. Cadfael fans will definitely enjoy it. Others should keep in mind that this is definitely a romantic mystery. Also, if you haven't read a Cadfael mystery before, you should consider starting at the beginning of the series. That said, I recommend &quot;An Excellent Mystery&quot; to those who like this type of story. It's better than most.	2001-04-28
US	51624230	R252BG88UA53U6	0061056405	920320505	Foundation and Chaos: The Second Foundation Trilogy	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Foundation? What Foundation?	&quot;Foundation and Chaos&quot; is an improvement from the opening volume of this new Foundation trilogy. Unfortunately, it isn't a huge improvement. Greg Bear's writing style is reminiscent of Asimov, and he manages to avoid subjecting the reader to the seemingly endless philosophical noodling by antagonistic computer sims that dominated &quot;Foundation's Rear&quot;. But what we get instead is 400 pages dominated by polite factional disagreements among robots and hide-and-go-seek among telepathic humans and robots. Political corruption and palace intrigue are secondary to a lengthy consideration of the relationship between man and machine. In the process, the machines become ridiculously human and the humans begin to become something else. Don't get me wrong, a consideration of the relationship between human and machine is not an unworthy topic for consideration in the context of science fiction, but it shouldn't supercede the story. The fate of the characters here isn't compelling, there is little action, and the plot is weak. The appearance of &quot;mentalics&quot; in response to robotic manipulation of human history is a failure to really deal with that issue. And, where did the robots get extra-sensory capabilities? There is a new Emperor, but Klayus I disappears from the story long before the end and we're given little information about what happened tohis predecessors, Cleon and Agis. The roles of Prothon, Chen, and Hari Seldon in these events could surely have added interest to this story.<br />This book was an improvement over &quot;Foundation's Fear&quot;, but it still fell far short of what it could have been. The decline of an empire of galactic proportions offers fertile ground for story-telling, but these books have squandered that potential. Good books keep you turning the pages to see what is going to happen next, and it makes you care what happens to its characters. This book, like its predecessor, was dull and I had to push myself to get through it. I rate it a weak three stars.it. I rate it a weak three stars.	2001-04-21
US	51624230	R2HE0W5HMLDZRI	1584850868	119954238	Trouble at Fort Lapointe (American Girl History Mysteries)	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Can You Solve This History Mystery?	The early summer of 1732 bring Suzette and her family to La Pointe Island on Lake Superior. The Ojibwe people camp by the French fur-trading fort on the island every summer. Suzette's mother is an Ojibwe woman. Her father is a Frenchman who works for the French fur-trading company. Ordinarily, Suzette's father would have to spend each winter in faraway Montreal, but this year there is a competition among the trappers. If Suzette's father wins, he will be able to pay off his company contract and stay with his Ojibwe family year-round. Then things get complicated. First, someone sabotages the canoe carrying Suzette and her family to the island. Her father almost losses some furs. Suzette almost drowns. Next, the competition is halted when a bale of furs is stolen from the fort. Evidence begins to point to Suzette's father as the thief. Can Suzette figure out who the real culprit is and save her father from exile? Can you figure out what's going on before Suzette?<br />My daughter didn't like this &quot;History Mystery&quot; as well as the others we have read. I think she might have been put off by the fur-trading aspect of it. The idea of men competing to see who can get the most animal skins didn't sit very well with her. On the other hand, that was a fact of life in those days. We can't ignore the past just because some aspects of it conflict with our modern sensibilities. I thought this was one of the more engaging mysteries in the series. Suzette comes across as a bit more aggressive than a girl in her circumstances might be allowed to be, but she is brave and she comes through when the chips are down. This is a good book for young readers, with all the positive aspects I've cited in my reviews of other entries in this series. I recommend it highly to kids and their parents.	2001-04-13
US	51624230	RSZQ8RH5O3W12	0140441581	149799579	The Makers of Rome: Nine Lives (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Nine Fascinating &quot;Lives&quot; By Plutarch	Plutarch is one of the most popular ancient historians. His straightforward style and flair for the dramatic make his biographies of ancient Greeks and Romans both informative and entertaining. In fact, a number of Shakespearean characters are based on Plutarch's writings. It was his fondness for dramatic appeal that prompted the &quot;semi-fictional&quot; rather than purely factual treatment of history for which he is known. His intent was not so much to record historical events as it was use character and dramatic examples of success and failure to illustrate moral lessons.<br />Plutarch was not an eyewitness to the events he recorded. Although he was a prominent scholar and civil servant and traveled widely, he spent most of his life in Chaeronea in central Greece. Further, his subjects all lived 200 or more years before him. He had a wide variety of sources, but conflicting evidence and an occaissional paucity of detail gave him ample opportunities to dramatize or embellish his work.<br />In his &quot;Lives&quot;, Plutarch pursued two major themes. One was the tenacity of Rome in war. Despite military setbacks, Rome always stayed the course and prevailed in the end. Whether it was Hannibal, Pyrrhus, gallic tribes or whoever, Rome outlasted them. The second was Rome's political genius and ability to compromise. In contrast to the Greeks, who always fought among themselves and brought about their own downfall, Romans managed to put aside their differences and stand together when necessary.<br />The &quot;Lives&quot; were originally written in pairs, matching a Greek and a Roman whose lives paralleled each other in Plutarch's estimation. For example, he paired the lives of Alexander the Great and Julius Caesar. To most modern readers, these pairings seem artificial. Instead, translator Scott-Kilvert has chosen to group together nine Roman biographies that collectively extend through the period from the beginnings of the Republic to the establishment of the Empire and illustrate Plutarch's two major themes.<br />These &quot;Lives&quot; are fascinating reading. Find out how the strategy of Fabius Maximus enabled Rome to defeat Hannibal and why the Gracchi brothers were killed. This book is a must for anybody with an interest in Roman history. Beyond that, though, Plutarch's straightforward and dramatic style will appeal to many casual readers, as well. Give it a try. Highly recommended.nd illustrate Plutarch's two major themes.<br />These &quot;Lives&quot; are fascinating reading. Find out how the strategy of Fabius Maximus enabled Rome to defeat Hannibal and why the Gracchi brothers were killed. This book is a must for anybody with an interest in Roman history. Beyond that, though, Plutarch's straightforward and dramatic style will appeal to many casual readers, as well. Give it a try. Highly recommended.	2001-04-11
US	51624230	R314K4Q04I1MFH	0152020853	475567483	Wizard's Hall	Books	4	9	13	N	Y	A Good Story, But...	My daughter and I read &quot;Wizard's Hall&quot; together. She likes Harry Potter a lot and I must admit that I find the Potter books entertaining, too. But we had already read all the Harry Potter books available to date and were looking for something to fill the void. &quot;Wizard's Hall&quot; is about a boy named Henry who becomes the 113th student at a training school for young wizards. He isn't a very promising student. His curses don't work quite right, and his spell chanting is off a tone. But his mother had taught him to keep trying and that lesson serves him well. He also discovers that the school is threatened by a fierce monster, and it turns out that it is up to him to save it.<br />Some reviewers here have said that &quot;Wizard's Hall&quot; is better than the Harry Potter stories. Sorry, but not so. This is a good story and it is well written, but neither the story line nor the characterers are anywhere near as well developed as those in the Potter series. My daughter's comment was that she liked this book, but it was short. This isn't meant as a criticism. &quot;Wizard's Hall&quot; is a clever and interesting story and stands very well on its own. We recommend it. Just don't expect another Harry Potter, because it simply doesn't have that kind of depth. Four stars.	2001-04-04
US	51624230	RI5HY07FM67T4	1562477595	691756990	The Night Flyers (American Girl History Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Another High Flyer	Pam Lowder is a twelve-year-old girl with a special gift for handling animals. She and her father raise the best homing pigeons on the North Carolina coast. One reason they are the best is that her father has developed a way to train their birds to fly at night. But the year is 1918. Pam's father is a soldier in World War I and is far away in Europe. When a stranger with a foreign accent shows up in the area, some people suspect he is a spy. Pam becomes even more suspicious when the stranger offers her a lot of money for her pigeons and, after she refuses to sell, the birds start disappearing.<br />This entry in the &quot;history mystery&quot; series won an award for best children's mystery of the year 2000. My daughter still likes &quot;The Smuggler's Treasure&quot; best of the six books that we have now completed in this series, but I can vouch for the fact that she has enjoyed them all. Like all the others, this one gives the young reader an appealing young heroine, an engaging story, and some solid historical background. All in all, a very good book for girls in the 9 to 12 age group. Highly recommended.	2001-03-30
US	51624230	RJIPMBKS26MPT	0441748635	814190163	The Sailor on the Seas of Fate (Elric Saga)	Books	2	2	13	N	Y	A Fate I'd Rather Not Share	[....]<br />Fantasy stories, by their very nature, require that the reader grant the author a great deal of latitude. There are limits, however. When we start crossing almost seamlessly through multiple \\"planes of existence\\", whatever that means, and meeting various aspects of ourselves, whatever that means, my credibility reaches its breaking point. What does all this mean? Some will call it \\"deep\\", but if you read the various reviews here, you'll see that no two people agree on what it means. To me, that indicates that it objectively meant very little, allowing folks to read in whatever they want. Some writers get credit for being deep when, in reality, they are just vague and/or absurd. Good writers tell good stories and, if there is any special meaning to be gleaned from their work, it is clear for the reader to see. The social evils or personal and emotional issues that Shakespeare, Dickens, Doyle, Defoe, etc. address are plainly discernable.<br />Moorcock, in contrast, writes aimless tales and his main character,Elric, is a dull, frustrating main character. He wanders from one adventure to another. He doesn't seem to have any motivation for what he does, and he is always second-guessing his own actions. His actions are often inexplicable to the reader, as well. At one point in this story, he orders Arioch to leave a city in order to release another character from a curse. When Arioch warns him that his action will bring down a far greater curse on the entire world, he forces Arioch to depart anyway. Some hero. He allows himself to be ruled by his \\"fate\\" and, at times, his sword, then feels guilty when the consequences are bad. Consider the fate of Duke Avan. Even the real world is better than this.<br />I already have the next book in this series, so I will go ahead and read it. I expect it will be the last Elric book I will read, though. I have not liked either of the first two books in this series. Obviously, some people do, and I will happily leave Elric to them. I would rather read Tolkien again and again if the rest of the fantasy genre had nothing better to offer than this. The only recommendation I can make regarding these Elric  books is to avoid them.them. I would rather read Tolkien again and again if the rest of the fantasy genre had nothing better to offer than this. The only recommendation I can make regarding these Elric  books is to avoid them.	2001-03-17
US	51624230	RPQGHMQJCO8QG	1562477609	500822836	Secrets on 26th Street (American Girl History Mysteries)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Another Very Good History Mystery	This is another very good entry in the &quot;history mystery&quot; series. I've seen it called the best one, although my daughter didn't like it quite as much as &quot;The Smuggler's Treasure&quot; or &quot;Shadows In The Glasshouse&quot;. She connected emotionally with Susan, the 11-year-old girl who is the main character, and with the other people in the story. Much of the plot, however, is connected with the women's suffrage movement, which is perhaps a bit difficult for a 21st century ten-year-old to relate to.<br />&quot;Secrets On 26th Street&quot; takes place in New York in 1914. Susan's widowed mother takes a boarder into their small apartment to help pay the rent. It soon becomes apparent to Susan that there is more to Bea than meets the eye. When Susan's mother mysteriously disappears, Susan is convinced that Bea knows more than she is telling.<br />This is another good story for young girls. It has an good plot and engaging characters. Informative historical background information is woven in, as well. The historical information is dwelt on a bit too much in this particular book, but overall it is another solid entry in an excellent series. Recommended highly to kids and their parents.	2001-03-16
US	51624230	R1OEOZXY7KY6MP	1584850922	371620966	Shadows in the Glasshouse (American Girl History Mysteries)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A Clear Winner	This is the fourth &quot;history mystery&quot; that my daughter and I have shared. She has been looking forward to our reading time each night since we began them. It is also like this when we read Harry Potter, but has not always been the case with other things we've read together, so I think it's safe to say that she enjoys these stories a lot. She says this one is her &quot;second favorite&quot; of those we've read so far (The Smuggler's Treasure is her favorite), but they've all been good.<br />This one starts out with Merrie Shipman aboard ship, bound for the Jamestown colony in 1621. She and her older sister were orphans struggling to survive on their own in London when she was kidnapped and put on the ship. During the voyage, she makes friends with Angelo, a glassblower's apprentice. When they reach Jamestown, Merrie is sold into indentured servitude. Fortunately, it is the owner of the glasshouse who has her contract, so she gets to work at the glasshouse with her friend. Trouble ensues when some notes relating to a new glassmaking formula are stolen from Angelo and work at the glasshouse is sabotaged.<br />The storyline may be a bit predictable in its outcome, but it is plenty engaging for the 9 to 12 year-old audience it is written for. It also gives kids a good insight into the early colonial period. Indentured servitude, the hardships of sailing across the Atlantic, and the difficulties and opportunities of life in the New World are vividly portrayed. Readers even learn about &quot;tobacco brides&quot;, which was something new to me, too. Finally, Merrie is a courageous young girl, who takes risks to protect her friend and bring about a just outcome.<br />The &quot;history mystery&quot; series is a good one for kids. This particular story will not disappoint. Highly recommended to kids and their parents.	2001-03-09
US	51624230	R2X12RAKW7SQDH	0446603023	763479497	Till the Butchers Cut Him Down	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Cut Above	It is always a pleasure to start in on another McCone mystery from Marcia Muller. The familiar northern California settings and the now-familiar characters surrounding McCone provide a comfort zone that makes it easy to get into each new tale. I've read all the books that preceded this one and recommend them all. Starting at the beginning is the best way to do it.<br />Even if you've never read any of the other McCone mysteries, though, this one is very good on its own. Having decided to break from All Souls and become an independent investigator, McCone's first client is someone from her student days at UC Berkeley. &quot;Suits&quot; Gordon has become a corporate turnaround specialist and made some enemies along the way. Now, he thinks someone is trying to kill him and he wants McCone to find out who. The plot keeps twisting and turning right through to the end, with never a dull moment along the way.<br />This is a very good mystery, whether you're familiar with the San Francisco Bay Area and/or past McCone mysteries or not. There are plenty of surprises, and the pace doesn't let up. I have given 4 stars in past reviews to books in this series, but Mullers has outdone herself this time. Her best yet, in my opinion. Highly recommended with 5 stars.	2001-03-07
US	51624230	R1XXFPREWVB17U	0441203981	305128953	Elric of Melnibone 1	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Fox Put In Charge Of Chicken Coop	Let me start by saying that this is only my first Elric book. My opinion may change if, and when, I read more. That stated, I must say that I found this to be a very curious \\"classic\\". For me, fantasy starts with Tolkien. Tolkien's stories have vast scope, likeable characters (hateable ones, too),and interesting plots. They also have a light, humorous touch. An element of playfulness. Thus, we get Bilbo hosting an unexpected gathering of dwarves and we get the incident involving the trolls Tom, Bert and William.<br />Moorcock's Elric of Melnibone also benefits from interesting plot twists and some very creative ideas. Further,Moorcock is technically an elegant writer. His prose borders on the poetic, at times. Elric, however, was a boor in my opinion. He is \\"cynical and melancholy\\" and riddled with self-doubt. He hardly ever makes a move without second-guessing himself. Some will argue that this makes him more real that the typical fantasy hero, but this IS fantasy, after all. I don't read fantasy to get \\"real life\\" thrown back in my face.<br />Elric, along with the rest of his people, is cruel. They think nothing of drugging galley slaves so that they give a super-human effort in battle, then drop dead afterward. They use sadistic forms of torture routinely, both to punish and to extract evidence from prisoners. This isn't very heroic,and heroes should understand that torture doesn't elicit evidence, only whatever the torturer wants to hear. A torture victim will say anything, whether it's true or not. A sorceror king shouldn't need to resort to physical torture.<br />Then there is Elric's evil cousin, Yyrkoon. Elric must repeatedly defend himself against Yyrkoon's treacherous betrayal, yet every time he defeats Yyrkoon, he lets him off the hook. In the end, we are to believe that Yyrkoon has changed his stripes, and Elric goes off seeking adventures leaving Yyrkoon to rule in his stead. Right! Farmer catches fox in coop eating chicken. Farmer puts fox in charge of chicken coop while he goes on vacation. Seems stupid to me.<br />Finally, there is no humor in this book. At all. Elric ponders. He doubts. He regrets. His kingdom is in decline. All is dark and humorless. Outside of Imrryr, Elric's capitol, all is shabby and dreary. And, ultimately, all are pawns of greater powers that care nothing for humans, anyway.<br />This is an imaginative, well-written, dreary story that is ultimately not very satisfying. The hero is foolish and unsympathetic. When all is said and done, you find it hard to really care what happens to him. I already have the next two books in the series, so I will read them. Perhaps Elric will become more sympathetic, but I'm not counting on it.chicken coop while he goes on vacation. Seems stupid to me.<br />Finally, there is no humor in this book. At all. Elric ponders. He doubts. He regrets. His kingdom is in decline. All is dark and humorless. Outside of Imrryr, Elric's capitol, all is shabby and dreary. And, ultimately, all are pawns of greater powers that care nothing for humans, anyway.<br />This is an imaginative, well-written, dreary story that is ultimately not very satisfying. The hero is foolish and unsympathetic. When all is said and done, you find it hard to really care what happens to him. I already have the next two books in the series, so I will read them. Perhaps Elric will become more sympathetic, but I'm not counting on it.	2001-03-05
US	51624230	R24OLQ7GTBCOY8	1562477617	420101782	Voices at Whisper Bend (American Girl History Mysteries)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A Voice In Favor	This history mystery takes place in 1942. America has joined the fighting in World War II and the normal patterns of everyday life have been disrupted. Charlotte's brother is in the Navy, her mother is working in a local factory, and her father and his tugboat are very busy hauling freight on the Monongahela River. Charlotte has started a drive at her school to collect scrap metal. Before they can send their scrap to the local mill, however, it disappears.<br />This is another very good story for kids. The mystery isn't quite as compelling as some of the others in this series, but that is made up for by its depiction of the difficulties of wartime life. How much families missed sons who had gone off to fight, the anxiety felt even by the children when the &quot;brown car&quot; that carries notification that somebody has been killed is seen in the neighborhood, and the unfair suspicions aimed at people from different ethnic backgrounds. Young girls will also be able to identify with Charlotte, the main character, as she struggles to overcome a deep personal fear and help her younger brother at a critical moment in the story.<br />Girls in the 9 to 12 age group will enjoy this book and benefit from its lessons, both historical and personal, at the same time. My daughter did. Definitely recommended.	2001-02-27
US	51624230	R22PF48UIY8S26	0312950489	498818576	The Black Echo (Harry Bosch)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Surprisingly Good	I became a mystery lover as a teenager reading Sherlock Holmes. Over the years, I've mostly stuck with English &quot;country house&quot; mysteries. Besides Doyle, I've read lots of books by Agatha Christie, Patricia Wentworth, Catherine Aird, Patricia Moyes, Margery Allingham, Anne Perry and others. I've generally stayed away from gritty, modern day, big city detective stories. More recently, however, I've begun to branch out more widely. A year or two ago, I got a copy of &quot;The Black Echo&quot; on the recommendation of a friend. After buying it, I had second thoughts and it sat on my shelf for quite a while. Finally, I decided to give it a shot. Surprise! I thoroughly enjoyed it. Harry Bosch is gritty, clever, insightful, and too irascible for his own good. He's just a little too outspoken and seems always to be in trouble with his superiors (nobody is stupid or tactless enough to expect to get away with provoking people like this guy does). Further, I hate to think that law enforcement people really spend as much time obstructing each other as they do here. No crimes would ever be solved.<br />That aside, though, this is a good story. The plot is intricate and develops relentlessly. The characters are well-drawn and Connelly knows the details of police work. Things start quickly and the book is hard to put down. I'm looking forward to reading more of Connelly's books. This one gets four stars -- only because it's not, after all, Doyle and because it's the first book by Connelly I've read. I have to leave room in case he can do even better. It's really 4+ stars.	2001-02-26
US	51624230	R1QZZL86TOJRM5	1562477579	40822266	The Smuggler's Treasure (American Girl History Mysteries)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Good Reading For Kids	It's 1814, and America is at war with Britain. Elizabet Holder's father, a ship owner and captain, has been captured by the British. Now, she must go from Boston to New Orleans to live with her aunt and uncle. But, when she arrives, she finds that her uncle has died, leaving stories of a secret map hidden in the house. On top of that, her aunt is away caring for a sick relative and she is expected to work in her aunt's bakery to earn her keep. Before this tale is over, Elizabet is threatened by a mysterious stranger and meets the famous pirate, Jean Lafitte.<br />This is the first book in the History Mystery series from American Girl. My daughter and I read it together and I know she enjoyed it because she never wanted to stop no matter how late the hour. Don't get me wrong, these stories aren't in the same league with Harry Potter. Someone has described them as &quot;thinly plotted&quot;. From an adult perspective, this may be true, but they're not written for adults. For most kids in the 9 to 12 age group, they're just fine. In addition, the young heroines of these stories are great examples for young female readers, and the historical settings and themes provide a learning experience, as well.<br />All in all, these are good books for kids. This is our second one (although it's actually the first in the series) and my daughter has very much liked both. I highly recommend this book to young readers and their parents. Though, as I wrote above, these books aren't the equal of Harry Potter, but this one is one of the best in this series. Rated at 4+ stars.	2001-02-24
US	51624230	R1H1GAEWFPBWTF	1562477587	58866191	Hoofbeats of Danger (American Girl History Mysteries)	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	History Mysteries: A Good Series For Kids	I read &quot;Hoofbeats Of Danger&quot; with my nine-year-old daughter. It was the first book in this series we read together. Since then, we have read a couple of others in the series and I imagine we will get to all of them. I know my daughter is enjoying these books because she always wants to keep going when it's time to stop. These books have three very positive aspects to them. First, they are good stories. They hold kids' interest and make reading fun. Second, the young heroines in these stories make good role models for the real girls reading or hearing the stories. Third, they provide a small history lesson, imparting some insight into a particular period and place in American history.<br />&quot;Hoofbeats Of Danger&quot; takes place on the frontier at the time of the Pony Express. It involves a realistic look at frontier life and provides some factual information along the way. I highly recommend this book and, in general, the entire series, to parents looking for reading material for kids (especially girls) in the nine to twelve age group.	2001-02-19
US	51624230	R4EC9WPSA1BMU	0140440844	584337600	The Fall of the Roman Republic: Six Lives (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	64	67	N	N	Dramatic &quot;Lives&quot; of Plutarch	Though he lived in the Roman Empire, Plutarch was a classical Greek scholar. He was born in Chaeronea in central Greece and spent most of his life there. He studied in Athens as a young man and later wrote on a variety of subjects, including natural science, metaphysics and morals. He also served in various civic capacities during his life, received a high government appointment in Greece from Hadrian, and traveled widely.<br />Plutarch's interest in writing his &quot;Lives&quot; is the character of the individual, the effects of education and status, the drama of successes and failures, and moral lessons that can be drawn from them. His focus on character and the moral lessons to be learned from history is much like Livy, but Plutarch chose to pursue his purpose more directly by writing biographical sketches of his subjects. These sketches were actually written in pairs, matching what Plutarch saw as a Greek and Roman whose lives were comparable. For example, he paired Alexander the Great and Julius Caesar. To most modern readers, this pairing seems rather artificial, and Penguin has chosen to group the &quot;Lives&quot; by historical period.<br />Plutarch was not an eyewitness to the events he records. The six men covered in this book lived 150 to 200 years before these &quot;Lives&quot; were written. Plutarch is relying on tradition and other historians for his information. Being a Greek writing after 100 A.D. allows him to be more detached, but his work necessarily reflects the biases and excesses of his sources. Was Sulla, for example, as thorough a monster as portrayed?<br />The &quot;Lives&quot; make wonderful reading. Plutarch had a simple, straightforward style and an superb eye for the dramatic. The six lives included in &quot;The Fall Of The Roman Republic&quot; are especially well-suited to his style. If you have any interest in Roman history, or if you just enjoy fascinating stories, this is not to be missed.	2001-02-15
US	51624230	RFJIPDEA39HPK	0451409221	610005634	The Medusa Stone (Philip Mercer)	Books	4	3	5	N	Y	The Medusa What?	Where is the stone in this book? I know what the Medusa part refers to, but there is no single stone that plays any part in the plot of this story. Whoever thought up that title went a little overboard, and that typifies the problem with this book. Yes, it is fast-paced, entertaining, action-packed -- in short it's a real page-turner. But it sometimes tries too hard. Several times I found myself saying &quot;yeah, right&quot; in the wake of some over-the-top scene. For example, early in the story Mercer's buddy Harry is kidnapped in order to coerce Mercer into taking on a project that he has already turned down. Another of Mercer's friends, who in this case happens to be the head of the FBI, lets Mercer know that Harry and his captors have been seen at the airport. Mercer charges into a crowded metro airport and proceeds to get into a gunfight with the terrorists. Innocent bystanders are killed, but the story goes on as if nothing had happened. Sorry, but come ON. Can you say newspaper headlines, airport security, congressional investigations, public outrage, and FBI gets new chief? And the bad guys! The Italian industrialist, in particular, is just eviler than evil. He's like a caricature. The ending was a bit of an anti-climax as well. There is an artifact embedded in this story, just like in all of the Indiana Jones movies. The trouble is, those artifacts were ultimately dealt with in the Indy movies. In this book, the artifact is not dealt with at all. After all everybody went through to get to the end of the story, the end was simply weak.<br />There was another problem here, too. This book had more errors in it than any other book I've ever read. And I've read a lot of books. I'm talking typos, syntax errors, that sort of thing. I can't blame the author for this. Publishers are supposed to employ people to read manuscripts and edit out these things. Somebody did a poor job with this.<br />It may not sound like it, but basically I liked this book. It was an entertaining read. It was fun despite the frustrating aspects that I've mentioned. It could have been a lot better, though. It wasn't a five-star effort, in my opinion. Four stars, and perhaps a soft four stars at that.ertaining read. It was fun despite the frustrating aspects that I've mentioned. It could have been a lot better, though. It wasn't a five-star effort, in my opinion. Four stars, and perhaps a soft four stars at that.	2001-02-06
US	51624230	R34K47JQHL0G5	0451163516	37397932	The Man from St. Petersburg (Signet)	Books	4	75	80	N	Y	Entertaining, But...	In many ways, this is vintage Ken Follett. It is fast-paced and keeps you wanting to see what is going to happen next. The writing is good and he does a good job of developing his characters and plot. He also seems to have a good feel for English society in the period immediately before WWI. Despite all this, however, I found myself less than satisfied with the overall result. He gives you Feliks, a Russian anachist and murderer who is on a misguided mission to stop an attempt to negotiate an alliance between Britain and Russia because he is convinced that millions of Russian peasants will die. It never seems to occur to him that the coming war will involve Russia anyway and that millions of peasants will die with or without an alliance. Then Follett tries to make Feliks a sympathetic character. He has been badly wronged in his life. Well, for me, it didn't work. Feliks was still a misguided terrorist bent on murder. Then you get the usual improbabilities: women whose misguided sympathies cause them to let Feliks get closer to his target than he ever would; Feliks miraculously escaping capture despite all odds; and Feliks resorting to a completely improbable tactic at the end. The climax finds Feliks resorting to a tactic that can best be described as using an elephant gun to kill a flea. He needs to flush out the Prince in order to get a shot at him, but Follett would have us accept that Feliks would endanger all that he seems to hold dear in the process. Churchill's action at the end to retrieve the situation was clever plotting, but seemed obvious to me as soon as it was clear what Feliks was going to do. I'm rather thought it would have occurred to Feliks, too. It would have been another good reason to not do what he did.<br />In many ways, &quot;The Man From St. Petersburg&quot; is a good read. For me, though, it asked me to go farther in suspending disbelief than I was prepared to go. The clever ending was a little too clever, and left me somewhat less than satisfied.tisfied.	2001-01-20
US	51624230	R3W37R5GWJWY77	0441006329	251318464	The Color of Distance	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An Interesting Encounter	I liked this book. It kept me reading and maintained my interest even though it was not what I would call intense or compelling. Technically, the writing is good, and I liked the author's ploy of shifting the point of view back and forth between Juna, the main human character, and some of the alien characters. I was also intrigued by her idea of humans reacting allergically to alien life.<br />Some aspects of this book were rather disappointing, however. First was the aliens, themselves. Scifi writers, in general, seem to have a difficult time imagining truly alien aliens. Most are all too humanoid, both physically and culturally. Scifi is rampant with intelligent reptilians. There are also lots of examples of intelligent and civilized doglike, catlike, horselike, and even birdlike species. The Tendu of this story are basically intelligent amphibians. Somewhere between tree frogs and salamanders basically, but structured much like humans. Their culture and environment suffer the same familiarity. Their environment is populated with trees, birds, snakes, lizards and other earthlike critters, but never anything really alien. The Tendu are technologically primitive, despite their intelligence, but very much &quot;in harmony&quot; with their environment. Much like primitive tribal peoples here. They are, however, very advanced in their understanding of biology. This is effcted through a form of physical and emotional linking called allu'a. This is a mystical ability and, though humans can  participate in it, it is never clear just how it works or what the biological mechanism is that makes it possible.<br />Another problem of this book is the lack of action. There's plenty of conflict, but it always remains at the verbal and emotional level. The Tendu have their disagreements, but they never really get mad. Everybody is always scrupulously polite. Almost the only physical action in the book takes place during the flood season, when an alien gets bitten by a predatory fish. A foot is lost, but it is regenerated, so no real harm is done. The reader never even &quot;sees&quot; the fish. This and one other incident, when Juna is briefly endangered by a pack of predators, are the only examples of action in the entire book.<br />Taken as a whole, &quot;The Color Of Distance&quot; was a good read, but not great. The interplay between Juna and the aliens maintained a level of interest that kept me reading despite the familiarity  of the aliens and the paucity of physical action. It could have been better, though, and I felt a bit let down at the end. As a first encounter tale, it was all too familiar and predictable. Still, relative to other scifi I have read, it was better than average.sh. A foot is lost, but it is regenerated, so no real harm is done. The reader never even &quot;sees&quot; the fish. This and one other incident, when Juna is briefly endangered by a pack of predators, are the only examples of action in the entire book.<br />Taken as a whole, &quot;The Color Of Distance&quot; was a good read, but not great. The interplay between Juna and the aliens maintained a level of interest that kept me reading despite the familiarity  of the aliens and the paucity of physical action. It could have been better, though, and I felt a bit let down at the end. As a first encounter tale, it was all too familiar and predictable. Still, relative to other scifi I have read, it was better than average.	2001-01-17
US	51624230	R1Q1NSVAM8F28W	0446405264	44856664	Twenty Blue Devils (Gideon Oliver Mysteries)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Bone Up On Gourmet Coffee	I always enjoy Gideon Oliver mysteries. The puzzles are always cleverly constructed and full of intriguing details. They also benefit from a nice touch of humor. &quot;Twenty Blue Devils&quot; is no exception. The mystery revolves around a family-run coffee business in Tahiti. Gideon has to figure out the meaning of some curious details on corpses and skeletons to prove that a murder has actually been committed, and then to figure out who's guilty of what. Followers of the Gideon Oliver series will remember that Gideon started as a bachelor, and his sidekick was John Lau, friend and local FBI agent. Then Gideon met and married Julie, and she has increasingly generally become the principal sidekick. John's role has diminished accordingly. This isn't a problem. Julie is a satisfactory character. Sometimes you might miss John, though. I did, anyway. In &quot;Twenty Blue Devils&quot; John makes a nice comeback. It is his family that owns the coffee business, and it is through him that Gideon gets involved in the case. Altogether, this is one of those books that keeps you turning the pages to see what happens next. I always hesitate to give mysteries a five-star rating. In my opinion, few can match Christie and Doyle for plot and characterization. They are my standard. Among current writers, however, Elkins is one of my favorites. And &quot;Twenty Blue Devils&quot; is one of his better tales. I recommend it to anyone who enjoys a good mystery.	2000-12-24
US	51624230	R32WD5QDNLAFA9	0441003850	812928748	Fires of Coventry	Books	3	4	5	N	N	More Of The Same	&quot;The Fires Of Coventry&quot; is Rick Shelley's sequel to &quot;The Buchanan Campaign&quot;. If you read that book, or my review of it, this book is more of the same. Kent, who has also reviewed this book, called it &quot;distant, inconsistant, yet compelling&quot;. I, too, found it distant and inconsistant. I didn't find it very compelling.<br />To give &quot;The Fires Of Coventry&quot; its due, it was fast-paced, and Shelley is a smooth, technically competent writer. His text is very readable and his description of what is happening is clear and easy to follow. And, to his credit, he has gone somewhat further here to develop the local citizens and the plight they find themselves in than he did in &quot;The Buchanan Campaign&quot;.<br />All in all, he has created a platform that could be developed into a good story, but there are several problems with it. The story he has given us is too linear and simplistic. It never goes beyond the purely tactical level of combat. There is no attempt to look at the conflict from a strategic or political perspective. Only once does he mention the cost of the fighting. Further, the basic plot is strikingly similar to the plot of the previous book. Also, as others have pointed out, the Federation enemies are little more than faceless robots. One speaks briefly, early in the story, but otherwise they are faceless and we get no insight into what drives them. Finally, there is the inconsistant technology. These people have huge ships that can leap great distances through &quot;Q-space&quot;, but they fight with rifles and grenades, and nearly run out of bullets. Their landing shuttles are easy to shoot down, but when the &quot;Feddies&quot; land, this core planet with a population of millions of citizens apparently doesn't have even a single small missle to shoot at them. I understand that no invasion was expected, but there is a war going on and it is hard to believe that even the least populated worlds wouldn't have at least a few small missiles for self-defense.<br />There are some readers who will enjoy this. It is a simple and easily readable story with plenty of action. But most, I think, will find it less than satisfying. The story is just too limited and has too many weaknesses in it. Giving it three stars is, perhaps, being a bit generous. I can't recommend it to adult readers.ew small missiles for self-defense.<br />There are some readers who will enjoy this. It is a simple and easily readable story with plenty of action. But most, I think, will find it less than satisfying. The story is just too limited and has too many weaknesses in it. Giving it three stars is, perhaps, being a bit generous. I can't recommend it to adult readers.	2000-12-20
US	51624230	R2IYOAGB3Q63OW	0140441042	497010036	The Early History of Rome: Books I-V of the History of Rome from its Foundation (Penguin Classics) (Bks. 1-5)	Books	5	43	45	N	N	A Most Readable History	Livy was a contemporary of Augustus, Rome's first emperor. Augustus brought peace to Rome and the empire after a lengthy period of civil strife. Though Augustus brought peace by taking power from the corrupt senate and concentrating it in his own hands, it was fashionable among the senatorial class to idealize the old days when they had exercised power. In this vein, Livy wrote his monumental History of Rome with the idea of using what he saw as the old civic virtues of Rome's past as an example to inspire his decadent contemporaries. In this sense, Livy was as much a moralist as he was a historian. But, moralist or historian, he wrote very good books. His stories were probably based on tradition as much as earlier writers. And, when his sources conflicted, he simply chose one account over another. Nevertheless, his work is one of the best surviving sources for the periods he covers, and he relates events in an amusing, instructive, and dramatic manner.<br />Not all of Livy's work has survived. What we have has been divided by this publisher into three parts. This book is the first of the three and covers the period from the founding of Rome to the time of Camillus. Included in this period are many entertaining stories: the flight of Aeneas from Troy to Italy, the founding of Rome by Romulus, the expulsion of the last king, Tarquin, from the city, Horatius defending the bridge over the Tiber, the victory of Cincinnatus, and many others.<br />Though Livy is perhaps not the most rigorous historian, his work makes for fascinating and informative reading. Some of what he relates is clearly mythical in nature, but he was writing for a popular audience and his goal was to entertain as well as inform. After two thousand years, his work still does exactly that. Read this book. I liked it very much, and I think you will, too.	2000-12-09
US	51624230	RUE829ECZ67EN	0449216861	813893591	Silence in Hanover Close (Charlotte & Thomas Pitt Novels)	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	This Is The Pitts	I have read most of the books in this series, so it's plain that I generally enjoy them. Thomas and Charlotte Pitt, along with the others who regularly appear in these stories, are well-developed and plausible characters. By this time, they have become much like old friends and this familiarity adds to their appeal. Perry also does a good job of engaging the interest of the reader by providing mysteries that are intriguing from the start. Also, though I'm not an expert on Victorian London, she seems to do a good job of re-creating that milieu.<br />On the other hand, Perry sometimes makes it plain who the murderer is in her stories by giving you one clearly dysfunctional character. Sometimes, too, her stories virtually turn into morality plays. She will take up some social evil of the period, make it part of her plot, and dwell on it. Finally, Perry has a tendency to end her stories very abruptly, leaving loose ends dangling and making you feeling like you've just stepped off a cliff.<br />This particular installment has all the usual strengths. Charlotte and Emily work to solve the case and save Thomas from a dire fate. The unsolved death of Robert York three years earlier gets Pitt started. The case is re-opened because York's widow is soon to marry a Foreign Office official. York was also with the Foreign Office at the time of his death and some secret papers disappeared at that time, so any possibility of scandal or espionage must be put to rest. During the course of the story, the reader gets a close look at the evils of nineteenth century English prisons, but not more so than fits the story. The mystery deepens as more deaths compicate matters. Perry keeps the reader guessing right up to the end in this one. While the end comes rather abruptly, there aren't too many loose ends in this one, so the reader isn't left hanging so much as in some of Perry's other stories.<br />As a mystery writer, Perry is a step below Conan Doyle or Agatha Christie. Her stories are enjoyable, especially if you've read enough of them to be familiar with the main characters, but the plots aren't usually as difficult to solve. This particular episode, however, is one of her best. A first-rate whodunit that will keep you guessing to the very end. Give it a try.enjoyable, especially if you've read enough of them to be familiar with the main characters, but the plots aren't usually as difficult to solve. This particular episode, however, is one of her best. A first-rate whodunit that will keep you guessing to the very end. Give it a try.	2000-12-03
US	51624230	RW9M5ZGPSZUYF	0441002927	49588169	The Buchanan Campaign	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	Unimaginative	The upside to &quot;The Buchanan Campaign&quot; is that the writing is handled very competently. Dialogue is believable and, as a description of an imaginary military operation, it is very readable. Events are easy to follow and logical.<br />The downside here is that there isn't much of a story. The characters are almost totally one-dimensional. The only personal insights that we get to any of them are that one male fighter pilot has female fighter pilot for a girlfriend and that one of the groundtroops is bitter because he was due for discharge but his discharge was postponed because of the military emergency. The main character among the Buchanan colonists has a wife a child, but neither of them ever utters a single word in the entire book. We know that the enemy &quot;Federation&quot; claims sovereignty over all human-inhabited worlds, but that's all we ever find out about what motivates them, nor do we ever see a single enemy face-to-face despite extensive ground action on the surface of the planet. As for Buchanan itself, it isn't very alien. We encounter only one alien species in the beginning of the story, otherwise the story could take place in a wilderness area on earth. This one species, the hippobary, is remarkably like our hippotamus and plays almost no role in the story. Nor are there any political complications back on the Commonwealth homeworld to make things more interesting. In fact, there is never any contact of any kind between the Commonwealth and the Federation as far as the reader knows.<br />In short, this story is okay as far as it goes, but it doesn't go very far. There are no surprises or twists in this plot. No external complications of any kind intrude into the operation. The story is entirely straightforward and predictable from beginning to end. Something like a scoop of vanilla ice cream -- it's fine if that's what you want, but most people prefer something more interesting. &quot;The Buchanan Campaign&quot; is mediocre at best.	2000-11-27
US	51624230	R2OCY4T3BESM0S	0446405310	443368290	The Pilgrim of Hate (Brother Cadfael Mysteries)	Books	3	1	4	N	Y	Pleasant But Not Captivating	This is the 12th book that I've read in this series. I'm reading them in order, but I read a couple of the later ones before going back to start from the beginning. Like all the others, this one is nicely written. Peters' command of the English language is impressive. Her ability to portray life in 12th century England is also impressive. These stories are good period pieces. I have enjoyed all of the episodes I've read so far.<br />On the other hand, this particular installment is not the most mysterious of Brother cadfael's mysteries that I have read. It is clear from early on who the ordinary ruffians are. It is also clear who is troubled and has questionable motives. It only remains to clarify the relationship between two troubled young men to sort out the mystery. Further, the mystery doesn't have much immediacy for the reader, having taken place a considerable distance away and before the story opens. This story is also a bit &quot;gushier&quot; than most. The romantic angle is played up with a bit too much intensity and there is a &quot;miraculous&quot; healing during the story that fills a whole chapter and does little to further the plot.<br />I enjoyed this book. It was a pleasant and easy read. But, as a mystery, it was only mediocre. If you are a Cadfael fan, enjoy. But, if you're looking for a real whodunit, look elsewhere.	2000-11-10
US	51624230	R384QY0D41YDRV	0061056383	862581106	Foundation's Fears (Second Foundation Trilogy)	Books	2	34	38	N	N	Help For Insomniacs	Normally, I do a lot of my reading on the train (BART for those of you familiar with San Francisco), getting to and from work. An engrossing book keeps me awake and I read it relatively quickly. &quot;Foundation's Fear&quot;, especially the first half of it, set a recond for putting me to sleep. There were days in when I only managed to read a couple of pages. A paragraph or two and I'd be out, even before the train started moving. As others here have pointed out, there is a lot of boring dialogue and description and much of it focuses around the Voltaire and Joan of Arc artificial entities. Hundreds of pages of philosophical noodling and descriptions of imaginary scenes conjured up in cyberspace become numbing.<br />Then there's psycohistory! Asimov used it as a vehicle to further his plot, he didn't try to flesh it out in detail. Benford does, and it just doesn't work on that level. If elaborate statistical analysis worked that well think what it could do to major sports. He also indulges in long-winded detailing of psychohistory's graphical output. This also goes on and on. And there's the imperial government, which is autocratic, but also seems to be subject to democratic constraints at the same time.<br />Benford discusses in the &quot;Afterward&quot; all the considerations involved in extending Asimov's Foundadtion series, and there were many. To his credit, he didn't try to imitate Asimov's style and he introduced technologies not used in the original books. And  some parts of the book are faster-paced and more entertaining. I thought the section on &quot;Panucopia&quot; was the best, but there were other good scenes.<br />This book has it good points and its bad ones. It's two hundred pages too long and there are inconsistencies that are already well-documented by others. On the whole it isn't very satisfying. Those wanting to do the full sequence should be prepared to plod through, others probably should bypass this one altogether.	2000-11-03
US	51624230	R24YOSMUFT22RY	014044145X	756310147	The War with Hannibal: The History of Rome from Its Foundation, Books XXI-XXX (Penguin Classics) (Bks. 21-30)	Books	5	29	33	N	N	Great History By A Great Historian	By any measure, the Second Punic War is one of the most fascinating episodes in history. The audacious invasion of Italy through the Alps (imagine leading elephants through the Alps on foot trails), Rome's defeat at Cannae, The delaying strategy of Fabius Maximus that kept Rome alive while it rebuilt its strength, and Rome's ultimate victory are extraordinary.<br />Livy gives a lively and detailed account. True, this isn't an eyewitness account. He borrowed liberally from Polybius. He also must have had other sources that are long since lost, however, so his telling is his own. He also is known for being pro-Roman. His respect for Hannibal's accomplishments comes through clearly in his narrative, though, and he has no reason to belittle Hannibal or what Hannibal did. It would only belittle the Roman accomplishment in ultimately defeating a formidable foe. Moreover, Livy wrote for a Roman audience familiar with the story, so he must make his work as dramatic as tha material permits.<br />All in all, this is a great story recorded by a consummate historian. It makes for a very interesting and informative read. I recommend it highly.	2000-10-28
US	51624230	R2Q7FHPV2XWQ3M	0553574566	872257758	A Monstrous Regiment of Women	Books	3	13	16	N	Y	A Mixed Bag	This is the followup to &quot;The Beekeeper's Apprentice&quot;. Mary Russell, the bright and wealthy young orphan who becomes the protege of the semi-retired Sherlock Holmes, is a strong and engaging main character. Also, the author seems to have a good grasp of London during this era. As a period piece, it works fairly well.<br />On the other hand, the plot here could be stronger. At times, the case seems to take a back seat to Miss Russell's personal life. Character development is good to an extent, but a mystery plot should never play second fiddle to the detective's emotions. Further, in one engaging part of the story, Margery (one of the main characters) appears to have been the victim of some physical violence under rather mysterious circumstances. The next morning, however, all signs of injury seem to be gone. This opens up some interesting possibilities in the plot and much is made of it. Subsequently, though, this apparently miraculous recovery has little bearing on events. Nor is it ever satisfactorily explained.<br />Finally, if you are a fan of Sherlock Holmes, this isn't him. This Holmes is usually a step late and he is ruled by his passions to a degree that Arthur Conan Doyle would not have recognized.<br />In short, this is a nice period piece, but only a so-so mystery and only a pale shadow of a Holmes story. Much of it is spent dealing with emotions, and feminist concerns of that era are never far below the surface. In general, women will like this book much more than men will. I found it a mediocre effort.	2000-10-17
US	51624230	R242AE08ZG4Q1L	0061057568	541790331	A King of Infinite Space	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A King of Recent SciFi	Alec Tucker was a rather spoiled, thoughtless young man who was killed in an auto accident while driving home from a rock concert. Also in the car with him were his girlfriend, Anna, and his friend Chris. He wakes up about 100 years later to find that he is a slave in a closed environment in space that is ruled by someone called Mr. Chicago. Alec is forced to work hard whether he wants to or not. Bored and lonely, Alec sets out to uncover the fate of his friends. His quest also turns out to be a voyage of discovery, as Alec becomes aware just how selfish and thoughtless he was in his former life.<br />I have read some of Steele's earlier books. Each succeeding effort stuck me as an improvement over the previous one, but I didn't find any of them particularly memorable. All had rather predictable, linear plots. This book, however, is a major leap forward. The premise is interesting and there are plenty of surprises as the plot develops. Alec's persistence in trying to find his friends is illustrative of his personal growth. The ending holds some shocks for Alec. Probably more than he deserves. To me, this shows that Alec turned out to be a better person than others in the story. He seems to get the last laugh, as well, so I didn't find the ending unsatisfying (as some other readers apparently did).<br />This is not a great piece of literature, and if it were in a different genre, I wouldn't have given it five stars. But it was, at least for me, a very enjoyable read. Relative to other scifi that I have read in recent years, it is a standout.	2000-10-13
US	51624230	R3QMBU53DNOUJU	0140441875	877918818	The Civil War of Caesar (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Part Two	This is the concluding half of Caesar's Commentaries, the first half of which appears as &quot;The Conquest of Gaul&quot;. Everything I wrote about that book is also true here. This is a marvelous example of a first-hand historical account of major events written by the major protagonist. A rare and precious thing, to say the least. Caesar wrote his &quot;Commentaries&quot; for the popular consumption of the citizens back home. Propagandist though they may have been in their original purpose, they nevertheless are an accurate account of events and they vividly showcase the talents of their author. Besides being a consumate general and politician, Caesar was also a great speaker, a careful observer, and an outstanding writer. His writing is at once concise, informative and interesting.<br />This book includes three accounts that are thought to have been written by some of Caesar's lieutenants. While this may bring down the quality of the narrative a bit, it is certainly understandable given the human whirlwind that was Caesar during these years. From the crossing of the Rubicon in 49 B.C., where the book begins, Caesar proceeded to occupy Rome, pacify Spain, defeat Pompey at Pharsalus, establish Cleopatra on the throne of Egypt, defeat his opponents at Thapsus, and dispose of the last opposition forces in southern Spain by 45 B.C.<br />A few months after these events, Caesar was assassinated in Rome after assuming the position of &quot;perpetual dictator&quot;. It was argued that Caesar sought to be King of Rome. In fact, however, he was not the first to assume the position of Dictator after emerging successfully from civil strife. Both Marius and Sulla had gained similar powers within the preceding 60 years. For those interested in a fictional, but nevertheless vivid and historically accurate account of this entire period, I suggest Colleen McCullough's series, beginning with &quot;The First Man In Rome&quot; and continuing (so far) through five volumes, the latest of which is entitled &quot;Caesar&quot;. More are planned.<br />As for &quot;The Civil War&quot;, it may not be quite as exciting or compelling as &quot;The Conquest of Gaul&quot;, but it is still excellent reading. And it's all true. Try it. I think you'll like it.of which is entitled &quot;Caesar&quot;. More are planned.<br />As for &quot;The Civil War&quot;, it may not be quite as exciting or compelling as &quot;The Conquest of Gaul&quot;, but it is still excellent reading. And it's all true. Try it. I think you'll like it.	2000-10-11
US	51624230	RG9X4YDH3CCTW	0140444335	679195868	The Conquest of Gaul (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	100	103	N	N	A Masterpiece	This is a genuine historical treasure. Rarely are we fortunate enough to have historical accounts written by eyewitnesses. Caesar was not only an eyewitness, but the lead player. It's as though we had accounts of Alexanders campaigns written by Alexander, himself. Or Charlemagne's life in his own words. And, not only is it a firsthand account, but it is brilliantly written. Caesar's commentaries, whether of the Gallic campaigns or of the Civil War that followed, are considered masterpieces of Latin prose. The writing is concise and straightforward. Caesar's writings are still used today to teach Latin.<br />All the brilliance aside, however, this is also lively and interesting to read. &quot;The Conquest of Gaul&quot; covers the ten-year period of Caesar's proconsulship of Gaul. During those ten years he carried out a series of military campaigns that subdued all of Gaul (Europe west of the Rhine and south to the Pyrenees and Mediterranian), bringing it under Roman rule, while also leading expeditions across the Channel into southeastern Britain. Caesar writes not only of his battles, but also of the tribes he encountered and details of how his own men lived. We see Caesar as the consummate leader, sharing the hardships of his men. He fights in the front lines with them, he marches with them, he eats the same food they eat, and they will follow him anywhere.<br />Caesar's success as a general is a product of several factors. His speed of movement, his effective use of terrain, the absolute loyalty and confidence of his troops, and the relatively advanced engineering skills of the Romans are all used effectively by Caesar.<br />Written to publicize Caesar's Gallic successes among the people back in Rome, these accounts remain as readable today as they were intended to be 2,000 years ago. Given the great bulk of ancient writings that have been lost over the centuries, we are extremely fortunate that these are among those that survived. This is really great stuff. Read it. You'll be glad you did.it. You'll be glad you did.	2000-10-09
US	51624230	R334NTBV2GU6QX	0312206488	80867101	Excalibur (The Warlord Chronicles)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The Last Enchantment	&quot;Excalibur&quot; is the third and final installment in Cornwell's Arthur trilogy. All three books are excellent. Cornwell has taken the mythical Arthur and put him in what is perhaps his true historical setting -- 5th century Britain. In so doing, he brings Arthur, Guinevere and the rest of the characters from the Arthurian legend to life as real people caught up in the events of the time. He does a masterful job of bringing these people to life against a background of war, intrigue, and the crude manners of the period, while adding in a touch of the old magic of the druids and keeping close to the familiar events depicted in the myths.<br />If you are ready to read this book, though, then you should know all this. You should have already read the first two books. If you liked them, this one will not let you down. These books will bring Arthur and his companions alive again in the imagination of anyone who reads them.	2000-10-05
US	51624230	R2N6MF5N8XLK6G	0440234743	934400771	The Testament	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Disappointing...	The idea is an intriguing one. Multi-billionaire Troy Phelan is old and lonely. He built his fortune while neglecting his wives and children. Now, losers all, they are just waiting for him to die so they can divide the money. He has one last surprise in store for them, however. A surprise will leaves everything to an unknown, illegitimate child who lives as a missionary in Brazil. The legal maneuvering as Phelan's lawyer battles the family over the estate is entertaining and satisfying. It's difficult to feel much sympathy for this bunch and their conniving lawyers are even worse.<br />Other aspects of this tale are less satisfactory. The selfless missionary, Rachel, lives in the Pantanal while pursuing her desire to foist her religious convictions off on a bunch of stone age natives. The lawyer sent to find her, Nate, is a weak personality. He, too, has devoted his life to his career while neglecting wives and children. He is also attempting his fourth recovery from binges on drugs and alcohol. Poor Nate! He's stuck in the same rat race as all the rest of us, but he just can't cope.<br />Nate finds Rachel in the Pantanal. The Pantanal is not the Amazon rainforest. It is a huge, swampy area located further south. If you are expecting a jungle adventure, you are in for a disappointment. The journey has its difficulties, but they have more to do with storms and mosquitos than hostile natives and dangerous carnivores. I really didn't find it all that harrowing.<br />Nate is taken with the relaxed pace of life and the natural beauty surrounding him. Who wouldn't be. On the other hand, these laid back people live in sqaulid, miserable conditions. The life is only idyllic as long as you don't get bitten by a poisonous snake or become sick and find yourself in the local hospital. Then it's pretty awful.<br />Nate drifts along, does what he has to, and ultimately comes out smelling like a rose, just as Rachel assures him he will if he just trusts in God. How nice. Pretty hard to swallow, though. If you or I just sat around and waited for everything to come out the way we want, we would end up as homeless people.<br />Grisham is a competant writer, and he does his usual capable job of developing his plot. At times, though, this story is just weak. Rachel, predictably, doesn't want the fortune. She can't even get enough money to buy the drugs she needs to treat the natives, but fails to see the advantages of her good fortune. Understadably, she wants to avoid the complications, but, for someone who really wanted to help people, it wouldn't be hard to find a way around the difficulties.<br />I have read several of Grisham's other books. I have generally found them interesting and fast-paced. This one was often slow, the characters silly, the outcome obvious and too easy.rd to swallow, though. If you or I just sat around and waited for everything to come out the way we want, we would end up as homeless people.<br />Grisham is a competant writer, and he does his usual capable job of developing his plot. At times, though, this story is just weak. Rachel, predictably, doesn't want the fortune. She can't even get enough money to buy the drugs she needs to treat the natives, but fails to see the advantages of her good fortune. Understadably, she wants to avoid the complications, but, for someone who really wanted to help people, it wouldn't be hard to find a way around the difficulties.<br />I have read several of Grisham's other books. I have generally found them interesting and fast-paced. This one was often slow, the characters silly, the outcome obvious and too easy.	2000-09-21
US	51624230	R4DHXV97V52KQ	0441800106	942684623	Tek Lords (Jake Cardigan)	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Oh, Please...	I was given this book as a present by someone who knows I like to read, knows I like scifi, knows I like Star Trek, but doesn't know much about books. Simply put, this is a real dog. The plot is simplistic, the characters are one dimensional, and the dialogue is wooden. The whole thing comes across as clumsy. William Shatner should stick to films and avoid future attempts at singing, writing, and making bad commercials for Priceline.	2000-09-20
US	51624230	R35MK6T0RGMCEW	0312187149	310643527	Enemy of God (The Arthur Books #2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Saga Continues	Enemy of God is the second book of three. The Winter King was the first  book in the series. Everything I wrote in my review of The Winter King  continues to apply here. Having brought peace to the contentious kindoms of  the Britons, Arthur is now faced by hostile Saxons, as well as by factional  strife among the Christian population and personal betrayal. The pagentry  of mythical Camelot is not here. The reality is a squalid and brutal  post-Roman Britain, sliding rapidly into the chaos of the Dark Ages.  Fertile ground for an excellent tale. And Cornwell delivers. This book will  hold your attention from beginning to end. Highly recommended.	2000-09-15
US	51624230	R2T9J7SDXL5GR1	0380789132	599210818	An Exchange of Hostages	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Grim	I read a couple of the other reviews here. They describe this book in  glowing terms and, in many ways, I agree. The depth of characterization is  impressive, as is the masterful way the author deals with the conflicts  that are part of Koscuisko, the main character. I have read both this and  the follow-up, Prisoner of Conscience, and both are very well-conceived and  well-executed. I will not read any more of the books in this series,  though. I read for entertainment. Both Koscuisko and the society that has  produced him are extremely grim, and Koscuisko himself is often a difficult  character to like. Simply put, he is a torturer, and he gets personal and  professional satisfaction out of what he does, despite the conflicts it  causes within him. I have read lots of books and seen many movies that  depict cruelty and/or bloody events. Violence and conflict don't bother me.  Here, however, you get sadism, and it is almost relished. The acceptance of  such brutality is appalling. I found it impossible to like. These books are  emotionally or ethically challenging, and depict squallor and misery to an  almost nauseating degree. I've given them four stars in response to the  depth and quality of the writing, but I don't recommend them for most  readers.	2000-09-07
US	51624230	R322C4SK4N7RTK	0446400335	661187754	Pennies on a Dead Womans Eyes	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A Murky Mystery	This is the 13th &quot;Sharon McCone mystery&quot; I've read, so it goes without saying that I basically find these stories entertaining. This one  has an involved plot about the bloody 1956 murder of a society girl. Lis  Benedict has just been released from prison after serving 36 years for the  crime and her daughter, Judy, has convinced Jack Stuart to take the case  before the Historical Tribunal. Some anonymous threats suggest that  somebody doesn't want the case re-opened.<br />The story kept me turning pages  to find out what would happen next, so it was a good read. There are,  however, a few downsides to this one. Ms. Muller spends a lot of space  trying to give it a dark, mystical mood. What with all the foggy settings,  mysterious shapes, foghorns in the night, and dark forebodings of PI  McCone, the rather unsurprising ending is something of a letdown. Also, Ms.  Muller is a traditional San Francisco liberal, which is her privilege, but  she increasingly wears hers personal attitudes on her sleeve. The story  would have benefitted from having forty or fifty pages of murky scenery and  Ms. Mullers' soapbox preaching edited out. As it is, the story rambles here  and there.<br />That said, it was still good enough to keep my curiosity up  all the way through. Good enough for four stars in my estimation.	2000-08-30
US	51624230	R1C9XY5ZEID3F	0312156960	631070530	The Winter King (The Arthur Books #1)	Books	5	67	70	N	N	A More Realistic Arthur	This is not your traditional King Arthur and the Knights of the Round  Table. Arthur isn't a king, there are no knights and there is no round  table. On the other hand, this is a well-written tale of late 5th century  Britain. The Romans have gone and chaos reigns politically, socially, and  religiously. What real historical record actually exists suggests that a  warlord actually lived who led the fight of the celtic Britons against the  invading Angles and Saxons. Was this Arthur? We'll probably never know, but  Cornwell has taken elements of the traditional Arthur and combined it with  what little is known of the period to produce an engrossing and plausible  story. Some aspects may disappoint fans of the traditional Arthur. For  example, Lancelot is not exactly the great warrior of legend. The book is a  page-turner, though. It will hold your interest all the way through. It  held mine, anyway. As historical fiction, this is some of the best I have  come across. I recommend it highly: 5 stars.	2000-08-25
US	51624230	R151SPA2MH9KDB	0446403830	563467486	Wolf in the Shadows (A Sharon Mccone Mystery)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Mystery or Career Counselling?	It's getting to the point where the ins and outs of life at All Souls  Legal Coop is almost as much a part of the story as whatever case PI Sharon  McCone is investigating. In this particular installment, McCone faces a  career crisis when the &quot;Corporation&quot; wants to promote her to a  desk job as administrator over a proposed staff of investigators and  paralegals. While wrestling with this dilemma, McCone also tries to track  down missing boyfriend Hy Ripinsky, which takes her south to San Diego and  across the border into Mexico. Along the way, we once again meet members of  McCone's real (biological) family. The story meanders a bit, but a tense  climax to the mystery makes the story an entertaining read. The update on  life at All Souls makes it a must for fans.	2000-08-13
US	51624230	R2G4VG765ZB5YR	0446401617	123537184	Where Echoes Live	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Too Many Echoes?	This is not one of Ms. Mullers' best stories. I've actually been through  the Mono Lake area and Bridgeport. I even visited Bodie once. Muller has a  good feel for the locale. On the other hand, the plot here is a bit  straightforward, and the evil Transpacific Corp. is trite. I found the  &quot;explosive&quot; ending rather unsatisfying, as well. Again, this  isn't a bad book. I have enjoyed all of the Sharon McCone mysteries that  I've read so far. But this one is not quite as good as some of the others.  My average rating for these stories is 4 stars. Within that context I put  this one at 4-. A bit below average but still worth the time. Fans will  appreciate the update on the lives of several familiar characters.	2000-08-13
US	51624230	R29KNRTF5HLVSW	0445409169	554636448	The Shape of Dread	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Better Than Average	I have read many of Ms. Muller's Sharon McCone mysteries. While there is, in my opinion, no danger that she will threaten the position of Arthur  Conan Doyal and Agatha Christie at the top of the heap among mystery  writers, I am clearly enjoying these stories or I wouldn't have read so  many of them. Partly, I suppose, this comes from my familiarity with, and  enjoyment of, her characters. McCone and the other denizens of the All  Souls Legal Cooperative are, by now, all like old friends. Also, partly, it  comes from San Francisco and the surrounding Bay Area as the principal  setting for the stories. The scenes she descibes are often familiar and,  thus, easy to visualize. This applies especially to this book, parts of  which are set in the area immediately south of Market Street in an area  near where I once worked for several years.<br />Largely, though, I keep  coming back because Muller writes entertaining stories. This one is no  exception. In fact, I found this one to be somewhat better than her average  story. Some, while still fun to read, aren't too difficult when it comes to  putting your finger on the murderer. But in this one there were plenty of  twists and turns before the story came to its final conclusion. At times,  there was even some doubt about the crime. We have a convicted felon on  death row but is catually Tracy dead? Or had she simply chosen to  disappear? Or is somebody dead, but not Tracy?<br />My general rating for  Sharon McCone mysteries is four stars in Amazon's system. This one I rate  4+.	2000-08-13
US	51624230	RC383BAFFP9AC	0886778506	606237682	Ties of Power (Trade Pact Universe)	Books	3	11	13	N	Y	A Different View	This book is a sequel to &quot;A Thousand Words for Stranger&quot;. As  with that book, this follow-up benefits from some involved plotting and an  avoidance of the &quot;space epic&quot; syndrome. On the other hand, I  found that I had to push myself through the first third of the book, and I  began to ask myself why I was having so much trouble getting into a book  where the characters and the setting were already familiar. It did, as  someone else has observed, supply some answers as to what happened in the  first book. On the other hand, as I wrote of its predecessor, I am not a  fan of stories employing the device of extra-sensory mental powers. Here,  not only does the clan have access to the M'Hir (whatever that is -- we  still don't really know), but a growing number of humans along with other  alien species do, as well. The somewhat overly cutesy Drapsk, in fact, can  build devices to block access to the M'Hir and to monitor it. Pretty  impressive considering that noboby even seems able to define it. It all  begins to feel a bit contrived. The M'Hir is there when it furthers the  plot but blockable (or not available) when it becomes inconvenient.<br />As I  got into the middle of the book, things picked up. Plot threads begin to  come together and the story got more interesting. Unfortunately, as you get  close to the end of the story, the pace again becomes somewhat uneven.  There are some well-drawn confrontations, but other sections read more like  Barbara Cartland doing scifi than like anything that Asimov, Heinlein,  Herbert, LeGuin or McCaffrey would write. At the risk of being branded as a  sexist, much of this book came across to me as the print version of what is  popularly known as a &quot;chick flick&quot;.<br />My conclusion is that this  was an OK book, but not a great one. The action mostly took place on an  undefinable mental plane and  it was very expressive emotionally, but  physical action was sparse. The plotting, while complex, was sometimes  murky and had an overly contrived (I realize that in the final analysis,  all fiction is contrived -- it is a matter of degree) feel to it. I found  parts of it rather tedious and had to push myself to finish it. A mediocre  read, in my estimation.imes  murky and had an overly contrived (I realize that in the final analysis,  all fiction is contrived -- it is a matter of degree) feel to it. I found  parts of it rather tedious and had to push myself to finish it. A mediocre  read, in my estimation.	2000-08-08
US	51624230	R2WV0MSJ8DBWBN	0688093728	540323986	Caesar (Masters of Rome)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	More Truth Than Fiction	Gaius Julius Caesar is one of the most brilliant figures in human history. Not only one of the greatest military commanders who ever lived, but also a consummate politician, a gifted public speaker, and one of the greatest  writers of latin prose ever. He excelled at everything he took up. While no  one can truly say where the genius of a person like Caesar comes from,  McCullough does a good job of portraying Caesar and the other players in  this dramatic period in a way that makes their personalities and actions  clear. And they are all here: Cicero, Cato, Brutus, Cassius, Pompey,  Labienus, Mark Antony and all the rest. And, of course, Caesar. We even get  a brief glimpse of the young Octavius.<br />The writing is very good. The  characters ring true. It's fiction because she invents conversations and  conjures up personal incidents, but it is clearly very well resaerched and  McCullough has thorough command of the factual material she is covering.  She doesn't dwell on the specifics of battles, but prefers to give the  reader events through the interplay of the conflicting characters, bringing  out the impact of both their abilities and their flaws on the  outcome.<br />This is history. It is both fascinating and accurate in its  portrayal of what happened and why. I loved it and would recommend it to  anyone. It is at least as entertaining as any fiction you'll ever read.	2000-07-12
US	51624230	R3I6Z2EWHGRCAG	0886777690	613842763	A Thousand Words for Stranger	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	A Strong First Effort	This is very good scifi. It's not quite Dune or Ringworld, but it is impressive for a first book. Let me start by saying that I am not generally fond of stories that rely on special mental powers (i.e. telepathy) to  further the plot, and in this book, such powers are central to the story.  However, the author sticks to the idea of writing an ordinary story rather  than an apocalyptic description of the ultimate fate of the human race. And  her &quot;ordinary&quot; story is pretty good. It keeps the reader guessing  as to exactly who is doing what to whom right up to the end, with many  twists and turns along the way. Further, her main characters are engaging.  You find yourself rooting for Sira, the main character, as she seeks to  recover the pieces of her missing past and to understand her relationship  to the other principal character, Jason Morgan.<br />The author seems to  subscribe to a &quot;Star Wars&quot; vision of the universe, with  multitudes of alien species (sentient and otherwise) and easy transport and  communication between habitable planets. This may be unrealistic, but for  the purpose of a story, Niven's concept of a gigantic ringworld is the only  thing that surpasses it when it comes to providing an endless opportunity  for cultural and biological variety. All in all, this is entertaining  reading and 4+ stars in my book.	2000-06-20
US	51624230	R141NW5SJUJFML	0140443185	461479261	Rome and the Mediterrean: The History of Rome from Its Foundation, Books 31-45	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Livy Brings Rome to Life	I have been fascinated by Roman history since I was a teenager, and over the years I have read the works of many of the classical historians. Livy has always been among my favorites. A contemporary of Augustus, Livy wrote  a full history of Rome from its beginnings up to his own time. Tragically,  only a portion of his work has survived. This book contains his History  from Rome's legendary beginnings up through 167 B.C. except for books XXI  through XXX, which deal with the war against Hannibal and are published  separately.<br />His source material being necessarily limited, much of the  early history is sketchy. However, Livy seems to draw on as much material,  whether traditional or documentary, as he could muster. Further, he wrote  with the desire to both inform and entertain. His work is lively and  dramatic and he has a knack for vividly portraying the principal  personalities. Like other ancient historians, Livy isn't bashful about  inventing dialogue for his leading protagonists, but this adds an air of  reality to what would otherwise become a dry narrative.<br />This is classical  history at its best and I highly recommend it for anyone with an interest  in ancient Rome.	2000-06-15
US	51624230	RF9FOACB5T79L	0380731622	479178648	Loot	Books	4	13	13	N	N	It Works For Me	I liked this book. Several things about it appealed to me. First, I have come to recognize Elkins as a writer of intelligent and entertaining mysteries, and this one doesn't disappoint on that score. It keeps you  wondering what's really going on right up to the end. The story revolves  around a truckload of art stolen by the Nazis during the War and headed for  storage in the Austrian Alps. The truck disappears from the convoy it is  in, but a painting known to have been on it shows up in a Boston pawn shop  fifty years later. Murder and mayhem ensue.<br />Second, at a time when there  are pseudo-intellectuals trying to white-wash Adolph Hitler and arguing  that the holocaust was a hoax, Elkins presents examples of the horrors  perpetrated by the Nazis on the rest of humanity. The legacy of WW II isn't  something to be taken lightly. Such barbarism is all too common, on a  smaller scale, even today. Witness Milosevic.<br />Finally, I enjoy the quirky  characterers Elkins creates. This book introduces Dr. Benjamin Revere, an  art historian and occaissional investigator. Mysteries aren't characterised  by an emphasis on character development -- the plot is the thing. But, as  Sherlock Holmes, Maud Silver, Gideon Oliver, Perry Mason and many others  have demonstated, a good main mystery character can take on a life of  his/her own over the course of a career. Ben Revere is off to a good start.	2000-06-08
US	51624230	R1WO7L2F6YDME3	0446404284	70661364	The Virgin in the Ice (Brother Cadfael Mysteries)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Another Cadfael Episode	This is another in Ellis Peters' Cadfael series. As period pieces, these books are quite good, and they make an enjoyable read on that basis. Brother Cadfael and the other ongoing Shrewsbury characters are well-drawn  and believable. As mysteries, these stories are engaging if not always  awfully difficult to figure out. Cadfael bases a lot of his sleuthing on  his assessments of the character of other protagonists, which can sometimes  make the plots a bit transparent.<br />Also, keep in mind that the pace of  life was considerably slower in the 12th century than it is today. Nowhere  will you get the urgency or the sometimes frenetic pace of a John Grisham  or Robin Cook tale. This can be a blessing, though.<br />This particular  installment is one of the better ones. It is a good light read for the  general reader and is especially interesting for Brother Cadfael fans  because of the extra insight into earlier events in his life. The who,  what, when and where remain a puzzle until it all gets sorted out at the  end.	2000-06-07
US	51624230	R2H01XQ37G2TED	0812545990	348366267	Starfarers	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Good But Not Great	There is a somewhat unfortunate tendency in the scifi genre to write stories about the ultimate fate of human civilization or the human race. All very serious and apocalyptic, dealing with grand themes. Personally, I  find all this a little weighty. I would much rather read a good, fast-paced  story with a main character that engages my interest and keeps me amused  and/or guessing about what will happen next.<br />This book takes on some  interesting themes and ideas (i.e. the time disparity between high speed  space travelers and the civilization they leave behind, contact with  another intelligent race, and the cultural costs and benefits of extended  space travel), but as often happens, the story is overwhelmed in the  process. It ended up being slow and the action sequences to few and far  between. It was interesting in an intellectual sort of way, but not a real  page-turner. I never felt involved to the point that I just couldn't wait  to find out where it was going. It has some things to say, but I had to  push myself to get through it.	2000-06-01
US	51624230	RA6I8I8F7MLRN	0553571656	899258075	The Beekeeper's Apprentice	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good Read, But Not Doyle	This is a thoroughly enjoyable book, especially if you understand that you're NOT reading Conan Doyle. The problem with taking on a famous character created by someone else is that you inevitably are held up  against the original for comparison. For someone who enjoys mysteries, this  is a good one. I would recommend it. That said, it isn't Arthur Conan  Doyle. Personally, I'm inclined to save 5 star ratings for the very best.  In the mystery field that's Conan Doyle and favorites by Agatha Christie  and a few others. This one, while quite good, isn't THAT good.	2000-04-13
US	51624230	R2DQ3A5ZYSP5SJ	0819562998	433261893	Dhalgren	Books	1	14	28	N	N	Aimless and Boring	I recently read the original paperback edition of this book. It doesn't even qualify as SciFi. There is nothing futuristic about it. The cover of my old edition suggests the sun going nova and the earth about to die, but there is no mention of this in the book.<br /> The entire book revolves around a main character, &quot;Kidd&quot; or &quot;the kid&quot; who can't remember his name. He enters a city that seems to have been partially destroyed by fire, but this isn't really discussed. The sky is always overcast or hazy and nobody can ever see the sky except on two brief occaissions. One night it clears and those who look think they see two moons, but nobody is really sure. One morning the sky is clear and the sun appears gigantic in size, but nobody knows what that means.<br /> Most of the inhabitants have fled the city. Those who remain live aimlessly. When the outside world is mentioned, everything is said to be normal, but there is no contact except when somebody new arrives. Mysteriously, the utilities continue to function, although erratically, but there don't seem to be any phones. People scavenge for food and other necessities, but no one worries that they will run out.<br /> There are a few places in the book where the text is simply senseless; just words strung together that are meaningless. There is no plot, just a sort of rambling series of episodes that don't go anywhere. The last part of the book is dominated by sexual interludes shared by &quot;the Kid&quot; and his girlfriend and boyfriend as a threesome.<br /> If aimless drivel is what you like, go for it. Otherwise, I would recommend avoiding this stinker.	1999-04-16
