US	51621554	R3FBP76RM43U8K	0061006629	388121391	Fatherland	Books	1	22	35	N	N	Could Have Been Great	I love anything to do with WW II, and read both fiction and non-fiction. So when I saw this book, I snatch it up. What an idea, an alternative history. What if Hitler had won the war?    But sadly, that is the only thing of value in this book. What if? The author has a great idea and turns out a tired, cliched diatribe. The writing is flat, for one thing, and the characters are like cardboard. I couldn't care less about Marsh, and the romance with the stereotype American journalist could not have been more forced or cliched.    Plus, we learn very little about life in 1964 in a Germany still ruled by Hitler. We also learn very little about life in the rest of Europe. The author could have developed marvelous sub-plots, such as the Russian rebels still fighting, resistance groups all over Europe trying to sabotage and weaken the Third Reich, and even power struggles within the political hierarchy. Hitler is growing old, who will be his successor? And what of the rest of the world? Did China become Communist? Are they a power? What about the US? We only know that Joseph Kennedy is president, but little else about what is going on there.    And finally, the big secret. Yawn, yawn. Marsh discovers that the Jews of Europe have been killed. Hey, no kidding. You can't exactly keep it a secret that 14 million people have been killed, and certainly, the news would have leaked out a long time ago. You mean, no one in the US, Canada, South America, etc, with Jewish relatives in Europe would have tried to find out anything? No one who escaped from Nazi dominated Europe would have spilled the beans? News was already leaking around 1942-43 that Jews wee being exterminated, for heaven's sakes. Plus, from a literary standpoint, we already \\"know\\" about the Holocaust. Coulnd't the author have thought up something new to surprise the audience with? The \\"climax\\" is so implausible, so cliched, and so boring, one has to wonder why this book was written.     (...)	2005-03-20
US	51621554	R36CY461X43KTB	1932279113	856846010	14 Hours Til Bedtime: A Stay-At-Home Mom's Life in 27 Funny Little Stories	Books	2	3	12	N	N	Kind of Cliched	I was looking for a book to give to a friend who's a new mom, and this book had a cute cover. But after skimming it in the bookstore, I put it back. Singer's humor is so tiring and cliched already, the same tired and well worn cliches over and over again. And being that she seemingly had time to write this book, then she certainly can't be that overwhelmed by motherhood. Also, I realize that humor is subjective, but I just didn't find Singer to be funny.	2005-02-16
US	51621554	R1S5X0TCTV7XJU	1931561648	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	1	13	31	N	N	A great disappointment	I have to say, I was expecting a clever sci-fi type book, with the main character visiting different points in history, and with world events serving as a backdrop. Instead, the shifting in time focused on only a 30 year period, and was restricted to the characters own, narrow lives and history. I mean, how many times can we shift back and forth to--\\"Claire is 10, Henry is 20, Claire is 20, Henry is 28, Claire is 6, Henry is 43\\" and so on.<br /><br />The writing style was also difficult to read, and I found it rather confusing and dull. I was able to muddle past the first 100 pages, and then skimmed, and saw that the story remained basically the same for the next 400 pages. Triple yawn. You can open this book anywhere and start reading, it doesn't seem to matter. I read the ending, which also seemed out of place. Claire is an old woman, and Henry, already dead, is traveling from the past. It doesn't seem that he has done much traveling into the future throughout the book, and is always going into the past. So  now how does he turn up 50 years in the future? And he is surprised to see Claire old, which means that he really hasn't been this way before.<br /><br />Anyway, highly unrecommended. I am amazed at the books which have rose to the ranks of bestsellers, and received so many accoldades, when in fact, they are mediocre, poorly written, and deeply flawed. This book seems like it could be cut in half, and not only lose anything except the verbosity, but become a better story.	2004-09-25
US	51621554	R1VK5U4DXKPLXS	0609809938	187616557	More Like Wrestling: A Novel	Books	1	4	7	N	N	Could not get into it	I really wanted to like this book, because I have met the author and read other things she had written--which were very good. But this book--talk about tedious writing. All of those stream of consciousness, endless babbling about nothing. Switches from past to present, character to character. I couldn't get past the first two or three chapters.	2004-09-18
US	51621554	R1SEFU17H51V4F	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	7	16	N	N	Depressing without a point	I enjoyed the first few chapters of the book, which is why I gave it two stars. The relationship between Astrid and INgrid was intriguing, and certainly, her mother was a fascinating character. But after Ingrid goes to prison and Astrid begins the foster parent cycle, it becomes rather repetitious. And dull. And depressing. Certainly, there are bad foster homes, but all of them? Come on, the bad ones are the exception, not the rule. And Astrid doesn't seem to learn anything, to grow. She was happy at her first home, but she basically disrupted everyone's life there, including the little boys, but she doesn't seem to learn from that. Or feel real guilt over her actions.  <br /> <br />There are no sympathetic female characters in this book at all, no role models. Every stereotype is here, from the hooker, the mean foster mother, the cold mother, the sleazy lawyer...and even Astrid becomes less interesting and less likeable. <br /> <br />Finally, what's the point? We go on a cycle of depressing and tragic situations. There is no redemption, no resolutions, nothing. Every character is so pathetic, even the long lost father. There is no resolution between Astrid and her mother. Are we supposed to feel happy that a convicted murderer is set free? Ingrid is the only one who seems to rise above her circumstances, and look at her. <br /> <br />The ending left you nowhere. Astrid seemed depressed, unhappy, longing for her mother and California.  <br /> <br />A book is not just supposed to be a reflection of real life. A book is supposed to have a point, to tell us something. Characters should grow or have some purpose. This book has none of it. I am surprised at the glowing reviews. This book was one of the most depressing tales I've read in a long time, one without any light at the end of the tunnel.	2004-09-15
US	51621554	R2MQO1QYN3W0LP	0609600699	538317528	Shadows, Fire, Snow: The Life of Tina Modotti	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Dull writing style	I really wanted to read a good book about Tina Modotti, but Albers writing style is so dull, and so flat, I barely made it through chapters. She goes into tedious detail, and I have not gotten any feel at all for Tina. Fortunately, I took the book out of the library, and will return it tomorrow. Perhaps I will try another author, but this is really a great disappointment.	2004-07-24
US	51621554	R1X22Z7NAT70VT	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	1	13	26	N	N	Definitely Overrated	I find it sad when a piece of mediocre literature, such as this book, is exalted to the status of &quot;classic&quot; and it now being spoken of in the same category of other great Southern masterpieces, such as To Kill a Mockingbird.<br />This is merely a simple and silly story without any real plot line, a rather strange view of Southern life in 1964, and stereotyped characters. I give the book one star for the writing, as Kidd does have talent--it just seems that she doesn't know what to do with it.	2004-06-21
US	51621554	R1M39E0KUTNC3B	0425103285	954715892	Mrs. Mike: The Story Of Katherine Mary Flannigan	Books	3	10	24	N	N	History a little flawed	I first read this book as a Reader's Digest condensed book when I was growing up, and remember loving it. This time around, the story seemed a little dated. Maybe it was the writing, I don't know. But what really spoiled the story was the complete inaccuracy on the part of the authors. Yes, I know this is a work of fiction, but it is supposed to be based on a &quot;true story.&quot; So I have to wonder; did the Freemans completely make this up? Or did Kathy Flannigan just tell them a tall tale? Or was her story not exciting enough, so the authors saw fit to fabricate it a bit?<br />I love geography, so I looked at a map as I read about Kathy's journey North, and it was kind of fun. The first part of the book sounds about right, from her journey to Calgary and then to the Northwest Territories with Mike. Then after about a year, they relocate to Grouard, which is where the fiction sets in.<br />According to the Freemans, Grouard, in Northern Alberta, was a wild and primitive place, and Sgt. Mike played the role of doctor, policeman, judge, jury, and whatever else. Uh, I don't think so. By the time that Kathy and Mike arrived in Grouard, it was a bustling town of about 1,000 residents. There were several doctors in the town, including specialists, a whole division of Canadian Mounted police, a skating rink, a department store...need I continue? While still isolated and rough, it was not the town depicted in Mrs. Mike. Certainly, when the diphtheria epidemic broke out, people would have been calling the doctors, not Sgt. Mike! All of the medical problems and injuries described there would have been attended by trained physicians, not Kathy, or Mike. And when Kathy is so stunned to see &quot;motor cars&quot; when she returns to Boston--well, Grouard had two motor cars by 1913. <br />You would think that the Freemans would have either checked up on Kathy Flannigan's story if this is really what she told them, or at least have the sense to make up a fictious &quot;wild&quot; town. It really spoiled the story for me, after I looked up the history of Grouard, and found out that this was all made up. <br />So for anyone picking up this book, it's pure fiction. Not a true story at all.	2004-06-11
US	51621554	R1U0WRRMHH7QP0	0765342308	119454509	Briar Rose	Books	1	15	37	N	N	Uh, Everyone is missing the obvious question	The obvious question to this convoluted tale is why couldn't Gemma just say she'd been in a concentration camp? Why the story? Once the girls were old enough to understand. I mean, they learned about WW II and the Holocaust in school. It wasn't like this was a dark, deep mystery that no one knew about. That was the most ridiculous thing about the book. If Gemma wanted Becca to find \\"Briar Rose\\" then couldn't she just ask her? Or perhaps go back to Poland to find Josef herself? Why did she have to give \\"hints\\" and make this like a treasure hunt? This part made absolutely no sense to me at all, but I guess Yolen needed to make this somehow mysterious, or eerie. <br />Also, didn't Becca's parents have a clue where Gemma was from? Certainly, they knew she was from Poland or Eastern Europe. And it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that if you're Jewish, and you're from Poland, and you arrived in the U.S. following WW II--chances are that you either spent the war hiding, or in a concentration camp! <br />Sorry, but Yolen just stretches the imagination too much, that no one on earth could figure out that Gemma must have gone through some sort of experience, having lived in Europe during the war. And that no one knew anything about her, or could find out anything--hint, public records are available. <br />I am really surprised that none of the reviewers have picked up on this. I'm surprised that Yolen couldn't have found a better ploy to weave this tale with, but the mystery just doesn't work.	2004-05-30
US	51621554	R2YD0MY6DI70SB	080410946X	2981679	Object Lessons	Books	1	6	13	N	N	Silly pointless book	I've been meaning to read some of Anna Quindlan's work, and this one was at the libary, so I thought, why not? Well, all I can say is that if Quindlen wasn't a well known writer, this is the type of manuscript that an editor would toss into the trash.<br />Too many characters, too many POV, to the point where you really got them confused. No plot, no story. The cliches were enough to make you cry, as were the stereotyped characters. The mean and demanding family patriarch, the family feud because a member married someone who wasn't their own kind, the precocious 13 year old girl. None of these characters are really explained, or have any depth. For example, why does Connie start seeing another man? Why is Maggie intrigued with fire? Why is her cousin so mean? And what's with the nun, who was reading Jane Eyre? Whatever was that about?<br />I couldn't wait to return this trash to the library. I seriously thought about just telling the library I had lost it, so no one else would mistakenly take this out, thinking that the Quindlen name means its a decent read.	2004-05-28
US	51621554	RMWCSWJ3BCP2C	0142001740	314504469	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	1	64	76	N	N	Don't Understand the lure of this book	After reading this book, or should I say, trying to read it, I am baffled at its appeal. Monk is a very good writer, but the book is riddled with ridiculous stereotypes characters, no plot, silly \\"twists\\" and an ending suitable for 6th grade literature. Monk's idea of race relations in 1964 South Carolina is pure fantasy--would a black woman really spit on the shoes of the three worst racists in town? Would a black teen drive a white girl around in his car, in a small Southern town--and no one notices?<br />Also very peculiar about this book is how no one seems to have any family or friends. Lily and her father T. Ray appear to live in a world all their own. There are no grandparents, aunts, uncles, cousins--kinda strange for an old southern family. T. Ray has no friends, doesn't date, has not looked at another woman since Lily's mother died? Even Zach, the handsome and bright black teen who Lily meets when she runs away to live with the Calendar sisters. Doesn't he have any family or friends? Surely a boy that good looking, intelligent, witty, and nice would have girls running after him by the dozen. But yet, he seems to have no family, no friends, no one except Lily and the Calendar women. Who does he live with?<br />The middle of the book, which just rambles on and fills space while we wait for the big climax--to find out the relationship between August and Lily's mother--literally put me to sleep. Nothing happens. Just tired and stupid cliches, stereotyped eccentric black southern women, and so on.<br />Anyway, this would have done well as a short story--about 10,000 words. Because there is nothing more to the story. This is a book in dire need of a good editor.	2004-05-21
US	51621554	R2YPZ991UDDO6C	0425188337	620575546	The Search for Joyful: A Mrs. Mike Novel	Books	1	36	39	N	N	Not a sequel to Mrs. Mike	The cover of this book says &quot;The story of Mrs. Mike continues&quot; but that is certainly a stretch of the truth. This is not a sequal to Mrs. Mike, but another story entirely. I wanted to find out what happened to Kathy and Sgt. Mike, after the original story ends. Instead, the story switches over to the Flannigan's adopted daughter, and we get the briefest hint of Mrs. Mike's life from the time the first book ended, until this story begins in 1941. Mrs. Mike barely appears, she is the most minor of characters. Sgt. Mike's death is told in a page and a half, and as a flashback.<br />The story itself, about the daughter, is really bad. I wonder--is this supposed to be a true story as well, or did the Freedman's just make this up? If it's not true, then they have the poorest of imaginations. The story is flat, dull, and the ending about the most ridiculous I've read in a long time. <br />But even if this is the &quot;true&quot; story of Kathy Forquet, then the Freedman's told it in about the most lifeless form possible. The historical backdrop reads like a textbook, you get no feel for the period at all. The characters are flat, emotionless, the diagloge stilted and silly. It is hard to believe that this is the same couple who wrote the original Mrs. Mike.<br />I believe they have a third &quot;Mrs. Mike&quot; story coming out. I tend to guess it will be about the third Kathy, the granddaughter. <br />I would really love them to write a real sequel about Mrs. Mike, or at least, if they feel they must do this family sage, to at least tell us what became of Mrs. Mike. Did she ever return to Boston? What happened to her family? When and where did she die? Even in this book, we never really know how she continued to support herself after her husband died. I would assume she had some sort of pension, but all we know is that he died, and then the story jerks back to the present, and we hear no more of her.	2004-04-13
US	51621554	R1MI71DNBQROFI	0142001740	314504469	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	2	15	25	N	N	YA reading disguised as an adult book	This book is really a young adult novel which is being peddled as adult fare. And it follows the same tired formula that we've all read a thousand times. The main character is an outsider, unpopular, shunned by the popular crowd. She is very smart, in fact, smarter than most adults. She observes everyone around her with a sense of dry humor. And she wants to be a writer. Now, how many stories have followed this plotline?<br />And Kidd doesn't seem to know where to take it. Her rendition of race relations in 1964 South Carolina is a jumbled mess of views--and not very realiztic in most cases. Imagine any black woman with an ounce of sense spitting snuff on the shoes on the 3 worst racists in town. Come on, Sue, what were you thinking? <br />We also have the same tired plot lines of the lost mother, the abandoned child, the mean Southern father--and of course, there has to be the interracial relationship. And amazing at how all of the plot lines are neatly tied up at the end.<br />Kidd has real writing talent, and perhaps she should concentrate on writing young adult fiction. Or non-fiction.	2004-03-13
US	51621554	R295MR4HR6KSB9	0142001740	314504469	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	2	15	19	N	N	Extremely overrated	I gave this book two stars because it started out well and Sue Monk Kidd is a very good writer. However, while she has a way with words, she doesn't seem to know what to do to sustain a story. This book would have done well as a short story, or a 95 page novells--which would have spared Kidd the burden of having to develop her characters or develop a solid plot line. Basically, this is a silly little book, chock full of stereotypes, tired metaphors, pop-psych words of wisdom, and so saturated in honey sweetness that you're ready to barf. If the middle of the book hasn't put you to sleep, that is.<br />If you're into finding the &quot;mother within&quot; then you might like this book. If you want to enter a world where all black people are wise, wonderful, and stereotyped beyond comprehension, then this is your book. It is interesting how weak, nasty, and non-descript all of the white characters are.<br />The main problem with this book is that it went nowhere. The beginning started out well, and then faded into a &quot;we did this, and then we went here, and we got a ride, and we found the house, etc.&quot; There was no plot tension, no twists, no conflict, nothing. The middle of the book is this huge vat of plodding descriptions, metaphors about bees, honey, and mothers, along with a unique form of Catholicism, and just filler, really. The ending is really silly, and Kidd's version of racism in 1960s small town South is pure fantasy (like a white girl and black boy riding around together and no one bats an eye.)<br />I can't believe the press this book got, and how some are already saying its a classic, great southern literature, and so on. Please. This book is severely overhyped.	2004-03-12
US	51621554	RY0O0RUSS9VSX	1573225126	662106244	Prozac Nation	Books	2	20	21	N	N	Somewhat interesting but repetitive	I enjoyed the first few chapters of this book--I liked her writing and her frankness. But then, you start to see a lot of holes in the story. Wurtzel's constant complaint is that they have no money. But yet, she attends private school, lives on the upper West side of Manhattan, goes to Harvard (no mention of who's paying that bill), and just jets around to wherever she wants to go while she's in college. Ooooh, I feel like LA this weekend. Off we go. How about Dallas? These aren't the common problems people without money usually deal with.<br />What was curious is that she skipped her entire high school years. I kept looking to see if I missed something, but oops, Wurtzel forget to put it in. She takes us through middle school, where she's starting to cut her legs, be depressed, and fail in school. She's starting to be a mess. And then all of a sudden, we go from age 12 to Harvard! Umm, what happened in between? How did she manage to get into Harvard? Did she become unpsychotic, pull up her grades, attend high school as a normal girl? Did her depression go on vacation for 4 years, and then come back to her in college? I found this rather distracting, as she gives no information on how she ended up there, and who is paying for her bill.<br />Anyway, I got about 2/3 through and then just stopped because it got repetitive. The same story. There was no growth, no change, Wurtzel didn't seem to want to get rid of her depression. She was now in her early 20s yet acted like the ten year old she was earlier in the book.<br />Judging from the skipped high school years, I tend to think she made a lot of this up. And that really bothered me.	2004-02-11
US	51621554	RWON50GGUR3HF	014029628X	180693945	Girl in Hyacinth Blue	Books	3	7	14	N	N	Good but could be better	Vreeland is a gifted writer, and I read the bulk of this bulk during a flight. I did enjoy it, but gave it only 3 stars because there were several things that I didn't like about it. One, is that the stories were almost overwhelmingly sad and depressing. Someone mentioned that the author wrote this book while she had cancer--well, that all well and good to get your emotions out, but couldn't she have done it in a journal instead? Of 7 stories, 5 of them just take the life out of you. No resolution to them, just despondancy. The other two weren't as sad, but still, the characters suffer loss or are living with unfulfilled dreams. What was the purpose of doing this? To put all readers on Prozac?<br />Second, was that the dates were hard to figure out on some of the stories. She might have just put the date on the top, so we know when it was taking place. In one story, the farmer speaks of \\"this new century\\" so I just assumed, judging from where it was in the book, that is was the beginning of the 20th. But how beginning? Did the story take place in 1900, 1910, 1920? Same for  the story before it. I assumed the date to be early 1800s, trying to piece together the hints the narrator gave, but why not just tell the reader when it takes place. Also, the story of the flood. You don't know it's 1717, or have a clue, until you read the next story, which dates it. Very poor technique.<br />Third, not all of the stories flowed together well. The first two were connected, but then we skip back to presumably, early 20th century, and we have no idea how the owners came by their painting. And then it seems to skip back in time 100 years, and we have no idea what it was doing in between, or who own it. It then skips another 100 years...there is no connection between the  first flood story, the Frenchwoman in the Hague, and then the farmer in the early 20th century. There are approx. 100 year gaps between them, and we have no idea what happened to the painting in between.<br />Fourth, there is no resolution. I was hoping that we would return to the original narrator and find out what Cornelius decides to do with the painting, or if it does officially get declared a Vermeer. The story just ends with the painting being auctioned in 1696, and that's it. There was nothing to tie this all together and made for a very dissatisfying ending.<br />Finally, it is hard to believe that Cornelius would think of burning the painting just because his Nazi father took it from the home of Jews who had been deported. It was a bit melodramatic, that this painting has totally controlled his life.  Yes, his father was a Nazi, and he took the painting. So Cornelius can now turn the painting over to the Dutch government if it torments him so. To preserve his anonymity, and the memory of his father, he can ask someone else to do it. I don't know, there were a lot of ways to deal with this, but the story of the son living a tormented life is just so cliche by now. But at any rate, this book did need a resolution.<br />And the end of the story broke with the backward chronology. The last chapter should have come before the one before it.<br />It's a good book, entertaining, and Vreeland is a good writer. But it leaves you empty because you want to know more about the characters. Perhaps if she had limited the number of stories, and revisted each one several times, it would have been a more satisfying story.	2004-01-26
US	51621554	R2H4DA35GQMNPE	1591133947	426190431	Sell It, Baby! Marketing Angel's 37 Down-to-Earth & Practical How-To's on Marketing, Branding & Sales	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Solid information and an enjoyable read	This book is a must for anyone interested in selling, marketing, and/or branding. It provides a structured step-by-step process for applying total brand management to your own product, no matter what it is. The language is clear, the examples get right to the point--and best of all, the book gets right to the point. I personally can't stand books where you have to weed through pages of fluff to get to the part you want to read. <br />What I also liked is that Kimberly doesn't talk down to the reader. Some people flaunt their expertise, and sound arrogant as they try to give their readers advice. It's grating, and those are the books I usually put down after a few pages, no matter how knowledgeable the author is. But Kimberly has a lively writing style, and appears to enjoy sharing her expertise--without that arrogance or tone of superiority that is often prevalent in these types of books.	2003-12-13
US	51621554	R39LKYJ4DY70PF	038572179X	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	1	50	67	N	N	Totally overrated	I was anxious to read this book, as I love books about the second world war. Plus, this book had received so many accolades.<br />Well, what a major disappointment. This is no masterpiece, or what can even be considered a good book. Part I is so slow, that you are ready to fall asleep by the time the \\"big event\\" occurs. Also, while there is a main character, 13 year old Briony, we are given too many points of view. I kept thinking, come on, can we get on with the story.<br />Now, we have a young man accused of rape, witnessed by a 13 girl. Well, we never know if the woman was actually raped. She never gives her side of the story. And what happened at the trial? Duh, there is no trial. Nada, zilch. Because, then part II opens, and rather than picking up where we left off--with Robbie being taken away, accused of a crime--we are suddenly in the middle of the British retreat at Dunkirk. Page after page of battle descriptions. For what purpose? I began skipping and skipping, hoping to find the story. It seemed odd that part II would center around what was a very minor character, and completely leave out every single detail of his trial and how he ended up in prison. All we know is that he was in prison for the crime that Briony accused him of, and now he's free.<br />Then part III, we meet up again with Briony, who is just as unlikeable as she was in part I. Part III was probably the best of the lot, but you still haven't a clue as to what actually happened. Since when does a person go to prison on the basis of the testimony of a 13 year old girl--who wasn't even the victim!<br />The ending is about as ridiculous as it gets. We are supposed to believe that this whole story we just finished reading is really just a novel that Briony wrote. That's the \\"Clever\\" twist of it. All I can say is that I'm thankful I borrowed it from the library.<br />This is one of those books that is so full of itself, that it pretends to be great and monumentous, but in fact, is very poorly down. This is so much missing, and much of it is so cliche. It makes so much of the great crime, but the crime really isn't all that great because as far as I know, England does have a trial system. A person goes to prison after being put on trial, and not because an obnoxious 13 year old girl says so. We are never told anything at all about how Robbie ended up in prison, or if anyone defended him, or what the victim herself had to say. <br />I felt nothing for any of the characters, except for Briony, who I disliked intensely. This book is just a pompous work where the author writes pages of descriptions that go nowhere, tell you nothing, and leave you wondering when the story will begin.	2003-12-07
US	51621554	R3L1FVSRK7XHJN	0688176496	556965545	Blood: An Epic History of Medicine and Commerce	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Good book but makes many omissions	I borrowed this book from the library to help me with a lengthy article that I am writing on the history of blood banking. If I wasn't doing in-depth research, like combing through medical journals and scientific papers, I would have given this book 5 stars. However, Starr makes many omissions and skips vital facts, and I fail to understand why. For example, he credits Richard Lewisohn with discovering the use of sodium citrate, to keep blood from coagulating. However, nowhere does he mention that Lewisohn was not the first to use it in a successful transfusion. Two doctors published results right before he did, and another one gave a talk to the Nationl Acaademy of Sciences a month before Lewisohn published his results. Lewisohn is credited with finding the perfect formulation, and that is where credit is due. But Starr makes it seem that Lewisohn was the only one doing this research.<br />He completely leaves out the work of Rous and Turner, who first used glucose to expand the life of red blood cells--a necessity in blood banking. He also completely omitted WW I--amazing! That's when the very first blood depot was set up and stored blood was used for the first time.<br />I've found that he has embellished some personalities and downplayed others. He made it sound like no one was doing blood transfusions until Carrel's fateful night when he saved the baby, but in fact, they were being performed.<br />Anyway, this is a good book and I am surprised to find these glaring flaws in it. I found it useful as a background for my research, but I don't understand why he chose to write it this way.	2003-09-29
US	51621554	R2RZWI1CGP4EO8	0786883189	20184336	Surrendering to Motherhood: Losing Your Mind, Finding Your Soul	Books	1	16	23	N	N	Surrendering?	I would hardly call writing books (she has written two others since Motherhood, I believe), going on book promotion tours, and have nannies and household help &quot;surrendering&quot; to motherhood. Please. She has merely shifted gears and is now surrendering to being the stay-at-home mom cheerleader, without any of the discomforts, the problems, or worries that millions of other women face. And just to add, many women would love to be able to stay at home with their children, at least while they are very young, but can't afford to.	2003-09-06
US	51621554	RYVWJRVX67WP8	0375701303	726865659	Breaking Clean	Books	2	7	14	N	N	So Tired of Elusive Endings	I am so weary of both books and movies that don't seem to offer any ending. Is this the artsy style, to let the reader/viewer decide? Anyway, this book has no ending. Breaking Clean is really a poor title because the author gives no indication of why she finally &quot;broke clean.&quot; Yes, she wrote about how hard life was during childhoos and marriage, and all of the inequality, etc, etc, but what happened? Why did she decide to divorce her husband? And how did she manage to get away, being that she had no money, no property, owned nothing? And what about her kids? Didn't her husband care that she was taking his three children away from him and their home? Did her kids want to leave?<br />Perhaps &quot;Life on the Range&quot; might be a better title because we never know what makes the break. We don't need to hear sordid tales of her divorce, but she does need to tell the readers what actually led her to leave her ranch and her husband. Did she actually talk to her husband about her discontent? Did they try to work it out? Did he care that she wanted to leave? The story does leave you high and dry.<br />The writing was good, but I really didn't enjoy it very much. I guess overall, the subject matter just wasn't interesting enough for me to sustain an entire book. If it had been about half and half--half about ranch life which led up to her break, and then about how she made a new life for herself--that would have been more interesting. As it is, how does one go from being a penniless ranch wife to entering the university and ending up with a master's degree? How did she support her children? Did  they see their father? Did they want to stay with her or return home? So many questions, no answers. Why bother to write a memoir if you're just going to give half a story?	2003-02-22
US	51621554	RDW01ZV8D5QGC	0812991605	151268077	Radical Sanity : Commonsense Advice for Uncommon Women	Books	1	22	30	N	N	Has Wurtzel Run Out of Addictions and Problems?	Has Wurtzel's life become--gasp--normal, and does she need to plagarize others? Let's see...\\"It's not that you have to see it to believe it; on the contrary, you have to believe it to see it.\\" I believe that Wayne Dyer wrote a whole book on that concept some years ago. Ah yes, then there's that gem about men doing the dishes. Wasn't Gloria Steinem talking about that, about 40 years ago??? <br />Let's see, if you can make it past all of this radical advice which has been around for decades, there are the contradictions. Wurtzel wants a daughter who won't have to worry about dieting or such mundane things as cellulite, but yet she has a whole chapter on being beautiful. Same thing with love. You should enjoy being single but you still must find Mr. Right.<br />I read through this book at a bookstore. I picked it up because two woman were reading it together and laughing hysterically. I actually found it more pathetic than funny. It is always sad when an author gets this desperate, that they have to rehash other people's work and ideas. Perhaps Ms. Wurtzel needs a higher dose of Prozac, or Ritalin. Or maybe she might offer advice to people, such as herself, who think that the destruction of the World Trade Center was a \\"work of art.\\" Yes, she said it, that watching the towers collapse was a work of art, and she felt absolutely no emotion. How's that for uncommon advice for an uncommon woman?	2003-02-12
US	51621554	R35BLVRXCWZ20A	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	3	11	N	N	Should have stopped while the going was good	I really enjoyed the first part of this book. Many of the other reviewers have already rehashed the story, so I am not going to tell it over again. But basically, the story reached a climax and ended when Ruth May died and the mom decided she'd had enough. She packs up, and takes her remaining daughters on a treacherous journey out of Africa, leaving the preacher dad far behind.<br />This is where Kingsolver should have ended the story. At the very most, maybe added in one short chapter for each of the players, say, ten years into the future, just so we know what happened to them. Another 25 pages at the absolute most. But no, Kingsolver decided to use the next 200 pages to go through the next 30 years, and fill our heads with political blathering. History is supposed to be a backdrop in historical novels, not overtake them. But that is what Kingsolver did. The characters become lost in her political ramblings. It reached the point where I was just skimming to find out what was happening to the characters.<br />The history of the Congo is tragic, that I know. I have read a great deal about the history of Africa, and traveled in Africa, so I am not writing this from the point of an ignoramous. The US and Belgium were much to blame for the course that history took for the worse. But I wanted to read a novel, not a history text. There are plenty of good ones to pick from. What Kingsolver did was divert from her story, and set up her own private soapbox, hoping that she had a captive audience.<br />If the book had ended with the flight of Orleanna and her girls, then I would have given this book 5 stars. Unfortunately, authors like Kingsolver often don't know what to stop while the going is good.	2003-02-04
US	51621554	R1KBLAZN5Y9P55	0929093054	23199470	Ella of All-of-a-Kind Family	Books	2	10	24	N	N	Weak and disappointing	I first read the All of Kind Family series in grade school, and I loved them. But I had never read Ella, which is the final one. I saw the book lying out at the library the other day, and on impulse, I sat down and read it. I must say, it had none of the magic I remember from the other books. And I don't think it's because I'm an adult now--I have reread other favorite childhood stories and they are still wonderful.<br />Anyway, what I found most disappointing was Ella's decision to forgo her singing career to get married. I realize that is what most girls did back then, and I guess the book was originally written in the 1950s (not our most enlightened period) but still, couldn't Ella have been a trail blazer? Couldn't she tell Jules that if he wanted to marry her, then he'd have to agree to her career? It would've been so refreshing, such an inspiration for any girl reading it now. Instead, it made me want to throw up. First her mother lost a chance at a singing career, and now Ella.<br />There's better books for young girls out there. Read the rest of the series, but skip this nonsense.	2003-01-31
US	51621554	RRZL6ZP6HPED9	0060932759	694565872	Daughter of Fortune	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Something to pass the time with	A friend bought me this book because she liked it so much, and I read it on a cross country flight. It was okay, but Allende seems to be losing her touch. The characters were pretty dull, the plot ever duller, and it's obvious that Allende didn't bother to do any research on the era. Are we to believe that Eliza could spend years roaming the gold fields of California disguised as a man, and no one notices? Or suspects? First she passed as a Chinese boy, and now as a full grown man? ....<br />It is also a little unbelievable that she even would take off to find her lost lover, considering how sheltered she's been, and that she is an all around weak character.<br />And the ending just leaves you. The book literally, just ends. We have no closure, no resolution, have no idea what became of any of the characters. Even if Allende had been preparing to write a sequel at the time, every book in a series needs to be able to stand on it's own. And really, who would want to read the sequel of this. One round was enough.	2003-01-24
US	51621554	R2FBOQGUA7PM03	0060936363	632147021	Portrait in Sepia: A Novel	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Too many characters, not enough plot	If Allende was already an established author, this book never would have made it past an editor. We are introduced to the main character, Aurora del Valle, on the first page, and then subjected to a massive flashback which drones on for 95 pages!!! The flashback, unfortunately, is about as dull as it gets, for instead of creating a story, Allende drones on and on with page after page of narration. Telling, not showing, the cardinal sin that writing teachers warn about. Plus she crams the stories of so many characters into these pages, that they just turn into a jumble after a while.<br />Finally, Aurora returns. She is an adult, but instead of moving into the story, we are again subjected to a lengthy narration on her part, and then the story jerks backward again to her childhood. That's when I gave up. Other reviewers say that it gets better once they reach Chile, but I don't want to waste my time. Also, too much in this story was already so contrived. The daughter conveniently dies in childbirth, so we're rid of her. And then Eliza suddenly decides to turn the grandchild Aurora over to her paternal grandmother Paulina because she needs to take her husband's body back to China. And it's decided that she should have no further contact with her mother's family. Come on, what idiocy. Eliza says she can't take care of the little girl. Why not? She has a successful tea shop and the child's adoptive father, who is wealthy, has provided for her. And why can't she just take the girl with her to China? Duh...Contrived plots really grate on my nerves. Surely Allende could have found a better more realistic way of bringing the child into Paulina del Valle's family.<br />While this book was supposed to be somewhat of a sequel to Daughter of Fortune, it really wasn't. That book ended cold, abrupt, without any resolution. Even if a sequel is expected, a story does need to be able to stand on its own. Portrait only minimally tells us what happened to the characters. It rushes through their story, and then tries to push forward with this new addition. However, I think Allende would have had a better book if she had picked up where she left off, and told us Eliza's story, Rose and John Sommer's story, maybe what became of Joaquin Murrieta, and so on...rather than give us a dull 95 page narration and then try to get us involved with a new character.<br />Allende's worst effort--skip it. Read some of her old stuff instead.	2003-01-21
US	51621554	R1JXL9Z5HIA8C0	1931199205	733384188	A Parent's Guide to First Aid	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great comprehensive book	I've been looking for a first aid book to keep in the house, but the others that I've seen are either too skimpy on the information, or make you wade through pages of medical jargon until you can find what you're looking for. The one is concise, easy to read, lets you find exactly what you're looking for, and full of good information. I highly recommend it.	2002-10-11
US	51621554	RLJB5TMLBHARG	1573225126	662106244	Prozac Nation	Books	3	14	19	N	N	Good at first, then drags	I liked the book initially, but then got really bored with it about the time she's attending Harvard. It really just became repetitious, and one page read like the next. Plus, there were a number of blatant inconsistancies. First, she talks about how she started cutting school and flunking in her preteen years. Then voila, here we are at Harvard. High school has been omitted. What happened? Did her depression and insanity leave her for the four years of high school, so she could make good grades and get into Harvard? We're never told what happened--it's a complete omission, which makes me a little suspicious, to put it mildly. Second, she's constantly complaining that she has no money. Duh, private school, then Harvard, then she just jets to Dallas, LA, or whereever, anytime she feels like it. Who's paying for all this? Who's paying for Harvard? Her poverty stricken mother?<br />Somehow, the story just didn't seem right, taking into account these factors. And Wurtzel seemed to be more than just depressed. I noticed that she has written another book about her ritalin addiction. Whatever. I didn't finish the book, and donated to the library abroad a cruise ship.	2002-08-31
US	51621554	R1PCH4K4MOJOXW	0525943684	3168078	Sharmila's Book	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Has Kirchner ever been to India?	I am amazed that Kirchner is supposed to be an Indian who was born in India. It seems that her only concept of the culture are flat sterotypes. If you're interested in books on Indian culture, there are many fine authors to choose from. Kirchner is not one of them. The plot was predictable and silly, the characters flat and predictable--basically, it's Danielle Steele does India.	2002-06-22
US	51621554	R30B96JC19ISML	1580622658	250583926	The $100,000 Writer	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Some good advice, but not worth buying	I started reading this book, and while it seems to have some good points, the writing is pretty bad (strange for a book on writing to be poorly written). She keeps repeating herself over and over, about how successful she is. While trying to inspire, she is also depressing, that it may take years or decades to get yourself established. I don't think so...sounds like she's just trying to make money from this book, yet wants to discourage any new competition! Take my advice and buy the \\"Well Fed Writer\\" by Peter Bowerman. His advice is better, his writing is funny and very readable, and he doesn't speak to the reader like they're a moron. Which Flynn does, by the way.	2002-05-01
US	51621554	R1P9VBBQBKTCIR	185984054X	181218559	The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice	Books	5	553	583	N	N	About time someone dared say it	I have always thought very highly of Mother Theresa, until a few years ago, when I visited one of her clinics on a medical trip. It was a nursery, filled to the brim with pathetic crying babies, or those too scrawny and weak to even move. Many of them lay in urine soaked beds. I started to cry at the sight of their misery, it was just so appalling, and mind you, this is not the first time I have seen sick babies or dire poverty.<br />But what was most shocking was when one of the doctors in my group asked where the money had gone. She apparently had been here last year, and she and others raised $25,000 for this particular nursery--they had sent the money a few months before we arrived to buy cribs, diapers, formula and medicine. The nursery was exactly the same now as it had been a year ago.<br />The sister in charge said something to the effect that they had to give the money to the main MC office--or something like that. They never saw a penny of it. One of the babies died during our visit--of starvation. He could have been saved very easily.<br />My doubts began at that time, and I read more about Mother Theresa, how her nuns were spreading AIDS and hepatitis by using unclean needles in their clinics. You can buy bleach to sterilize needles for just a few pennies, but yet, they didn't even have that. Where then, does the millions go that is donated to this woman and her charity?<br />If she believes that suffering is so holy, then one would think she would have wanted to be treated when she got sick, the same way that the poor are treated. But instead, Mother Theresa got top notch care. I guess when one is on the fast track to sainthood, they don't have to do their penance and suffering like the rest of us.<br />I don't think that she was an evil woman, and maybe she meant to do well at one time. But keeping medical care and food away from the hungry and sick is a crime. She became known for caring for the dying because that's what people did best in her clinic--die. True, many of them lived on the street, and she did offer than food and shelter. However, why allow someone to die when you have the means to save them?<br />I would like to know where all of the money that Mother Theresa got in donations has gone to. If she is a true Christian, she would have returned the donation made by Keating back to its rightful owners, the people he stole it from. But she didn't. She never even acknowledged it, only pleaded for clemency for the criminal who robbed 17,000 people of their life savings. One truly has to wonder about the \\"Christian\\" mind of such a person.<br />At any rate, my personal experience has convinced me that Hitchens is on to something. The sisters were basically doing nothing for these babies, not even holding them. Not even changing the worn cloth diapers that they wore. It was totally disgusting. Just waiting for them to die, what Mother Theresa does best.	2002-02-23
US	51621554	R288PKUW4CR9HW	0449910830	828689024	The All-True Travels and Adventures of Lidie Newton: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	1	7	25	N	N	Now that I've finished the book...	I wrote a review while I was still reading this, and now that I'm done, I've downgraded it to a one star. History is supposed to be a backdrop in historical novels, but in this one, Liddie's monotonous narrative about events and people overwhelms the story. I finally began skipping the long narratives, and don't feel I missed anything. Apparently, it seems that Smiley was more interested in showing off her research than in telling a good story.<br />The second half was really dull. I couldn't really figure out why Liddie pinpointed those certain men as the ones who killed her husband. That was really unclear. Her dressing as a man held promise, but that fizzled out too quickly. Her reasons for not accepting a lift to Independence were entirely unconvincing. Worse yet was the ending. We have Liddie return home finally to Quincy, and then the story suddenly skips ten years to the end of the Civil War. She says that she and Frank spoke of Kansas for the first time--but what was she doing ten years in the future? Where was she living, was she married, or what?<br />All I can say, is I'm glad I bought it used. Better yet, I should've just borrowed it from the library.	2001-10-22
US	51621554	R1OMY3UXF5TWJC	0449910830	828689024	The All-True Travels and Adventures of Lidie Newton: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	2	2	7	N	N	Not what I expected	I'm still reading this book, but it is not what I expected. I thought this would be a story of an adventurous young woman who travels out west and does something--maybe starts a business, opens a saloon, becomes the first female sheriff...instead, she marries and has a man take her to Kansas, and all they're doing is fighting the pro-slave folks from Missouri. In between, she's cooking corncakes and sewing quilts. What happened to the strong woman from the first few chapters?<br />At any rate, I can't keep track of all of the characters that are thrown in. All of their friends in K.T. are completely indistinguishable from one another. I find that I'm skipping paragraphs and even pages of boring dialog and trying to get back to Liddie's story. The history is interesting, but it's getting tiring because it's the same thing repeated over and over again. So maybe I'll read on, because I would like to see some adventure and travels as the title says. But for now, a two star is all its getting.	2001-10-14
US	51621554	R8A8YNCURNWTO	0375504613	440124740	A Short Guide to a Happy Life	Books	1	24	30	N	N	Recycled Psycho Pop Goop	I skimmed this at a bookstore and it took me six minutes flat. I wasn't even finished with my coffee. Amazing, now Anna Quindlen is the new New Age queen, offering the most silly fluff that has been said before, and even stock photography which everyone has seen on Hallmark greeting cards. This is rip-off city. Some of the reviewers said it makes a good gift, but there are much better &quot;little&quot; books out there than this silly thing.	2001-10-02
US	51621554	R1LBJWVIBII2P7	0679733035	859864037	The Lost Father	Books	1	12	16	N	N	Is This Supposed to be a Sequel?	I thought that this was a sequel to Anywhere But Here, but while the story lines parallel, the author (and editor)very annoying changed the characters names, as well as the the main characters hometown. The names are close--Ann August becomes Ann Stevenson, the hometown is changed from Bay City, WI to Racine...but my question is--why???? What was the purpose of it? They are obviously the same characters, and for readers who want to follow the story, it is extremely annoying.<br />But at any rate, changed names or not, this story was far too long. About a third at least could've been clipped, maybe more. And it was just boring. Ann is dull, whiny, obsessed with finding this father of hers. And you wonder, why didn't she start with something simple, like look in the phone book in Los Angeles where he used to live. That's where she ends up finding him. All in all, a waste of time.	2001-09-30
US	51621554	R2UXEZKQQK44OF	0684801051	607441444	Time and Again	Books	2	7	16	N	N	Starts off good then fizzles	I have been wanting to read this book for a while, but was disappointed when I finally got around to it a few weeks ago. I am surprised that all of the people who are marveling at this book's supposed greatness ignore a great big gaping hole in it. This story is supposed to be about time travel via the mind. Well then, how on earth was Si able to just take his girlfriend Kate along on his visit to 1882? Does just dressing up in a 19th century outfit give one that ability? Maybe then we should all try it. It was so ridiculous and so implausible that I nearly stopped reading right then and there. If Si was able to just take Kate along, on the power of his mind, then he could've taken any of the guys he was working for. Dumb, dumb, dumb...<br />Finney uses this ploy again when Si and Julia are trapped in the arm of the Statue of Liberty. Surprise, Si takes them both back to the present. Again, then he should've been taking the whole kit and kaboodle back with him, ie, all of the police who were hot after them. I am really amazed that no one, save one reviewer, has mentioned this.<br />Finney's description also drove me crazy after a while. I am a native New Yorker, and while I enjoyed the descriptions, the detail became nerve wracking after a while. Especially that fire in the World Building--I finally just couldn't read anymore and skipped ahead to where they were out of it. And his break-up with his present day girlfriend was so completely idiotic, when he decides to go live in the past. He tells her something like &quot;it really hasn't worked out for us.&quot; Huh? They had been getting along just fine. He was thinking of marrying her, she went back to the past with him, and she knew nothing of his 1882 girlfriend Julia. Apparently, Finney had no idea what to do with her, so just decided that readers would be stupid enough to think that they'd missed something and the relationship was indeed falling apart.<br />All in all, this book was a good idea that might havesucceeded in the hands of a more skillfull author.	2001-09-25
US	51621554	RBVBSEOPLTF31	0449911519	207158162	The Secret History	Books	3	4	8	N	N	A good read but nothing more	I was unable to do any work in the aftermath of the World Trade Center tragedy, so I bought a novel to take my mind off of it. And this novel does take you to a fantasy land. It was a good book, although 100 pages could have easily been clipped off from it. Also, it seemed that these characters were always drunk, drinking or doing some sort of drugs, and after a while, it started to get tedious reading the descriptions over and over. The story also lacked suspense, as from the prologue, you knew that there had been a murder.<br />What I was also disappointed in was the uneventful role of their mysterious teacher, Julian Morrow. I expected him to have some sort of deep connection to all this, some sort of sinister explanation why all of his students can't take classes with any other teacher, and so on. In short, I expected something more from him, but he barely has any role at all. Just pops up here and there--his reason for being is seemingly just to bring the main characters together.<br />I appreciate the book--it took my mind off the disaster for a few days. It was enjoyable, interesting, but that's it. Certainly not a great book, a classic, or anything that I would ever feel tempted to read again.	2001-09-16
US	51621554	R3FDTUJQFHYBKV	0553565915	210436825	Embraced by the Light: The Most Profound and Complete Near-Death Experience Ever	Books	1	92	113	N	N	Let's See Ms. Eadie's Medical Records	I had seen an interview with Betty Eadie a few years ago, where it was revealed that she has consistantly refused to let anyone view her medical records. If she really did die, then she wouldn't have anything to hide, now would she? However, I gave her the benefit of the doubt, me being into spiritual things. So I read her book. What garbage! As a nurse, I know what happens when a person goes into cardiac arrest, as she claims happened to her. The description she gave of her resuscitation was hilarious. And then the next day the doctor asks her &quot;What happened to you last night?&quot; Is this comedy fiction or what? Later on in the book, she says she went to see the doctor and asked if she really did die that night. He looked up the record and lo and behold, Betty had died.<br />When a patient arrests or codes, as it is called in hospital talk, CPR is begun, a lot of drugs are given, and they usually end up on a ventilator in intensive care. In her case, since she was bleeding from surgery, she would have been taken back to the operating room and opened up again. When she woke up she would've been hooked up to all kinds of monitors and machines, and probably not even able to speak. It's not exactly kept a secret from the patient! People know that they arrested. Only if they were under anesthesia, or in a coma, would they not know that something terrifying was happening to them.This would all be in her medical record if it happened, which it probably didn't. No wonder she doesn't let anyone look.<br />Next, her view of the afterlife. Very Christian in nature, but if this is what happens when everyone dies, what about non-Christians? Do they get to meet Jesus and get converted? Do they get a crash course on the Christian Bible? And armies of angels going off to fight battles? Is this Star Wars, biblical style? Why on earth does God need an army? God is almighty and omnipotent and can do whatever. Angels in armor--I almost choked. And the fact that men rule heaven...hmmm. Twelve men sitting around a table. Do we have such mundane things in heaven as tables? It seems that according to Betty, we still retain our skin and genital organs when we die. I was under the impression that spirits were sexless, that being male and female was a human thing. I wonder if female angels are in charge of serving the coffee to God and washing up the dishes.<br />All in all, this book is a mishmash of Betty's own beliefs, upbringing, and distorted images. Maybe she dreamed she died, or she hallucinated one night. Or maybe she originally wrote this as a novel, and when it didn't sell, decided to pass it off as a real life story.hmmm. Twelve men sitting around a table. Do we have such mundane things in heaven as tables? It seems that according to Betty, we still retain our skin and genital organs when we die. I was under the impression that spirits were sexless, that being male and female was a human thing. I wonder if female angels are in charge of serving the coffee to God and washing up the dishes.<BR>All in all, this book is a mishmash of Betty's own beliefs, upbringing, and distorted images. Maybe she dreamed she died, or she hallucinated one night. Or maybe she originally wrote this as a novel, and when it didn't sell, decided to pass it off as a real life story.	2001-09-07
US	51621554	R1E7MD9KVRDAF6	0553565915	945391274	Embraced by the Light: The Most Profound and Complete Near-Death Experience Ever	Books	1	14	27	N	N	Let's See Ms. Eadie's Medical Records	I had seen an interview with Betty Eadie a few years ago, where it was revealed that she has consistantly refused to let anyone view her medical records. If she really did die, then she wouldn't have anything to hide, now would she? However, I gave her the benefit of the doubt, me being into spiritual things. So I read her book. What garbage! As a nurse, I know what happens when a person goes into cardiac arrest, as she claims happened to her. The description she gave of her resuscitation was hilarious. And then the next day the doctor asks her &quot;What happened to you last night?&quot; Is this comedy fiction or what?<br />When a patient arrests or codes, as it is called in hospital talk, CPR is begun, a lot of drugs are given, and they usually end up on a ventilator in intensive care. In her case, since she was bleeding from surgery, she would have been taken back to the operating room and opened up again. When she woke up she would've been hooked up to all kinds of monitors and machines, and probably not even able to speak. <br />This would all be in her medical record if it happened, which it probably didn't. No wonder she doesn't let anyone look.<br />Next, her view of the afterlife. Very Christian in nature, but if this is what happens when everyone dies, what about non-Christians? Do they get to meet Jesus and get converted? Do they get a crash course on the Christian Bible? And armies of angels going off to fight battles? Is this Star Wars, biblical style? Why on earth does God need an army? God is almighty and omnipotent and can do whatever. Angels in armor--I almost choked. And the fact that men rule heaven...hmmm. Twelve men sitting around a table. Do we have such mundane things in heaven as tables? It seems that according to Betty, we still retain our skin and genital organs when we die. I was under the impression that spirits were sexless, that being male and female was a human thing. I wonder if female angels are in charge of serving the coffee to Godand washing up the dishes.<br />All in all, this book is a mishmash of Betty's own beliefs, upbringing, and distorted images. Maybe she dreamed she died, or she hallucinated one night. Or maybe she originally wrote this as a novel, and when it didn't sell, decided to pass it off as a real life story.	2001-09-07
US	51621554	R2O14EHVRTRQGZ	1550415336	186370223	Into My Mother's Arms	Books	2	0	4	N	N	Artwork is depressing	I was going to buy this book for a colleague who just had a baby girl, thinking it would be nice for them to read it together when the baby was older. However, I was put off by the illustrations. The mother looks very weary in many of the pictures, like she's not have enjoying her daughter at all. It's in sharp contrast to the text. Especially the scene where the girl is taking a bath. She rattling on about how she smells like her mother because she uses mommy's soap, while the mother is sitting there ignoring her and reading a book. Her hair is falling in her face and she looks very weary, like she just can't wait for the kid to finish her bath and get to bed. All in all, I found the artwork rather dreary and it made me tired to look at the mother. Mothers get tired enough chasing after small children, they don't need to read a picture book and see that as well. I don't recommend it, and am really surprised why the reviewer thinks the art is so wonderful. I'd give it a one star but the text is cute.	2001-08-30
US	51621554	R2P9A1WON3GCJ4	0804113351	62926806	Condition Critical	Books	2	5	13	N	N	Forgets Who Nursings worse enemies are	I found the book entertaining, because like Heron, I used to work as a nurse and am now a full time writer. I also lived and worked in the Bay Area, and know the hospital that she writes about. However, Heron seems to find enough people to lash out at, but she seldom mentions that nurses are their own worst enemies. Nurses rarely if ever stand up for themselves, they are great at complaining among themselves but when it comes to doing something about a problem--well, nobody wants to rock the boat. Nurses are great at backstabbing, they don't stick together--in short, nurses are treated without disrespect by doctors and hospital administrators because they tolerate it without a peep. So it always bugs me when high and mighty nurses complain about everyone under the sun except themselves. As for Heron's writing, it is okay but a little melodramatic.	2001-08-20
US	51621554	R2HSFUC65W2QEQ	0590228544	83801078	The Terrorist (Point)	Books	1	13	19	N	N	Terribly racist	I read this book as an adult, as I was reviewing books for a school board. I gave it a pass! This book presents the typical sterotyped view of Muslims as violent, ignorant people--particularly those Muslims from the Arab world. It seems that Cooney got her information about Muslims from reading hysterical media published in the mainstream Western press, and watching movies where Arabs are all depicted as suicidal fanatics. She does not know anything about the religion, and even less about people from other cultures. Of course, there are &quot;bad&quot; Muslims, just as there are bad Jews, Christians, Buddists, etc. But they are a minority, not the majority. It's time that we stop promoting this type of literature. Yes, I know it is fiction, but why waste time reading such trash? Why must the terrorist be a Muslim? Avoid this book.	2001-08-10
US	51621554	R2O3UOW9FXSIGC	1571741941	92563499	Excuse Me, Your Life is Waiting : The Astonishing Power of Feelings	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Absolutely awesome and life changing	This is the only self help one should read, if you really want to change your life. It really tells you why visualization, positive thinking, and the such, often don't work in and of themselves. I loved this book so much, and it has been making such a difference in my life. I have given copies to several people, and they too, have begun to notice changes once they REALLY begin to follow it. Just reading isn't enough, you really have to do it.	2001-07-28
US	51621554	R55Z5V2RYF6YW	0915811898	41314959	Way of the Peaceful Warrior: A Book That Changes Lives	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Just don't understand the hype	I first read this book about ten years ago, and while I thought it was an interesting story, failed to see the point in it. I reread it recently, thinking that now since I had become more &quot;enlightened&quot; maybe I had missed something. I liked it even less than previously. If you're looking for a book that &quot;changes lives&quot; skip this one.	2001-07-21
US	51621554	R2CVNF9ALEETV5	0060929103	816492688	Absolute Beauty: Radiant Skin and Inner Harmony Through the Ancient Secrets of Ayurveda	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Terrific	This is a great book. I have a pitta-vata constitution, and my skin is very sensitive, but can be oily. I made my own face wash using her recipes and it worked quite well. However, I recently ordered her Bindi products, and they are superb for my face. My skin has never felt so smooth and the redness is gone. I think I will continue with them. The book has great recipes and great advice for understanding the whole concept of Ayurveda and not just picking out and using recipes.	2001-07-09
US	51621554	R1B26ECZDSSUTE	0449911594	1665039	Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant: A Novel	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Dull and Just Boring	I am surprised at how many people loved this book and found it great. I found that I really couldn't get involved with any of the characters, and worse yet, Pearl was so downright annoying. There was really no story, just skipping from one character's dull life to the next, and I finally put it down unfinished. A total bore. I gave it two stars because I did like the first chapter, but it seemed to die a quick death from there.	2001-06-06
US	51621554	R1VD9N8HM36FMF	0140298339	597004632	Before You Sleep	Books	2	3	10	N	N	Two stars for effort	I read about a third of it and then quit. I couldn't keep track of the characters or what was even going on. Ullman wanted to give us a character portrayal, but what she gave us was a jumbled mess. I would imagine that if she wasn't the daughter of Ingmar Bergman and Liv Ullman, this book never would have made if off of the slush pile!	2001-05-17
US	51621554	R2S3LUYJHBWSJ7	0835607453	145050889	Mary's Vineyard: Daily Meditations, Readings, and Revelations	Books	5	12	14	N	N	simply wonderful	I have long been interested in the apparitions of Mary, and of those who worshipped her. This book has beautiful photography, filled with quotes about Mary from famous people as well as quotes which are said to have come from Mary herself during apparitions. The book is filled with love and joy--both a warning and promise for the future of our world.	2001-05-17
US	51621554	R3E2T00T6VEI65	0452278821	259287422	Shiva Dancing	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Simply awful	Quite possibly one of the worst books ever written. I suppose that it was published only because the author is an established writer of cook books, so she already has an &quot;in&quot; in publishing. This is not a story of a woman who returns to her girlhood home, as the editorials imply--she only makes it to India at the very end of the book. Instead, this is a driveling soap about the San Francisco computer culture, stupid relationships, and a very stupid main character.	2001-05-14
US	51621554	R224GC72Q188IV	0452278821	259287422	Shiva Dancing	Books	1	6	7	N	N	Totally silly and unbelievable story	If you're interested in a book about Indian culture, or a woman who is torn between cultures, then don't touch this book. If you're interested in formula romance and shallow one dimensional characters that would even make Danielle Steel cringe, then this is the book for you. Contrary to the title and the jacket blurb, this book has little to with India, and even less to do with the main character, Meena, trying to sort out her roots. <br />The first chapter was very promising, beginning with Meena's life in a remote village of Rhajistan and her wedding at age 7 to her best friend Vishnu. Then she is kidnapped by bandits, but she escapes, only to be kidnapped again by an arrogant and snooty American couple who feel that Meena would be much better off as their adopted daughter in America. They refuse to return her to her family and her village. Then the story suddenly moves 28 years into the present, where Meena at age 35 is toying with the idea of returning to India, and finding her lost love Vishnu. Here is where the author first hits us with the first of absolutely nonsensical and unbelievable aspects of the plot. In 28 years, out of deference for her adopted parents (the last of whom, has conveniently just died) Meena has never so much as picked up a pen and tried to send a letter to her family. That stretches the imagination just too far. First, from her descriptions of her adopted family, we get the impression of two arrogant, racist and odious adults who feel that they had captured a primitive Indian and were now going to transform her into a real American. The cruelty described in Meena's flashbacks make you cringe. And certainly, you never get the impression that Meena even liked them, let alone loved them. If anything, you felt that at age 18 she would have rushed out of their house as if it was on fire. The idea that even as a teenager, or living away from her parents at college, or later as an adult, she did not make one attempt to contact her family or goto India. She certainly didn't have to tell her adoptive parents anything, if she was so afraid of &quot;hurting&quot; them.<br />Right then, I should have known the book would be downhill, but I kept reading. The story alternates between Vishnu and Meena, telling what is happening in their lives. Meena is a software whiz, and the story goes on and on about her job, silly coworkers, some idiotic company plot against her, her project COSMOS--it got so that I was wondering when the real story was going to begin--that is, her search for Vishnu and going to India. Instead, I realized that I was almost done with the book, and this really was the story. This was a book about corporate intrigue and computers, and quite honestly, if that's what I wanted, then there are certainly much better books on the market!<br />In between, we get a dose of stereotyped friends, and an arrogant, shallow, totally unlikely hot shot author named Antoine, who Meena fall for. I thought that he was just another obstacle in the story, to make Meena hesitate about pursuing her India dream. But then suddenly, we start getting &quot;Antoine&quot; chapters, as though the author thinks that we are interested enough in this character to want to know about his thoughts and life. Wrong...I skipped the Antoine chapters, hoping that eventually he would just disappear!<br />Then when Meena finally decides to find Vishnu (and it is very near the end of the book), it's done with one swift email to a friend in India. Bingo, Vishnu is found. Very conveniently, she loses her job right at the time she finds Vishnu, so she is free to go off to India. She goes straight to her village, and impatiently asks for her mother. What's the hurry, she's only waited 28 years. She spends about 10 minutes in her village, not even wanting to spend the night, then shoots over to Calcutta to find Vishnu. After spending 10 seconds with him, she realizes that he doesn't excite her, knows exactly what kind of wife he would want,and that India isn't for her. She's been in India all of 48 hours, and probably is exhausted and jetlagged, but yet she can see all of these things. She knows for sure she's American now, as well. And then arrives Antoine, who followed her to India, knows exactly where to find her. He has broken off his engagement, and the two of them fade into the sunset together, to explore India together as two Americans. This story is about as ad nauseum as it gets. <br />This book is about as silly as it gets...all I can say is I'm glad I took it out of the library!	2001-05-13
US	51621554	RQW6QHE84Z5J8	0804113475	376970861	Ladder of Years	Books	1	4	10	N	N	Typical Anne Tyler	After reading Breathing Lessons and St. Maybe, I swore I wouldn't pick up Anne Tyler again. But I took this one out of the library and it sounded intriguing from the book jacket. Well, it was good--seeing a doormat housewife and mother finally just leave--and after the way everyone treated her, they didn't deserve a good-bye. But then Delia just drifts, not even thinking or considering what she would like in life. And the fact that she goes home again to assist in a family crisis, that's when the story really starting getting idiotic, and I started to dislike the character of Delia. And the ending is so bad--is it supposed to be intriguing, for the audience to decide what happens to her? Or do we assume, that this ends the same as other Anne Tyler books--dissatisfying, and leaving the reader totally fed up with the main character. This is the kind of the book where you want the character to come out ahead, and in this case, for Delia to firmly make a statement that she's not going back to her life with her husband and is going to take her life in a new, definite direction. But no, this is just the same old, same old for Anne Tyler.	2001-05-12
US	51621554	R3AD23LV71I5EJ	0451200101	520057645	The Experiment	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Starts out good then fails	I bought this second hand, looking for a novel to read on a rainy afternoon...well, the beginning was good, about the island, but then it just slips away into mediocrity. For one thing, we've seen this plot before. Second, by the first quarter of the book, we already know about the clones and figure out that's what the experiment is all about. So no more suspense. I would expect more from a writer who's won a Pulitzer. With all of his research into this area (and he puts in all of the names in his acknowledgements) one would think he could get some of the science right. Well, for example, Tizzie says that the numbers of identical twins are increasing because of fertility drugs. That is incorrect. The number of fraternal twins is increasing. Fertility drugs increase ovulation, causing more eggs to be fertilized. They do not increase the chances of an egg splitting, which is what happens when identical twins are born. Jude also says that &quot;identical triplets are impossible.&quot; Duh, has he ever heard of the Dionne quintuplets? Five identical girls? This is so sloppy and so basic, that it immediately turned me off. There's no excuse for that.<br />Also, many things didn't make sense. I got the impression that Skylar was still a young teen when he escaped, not a man of 25. It doesn't say how many clones there were on the island, but you get the impression that there were quite a few. With only 3 Orderlies keeping tabs on them, wouldn't it be easy for them to rebel? Several hundred grown men and women against 3 guys, no matter how muscular they were? And if the 3 Orderlies appeared in New York, searching for Skylar, then who was keeping law and order back on the island?<br />This book could have been a lot better, but it wasn't. There were so many silly little discrepancies--I'd read a page and ask why? Or how come? And especially, why didn't the FBI just get rid of Jude when he became a pest? Why give him info and tap his phone? All in all, a very contrived and silly book.	2001-05-09
US	51621554	R19NSWOS15KE2D	0385491026	75368334	Cat's Eye	Books	2	20	26	N	N	First half good, second part really dull	I enjoyed reading the first part of this part, about Elaine's childhood--and could very well relate to the cruely and power plays which do occur among young girls in our society. In fact, I found the chapters which returned to the present an interruption because they just seemed to ramble on. In the present, Elaine has returned to Toronto, her hometown, for an art show, and these chapters just go on and on as she wanders around town in a jogging suit--with her whining about her flab and middle age, checking out how the streets and ambiance has changed. One chapter could have sufficed.<br />The second part was rather disjointed and monotonous. Here Elaine is a young adult, and again, the story switches back and forth between that time and the present. It seems like Atwood suddenly felt she was in a hurry to finish this up. We get no feeling as to what went wrong in her marriage, why they were &quot;throwing things&quot; and what really was going on. It seems that she suddenly remembers she has a brother, and needs to do something about him, so she kills him off. It seemed totally contrived. She does the same thing with her parents. She hasn't meantioned them for a few hundred pages, and all of a sudden, they die off too, in a few pages. Her marriage to her second husband, and birth of a second child is covered in half a page. We get no feel as to how she evolved into this whining, depressing creature who's now wandering the streets of Toronto, moaning about her friendship to Cordelia.<br />Cordelia is another issue. Right at the beginning, it's hinted that there's something really exciting with this Cordelia issue, that some juicy issues are going to be uncovered. But after her initial torment, at age 9 or 10,there's nothing more to it. She becomes friends with her again in high school, Cordelia no longer has power over her. She runs into her once or twice after high school, and that's it. I was waiting for something more, why this obsession with her, but nothing. Igave this book 2 stars because I liked the first part about her childhood and some of her writing is very good, but all in all, a very depressing book that promises something but doesn't deliver. No plot, no &quot;message&quot; nothing to learn from it.	2001-05-06
US	51621554	RPU49PN5H9LTX	042511774X	595375829	Breathing Lessons	Books	1	7	12	N	N	Did this really win a pulitzer?	It is incredible to think that this awful book was awarded a Pulitzer prize. If anything, it should have been awarded a prize for having the most annoying and irritating main character inflicting the pages of a modern novel. Maggie is the kind of person who meddles, interferes, and sometimes helps destroy people's lives, as was evident in her interference between Fiona and Jesse. She reminds me I've people I've known and avoid like the plague. Were we supposed to feel sympathy for her? And we never really understand why she gave up a chance to go to college and make something of herself--instead, she chooses to work as an aid in a nursing home. Nothing wrong with that, but since she had the opportunity, she could have advanced herself into a career where she could provided a greater service to that population. This kind of book, filled with depressing people, unfulfilled lives, and an ending which leaves you even more depressed--that we can read about in the newspaper. In books, there should at least be some sort of message, a lesson, something that gives us food for thought, a resolution.	2001-04-17
US	51621554	R2YN8T89TV7O1E	0804108749	809918350	Saint Maybe	Books	1	8	22	N	N	Depressing and silly	I was amazed, when reading reviews that others wrote in, how many thought that this was a great book. I found it very depressing and unrealistic, how this young 17 year old basically throws his life away for no reason at all. So Daphne commits suicide and her three children are left. Well for starters, Ian's sister, who has a baby every year, could have certainly adopted the little girl. I don't know why that didn't come up. Or for that matter, she could have taken in all three. She could have just held off on having her own for the next three years! His parents were under no obligation to raise Daphne's children from another marriage, and neither was Ian. Or Ian could have gone ahead to college, and then helped out. Gotten a good job and helped pay for a nanny. There were a lot of solutions to this that would have been far more realistic. And then in the end of the story, after Ian has finally finished raising these kids, he meets a women who wants to have her own family. So here's Ian again, with a brand new baby to take care of. I really wanted to gag. If you like depressing stories about martyr characters, then this is the book for you.	2001-04-17
US	51621554	R3VEX46X46TZCA	1582970165	732961209	Writer's Online Marketplace : How & Where to Get Published Online	Books	2	38	39	N	N	A Good Guide for low paying markets	I looked through this book today at a bookstore and found that there were a number of mistakes in the markets. Maybe that was the situation when Ohi wrote the book, I don't know. Also, most of the book was &quot;filler&quot; rather than the markets themselves. I have written a lot for the Web, and a large number of the well paying markets were not mentioned in her book either. In fact, I would say that the overwhelming majority of the sites listed in her book are the very low paying ones. I would recommend the online market guide by Anthony and Paul Tedesco over this one.	2001-03-23
US	51621554	R1KDEPMMBRBZC2	0345384466	470794658	The Witching Hour (Lives of Mayfair Witches)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good but far too long	I loved Rice's descriptions of New Orleans as it is a city that I love. You really felt like you were there. But she could have easily cut about 300 pages out of this book, and not only would you not miss it, the story would have been much better. I enjoyed the historical account of the Mayfair witches at first, but then it just kept repeating over and over, until I finally skipped the rest and got back into the story. I also really didn't like Rowan very much, for some reason. Rice is a very good writer, but she needs to cut down on the verbage.	2001-03-13
US	51621554	R22T4QE0WK30U	0345404319	177964798	Taltos (Lives of Mayfair Witches)	Books	1	22	27	N	N	Thankfully I got this one used	Rowan should have killed Lasher at the end of TWH and then Rice wouldn't have had any reason to write those two awful sequels. I didn't like Lasher, but I hoped Taltos might be better...was I ever wrong. What an idiotic story, so full of contradictions and inconsistancies. You'd think Rice would at least keep track of what she was writing. The Taltos breed at an incredible speed and live for centuries. They can breed when they're just a few hours old, for heaven's sake. So how was it that they were able to live contained in some peaceful little paradise until humans wiped them out? There'd be millions of them in just a few years. They would have overtaken the world at the rate they grow and breed. So it makes no sense that humans wiped them out--it would have been impossible given the lack of technology and weapons of mass destruction. The Taltos could easily have wiped the humans out and it doesn't make sense that they didn't.So the concern that they are going to overpopulate now and wipe out humans is really stupid--if it didn't happen before, how would it happen now? Aside from the incredibly dumb story line, the characters were really weak and unlikeable. You really wish that the Taltos would come and get rid of them.	2001-03-13
US	51621554	R1FLGC6JP8ZTWS	080411109X	207990769	The Hundred Secret Senses	Books	1	7	16	N	N	Here we go once again	I borrowed this book from the library, and am glad I did. How many times can Tan write the same story? How many times can the same stereotypes be repeated over and over again? From reading her books, one certainly gets the impression that she has an intense dislike for Asian men. Surely out of several billion Asian men, there must be at least one decent one! Read the Joy Luck Club if you want to read Tan. It's her best and at least it's original--all the rest are just dull reruns of the same old same old.	2001-03-06
US	51621554	RR0N7UK1RQEI4	0399146431	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	1	10	16	N	N	Here we go again	It seems that when Amy Tan wants to write a book, she pulls out her previous manuscript and then just changes the names of the characters. I really like her writing and it's really a shame that she just can't get past her own life, or whose ever life she keeps repeating over and over again. There's lots of fresh ideas and material out there, but Tan just keeps plugging away at her old and really tiresome formula. This is the last Tan book I will read, unless she truly comes up with something new. Otherwise, why waste time and money rereading something you've already read--what is it, three times over now? I think she's written three other books besides this one, but it gets confusing because they're all nearly identical.	2001-03-05
US	51621554	R3ICIPC8B7T87H	0399146431	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	2	32	48	N	N	Another Saga of the Chinese Mother-Daughter	If this is your first Amy Tan book, then you will probably like it. However, if you've read the others, then this is just a tedious rehash of what she has already written. American born daughter, Chinese born mother. Chinese born mother who struggled in China against horrible men, an unforgiving society, and so on. The story never changes. The American born daughter is always the same in every book, as is the comparison of the two generations. I liked her first book, the Joy Luck Club. That was fresh and original. But then she just repeated it with the Kitchen God's Wife, which was just a continuation and a rehash of the first. I only got halfway through it before it got just too repetitive. I skipped her third book because the plot sounded too familiar. This one I took out of the library, and got about halfway through before I just had to put it to rest. Same story, same characters, just different names. It would be nice if Tan could write something original, instead of this same worn out theme. Unless you're interested in re-re-re-reading the Joy Luck Club, pass this one by.	2001-03-02
US	51621554	R1FOXW48XSX0HR	0684850028	780854713	Write It Down, Make It Happen: Knowing What You Want And Getting It	Books	5	14	15	N	N	It really works	I wrote it down, and it happened. I wrote it down again, and it worked. Okay, its not some sort of magic trick, but writing it down really does help you set your mind on what you really want and what your goals really are. One of the best books I've read on this subject.	2001-02-28
US	51621554	R1TEO9B9NE9BM4	0449213943	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	5	0	1	N	N	One of the best books ever written	Clearly, this is one of the best books ever written. I only wish that I could read German better so that I can read it in its orginal language. The movie (original, 1930) is also superb. Skip the remake (1979).	2001-02-25
US	51621554	RLHC1PK140JZG	1550224077	83702103	Gwyneth Paltrow	Books	1	4	14	N	N	A Bio About What???	I saw this book recently at a bookstore,and I just have to comment--what has Paltrow done to warrent a biography, other than make movies? I am amazed at the zeal in which we worship people whose only claim to fame is that they've made a movie, or modeled lipstick in a magazine. As an actor, her talent is average at best, so the book can't even harp on that. Sorry to Paltrow fans, but this kind of stuff really grates on me. Please go and read bios of people who have made an impact in our world, who have done something great, novel, overcome hardships, etc...	2001-02-25
US	51621554	RU3JWT7A96S5C	0879758554	654786234	The Health Robbers: A Close Look at Quackery in America (Consumer Health Library)	Books	1	16	54	N	N	What a pair of authors	What a pair of authors--Ann Landers writes a newspaper advice column and Stephen Barrett fuels a campaign against alternative medicine. And who are they to talk about quackery? Take a look at quackwatch, which is Barrett's website. It is full of inaccurate information, poor research, and vague references, and even though it's supposed to be exposing quacks, he never mentions the quacks in conventional medicine. And as far as Ann Landers goes, it's too ridiculous to even consider that she's giving advice on what is legitimate health care.	2001-02-13
US	51621554	RL53PSH51WSYF	087975222X	118206173	Vitamin Politics	Books	1	0	8	N	N	Avoid anything with Stephen Barrett's name	If you hope to read accurate, objective and well researched information about anything having to do with vitamins, nutrition, or alternative medicine, AVOID any book with Stephen Barrett's name on it. He is so biased that it makes you squirm, he has no credentials in the field, and his information is extremely poorly researched and inaccurate.	2001-02-13
US	51621554	R1GRLLXHX7F8JN	0803291396	376346594	Captivity of the Oatman Girls	Books	2	9	22	N	N	Inaccurate account	The story is very inaccurate, and was written by a very biased viewpoint. I have read further into the life of Olive Oatman, and while there are many conflicting stories, this one is inaccurate even as far as the tribe who actually captured them. We have to remember that this account was written at a time when all Indians were seen as blood thirsty savages, and the truth was often &quot;Hollywoodized.&quot;	2001-01-29
US	51621554	R39XIN4457K1G6	1582340048	492539730	Cave in the Snow : Tenzin Palmo's Quest for Enlightenment	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Totally Enlightening	I felt that I was gaining enlightenment just by reading this book. Tenzin Palmo is truly extraordinary. This is a great book for anyone, whether or not they are interested in Buddhism.	2001-01-12
US	51621554	R1J3O7QY2F8PYG	0415928133	802174125	Selling the Holocaust: From Auschwitz to Schindler; How History is Bought, Packaged and Sold	Books	5	44	55	N	N	Finally, a book we've been waiting for	Our &quot;love affair&quot; with the Holocaust has gone beyond comprehension, to the point of ignoring all other acts of genocide. Certainly, as Bosnians were being ethnically cleansed, I received an advertisement to donate money to build the American Holocaust Museum which now stands in Washington DC. How about doing something novel, like using the money to help victims of genocide which was happening here and now?<br />The Holocaust has also allowed Israel--besides giving it its reason for being--to operate outside of international law and conduct their own little holocaust on the Palestinians. But shielded by the memory of the Holocaust, they can steal, kill, torture, expell, conquer--do whatever they like because remember, they suffered terribly.<br />Thank you, Mr. Cole, for finally starting to put this into perspective.	2001-01-10
US	51621554	R1JFDTYY422PHI	0609601636	109728861	Personal Renewal: Your Guide to Vitality, Allure, and a Joyful Life Using Healing Herbs, Diet, Movement, and Visualizations	Books	5	7	8	N	N	One of the best!	I read Asian Health Secrets, and then couldn't wait for her next book to come out--and I was not disappointed. This book dispells all the myths about the &quot;normal&quot; way to age, and instead, shows you a whole new way of looking at yourself. And if you need proof that these methods work, try it and see how you feel. And then take a look at how great Letha Hadady looks. She looks about 25 years old.	2000-12-31
US	51621554	R2LIE78XPDKB95	0671026372	483837527	Waltzing the Cat	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Repetitive and Disjointed	I enjoyed her first book, as it seems everyone else did, but it seems that Houston forgot that the Waltzing stories are supposed to be related to eachother--that it's not just a collection of short stories. In the first few tales, we hear that Lucy's happiest moment of childhood was when she was in the hospital, that her parents are extremely dysfunctional and alcoholic. But when you reach the &quot;Waltzing the Cat&quot; chapter, all of a sudden, Lucy says how close she and her mother are, there's no mention of alcohol, that she and her mother have grown closer over the years...huh? Did I miss something?<br />The writing is repetitive, and Lucy seems to go nowhere. It's all well and good to write about one's struggle to overcome the abuses of childhood and toxic parents, but this is a book and I expect something to be happening, not a continuous whining droning on until the end. Nothing happens, Lucy doesn't grow or change or anything...dull dull book.	2000-11-28
US	51621554	R917BGTLGVAKX	0671042572	835489451	Jewel	Books	1	7	9	N	N	Another Oprah Disaster	I bought this book used, to read on a long flight and I have to say, of the 3 Oprah books I've read, I really haven't liked any of them. They are all so DEPRESSING or just downright dull. This one dragged on and on. Yes, a special child like Brenda Kay needs special attention, but not at the cost of your whole family, so I really had no patience for Jewel as far as that went. Second, when times were really hard, why didn't both Jewel and Leston return to working as teachers. She kept saying she went to college and was a teacher--every other sentence in fact--and that was where she had met Leston. So why didn't the two of them get jobs as teachers again, instead of him picking up twigs in the forest and her working in a cafeteria? That part I just didn't get at all.<br />Also, it didn't make sense that she would return to Mississippi with her husband. She has ignorned his needs since Brenda Kay was born, and everything revolved around Brenda Kay, so why would she suddenly pick up and go with him back to a place that was unsuitable for her beloved daughter? Totally out of line with the tone of the book.<br />The best chapter was the last one, where she realizes that she needs to find a place for Brenda Kay to live, as it suddenly dawns on Jewel that she won't be able to take care of her when she dies!  I left the book on the plane, and will stay away from Oprah books.	2000-11-28
US	51621554	R3Q08NFP4TFIWO	0440234743	934400771	The Testament	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Dull with minimal plot	I am very grateful that someone like John Grisham wrote about the plight of Indians in South America--how they have been systematically exterminated and abused by the governments and those with a vested monetary interest in their lands. Even though this is a fiction book, what Grisham writes about the history of the Brazilian natives in factual. Grisham's books are read by millions, so hopefully this means millions will learn this tragic tale.<br />But this is the only reason I gave him two stars, rather than one. The book began intriguingly, but then died an abrupt death. The characters were shallow and dull, and after a point I began skipping the never ending legal interactions between the Phelan children and their lawyers. There was relatively no plot tension, no twists, nothing to really hold a reader's interest. It winds as slowly as that never ending river in Brazil, and creeps along to a really dull and unbelievable ending. And it was just too far fetched to believe that Rachel would turn down the money. Even if she had no interest in it for herself, someone in her position--and who supposedly cares so much about these poor Indians--would have made that 11 billion go to very good use in helping to protect these people. And I'm certain that the organization she worked for would have been very happy to get it as well. Of course in the end, she has a sudden change of heart--Nate, who has been resurrected, suddenly has a new career in charge of the trust (very convenient for someone about to be unemployed), and all is well for everyone else. Very neat, pat, and totally anti-climactic.<br />All in all, a very poor book. If you want to read good Grisham, read The Firm or A Time to Kill.	2000-11-05
US	51621554	R2JETWOZC490WQ	0449910903	543072863	The Messiah Stones	Books	1	4	6	N	N	Glad I took it out from the library	I can only say that I am glad I borrowed the book from the library and didn't waste money on it. A title and subject with promise, but that's where it ends. The characters are interchangeable, the dialog dull and flat. Everything is the story falls into place without a shred of suspense--and you really have to suspend your imagination. How many college professors can just get up and leave their class whenever they want? Their children are conveniently packed up when necessary. And those dream recollections...great for an insomniac to read because they will put you into a deep sleep. The ending gives you no clue as to what the sacred stones are really about...I think the author was probably so bored himself that he just put in a period and said that's the end. I gave this book one star only because Amazon does not permit you to rate in the negatives	2000-10-04
US	51621554	R1WE2UDM110P2O	0140045295	451478495	Sometimes a Great Notion	Books	2	5	22	N	N	Too difficult to get into	This book was recommended to me after I had traveled the Oregon coast, and I was anxious to read the book which so many have termed &quot;the great American novel.&quot; However, I could just not get into the story. Following the point of view is a challenge, to say the least. I couldn't keep track of who was thinking, talking or where we were in the time frame of the story. I am not a reader who likes fluffy kinds of stories, but this one was too much. So disorganized and barely lucid. I also found that after 100 pages, there wasn't one character in the book that I liked, or cared about--that is, if I could figure out who was who. I gave up at page 100. Maybe the idea for the story was a great notion, but I couldn't follow it. I am amazed at all of the people who found this book so great--being that is it so extremely difficult to read.	2000-10-03
US	51621554	R1X5CNIK17PK3S	0345437586	186213588	Healing Mudras: Yoga for Your Hands	Books	5	9	12	N	N	wonderful	The mudras are great and this book is so easy to follow. I guess that I am a little biased because I got to see Sabrina Mesko in person and attend a class--she was great and it really helped me get in the habit of doing mudras. And they really work!	2000-10-03
US	51621554	R11FNX956E6MZM	080410946X	2981679	Object Lessons	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Roxanne	I am so glad that I took this book out of the library and didn't waste  money on it. There was no plot to speak of, the characters were so  sterotyped--Irish Catholics vs Italian Catholics, the domineering  grandfather who conveniently dies...the parents don't use birth control and  dad is shocked when his wife is once again pregnant...yawn, yawn...a silly  and dull book that might have made for a short story--if the author could  throw in a plot somewhere.	2000-08-25
US	51621554	R1QURM8A18EV71	0152373748	616466091	The Hundred Dresses	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Roxanne	I read this book in grade school, and then saw it again in the library, now some 25 years later. I read it through right then and there, and it  brought tears to my eyes. The cruelty that children can sometimes wage upon  eachother is the same now as it was back when this book was first written  in the 1940s. I wonder why books like this are not required reading.  It  seems that most of the truly great children's books I read, I picked up on  my own, and not via the classroom or my teachers.	2000-08-25
US	51621554	R175Z2KW3KR2BK	080410753X	877380177	The Kitchen God's Wife	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Roxanne	I enjoyed the Joy Luck Club so I assumed I would enjoy this one as well.  This book is merely a continuation of the Joy Luck Club-same story of  mother and daughter. Identical, where each one complains about their life,  except, this time it got so tedious as the mother's story went on  endlessly, repeating the same thing over and over again. I finally gave up  about two thirds into it. I was surprised that she hadn't come up with a  fresh idea, and felt the need to continue with the mother-daughter thing.	2000-08-25
US	51621554	R25QSKKUUY9T3F	0844664758	544562029	Rowan Farm	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Roxanne	I read this book in grade school, before I knew much about WW II. I read this book and The Ark rather secretly, because my family and schoolteacher  were of the penchant that the &quot;Germans got what they deserved&quot;  and that German refugees weren't deserving of sympathy. I loved the book  then, but was unable to find anything else that this author had written.  Many years later I came across Rowan Farm in a used bookstore.   Coincidentally, I ended up married to a German man from Berlin, whose  grandparents had suffered terribly during the war and afterwards....I had  also become an amateur historian, specializing in the first half of the  20th century.  Reading Rowan Farm now was a delight, since I could better  understand what was transpiring, and didn't have to read it secretly!  It  should be required reading of schoolchildren, so they can get a more  balanced view of war--that there are no winners or losers, just people who  suffer and endure, and in this case, find love no matter what.	2000-08-24
US	51621554	R2MF6HMTYPFF41	0449910903	543072863	The Messiah Stones	Books	1	4	7	N	N	A fascinating subject but very poorly written	The first chapter held promise, but then it fizzled away.  The characters were drab, undeveloped and just plain boring.  The plot, which could have been exciting and mystical, boiled down to...&quot;and we did this, and  then this, and then that...and then we went here...&quot;  I am amazed that  this book was even published, considering that it lacks suspense, the  slightest drop of plot tension, developed characters, believable  dialog...it reads like a book that every writing teacher and professional  says to avoid.	1999-08-05
US	51621554	R1B9SAGKJ8MX2Z	0151002290	736668502	East of the Mountains	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Disappointing and just plain awful...a waste of time	I loved his first book, and living in Seattle, I eagerly anticipated this book.  That Ben is a doctor who saves lives and heals, and then finds joy in the senseless killing and destruction of nature's creatures did not mesh  well with me.  Add that to the fact the story was lifeless, characters  wooden and interchangeable...I didn't finish the book because quite  frankly, I couldn't care less whether he lived or died.	1999-06-30
US	51621554	RR7Z1GQEBD105	0399142606	932552037	The Magician's Tale	Books	1	0	1	N	N	One of the worst I've read in a long time	This book had no suspense, the characters were flat--in fact,Kay was so flat it made no difference if the author had made hereither a man or woman.  She did seem androgenous, as did everyone in that book.  There was no need to keep repeating about her color blindness--which the author made sure we were aware of on at least every page.  It became clear who the killer was about one third into the book, and then it just dragged on and on--all these boring little sequences about Kay's akido class and her mentor.  It was poorly written and read like a diary.  Also, the author's perception of San Francisco seems way off--walking from the Hall of Justice to Pacific Heights is a long long way, all uphill, not something you do in ten minutes.  He makes it sound like everything in SF is ten minutes apart by foot.  And what woman prowls the streets of rough areas at night, alone, and with an expensive camera around her neck?  Come on, give me a break.	1998-07-07
