US	51620163	R3KYJZHBJV81CG	0345440676	549569088	The Charnel Prince (The Kingdoms of Thorn and Bone, Book 2)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Consistently Good, Entirely Enjoyable	Greg Keyes has been one Author who is not afraid to try different styles. He does character development in an offhand way that almost seems effortless. You don't know every detail about them, but you get invested in their plight nonetheless. In this second installment of the Kingdoms of Thorn and Bone doesn't disappoint giving us another enjoyable well paced book that has enough new elements in it to please the jaded Fantasy reader, and the best part he dosn't make you wait 3 years for a new book. I know it just came out but I am already looking forward to the next installment by this highly recommended and talented author, while you out check out the Waterborn one of the more original books I have read in awhile.	2004-09-03
US	51620163	R327UOPC7QOCIA	0553103237	331407913	Ship of Destiny (Liveship Traders, Book 3)	Books	2	6	9	N	N	High Expectations-Poor Turn Out	I opened the first page of Ship of Destiny with excitement. The first two books had been a refreshingly divergent form of Fantasy. The Characters were well developed, and the plot had been well executed. My only misgiving was that the first two books had been substantially longer than the final installment, and it made me wonder if the story was going to suffer the lack. I had no idea how right I was. More than halfway thru the book none of the storylines were near completion, and I knew that cliche was going to finally take hold on this impressive series. I have had it with unbelievably well tied up endings where even the unfortunate incidents end up contributing to the overall good. I had hoped for much better. I feel another two hundred pages could have made the difference.  This book feels sloppy, rushed and very uninspired compared to its preceeding volumes.  I feel that Robin Hobb has displayed a wonderful creativity and talent for Fantasy writing. I hope that she will live up to the potential she has demonstrated she possesses.  The overall series would rate 4 1/2 stars.	2001-05-02
US	51620163	R1BPWG0UN25QYV	0812508084	829619573	Aisling (Indigo, Book 8)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Fitting Conclusion to an Original Work.	I am sure that anyone who reads this series will approach the concluding book with some trepidation. Being unsure how it will be resolved. Louise actually does a wonderful job of showing how much Anghara has really  changed through the years. What I found to be so incredible was that while  Indigo had been the central character through the first seven books, for  the majority of this book, she becomes a  secobdary character, you are  carried through the events with a different set of eyes. And instead of  feeling alienated, I was engrossed. With this final chapter of Indigo, not  only does Louise Cooper show her superior story telling abilities, but she  manages to achieve a strong ending a conclusion that was as strong as the  preceeding volumes had been. <br />In my opinion the conclusion is the point  where an author shows the mastery of their craft. There are so many stories  that have captivated me only to fall flat at the end with an ending that  didn't do justivce to the quality of the series. <br />If you love fantasy,  read the Indigo Saga. It not only has the magical, but it alsohas the human  elements as well. Her series stays focused from the beginning to the end,  and you as the reader are swept along with it. And what a climax, what an  ending. When I read the cover, and it said &quot;The Stunning Conclusion of  The Indigo Saga&quot; I was sceptical, for once they were right. All of  Louise Cooper's work comes highly recommended, and worth the effort to  find.	2000-02-28
US	51620163	R13EHNGQHTUV1J	0061059900	874356818	Sailing to Sarantium (Sarantine Mosaic, Book 1)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A strong beginning	I found this book to be exceptional, because of what it was, and was not destracted by what it wasn't. Guy Gavriel Kay in Sailing to Sarantium creates a captivating story of an artist, without it flowing quietly into  the depths of cliche. The characters are multifaceted, and he captivates  you with the beauty, love, and power that flow from his writing. He takes a  story that in most author's hands would have come across very boring, and  the fact that Kay pulls it off is a testament to his ability. He even  managed a rather frustrating cliffhanger at the end of the book, what a  place to pause the story. It almost made me wish that I had waited until  all the volumes were out, before I started reading them. In STS Kay's court  intrigue is so complex that at times the monarchs seem almost psychic with  their ability to reason out what is going on in the shadows of their  palace. In most cases this would have made the story seem unrealistic. Guy  Gavriel Kay manages it very well and to astonishing effect.Instead of a  feeling of unreality, I was struck wondering how long Crispin could exist  in such a hostile and duplicitous environment. This book is recommend to  fans of Kay's past work. If you are new to Kay, however, start at the  beginning with The Fionavar Tapestry, and work your way to the present.	2000-02-23
US	51620163	R8H3CO057ZYH6	0812502469	987102876	Inferno (Indigo, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Beauty in the Grotesque	An original plot. Louise really has so many elements in her novels, despite the fact they aren't terribly long. It is easy to over look them. Her look at the pressure to conform in society, fear of man and the  unknown, the effects of religious fanatacism, and how subjectivity can  obscure reality. In Inferno, Indigo finds a religious group falling apart,  literally, from the effects of their new found deity, Charchad. This is  perhaps the most physical demon Indigo faces. The story's resolution is on  par for Louise Cooper, where this book gets outstanding is the powerful,  and nearly overwhelming imagery she creates. As one reviewer noted you can  almost feel the heat, the nacreous glow of decay that the Charchad  emminates you can so easily envision. You can feel the community decaying  as you read. A strong first challenge for Indigo and it really grabs a hold  of you. Plus even though you can feel the evil of the Demon Cooper doesn't  create a derivative demon at all. It isn't growly and melodramatic, it  feels alien and perhaps even insane, but evil nonetheless. Enjoy.	2000-02-22
US	51620163	R38INPY1ZUI5ML	0812534018	893909847	Nemesis: Indigo Book One	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A new world	Even the world Louise created is the reverse of our own. North-South-West-East. This a story of an old civilazation, built upon the rubble of an even older civilization, and all that remains of the past  civilization is it legacy, a solitary tower built by a man whose name is  forgotten. The only things that are remembered of that ancient time, is  preseved in the stones of the tower, and the words of a song. In the song  the people of the new world are warned never to appraoch this tower,  because it is forbidden to mankind. And so untouched, shrouded in mystery  and the scars of the past, the tower reminds each passing generation of the  folly of striving to take to much from the Earth Mother. That is until  Anghara Kaligsdaughter Princess of the Southern Isles, unlocks the secrets  of mankinds past, and opens the door to the destruction of her world. She  then is condemned to repair the ruin she has caused, and until she can do  so, she cannot die, and has to renounce her name and all that goes with it.  <br />An original take on the Pandora's Box myth. Through the eight books that  chronicle her journeys, we see the evolution of her character and the  extent of the burden she carries. As a reader you are as compelled as  Indigo to see the quest followed through to its completion, and you task is  also very difficult. All eight books have been out of print for years, and  copies are scarce. It doesn't help that Louise has many fans look at the  same time as you are. It is well worth the effort. This series comes highly  recommended.	2000-02-22
US	51620163	RABKY767ADY50	0553108034	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Keeps up the pace	Well, I must say I was impressed by the second installment of the Song of Ice and Fire. It kept up the pace of the first book. He continues his fine ability to give us a complex plot with plenty of intrigue. Speaking of  complex just look at all the different angles: The Iron Islands attack, The  ambiguous threat from the north, of course the dragons, and of course the  Baratheon vie for power, the battle of the Starks to reestablish the  independence of the north, and the Lannisters attempt to retain an empire  under a sadistic adolescent. And those are just the major elements. <br />I  love how much duplicity he has in this book, it makes you wonder who is on  whose side. Which I think will play very well into the culmination of this  story. True, there seems to be a lot to be resolved, but up until this  point I see no reason to believe he isn't up to the challenge. I highly  recommend this book and hope that the third installment is not so long in  the waiting. In the interim read Michelle West, another intelligent writer.	2000-02-22
US	51620163	R2FRKYWU70YL40	0812548094	939049888	Stone of Tears	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Persective is important	I have been a reader of fantasy for some time now. I have also been reading reviews by readers  for sometime as well. One thing that is blatantly obvious is that people put far to much importance on Fantasy  writing. Simply put, Fantasy writing is usually based on an author's  particular views, and their associations with history and mythology,  blended together(the names have been changed to protect the innocent). And  emerges under the guise of Escapist literature. I will not criticise  people's positive reviews of books that they have read, because their  opinion is certainly valid for the context in which it is written. My issue  is with the negative reviews that seem to be motivated by anger, like they  have been personally insulted by the author for making them read their  book. Why all of this emotion, get over it. You probably would've wasted  the time somewhere else. Maybe it helps to vent I don't know. I find it  amusing that most of the negative reviewers cannot put together a cohesive  paragraph let alone, 982 pages. I would love to see them attempt writing a  novel. It is easy to throw rocks from down below. I think people need to  remember that Fantasy is not created for a religious experence, it isn't  meant to give spiritual enlightment about the world, it is meant to  entertain, nothing more-nothing less. <br />Onto the book. The Stone of Tears  did resolve a little to quickly in the end, and I didn't care for that  Sisters of Light portion very much-rather dull in my opinion. The bulid up;  however, was very interesting, and I personally liked the darker elements,  I admit it. I am tired of reading about the same old villans commiting the  same crimes, Goodkind's villans seem to mimic the perversity and violence  in our own world. Perhaps that is why some people have a problem with it,  because once you are reminded of the attrocities in your own world the  story is no longer an affective means of escape. I recommend this series  for what it is, anon-groundbreaking enjoyable fantasy with a dash of the  cold realities of evil. Try to ignore the irritating characters, though  none match the most irritating character of all Nynaeve from Wheel of Time.	2000-02-22
US	51620163	R2DPXAJHWZHQWH	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Realism	As a major in Western European history, I was surprised at how close to a real fuedal situation you can find in the The Game of Thrones. Martin is one of the premier writers in Fantasy, and if you are tired of predicatable  good guys always trumhant, you will like this book. As a matter of fact as  you make it through the series you will find that while there are  protagonists and antagonists, this game of thrones has so many players that  there are a lot of grey areas. Martin shows that stories are not entirely  created by the characters, stories are rounded out by them. Martin's  situations, obstacles and resolutions are what make him stand out. He has  written a very original history of his world, although there is perhaps too  much mystery of the rest of globe, realistically there should be more  knowledge carrying from one continent to another. He makes it seem like  spies are the only way to find out any information. I personally don't like  his use of contemporary explitives as well, it takes away from the over all  effect in my opinion. His use of Dragons was interesting; however, not at  all like how most authors portray them, they are not central to the plot  they are accentuating. Which probably describes the whole book. Almost  every part of this book is intrinsic to the success of the plot structure.  Not like most authors who have a central core and then build around it.  Highly recommended as intelligent fantasy.	2000-02-22
US	51620163	R191FW7AO8PN0L	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Some strong suits	As a person who has read the whole series to this point, I have to say that the characters do not progress-at all. Kahlan is always headstrong putting herself in harms way. Zedd makes the same jokes, and Richard always  comes across a little too stubborn and self-righteous. They are somewhat  interesting people, but by remaining stationary characters their behavior  becomes very  predictable.<br />Now for the positive, Goidkind's story is  interesting enough for a paperback purchase. And while the characters are  rather tedious, their situations are rather interesting. The enemies are  acually evil, rather than just being described as being evil. It is one of  the few series' were I am almost more interested in the story prior to the  current situation. This book is a decent setup for the series and is  necessary to follow the rest at least from a plot standpoint. However,  Wizard's First Rule is not my favorite of the series. And as for the  criticism of Terry's description of The short and Long Tailed Gars, I will  say that if it is true that he really likes Tolkien he must be used to an  over abundence of descrition that has very little affect on the storyline.  Read this series if you like Robert Jordan. At least he seems to be staying  on track, although Jordan started his slump with book six, so I guess we'll  see in the next few months.	2000-02-22
US	51620163	R1XFVXIWZH4Q4X	0345285549	238137791	The Elfstones of Shannara (Shannara, No. 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Best by Brooks	Out of all the Terry Brooks' novels, this is my favorite. I feel his potential for plot creation really hit its peak here. His characters were more invlolving on a personal level than ever before. There is just a  powerful level of evil and decay in this book. He really shows his ablility  to create a tense atmosphere that is almost chilling. If you have good  eyesight, I recommend candlelight reading, it just adds to the realism of  certain atmospheres. A solid ride from beginning to end, with a wonderful  resolution. Not a soft sell at all, and only maginally predictable. The  most mature writing that Brooks has ever done. Very strong writing indeed,  and in a single volume. With the superabundence of overwhelmingly lengthy  series Fantasy writers(you know who you are)here is a great book to read in  your downtime while waiting for your next installments.	2000-02-21
US	51620163	RHBC7436NZVZZ	0671877348	126851613	The Changewinds (Baen Science Fiction)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	I got through it	2 stars for me equates to fair, I felt like this world was a little bit two dimensional. I had no interest in what happened to the characters, and athough there were enough original elements to keep the story interesting.  I thought that Jack could've done more with so many pages of content. It  didn't feel like the story progressed, as much as it felt that the  resolution was being delayed. The obstacles were just kind of there. I was  never surprised when something went wrong. I felt that for such an original  world it really didn't have that much majesty, much of the really  interesting elements were aluded to in passing rather than focused on to  enhance the tapestry of the world he was creating. Even Jack's desciption  of our world felt somewhat unreal, and if that was his intention then he  was very effective.  However, it will keep you interested enough that you  can't help but finish it. You will want to know how the story finally  resolves. The ending was somewhat interesting, and I may read other Chalker  novels in the future, if I could be directed to a more well-rounded piece  of literature. Perhaps &quot;The Changewinds&quot; would appeal to fans of  Simon R. Green?	2000-02-21
US	51620163	R2T66HSQH85CQR	0345356365	722626928	3: The Wishsong of Shannara (The Shannara Chronicles)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Entertaining	I unfortunately had one of the major plot twists revealed to me before I read it, which now probably added to my somewhat dissatisfaction with that person and this book. This, however, is not a negative review. I liked some  of the elements of this story very much, but a great deal of the story  reflected similar elements in the first book. Which, granted was probably  intentional. But instead of the series moving forward, I felt I was often  doing a comparison of the first and third book. I really liked some of the  side characters in this book, they added color. Unlike a great deal of epic  or high fantasy where the side characters have no function other then just  rounding out the setting or taking up space. Certainly an entertaining  book, but not the equal of &quot;Elfstones&quot;.	2000-02-21
US	51620163	RREGZBBDOEECU	0345314255	643750532	The Sword of Shannara	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Some Misnomers	Tolkien has one of the most powerful bandwagons in the history of writing. Case in point, so many authors are compared to Tolkien, and most that are compared to him have very little-if no similarities to Tolkien's literary  achievements. For example L.E Modesitt has been compared to Tolkien, I have  never a read another author so unlike the author he/she was compared to. In  my opinoin it is usually an attempt to sell books, and it works because of  the devotion that Tolkien engenders. Although I doubt he would've given his  endorsement to many of the authors that have been compared to him. One I  feel he would've chosen is Guy Gavriel Kay(Also compared to Tolkien,  however, I don't feel there is any comparison outside the fact they can  rivet readers with description as well as action sequences).  I stated  those previous comments for those who gave such a terrible rating to The  Sword of Shannara. First of all, he was highly influenced by Tolkien which  really shouldn't be a bad thing, would you rather he was influenced by a  bad writer? Sure he could have diverged a little more, but remember when  this book came out Tolkien had only become famous recently( about ten years  prior).  Objectively, though, was the Sword of Shannara a bad book? If you  can come up with a valid reason I will capitulate, otherwise I will counter  your arguement. I enjoyed TLOR as much as SOS, I read the TLOR in sixth  grade, and SOS in ninth grade. So if I had to rate according to how Jaded a  reader I was, I would have to say that maybe Brooks was the better.  However, as for originality, my vote has to go to TLOR, preceeding the  Shannara series by a mere fifty years. <br />At this point as far as  recommendations go, my vote goes to Guy Gavriel Kay, read  &quot;Tigana&quot;, very original work. He consistently creats chacters and  situations that are never derivitive. If you are into nostalgia, and old  school high fantasy, please read Brooks and Tolkien, but try to be  objective, Ithink the fantasy world is large enough for the master as well  as his apprentice.	2000-02-21
US	51620163	R31NDPLX5VI7DM	0812508076	387894551	Revenant (Indigo)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A fun read	In Revenent the sixth demon Indigo faces is the most abstract she has faced up until this point. This makes the palpable evil that pervaded the previous books nearly nonexistent in this, despite the haunting cover art,  and the grim title. This is still a wonderful book, and quite original. She  creates an atmosphere of a society so driven to efficiency and the  procuring of wealth, that even their language has been effected. Their  society is tightly regimented, and politeness is used only as far as it  serves their own ulterior motives. What I found to be one of the most  interesting facets, was her ability to make fun and singing and dancing  seem to be evil. I have seen other authors attempt this kind of situation.  It probably has not been done as well since Aldus Huxley in &quot;A Brave  New World&quot;. Louise Cooper again shows her tremedous ablilty to get you  involved in the story. Sadly some of the plot twists I did see coming, but  &quot;Revenant&quot; is still a great book. Sadly, this is one of the more  difficult to find of the Indigo Saga, but it is well worth the effort.	2000-02-18
US	51620163	R1NQB83C4EKRNO	0879516283	881238347	The Gormenghast Novels (Titus Groan / Gormenghast / Titus Alone)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	It's like something out of a dream	If you are looking for a challenging read, something very original that has stood the test of time very well. Do yourself a favor and read Mervyn Peakes' Gormengast novels. With all the detailed description this book  gives you, you almost could come up with an archetechtural drawing of this  gigantic castle. And yet there are very few moments that bog down. He gives  life to some spectacularly original characters, and then couples them with  almost absurd names which do help to lighten the over all atmosphere of the  novels. This book is full of complex rituals, and complicated people.  Everyone is on the verge of madness, or would that be a generous  assessment? This book, though, has a peculiar affect on the imagination. It  makes you feel like your in some sort of dream, because even though you  understand everything, nothing really makes sense. Which mirrors that hazy  dreamlike state where nothing seems real, but you know that it is. The  gormengast novels, are like a hallucination, this book truly takes you away  to another place. If you are looking for a breath of fresh air, and want a  book that is a real escape, read these books, and enter the Groan world.	2000-02-18
US	51620163	R3D2D610ECU6G5	0451454146	217198703	The Innkeeper's Song	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Interesting	A couple of surprises, a dark little love story, plenty of magic, and first person narrative with multiple narrators. How could this book not be fun? It was, rather original, you have to pay attention or the descriptions  can get a bit confusing. Reading it twice might make it more enjoyable. I,  however, wasn't very moved by the book. If you are looking for an enjoyable  story, purely for entertainment, get this book. It was an interesting  story, but the overall affect wasn't terribly strong.	2000-02-18
US	51620163	R10EQTBABU9JXZ	0812506677	55073698	Infanta: Book Three of Indigo	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another  Success	I really would've given Infanta four and one half stars, I figure it will average out with the other reviewers.  Infanta took awhile to get going, and while it was interesting, it wasn't the most captivating intro Louise  Cooper has written. The initial slowness, and the constantly looking for  someone to aid her in her quest are the reasons for the rating. I felt that  Indigo was given this quest, she was told she can't die, so why such  conservatism? Any problems that her rashness would've inflicted on the  people, would easily out weigh the danger of having a demon in their midst.  Objectively, though, I feel that her hesitancy might've been necessary to  round out the story. Because of the nature of this book I will stray from  any details, so as not to ruin any of the surprises.  An overall view on  this book then: In Infanta the demon is far more complex an entity than  Charchad of Inferno, and Indigo is forced to rise to that level. Mystery is  all around Indigo, but there never seems to be a plausible source to turn  to for answers. No Jasker this time. At every turn Indigo is thwarted,  making her goal appear less and less likely to succeed. I found myself  really raking my mind to guess as to how her situation would be resolved.  Infanta once it picks up speed really grabs a hold of you. It is, however,  only one small piece in the puzzle of Indigo. Get all eight books.	2000-02-17
US	51620163	R1ZKRGAL2BJJTR	0679601996	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Modern Library)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A way to live	Out of all the many books that I have read, I would have to say that &quot;The Count of Monte Cristo&quot; is one of the most personally influential books that I have ever read. I had used to have a terrible  temper, but here I saw the value of controling ones rage. Edmond endured a  trial by fire and with inventiveness and unwavering steadfastness was able  to achieve his goals. His revenge in each was a fitting exactment of  justice. I personally love the revenge on Danglers. While the ending was  predictable, I think that was the whole point. Revenge certainly is a dish  better served cold. Anyone looking for an original story, and one that has  obviously insipired many writers of our day. Read &quot;The Count of Monte  Cristo&quot;, and feel that certain power that only a classic novel can  create.	2000-02-17
US	51620163	R1YOMN4QZBJJS6	0856357286	29008117	Algernon Charles Swinburne: Selected Poems (Fyfield Books)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Why is he over looked?	Algernon Charles Swinburne is in my opion the finest english Elizabethian Age Poet. He wrote so much of such a consistently high standard. If you like classical poetry, you owe it to yourself to find this book. Sadly most  books with his poetry in it are in Library bindings, and; therefore,  unaffordable for most individuals.  Find his poetry, and he will create a  new world for you. I can't say enough good things about this writer. His  understanding of human feelings, and our innate kinship with myticism and  shadows are clearly present in his early works. In addition, his meter  formats are among the most intense and intricate I have ever read. If you  claim to enjoy poetry. Do yourself a favor and find Swinburne. Here is a  sample from his work &quot;The Garden of Proserpine&quot;<br />&quot;I am  tired of tears and laughter,/ And men that laugh and weep;/ Of what may  come hereafter/ For men that sow to reap: I am weary of days and hours,/  Blown buds of barren flowers,/ Desires and dreams and powers/ And  everything but sleep.&quot;	2000-02-17
US	51620163	R3FAUO61VQFSO2	0886777941	174092233	Beneath the Vaulted Hills : The River into Darkness	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A good find.	This was the first series by Sean Russell where the back page description and the cover artwork didn't discourage me from investing money in it. To my chagrin Sean Russell is an excellent character developer, I found myself  relating with Erasmus many times during the reading. When they went  underground, I was scared that it would be a weak imitation of Jules Verne.  This is where Sean Russell began to really interest me. Because he created  a very vivid image in my mind of a place shrouded in darkness, and I had no  problem seeing the setting as his characters did. This is due to a rare  occurance, the level of imagery/descriptive writing and the character  development worked vey well together, and so through understanding of the  character, I was able to see their surroundings through their eyes, and not  solely through narrative description. I think that Sean Russell's ability  to keep their situation from getting to monotonous from a readers  perspective really stood out in this book. Read this if you like Guy  Gavriel Kay.	2000-02-17
US	51620163	RWCQYXIQIJGJV	0812507983	346464240	Nocturne: Book Four of Indigo	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Atmospheres	Nocturne is perhaps my favorite chapter in the epic journey of Indigo, although it is hard to pick one.In Nocturne, Louise Cooper blends contrasting elements very effectively. On the one side you have Indigo  joined up with a travling show. Where motleys of colors and myriads of  songs are the norm. But then color starts to depart from the landscape  around them, and in the wake of blighted crops fear starts to grow. It is  here Indigo meets her third demon, and unlike those in the past, her power  takes center stage. This book gives haunting questions of reality, as well  as what is the true nature of fear. With all these elements, it would have  been very easy to fall victim to meaningless cliches. But as any fan of  Louise Cooper will attest, one of her strongest suits is her ability to  take ideas you have seen or heard before, and show them to you in a  completely different way. If you are considering staring a series by Louise  Cooper, make sure you have every book of the series before you start  reading them, or you just might drive yourself crazy in the interim.	2000-02-17
US	51620163	R3DX58B7ETYQ9X	0192810502	5351942	Complete Writings with Variant Readings (Oxford Standard Authors)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Blake-You need it	William Blake is one of the most underrated writers of all time. He is also a wonderful visual artist. Unlike his contemporaries, such as Milton, he created his own Mythology. A complex heirarchy of preternatural beings.  Many people have spent years trying to piece together the puzzle of his  complex philosophy. Any fan of enlish literature, and desire to be  challeged by a writer gifted not only in meter, but also in  content will  be sad that they had not read Blake sooner. He comes very highly  recommended. He affects the way you think. I close with his words:  &quot;Forth from the dead dust, rattling bones to bones/ Join; shaking  convuls'd, the shiv'ring clay breathes,/ And all naked flesh stands:  Fathers and Friends,/ Mothers &amp; Infants, Kings &amp; Warriors.&quot;	2000-02-17
US	51620163	RSWG26E3A3XY8	0395873460	669379389	The Hobbit	Books	3	5	11	N	N	A starting point	While this book is acclaimed as one of the best fantasy novels of all time. I find that the most weighing factor for this is age. Being published in the early 20's, it was certainly a groundbreaking book in its time. At  this point, however, while the book is better then some of what is out  there, it is given far to much esteem. I found the book, superfluously  wordy. The resolution of the plot easy to foresee. And I had a hard time  finishing it, I wasn't filled with wonder. Perhaps this is due to my  reading a great deal of fantasy previous to reading the Hobbit. I feel the  works of HG Wells and Jules Verne have weathered the ages much more  effectively. So I would recommend the Hobbit to adolescents, people who are  interested in getting into fantasy, and those who have a great deal of  patience.	2000-02-16
US	51620163	R1VKQJKL1SXM7D	0812507991	842279081	Troika (Indigo, Book 5)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Low point of a good series	I was surprised to see so many positive reviews of this chapter in the Indigo Saga, while the series was excellent. A wonderful concept carried through very well, this is the one book that falls gravely short. First, in  all of the books save this one, she is desperatly embittered by her  seperation from Fenran. In this book outside of references relating to  internal conflict, he is not present. It is almost as though Indigo forgot  that it was her own foolishness which condemned him to unending torment  until the demons are destroyed. People always seem to focus on how  difficult indigo's struggles are, and while her quest is quite substantial,  she at least has some power over her situation.  She could have at least  had the self-control to avoid any romantic situations. Fenran was supposed  to be the motivator of her quest. A reason for her too succeed, and while a  romantic interlude may please some of her fans, it really undermined the  entire meaning of her quest. If Veness wouldn't have so convienently died  would she have delayed her quest to make a life with him? Louise alluded to  that being the case. The problem with that is obvious.  My other issue with  this book is the Demon itself, out of all the Demons it is the least  delineated. Their is more focus on Nemesis than on the actual Demon she is  destroying. There are no reall characteristics attributed to it, and  frankly its demise was altogther too vague. All you had was an affirmation  that this was the situation. <br />There are also a great deal of timeline  issues. Louise didn't do an effective job of explaining where the demon was  motivating from, was it influencing idividuals, or was it possessing the  artifacts. If it was in the weapons, at what point did the demon take  control over them, because its effect on those that touched them were  consistent with the curse placed on them centuries prior to the release of  the demons from the Tower of Regrets. If it was possessing the people with  the power of vengeance this was only marginally alluded to, because their  motivation could just as easily been covetouness and greed. The book,  however, did keep ones attention and is worth reading, it falls short of  the level usually Louise Cooper ascends to. Read all eight books, and you  can over look this one. Good luck in finding it.	2000-02-16
US	51620163	R3ANTJEE95AQP6	0812508025	385856123	Avatar (Indigo, Book 6)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Back on track	After the somewhat disappointing &quot;Troika&quot;, Louise comes back with one of the strongest books fo the series, a little slow at he outset, the climax and resolution are almost a hundred pages of reading that you  have a hard time putting down. I think Machiavelli would'vwe appreciated  the issue Louise Cooper confronted in regards to powers that be. She also  keeps you guessing, and while a few parts were foreseeable, there were some  good twists to keep it interesting. I feel that Indigo really comes into  her own in this book, and doesn't appear as reckless as she has in the  past. Nice maturation of her character. This book, and the series it is a  part of comes highly recommended.	2000-02-16
US	51620163	R1ZNFMXBEI0W8D	0812533976	565684024	Mirage	Books	5	4	6	N	N	One of the highlights of  a spectacular career	Out of Louise Cooper's mulitudes of novels this is one of my favorites. The atmosphere is incredible, and because you step into the story at the same place as the protagonist, Kyre, every step of the way his world is  revealed to you at the same rate, so you receive the same revelations. It  is a great display of how history can affect the future, but not always in  ways you would expect. If you like novels, that make you regret the story  is over. If you want a challenging book to read that is difficult to put  down, I finished in two days. If you haven't read Louise Cooper before,  Mirage would be a good starting point, and will be your first of many  purchases.	2000-02-16
