US	51636683	R10MCBGK9SNAQ6	1564762424	464403300	The Apostle: A Life of Paul (John Pollock Series)	Books	5	145	149	N	N	Helpful as a Backdrop Before Reading Paul's Epistles	We know some things about Saul of Tarsus (later named the Apostle Paul) but a complete biography is always lacking because of sketchy and incomplete information. Most everything we know from Paul is from the Dr. Luke in the Book of Acts or Paul's epistles themselves.  II Peter Chapter 3 makes some very intriguing statements.  Peter, in some of his last earthly words before martyrdom, validates Paul's apostleship and states that some of his writings and teachings are difficult but that we should follow them.  <br /> <br />Pollock's book is presented as documentary-style reading since Paul's complete biography is not entirely clear.  There is much the author states is inference or speculation. If you can respect that and not build doctrine and facts on where the evidence is fuzzy, I think this is an excellent book. <br /> <br />One example of \\"fuzzy\\" facts that Pollock considers is the age-old controversy over the authorship of the Book of Hebrews.  The author of Hebrews does not identify himself and scholars argue who wrote it.  Pollock speculates that Paul, while imprisioned in Acts Ch. 24 for two years may have had time and motivation to write the book to the people he so desparately wanted to reach.  With his imprisonment and his controversial style among the Jews, he may have left his identity anonymous so he himself would not be a stumbling block to reach his Jewish brothers.  Eternity will reveal who wrote the Book of Hebrews but it is certainly a plausible theory. <br /> <br />Overall, the greatest benefit in reading this book is to provide a better framework for understanding Paul as he travels among the early churches and wrote letters to them correcting the various false teachings and problems that developed.	2005-09-07
US	51636683	R16NOVW11D7ZZW	0972151249	172382027	Running Against the Wind: The Transformation of a New Age Medium and His Warning to the Church	Books	5	53	55	N	N	Honest Testimony From a Former New-Ager	I have heard Brian Flynn speak at various events here in the Twin Cities area.  He is a dynamic speaker and his book is just as profound and engaging.  <br /> <br />Mr. Flynn gives a first hand account of how he was in the New Age movement, not just experimenting with it, but actively participating in about every kind of occult and eastern mysticism practice that is out there.  After becoming a Christian, he was disillusioned when solid evangelical churches began embracing these same new-age practices but disguising them in christian terminology (centering prayer, contemplative prayer and Christian yoga.)  Flynn knows the origin of all these practices are non-Christian and contradictory to the bible.  (Example:  Jesus warned in Matthew 6:7 not to use vain repetitions when praying.  What are some Christian churches teaching?   Repeat your Christian one-word mantra over and over until you tune out.... just like the Hindus do.) <br /> <br />Mr. Flynn warns Christians that these practices have invaded the church along with the seeker-sensitive movement.  Most Seekers don't want to learn about the bible; they demand experiences and feelings, and don't want to hear anything that faith is substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen (Hebrews 11:1.)  These New Age practices fit right in to this demand and christian pastors are embracing these concepts because they help draw and keep a crowd, and thus, keep the budget going.  <br /> <br />I got into trouble with my own pastor after confronting him after he publicly recommended reading the \\"The Ragamuffin Gospel\\" by Brennan Manning.   My pastor thought there was so much grace and love in that book.  I told him I read it and agreed that love and grace were in there, but that the book was also filled with a bunch of contemplative prayer and mysticism that is clearly eastern in origin.  My baptist pastor told me to get with the program.  I imagine that if I gave him Brian Flynn's book, I will get the boot out of the church.  <br /> <br />The book is very readable and practical and from my observations, accurately describes what I have seen in evangelical christianity over the past decade. Thank you Mr. Flynn for your bold stance in contending earnestly for the faith delivered once and for all times.  (Jude, verse 3.)  We have far too many pastors out there whose main focus is attendance, budget and prestige and truth is somewhere down the totem pole of priorities.   <br /> <br />	2005-06-27
US	51636683	R3HBNDNA6WYYDE	158134726X	236374259	Fool's Gold?: Discerning Truth in an Age of Error	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Today's Evangelical Church is earning a "D" for Discernment	Pastor MacArthur uses a 150-year analogy about the California Gold Rush to compare to today's evangelical churches who rush to embrace any doctrine that is culturally relevant or politically correct.  How true.  Like yeast in a ball of bread dough, false teaching and apostasy are running rampant through today's church.  Truth takes a backseat in the rush to build new buildings and bring in the sinner (seeker) to have their felt needs and desires drive the content and format of the service for believers.  <br /> <br />MacArthur does not author the entire book but serves as general editor.  He does pen several key chapters that define the problem in today's world, including the one that concentrates on Rick Warren and Saddleback Church.  The Seeker-Sensitive Movement is the prime culprit of false teaching today.  Satan loves to deceive people and this time, he came up with a movement that is about 90 percent truth but 10 percent heresy.  That's why most evangelical Christians don't see the problem with Rick Warren.  He is so close to truth but fails to preach a solid gospel of repentance, the Cross, the blood atonement, and the resurrection.  People read all the bible verses Warren quotes but those promises were given to Christians, not the seekers prior to accepting Christ. Until they accept the offensive gospel of a crucified Jew (1 Cor Ch. 1), they are lost in the sins.   <br /> <br />Rick Warren has now come out with his PEACE plan to globalize Christianity.  Where in the bible does it say we are to conquer the world for Christ so that He is ready to come back to reign?  No, our job is to preach the gospel.  We probably won't get wealthy doing it and Jesus promised great persecution for doing so.  (John 15:18). If one takes a literal view of the Second Coming Promises, all one can find about peace is that there will be a 3 1/2 year period of peace immediately before AntiChrist takes over world authority.  Rick Warren, no matter how well intentioned and sincere, isinevitably helping to set up the one-world church to be used by AntiChrist.  God will judge his heart but he should be using his platform and authority to preach the gospel of Jesus, not man's felt needs.  <br /> <br />Fool's Gold also addresses other key problems in today's churches such as the shallowness of contemporary christian music, easy-believism, and Christian involvement into today's political issues.   MacArthur ends the book by offering practical suggestions to sharpen one's biblical discernment and apply it into their local church.  <br /> <br />Excellent response to 90 percent of the junk that litters most Christian bookstores.   <br /> <br />	2005-04-23
US	51636683	R1FE434P1QSNPQ	1578565200	122770018	Hell? Yes!: ...and Other Outrageous Truths You Can Still Believe	Books	5	18	26	N	Y	Unvarnished Truth	Strap on your seatbelt for solid bible teaching on the truths that are incredibly hard to believe, but are completely true.  We can not completely fathom some of God's rationale with our inferior human minds but God is in control, has a plan, is holy, and demands justice and payment for sin. Hell does exist.  God does permit great suffering.  God's plan for the family is far different than what society teaches.  <br /> <br />Offends you?   Good.  But God has also provided the loving grace and Blood of His son to rectify our human shortcomings.  <br /> <br />Very readable and isn't theologically too difficult to absorb. Highly recommend.  <br /> <br />We see through a glass darkly now according to the Apostle Paul but God's will and grand plan will never be clear to us this side of eternity.  We need to pray for the faith to persevere and trust Him on these tough truths He and the apostles taught.	2005-03-14
US	51636683	R3F6EWTTUYONL	1414300395	547477830	End of State: Necessary Evils: A Time for Treason (Left Behind Political)	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	Third in a Series/ Strong Writing	The political series of \\"Left Behind\\" continues during the first few weeks after the Rapture with more political intrigue, murder, and ominous overtones as Nicolae, the future Antichrist, rises to power.  The novel focuses most on Brad Benton, White House chief of staff, with subplots involving his friends: the head of FEMA (Mariette), Pastor Dumont, and the mayor of New York City.  The writing and characterization is strong and has built upon the first two novels.  <br /> <br />The only difficulty in the book is that the White House conspiracy underway is as incomprehensible as the Iran Contra scandal or Watergate.  Basically, some businessman is siphoning off gold out of the country with the help and knowledge of Pentagon and White House cronies.   <br /> <br />Several nostalgic touches in this novel are the cameo appearances by Rayford Steele, Buck Williams and Hattie Durham, main characters from the original \\"Left Behind\\" series. <br /> <br />Ms. Hart provides the gospel to the reader as she describes the post-Rapture evangelical message given by Pastor Marcus Dumont. Another plus she worked into the context of her writing.  <br /> <br />Hopefully, there will be more in the series as book # 3 ends with the signing of a Middle East peace treaty and the beginning of the final 7-year period known as the Tribulation and Daniel's 70th Week.  (Daniel 9:27).	2005-03-13
US	51636683	RD3AXU9BWSO4L	0736914390	628934357	The Truth Behind the Da Vinci Code: A Challenging Response to the Bestselling Novel	Books	5	17	32	N	Y	Excellent Rebuttal to DaVinci Code	Mr. Abanes does simply a terrific job diagramming the heresy and myths created in the work of fiction, the novel \\"The DaVinci Code\\" by Dan Brown.  He deftly balances scholarship with readability and I found his work very complete as he noted many angles of the novel with its related theories that I never thought about.  <br /> <br />It's too bad good evangelical churches are studying a work of fiction which page after page, contradicts clear biblical accounts and teaching.  Mr. Abanes does a very credible job organizing lists, scriptures, etc. to confront the themes and threads throughout the novel.   <br /> <br />Clearly Mr. Brown struck a nerve and tapped into a market hungering for experience and something to justify their own preconceived notions and falsehoods.  The most important market he exploited was the feminist movement who are absolutely dazzled by the theory that Jesus Christ wanted Mary Magdalene to lead the church.  (See 2 Timothy 3: (6-7) to see a description of Dan Brown.)   <br /> <br />With Ron Howard currently producing \\"The DaVinci Code\\" for movie release in 2005, Mr. Abanes' book is all that much more important to have as a handy, readable reference.   <br /> <br />I would not be the least bit surprised that when the Antichrist of Revelation Chapter 13 is revealed to the world, he proclaims some kind of lineage to Jesus and Mary Magdalene to authenticate his messiahship.  Obviously, Brown's book goes a long way to laying the groundwork for the public to believe such a lie.   <br /> <br />Good job, Mr. Abanes.  <br />	2004-12-11
US	51636683	R174V3GTVYZM7X	044652252X	269931120	The American Prophecies: Ancient Scriptures Reveal Our Nation's Future	Books	4	12	22	N	Y	Excellent with a Couple of Blemishes	As a born-again Christian with an interest in bible prophecy for the past 25 years or so, I have read many books, seen many videos, and attended a dozen or more prophecy conferences or speeches.      This book is definitely in the Top 10 of essential resources about the bible predictions of last events.  Evans gives an unsurpassed summary of how America is (or isn't) in bible prophecies.  For one reason or another, America disappears from the end-time stage which is clearly in the Middle East and Europe.  The Rapture is one explanation.  A devastating attack(s) from the War on Terror could be another.  The pullout of Saudi and Asian investments in Wall Street and the U.S. government bond market could be another.  Maybe all three.   Could be something else.  Evans is not dogmatic about any answer but does make the case that the U.S. doesn't seem to be around at the end.      Evans also gives the most readable history I have studied about the foundation of the United States and its role in launching the establishment of the nation of Israel.  Some might think this history would be as dry as withered leaves but Evans makes it very interesting.  Especially strong was a description of each American President since FDR and their varying levels of interest and support in the nation of Israel.     A few irritations is that Evans is constantly name-dropping meetings with both former and current political figures throughout the world.  I did put up with it because I do think he has the credentials to back those meetings up.      The one page in the book which is largely inexcusable is buried in the Appendix in which he provides a list of widely known religious and media personalities whom he calls the \\"moral glue\\" of the United States.     Many on the list are wonderful citizens, Christians, and used mightily of God.  However, some of the people, (in my humble opinion and discernment) are false teachers whose teachings will eventually lead to America's decline and the rise ofthe One-World church of Antichrist.  Particular false teachings represented by this list of individuals include:     *  The Church-Growth Movement which sacrifices biblical truth and content in the name of unity, numbers, money and square footage.  These guys are marrying the church to the society to draw numbers and are absolutely killing the local churches who have to compete with a secular market mentality just to survive.  With the church growth philosophy, every church will eventually be the same, just like McDonald's franchises.   *  Post-Millenialism Theology which tends to deny or downplay the significance of the nation of Israel in God's future plan.   *  Prosperity Theology:  Some people listed clearly promote a \\"name and claim it\\", \\"blab it and grab it\\" materialism that is uniquely American in today's world and certainly very Laodiocean (Revelation Ch. 3). Probably one reason why God will judge America are some of these guys that Evans praises as the nation's moral glue.   *  New Age, Healing and Contemplative Prayer ministries which throw away the value of expositional bible studies and godly prayer for the emotional high of feelings and experiences.     Very odd that Mike Evans would write a masterpiece book and then announce he admires some notable turkeys.      With all Christian books, be a good, discerning Berean (Acts 17:11) in all your studies.  Eat the cherries but spit out the pits !!   99 percent of this book is great.  Just spit out the pits in the Appendix.	2004-11-27
US	51636683	RNUEYWUU0IIA3	1414300360	999012558	End of State: Impeachable Offense: The Conspiracy Grows . . . (Left Behind Political)	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Solid Sequel	Harriet Klausner has done very well summarizing the second novel in this series.  The characterization is very strong and Ms. Hart successfully has me hooked for book 3 to find out how Brad, Mariette, Marcus, and Randal survive another day with Nicolae gaining more power.      The only thing about the two books in the series so far that I feel is a bit lacking are the effects of the Rapture on society, the economy, and the national psyche.  I personally think the Rapture will so devastate America that we will quickly cease from being a major player on the world scene.   That probably explains why Europe, the Middle East, and the Far East are the main players in biblical prophetic passages detailed for the 7-year Tribulation period.  I think the novel leads one to believe that relatively few people disappeared in the Rapture.  In addition, the events of novel imply that the economy, transportation systems, communication infrastructure, civil authority and government are still functioning fairly well and have not completely collapsed.  For the sake of developing the novel series, Ms. Hart has to make these assumptions.  Knowing Americans, there will be widespread panic, looting, hoarding and certainly not \\"business as usual.\\"        Nevertheless, the series is engaging and I will continue to read subsequent offerings.	2004-10-12
US	51636683	R2YP58DJQB1ARW	1928660134	331521656	Showtime for the Sheep? The Church and the Passion of the Christ	Books	5	19	36	N	N	Politically Incorrect Truth - Thanks Thomas !!	I went to the \\"Passion of the Christ\\" when it first came out and was profoundly moved.  There are scenes in the film that I think Mel Gibson did very well.  Still, I left the theatre knowing that there was much content in this film that did not have any biblical support whatsoever.  Sure, Mel as a producer has a right to use artistic license to tell a tale and sell a movie.  But in no way should we embrace Catholic tradition as eternal truth.    T.A. McMahon is an ex-Catholic and has a passion of his own for reaching the Catholic people with the truth of Jesus Christ.  In reading the book, I also learned he has a background in the film industry.  As such, he is in a unique position to comment on this film.  He does a credible job explaining the many scenes in the movie that are taken from Catholic tradition and emphasize a salvation of works and a direction towards the goddess worship of Mary that evolved as Rome assimilated paganism with Christianity.      I also agree with the author that this film tends to draw people into the realm of experiences and feelings, rather than who Jesus was, how he was predicted to arrive throughout the Old Testament, and how he will return to rescue the Jewish people before they are destroyed.  The church is full of mysticism and New Age today and very little biblical knowledge and discernment. This film will only add to the biblical illiteracy of a generation that wants nothing to do with learning from bible studies but will accept the questionable interpretations of Hollywood superstars.      I am afraid that one of the effects of this film will be a Protestant acceptance (without scrutiny) of all the Catholic elements Mel has portrayed here.  How many Protestants know that the Catholic Church still condemns anyone who believes solely in salvation by grace?  Catholics believe Muslims are saved because Allah is the same as Jehovah.  But we \\"rebels\\" of Martin Luther ilk are still condemned to hell for our biblical stances.  Something is rotten in Denmark (or Rome).      I taught a current events adult sunday school class during the time the movie was in the theatres.  One week we exclusively discussed the film.   For what I would characterize as a scriptural evangelical church, I was dismayed by the number of Christians who did not pick up on how much of the film's storylines with Mary, Veronica, the stations of the cross, etc. are not in the bible.  Most thought I was hypercritical for even suggesting the film had some problems.  Mel had a marketing machine in place and even the evangelicals fell hook, line and sinker with only a few (like McMahon) even throwing up caution signs.  The film also unfortunately never answers the question of who Jesus Christ was, assuming the viewer already knows.  As such, I am not sure it is even a good evangelical tool.    McMahon's work deserves a broader audience than it will likely receive.  This book is concise and very readable.  As we move towards the one world church, the \\"Passion of the Christ\\" is a major step for Protestants to abandon the truths that our forefathers were martyred in defending.  Martin Luther must be rolling over in his grave with how we have placed unity above truth.  I am one of those who believe there can be no unity without truth.	2004-09-07
US	51636683	R2G81T15B9OGSF	080106502X	718731970	Seeing Is Believing: Experience Jesus through Imaginative Prayer	Books	1	19	75	N	N	Boyd is a Gnostic	Looks like Pastor Boyd has embraced the old Gnostic heresies of seeking to divine special insights or knowledge by practicing imaginative or contemplative methods.  (The epistles of Peter and John warn about the false teachers.  So does the Book of Galatians (Paul.)) <br />With all due respect..... this is New Age Hinduism with Christian terminology.  And I am very disappointed that Boyd, with all his education and background in Baptist General Conference theology, has turned away from simply preaching the gospel.  (1 Cor Ch. 15:1-6).  <br />Pastor Boyd's new book follows in the footsteps of Richard Foster, Brennan Manning and a host of others who have invaded the church and convinced undiscerning Christians that mere bible study is not enough.  Imagine the possibilities.   Visualize God.  Health and wealth.  Intimacy with God.  Repeat &quot;Jesus, Jesus&quot; over and over and get closer to Him. <br />Why do preachers sell this heresy?   Because seekers are bored with simply studying the bible which teaches perseverance, suffering, and the fact that Christians will have trials in this life.  Instead, in our McDonald's instant gratification culture, they demand more experiences, feelings, and self-fulfillment in the here and now.  Pastors get rich and can build big churches spewing this rubbish to unsuspecting, bible-illiterate seekers.  And these seekers have found teachers who will teach such garbage to their itching ears.  (2 Timothy 4:3). <br />I expect Boyd's next book to be co-written with Deepak Chopra.  God help this world.  We are fast approaching the one world church predicted in the Book of Revelation and one can start to predict who will be its leaders.	2004-04-26
US	51636683	R23DEI422JRDMH	0842384197	397674176	End of State: Now All the Rules Have Changed (Left Behind Political)	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Liked Better Than The Original Series	Congratulations to Ms. Hart on her excellent work basing a new storyline on the Rapture and Tribulation period.  While the &quot;Left Behind&quot; series has an international focus, &quot;End of State&quot; concentrates on the United States in the aftermath of the Rapture.  Ms. Hart captures the terror, confusion, and general &quot;mess&quot; that will be left behind when a significant number of American Christians disappear.  <br />Mark Hitchcock, in his books on bible prophecy, often mentions that he believes the Rapture will be God's final judgment on America.  This is one plausible explanation for why America does not seem to play a prominent and clear role in the 7-year tribulation.  I think the Rapture of the church will leave America in far worse shape than even Ms. Hart envisions.  The economy will tank, families will be broken apart, organizations will be left without key leaders, businesses will lose 10-30 percent of their customers, and most importantly, the christian salt and light will be removed from government and the rule of law.   <br />The one doctrinal problem I have with this book is that some of the characters are given second chances to believe in Jesus after the Rapture after rejecting Him prior to that time.   Only God knows when a heart has hardened beyond the point of ever accepting grace.   Still, 2 Thessalonians Ch. 2, verses 10-12 seem to indicate that the Antichrist will deceive people who had opportunties prior to the Tribulation to be saved but refused.  Many people will get saved during the Tribulation, that much is clear from scripture.  What is somewhat unclear is how many of them were really exposed to the gospel before the Rapture?  <br />Still, this current piece of fiction will one day largely come true.  I see Amazon listing the second book of the series for release in July 2004 and I look forward to reading it.	2004-03-09
US	51636683	R3CXQ03SIKT0BM	1591605415	343255799	Jacob's Trouble	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Solid Effort  - Even if Uneven	Overall this book is not bad.  2/3 of the book is extremely riveting and exciting while early parts of the book dragged like reading a newspaper article.  <br />Half way through the Tribulation, the events become very graphic and plot twists start to be revealed and from then on, the book became a page turner.  The breathtaking ending led into an Alfred Hitchcock-like conclusion that blew me away.  Great twist, Mike !!<br />Stuffing the seven-year Tribulation into one relatively small novel obviously will omit key events of the period.  I wish Pennino had written this as a trilogy.  LaHaye and Jenkins have milked \\"Left Behind\\" for 12 books and that is a bit much.  But more than one book is certainly justified.  <br />Solid effort for what I believe is a first-time author.	2004-03-04
US	51636683	R26T1VOPM8VWCW	0785263454	807583202	Hard to Believe: The High Cost and Infinite Value of Following Jesus	Books	5	103	118	N	N	Most Important Book of the Decade	The title of the review may sound overdone but I truly believe the Christian church will look back upon this book as the salt needed to combat the &quot;seeker sensitive&quot;, &quot;user friendly&quot; church phenonmenon popularized by Robert Schuller, Bill Hybels, and now the master charlatan of them all, Rick Warren.  These guys, in order to build empires, have thrown away sound biblical teachings, and have structured their churches with modern, worldly music, psychology and political correctness to make people feel good.  These marketing efforts do attract numbers, which of course leads to higher budgets and eventually, more square footage of building needed to entertain and make the &quot;seekers&quot; feel comfortable.  Warren's book essentially cherry-picks the appealing teachings of the bible and completely ignores the clear teachings that are &quot;hard to believe.&quot;  MacArthur's book describes these unpopular teachings and one quickly learns why guys like Warren and Hybels won't touch them with a ten-foot pole.  Our selfish American society doesn't want any negativity or discomfort with their Christianity. Whatever one wants to believe is fine. These guys have reinvented the gospel to make the unchurched &quot;buy&quot; Christianity because if they heard the true gospel, they never would do so. Is that really evangelism or a &quot;bait and switch&quot; used car salesman tactic?   Read MacArthur's book and you decide.<br />(You may wish to read my November 8, 2003 review of the &quot;The Purpose-Driven Life&quot; by Rick Warren on Amazon.com to properly compare and contrast &quot;Hard to Believe.&quot; ) <br />MacArthur tactfully does not take on &quot;The Purpose-Driven Life&quot; by name in &quot;Hard to Believe&quot; but there is little doubt to whom this book is responding.  Rick Warren has sold ga-zillion copies of his book and churches are stumbling over themselves trying to implement &quot;seeker-sensitive&quot; approaches into their church worship styles and church governance.  No longer can one enter a sanctuary away from the pressures of the world to respectfully worship God; church is now one big marketing blitz, complete with multimedia, entertainment, and diversity in beliefs, no different than the rest of our week.  I for one want to worship with people like-minded in the exclusivity of Jesus. (John 14:6) <br />MacArthur refutes the &quot;seeker sensitive&quot; heresy by using scripture. He continually reminds the reader that his statements are not opinion, but scripture which is clearly documented and referenced.  The gospel is hard to believe and there is a cost to follow Christ.  <br />Some would say MacArthur risks stepping into legalism. Believing following rules determines salvation quickly invites legalism.  MacArthur supports that we are saved by grace through faith (Ephesians 2:8-10).  But that if grace is exclusively taught, many people get into the mindset of never facing their sin and depravity. MacArthur argues that those genuinely saved will be miserable staying in sin and will want to get out of it.  A balance is needed between grace and truth.  But MacArthur argues that the &quot;seeker sensitive&quot; churches preach grace without a portrayal and definition of sin and you have many people &quot;accepting&quot; Christ who never realize why they really need to do so. <br />Essentially, the good news of Romans Chapters 3 through 8 is not great news unless one fully realizes his/her sin and depravity (Romans Chapter 1 and 2.)   And with seeker-sensitive churches, you will never hear Romans 1 and 2 taught. Why?  Because those ideas are hard to believe and unpopular.  If churches did teach that, people wouldn't come back.  <br />MacArthur then reveals the conundrum: the true gospel is easily rejected. The seeker-sensitive message is easily accepted. If you had a big church budget and overhead and sought earthly prestige and power, what would you preach?  What people wanted to hear or the truth?  MacArthur leaves the reader with that challenge.  <br />John MacArthur is one of God's greatest witnesses to this generation.  I think when Rick Warren's ideas get truthfully analyzed, the purpose-driven concepts don't work or scandal ensues, (one or more will eventually happen), we will still have MacArthur's book quoting scripture standing the test of time.   And you will be able to buy &quot;The Purpose-Driven Life&quot; on Amazon for a penny.	2004-01-19
US	51636683	RKBH8H9MW4DYE	0971448116	346575614	Tea with Terrorists: Who They Are * Why They Kill	Books	5	70	85	N	Y	Warning to America that probably is too late.	There are many good books exposing Islam out there.  Annis Shorrosh and Ergun Caner are ex-Muslims who have become Christians and have written excellent theological summaries from first-hand perspectives about Islam.  Winn and Power have written a similar book but within the framework of a novel that all-too-often has fiction standing at the front door of reality.<br />There are many people who will read a novel but will not read a non-fiction book about Islam.  From that standpoint, this book is important to have available for such readers.  For more scholarly books on Islam, I would recommend Shorrosh or Caner.  That being said, Winn's novel blew me away and had me on the edge of my seat for days.  If you won't read anything else on Islam, read \\"Tea with Terrorists.\\"  <br />Winn's book is about an American hero and his love interest who are forced to research the history and theology of Islam before it destroys America.  The facts they find about Muhammad and the Koran are beyond the ability to describe in this review.  The bible tell us that Satan is a deceiver and a liar.  Nowhere is this more true than in the deception of billions of Muslims with Islam.  Equally shocking is the deception of the American people from the American media who are controlled by the petrodollars of Arab kingdoms.  America is literally over a barrel (of oil).  The American public doesn't want the truth because it is too difficult to accept. We want to keep driving our SUV's and go about our merry way. We want to believe that the world is one and everyone wants peace.  That is a very appealing dream world but is quite wrong.  Denial is not a river in Egypt !!<br />The book is also quite perceptive that President Bush's war on terrorism is perhaps sincere but misguided.  Capturing Saddam or Osama might make Americans feel good but those events are hollow victories.  The enemy is still Islam and the message of hate from the Koran will not go away.  Winn speculates President Bush will go down in history as failing to have the courage to identify the enemy because being politically correct and winning reelection is more important to him than accepting the clear evidence that Islam is the enemy.  Winn also chides Americans for not recognizing world history that the rise of Nazism in the 1930's is closely akin to that of Islam in the past decade. Both are dead set against the Jews.  History teaches man learns nothing from history and the struggle with Islam may very well lead the world into the final countdown towards Armageddon. <br />I was the first to be skeptical of Winn and Power preaching to me about the hazards of Islam.  After all, aren't these two of the guys from ValueAmerica that helped prick the Internet bubble that produced the paper loss of hundreds of billions to major pension funds as well as the lone investor in late 1999?  They may have not been saints in their past lives or at best, unprepared opportunists laced with greed, but they must have had a change of heart.  Like the Apostle Paul, I think Winn may have had a \\"Damascus Road\\" experience and has seen the light. Why else take the risk?  Winn could sip mint julips the rest of his life with his millions and not have to invite such controversy.  I only wish he had included a statement of faith of what he does believe in the foreword to the book. I don't know what would prompt guys who walked away from the Internet bubble with a fortune to take the risk of writing a book like this?  Seems like the Muslims would want to string them up on a cross like the heroes in the book.  But they are right on with their analysis about the media and the christian establishment that has put peace and unity above biblical truth.  <br />The only knocks on the book is that it could have easily have been at least 50 pages shorter.  The hero in the book rails on the Koran as being repetitive while commiting the same crime himself.  In addition, the overt Republican agenda presented by the protagonist as he is running for president is a little over the top.  I would agree with much of it (in a perfect world) but Winn is a bit idealistic about the compassion of America's wealthiest:  The rich tend to be a little tight with their dollar when it comes to helping the poor and needy.  <br />America is in a heap of trouble: The President is fighting the wrong enemy because he won't accept the truth.  The media is controlled.  The pulpits in America are silent because pastors want to build empires and not offend anyone.  If America is soon judged for her immorality and unfaithfulness, no one can say that we weren't warned.  Winn's book is one such warning.	2004-01-04
US	51636683	R1QKIHF5VE2YL6	0842384065	66971145	Soon: The Beginning of The End (Underground Zealot)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Solid- Not Hooked Entirely	The stars are given for Jenkins' premise that before the Rapture of the Church, the church in America might undergo tremendous persecution and suffering.   I think many Christians go about their merry way and think the Rapture will occur before the heat is turned up against Christian beliefs.  That thinking is most arrogant and Jenkins presents a world where that environment becomes reality.  Jenkins' vision may not be entirely off-base that as the evangelical churches in America continue to water-down the gospel with &quot;seeker-sensitive&quot; messages, we are rapidly approaching a merger of evangelical Christianity with false religion and apostasy.  (See the very dangerous book by Rick Warren called &quot;A Purpose-Driven Life&quot; and its popularity if you don't believe Christians are being duped into dumbness. We are already observing the suppression of the gospel and a preaching of Christianity where a person is allowed to pick and choose their beliefs from a buffet of offerings.) <br />Give Jenkins an &quot;A&quot; for originality with the premise.   I knocked the book down a little because some obvious plot holes were never addressed.  I just thought the protagonist, Paul Steppola, embraced Christianity just a little too quickly.  Sure, that can happen but most people wrestle with the issue for months and years, not days.  The other plot hole is that the underground Christians are calling each other on cell phones all around the country and the federal agents in charge of suppressing religion appear oblivious to it all. <br />The characters are developed adequately but not with tremendous depth.  Jenkins obviously has a trilogy outline in mind that does not accomodate the time for too much characterization.   <br />I will likely read the remainder of the trilogy when released,  unless, of course, the Rapture, happens first.	2003-12-05
US	51636683	R2WW7PHFKFFNNZ	1403386595	400771606	The Final Witness (The Last Gentile Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Trilogy finishes with a gallop	Strong writing right through to the end.   Bybee's strength is his scientific postulating of how the Tribulation judgments will be manifested.  Cause and effect were very interesting.  <br />Bybee has storylines going all around the world and in orbit of all places.   The gospel is preached.  Some characters leave the scene without firm indication of what happened to them.... gets one to think. <br />Carlo the Antichrist and Simon are maybe a bit wooden and a little bit like Klink and Schultz of Hogan's Heroes at times.  Still it was an exciting read.  Just as good as Left Behind and certainly more intellectually challenging as nature self-destructs these last seven years.   <br />Start another trilogy, Cary !!	2003-11-20
US	51636683	R22G1HRN5NZYVT	055334899X	270032114	The Road to Holocaust	Books	5	46	55	N	Y	Hal Lindsey's:  This book is his  "Hidden Gem "	You can't go wrong reading anything written by Hal Lindsey.  He is most famous for his books on bible prophecy and the second coming of Jesus Christ.  This book has only a slight prophetic bent; it is mostly a commentary on the corruptness of doctrine in today's church.<br />I first read this book when it came out in the late 1980's but I didn't recognize how profound the message was at that time.  Only after I observed how the churches since then have begun to teach \\"replacement theology\\" that I realized how prophetic Lindsey was when he warned about it 15 years ago.<br />\\"Replacement Theology\\" is basically the school of thought that teaches when the Jews rejected their Messiah and Jerusalem was destroyed in 70 A.D., God gave up on His promises to Abraham, Isaac and the Jewish people.  These promises were then transferred to the New Testament church. This belief is taught by the Roman Catholic Church and most mainline protestant churches.<br />Replacement Theology is heresy.  Bunch of baloney.  Here is your scripture:<br />Romans Chapter 9 through 11, written by the Apostle Paul, clearly teaches that God is not through with the Jewish people.  As a witness to an unbelieving world, God will keep all His promises to the Jewish people despite their continual cycles of unbelief.<br />One can see why \\"Replacement Theology\\" is such an appealing doctrine for the church to embrace.  Who wouldn't want to be the apple of God's eye?  But read Romans Ch. 11 and you can see that the Gentile believers are just a detour, a wild branch of the olive tree, that God is calling during Israel's current time of unbelief. The church has completely lost its focus that we are the unnatural branch, not the natural one. By God's grace, we are grafted into the natural olive tree.  The church is far too cocky about this and we forget the importance of the Jewish branch which will soon be restored.<br />But the church wants these promises made to Israel and forget that the Jews exist.  Many prominent church leaders believe, by human efforts, the church will evangelize the world so that Jesus will return to take His rightful throne. What arrogance !!<br />Today's church and corrupt pastors and priests, in their lust for worldly power, materialism, and prestige, fail to read the bible message that the world is not going to get better and better.  Paul and Peter in the epistles clearly warn the end time will be filled with apostasty, deception and things will get worse and worse.  The church of today also don't want to recognize Revelation Chapter 7 that God is going to designate 144,000 Jews to evangelize the world during the final 7-year Tribulation.  The true church and its remnant of believers will be raptured before the Antichrist is revealed.  Those remaining in the church after the Rapture will be deceived.  (1 Thess. 2:11-12)<br />Particularly fascinating about Lindsey's book was how Martin Luther became very Anti-Semitic late in his life.  Martin Luther did many great things restoring biblical truths that had been perverted by the Catholic church.  But Luther was very disappointed that the Jews did not embrace the reformation theology.  He voiced that frustration in books that led to \\"replacement theology.\\"  Hitler eventually used Luther's own writing to justify his proposed extermination of the Jews.  This little feature about Luther is not well advertised and even in the current movie \\"Luther\\", the last 15 years of his life are deliberately omitted at the end.  (Probably because Lutheran Brotherhood, part producer of the movie, would like to conveniently whitewash that little fact.)<br />This book needs to be re-read and the scripture studied to ensure that the Gentile church never forgets her place in scripture.  The church is here to go forth and make disciples.  But the church age is coming to an end.  (Romans 11:25)  God will then evangelize the world through the natural branch before He returns.  God means what he says and says what he means.We are to love and pray for the Jewish people and Jerusalem that they will one day recognize and welcome their messiah.what he means.  We are to love and pray for the Jewish people and Jerusalem that they will one day recognize and welcome their messiah.	2003-11-15
US	51636683	R1KFJ2P9SQQLT8	1403386536	98905977	Deacon's Horn (The Last Gentile Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Book 2 Better than Book 1	The action takes off in Book 2 as the Tribulaton begins.  New characters enter the story and Bybee does a good job getting the reader quickly attached to these people as their lives become more difficult by the day.  Literally, Bybee has story lines going all around the world at the same time. <br />I especially like Bybee's ideas of how the judgments of the Book of Revelation could come about.  Who knows and if my belief in a pre-tribulation rapture is correct, I and other Christians today will watch these events from the &quot;balcony&quot;.  <br />I look forward to reading Book 3.   Thanks.	2003-11-09
US	51636683	RLREWODESE3MI	1403386560	963503652	The Last Gentile (The Last Gentile Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Solid Alternative to &quot;Left Behind&quot;	Interesting read.  I thought Mr. Bybee did a better job of developing characters than the &quot;Left Behind&quot; series.   I liked how the first book was centered around the main character who was not a Christian but constantly seeking and searching.  The book also involves angelic messengers which certainly graphically illustrate how there are unseen beings (good and bad) that are integral parts of each of our lives.  (Ephesians Chapter 6: 12).<br />I knocked the book down one star because of nagging spelling and grammatical errors.  (Not that I am without sin in this regard.)  But the book certainly should have been proof-read far better.  The other odd thing that got me was that whatever a character was thinking but left unspoken was continually put into quotation marks.  Just seemed a bit strange.<br />That being said, I have the next two books to read in the sseries.  Thank you Mr. Bybee for having all the books available at once and not making the audience and I wait months and years for the sequels.  I look forward to book 2, especially since at the end of book 1, many of the characters were off the scene, so to speak.	2003-11-08
US	51636683	R23IN7RNF940O1	0310205719	36906356	The Purpose Driven Life	Books	1	108	141	N	N	Very Dangerous Book	I read the book as part of a program our church recently completed.  Many of the negative reviews are absolutely correct.  The Oct. 30, 2003 reviewer was particularly right on the mark with specific theological problems.  <br />Who knows Rick Warren's motive? Traditional bible preaching of fundamentals has floundered. Does that make it wrong or is that just a fulfillment of 1 Timothy Ch. 4:1-3.  Give Warren a \\"A\\" for pragmatism:  He wants to save souls but the only way to produce \\"sales\\" is to disguise the nature and characteristics of the product he is selling.  (Did he once sell used cars? ) I am ready to vomit as I watch the evangelical church market the gospel as the world would.  This appeals strongly to baby boomers who are just trying to compartmentalize another aspect of their selfish lives.  (I am a boomer- by the way.)   <br />What particularly galls me is Warren's use of Romans 12:2.  In this verse, Paul states that Christians are not to conform to the methods and ways of the world but be separate from it. We are to do this with the renewing of our minds from the power of the Holy Spirit, not the powers of this world.  Warren completely misses Paul's admonition no matter what version or paraphrase of the bible he chooses to quote.  Warren spins verses throughout this book, frequently quoting key verses with the version that suits his particular argument at the time.  Warren's church, Saddleback, is nothing more than a prime example of Madison Avenue marketing right out of the Harvard Business School.  Warren loves to hint at quantitative success measures such as attendance, budget, and square footage.  But God's success factors are God-centered worship and prayer, teaching the entire counsel of God's word to an unbelieving world, and faithfully telling the truth even if the world chooses to reject it. (John 6:60-69)<br />This best-selling book is very dangerous because it has more nuggets of truth than most books of questionable teachings. It is not so much what Warren teaches that is wrong but what is not presented.  Christians who are newer or don't know their bible have no basis to refute Warren's teachings which contain truths but leaves out key Christian doctrines.  Undiscerning Christians are buying into Warren's teachings because by worldly standards, his church is extremely successful.  Even with some truths, Warren ends up teaching a different gospel (Galatians 1:6-10) because the offensive aspects of the cross and sin are deliberately ignored.  The cross is meant to be offensive to seekers (1 Cor 1:18-31), yet Warren paints only the positive because God forbid, seeker \\"Saddleback Sam\\" may not come back and throw money in the plate next week.  You will also notice Warren completely ignores Romans Ch. 1:18 - 2:29 since Saddleback Sam does not want to be preached to about his sin and depravity.  Sam simply wants to accept God's provision for it (Romans Ch. 3-8) without any cost to himself.  As a result, Warren quotes extensively from Romans Ch. 3 through Ch. 8 but doesn't want to offend Saddleback Sam by confronting him with the unpleasant message of Romans Ch. 1 and Ch. 2 that each of us are desparately wicked people who need to get right with God.  <br />Ultimately, Warren's hypocrisy is best illustrated in his opening thesis that \\"Your life is not all about you.\\"  But Warren's marketing plan and church structure are the complete opposite of that. If it is all about a holy God, shouldn't we structure our churches around what God wants, not Saddleback Sam ??  Most evangelical church services (Warren's included) revolve around Saddleback Sam's desires for worship: short sermons full of examples and feel-good ancedotes but little scripture, and modern music sprinkled with banal, repetitive lyrics of Christian terminology and pop psychology.  God's command for worship is far different: humility in our music, prayer, teaching the entire word, a loving but firm message of our need to repent and accept God's provision of the cross, and praying that the Holy Spirit will stir the heart of the unregenerate Saddleback Sam or Sally that may be sitting next to us. <br />I pray this \\"seeker-sensitive\\" phenomenon will be exposed as the apostasy that it is.  It may have a sincere motive but you can't market the Blood of Christ like you can automobiles or laundry soap.  To fill a church, Warren ends up changing the product. The Apostle Paul clearly says in 1 Cor Ch. 1 that the gospel message is foolishness to the unbeliever. That's why the seeker-sensitive churches disguise the gospel: Most Saddleback Sams would likely walk out if he was preached the complete true gospel.  As it is, they read Warren's book and are placated with a modified gospel, cherry-picked with the positives and disposed of the negatives. Consequently, Warren's book is man-centered, not God centered, regardless how Warren will argue otherwise.  You can't cherry-pick the bible, Rick !!<br />I completely support the evangelizing the unchurched.  In fact, that is our command from the Lord himself. (Matthew 28:19.)  But our evangelizing of Saddleback Sam must never, repeat NEVER, come at the cost of censoring biblical doctrines about the person and work of Jesus Christ and the sinfulness of man just because the teaching of these truths might offend someone or conflict with the belief system the world has taught them. <br />In summary, the Apostle Paul had the right model for evangelizing an unchurched world in the Book of Romans.  Was Paul's teaching popular?  Didn't Paul end up killed by the Romans for preaching it?  Warren makes the fatal mistake of apostasy of jumping to the good news of Romans Ch. 3-8 by ignoring the unpopular Romans Chapter 1-2.  Sure, you can build a big church and draw a big crowd preaching that type of message.  But has the gospel really been advanced when key parts are deliberately ignored?	2003-11-08
US	51636683	R2CT2DAAOYKOXR	0921714785	147726523	Creation: Remarkable Evidence of God's Design	Books	5	46	65	N	Y	Evolution Will Soon Be Extinct	Excellent book written without scientific overload.  Dr. Jeffrey has a gift for writing in understandable terms for the lay person.   Dr. Jeffrey is best known for his knowledge of bible prophecy so this book is a bit of a departure for him;  still the study of evolution does tie in to the end-times scenario since it is a sign of the times that people would choose to believe in just about anything other than a God who made the universe. (Romans 1:18-23).<br />In past books, Dr. Jeffrey used current events and already fulfilled prophecy to witness to the skeptic.  He still has the same objective but now is using the universe as a proof to the existence and power of God.  The author shows how creation and design is obvious in astronomy, human physiology, the animal kingdom and most impressively, recent discoveries into the blueprint of life, the DNA molecule.  Dr. Jeffrey shows passages from the bible that describe what science is just now discovering.  And how often do you hear from people who say the bible is no longer relevant in today's world?<br />But Dr. Jeffrey doesn't just utilize the bible.  He then traces how even secular scientists and intellecutals in their own writings are rejecting evolution since the universe points to some type of design, rather than an evolutionary development. <br />Many people embrace evolution because in their pride and self-determination, the alternative of a creator God scares them too much.  Dr. Jeffrey ends the book with a compassionate invitation that the creator of the universe is intensely interested in each of us and is inviting each person to seek Him out. <br />Thank you Dr. Jeffrey for your research and excellent writing.	2003-11-01
US	51636683	R8ELZ4SWWK57R	0801022762	767547553	Across the Spectrum: Understanding Issues in Evangelical Theology	Books	2	62	98	N	Y	Pastor Boyd	Excellent book detailing the four main viewpoints of foreknowledge/predesitnation. Easy to read and comprehend.  For that I give it two stars.  Recommended for those studying the topic.  It really does not get overwhelming for the lay person. <br />One warning: Pastor Boyd's \\"open theology\\" viewpoint leaves me absolutely awestruck that such a learned man could be so in error. <br />Pastor Boyd is selling a man-centered viewpoint of God that plays perfectly into the selfish, \\"Me-First\\" generation of growing evangelical Christians.  It sure has translated into large crowds in his church.  His mantra is:  \\"I have choice... and God doesn't know who is going to be saved.\\"  Ultimately, such teaching leads a \\"seeker\\" or an immature Christian to have a far too small picture of a sovereign God and a much too large sense of human control and power than the bible teaches.   Christians are merely the clay.  God is the potter.  (2 Cor. 4 and Romans Ch. 9)  <br />Boyd lifts sections of Old Testament scripture where God rhetorically asks questions such as \\"I didn't know man could be so wicked\\"  and \\"I never imagined man could do this\\" and builds a theology around non-literal speech.  See Isaiah 4:4-5 for an example that Boyd likes to use: God said He didn't expect bad grapes to grow where he thought good grapes would grow. Boyd's conclusion:  God doesn't know the future.  Baloney.  The author of the Bible, the Holy Spirit, is merely getting the reader to think.  By taking isolated verses out of context, Boyd fails to accept the bible's consistent message of how God has revealed His complete omniscience, if no other place, through continual, countless examples of fulfilled prophecies.  If God doesn't know the future, how did Zechariah know that the Messiah would ride into Jerusalem on a donkey?  (Zechariah 9:9)  450 years before it happened !!  There are hundreds of more examples in the bible of God detailing history before it happens and the events happening.  Daniel Chapter 11 was exactly fulfilled in the years before Christ's first coming.  Boyd chooses to ignore the obvious lessons of prophecy and pick on the Holy Spirit's poetic speech upon which to build his doctrines. <br />Boyd is growing a mega-church here in the Twin Cities area ala... Rick Warren and Bill Hybels.   Like Saddleback and Willow Creek, the church growth is through worldly seekers attracted because of an incomplete picture of God and a drastically superinflated picture of man. (These mega-pastors know that a solid, true biblical message will be largely ignored so they have gone off and invented an approach that will play to the crowd.  They are more like used car salesmen than biblical pastors!! )  <br />This distorted approach to evangelism fits perfectly with Revelation Ch. 3 and the Church of Laodicea which is neither hot nor cold.  These kind of churches hold a form of godliness but deny the power thereof.  Such messages tickle people's ears but are rubbish, dung.   Paul warned against such teachers who preach to people with itching ears. (2nd Timothy 4:3-5).  <br />Buyer beware of Open Theology. Broad is the way that leads to destruction.   Few find the narrow way.	2003-10-07
US	51636683	R24DYIUYTRH9EG	0852345178	74863847	Why I Left the Contemporary Christian Music Movement: Confessions of a Former Worship Leader	Books	5	268	329	N	Y	Finally- A Resonant Chord of Truth about Christian Music	Great book and interesting, uncomplicated read.  9 out of 10 Christians would probably label this book as opinionated and destroying the progress of the evangelical movement in the America today.  But like many episodes in the bible, the minority are frequently correct but overcome by a tide of well-meaning but deluded people. <br />Lucarini, from first-hand experience, has special discernment in detailing the origin of Contemporary Christian Music (CCM) and that it is a worldly means of attracting people to the gospel message.  Take away the lyrics, the sound is like mainstream rock radio of today with their pagan origins.  <br />I am not a musician but I have seen first-hand the infiltration and effects of Christian rock into the church.  In too many churches, one can no longer find an opportunity for reflection, prayer, and a quiet worship with one's creator.  The sound is so loud at times, I have left the sanctuary.  <br />I have had friendly discussions with our youth pastor.  He said the youth want to hear music they like and we need to do it to attract them back.  Well, the elders buy into this, even though some of them come in late purposely because they don't like the music.  Go figure ??<br />The other very destructive part of CCM generally is that we have raised a group of young evangelicals who are biblically illiterate.  They sing the words but have no background on where in the bible those lyrics or thoughts can be found.  Many are \\"7-11\\" songs ... seven words repeated 11 times over.  People are attracted because of the music and many probably stay only because of the music.  Are they truly growing as disciples in the Lord for which they are commanded?  Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God.  (Romans 10:17)  In too many churches, the only hearing done by youth is from the band.  <br />The other thing Lucarini touches upon is to read the lyrics of many CCM songs.  Many of them could have been written by George Harrison of the Beatles praising one of his Hindu Gods. Essentially many CCM songs are general worship music... just insert the God of your choice as you sing.   Where is the exclusivity of Jesus?   (John 14:6) <br />CCM doesn't want to deal too specifically with the blood of Christ, What His suffering on the cross cost the Father, His second coming, and final judgment for every person.  The lyrics don't get too complicated.... people won't come back.  <br />Lucarini should be commended for taking a terribly politically incorrect stance but one that is absolutely correct.  CCM is paving the way for the ecumenical church of Revelation Chapter 3, one that is lukewarm that Jesus says He will spew out of His mouth.  Thank you for your boldness, Mr. Lucarini.	2003-10-06
US	51636683	R1GS8RNK68IHHI	1575580624	836956920	Crisis in Christian Music	Books	5	35	42	N	Y	Excellent Expose on CCM	Contemporary Christian Music (CCM) has invaded the evangelical churches of the past 10-20 years.  Dr. Wheaton makes a case that some of CCM is not altogether bad, it just wasn't necesarily meant to be part of a worship service.  <br />I am not a trained musician like Dr. Wheaton so I appreciated his teaching on basic music theory and how lyrics and melody are supposed to complement one another.  The book is certainly not hard-to-read and is practical since what is described is exactly what is going on in churches in America. <br />Dr. Wheaton makes a case that the young people are gaining increasing influence in churches and crowding out the traditonal hymns so rich in scriptural truth and flowing melodies.  I see this happening at my home church that anytime an old-style hymn is played, you can see the youth of the church grimace. <br />What is most disturbing from this CCM trend is that the young people of our church are so biblically illiterate. Clearly music is the medium and solid bible exposition is boring and out-of-date.  <br />CCM plays directly into the methodology of the &quot;seeker-sensitive&quot; movement of Rick Warren and Bill Hybels because contemporary evangelical church services are deliberately superficial.  The church is trying to market an offensive product (the cross of Christ) to a person who is purposely not told the whole story.   The story they get is that church is fun, you won't have to hear you are a sinner, you will be entertained with music that sounds like the rest of the world, we won't throw a cross in your sightlines, and you will know that God is love and wants to answer your every selfish prayer.  <br />God help us from these charlatans who are slick salesmen who are selling the unchurched by leaving out the other side of the Christian decision.  God is holy.  You are expected to be obedient to His word.  There is a hell.  And this world is not necessarily about our felt-needs, but His will for our lives. <br />Dr. Wheaton givessome practical exhortation that churches need to get back to lyrics and melodies that edify the body and facilitate a dignified worship of our Lord and Creator.   Oh, if every church youth or music director had the courage to just read this book.  We can only pray.	2003-10-06
US	51636683	R3NGQ6IKG3438F	1931628270	838289446	Faith for Earth's Final Hour	Books	5	122	129	N	Y	Hal Lindsey - Bible Teacher Who is More Than Prophecy	Hal Lindsey is arguably the best selling end-times, prophecy teacher in the world today.  Probably only LaHaye and Jenkins with the &quot;Left Behind&quot; series are anywhere close.  After a masterpiece book in 2002 describing the false religion of Islam and why 9/11 happened (&quot;The Everlasting Hatred&quot;), Hal has written a book that is more pastoral in character rather than the prophetic emphasis of most of his books.<br />His new book, &quot;Faith for Earth's Final Hours&quot; is a re-write of his earlier book from 1986 called &quot;Combat Faith.&quot;  The lessons Lindsey teaches in this new book are no less important than his prophetic analyses over the years.  Lindsey details that as the Earth roars towards Armageddon, true bible-believing Christians will endure greater and greater persecution for their beliefs.<br />Such persecution has always been present in most of the world but Americans have been largely insulated from such threats.  Lindsey believes American Christians may face tremendous growing persecution before the Rapture of the Church.  It already has started.  Bible-believing Christians are already becoming politically incorrect... even in evangelical churches which are now mostly wrapped up in the &quot;seeker sensitive&quot; heresy which throws away the preaching of sound doctrine and the true gospel because it is offensive to the visiting unchurched person.<br />Hal's book goes through that faith is a skill developed over time by trusting God, despite circumstances, bad news, and trials.  He describes in detail the wanderings of the Israelite people after the Exodus.  These people kept seeing miracle after miracle from God, yet immediately turned back to materialism, unbelief, and false gods.  ( A little like most christians in America of 2003 ??)<br />The book concludes with an absolutely stunning explanation with 10 reasons why God allows trials in a christian's life.  There are so many myths and bad teaching out there, even in &quot;good&quot; churches.  I would encourage anyone going through an unexplainable trial to read Hal's lessons and the tremendous insights that will guide you to understand God's mysterious will.  You will get teaching that is so sadly ignored by evangelical pastors because their entire focus is on bigger crowds, increased cash flow, and massive buildings.<br />I highly recommend this easy-to-read, insightful book that shows Hal Lindsey is not merely a prophecy expert, but a loving pastor with the gift of comfort.uot;good&quot; churches.  I would encourage anyone going through an unexplainable trial to read Hal's lessons and the tremendous insights that will guide you to understand God's mysterious will.  You will get teaching that is so sadly ignored by evangelical pastors because their entire focus is on bigger crowds, increased cash flow, and massive buildings.  <br />I highly recommend this easy-to-read, insightful book that shows Hal Lindsey is not merely a prophecy expert, but a loving pastor with the gift of comfort.	2003-10-04
US	51636683	R6UE87F6BRLNQ	1593790104	217071618	Beyond Iraq: The Next Move--Ancient Prophecy and Modern Day Conspiracy Collide	Books	5	19	24	N	Y	The Only Road Map to Peace -  The Bible	I throughly enjoyed Mr. Evans' timely book because the events described in the book are so fresh in my mind.   Evans has had access to the most important persons involved with the issues of the Middle East over the past 30 years.  As such, he is uniquely qualified to write this book.  <br />He writes his book from a pro-Israeli viewpoint that the land covenents between God and Abraham about 4,000 years ago trump any Arab claims to the land that have occurred since then.   Evans does an especially good job describing the extremist form of Islam called Wahabi.  I learned that the extremist Muslims really do obey the Koran.  The garden variety Muslim in the U.S. and Europe are much like nominal Christians:  They believe their faith to a point but not with a passion.   We need to remember that Wahabis and the extreme form of Islam constitute only about 10 percent of Muslims worldwide but that is still over 100 million people.  They want to see Israel driven into the Mediterrean and the U.S. driven to financial ruin.   They are taking their fantastic oil reserves as Allah's blessing to accomplish these goals.  <br />Evans traces both history and politics and ties them into biblical references that have predicted these events.  Especially of concern is Evans' warning that the upcoming 2004 Presidential election may be largely determined, not by American voters, but by Muslim powers who will manipulate the timing of terrorism to put the person of THEIR choice in the White House beginning in 2005.  <br />Hal Lindsey's recent books on prophecy and current events have probably been more crisper reads for me in understanding the Middle East.  Mr. Evans is a close second.   Evans' book does show some evidence that the text was hastily written and even more shoddily edited:<br />On page 29, Evans incorrectly states that the Euphrates River runs through Baghdad.  On page 45, the same sentence is repeated in the same paragraph.  On page 59, the text implies that Hussein, the grandson of Muhammad who died about 632 A.D., was killed by rivals in 1680.  Old guy !! Annoying little glitches that hopefully can be corrected before the book is reprinted.  <br />I have only one theological nitpick with Evans.  On page 24, he calls King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon as \\"wicked.\\"  He may have been that way at the time of the Book of Daniel Chapter 2.  I think it is very interesting that Nebuchadnezzar eventually did recognize and submit to the God of Israel.  (Daniel Chapter 4.)   I think his repentence and conversion could have been mentioned.  If Saddam Hussein were truly like Nebuchadnezzar, should we expect Saddam to repent and recognize the God of Israel?  <br />These nitpicks do not detract from Evans' main thesis:  The U.S. invasion of Iraq had significant implications for God's plan in the unfolding of the end times.  Jesus Christ is soon returning to the earth and the main stage geographically will be the final fight between Jerusalem and Babylon. (Isaac and Ishmael.)  I would encourage all unbelievers and especially Muslims, to read Evans' book with an open mind.  Islam is Satan's invention to try to exterminate the Jew from the planet.  It will not work.  (Jeremiah 31: (31-40.) Don't delay your decision for Jesus Christ.  Time is rapidly running out.	2003-07-19
US	51636683	R2OQITE7ZWTAMT	0972151206	426779664	A Time of Departing: How a Universal Spirituality is Changing the Face of Christianity	Books	5	36	42	N	Y	BullsEye on the Evangelical Church of Today	The evangelical church in North America has been plagued with many facets of apostasy over the past several decades.  Ray Yungen documents that the New Age Movement and its Eastern philosophies have insidiously crept into Christianity.  Things like yoga and meditation are exposed, along with their Satantic roots. But the New Age is even more subtle that that.  Read the book and you'll be surprised what popular teachers and teachings are New Age !!    Evangelicals are doing about everything but what we should be doing:  praying, studying the bible, and as Jesus said, \\"feeding the sheep.\\" <br />The book is an easy read and not overly long.  Christians dabbling in the occult need to discern the evil origin of these activities.  Mr. Yungen has provided ample warning to all.  <br />I hope Ray Yungen would also write a book about the \\"Church Growth Movement\\"  \\"Seeker Sensitive\\" and other philosophies espoused by Rick Warren, Bill Hybels and others.  Seems like the evangelical church is now picking and choosing what parts of the bible it wants to teach. Certain parts of the bible are now politically incorrect and the evangelical church will no longer touch them because preaching them would offend people, hurt attendance and god forbid, result in reduced offerings next week.  The entire pragmatic goal is to fill churches, build buildings, and write books about their successes.  Who cares what is being (or not being) taught?  I am thankful that teachers like Mr. Yungen are out there taking unpopular stands and keeping the truth in print. <br />All these problems in the evangelical church today are all Satan's attempt to prevent the true gospel from being preached.  I heard Mr. Yungen on a Twin Cities radio interview a few weeks ago and he was outstanding.   Keep preaching brother !!	2003-07-04
US	51636683	R1IXJ7XFX0P7NR	0736911421	526508441	Fast Facts on the Middle East Conflict	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Encyclopedia of the Middle East	Ever been confused about the Middle East?  Get confused about who was in charge on a particular year in history?  Perplexed about how the names of cities and regions changed over time? <br />This is your book.<br />I have heard Randall Price in bible prophecy conferences.  He is an outstanding archeologist and bible scholar and is uniquely qualified to put this book together.  <br />There is so much disinformation about the Middle East.  If you want to be mislead, follow CNN and the major media players.   If you want a &quot;Reader's Digest&quot; version of the Middle East, this is your book.  Dr. Price is devoutly supportive of Israel and its right to the land.  (Genesis 15:18) <br />It is a skinny book but chock full of information.  I have it on my shelf like an encyclopedia reference.   Thank you, Dr. Price for your work.   We look forward to your visit to the Twin Cities in September 2003 at a bible prophecy conference.  God bless.	2003-07-04
US	51636683	RMQKUUMH56DU5	1931628157	59395755	The Everlasting Hatred: The Roots of Jihad	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	The Politically Incorrect Truth About the Middle East	I had heard that Hal Lindsey had written much of this book during the 1990's - well before Sept. 11, 2001 but that no publisher was interested in the topic.  I have followed Hal's ministry for years and he was warning about the coming struggle with Islam long before Pan-Am Flight 103 (1988), World Trade Center (1993), Oklahoma City (1995), TWA Flight 800 (1996), The U.S Cole (1998), and the World Trade Center (again, 2001).  C'mon Americans, wake up and smell the coffee.  The President is wrong.  Islam is not a great religion hijacked by a few radicals.  Most Muslims don't even know what their own religion teaches.  Hal makes the case that Islam is \\"Institutionalized Anti-Semitism\\" and as soon as our President and leaders recognize it, the sooner we can deal with the problem.<br /><br />Hal documents that the current struggle is nothing more than an ancient feud in which Abraham fathered three lines of children with three different women, only one of which was the line of promise (Isaac) which would produce the Messiah.  The other two lines have ended up jealous of the inheritance and role of Isaac's descendents and the Jewish people.  Most people might know of Abraham, Hagar, and the older son Ishmael.  However, hardly anyone knows of Abraham's second wife (Keturah) and that he had six sons with her.  Together with Ishmael's descendents, these people have control of most of the land and resources of the Middle East. They would like nothing more than to destroy the Jews and Israel, once and for all, and drive her in to the Mediterrean.<br /><br />Hal does a fantastic job with the history of the Middle East after the destruction of the nation of Israel and the Temple in 70 A.D.  The Crusades are documented as is the Ottoman Empire from about 1500 to 1917 A.D.  Of all people, Mark Twain's writings are documented of what his observations of the land were in the 1870's.  That was a gem.<br /><br />Following World War I, Great Britain shafted the Jewish people. Hal's book presents maps of how much land Israel was originally granted.  In fact, there was a Palestinian homeland created but it immediately gave it to a Saudi prince who whined.  Britain in her desire to cow-tow to the rising importance of oil, gave this Saudi prince what is now the Country of Jordan.  Boy, the amount of blood and heartache this decision has produced.<br /><br />What I enjoyed the most from the book are how the Old Testament promises given to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are still coming true in today's world.  Hal continually goes back to scripture to prove that God is not done with the Jewish people and the Nation of Israel.  We know from Ezekiel, Daniel, and the Book of Revelation that the world stage is setting up for the second coming of Jesus Christ.  The history of the Jewish people, including her return to her land over the last century, is the prelude to the sequence of events documented in the Book of Revelation.<br /><br />An understanding of the history of the Jewish people and the Middle East is the foundation for having any understanding of today's world and prophetic events soon to unfold.  I highly recommend Hal's book for your studies.<br /><br />Hal continues to say that America's tombstone will say, \\"America, Dead from Political Correctness.\\"  We still live in an America in which the truth can get out if one wants to search for it.  Unfortunately, many would say that Hal is spreading hate.  No, he is trying to reach the Muslim so they don't spend eternity in hell.  Sometimes the truth hurts and if America doesn't wake up soon or if she ever forsakes Israel, we are in major trouble.  (Genesis 12:3). Hal's book presents maps of how much land Israel was originally granted.  In fact, there was a Palestinian homeland created but it immediately gave it to a Saudi prince who whined.  Britain in her desire to cow-tow to the rising importance of oil, gave this Saudi prince what is now the Country of Jordan.  Boy, the amount of blood and heartache this decision has produced.   <br /> <br />What I enjoyed the most from the book are how the Old Testament promises given to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are still coming true in today's world.  Hal continually goes back to scripture to prove that God is not done with the Jewish people and the Nation of Israel.  We know from Ezekiel, Daniel, and the Book of Revelation that the world stage is setting up for the second coming of Jesus Christ.  The history of the Jewish people, including her return to her land over the last century, is the prelude to the sequence of events documented in the Book of Revelation.   <br /> <br />An understanding of the history of the Jewish people and the Middle East is the foundation for having any understanding of today's world and prophetic events soon to unfold.  I highly recommend Hal's book for your studies.    <br /> <br />Hal continues to say that America's tombstone will say, \\"America, Dead from Political Correctness.\\"  We still live in an America in which the truth can get out if one wants to search for it.  Unfortunately, many would say that Hal is spreading hate.  No, he is trying to reach the Muslim so they don't spend eternity in hell.  Sometimes the truth hurts and if America doesn't wake up soon or if she ever forsakes Israel, we are in major trouble.  (Genesis 12:3)  <br /> <br />	2003-06-22
US	51636683	R1SEX8Y0JPMFRF	052594737X	308736004	Are You Rapture Ready?: Signs, Prophecies, Warnings, and Suspicions that the Endtime Is Now	Books	5	26	35	N	Y	Get Your Friends Rapture-Ready - Now	Are you ready for the most monumental event in human history?  A day is coming when millions of people will suddenly disappear and the world will have a difficult time trying to explain what has happened.  <br />This book is sprightly but respectfully written.  It is certainly not deep or complex theologically.  It was designed to be read by your average \\"Joe.\\"   It is an excellent complement to Hal Lindsey's books about the Rapture which concentrate more on the biblical explanations and history of church teaching on the topic.  Strandberg and James do make excellent use of shaded areas of some pages that allow readers, who are interested to take side trips to particular parts of the bible, to study for themselves that the Rapture is coming and probably sooner than anyone knows. <br />The book is certainly a witnessing tool for non-believers today; however the book is also addressed to those \\"left behind.\\"  The book anticipates that the Rapture of believers will be the biggest media event of all time.   There will be hysteria, panic and a bevy of experts on CNN, FOX and the major networks attempting to provide explanations and answers to grief-stricken, confused people.  The book candidly explains what the Book of Revelation foretells about world events coming for these people left behind.   Yet, promises from the bible are detailed for those who believe despite persucution.   Instructions are clear that one left behind must not accept the mark and worship of the coming world leader.  <br />I pray this book gathers a wide audience.  As for me, I plan to leave a copy of the book in my office in the hope one of my co-workers will find it after the Rapture.  With the peace efforts by President Bush in the Middle East right now, I have goose pimples that the prophecies of Daniel, Ezekiel, Zechariah and the Apostle John are so rapidly unfolding right before our eyes.  <br />Todd and Terry have found an unique way to continue their ministry even after they are no longer physically here after the Rapture.  Thank you Todd and Terry, not only for the book but also the website that provides even more information:  <br /><br />I read your updates once or twice a week and it encourages my Christian walk to focus on the blessed hope those who will leave in the Rapture have.   God bless.	2003-05-31
US	51636683	RDS0BY9MRF3F1	1931232555	681482498	I Just Wanted More Land	Books	5	20	26	N	Y	Dead On	I read Wilkinson's &quot;Prayer of Jabez&quot; with an open mind and absolutely could not believe why such a piece of apostasy was a best seller.  But the stock market was running wild in the late 90's, everyone was doing well, so in retrospect, maybe it was not quite a surprise at all.<br />Wilkinson's exposition of four verses from Chronicles was beyond stretching.  We may never know the real Jabez's motivation for his prayer.  But remember his name means &quot;pain.&quot;  There are plenty of New Testament references cited by Mr. Gilley that clearly dispute Wilkinson's obnoxious &quot;health and wealth&quot;, &quot;name it and claim it&quot; gospel.  Jesus also clearly taught against repetitious prayers.  C'mon Christians.....see through Wilkinson's garbage.<br />Gilley is right on with his rebutting of Wilkinson's book.  With the economy tanking right now, I wonder how many &quot;Jabez&quot; readers are now more than a little disillusioned?<br />Thank you Mr. Gilley for your courage in writing a book that is against the Christian current, but right on !!	2003-04-12
US	51636683	R3J3S2OT7B80EK	0452283914	569076996	The Best Democracy Money Can Buy	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	No Holds Barred	I heard Mr. Palast on a radio interview and just had to get his new book.  As we suspected, the government is about as fraudulent as WorldCom and Enron.  <br />Palast has no particular partisan bent.   Clinton and G.W. Bush are equally skewered.   The election fraud of the 2000 Election in Florida will eventually be told after enough time has passed for Americans to handle it.  <br />One other fraud that is current right now is why Saudi Arabia is not exposed as an enemy of the U.S.?   Bush's relationship with the Saudi oil sheiks is enough to make you retch.   And we say Saudi Arabia is tolerant?   Only Islam is legal in Saudi Arabia.  Some example of tolerance.   All is done in the name of the love of money.... and oil.<br />Definite must read.	2003-04-12
US	51636683	R1QNLC8JJ8KKVS	1929125305	966997011	What Love Is This? Calvinism's Misrepresentation of God	Books	1	20	38	N	Y	Sounds Good But Scripture is Clearly Grace (Calvinism)	I have met and talked to Dave Hunt.  He is a sincere man who has written many excellent books defending the faith.  His book, \\"A Woman Rides The Beast\\" exposed the Catholic Church clearly as the whore of Babylon in Revelation 17-18. <br />However, I must doctrinally disagree with my brother on this one.  Other reviewers have quoted many scriptures which beat back the apostasy of Armininism and this repugnant \\"Open Theology\\" which claims God does not know who is going to get saved because He does not know the future.  <br />John 6:37, Ephesians 2:8-9, clearly teach that salvation is never by works but by God calling His chosen through grace.  Works (Book of James) are evidence of salvation and will be used to base eternal rewards.  However, grace solely provides salvation.   <br /> I can't fully explain why God chooses some but not others but Romans 9 also teaches that God hardened Pharoah's heart by His own will.  If all were going to be saved, why does Jesus clearly teach that some will go to hell (Luke 16: 19-31) ?  <br />By faith, I accept that God's justice will be perfect.  I just can't explain it within my understanding of time and physics.  Jesus died for all but not all will accept, even when presented with the gospel over and over.  <br />Dave's book was interesting for its historical research but bless his heart, I don't accept his view that God is not loving or just because He condemns some to hell.  Some day we will see God's justice and understand that no one went to hell who did not reject Christ.  I look forward to his future book with James White which will debate Calvinism.	2003-04-06
US	51636683	R3883KHTEF3ILI	1565077172	809019083	The God Makers: A Shocking Expose of What the Mormon Church Really Believes	Books	5	38	73	N	Y	Truth about the Mormon Church	The Mormon church is a godless institution teaching what Paul warned about in Galatians 1:8-9:  Very ironic that Paul in verse 8 even uses an angel reference.  Why?  Because Joseph Smith claimed that Mormonism was delivered to him by \\"angel of light.\\"  I wonder if that same Angel of Light that spoke to Smith also made an appearance as a serpent in Genesis Ch. 3 promising that Eve that she will never die and will become God?<br />The book gives a Christian exegesis that shows Mormonism is not consistent with the Bible and has at its heart, a works-based theology.  Oh, if the Mormons could understand God's grace (Ephesians 2: 8-9) and not be caught up with their man-centered works and efforts.<br />I pray for Mormons and I have a dear friend who converted to Mormonism from Protestantism because he was not ground in the Word.  Mormonism is particularly deceptive because it wraps itself in such a pleasing package of family values and clean living.  But tear the facade apart and you find a set of beliefs that will make your eyes roll.<br />Just one weird Mormon belief:  God once had a body of flesh and bone like we have.  He progressed to Godhood.  All Mormon men are now working hard to reach Godhood themselves.  The men and their earthly wife will eventually have their own planet where they can be God to their own society of created beings.  (Probably Mormons too.)  I imagine this is very appealing to men to have eternal sex but we must remember what scripture says in Hebrews 9:27.  \\"It is appointed onto men to die once, then judgment.\\"  The bible is clear that Mormons will be judged, not populating planets out in the universe.<br />Hundreds of bible references contradict this theory.  But the Mormon Church and Satan fight those arguments off.  Mr. Decker and Mr. Hunt successfully repudiate this godless heresy.  Highly recommend.	2003-04-06
US	51636683	RFAQJ0V72BYN	1591600499	5542445	This Little Church Went to Market: The Church in the Age of Modern Entertainment	Books	5	63	65	N	Y	If your church is starting a marketing effort, READ NOW.	Simply an excellent work, practical and not a difficult read.<br />Mr. Gilley hits the nail on the head and if your church is all of sudden enamored with the philosophies of Rick Warren, Bill Hybels or Lee Strobel, spend the money and buy this book.  Unfortunately, this book will not get this circulation it deserves.<br />The evangelical church of today is surrounding itself with man-centered philosophies and teachers that are presenting softened gospel-lite messages for itching ears.  (2 Tim 4:3-5)  Basically, the message of Mr. Gilley is that today's church is giving the unbelieving visitor a non-threatening environment where they can be entertained and fed pop psychology sprinkled with Christian terminology.  Doctrines of holiness, judgment, and hell are never taught;  only that God is love and wants to answer your selfish Jabez-like prayer for more and more worldly possessions.<br />Well, this heresy is resulting in the dumbing-down of Christians.  Yes, there is nothing wrong with preaching of God's love and forgiveness;  however, when other clearly taught doctrines are conveniently ignored because they would reduce attendance and cash inflows, we have the state of the modern megachurch in America today.  (Mark 8:36??)<br />Mr. Gilley successfuly argues that music and entertainment are also killing the gospel message in the modern church.  Too much of christian music today is nothing more than &quot;7-11&quot; songs.... seven words repeated eleven times over.  We are attracting too many people to the entertainment and the true message gets watered down because the &quot;cross is a hindrance to the unbeliever.&quot;  (See 1 Cor 1)<br />I believe the marketing gurus in these churchs are probably sincere.  Their plan is to spring the true gospel on these unchurched people after they have made them comfortable walking through the front door.  But how often does this really occur?  Only God knows.<br />Mr. Gilley argues that today's churches need to return to preaching the Gospel and praying that the Holy Spirit will stir and convict the unbeliever.  The marketing philosophy removes the Spirit by emphasizing that music, entertainment and a non-threatening environment will cause them to make that decision.<br />Excellent work and should be read if your church is pushed to study the works of Rick Warren, Bill Hybels, etc.<br />God bless you in your studies.to preaching the Gospel and praying that the Holy Spirit will stir and convict the unbeliever.   The marketing philosophy removes the Spirit by emphasizing that music, entertainment and a non-threatening environment will cause them to make that decision.  <br />Excellent work and should be read if your church is pushed to study the works of Rick Warren, Bill Hybels, etc.  <br />God bless you in your studies.	2003-04-06
US	51636683	R29M76J3GEOMSI	0971761272	182376830	The Cult of Jabez: And the Falling Away of the Church in America	Books	5	26	28	N	Y	Excellent, Biblical Response to &quot;Jabez&quot;	I thought the Christian church would immediately see through the heresy of the &quot;Prayer of Jabez.&quot;   Many did.  However, I was surprised so many bought into it.  But with the Christian church of today and its focus on pop psychology and the needs of the &quot;me first&quot; generation, maybe it is not too surprising that &quot;Jabez&quot; sold so many copies.  I wish everyone who read &quot;Jabez&quot; would read this book but sadly, the damage is done.  This Health and Wealth gospel taught by Wilkinson plays very well in North America.   It is not so easily accepted in other parts of the world. <br />Hopkins' has an excellent exegesis that show Wilkinson read far more into these verses in Chronicles than ever could be reasonably taught.   The repetition of the Jabez prayer was a particularly warning siren for me.   Didn't Jesus say that when you pray, don't use vain repetitions?  ( Matthew 6:7). <br />Mr. Hopkins exposes this heresy for what it is.  It is a man-centered philosophy that is basically selfish at its core. Was the Apostle Paul ever wealthy?  Was his thorn in the flesh ever removed?  It may be that God's will is for some to obtain wealth but to teach that it will come to all, is clearly anti-biblical.  This book sold well as the stock market was flying high in the late 90's.  But with today's economic realities, I think the heresy speaks for itself.   It tickles the ears of many Christians but is clearly bologna.  (See 2 Timothy 4:3-5)  Thanks Mr. Hopkins.  God bless.	2003-04-06
US	51636683	RJ8Q7EFM63T0B	188884843X	376743357	Vanished into Thin Air: The Hope of Every Believer	Books	5	53	56	N	Y	Not a Rehash	I was surprised and delighted with &quot;Vanished Into Thin Air.&quot;  I am a veteran of Hal Lindsey books, having been saved largely through the reading of his book, &quot;There's a New World Coming&quot; back in 1979. I found enough new to justify buying, reading, and actually studying from this book.  The text is written with Lindsey-like simplicity.  Even when a Greek word is printed onto the page, you won't feel overwhelmed.<br />The new book draws a little from many of his books and mixes them into a cohesive whole.  He debates the teaching of the &quot;Kingdom Now&quot; group of post-tribulationists again as he did in his book, &quot;The Road to Holocaust.&quot;  He updates &quot;Late Great Planet Earth&quot; with new developments pointing towards the return of Jesus Christ.<br />An earlier review claimed that this was a rehash of his 1983 book, &quot;The Rapture.&quot;  The event of the Rapture is analyzed in depth. However, there is also new information in this area as Lindsey quotes an early church letter (sermon) which adds credence to the view that the Rapture is not a topic only developed in the past couple hundred of years.  I was most impressed with Lindsey's claim that he undertook this book to honestly question his belief in the Pre-Trib rapture viewpoint. From his study, he could not.<br />Lindsey may be knocked for some date-setting tendencies back in the 1970's and early 1980's.  In his excitement, he said and wrote statements that today he wishes he could retract.  Who wouldn't be excited about these promises?  However, those faults should not detract from the truth of his main thesis:  Based on bible prophecy, today's world indicates that we can not be far from the rapture, and following, the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ.  This promise should give us comfort and hope despite everything we see and hear around us.	2001-02-20
