US	51638416	R2GXNL3OT0RQ6H	0533118522	748012561	Spirits Alive!: Confrontations with the Spirits of Brazil	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Insightful look at spiritism & related phenomena	This book is a first-hand account of the author's exploration of spiritist phenomena and mediums in Brazil.  The book offers a thoughtful consideration of the topic and descriptions of observations and conversation with mediums and spirit personalities.  This book was refreshing in its neutral approach to the phenomena - neither glorifying nor attacking spiritist beliefs and practices.  The validity of the phenomena are well-documented, while the author is to be commended for being open-minded and non-credulous in interpreting what happens in spiritist practices.  Spiritual phenomena and existence are just as complex and colorful as the human realm of existence, and this book offers a window into the lack of separation between the material and spiritual realms.	2005-07-06
US	51638416	R3VSR25NYS97X8	1582701040	671953394	The Power of Appreciation: The Key to a Vibrant Life	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Nice spiritual/metaphysical oriented self-help	This book integrates recent research about the power of appreciation with ageless spiritual wisdom about the vibrational dynamics of life and reality.  It presents practical ways of using this information to help readers shift their thought patterns and thereby change their vibrational state and what they are attracting into their experience.  From the heart coherence research of the Institute of HeartMath to the water crystal photos of Dr. Emoto, the authors make clear how our thoughts create vibrational shifts that transform our external reality.  They explain how appreciation can be used to attract positive experiences rather than continuing to maintain thoughts that energize negative experiences.  This concept is very valid, but the authors fail to adequately explore how deeply embedded our thought patterns and vibrational patterns can be.  For some people it is difficult to develop appreciation in some areas of their lives, as there are strong conflicting patterns in their subconscious levels of mind.  It would take intense commitment to override the self-defeating patterns unless steps are taken to access the subconscious and transform or release the negative patterns at that level.  Since this is a self-help book, it attempts to present things in a simple, clear way that will generate enthusiasm for readers to apply the concepts and exercises in the book.  Unfortunately, by minimizing the complexities of how our thought patterns develop and how life unfolds, this type of approach can lead those who are skeptically inclined to readily give up on or criticize the approach when they don't get rapid results.  The only other significant weakness I observed in the book was something very brief in the discussion of how appreciation was applied following terror attacks in America.  A reference to appreciation of \\"steadfastness\\" of America's leaders was made, which in reality was part of the reaction desired by the orchestrators of the terror, making that instance of appreciation counterproductive to those who wish not to give power and energy to terrorism.  In retrospect, a major thing to appreciate about those terror events could be how they fostered a growing awareness of who truly desire to have citizens in states of fear.  The appreciation for freedom that the authors discuss has been of much value and instrumental in helping those viewing ongoing events recognize who were most eager to restrict American freedoms after the Trade Center/Pentagon attacks, leading to discovery of who really was involved in orchestrating those events.  So despite that one brief flaw the discussion of appreciation in response to crisis in this book is generally quite valuable.<br /><br />Appreciation is a very important vibrational thought/feeling pattern and this book does a good job of exploring the hows and whys.appreciation counterproductive to those who wish not to give power and energy to terrorism.  In retrospect, a major thing to appreciate about those terror events could be how they fostered a growing awareness of who truly desire to have citizens in states of fear.  The appreciation for freedom that the authors discuss has been of much value and instrumental in helping those viewing ongoing events recognize who were most eager to restrict American freedoms after the Trade Center/Pentagon attacks, leading to discovery of who really was involved in orchestrating those events.  So despite that one brief flaw the discussion of appreciation in response to crisis in this book is generally quite valuable. <br /> <br />Appreciation is a very important vibrational thought/feeling pattern and this book does a good job of exploring the hows and whys.	2005-06-28
US	51638416	R106RX6ZV27JWC	1582701288	894409110	The True Power of Water: Healing and Discovering Ourselves	Books	5	86	88	N	Y	insights into water, consciousness, & vibrational healing	Masaru Emoto follows up his Hidden Messages In Water book with another small book flowing with a wealth of insights about water and its role in the system of consciousness and vibration that manifests our existence.  This new book reviews how Dr. Emoto became involved in his research on water and vibrational healing and includes a nice section of color water crystal photos.  It discusses radionics, vibration, resonance, and the properties of waves, as well as the role of consciousness and the environment in informing water, the medium that makes up 70% of the human body.  Emoto has noted the correspondences between body organs and emotions, showing how specific emotions generate vibrational disturbances in specific regions of the vibratory continuum that generates the physical body.  Emoto's use of written words to create healing vibrations/information in water seems to be a useful means of anchoring intention.  This book is more relevant for healing practitioners than Emoto's previous works, while it's also well-suited for laypersons.  We can all benefit from Dr. Emoto's insights into how and why well-structured water is vital to life and vibrational harmony - and how we can use our own positive intent to transform water.	2005-06-11
US	51638416	RXTX7IEVUHQTZ	0923550453	583190544	DNA: Pirates of the Sacred Spiral	Books	5	105	115	N	Y	Lots Of Paradigm-Shifting Information	Dr. Len Horowitz's books have tackled some complex, controversial subjects, including shadow elite conspiratorial agendas, natural health, hidden information in Biblical texts, and vibrational medicine.  His present book delves into all these matters.  The information on physics, consciousness, quantum-holographic reality, vibrational sound, sacred geometry, water crystals, DNA, and holistic medicine in this book is fantastic and very current.  Horowitz's religious ideas seem a bit confused to me as he has put himself on a messianic mission to promote global health and overcome the global elite dark agendas that he has been uncovering.  He has seemingly become aligned with light polarity mystery school traditions connected to the Essene sects of the Biblical times.  There is much scientific and healing wisdom encoded in those traditions, although the beliefs about light defeating dark in an apocalyptic scenario are not suited to a book that is otherwise focused on sciences and healing research.  When I saw Dr. Horowitz speak in Miami very recently he referred to the conspiratorial activities he has been uncovering as \\"alien\\" to basic human values and compassion.  However, this author appears reluctant to touch upon the truly \\"ET\\" influences connected to the global elite and agendas at work to control humanity under totalitarian structures.  Dr. Horowitz is a fantastic researcher and provides a lot of valuable information - the spiritual or religious context in which these matters are considered is an issue that the author has felt compelled to interweave in his books.  I personally find the author's religious conclusions to be a bit of a drawback, but I can see how he perceives his mission as someone on a hero's journey to help light overcome darkness.  The science and health information in this book are more advanced than his previous works, and support a lot of the concepts I use in my own holistic healing work.  This is a book I commend highly even with the parts of it that I found to be focused on religious interpretations.of it that I found to be focused on religious interpretations.	2005-06-10
US	51638416	R2OCUGA02KIXJ6	0969582226	716585267	The Unbroken Field: The Power of Intention in Healing	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Broad presentation on mind-body-spirit system and healing	This book presents a nice examination of the mind-body-spirit feedback system that is the nature of our life and existence, providing insights and many case studies to show how this model can help facilitate healing processes.  Meditation, chakras, chi, 5 elements, archetypes, and other aspects of this system of consciousness-energy informing the perceived reality of form are addressed.  While there is a strong Chinese medicine component to this text there is a broader look at insights from intuitive sources and modern research in physics, consciousness, and subtle energy fields.  The author is thoughtful and expresses concepts clearly, presenting a paradigm for healing which supports the path toward wholeness and integration which is inherent in the essence of Consciousness/Awareness from which all things and realities arise.  This is a very worthy contribution to the mind-body healing field and related areas of exploration.	2005-05-28
US	51638416	R2J5N8IZG6T148	0953881067	254612235	Infinite Love Is the Only Truth: Everything Else Is Illusion	Books	5	175	180	N	Y	Icke's most impressive awareness expander so far	David Icke's new book picks up where the final section of his Tales From The Time Loop left off - in examining the nature of consciousness and reality.  There is less focus on the details of Illuminati history and more examination of how all is a virtual reality game - the \\"Matrix,\\" generated by Consciousness itself to challenge itself and explore the possibilities of existence when separation and limitation are the basis of perception.  Icke throws in a number of interesting photos, including his nude self from I am Me I am Free, Neil Hague's metaphysical art, holographic 3D images, and Dr. Emoto's water crystals as popularized by the What The Bleep Do We Know movie.  This book seems to me a positive step for Icke, but the title is problematic due to the nature of associations of the world \\"love.\\"  All things considered, this a great book to expand your mind with and help in deprogramming onself from the confines of this experiential reality matrix.  The illusions exist only as consciousness perceives itself in limited (filtered, programmed) ways.  Icke is a truly groundbreaking author in connecting holistic science, spiritual development, and research into dark polarity power structures.  By helping us understand these topics he has employed some nice wit and come to the realization that it's all an Illusion of sorts.  Nice work David!	2005-05-27
US	51638416	R296DDQX73L511	1879181479	927389071	Family of Light: Pleiadian Tales and Lessons in Living	Books	4	33	33	N	N	Quality channeled material that exposes the "dark"	This book is a continuation of the \\"Pleiadian\\" materials contained in Marciniak's previous books.  I found this book to be better and more focused than the previous ones.  It is focused on issues that many people are confronting in the era leading to the year 2012, giving a background to this story from the perspective of the channeled source that calls itself a multi-dimensional consciousness associated with the Pleiades star system.  This material addresses a lot of things related to how we need to reclaim our psychological freedom and get beyond all the dark-polarity control systems that humans are mired in.  It has lots of good information and insights - better than most channeled material around these days.  There is more and more tangible evidence to support many of the things this material exposes, although I don't concur 100% with everything said by the Pleidians.  By their own admission they are interacting with us as part of their learning experience, so they have their flaws in their ideas just as we all do.	2005-05-18
US	51638416	R2A6K8Y26T3JV3	1583940839	199069658	The Reincarnation of Edgar Cayce?: Interdimensional Communication and Global Transformation	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Lots of Interesting info, misleading title	Is David Wilcock incarnationally connected to Edgar Cayce?  That's the question proposed by the book title, but this book offers much more - a synthesis of physics and metaphysics along with the story of David Wilcock, who does seem to be one of the most credible and genuine psychics/channelers in our era.  The book attempts to cover multiple subjects associated with Wikcock, including his dream reading and prophetic material, his connection to Edgar Cayce and the channeled Law of One materials, and his integrative research into ascension and advanced physics concepts.  This really should have been a trilogy!  The scientific data in the latter parts of the book is excellent but incomplete - David's 3 online books present much of this more thoroughly.  The dream readings are also on the web site as well as some of the history of the association between Wilcock and Cayce.  This book puts a lot together but I would have liked to have seen more \\"new\\" material having been a visitor to Wilcock's web resources for several years.  If you haven't already seen the web resources this book is truly a great wealth of information to read.  I personally suspect that much of what is claimed about ascension in various sources is misleading, as it is based on identification with one's physical identity, so I wouldn't take even pretty solid psychic material like David Wilcock's as gospel truth - just a good source of insights and inspiration to incorporate in your spiritual development.	2005-04-28
US	51638416	R1MN0LAWU0DURK	0975424831	237462117	How Can I Heal What Hurts? (Healing Research, Vol. 2; Popular Edition) (Healing Research (Paperback)) (v. 2)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great Review Of Holistic Healing Research & Theories	Dr. Benor, a holistic psychiatrist, has compiled a comprehensive overview of the field of holistic health and the theories and research available on these topics.  This book is timely and full of excellent analysis and references.  Benor has done an impressive job of integrating information and covering a wide range of information to educate readers thoroughly about the topic.  This book is worthwhile for all healing professional as well as laypersons seeking information and resources.  This edition is the version of Consciousness, Bioenergy and Healing intended for the general public, although it appears to be primarily the same as the professional oriented version, just a bit less detailed in research documentation.  It is good to see that this author is publishing books on an ongoing basis to keep up with developments in the ever-expanding holistic healing domain.	2005-03-30
US	51638416	RXMX8ST9Y6ZLL	1931882312	211034403	Suns of God: Krishna, Buddha and Christ Unveiled	Books	5	132	149	N	Y	Brilliant Account Of Solar Symbolism In World Religions	Acharya S is a wonderful scholar who thoroughly ferrets out a picture of the truth behind the world's religions.  To a large extent, this truth is the symbolic mythology of astro-theology, which predates all major existing religious belief systems.  Acharya S provides extensive references and documentation of her contentions, exposing the lack of historicity for the personalities associated with major religions.  One one level, Jesus, Buddha, & Krishna, as well as other deities less significant to our modern era, are personified symbols of the Sun.  Reading this book along with her prior Christ Conspiracy is a double whammy that no religion defender will ever attempt to directly challenge.  Free your mind from literal acceptance of religious myths and plow through the deep scholarly soil of Acharya's Suns of God!  Then learn to connect with your real spiritual essence independent of mythology characters or astral spirits and thought forms who take on the mythic character roles.  After all, the Sun itself has been the symbol for the masculine aspect of the Supreme Source/Creator, so we can all learn to see the spiritual \\"Sun\\" of God as part of our own essence rather than misinterpreting the astro-theological drama of the Sun, Moon, Planets, & Zodiac that is encoded in religions.  I highly recommend Suns of God for its breadth of information and integration of important ideas and evidence.  There is an increasing flow of revelations arising about the topic of astrotheology and the secret wisdom, symbolism, and secret society/mystery school tradition - this book is one of the best of the genre.	2005-02-19
US	51638416	R1SJ21C8IHV20V	1904126006	342995545	The Shining Ones: The World's Most Powerful Secret Society Revealed	Books	4	40	47	N	N	Good overview of the occult knowledge tradition	I purchased this book in its original UK release, intrigued by the topic and description from the publisher.  Upon reading the book I found it to be a good overview of the topic, but somewhat superficial and incomplete at times, as it does make a solid general case about the tradition of shamanic knowledge being held and passed on via an initiatory power structure, without providing great depth of analysis.  This is a complex topic that could cover several volumes of text without being fully examined, so this is a useful introductory study.  For fuller examination of the topic I prefer books by David Icke, Jordan Maxwell, Acharya S, Malik Jabbar, and Michael Tsarion.  In my view the Shining Ones is indeed an ancient tradition that goes into the midsts of time to ET colonization of Earth and the establishment of social control structures that witheld knowledge from the masses, extending to the present day \\"Illuminati\\" power structure that many authors and whistleblowers allude to.	2005-01-30
US	51638416	R11PVV15PNWO7W	1594770425	469068677	Science and the Akashic Field: An Integral Theory of Everything	Books	5	110	125	N	N	Integrates advanced ideas in consciousness & cosmology	Ervin Laszlo is a highly honored and respected scholar.  His new book examines the most advanced ideas in physics, cosmology, metaphysics, and consciousness research.  This is a book that is highly readable and suitable for the layperson.  Ancient wisdom and modern research in physics and consciousness are brought together as the author seeks to help us recognize the underlying coherence and integration of Creation.  Non-local consciousness is found to be intrinsic to the nature of reality, allowing us to understand many phenomena that challenge the common illusion of linear, material existence.  This is not a lengthy or overly technical book - it focuses more on examining concepts and piecing them together to form a deeper, more encompassing view of Life and Creation.  I highly recommend this book as an introduction or summary of what the most aware thinkers of our world have to teach us.	2004-11-15
US	51638416	R3FB7TBY37L0LM	0892811285	347445319	The Edison Gene: ADHD and the Gift of the Hunter Child	Books	4	49	52	N	N	Thoughtful Look At ADHD, Goes Beyond The Title	Thom Hartmann is one of our society's most articulate expositors of progressive and non-conformist social and spiritual ideas.  It is no coincidence that he has written extensively on the topic of \\"ADHD,\\" a label that by definition is given to people (especially children) who don't conform to the rules and demands of their environments.<br /><br />This book starts with Hartmann's previously proposed idea that ADHD traits are consistent with a human genetic factor that was adaptive for \\"hunters\\" in the course of human evolution.  He points out how many non-conformists in history became great inventors, leaders, and innovators, precisely because they were not forced to conform to prevailing dogmas and customs.<br /><br />Rightly, Hartmann sees the current desire to force conformity as a dangerous threat to individuality and progress.<br /><br />Hartmann recognizes that those labeled ADHD are often more sensitive and reactive than the norm, and need supportive conditions to help them flourish.  The \\"negative\\" side of ADHD traits is most likely to appear when children are abused or over-stressed rather than nurtured.  I would have liked to have seen this book go into more depth and provide more of the existing documentation about the various holistic approaches to helping those labeled ADHD thrive rather than be drugged and treated as disordered.  The flaws and dangers of orthodox ways of responding to ADHD traits/behaviors could have also been explored further, although there are other books that cover that ground well and which lack the broad scope and perspective provided by Hartmann.<br /><br />Overall, this book provides a lot of great insights.  It recognizes those labeled ADHD as unique individuals with a variety of strengths and talents, and encourages society to examine itself and to learn from those seen as ADHD, rather than seeing ADHD behaviors as a disorder to suppress.  The interaction of individual traits with various environmental conditions can yield behaviors and patterns that often get labeled ADHD.  This gives the thoughtful person an opportunity to look for ways of helping the individual AND the society grow toward greater balance and maturity.  There is much greater depth to consciousness, motivation, and creation than conventional paradigms consider, and authors like Thom Hartmann help us look beyond the surface to explore our greater potential and resist the urge to accept conformity and denial.that often get labeled ADHD.  This gives the thoughtful person an opportunity to look for ways of helping the individual AND the society grow toward greater balance and maturity.  There is much greater depth to consciousness, motivation, and creation than conventional paradigms consider, and authors like Thom Hartmann help us look beyond the surface to explore our greater potential and resist the urge to accept conformity and denial.	2004-11-13
US	51638416	R1L2L70R9OZA75	0971394202	70373676	Everything You Know Is Wrong: The Disinformation Guide to Secrets and Lies	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Interesting Assortment Of Censored Info & Views	This compilation of \\"Disinfo\\" challenging articles is varied and not directed toward any specific consensus other than the notion that various special interests manipulate information presented to the public for self-serving agendas.  Some of the articles that challenge conventional views about social phenomena were very insightful, as was the section on the authoritarian socialist agenda guiding the educational system.  The articles about political issues like 9-11 seemed rather short and could have dug deeper into these topics.  Whether or not you agree with the various ideas expressed in this book you will find some things that challenge you to expand your views and understandings on some issues.  Perhaps you will even take the time to research and explore some of the topics in greater depth in other sources.  After all, if people made the effort to educate themselves and not rely on \\"experts\\" and \\"authorities\\" to tell them what to think then there might not be a need for a book that tells us \\"Everything You Know Is Wrong.\\"	2004-10-04
US	51638416	RQ4OE0BH6IHOD	1579830137	51321992	Inside Job: Unmasking the 9/11 Conspiracies	Books	5	173	205	N	N	Well-documented analysis of the 9-11 events	Jim Marrs is a veteran journalist who isn't afraid to examine topics that are suppressed by institutions of power.  In this book, Jim joins the growing number of authors who have challenged the official tale of the events of September 11, 2001, making the case that the evidence points to the attacks being an inside job.  The motives, methods, and plans are all presented for the reader, incriminating those in power in the USA.  Nearly 3 years after the attacks, Jim Marrs has collected much information [most of which can be quickly found on the Internet on websites of the many independent researchers of 9-11 and related shadowy activities].  One would have to create a very bizarre and improbable conspiracy theory to attempt to deny the main assertion Marrs presents in this book.  Jim Marrs deserves credit for collecting the available research and presenting it coherently for the public to examine.  Marrs book has garnered the praise of persons such as John \\"Men Are From Mars\\" Gray and Catherine Austin Fitts, the whistleblower who has been a victim of those who she once served as assistant housing secretary in the Bush Sr. Administration.  Hopefully, more public figures will soon begin to acknowledge the criminal nature of our leaders and encourage the public to reclaim control over the country from the existing power structure.  Until then, enjoy books like this one and let the mainstream media folks know that they are merely acting as press-titutes when they spout \\"official\\" tales rather than reporting what really happened.	2004-09-15
US	51638416	R19DHARQSZI264	0974338109	162251314	Order out of Chaos (Order out of Chaos - Elite Sponsored Terrorism & the NEW World Order)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Overview of the global elites' methods and agendas	Watson, creator of the propagandamatrix.com website, has compiled his research into a book.  His ideas parallel those of Texas radio host Alex Jones, and you would basically get the same facts and theories presented to you watching some of Jones' videos.  Watson examines the history of the Hegelian dialectic applied to social manipulation and the use of problem-reaction-solution schemes to move the \\"New World Order\\" agenda forward.  There isn't much new here for those already familiar with these topics, while Watson does a solid job of laying out the evidence for his views.	2004-09-14
US	51638416	R30ROFIKUVQHRH	0966353323	614471182	Blood Lines of the Illuminati	Books	4	52	79	N	N	Intriguing research, controversial author	Fritz Springmeier has written this text as a history of the major families of the global elite, aka \\"Illuminati.\\"  Springmeier has written other books about the mind control techniques of this network and ways of helping deprogram those who have been victims of the cult.  Fritz has done an impressive job of tracing the history of these families and their activities, while he is limited in his approach by his apparent \\"Christian Patriot\\" beliefs.  The author perceives the Illuminati as a satanic cult out to destroy Judaeo-Christian beliefs and believers.  Springmeier has also been jailed due to alleged involvement in a bank robbery carried out by an anti-government Christian group, and some people have questioned his activities and motives in his deprogramming of cult victims.  While this book has excellent research and insights into history, I find the Christian-Biblical spin limiting.  I am inclined to suspect that it is by design that many of those blowing the whistle on Illuminati/NWO conspiratorial activity are of a fundamentalist Christian slant.  Since I am convinced that Christianity and the Bible have been to a great extent developed and compiled by Illuminist factions, it makes sense that a dialectic could be set up through programmed persons so that a \\"Christian\\" element would try to expose and combat the \\"Pagan\\" \\"New Age\\" Illuminist movement, both based on distorted belief systems that facilitate giving power away to centralized authorities or false external deities.  Thus, I would consider this book useful for historical research and insight into elite global management methods while encouraging readers to be wary of the writer's theological perspective.	2004-09-14
US	51638416	R1HXOKU18HS42P	1561707929	239822002	Heal Your Body A-Z: The Mental Causes for Physical Illness and the Way to Overcome Them	Books	5	51	56	N	Y	Handy Alphabetical Guide For Mind-Body Healing	This book is a handy, concise guide to the psycho-spiritual issues commonly connected to physical symptoms and illnesses.  This material is present in some of the author's other books, but is nicely organized and compiled here for easy access.  Louise has done excellent work in helping collect insights from the metaphysical healing field to help readers learn to heal themselves using the clues provided by the mind-body feedback system.	2004-09-14
US	51638416	R1T3JUBKCEMZQB	0971004218	945493404	Bushwhacked: Inside Stories of True Conspiracy	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Good introduction to conspiracy lore	Uri Dowbenko is a clever journalist, and here he has compiled many of the most interesting conspiracy topics of the present era.  From Bush family frauds, MK-ULTRA/Monarch mind control, and the bogus war on drugs, to the reptilian revelations of UK author David Icke & Zulu Historian Credo Mutwa, Uri provides an introduction to the materials of several other notable researchers/journalists.  This book is somewhat lacking in a coherent sequence or organization, but it does provide a lot of interesting information and is a useful text to examine before reading materials of some of the author's sources, which are more lengthy and in-depth than Dowbenko's articles and chapters.	2004-07-15
US	51638416	R3IW0RWX5QWR91	1931882185	89582254	Pirates and the Lost Templar Fleet: The Secret Naval War Between the Knights Templar and the Vatican	Books	5	17	28	N	N	Impressive objective historical research and insights	Childress, independent historian and adventurer, has really done his best to provide a thorough, insightful exploration of the history of the Knights Templar.  This necessarily covers many other vital historical issues, from the crusades and Islamic &quot;Assassins&quot; to the Scottish Rite Masons and the American Revolution.  Childress examines the interactions of the Templars with the Assassins during the crusades as well as with European Monarchies over successive centuries.  He provides much detail and many photos and pictures regarding the cartographic resources of the Templars.  A full examination of the identity of Christopher &quot;Columbus&quot; is provided, and readers will even discover which Templar leader was one of several persons to be &quot;President&quot; of the U.S.A. prior to the ratification of the Constitution and election of George Washington.  This author is very rational and attempts to be objective about important historical issues, making his book on the Templars one of the best.  Whether you are new to this topic or have read other works, this book is informative and highly readable.	2004-07-13
US	51638416	R32XNN840SPXCS	193049100X	699594281	Matter into Feeling: A New Alchemy of Science and Spirit	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Quantum Physics meets Kabbalah &amp; Mysticism	Fred Alan Wolf has written many books about the new physics and the spiritual implications of theories and empirical findings in physics.  Here, he expands his musings into the realm of Hebrew kabbalah, where he correlates the Hebrew letters and Kabbalistic ideas about the path of spirit into matter/form with physics concepts such as parallel universes, holographic perception, quantum non-locality, observer effects, and quantum uncertainty.  It's all very interesting, although the marriage of quantum physics with kabbalah seemed a bit forced to me.  I appreciate that Wolf has tried to examine the role of emotion in the mind-body-spirit feedback system, although his exploration seems incomplete and his focus on kabbalah may be distracting for those seeking a more science-oriented approach.  I also wonder why Wolf still accepts the theory of the &quot;Big Bang,&quot; when both empirical observations and hyperdimensional concepts of physics seem to contradict the Big Bang notion.  Other than these flaws, which don't significantly affect the main ideas and information in the book, this is an excellent contribution to the literature in the area of spirituality, consciousness, and theoretical physics.	2004-07-10
US	51638416	R3CWKYNCF4ZYKF	1579549020	449215940	The Instinct to Heal: Curing Stress, Anxiety, and Depression Without Drugs and Without Talk Therapy	Books	4	12	20	N	N	A fresh approach to emotional healing	This book provides some useful insights and empirical data concerning the importance and efficacy of mind-body &quot;alternative&quot; approaches to relieving mental health difficulties.  It focuses on the importance of the subconscious mind and related brain hemisphere in the nature of these issues, explaining why conventional approaches may have limited utility in addressing issues that are embedded in a realm that is not addressed by standard therapies.  This book examines Chi/Qi-based therapies, EMDR, nutritional therapies, and other common holistic approaches that have helped many resolve emotional issues and distress.  This book is an important contribution, although it is somewhat restrained in getting to the heart of certain matters.  It does not really address the issue of whether the mind is a metaphysical construct that merely uses the brain as an interface or is a product of the brain [parapsychology research and related scientific investigations have clearly shown that the mind is not a product of the brain].  It also fails to meaningfully consider the possible hazards and ethical violations associated with drug treatments for mental health issues, as most health care professionals are reluctant to admit that what they have been practicing may contribute to unnecessary harmful effects for patients.  This book, coming from a physician who has been immersed in the worlds of both modern western medicine and various old and new techniques of holistic medicine, should be a wake up call for many physicians and mental health professionals.  With psychotherapies being not any more beneficial than having regular support from caring laypersons and drug therapies merely suppressing symptoms and often presenting further confusion and hazards to an already disturbed mind-body system, it is important for people to become aware of a more sound, holistic understanding of mental health treatment, which includes some simple techniques and interventions that don't even require an outside professional to apply.  The present dominant mental health system often uses extensive and costly resources to maintain problems rather than to resolve them - isn't it a wonderful idea to make changes that would empower and heal patients while lowering health care costs?quire an outside professional to apply.  The present dominant mental health system often uses extensive and costly resources to maintain problems rather than to resolve them - isn't it a wonderful idea to make changes that would empower and heal patients while lowering health care costs?	2004-07-02
US	51638416	RRP3DJKKT1YL3	1570628602	281250397	Healing Beyond the Body: Medicine and the Infinite Reach of the Mind	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Wise, compassionate look at consciousness &amp; healing	Larry Dossey is a prolofic writer and researcher on holistic healing, and in this book he assembles a number of articles and essays in support of a cohesive concept.  Dossey invites the reader to explore the power of consciousness for healing transformation.  The different sections in the book sometimes refer to scientific theories and research, some of which would usually be considered in the realm of parapsychology, such as remote influencing, healing with prayer, non-local telepathic communication, etc.  However, the focus is more on how these concepts can be applied in our lives to bring about healing.  Dossey helps us peer beyond the veil of illusion we call &quot;reality&quot; to help us connect with the source of our being and the power of mind/consciousness to transform.  Having practiced mind-body/enegy medicine approaches such as hypnosis, reiki, and neuromodulation technique, I have experienced the power of the non-local consciousness to create healing shifts in a manner that would appear magical or unbelievable to those convinced of the solid, objective nature of perceived reality.  It is much easier to &quot;bend spoons&quot; when one lets go of the illusion that there is any objective spoon in the first place!  Enjoy this book and begin to put into practice the ideas and methods that unlock the power of consciousness.	2004-06-26
US	51638416	R1TMJXA7X7ANB6	0385506724	283863984	A Pretext for War: 9/11, Iraq, and the Abuse of America's Intelligence Agencies	Books	3	10	37	N	N	Lengthy collection of half-truths, inconsistent research	Bamford has put together a text that alleges U.S. Intelligence operations have been politicized, allowing intelligence gathering and security to break down and miss opportunities to prevent the 9-11 events while the Bush administration sought to prepare a case for attacking Iraq.  The apparent thesis of this book blatantly ignores the obvious possibility that having 9-11 occur was itself part of the plan to facilitate an attack on Iraq, making the 9-11 attacks an intelligence &quot;success&quot; rather than a failure from the perspective of those guiding U.S. &quot;National Security.&quot;  This is ironic considering Bamford is the author of Body of Secrets, a book that describes Operation Northwoods, a plan in the early 1960's to stage terror attacks on American targets and blame them on Cuba as a pretext for invading Cuba to overthrow Castro.  Thus, Bamford's analysis of 9-11 and the drive toward the Iraq war turns out to be distorted to ignore the most disturbing conclusions and the evidence that would support the idea that 9-11 was an inside job.  While Bamford has documented some aspects of the warped motives of the Bush administration and its benefactors and directors, he spins his thesis to ignore the full extent of treachery and criminality behind the U.S. Government and global power structures.  Intelligence operations have always served the agendas and security of those controlling the agencies and associated military-industrial-occult cabals rather than the safety and interests of ordinary citizens.  Bamford has exposed this to some degree, but for unknown reasons he does not pursue a full examination of how intelligence operations function.	2004-06-23
US	51638416	RSDI5OIX15H9	041593589X	735159762	Trancework: An Introduction to the Practice of Clinical Hypnosis	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Excellent Intro text for Hypnosis study	This book is a great text to use for learning about hypnosis or to teach hypnosis to students.  It is thorough, covering every significant issue that a typical hypnosis practitioner would deal with, and it presents a careful, balanced examination of many issues that are often misrepresented by either proponents or critics of hypnosis and hypnotherapy.  The current edition (3rd) seems very well organized and conceptualized, and is pretty well updated about neuroscience correlates of hypnotic states.  Yapko clearly wishes to make hypnosis a well-respected healing practice, and attempts to present hypnosis in a well-developed context that allows readers to see the many potential benefits of using hypnotic techniques as well as the possible hazards of misrepresenting or misapplying hypnosis.  This is a well-researched, comprehensive, and well-rounded presentation of hypnosis which should serve many hypnosis practitioners well.  It is hard to find a book on hypnosis of this quality, with most books on the topic focusing more on techniques and exalting the power of hypnosis than on addressing the many professional issues and contexts that practitioners will have to work with.  The only significant fault in this book I can point out is the title, as Yapko proceeds to explain why he is not happy with the word &quot;trance&quot; as a descriptor for states of consciousness appearing during hypnosis.  Perhaps he will decide on a new title the next time this text is updated.  Meanwhile, Trancework is a book that sets a high standard for Hypnosis texts.	2004-06-23
US	51638416	R3E1930ZORTG8A	157224352X	527517586	Transforming Anger: The Heartmath Solution for Letting Go of Rage, Frustration, and Irritation	Books	5	65	72	N	N	Timely exploration of mind-body emotional health	This book builds on the most recent research from the Institute of HeartMath about the connections between the heart, nervous system, and emotional processing.  It promotes a type of biofeedback application called FreezeFrame which uses heart rhythm coherence monitoring with emotional skill-building techniques to help handle anger, anxiety, and other negative emotional reactions.  By integrating the body (especially the heart and nervous system) with subconscious emotional processing and conscious awareness a holistic model of resolving emotional issues is outlined.  This approach is quite valuable, and both experimental and clinical evidence are increasingly showing the superiority of mind-body approaches as compared to drugs and talk-oriented therapies.  A new book by a University of Pittsburgh doctor called &quot;Instinct To Heal&quot; discusses this trend further.  In fact, my own clinical observations lead me to conclude that medications tend to perpetuate psychological difficulties, as they merely repress natural symptoms produced by the mind-body feedback system and often trigger further impairment of internal balancing mechanisms.  Just as people can feel &quot;better&quot; while they are taking alcohol and other recreational drugs [especially when they have ongoing access to drugs to avoid the withdrawal phase], people will often feel better under the influence of prescribed psychotropics, not realizing that they are just suppressing a natural feedback system and temporarily escaping from an opportunity for healing and integration.  Once the drugs wear off you can have major problems in addition to any immediate adverse effects that may have been triggered by drug use.  Fortunately, HeartMath techniques can be used with or without medications or any other types of therapies and interventions, and I suspect that they would be very useful in helping people wean themselves from drugs by helping restore the body's natural coherence and regulatory abilities.  The HeartMath approach can provide lasting emotional healing and is supported by solid research, some of which has significant implications about the nature of consciousness and reality that challenge status quo beliefs in the healing arts and sciences.  This book explains the HeartMath research and therapeutic approach clearly, and anyone seeking more information about the technology and software can visit the Institute's web site.e HeartMath approach can provide lasting emotional healing and is supported by solid research, some of which has significant implications about the nature of consciousness and reality that challenge status quo beliefs in the healing arts and sciences.  This book explains the HeartMath research and therapeutic approach clearly, and anyone seeking more information about the technology and software can visit the Institute's web site.	2004-06-23
US	51638416	RTP3RU8T9N0KE	1582701148	708651576	The Hidden Messages in Water	Books	4	266	327	N	N	Intriguing Research on Healing, Consciousness, & Energy	This is a repackaged version of the research and photos of Dr. Emoto that were originally in a set of books that included a Japanese version of the text.  This research has been popularized by a number of holistic health practitioners and new science/new thought metaphysical advocates.  Emoto's evidence is very impressive, although I don't think he fully understands how the water reacts to its environment in some instances, such as the response of water to specific words.  Words are energetically connected to human concepts, so the word actually transmits the concept/idea/feeling that people associate it with rather than the word actually having an energy apart from the consciousness of those who have used the word.  If everyone suddenly decided that \\"satan\\" \\"devil\\" and \\"Hitler\\" were positive forces then those words could become positive influences on water.  Water is inherently a neutral compound - neutral pH, etc., which is perfect for transmitting energy and information without corrupting the information.  Emoto has done wonderful work examining water all over the world and seeing how water reacts to a variety of environmental stimuli.  Follow-up controlled research would be useful to examine how human beliefs, intentions, and consciusness may influence how water responds to various tangible or recordable stimuli.  This book is valuable even just for the water crystal photos throughout the book, and should inspire more people with materialistic, mechanistic views to expand their awareness.	2004-06-18
US	51638416	R3SADJQX42HAGY	1571743243	730013521	The Lost Secret of Death: Our Divided Souls and the Afterlife	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Thorough, Provocative Examination of Consciousness	I first became familiar with Novak's work when he contacted me to suggest I visit the website he had built in association with his first book on &quot;Division Theory&quot; and add it to the directory of online resources I maintain for a variety of paranormal, metaphysical, and spiritual topics.  His first book was impressive, displaying excellent integration of many sources into a cohesive theory about consciousness and the death experience.  This current book expands and refines the initial ideas and is more comprehensive and powerful an assessment of the topic.  There are certainly questions left unanswered here, and I find the theory to be incomplete in some ways, which all theories must be, since theories can only describe what is perceived from a particlar level of awareness or perception.  This is truly an exceptional book for anyone involved in metaphysical and psychological exploration, as it explains the distinction between soul and spirit, conscious and unconscious, and how they each continue when separated from the physical body.	2004-06-16
US	51638416	R3REIXSJ8JDXUS	0826413153	256158632	Commonsense Rebellion: Taking Back Your Life from Drugs, Shrinks, Corporations, and a World Gone Crazy	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Challenging authoritarian institutions...	This book presents a brief examination of several issues in which social institutions and authoritarian structures in society are disempowering and exploiting people.  The author has a readable style that tends to interconnect the various topics he explores.  Unfortunately, each topic is worthy of a whole book and this text can only briefly examine the issues involved.  Interestingly, if common sense were truly common then there would be no need for a &quot;rebellion&quot; against institutional non-sense.  Having been in the mental health field, which this book focuses on a great deal, I concur that this field has the blind leading the blind in many instances, particularly in the case of pharmacotherapy and behavior modification.  Unfortunately, people in general are irresponsible, insecure, and eager to give their power over to bogus authorities and faulty belief systems.  Kudos to this book for helping people reclaim their power and stirring some critical thinking.	2004-06-16
US	51638416	R2CP5KCB7ZMFIT	1931882053	833904883	The Shadow Government: 9-11 and State Terror	Books	4	17	19	N	Y	Interesting preliminary analysis of the 9-11 events	Bracken, an unconventional conspiracy author who seems inspired by Robert Anton Wilson at times has thrown his hat into the ring of anti-establishment theories surrounding the 9-11 attack.  This is not at all an exhaustive or definitive look at the events on the day and surrounding the attacks.  Bracken's theories are logical - far more so than the U.S. Administration's theories that are full of internal contradiction and lacking in evidence other than hearsay or planted items.  Evidence that would confirm the government story is conspicuously lacking - either non-existent (like black boxes which would be present after an actual jet crash), destroyed, or kept secret (like the surveillance cam focused on the Pentagon which likely revealed that the plane hitting the target was actually a holographic projection cloaking a missile).  More and more people who objectively examine the evidence and information available have concluded that 9-11 was an inside job.  Those who refuse to even consider this possibility have earned a cruise along &quot;d&quot; Nile.  Bracken is a talented writer, although his style is not ideally suited to a straight historical research book.  This is a solid book, but there are better books available detailing the information surrounding the September 11 saga.	2004-06-13
US	51638416	R1FTK12S2OWLG1	0807032468	353023544	Teaching the Restless: One School's Remarkable no-Ritalin Approach to Helping Children Learn and Succeed	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Caring, Articulate Insights For Nurturing Children	This book is a caring, compassionate examination of what's amiss in our educational and medical systems' approach to non-conforming children.  Mercogliano offers his extensive experience and insights to explain how children can grow into motivated learners when they are given a non-threatening, non-repressive, and caring environment.  Having worked several years as a mental health clinician I have seen how accurate this author's insights are and how disempowering and counterproductive the expedient, coercive approaches to challenging children are.  When a physician says a child needs psychotropic medication that person is basically acknowledging that they are ignorant about how to truly help and they wish to repress the symptoms to appear that they are able to offer a solution or to conform with what all the other misguided \\"professionals\\" have been indoctrinated into doing.  When you rely on unnatural behavior modification systems and disruptive synthetic chemicals to control a child's attention and behavior you are likely to impair that child's natural self-expression, intrinsic motivation, and internal regulation of biochemistry.  It's wonderful to see a knowledgeable teacher offering insights into how to help children in a caring supportive way and to shun the demonstrably erroneous beliefs that some children \\"need\\" drugs that artificially manipulate chemistry in fundamentally the same ways as illicit drugs that children would get in trouble for using.	2004-06-13
US	51638416	R8ZX3ORXQ9MO4	1879605449	275858484	The Secret of Light	Books	5	110	113	N	Y	Exceptional Blend of Science &amp; Metaphysics	Walter Russell accessed an extensive amount of knowledge and insights during his mystical awakening.  He wrote extensively about his understandings and related scientific, philosophical, and metaphysical subjects.  In this book, he talks about the nature of creation, light, life, polarity, balance, electricity, gravity, radiation, waves &amp; vibration, and the imagination and thought projections of the Creator.  These are truly some weighty topics, but Walter's text is clear and informative, even when he gets into technical topics.  This book is quite enlightening and actually better than some more popular metaphysical texts.  The electric universe concept is truly brilliant, and Walter Russell's understanding of creation greatly exceeded most of what scientists erroneously believe, based upon their perceptions colored by persistent illusion.  The &quot;new&quot; physics is just catching up with Russsell's ideas.	2004-06-12
US	51638416	R13AGYXBHOI3PT	1893183254	504341925	2: Voyagers II: Secrets of Amenti	Books	3	59	71	N	N	Mass of confusing esoteric information &amp; history	Ashayana Deane, previously writing under the name Anna Hayes and previously known as &quot;Katie&quot; has put together a history of Earth and compilation of extraterrestrial science and metaphysical ideas that appears impressive, though confusing at first look.  The more I go through her materials the more they seem like propaganda for some secret society or ET faction - lots of potentially accurate details being used to carry a deception or manipulation into the reader's consciousness.  There is an excessive focus on galactic politics and how they have played out in the conflicts over Earth.  The Keylontic science stuff seems to have some validity, but in my opinion misses the deepest levels of reality and healing - consciousness and spiritual awareness/integration.  Aliens with holographic technology who can interdimensionally abduct people and create artificial reality and illusions seem like control freaks [regardless of whether they believe they are acting for someone else's good] who need to learn to be in harmony with creative flow and basic spiritual principles.  With all the ETs and entities who claim they wish to help humanity against the &quot;dark&quot; powers, why do they just communicate with a small sample of people instead of offering their help to the general population?  I strongly encourage a read of the Matrix 5 books by Valerian for those who are prepared to explore this further.  This author of the Voyagers books seems to be caught in the midst of a galactic/global power struggle among beings preoccupied with shaping this space-time reality to their liking.  This is certainly interesting stuff and better than most ET contactee materials, but I would not accept the contents at face value.  There are certainly some useful ideas about personal empowerment in this book, yet these are accompanied by ritualistic belief systems of a more subtle nature that may keep you from exploring your true self more fully.	2004-06-11
US	51638416	R1PZAN8HCJZ4EE	0812906241	584552521	America B.C.: Ancient Settlers in the New World	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Intriguing ideas, warrant further examination	Tales of Europeans settling in or visiting America before the Christian era have been around for a long time.  Some of them are really hard to dispute.  Barry Fell has assembled a collection of evidence that would seem to support these ideas.  While some of his evidence and conclusions are questionable, his overall ideas are clear and have been increasingly validated since the publication of this book.  There are many anomalous archaeological finds and linguistic correspondences that indicate episodic contact between the Americas and cultures of Europe/Africa/Middle East, from both the Pre-Columbus era and the Pre-Christian era, including artifacts associated with the Egyptian and Hebrew cultures and also the Phoenician and Sumerian cultures.  The only alternate explanation (which I suspect is valid in some cases) is extraterrestrial influence on cultures from both sides of the Atlantic or common influences from an Atlantean era culture. Barry Fell's ideas are definitely a starting point for those looking to expand their concepts about the history of civilization and the Americas.	2004-06-10
US	51638416	R3AMSDLHJQ7T35	0722538235	156297135	Virtual Medicine: A New Dimension in Energy Healing: Discover Where Ancient Wisdom Meets Breakthrough Technology	Books	5	31	32	N	Y	Excellent Exploration Of Vibrational Healing &amp; Info-medicine	This book does an excellent job of examining the history of ideas and technologies associated with the field of energetic medicine.  How energy and information &quot;create&quot; our reality are key issues in this field, as well as how the energy and intentions of the healer are involved in the healing process.  This author examines a variety of issues, from how information is communicated with homeopathic and chinese medicine therapies to how new technologies can electrically measure the body's reaction to numerous stimuli and prescribe remedies to help the body regain balance.  The ideas of m-fields (Sheldrake) and the notion of a holographic &quot;implicate order&quot; or collective field of consciousness underlying creation are also considered.  This book is a very timely contribution to the scientific examination of holistic and energetic healing approaches - I'm surprised that it is currently out of print (in the USA).  Maybe it's still published in the UK - I got a used copy via an Amazon marketplace seller.	2004-03-01
US	51638416	R6F6V04R47RJP	0553344803	957127941	Beyond the Quantum	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Thoughtful Guide to the &quot;New&quot; Physics	Having previously read Talbot's Holographic Universe, I just happened upon a used copy of this now out-of-print classic, Beyond the Quantum.  This book very clearly and provocatively explores the science and the theoretical implications that are developing in the fields of physics and consciousness.  From Bohm to Sheldrake to the Eastern mystics, Talbot has written an excellent overview of this mind-expanding field of study.  In 2004 this book still seems fresh with ideas and insight, and explains things clearly for a general audience, not just those with a scientific background.	2004-02-12
US	51638416	RI9I80SSKKBGT	1572305606	911940074	Taking Charge of ADHD: The Complete, Authoritative Guide for Parents (Revised Edition)	Books	1	47	107	N	N	A misguided, debilitating approach to ADHD	Back in 1996 I was at a CE seminar presented by Barkley, a smooth talker with lots of fancy graphics and research references, not to mention ties with pharmaceutical drug marketers.  However, most of what he presents is distorted, superficial, and contains numerous false statements about the implications of research and about the causes and treatments of ADHD symptoms.  Barkley is still \\"bark\\"ing up the same tree he was several years ago, making money by telling people what they wish to hear to absolve themselves of any responsibility in having fostered ADHD behaviors, or having to do anything more than use some fancy reward system sold by Barkley's associates or dispense some pill marketed by Barkley's benefactors. Barkley's approach has become widely adopted, thereby perpetuating the patterns of behavior labeled ADHD.  Barkley's behavioral approach discourages thinking and creativity in children, instead making them focus on rewards and discipline, making their lives more stressful.  The reward systems he recommends are also flawed from a behavioral psychology perspective, as psychologist David Stein has observed, and actually promote continued ADHD behaviors in a significant portion of children.  This system is so flawed it's no wonder that the studies show drugs suppress ADHD behaviors better than Barkley's behavior management approaches.  Unfortunately, the drugs can either aggravate ADHD symptoms over the long term or promote depression, bipolar, or obsessive-compulsive symptoms, depending upon the individual's internal reaction to the ingestion of disruptive chemicals.  Barkley ignores better behavioral and parenting approaches as well as research confirming the benefits of approaches like neurofeedback, massage, acupuncture, nutritional supplements, sensory integration therapies, progressive educational settings, and treating for adverse reactions to exposure to environmental hazards, such as heavy metals, allergens, processed food ingredients, and synthetic chemicals.  ADHD is a label for a pattern of behavior that is typical of a tendency to not filter stimuli as social settings often require, with a great many factors influencing the development of this pattern, and a great many factors having the potential to help the individual shift toward a more socially acceptable pattern of filtering stimuli, without suppressing one's ability to be creative, intuitive, or spontaneous.  Barkley's approach does nothing about underyling factors contributing to the dominant pattern of diminished filtering, and directs the person to be highly reliant on external controls and manipulations, since Barkley assumes there is some inherent biological abnormality in people labeled ADHD, ignoring the interaction between the individual's personality, genetic potentials, social environment, biochemical environment, and educational environment.  If you took a brain scan of someone with an ADHD label you could match it with patterns found in scans of anyone, depending upon what mood, activity, or state of focus they are in at the moment of the scan.  Only 24 hour monitoring of brain activity would have any relevance to assessing ADHD patterns, and even then it would only show a pattern of brain activity initiated by psychological and chemical factors, which are variable, just like behaviors are.  Barkley has no clue what the brain really is - a transceiver/transducer for information processing between the mind/spirit and the body embedded in the physical reality matrix.  Conscious and subconscious psychological factors greatly influence the pattern of activity exhibited in the brain, as do nutrition and drug ingestion.  Barkley promotes external locus of control, assuming something is inherently/genetically \\"wrong\\" in persons exhibiting ADHD patterns of behavior and attentional filtering.  More enlightened approaches help the individual develop self-mastery in balancing their body, mind, and emotions to facilitate any desired state of consciousness, recognizing that taking in great amounts of stumuli data or seeking out the most exciting or novel stimulus to focus attention on is not a defect, but a way of interacting with the environment that may need to be used less frequently in order to function in some settings.  If you want your child to be a drug dependent, order-following worker, then follow Barkley's approach.  If you want your child to be intelligent, creative, thoughtful, and self-empowered, then I suggest you look at some holistic approaches.sness, recognizing that taking in great amounts of stumuli data or seeking out the most exciting or novel stimulus to focus attention on is not a defect, but a way of interacting with the environment that may need to be used less frequently in order to function in some settings.  If you want your child to be a drug dependent, order-following worker, then follow Barkley's approach.  If you want your child to be intelligent, creative, thoughtful, and self-empowered, then I suggest you look at some holistic approaches.	2004-01-21
US	51638416	R4B21TQKNPDGA	1887128840	969948196	Fortunate Son: George W. Bush and the Making of an American President	Books	3	23	28	N	N	An interesting look at the orchestration of &quot;W&quot;'s success	Hatfield has written a relatively unbiased account of the rise of George W. Bush to the presidency.  He apparently upset some folks by exploring certain issues that have been covered up by mainstream journalists and image-makers, such as George W.'s apparent cocaine use and protection from legal consequences, and the manner in which his business failures were obscured by wealthy benefactors.  There are other books that provide far more information about Bush family misdeeds and the occult background to this family, as Hatfield was not an author with background in censored history or occult agendas when he took on this project.  Unfortunately, Hatfield is now deceased following an alleged suicide.  Perhaps another brave author will do a bio of Hatfield and look into the details of his life and death.  This book is a good introduction to the Bush dynasty for those who recognize that the wealthy Bush supporters and media are covering up the true nature of the family, family connections, family &quot;business&quot; activities, and the elite agendas the Bushes are a part of.	2004-01-13
US	51638416	R1592BQ68MBERU	1887424148	829749843	Attention Deficit Disorder: A Different Perception	Books	3	28	45	N	N	ADD as a coping style suited to hunters...	Hartmann has written a popular series of books related to ADD/ADHD by introducing an empowering perspective to those labeled ADD/ADHD.  Since ADD/ADHD is based on labeling behaviors rather than identifying any physiological abnormality, Hartmann's view is quite sensible to some extent.  In our current environment, these behaviors are usually seen as maladaptive and bring adults to treat children with these behaviors in a negative way.  Ironically, it is the high level of stress in our environment that has been associated with triggering ADD symptoms - violent media directed at children, stress on status and achievement, disruptive family patterns, toxins, additives, and stimulants in foods, beverages, and the environment, etc.  In this stressful environment many people develop the coping strategies and physioloigcal symptoms that would be expected from someone that has been in frequent danger and overusing their adrenal glands, which triggers a shortage in hormones and neurotransmitters needed to sustain attention.  ADD/ADHD can best be understood from a holistic mind-body perspective, with natural holistic and psychotherapeutic interventions to assist.  Giving stimulant drugs momentarily increases focus and calms behavior, but actually further aggravates the over-stressed system that led to ADD symptoms in the first place.  Improved nutrition, stress management skills, and energy balancing therapies can provide lasting benefits to help those labeled ADD/ADHD become more balanced and able to adapt to their circumstances when they desire to.  In more nurturing, less stressful environments these children are often seen as normal, and may actually act more calm and focused when less stressed and perceived more positively by adults.  Hartmann's book provides a useful tool to help people recognize the psychological coping mechanism that can contribute to ADD patterns of behavior, although he somewhat oversimplifies the issue and doesn't clearly address the mind-body connection that is largely ignored or misunderstood by those examining the ADD/ADHD issue.  Additionally, Hartmann adds his own labeling system of hunters and gatherers/farmers, which could limit how some people perceive themselves.  These are roles we develop, and which are not solidly set by genetics.  Genetic expression is influenced by the individual's biological and psychosocial environment [and the individual's reaction to the environment], and we deny our potential if we just say we are a born &quot;hunter.&quot;ection that is largely ignored or misunderstood by those examining the ADD/ADHD issue.  Additionally, Hartmann adds his own labeling system of hunters and gatherers/farmers, which could limit how some people perceive themselves.  These are roles we develop, and which are not solidly set by genetics.  Genetic expression is influenced by the individual's biological and psychosocial environment [and the individual's reaction to the environment], and we deny our potential if we just say we are a born &quot;hunter.&quot;	2003-12-29
US	51638416	R3B8FCU6JWIC62	1591430127	939231283	Magdalene's Lost Legacy: Symbolic Numbers and the Sacred Union in Christianity	Books	3	59	68	N	N	Gematria &amp; Gnostic Symbolism in Christianity	This book is certainly thought-provoking, as it examines esoteric coding that suggests occult symbolic meanings contained within the texts of Christianity.  There are now numerous books that claim to expose various forms of hidden information in Biblical texts and apocrypha.  In this book of Starbird's the focus is on the symbolism of masculine and feminine polarities in the Jesus &amp; Mary Magdelene characters, and their alleged marriage being a symbolic spiritual union of polarities.  One thing that neither Starbird nor most other authors of this genre make an effort to examine is the question of how many of the characters and events described in the religious texts are purely symbolic and metaphorical versus how much is actual history or &quot;staged&quot; history designed to play out esoteric symbolism.  The characters of Jesus and Mary (both Marys, actually) are not original to Christianity, and the gnostic symbolism suggested by Starbird is far more ancient than Christianity, which makes one wonder how much of the Christian stories were created for passing metaphysical knowledge to intitiates and how much had any connection to historical persons.  Starbird has done a nice job of examining one level of hidden information in the Christian texts, but this leaves many unanswered questions and does not provide any clear insight into the literal history of Christianity's alleged initiator.	2003-12-26
US	51638416	R3UKAENQDGSP1V	067974049X	340888074	The Big Bang Never Happened: A Startling Refutation of the Dominant Theory of the Origin of the Universe	Books	4	10	18	N	N	Provocative examination of cosmology debate	Lerner's book is as much about the process of scientific reasoning and factors that influence the flow of scientific debate as it is about the ideas and observations related to Big Bang Theory and Plasma Cosmology.  Lerner makes many valid points about how the Big Bang Theory is based on assumptions that can't be proven and has been continually receiving mathematical tweaks to fit observations that conflict with predictions of existing big bang models.  He explores the issues of evolution and entropy in relation to cosmological theories, and superficially explores the role of consciousness in all this, as he has a bias against metaphysical ideas that seems to be the same type of flawed approach that he criticizes in big bang theorists.  If there are observations and situations that conflict with the theory then you have to consider that the theory is flawed, even if it is useful and practical in some ways.  Actually, experiential and empirical evidence indicate that consciousness is the prime cause and is inherent in all energy, even though physical sciences can't directly examine consciousness.  Thus, both big bang theory and plasma cosmology ignore the source that projected the physical universe in the first place, even though plasma cosmology does recognize electromagnetism as the most essential measurable force in astrophysics.  This book is great for exposing flaws in big bang theory, but I would encourage those looking for the most advanced ideas in cosmology to consider authors who delve into metaphysics.  If you want to understand reality/creation you would do better to read some of Deepak Chopra's work or books like Lynn McTaggart's &quot;The Field&quot; and &quot;The Living Energy Universe&quot; by Schwartz &amp; Russek.	2003-12-23
US	51638416	R2GXSBSHOQQK12	0738205443	836654239	Talking Back to Ritalin: What Doctors Aren't Telling You About Stimulants and ADHD	Books	4	15	23	N	N	Solid Critique of ADHD Labels And Drug Treatments	Dr. Breggin has become a leading critic of the standard psychiatric approach to labeling and treating children with challenging behavioral symptoms.  This book is a thorough examination of the scientific debate as well as political, economic, and psychosocial factors involved in the issue.  Breggin makes many excellent points in this book about the interactions between body, mind, and environment that are largely ignored by most medical and mental health professionals.  Drugs are routinely used as a form of chemical restraint, even though the withdrawal phase of the drugs actually triggers the \\"imbalances\\" and likelihood of misbehaviors that they are supposed to treat.  Those who believe the medications are a wonderful way of controlling behavior believe this out of ignorance of alternative approaches to really helping the child become physically, emotionally, and mentally healthy.  It is easy to just continually drug someone into submission, but in other contexts this is usually considered an abuse of human rights.  The lack of responsibility and commitment by adults toward finding ways of helping children develop positive motivation and social skills is certainly one factor in the epidemic of psychiatric labeling and psychotropic drug prescriptions.  The incompetence of physicians to identify real physical issues that impact children's ability to concentrate, such as poor nutrition, neurological impairment, allergies, exposure to drugs and toxins, and hormonal disturbances, is another factor.  The propaganda and social programming that falsely claim mental illness is biologically determined is another factor.  Having worked in the mental health field in Florida as a licensed counselor for several years, I have observed much of what Breggin talks about.  Children who are labeled \\"ADD\\" in one school or home environment suddenly appear normal when their family environment becomes less stressful or when they are placed with a more compassionate teacher or in a less stressful educational setting, such as a Montessori school.  When children form more positive relationships they are often suddenly able to concentrate adequately and remain more calm when necessary.  Meanwhile, I have seen many children who became depressed or bipolar as an apparent effect of their medications, and have seen no lasting progress associated with drug treatments.  That adults treat highly active and inattentive children poorly and treat subdued children better is true, but that is a problem of the adults that is being displaced onto the children who are given drugs that are addictive and perpetuate the child's lack of self-motivated control.  There are multiple parenting and educational programs that have successfully reversed \\"ADD/ADHD\\" behavior patterns, even in supposedly severe cases, by merely helping adults minimize their emotional reactions to the targeted negative behaviors and increasing positive social attention given to the children.  The physical correlates of ADD/ADHD symptom patterns are typically modulated by the psychological factors present in the individual, and cannot usually be considered to be the root causal source of the symptoms.  Various alternative medicine approaches, from naturopathy, oriental medicine, energy medicine, mind-body stress management, nutritional therapy, and more have shown usefulness in reversing the ADD/ADHD symptoms, as these target various levels of the pattern, ranging from emotions, stress, and subtle energy disturbances to nutritional imbalances and metabolic disturbances, with the physical disturbances usually being triggered or facilitated in some way by non-physical (psychological & psychosocial) issues.  Mental health clinics and physicians have become increasingly controlled and programmed by the pharmaceutical industry.  They are showered with gifts, including boxloads of office supplies (featuring drug ads) and brochures with misleading information about \\"disorders\\" and pharmaceutical company adsfor patients as well as trips and meals, typically delivered by attractive young women and less often by young men pharmaceutical reps [all of whom become speechless or irritated when you try to discuss the actual safety and efficacy of the drugs with them beyond letting them repeat their script].  I have seen all this myself, and see the pharmaceutical paraphernalia all over the office of the agency I've worked at, as well as seeing psychiatrists routinely prescribe drugs with no medical exam or any other basis than the intent to briefly manipulate mood and behavior - things anyone could do using street drugs, which happen to manipulate neurotransmitter systems the same way that prescribed drugs do.  I commend Dr. Breggin for his efforts to wake people from the massive deceptions and denials governing mental health care and the topic of ADD/ADHD.for patients as well as trips and meals, typically delivered by attractive young women and less often by young men pharmaceutical reps [all of whom become speechless or irritated when you try to discuss the actual safety and efficacy of the drugs with them beyond letting them repeat their script].  I have seen all this myself, and see the pharmaceutical paraphernalia all over the office of the agency I've worked at, as well as seeing psychiatrists routinely prescribe drugs with no medical exam or any other basis than the intent to briefly manipulate mood and behavior - things anyone could do using street drugs, which happen to manipulate neurotransmitter systems the same way that prescribed drugs do.  I commend Dr. Breggin for his efforts to wake people from the massive deceptions and denials governing mental health care and the topic of ADD/ADHD.	2003-12-10
US	51638416	RIDCP3H80TL2N	0738204269	526723242	Reclaiming Our Children: A Healing Plan For A Nation In Crisis	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A compassionate critique of the mental health industry	Dr. Breggin has written extensively about the dangers of pharmaceutical treatment.  In this book, he expands his discussion to look at the social context for how the society has been driven toward dangerous quick fixes rather than healing the society in ways that nurture children.  One reviewer calls Breggin a Christian Scientist due to his anti-drug stance, when in reality he seems to have connections to the Jewish faith.  Pure Christian Science opposes any medical drug treatments (which Breggin doesn't), including for seemingly purely physical symptoms and illnesses, since it sees physical reality as completely a product of mind and spirit.  Breggin makes many valuable observations, although I perceive his parenting ideas as overly libertarian in some instances.  Breggin also is unrealistic about the ability of ordinary psychotherapeutic and parenting methods to address very challenging child symptoms and difficulties.  Theoretically, all mental health issues can be resolved without using medications to suppress symptoms.  However, in our society few people have the knowledge or skills to facilitate holistic healing methods and access subconscious levels of mind that often trigger biochemical and psychological dysfunctions.  Every cell, tissue, organ, and system in our bodies is guided by some level of consciousness, and even seeming \\"biochemical\\" issues can be resolved by accessing the consciousness that controls biological functioning and reorienting it to direct the body to function in a balanced manner.  Since almost no one in the health care professions is trained to facilitate this, and only a minority of professionals are even trained to use nutrition, massage, hypnosis, and some other less invasive alternatives, then many people mistakenly assume that certain people absolutely have to be medicated.  Breggin focuses mostly on the social ills of our society and the social and political context of mental health approaches to children, doing a solid job in this regard.  However, a more expansive understanding of health, healing, and reality is needed to help more people realize the wealth of alternatives to drugs.s regard.  However, a more expansive understanding of health, healing, and reality is needed to help more people realize the wealth of alternatives to drugs.	2003-12-04
US	51638416	R28O0CZ4O3FCHH	0953881040	12874895	Tales from the Time Loop: The Most Comprehensive Expose of the Global Conspiracy Ever Written and All You Need to Know to Be Truly Free	Books	5	19	21	N	Y	Terrific Examination Of The Nature Of Reality &amp; Illusion	David Icke has become famous (or infamous, depending upon one's perception) for speaking and writing passionately about the manipulative, oppressive nature of civilization and the global control structure that implements this system of control.  Icke's underlying philosophy and motivation is spiritual - he hopes to assist others in their awakening from the delusions of our reality matrix, and sees those fighting against the perceived system as caught up in the illusion of good vs. evil.  In Tales From The Time Loop, Icke reports that he got the message in an altered state that All That Exists Is Infinite Love, everything else is illusion.  Icke shares insights he received while in a state of expanded awareness associated with use of a hallucinogenic Amazon herb - a state of awareness that he admits would ideally be reached without any external aid.  Icke provides an expansive definition of what &quot;love&quot; means, while he provides a thoughtful exploration of the physics and metaphysics of how the illusory &quot;matrix&quot; is created and how it functions.  The explanations of spiritual reality and scientific evidence of the &quot;new physics&quot; that support Icke's paradigm are solid, and a welcome improvement over Icke's previous books.  The discussion of the history of manipulation and the reptilian consciousness operating within the matrix is somewhat redundant for readers of Icke's previous books, but even these sections have some enhanced insights, making this book a must read for Icke's admirers and those seeking to expand their understanding of existence and of the world we perceive as humans.	2003-12-02
US	51638416	R2U1SYP4XCIUIK	1885273126	443426678	The Cancer Conspiracy: Betrayal, Collusion and the Suppression of Alternative Cancer Treatments	Books	5	25	27	N	Y	Clear, concise overview of medical suppression, racketeering	Lynes does a solid job of looking at the history of allopathic medical racketeering in the USA, focusing on cancer treatments that have been suppressed because they are safe, natural, cheap, and effective.  The history of Royal Rife is impressive and well documented, and his proven electromagnetic treatments remain suppressed, with practitioners persecuted by the established allopathic medical cartel and their allies.  Lynes documents his research well, and offers enlightenment to those seeking to understand the history of the bogus war on cancer and medical racketeering.  The only major aspect of the topic not discussed is evidence that certain elements of global oligarchic powers see allopatic medical control and practices as a means of population control or population reduction.	2003-11-24
US	51638416	R2AVA8GG8982DL	0892813288	55485629	Applied Kinesiology: Muscle Response in Diagnosis, Therapy, and Preventive Medicine (Thorson's Inside Health Series)	Books	4	65	66	N	N	good overview of what to expect from applied kinesiology	This book is designed to give readers an introduction to muscle testing used in health assessment and treatment.  It is written for the patient rather than as a guide for practitioners, and thus focuses mainly on what treatments are like, what they can accomplish, and what can be expected from these approaches.  This book is useful for its intended purpose, but doesn't provide a clear understanding of the science behind kinesiology or ways of developing skills as a practitioner to make therapeutic use of this.	2003-11-20
US	51638416	R3BCIXXTI7PWTZ	0892819596	746630115	Secret Societies of America's Elite: From the Knights Templar to Skull and Bones	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Interesting Look At Secret Societies &amp; Elite Intrigues	In this book, which examines the historical period ranging from the medieval beginnings of the Templars to the present occupant of America's White House, the author looks at how elite families, secret societies, and corrupt business activities (piracy, drug trade, slavery, smuggling, etc.) have intertwined in guiding political affairs.  His research is broad but careless in places, and there are relatively few footnotes and citations for the many pieces of information that Sora presents.  This book covers details of history that have been skipped by most other authors who examine similar topics, while Sora does an excellent job at presenting general themes of how secret societies have functioned and the importance of illicit business and financial activities in building the power of the elite families in our civilization.  This book is a valuable read for history buffs seeking out suppressed themes and facts, but may be tedious in places for people who are bored by details.  The author has tackled a large topic in a medium sized text, which leaves certain flaws evident in this book.	2003-11-08
US	51638416	R368FL0S8UR9KB	0446527238	316393338	End Your Addiction Now: The Proven Nutritional Supplement Program That Can Set You Free	Books	5	22	26	N	N	Solid Examination of Nutrition, Brain Chemistry, &amp; Addiction	This book clearly documents how nutritional imbalances contribute to addictive substance use, and how nutritional treatment can help safely and effectively resolve problems with addictions.  The author also points out how prescribed psychoactive medications are also addictive substances that aggravate underlying nutritional deficiencies.  This book is a great contribution to the field of orthomolecular medicine and natural substance abuse treatment.  Unfortunately, health care insurance, which insures income for doctors and pharmaceutical business interests rather than your health, does not cover nutritional healing interventions.  Those seeking true health must make a personal commitment of resources and willingness to make lifestyle changes rather than expecting a pill or a professional to magically take their problems away.	2003-10-26
US	51638416	RJFRCZG0TJFXU	0717132749	196242355	Fluoride: Drinking Ourselves to Death	Books	5	48	52	N	N	Solid Overview Of Research On Fluoride &amp; It's Hazards	This book reviews the science and salesmanship involved in the fluoride debate, as there is no clear valid evidence of significant benefits from added fluoride consumption, while there are many independent studies showing a variety of potential negative mental &amp; physical effects.  This evidence has been available previously in some other texts and online information collections, and is beyond rational refutation.  There are, of course, some really insecure people who just can't accept or admit that the government, medical, &amp; dental authorities are spreading lies and contaminating the public water supplies.  One reviewer claims that people who denounce fluoridation are opportunists seeking economic profit and getting paid thousands of dollars per event for speaking against fluoridation.  To deny one conspiracy, this reviewer has invented his own conspiracy, based on no evidence.  If speaking publicly against fluoride were financially lucrative, where are all the wealthy fluoride opponents and anti-fluoride ads?  Of course, all the damning evidence about fluoride is in professional journals and government documents for anyone to see.  Then again, maybe consuming so much fluoride made that person dumb enough to think fluoride is good and anyone against fluoride isn't - after all, fluoridation has been correlated with diminished IQs.	2003-10-05
US	51638416	R2T5TT6GF6CU13	1568382081	848605337	The Paradigm Conspiracy: Why Our Social Systems Violate Human Potential -- And How We Can Change Them	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Inspirational Guide To Transcending Unhealthy Patterns	This book is a brilliant, inspirational guide to recognizing the inherent addictive and destructive nature of many dominant paradigms in our civilization.  The authors weave their discourse around the spiritual insights of Rumi and Native American steps to &quot;peace.&quot;  The authors delineate how paradigms function and protect themselves from the threat of alternative approaches.  They also expose the addictive nature of paradigms that dominate modern culture, while offering guidance for those wishing to consciously evolve and transcend the self-limiting, divisive patterns that dominate society.  This book is a powerful, enlightened examination of what keeps humanity oppressed, allowing us to reflect on ourselves and the world around us.  For those who recognize the flaws in existing patterns and paradigms, this book will resonate and provide insight into how we can individually and collectively develop a progressive, expansive framework for human civilization.  I highly recommend this book!	2003-09-15
US	51638416	R1FBODT8RKPCY3	1561709336	674444563	Power vs. Force	Books	4	39	45	N	N	Thought Provoking Ideas On Consciousness &amp; Kinesiology	This is a very thought-provoking book, as it explores the use of applied kinesiological methods to measure levels of truth and consciousness.  The author has seemingly discovered a continuum in which consciousness becomes either increasingly expansive and inclusive or increasingly destructive to life at descending levels.  He describes a methodical approach to using kinesiology to test for the level of consciousness of a person, book, concept, or group, as well as to test for the truth or falsehood of precise statements.  He also describes factors that can invalidate a muscle test, which make it apparent that it is easy to yield invalid and unreliable results.  In fact, the author indicates that persons with a consciousness below a certain threshold can't get reliable results.  Hawkins' research has shown most of humanity to function below the threshold necessary for &quot;power&quot; rather than &quot;force&quot; to be expressed.  This is just one significant problem in applying the author's model.  Another is the reality that most people fluctuate in their consciousness from one moment to another.  Hawkins' use of kinesiology to examine political figures and historical persons and issues has also yielded some suspect results.  I think it would have been more useful if he had used the method to rate individuals that neither the tester or subject (or the general public) had ever heard of, such as a common killer or an unheralded charity volunteer.  Despite the flaws in methodology and some overly simplistic conclusions drawn by the author, this is a very readable and insightful book.  It provides a wonderful perspective about the nature of consciousness and holism, encouraging readers to explore the topic further and to practice the muscle testing methods in one's own life.  Hawkins has done some important research, though it is important that those reading about and applying his methods recognize some of the potential pitfalls in the methods and conclusions.  Hawkins displays much enthusiasm for his ideas and methods, which leads him to overlook or minimize some areas that may need to be refined or clarified.ns displays much enthusiasm for his ideas and methods, which leads him to overlook or minimize some areas that may need to be refined or clarified.	2003-09-15
US	51638416	RF8Y0YQ0Z11BE	0970452519	97936488	Bluebird : Deliberate Creation of Multiple Personality by Psychiatrists	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Documentation of Govt.-Sponsored Psychiatric Mind Control	Colin Ross, M.D., a well-established psychiatrist and researcher in the field of dissociative disorders, has put together a collection of evidence showing how psychiatry has been hijacked by government military and mind control agendas.  This book is primarily just a review of government programs and documents, providing irrefutable evidence of how psychiatric professionals worked with government sponsored programs to fragment people's minds, using a variety of techniques, such as drugs, torture, electronics and electroshock, hypnosis, food &amp; sleep deprivation, and sensory deprivation.  This information is not pleasant or entertaining to read unless one happens to be a sadist.  However, it is useful for clinicians and patients to have an understanding of how dissociation has been deliberately created, providing insights into how the resulting conditions may be effectively healed.  This book would also be of interest to historical researchers, especially those who seek to examine covert agendas and conspiratorial activity.  Ross specifically states that this book is not about any conspiracy theory or critique of government agencies and their motives, while he does express his intent to expose psychiatric professionals involved in mind control for their breach of professional oaths and ethics.  This aspect of the text is somewhat disappointing, as Ross defends the CIA and other government operations for their exploration of mind control to serve national &quot;security&quot; and &quot;defense&quot; interests.  If psychiatrists are acting in a contemptible manner by abusing their clients and manipulating patients' minds against their will, then why should CIA or military personnel be excused for pursuing those agendas just because they don't have a professional guideline opposed to such activities?  Only through coercion and deceit can the government carry out the mind control research and applications, which would mean that in order to supposedly &quot;fight to protect American freedom and values&quot; the government itself must flout those freedoms and values.  I am under the impression that Colin Ross has become less forgiving of government motives and agendas subsequent to the publication of this book, but I encourage readers to consider this issue carefully when reading the comments in Bluebird about the motives and culpabilities related to mind control abuses.  Otherwise, this was an excellent book, providing the information that the author set out to publicize in order to help expose psychiatric abuses and aid those seeking to heal MPD &amp; DID.otect American freedom and values&quot; the government itself must flout those freedoms and values.  I am under the impression that Colin Ross has become less forgiving of government motives and agendas subsequent to the publication of this book, but I encourage readers to consider this issue carefully when reading the comments in Bluebird about the motives and culpabilities related to mind control abuses.  Otherwise, this was an excellent book, providing the information that the author set out to publicize in order to help expose psychiatric abuses and aid those seeking to heal MPD &amp; DID.	2003-09-14
US	51638416	R1DPAOKPDPL3YQ	0060931175	577973624	Field, The	Books	5	43	48	N	N	Lucid Exploration Of The Quantum-Holistic View Of Reality	In The Field, the author takes the reader along on a quest to understand the metaphysics that underlie our perceived universe.  This book mainly reviews the data and theories of scientists exploring new paradigms in physics, consciousness, and subtle energy fields.  While the evidence in these areas is open to theoretical interpretation, the findings consistently disprove dominant materialistic and mechanistic notions about life and the universe.  The Field makes it evident that a deep analysis of scientific paradigms will lead those seeking a greater truth into the realm of metaphysics and consciousness, which have traditionally been the terrain of mystics, philosophers and spiritual seekers.  This book provides an excellent overview of the most important developments in the sciences that examine the most vital issues of existence.  This book is also great for challenging materialists and even some religious fanatics, as it documents contradictions to widely held beliefs.	2003-09-12
US	51638416	R24O84BVEIYEYW	0963188941	659720864	The Black Sun: Montauk's Nazi-Tibetan Connection (Montauk Series, Bk. 4)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Fascinating Exploration of Occult & Nazis	Peter Moon has researched the Montauk Project at length and spoken with several people involved in the projects.  In this book of the SkyBooks Montauk series, the author explores the Nazi connection to Montauk, the occult, and UFO technologies.  There are a bizarre series of connections and synchronicities in the story, with as many questions raised as answers provided.  Peter Moon is a talented storyteller of the strange and conspiratorial, and he has produced an intriguing book here.  The title \\"Black Sun\\" refers to an occult sect and the beliefs related to it, including the idea of inner Earth civilizations.  This book will be enjoyable for all those exploring the Montauk saga with an open mind.	2003-09-11
US	51638416	R15Z52H0YK627P	1571742034	96926489	Voyage to Curiosity's Father (Exploring the Afterlife Series)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Inspiring, Insightful Guide To The Great Beyond	In this book, Bruce Moen explores further in the non-physical realms, covering territory pioneered by Robert Monroe, who mentored Bruce's quest into spiritual realms.  This book uses much of the lingo created by Monroe and incorporated into Moen's previous books, so it is helpful if you have read other books by these authors.  In this book, the author describes fascinating experiences and goes further into the nature of how consciousness is projected into physical reality.  It explores how our beliefs produce our realities in out-of-body realms, and how our lives and experiences may be integrated into a higher level of self, all the way up to the Source, which Moen describes as &quot;Curiosity's Father.&quot;  This is a wonderful book to read if you are interested in exploring the nature of life and spiritual development.	2003-09-06
US	51638416	R2O5Q04OO8QZ9P	155643393X	971576125	Quantum Touch: The Power to Heal (Second Edition)	Books	5	53	56	N	N	Excellent Guide To Energy Healing For Novices & Pros	This book is a very clear guide to developing skills for using one's energy field to heal self & others.  It provides techniques for developing awareness of and sensitivity toward subtle energy fields, including breathing, stroking, and visualization exercises.  It explains the quantum physics ideas that can explain how energy healing and spiritual healing work, with a focus on maintaining a loving, caring attitude when practicing.  The author has presented a system that is similar to therapeutic touch, pranic healing, reiki, and other healing approaches, while making the system simple and powerful, helping the healer remain centered and empowering everyone to be responsible for their own healing.  There are just a few things that could be added to help healers handle very challenging situations and integrate this practice with other natural healing methods.  Overall, this is a very insightful book, which makes it is easy for readers to learn and practice quantum touch, an ability that comes naturally to all of us spiritual beings having human experiences.	2003-09-01
US	51638416	R34XL3DS7K8FVK	1879052261	743989124	Teaching Children to Love: 80 Games & Fun Activities for Raising Balanced Children in Unbalanced Times	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Useful Activities For Developing Emotional & Social Skills	I got this book, being familiar with the HeartMath Institute and their research on mind-body topics and heart-based biofeedback applications.  I have used the Freeze-Framer computer program and even developed my own way of building \\"coherent\\" pulse patterns, supplementing Childre's music and appreciative heart center emotional focus with \\"toning\\" - like what Robert Monroe would refer to as resonant tuning.  This book by Childre provides a variety of activities for different youth age ranges, focusing on using emotional skills that enhance coping abilities, empathy, and appreciation.  As a counselor, I have used a few similar activities with elementary school-aged children.  Unlike most other social/emotional skill activity guides for children, this book focuses on connecting the emotions with the body (heart).  Knowing that mind and body are aspects of a holistic whole, this is a superior approach to more limited conventional approaches.  Some of the activities in this book I think need some tweaking to be more engaging or inviting for resistant and impatient children, while others are pretty simple and likely to quickly get children engaged and practicing positive emotional skills.  I would recommend that readers learn about the HeartMath programs and research, and even try the \\"Freeze-Framer\\" pulse monitor on themselves, as most people typically have pretty incoherent pulse patterns, which are typical of our emotionally unhealthy civilization and lifestyles, leading to the massive pandemic of heart diseases in our society.  Our civilization presents social patterns that fuel poor coping skills and heart disease - we don't teach kids meditation, breathing, or positive attitudinal skills, instead focusing on punishment and guilt-inducement when children don't please adults.  Caretakers put more energy into punitive discipline and verbal chastisement than into modeling appreciation.  Then, the model for handling unpleasant emotions in our culture is dominated by drugs - including stimulants and depressants, both illegal/recreational and prescription.  By the time most people are middle aged their hearts begin to weaken from this burden of emotional trauma, suppression, and substance abuse, not to mention the junk food diets that are also used to momentarily sooth unpleasant feelings.  Doc Childre should be commended for his efforts to help people build positive emotional skills and coping behaviors, starting in childhood.s - including stimulants and depressants, both illegal/recreational and prescription.  By the time most people are middle aged their hearts begin to weaken from this burden of emotional trauma, suppression, and substance abuse, not to mention the junk food diets that are also used to momentarily sooth unpleasant feelings.  Doc Childre should be commended for his efforts to help people build positive emotional skills and coping behaviors, starting in childhood.	2003-08-30
US	51638416	R3EG2HRDG2Q4ZN	0874778506	600013090	The High-Performance Mind: Mastering Brainwaves for Insight, Healing, and Creativity	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Valuable Exploration of Consciousness &amp; Brainwave Patterns	Anna Wise has produced a groundbreaking book on the topic of brainwaves and consciousness.  This book examines the relationship between brainwave patterns (frequencies and amplitudes) and states of consciousness and activity.  The author discusses neurofeedback techniques and various meditative exercises that can be used to develop desired brainwave patterns.  Wise focuses on developing patterns she calls the &quot;high performance mind,&quot; which include a mix of the 4 major brain wave frequency ranges.  Developing the combined brainwave patterns also helps improve brain hemisphere synchronization.  Wise briefly covers topics that relate more directly to metaphysics, such as kundalini, and she seems to be unclear about the full nature of the relationship between brain electrical activity and consciousness, as the brain is merely a tool for consciousness to use in interacting with physical sensory reality.  Wise acknowledges that during OBEs brainwave patterns can be weak and non-informative, which shows how consciousness can be very active and dynamic without being filtered through a brain.  Thus, there can never be a perfect correlation between brainwaves and consciousness, even though brainwaves usually reflect focii of consciousness and can be entrained for development of consciousness and self-regulation.  If that is your interest, then this is an excellent book to gain ideas and insight from.	2003-08-30
US	51638416	R2FSHT6UQT61UO	0972020705	876427741	America's Secret Establishment: An Introduction to the Order of Skull & Bones	Books	4	84	89	N	N	An Uncensored Examination of The Skull &amp; Bones Order	Antony Sutton, rogue historian, has done a nice job examining the history, motives, and methods of the Skull &amp; Bones Order.  The Hegelian dialectic is seen as a chief method of their manipulation of society, and the presence of Skull members G.W. Bush &amp; John Kerry on opposite sides of the 2004 election campaign would seem to support this contention.  Sutton was apparently supplied with documentation of Order membership and some other aspects of Skull &amp; Bones history.  Some of his ideas are speculative, though it is clear that Sutton looks for the most logical explanation, no matter how unpleasant or politically incorrect that conclusion may be.  Sutton died in the year this latest (2002) edition was published, and he has left a legacy of books that document the presence of establishment elite conspiratorial activity.  This is an excellent book for those seeking a meaningful understanding of history and current events.	2003-08-19
US	51638416	R1BIZ8R3FYCPFY	0962052728	935203347	Flood Your Body with Oxygen	Books	5	120	129	N	N	Definitive Guide To Oxygen & Health	Ed McCabe has done a wonderful job of researching oxygen therapies and their role in a holistic model of building and restoring health.  This book has loads of information and contains the author's passion for finding the truth and offering available data to help anyone interested in health.  I have seen the author speak in person and was impressed by his energy and awareness.  I have also used a high-concentration ozone generator and found it to be safe and beneficial, as this book indicates, despite the misleading claims disseminated by the government and other ignorant or corrupt \\"authorities.\\"  Read this book and share it with others, especially those with health problems.	2003-08-19
US	51638416	R1BE4GBLR6VXYM	0941524841	232821611	Empowerment Through Reiki: The Path to Personal and Global Transformation (Shangri-La Series)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Good Guide To Reiki &amp; Healing Philosophy	This book is only about 150 pages, yet it manages to introduce the reader to many valuable areas of information and philosophy about Reiki healing.  Usui's 5 principles are examined, as is the attunement process and the science of subtle energies.  Complements to Reiki, such as color, sound, crystals, conscious breathing, acupressure, massage, and naturopathy are discussed.  The author gives a balanced, realistic idea about what Reiki is and what it can do.  There are useful body charts and diagrams, and recommendations for how to practice Reiki according to legalities of your area.  My only cautions about this book are that it repeats the mythologized history of Usui's uncovering of Reiki, and that it implies there are no significant hazards of Reiki healing work, and does not guide the practitioner in remaining centered and consciously connected to the Reiki Source as a means of psychic protection.  It is presumed that this just happens automatically, which is usually but not always the case.  Other than that, I found this book to be a very enlightened approach to educating readers about Reiki.  For a compact, affordable guide to Reiki this book is a great investment.	2003-08-12
US	51638416	R18O8YVMFMZMJU	1892062313	61516572	Nikola Tesla Journey To Mars: Are We Already There?	Books	4	7	9	N	Y	Interesting Ideas For Tesla & Alternative Science Fans	This book covers the topics of Tesla's inventions, free energy, suppressed science, The Philadelphia Experiment/Montauk stories, \\"Alternative 3,\\" Nazi UFO theories, & other avant-garde topics.  Pretty interesting stuff!  It's hard to draw many conclusions based on the material in this book, although it's evident that things are going on that are very well hidden from the public.  The facts seem to suggest that the official space program of NASA is partially a screen to divert people from recognizing that far more advanced technologies and explorations have been used by shadowy elite groups within governemnts.  This is an intriguing book, although I would have liked to have seen more depth in the information presented, as this book is pretty thin considering the scope of the topics it examines.	2003-08-11
US	51638416	RLZ95LXUFSDN	0966410076	739549691	You Are Being Lied To: The Disinformation Guide to Media Distortion, Historical Whitewashes and Cultural Myths	Books	4	3	5	N	Y	A decent overview of suppressed ideas & conspiracy theories	This book is a collection of articles on a variety of topics, giving the reader a glimpse of dissident views and evidence that contradict official and established notions on a variety of topics.  The quality of the articles varies, as some researchers and journalists examine their issue more thoroughly than others.  Once you recognize you are being lied to, you next must wonder how accurate any \\"alternative\\" theory is.  Research these topics in more detail, as the articles in this text only give a partial or distorted picture of the realities they propose to examine.  Disinfo has done a great service of providing a forum for suppressed information and views, and this book provides a good variety of articles to introduce readers to some thought-provoking ideas.	2003-08-11
US	51638416	R580XOPUR93SB	0963215809	743678423	The Franklin Cover-up: Child Abuse, Satanism, and Murder in Nebraska	Books	4	235	254	N	N	Credible, Documented Account Of Elite Crimes & Pedophilia	This book, authored by a former Republican Nebraska State Senator, exposes the elite web of crime, satanic cults, and child sexual abuse that reaches through the highest levels of power in our society.  The organized cover-up and suppression of the events and victims' accounts is well documented, as is the author's role as attorney in the investigations and court cases.  It's interesting that former CIA director Bill Colby ambiguously acknowledged to the author that the scenario described is real, and not long thereafter Colby turned up dead under suspicious circumstances.  This is a good book to recommend for those in denial about the depravity and deviousness of those with power and influence in our society.  The only significant weakness about the book is that it does not go into much discussion of the larger context of elite cults and organized conspiratorial activity, instead just focusing on a small portion of this activity.	2003-08-05
US	51638416	RXR5S4XYUBSWW	0425176584	667817080	The Stargate Conspiracy: The Truth about Extraterrestrial life and the Mysteries of Ancient Egypt	Books	4	25	34	N	N	Provocative examination of occult &amp; New Age belief systems	This book is quite thought-provoking, even though it seems the authors are not quite sure what conclusions can be drawn from the web of connections they have uncovered.  It would seem that there are a number of converging, overlapping agendas that involve promoting or facilitating theories about ancient gods, aliens, and a &quot;New Age&quot; era in which these alien or extradimensional entities reappear.  Unfortunately, the authors have not been able to pin down the motives of the various writers, occultists, researchers, and government agents involved in this web.  This is a fascinating story that helps readers recognize that things are generally not what they appear to be on the surface.  This helps explore the dangers of belief-system manipulation and credulity.  I personally suspect that some of the people discussed in the book are not intentionally participating in any &quot;conspiracy,&quot; even though their research and theories may be promoted or facilitated by others with a manipulative agenda.  Similarly, there are lots of channelers around who are too easily impressed by the phenomenon and by any entity that wishes to lead them on some deceptive path.  Thus, the Stargate Conspiracy is at its core a story of gullibility and manipulation that can catch many in a web of intrigue.	2003-08-05
US	51638416	R1DI91WBNP61ME	0789477807	442575921	Secrets of Reiki	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Nice Little Reiki Overview	This is a very small book that packs in a lot of information and ideas about Reiki, while including a good amount of color photos.  This book is not comprehensive, but is intended to be a good overview of what Reiki is and how you can learn this practice.  This is a valuable text for those new to Reiki and looking for an inexpensive book about Reiki that is easy to carry with you.	2003-08-04
US	51638416	R1A8SNJ05N3RPQ	0966554531	90519681	No More ADHD	Books	5	35	44	N	N	Solid overview of the ADHD label & practical holistic help	Dr. Block has put together an insightful analysis of the roots of the epidemic of ADD/ADHD labeling, while offering proven effective interventions for people seeking to address the causes that produce the symptoms associated with those labels.  There are many physical, emotional, and environmental factors that contribute to inattentiveness and hyperactivity.  Common discipline methods and drug treatments often aggravate these underlying imbalances and stressors, even if they temporarily create conforming/compliant behavior.  While this book has improved on the scope of the author's previous book \\"No More Ritalin,\\" I'd like to see a further expansion toward examining emotional and subtle energy factors that relate to ADD/ADHD symptoms, as these interact with biochemical/environmental factors addressed in the present book.  Unfortunately, there are many parents and caretakers who are unwilling to make changes in their current habits of feeding, nurturing, and disciplining children.  The more healthy options that can be presented, the better, since this increases the chances that parents and educators will try some beneficial approach.  Dr. Block has done a solid job of exposing the fallacies and negligence of the established medical paradigm surrounding the ADD/ADHD issue.	2003-04-19
US	51638416	R1QEKI19XPDQLD	096207490X	947687819	The Greatest Story Never Told: A Scientific Inquiry into the Evidence of the Fall of Man from a Higher Civilization in Antiquity	Books	5	35	43	N	Y	Interesting analysis of ancient civilizations	This is a voluminous book, one which displays the author's impressive knowledge and research efforts.  She has used her unique skills in holistic medicine, biology, and physiology to assist in her forensic analysis of ancient civilizations, their possible origins, and the reason for the collapse of advanced civilizations in ages past.  This book was a landmark effort at the time of its original publication.  While some of the author's conclusions seem inadequate, there are also many excellent insights and revelations about the civilizations of antiquity and earlier, as well as the nature of the &quot;gods&quot; of ancient cultures, who were very much humanoid in nature and prone to engage in competitive and conflictual behaviors, as well as efforts to gain loyalty and subservience from Earth's residents.<br />This work could benefit from some revision and proofreading, while it stands out as a very passionate dissertation and source of progressive research and ideas about ancient history and anthropology.	2003-04-11
US	51638416	R3OY0YMJO4M84W	0875423205	231620520	Wheels of Life: A User's Guide to the Chakra System (Llewellyn's New Age Series)	Books	4	47	54	N	N	Large Collection Of Information, Theories &amp; Exercises	This book has a lot of ideas about chakras and some practical exercises, although in containing ideas collected from a variety of sources it includes some misleading statements and false assumptions, which the reader will have to discern through their own experience and research.  This is a nice book for a reference collection or for those seeking a thorough overview of chakras and the metaphysical traditions associated with them.  The author is enthusiastic about the subject matter, and tends to be open to a wide range of ideas about chakras, though she does not claim to have an authoritative understanding of chakras and metaphysics.  There are many books available about chakras, and this is a fairly good one, since it exposes the reader to a wealth of information and ideas rather than a single narrow viewpoint or dogmatic teaching.	2003-04-07
US	51638416	R1WTLV7TELM271	0525938419	515870977	The Myth of the A.D.D. Child: 50 Ways to Improve Your Child's Behavior and Attention Span...Coercion	Books	4	25	28	N	Y	Overview of holistic, non-invasive approaches to ADD/ADHD	This book provides brief overviews and introductions to a variety of approaches to handling ADD/ADHD symptoms and their sources.  This ranges from healthy parenting and educational strategies to healthy diet and alternative medicine approaches.  The book avoids overtly criticizing the pharmaceutical paradigm or some common disciplinary approaches, and does not go into much depth about many of the interventions it examines.  However, this is a good introductory book for those who are looking for ways to deal with their child's difficulties and don't want to drug their kids into temporary submission or use unhealthy threats, intimidation, or corporal punishments to control behaviors.  I have a self-published text that addresses this topic to some extent, going into more depth in some areas and more thoroughly examining the hazards and illogic of common approaches to ADD/ADHD.	2003-04-07
US	51638416	R2MBOFC8G4D0EG	0595202039	245742735	Atlantis Rising: The Struggle of Darkness and Light	Books	4	8	12	N	Y	Interesting channeled perspective on Earth history	This material is channeled and claims to be from a council of beings in the Sirius star system.  It discusses themes of polarity struggle and manipulation of civilization that seem pretty valid, although it seems to over-simplify some concepts and issues.  This book is part of a series, and explains how things have come to be where they are now in our civilization, presenting optimism for positive transformation, to be addressed in the subsequent volume of channeled messages.  I consider this material to be alien \\"propaganda\\" to some extent, presenting useful information and insights accompanied by \\"spin\\" to ingratiate the messengers as humanity's ally and a source of help in the time of chaos and transition.  It is a very readable compilation and presents some good insights, but as with even the best channeled material, it has limitations and flaws.	2003-04-07
US	51638416	R1MMQTGGEXS2ZP	0953881024	423650867	Alice in Wonderland and the World Trade Center Disaster	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Nice Overview Of The Deceptions of 9-11	David Icke has focused his research expertise on the mass of lies and deceptions associated with the events of September 11, 2001.  He adroitly explains why the whole official story is a mountain of lies and disinformation, while he falters a bit in outlining the devious motives connected to these events, as there are multiple layers of motives and orchestration that were involved in bringing that day of infamy to fruition.  Icke nicely ties this text into his other research collections, although this book is clear and works fine as a stand-alone text for those unfamiliar with Icke's other books.  To see the larger context and gain a better grasp of what's really going on in this reality matrix, Icke's prior works are among the texts I would recommend for those researching 9-11 and related uncensored historical scholarship.	2003-02-21
US	51638416	R10PK6VCBYLTNB	1931412944	894030846	Realm of the Ring Lords	Books	4	18	25	N	Y	Fascinating exploration of myths and their hidden meanings	Gardner continues with his adventurous scholarship and speculative conclusions about occult history.  There are many excellent insights about the mystical and aristocratic traditions represented in popular mythologies, such as the &quot;ring&quot; stories and the grail legends.  However, Gardner is an insider of sorts, and promotes the ideas of his own lineage, at times evading or glossing over some issues, such as the origin of the Annunaki &amp; Shining Ones.  This book is an excellent read and thought provoking, but some of the author's conclusions are questionable.	2002-12-09
US	51638416	RXDN88SLHPBAG	0443062617	607159058	Energy Medicine: The Scientific Basis	Books	5	47	50	N	N	Scholarly exploration of the science of vibrational healing	This text is packed with information and scientific research related to energy medicine, which overlaps with the subjects of vibrational &amp; spiritual healing.  As a Reiki healer, I experience electromagnetic sensations routinely, and have no doubt that the flow of energy directed by mind and spirit alters the electromagnetic fields that surround and permeate the body.  It's nice to see that there are researchers documenting effects with modern equipment and developing theories that explore holistic, open-systems of life processes.  The only things I would like to see to make this book better would be additional research examples, including the work of people like Reich &amp; Rife.  Richard Gerber has written a couple excellent books on these subjects, and his books are more affordably priced, so I'd recommend those texts for those working from a limited budget.  Nevertheless, this book is a solid text and reference for those validating energy medicine or seeking to gain a deeper understanding of how these methods work.	2002-12-09
US	51638416	R2QCPJSQJ22F22	0743456947	913401072	The New Revelations: A Conversation with God	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Neale's Timeless, Inspired Revelations...	Walsch brings the messages of his earlier books, especially Communion With God, into a focus on spiritual activism to address the World's present crises.  Neale adds a sense of urgency to his own activism, as it is becoming apparent that the distorted belief systems and illusions held by humanity are fostering the implosion of our civilization.  Walsch's dialogue with &quot;God&quot; advocates a wholesale transformation of our society's institutions, with the need for humanity to transcend current belief systems to create a balanced reality that doesn't promote conflict and destruction.  There are many important insights in this book.  While this book is a commendable wake-up call to humanity, I encourage readers to research the history of how belief systems have been promulgated on this planet to gain deeper insight into humanity's present predicament.  For those issues (which this book addresses in a superficial, somewhat distorted way), I recommend the Handbook For The New Paradigm trilogy and David Icke's books, as well as materials available via the Internet from Leading Edge Research Group.	2002-11-11
US	51638416	R1TUOXCUBPHS8X	1893157040	212949780	Handbook for the New Paradigm	Books	5	30	34	N	N	Excellent overview of spiritual principles &amp; transformation	The &quot;Handbook For The New Paradigm&quot; trilogy, including the books Embracing the Rainbow (pt.2) and Becoming (pt.3) are an excellent overview of the current state of planetary affairs and the process of chaos and transformation that is materializing.  These books impart a set of basic spiritual principles that explain how our reality manifests and how we can work within this framework to transcend the current paradigms and agendas playing out on Earth.  This series is a true gem, with much wisdom and loving insights offered to those spiraling out of the current polarity games on Earth.	2002-09-28
US	51638416	R12LU9WX2J4570	1893157059	735567432	Embracing the Rainbow	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Great Wisdom &amp; Insights!	The &quot;Handbook For The New Paradigm&quot; trilogy, including the books Embracing the Rainbow (pt.2) and Becoming (pt.3) are an excellent overview of the current state of planetary affairs and the process of chaos and transformation that is materializing. These books impart a set of basic spiritual principles that explain how our reality manifests and how we can work within this framework to transcend the current paradigms and agendas playing out on Earth. This series is a true gem, with much wisdom and loving insights offered to those spiraling out of the current polarity games on Earth.	2002-09-28
US	51638416	R2WMM2UKKMDRJV	1893157075	176774156	Becoming (Handbook for the New Paradigm, Vol. 3)	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Thought Provoking &amp; Inspiring Insights!	Becoming concludes the trilogy of books containing messages from an anonymous enlightened source, published by George Green (USAF, Retired).  The &quot;Handbook For The New Paradigm&quot; trilogy, including the books Embracing the Rainbow (pt.2) and Becoming (pt.3) are an excellent overview of the current state of planetary affairs and the process of chaos and transformation that is materializing. These books impart a set of basic spiritual principles that explain how our reality manifests and how we can work within this framework to transcend the current paradigms and agendas playing out on Earth. This series is a true gem, with much wisdom and loving insights offered to those spiraling out of the current polarity games on Earth.  I will add that these materials include both spiritual wisdom and an overview of the dark polarity history and agendas of manipulation on planet Earth.  Some other writers, such as David Icke, William Bramley, &amp; Zechariah Sitchin go into details about the history of alien interventions, including the unsettling details about reptilians and the elites offered by Icke.  The Handbook for The New Paradigm trilogy alludes to these factors in a non-detailed process-oriented way, making them easier to digest and process in a spiritual framework.  However, if you want more tangible confirmation of these issues you may wish to consult these other authors.	2002-09-28
US	51638416	R3G1JP0X5KPZJE	1571741038	916454618	Conversations With God : An Uncommon Dialogue (Book #3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Profound Food For Thought &amp; Spiritual Awakening	This was the Conversations With God book that really resonated with me when I first read it.  Having previously read the first 2 books before I was fully ready for them, CWG 3 really got me to go back and review these ideas.  This book tackles some of the really big issues of creation and existence, inspiring us to think outside the boxes that have been imposed on humanity by existing religious, social, and psuedo-scientific dogmas.  Not everything in these dialogues is simply understood, as sometimes the implications of the dialogue are subtle.  These dialogues encourage each of us to expand our mind and explore our connection with Creation, instead of giving people some dogmatic rules to make them feel like there are things they can do to satisfy &quot;God.&quot;  This book is an excellent, captivating contribution to the spiritual/metaphysical literature of our era, even though after you read it you may realize that EVERY conversation is a conversation with god, yet &quot;God&quot; is the infinite Source of existence and therefore can't be confined to human words or conversations.  Enjoy that paradox!	2002-09-02
US	51638416	R33NRNV8FV93YZ	039914644X	743377092	Healing ADD: The Breakthrough Program that Allows You to See and Heal the 6 Types of ADD	Books	3	25	34	N	N	Lots of Research & Effort, Somewhat distorted conclusions	Dr. Amen has done a lot of work with modern brain imaging technology, and has charted correlations with patterns of brain activity and add/adhd subtypes.  His research is certainly useful and somewhat helpful in identifying approaches for treatment.  It also helps predict which medications are likely to have an immediate negative effect on a given person.  However, the mind-brain connection goes BOTH ways, so the brain activity is affected by both biochemical factors and emotional/psychological factors.  Thus, the imaging doesn't really prove what Amen claims it does, namely that ADD is a specific set of biological abnormalities [interpreted properly this research fits with the idea that ADD is a menu of symptoms that are triggered by multiple biological and psychological factors].  The fact that Amen uses EEG neurofeedback successfully disproves his idea of ADD as an essentially biological illness, since symptoms that can be resolved by the mind can also be created by the mind.  Amen's commentary minimizes the hazards of medications prescribed under his methods, and while acknowledging nutritional/dietary factors, he underplays their significance, especially with regard to allergies and sensitivities.  I also suggest people consider that the brain imaging procedure itself presents a potential health risk, and that there are a number of effective non-drug nutritional, neurofeedback, and psychosocial interventions that don't necessitate any expensive radiating the brain with SPECT scans.  This book is worth reading and has some useful information, but parts of it are misguided or misleading.	2002-09-02
US	51638416	R3CTTV96VF46WX	0965951316	71485188	ADHD: A Path to Success: A Revolutionary Theory and New Innovation in Drug-Free Therapy	Books	5	30	35	N	N	Emotional Repatterning Approach For ADHD	Having been to the author's website and viewed the book index and initial portion of his book and related articles, I must say that this approach is logical and consistent with the concepts used in EMDR and neurolinguistic programming.  The one negative review I see posted focuses on suggesting that this book is intended to get people to come use the author's exclusive computerized device, in addition to blaming parents & family dysfunction.  In reality, the same CAER approach can be used without the author's device, adapting other methods of relaxation and guided imagery.  Also, the \\"cause\\" is not explained as simply dysfunctional home environment, but as the emotional defense mechanism used in reaction to social stressors, a mechanism that some children could become more dependent on than are other children, due to biological or other factors.  It's not about placing blame, but finding healthy solutions.  Most people in our civilization have some level of \\"dysfunction\\" in their home and/or school environment, while only a certain percentage become dependent on ADHD behavioral responses.  The author's approach can desensitize an individual to these negative triggers.  This is empowering, not blaming, and the approach can be applied for family members and teachers to help them release unhealthy emotional responses that contribute to negative patterns.  This book is a great complement to the literature on holistic, non-coercive approaches to addressing ADHD issues.	2002-09-02
US	51638416	R3QKTVUNGYP947	1571741038	916454618	Conversations With God : An Uncommon Dialogue (Book #3)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Profound Food For Thought &amp; Spiritual Awakening	This was the Conversations With God book that really resonated with me when I first read it.  Having previously read the first 2 books before I was fully ready for them, CWG 3 really got me to go back and review these ideas.  This book tackles some of the really big issues of creation and existence, inspiring us to think outside the boxes that have been imposed on humanity by existing religious, social, and psuedo-scientific dogmas.  Not everything in these dialogues is simply understood, as sometimes the implications of the dialogue are subtle.  These dialogues encourage each of us to expand our mind and explore our connection with Creation, instead of giving people some dogmatic rules to make them feel like there are things they can do to satisfy &quot;God.&quot;  This book is an excellent, captivating contribution to the spiritual/metaphysical literature of our era, even though after you read it you may realize that EVERY conversation is a conversation with god, yet &quot;God&quot; is the infinite Source of existence and therefore can't be confined to human words or conversations.  Enjoy that paradox!	2002-09-02
US	51638416	R2BVY7RVPP7WII	1571741038	916454618	Conversations With God : An Uncommon Dialogue (Book #3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Profound Food For Thought &amp; Spiritual Awakening	This was the Conversations With God book that really resonated with me when I first read it.  Having previously read the first 2 books before I was fully ready for them, CWG 3 really got me to go back and review these ideas.  This book tackles some of the really big issues of creation and existence, inspiring us to think outside the boxes that have been imposed on humanity by existing religious, social, and psuedo-scientific dogmas.  Not everything in these dialogues is simply understood, as sometimes the implications of the dialogue are subtle.  These dialogues encourage each of us to expand our mind and explore our connection with Creation, instead of giving people some dogmatic rules to make them feel like there are things they can do to satisfy &quot;God.&quot;  This book is an excellent, captivating contribution to the spiritual/metaphysical literature of our era, even though after you read it you may realize that EVERY conversation is a conversation with god, yet &quot;God&quot; is the infinite Source of existence and therefore can't be confined to human words or conversations.  Enjoy that paradox!	2002-09-02
US	51638416	R4BJEVRVSSGRF	0066210836	309315138	Rulers of Evil: Useful Knowledge about Governing Bodies	Books	4	27	39	N	Y	Novel Analysis of Jesuit/Catholic Role In Occult History	This book presents a groundbreaking examination of the role of the Catholic Church & the Jesuit Order in the history of America and Western Civilization.  This book contains excellent scholarship and interesting theories, although I perceive it to have a significant flaw associated with the author's beliefs.  The author has Protestant Biblical beliefs, and sees the Jesuits/Catholic Church Hierarchy as a Divinely-appointed force of evil that is necessary to separate the dark from the light among humanity.  This personification of the Creative Source limits Saussy's ability to see the bigger picture.  Also, this view would help the devious schemers rationalize their endeavors as a \\"necessary evil.\\"  It shouldn't take a genious to figure out that pretty much all major religious organizations have been started or infiltrated by devious schemers who wish to use a benevolent-appearing spiritual institution as a cover for treachery and depravity.  The Roman Catholic Church & Jesuit Order are apparently the most dominant and potent network of this type of scheming over the last 2 millennia, although they are not really independent or unconnected to other secret societies and cabals, as the Jesuits have been connected by historians with the Illuminati, Nazis, Freemasons, Templars, Communists, and other sects and movements.  Despite what the Amazon editorial review suggests, the book is not against Catholics, it merely exposes what the forces within the church have been up to.  Also, the \\"Protocols of Zion\\" was apparently not what it appeared to be, but rather a coded, forged document intended to turn people against Jews rather than the shadowy secretive occult/elite group behind the protocols, if and when the plan was exposed.	2002-08-21
US	51638416	RC4OZ7BWEHEZ	0962644668	764711154	Blue Blood, True Blood: Conflict & Creation	Books	5	63	72	N	N	Fascinating Personal Story &amp; Planetary History	This is a fascinating account that blends the author's personal experiences with information he has learned about<br />our planetary history, the global elites, and their plans for Earth.  The descriptions of Illuminati rituals may be hard for some people to handle, and survivors of similar abuse may wish to skip that portion of the book.  This book is a follow-up to Stewart's previous book Montauk: The Alien Connection.  Both books make the reader wonder what's real and what is programming or disinformation that the author presents unknowingly or uncritically.  Blue Blood True Blood covers a lot of material, and it would have been nice if some topics had been presented in further depth.  Each reader must decide for themselves what they consider to be true or not, and this book will certainly challenge many readers.  The author has had remarkable experiences, and his efforts to spread his information and insights are a commendable contribution to those seeking truth and pieces of hidden history.	2002-08-21
US	51638416	R2K3FG69Z44LVQ	1578631181	60134253	Reiki Hands That Heal	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Nice Pictures & Healing Info, but distorts what Reiki is	This book has a beautiful cover and lots of useful pictures inside.  It also offers information about complementary forms of natural healing and Reiki healing techniques for specific conditions or organs.  However, it is focused on maintaining exclusivity for Reiki healers and relies on the Takata/Samdahl stories and lineage, which distort the universality of Reiki healing.  Reiki healing is a set of practices for connecting to and transmitting high frequency spiritual/subtle energy, and is not exclusive to any particular Reiki organization or lineage.  A Reiki student can develop or NOT develop power and skill as a healer regardless of who taught them.  I would make an analogy to establishment education, where people go to colleges and follow a curriculum, and upon completing their coursework some become very skillful and gifted at a profession while others don't.  Meanwhile, many people have been quite gifted and accomplished in a field solely through self-education and effort, or innate talent.  Expensive and lengthy Reiki courses may garner a higher frequency of commitment (within those taking the course), but they do this by discouraging some people who would otherwise pursue this healing path.  There seems to be a fear that quickie Reiki courses will minimize the Reiki profession/art, rather than an appreciation for the spread of interest and availability for basic Reiki training, which benefits many people.	2002-08-18
US	51638416	R3PWKRHFSXXSZN	0968810004	739528324	Modern Reiki Method for Healing	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Comprehensive Manual For Learning &amp; Teaching Reiki	This book has a very comprehensive examination of Reiki healing, including history and both Western &amp; Japanese techniques.  It promotes the non-exclusivity of Reiki and its availability to anyone, with an outline of how a Reiki class may be organized.  The book is lacking in illustrations, and it was seemingly translated to English in a bit of a hurry, with some awkward sentences and phrasing in places.  Overall, a rather accurate explanation of Reiki healing methods and Reiki spiritual philosophy.	2002-08-18
US	51638416	R6FY2IS7F9OXG	0895947366	768877570	Essential Reiki: A Complete Guide to an Ancient Healing Art	Books	4	9	13	N	N	A Libertarian Approach to Reiki: lots of info, some flaws	This book was the first text I read in my Reiki healing & teaching path.  Having gained insights and information from experience and many other sources, I'm now in a better position to discern the quality of Diane Stein's contribution.  This book opens Reiki up to ANYONE willing to borrow the book or pay [$$$] to buy it.  Making Reiki more open and accessible was a great contribution, as Reiki is the spiritual life-force that we are all a part/manifestation of.  However, Diane is a little bit too open to information sources such as the connections between Reiki healing and Jesus as well as the extraterrestrials.  While those histories may be half-true, Diane seems to take them for granted as pure fact, like she does with the stories about Usui that have subsequently been disproved.  She also recommends some chi exercises that may not be ideal for everyone.  I recommend this book for it's openness & wealth of information and ideas, while I recommend reading other books to balance out some of the flaws in Diane's interpretations of things.	2002-08-18
US	51638416	R2MMGP1YQFF904	0914955675	885634886	The Spirit of Reiki: From Tradition to the Present  Fundamental Lines of Transmission, Original Writings, Mastery, Symbols, Treatments, Reiki as a ... in Life, and Much More (Shangri-La Series)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Nice Overview of Reiki Healing &amp; Traditions	This book carefully examines the roots of Reiki healing and the nature of energy healing, from a metaphysical and scientific perspective.  It provides many beneficial insights and explanations, covering everything from chakras &amp; subtle energy layers to shamanism, the meridians, and Taoist theories of yin/yang &amp; 5 elements.  In covering so much, the authors address some issues that need to be covered in more depth.  For example, the chakra color associations listed are misleading, and the elements described are just one system which is not compared to other common metaphysical/alchemical systems.  Nevertheless, this book is about the best at putting Reiki in a suitable context and explaining how and why it produces healing and transformation.	2002-08-18
US	51638416	R37QUAJ00JWIX7	0962550019	675029934	Reiki Handbook: A Manual for Students and Therapists of the Usui Shiki Ryhoho System of Healing	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Basic Reiki & Lots of Misinfo	This book presents itself as a Reiki I manual, and uses a lot of space to show hand positions and leaves spaces for notes and journaling.  It devotes a lot of space to Reiki for animals and provides some simplistic information about healing diets and dishes for humans and animals.  It tells the Reiki history that has been shown to be mythology, and generally presents only basic and incomplete information.  I guess only a Reiki I would be likely to accept this book as authoritative.  There are now many other more useful books about Reiki, and if you want to take notes during your practice just buy a cheap pad or book of paper.	2002-08-18
US	51638416	R1AAG6HU54W5DQ	0953881016	571638377	Children of the Matrix: How an Interdimensional Race has Controlled the World for Thousands of Years-and Still Does	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Refined &amp; Expanded Overview of the REAL Matrix Conspiracy...	Icke has updated his previous works with more information, much of which has been seen on his website in the last couple years.  He appears to have refined some of his views based on criticisms of The Biggest Secret, though the basic ideas are the same and are more thoroughly and accurately documented this time.  This is a lot of material to cover, and Icke has made a worthy effort.  It's an interesting synchronicity that this was released the same month as Matrix V from Leading Edge Research Group.  The coming decade should be very interesting!	2001-07-27
US	51638416	R2XKEFWC3KL9TZ	1571540024	893132687	The Astrological Foundation of the Christ Myth	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Biblical tales understood as symbolic astronomy &amp; science	The author does a good job of identifying the astrological symbolism in the New &amp; Old Testaments, including the solar mythos that parallels many other religious fables of the world.  The author attempts to identify multiple levels of interpretation of Biblical passages, although the book is rather slim and really just scratches the surface of the levels of information encoded in the Bible.  Besides the astronomical symbolism, there is also historical/racial propaganda, social engineering/moral persuasion, reference to extraterrestrial factions and activities, alchemical/spiritual symbolism for initiates, sacred geometry, and other types of coded information, involving multiple groups and agendas.  A whole encyclopedia would be needed to thoroughly cover these topics.	2001-07-27
US	51638416	R3UJ41XVF3AOYK	0963225200	811642700	The Ultimate Frontier	Books	3	9	9	N	N	The Ultimate Pastiche...	Richard, aka Eklal, has put together a narrative of somewhat haphazardly revealed information from esoteric lore.  While some of the information is valid, other parts present distortions which make me question the true  intentions and wisdom of Richard's &quot;Brotherhood&quot; sources.  You  can get some more complete and accurate esoteric information for free on  various websites.  Meanwhile, I'd suggest taking up remote viewing to  validate any esoteric information one encounters and plans to act on.	2000-01-05
