US	51631879	R102QQMIHP5CN1	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Short Book But One to Be Savoured and Contemplated	I picked up this book while traveling and it was just a perfect book for me at the time. Paul Cohelo writes of the journey of a young man and a teacher of life, or 'an alchemist.'    I realize that some may view this story as very simplistic or even a boring read. I myself found it fascinating from my lived experience of viewing 'life as journey.' I recall one of my college teachers years ago speaking of Kierkegaard and his writings on Purity of Heart As The Will to Live One Thing. Cohelo's story has rekindled my interest in that theme as well as some of the themes that Don Juan in the Carlos Castenada series addresses to his student.    An excellent and thought provoking book not to be rushed despite its brevity.  Daniel J. Maloney, Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2005-02-25
US	51631879	R7VW5NWROXL5H	0232517371	847469515	Circles of Love: Daily Readings	Books	5	5	5	N	N	New Edition Published by Merton, Longman and Todd	I greatly admire Henri Nouwen's life and his entire collection of writings (40+ books). This Dutch priest, a Yale and Harvard professor, gave up his teaching to seek out God's call for his life. He eventually settled in the L'Arche Daybreak Community in Toronto Canda for the last ten years of his life as chaplain and caregiver to the mentally retarded residents.    Nouwen's writings reflect a genuine human struggle to draw closer to God. While a Catholic priest, he was focused on the Jesus story as it applied to his life and he didn't waste any time on the trappings of the institutional church. Nouwen had friends all over the world and another of the books available allows more than 50 who knew him to comment on their experience of Henri as he touched their lives. Throughout his life, Nouwen wrote of his quest for God. He spoke in very simple, human and compassionate ways that found many people from all walks of life being drawn to his message. This daily meditation book offers the reader a sampling of Henri Nouwen's thoughts and struggles on the journey on a wide variety of themes. Its a great resource for daily readings to bring focus to our days or as a source of prayer when starting a meeting. Many people from vastly differing faith tradition embrace Nouwen's message,his struggles for greater faith and his prayers for courage.     His tremendous body of work that speaks to the everyday man or woman has grown in recognition increasingly since his death and the light he cast through his writing, lecturing, ministry and teaching continues to grow. Henri Nouwen died suddenly during a visit to his family in the Netherlands in 1996.     Highly recommended. Daniel J. Maloney, Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2004-12-19
US	51631879	R10258BPVOV4IL	1889242039	509842174	For the Love of Teaching: And Other Reasons Teachers Do What They Do	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fifty Devoted Teachers Tell Their Story	When we look for success in education, we can find it in wealthy and poor cities, suburbs and small towns. While theories abound on what's wrong with schools, there is much right as well. When we want to know how a school becomes successful, we need to look no further than the teachers that spend their days with the students in that school. Some would choose to believe that the best schools are found where the most money is spent on them. Some choose to cast blame on large city school systems that they declare disaster zones. However, good schools are found in the midst of all of these places. And so are poor schools. The secret to the places we observe as successful schools are its teachers. There is no magic or panacea of reform in higher standards, testing and whatever tomorrow's reform will be when we drop last year's which has proven to be too complex to actually work.    In a time when legal and bureaucratic changes abound that promise to \\"save and improve education,\\" For the Love of Teaching is a book that allows over 50 teachers who are committed educators to tell their stories of why they love what they do and why they continue despite the obstacles, the poor pay and the often demoralizing work conditions. They stay for the kids. And undoubtedly these are teachers who succeed. And it is their students who are the winners as a result.     If we hope to improve our nation's educational system, we need to attract and retain excellent committed teachers with high expectations like the one editor Ida Schull interviewed for this book. Their stories are inspiration for those who teach in that they should serve to reaffirm one's choice in becoming an educator. For others, most especially school board members, state education leaders and politicians, a book like For the Love of Teaching should serve as a roadmap to truly improving the state of American Education.    A truly worthwhile book of inspiring stories of teachers devoted to their students! Daniel J. Maloney, Saint Paul, Minnesota	2004-12-19
US	51631879	R79L1LE3B3W80	1569550573	816234662	Mornings With Henri J. M. Nouwen: Readings and Reflections	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Among the Most Inspired Catholic Writers of the 20th Century	Henri Nouwen, in my opinion, will be considered one of the most inspired Catholic writers of the 20th Century. Nouwen wrote from his lived experience of being human and yet, finding himself always on a quest for a closer union with God.    With Thomas Merton, Dorothy Day, and Mother Teresa, Nouwen will in time be considered one of the luminary spiritual writers of the last century.    Mornings With Henri Nouwen is just a series of very brief reflections that can be used to start one's day. I really like these types of books and tend to leave them in different places around my house so that I will come across different ones at different times of the day.    The topics covered weave Nouwen's writings into them and are truly good thoughts to consider at the start of the day.     Highly recommended for a spiritual focal point to start the day with.     Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota, USA	2004-12-19
US	51631879	R2SP45131RDKLH	0871139170	167765301	Wonderland: A Year in the Life of an American High School	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A School Where Kids Are Happy and Involved: Refreshing!	The most \\"wondorous\\" thing about Michael Bamberger's book on Pennsbury High School in Pennsylvania is that it is not an indictment of what is wrong with the American Educational System like so many other books on Education. It's not the tales of woe of unhappy students, disaffected teachers, crime or financial waste.     Quite the contrary: Wonderland is a book that illustrates how excellent education occurs in a school where the the faculty and staff care about the kids, have standards, believe in what they are doing and work hard at realizing high expectations. Its a book about kids who are effectively engaged in school academically and through extra and co-curricular activities. Its a book about parents, who despite differing socio-economic standing, support their kids education and value the school and its traditions.     As much as there are many grand plans for the reform of education that will \\"really show results\\" there are no better results to be found than in schools like Pennsbury where professionals, parents, the community, and the kids themselves, value the educational process, and where each group does its part to achieve success.    Bamberger does a remarkable job of capturing the life and pulse of a high school across the year he visits Pennbury as a returned 'senior'.  He gets to know students and faculty, is able to move between the two groups without forming alliances, or becoming judgemental. He tells his stories through the daily events of the school as seen through individual faculty and student eyes. He introduces real people from Pennsbury as characters we begin to care about and root for, as the year proceeds.  And, by this rather ordinary reporting, Bamberger presents a pretty eloquent and exciting story of kids learning, growing, worrying, groaning and progressing, and of the adults who are in their lives through these developmental years.    Pennsbury is a story that is worthy of being told because it is a school like many of the other good ones that we never read about because they aren't besieged by scandal, or crime or some other 'newsworthy' problem. But, it is a remarkable story in that it gives witness to the most vital elements of excellent education at work. We don't need to rebuild the American Educational System. We need to see that the most important ingredients for good education are at work --  together -- on behalf of the success of kids.  When administraors, teachers and staff are devoted to their work, engage the students, enlist the support of parents and the local community, good education takes place. And that is pretty exciting and amazing! More stories of good schools like Pennsbury need to be told so that people begin to see that the wheel doesn't need to be reinvented. We know how good education happens. Lets see that it happens in all places that kids call school throughout our country.    A well told and inspiring story.    Highly recommended!    Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota	2004-12-11
US	51631879	R2CTVWD1H1ZXTT	0440242002	430694437	Bleachers	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Worthy Tale on Our Heroes	Bleachers is a story about high school football and its lasting impact on the players years after they have played.    The story is about Coach Eddie Rake who ruled football at the high school in this small southern town for 37 years. He was a hard-driving coach who expected a whole lot from his players and he often got it in the form of some truly star players and some long winning streaks of consecutive undefeated seasons. While the players often appreciated winning, they weren't always grateful for his methods. The result is that everyone who ever played for Coach Rake carries him somewhere inside himself for the rest of his life -- often with simultaneous affection and disdain.    As the story takes place, Coach Rake is dying from cancer in his 70's and the former players come home, many from great distances, to  take up a vigil in the stadium bleachers awaiting the lights to go out on the field signifying that Coach Rake has passed away. The guys go over 'old times', 'fond memories' and the 'darker sides' of their lives with, and since, their time as a player for Coach Rake. For some of the players, the vigil for their Coach is a chance to bring some closure to some unresolved feelings and in one particular case, to come to terms with some self imposed obstacles to life that one man blames on the Coach.    I really became engrossed in the story more quickly than I expected. My initial reaction to the book at the start, once I realized it wasn't a Grisham mystery, was to toss it aside. But, I kept on reading and I am glad I did.    No one who makes an impact on our lives is perfect. Too often, and very unfairly, we expect perfection from our heroes. Coach Rake wasn't perfect and no man or woman is. That's a pretty important moral for us all to remember. Americans tend to want to worship heroes. We raise them up, and then we somehow have an almost instantaneous desire to destroy them the minute they show their imperfect side. How unfair that black and white thinking is. The very nature of the human condition is its imperfection. Yet, despite an intellectual understanding of that fact, we still turn people into heroes and then hold them to standards that are impossible to live up to over time. Then, we are outraged and often become vengeful.    I appreciated the approach that Grisham took in this story and as a result, did some thinking about my own role models and heroes -- most, if not all of whom, have ended up letting me down in some way. As I reflect on it,  I realize how I was unfair in my expectations that they be more than any human being is capable of being. And, I was even more unfair to hold a grudge as a result. Fortunately, in my own case, I think I have made peace with most of those people in my life -- living and dead. But as a result of this book, I give myself an important reminder that I sure want people to accept me for myself, human imperfection and all, and not have them turn me into someone I can't be.     So, in turn, I have to be fair enough to extend that same respect and compassion for others.    As the vigil in the Bleachers comes to an end and as Coach Rake's funeral takes place, it is the Coach himself who teaches a final lesson to his former players through a letter he asked his daughter to read during the service. In it, he tells his players to be happy people; he implores them to go forward and to live good lives. He asks them for forgiveness for the times that he was too harsh or simply wrong. He acknowledges that he has battled his own demons of self recrimination as a result of his inability to be a better human being and because of his limitations of not knowing how to ask for forgiveness and in his inability to apologize when he should have. Ultimately, in death, Eddie Rake is a hero for all through his final lesson on his own humanity and through his awkward but implicit acknowledgment that he has always loved every player he had the opportunity to work with and only wanted the very bestfor them. Good story. Good lessons.    Highly recommended.    Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota, USA	2004-12-10
US	51631879	R1MW9PBHKOHCK	1400062772	435873030	Donorboy: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Halpin Captures Teen Cyberspeak in a Powerful Tale	In Donorboy, writer and teacher Brendan Halpin does a remarkable job in capturing the ways of adolescent communication in this online world.     The basis of Donorboy is the union of an orphaned girl, Rosalind, and Sean Cassidy, the man who donated the sperm that resulted in her conception. When Rosalind's lesbian Mom dies, custody falls to Sean, a totally unprepared, poorly domesticated, never married, thirtysomething lawyer. The union is heart wrenching and comical by turns.    Rosalind spends her first months of mourning writing an online Grief journal which is deeply sad, extremely angry, and hysterically funny all at the same time. A great deal of her journal rage is directed at Sean, who is a safe bet since its \\"not right to be angry at her mom\\" and since Sean is an unknown quanity whom she has been forced to live with. So he makes for the object of a pretty safe scapegoat -- especially since he doesn't get to read what she is writing.      The story is initially told in the adolescent voice of Rosalind in the language that kids use to write online. In that respect, it is somewhat awkward to catch its rhythm right at the start, unless one speaks (and reads) Adolescent as a Second Language.    Through the story, we come to admire these two strong characters as they attempt to come to some truce and a common ground on which to create a relationship and an amicable life together.     Sean recognizes that speaking directly to Rosalind is only met with stoney silences. So he takes to e-mailing her and to that extent the entire book is really a series of online and e-mail entries that document the union of these two characters.    Despite her anger and her tremendous sense of loss, Rosalind eventually opens up to Sean and they find themselves bonding.    Halpin has done a remarkable job of truly capturing the teen voice and in expressing the profound loss and the anger of a teen who loses a parent. The story is comical, touching, sad and full of hope for better times.     In the last four years Brendan Halpin has become a fresh new voice on the scene. He draws much from his own life experiences and does a remarkable, and often enough, humorous job in whatever story he is telling.    Highly recommended -- especially for a teen who may be struggling with loss.    Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota, USA	2004-12-10
US	51631879	R2R9QICCASB264	1593370083	674944561	Cup Of Comfort For Teachers	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Teachers Need to Know	The work of a teacher is a daunting sacred trust that is placed on a mere mortal. The work is hard, the hours long, and the pay -- whatever it may be -- is insufficient.    Teachers need to be able to stop and deliberately refuel emotionally on a regular basis. The life of a teacher has many days when one wonders whether all that is involved is worth it. Kids aren't always too generous in letting teachers know that they are appreciated. While some parents go out of their way to acknowledge their child's teacher, others treat teachers as a public utility of sorts: -- I pay taxes; create miracles with my child -- it's your job!     So, in the midst of the ongoing challenges that define the life of a teacher, especially during those times when there seems to be little hope, teachers need to be able to reach for some external sources of inspiration and reinforcement.      A Cup of Comfort is one of those refueling sources . It is a wonderfully inspiring book of success stories. Many of the stories are of teachers who made a pivotal impact in the life of a student through their generosity of spirit and their unwillingness to give up.     Comfort offers glimpses of the miracles and hope that education can make in the life of a student through the work of dedicated and caring teachers.    A wonderful book for all teachers!    Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota, USA	2004-12-10
US	51631879	RO51S55T7DY5Y	0399152199	370413722	Trace: A Scarpetta Novel	Books	3	9	9	N	N	I Give Up	I have been a diehard Kay Scarpetta fan right from the start. However, in the last three books, Kay has become an angry bitter character and Trace is no different. Clearly, Cornwell doesn't take the joy she once did in writing about this character and it shows.     Sadly, this will be my last Kay Scarpetta mystery. I defended her in earlier reviews and told new readers to give Cornwell a chance. I'm done. I give up. I don't see any reason to waste money on Cornwell's books in the future if her recent work is any example of her willingness to work hard for her readers and for her characters. Perhaps a bit too much success, a bit too much money to be bothered anymore Ms. Cornwell? Count me out.    Disappointed.	2004-12-10
US	51631879	R3W25AK0R6W3GW	1893224872	686488148	Puppetmaster: The Secret Life of J. Edgar Hoover	Books	5	33	35	N	N	The Extremes of Light and Dark in One Human Being	Puppetmaster chronicles the life and career of J. Edgar Hoover, Director of the FBI for over fifty years that lasted continuously across the landscape of eight different U.S. presidents.    Author Richard Hack brings us an engaging look at Hoover's career and his enormous influence in structuring the FBI as an important and powerful law enforcement agency concerned with many of the homeland security issues of the time.    Hoover is an ultimate icon of how one human being can do so much good and yet, at the same time, resort to some of the most corrupt immoral and un-American tactics to achieve his goals.     His life is an example of a highly organized and determined American who believed he was doing what was best for America during his fifty year directorship, He accomplished a tremendous amount in building a strong and stable agency that was truly valuable, and continues to be so, in assisting criminal investigations and apprehensions throughout the country.     Unfortunately, J. Edgar Hoover was a human being who became a bit too impressed with the aura he had created about himself and his very profound human insecurity made him a dangerous person. He was the living embodiment of the axiom that 'power corrurpts and absolute power corrupts absolutely.'    In the interests of national security, Hoover perpetrated some oif the most heinous acts of immorality witnessed in American history. Don't forget, he was in charge for fifty years!  Hoover ruined lives, invaded good people's privacy, blackmailed politicians and presidents and believed that he was more important than the very Presidents of the United States he served. That Hoover outlasted eight presidents is witness to the degree to which he so diabolically gathered private and potentially damanging information on others. He made himself indispensable because of his potential danger to important people's lives. They surrendered to him.    Puppetmaster is a well told story of one human being, his influence on our nation and at the same time, the tale of a lonely, powerful, arrogant man who was so insecure in himself that he started confusing national interest with his own peculiar needs. And, he got away with it.    A very worthy read!    Daniel J, Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota	2004-05-05
US	51631879	R2QQBCPEXRFREU	0060723890	432967836	The Other Man: John F. Kennedy Jr., Carolyn Bessette, and Me	Books	4	24	29	N	N	Fortunately We Believe In Everybody's Chance to Speak	The Other Man is the much criticized autobiography by Michael Bergin about his relationship with the late Carolyn Bessette Kennedy. Some say, shame on him. I have to say Bergin should get his turn. We tend to want to lionize the whole Kennedy mystique. Well among a great deal of good, there has been a whole lot of sadness and tragedy. Let's not forget, that this is the United States. We believe in freedom of expression. Just because Bergin doesn't have a wonderful Camelot story to tell doesn't make him the bad guy.     It's no secret that John Kennedy and Carolyn Bessette weren't having the Camelot marriage. Much has been publicized about that even before their tragic deaths. Michael Bergin was \\"the other man\\". And, Carolyn Bessette was apparently a fairly complex and puzzling woman. She had a relationship going with Michael Bergin for a pretty significant time before her marriage to John F. Kennedy, Jr. He thought it was exclusive. It obviously wasn't. And, by Bergin's account, she returned to him a few times even after the marriage.     Bergin's name has been dragged through the mud and this is his chance to tell his story.    In reading The Other Man, I found Bergin to be lowkeyed and honest -- from his point of view. It's no Pulitzer Prize material but I don't begrudge Michael Bergin his chance to tell his story.     For those who read everything that's ever written about the Kennedy's, this is one you will want to consider along with all of the other books that have been published. Despite what grandfather Joseph Kennedy may have wished to portray, his family was human and flawed. Much good has been done by the family. Some of its members haven't always shown their best selves in public, or in what they may have thought was in private. But ultimately, they seem to be decent human beings trying to live life in the public spotlight -- clearly not an easy life. And all in all, the Kennedy's have certainly been a significant part of recent American History.    Bergin's book deserves as much consideration as any other Kennedy Insider story has received.    Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota, USA	2004-04-02
US	51631879	RH2ZYQR4XRIR	1400060834	329078508	Losing My Faculties: A Teacher's Story	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Listen to the Experts - Ask a Teacher	Losing My Faculties  By Brendan Halpin    Hardly a day passes that we don't read an article or hear a story about schools. Most often, we hear what's wrong with schools. Reports of promised reform and fix-it-once-and-for-all solutions are commonplace. And one has to wonder after a while, if these magical solutions are finally going to fix things, then why do we continue to hear about how bad schools are year after year after year?    Far too absent among the reports of what's wrong with education are the voices of teachers who spend day after day, year after year, in the schools that outsiders are always promising to reform!    Teaching is a special calling. It is not a profession one enters for the money, nor for the prestige (and certainly not -- contrary to oft-heard cynic's explanation -- for the easy life, clean work and summers off!)     By and large, most teachers want to do a good job. They want their students to learn and they try to do their very best to achieve those ends.    Losing My Faculties is the story of one very committed teacher who truly considers teaching to be a special and important vocation. And it is also a story of teaching as a profession that can't help but make the person choosing it as a lifework to wonder about their sanity from time to time.    Author Brendan Halpin tells his own story of his journey through his first eight years as a teacher in Boston area schools. This is Halpin's chronicle of his beginning years as he works in four different schools across the span the book. He tells of his good experiences with his students, his classes that are great. He acknowledges his failures and shortcomings as a teacher and he clearly considers what he, as one teacher, can continue to do to try to improve.     Brendan Halpin tells his story in a straightforward almost conversational way. One can imagine sitting with a friend as he relays the story of work across a series of years. The result is a comical, blunt and spirited book that always shows a profound concern for kids. There is no question but that Brendan Halpin should be a teacher. He;s a natural! Sadly, I could easily see him hanging up his schoolbag and finding himself a new path on which to travel.    There is ample evidence that schools indeed need to get back to basics and stop the business of constantly seeking to start over again. Education is big business for some. Reform is an industry into itself. Testing is a monopoly. There are as many educational experts and consultants as there are schools in this country! Few of these businesses are truly concerned about improving education.    If legislators and school leaders truly want to make improvements in schools, they need to start with hiring, paying and affirming good teachers. Start spending time with teachers. Listen to them. Work side by side with them for a while.     If someone regularly told me how lousy I was, or how bad everyone in my profession was,  it wouldn't take me very long to get discouraged. We have far too many discouraged teachers in this country! We lose way too many new teachers each year because they are never given the kind of support and mentoring they need to become great teachers.     Yes, there are poor teachers. Get rid of them! Keep the schools as simple as possible. And, above all, yes, return to the basics. History long demonstrates to us that gimmicks aren't the answer. Excellent education happens where a safe and caring environment is created for kids to learn. Success happens where there are dedicated teachers with high expectations who care about their students. Excellent education isn't always found in affuent school districts or in the most modern of schools. It is found where competent people care, work hard and challenge their students to do the same. In these schools there is a fundamental affirmation for the sacred calling that teaching is for anyone who undertakes its work. And, the results show.    As Brendan Halpin chronicles his journey through the often-unpleasant start of his career, he indirectly tells us just what is wrong with education. Perhaps we need to listen more carefully to his story, and the stories of many others who have the courage and energy to do this same work with America's future on a daily basis. Stop paying the testing companies. Halt the consultancies. Forget the experts. We have them in our schools. Put some of the money being wasted on outsiders back into the schools. And, then and only then will education see true reform!    Highly recommended.    Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota, USA	2004-03-20
US	51631879	R3LHFNYRZ94GB	0060559713	394086660	The Day the World Came to Town: 9/11 in Gander, Newfoundland	Books	5	7	7	N	N	One Glimpse of Human Greatness!	A friend told me about The Day the World Came to Town a while back. I knew it was about September 11th and I was feeling a bit overloaded on the sad stories that resulted from that tragic day so I put it off.     Of course, I knew there had been some amazing demonstrations of community, heroism, and other stories of the unexpected graces that resulted from that horrible day's events and yet this story was probably the one that made me fully appreciate the paradox of grace in the midst of tragedy all the more.    Gander, New Foundland has never been a major tourist spot on anyone's map in its history. However, many have touched down in Gander over the years as it served as a refueling station for prop planes and jetliners before they had better capacity for transcontinental travel without a fuel stop.     Gander is a small town of 10,000 and when 38 jets were ordered out of the skies on September 11th to Gander, some 6500 'new citizens suddenly arrived without notice.    What followed the arrival of those jets and the frightened human beings aboard makes for the incredible story of a community that stopped everything it was doing and welcomed their guests as if they were relatives. And, this wasn't just a quick stop. Gander provided for the 'plane people' for three days without any master plan and advance preparation.     The Day the World Came to Town is an inspiring story about the strength and goodness to be found in ordinary human beings when they come together in tough times. Author, Jim DeFead does a great job of making this story a personal one. He focuses on the experience of several individuals and families among the local people and the visitors. He tells this amazing story of community through their eyes and hearts.    While I recognize so many have had their fill of stories about September 11th, The Day the World Came to Town is a story to be read again and again to remind us all that this world can still be a hopeful place of incredible grace!    A compelling story of goodness. Highly recommended!    Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2004-03-20
US	51631879	R2M4RGAKTBGXDH	0385510438	817294609	The Last Juror (Grisham, John)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Wonderfully Written; Restores My Faith In Grisham	For me, just one reader, The Last Juror, stands out among all of John Grisham's novels as his very finest work.    With The Last Juror, Grisham shows himself to be an author who has arrived at a point where he is able to pull it all together in a carefully developed, richly written story. The characters are introduced with great attention to detail and as a reader I was quickly drawn into the story and it's setting. The plot is strongly constructed and stays solid through the story's end. Each character is unusual and interesting enough to grow quickly interested in them; some even begin to feel like old friends by the end. The setting is nicely depicted and Grisham's prose really comes across with a sense of what it might be like to be in Clanton, Mississippi during the events of this story.     At one level, The Last Juror is a story that revolves around the brutal rape and murder of one of Clanton, Mississippi's widows and the trial of the man accused. Yet, moreover, this is a story of a town, its history and traditions, its newspaper and of some of the local citizenry. Narrated by Willie Traynor, the young new owner (and outsider) of the town's newspaper, Grisham conveys some touching stories of Traynor's own development from a lackluster college dropout to a highly moral newspaper publisher. He weaves in some of the historical and present day tension between the black and the communities of Clanton, tells some of the story of the town's efforts to muddle through integration and richly communicates the story of one tremendously influential African American role model in the community. And, he does all this without being ponderous. The Last Juror while dealing with a sad incident has a real sense of personality and even a bit of comedy about it.     From my perspective The Last Juror has some of the same rich feel of a novel I have long had great appreciation for, Staggerford, written by Jon Hassler. While Hassler wasn't a mystery writer, and his setting was Northern Minnesota and not the Deep South, the rich and complex writing about one town and it's goings on, has much the same feel.    Kudos to Grisham on this one!    Highly Recommended!    Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2004-03-01
US	51631879	RHMEWJLA9F47R	0316602906	981192109	The Big Bad Wolf	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Welcome to the FBI Alex Cross	I was one of the Patterson critics a few volumes back when I felt that Patterson had become careless in his writing and plot development. While I am aware that there are a number of critics out there who feel that Big Bad Wolf is poor, I disagree. With Big Bad Wolf, Patterson does an excellent job of engaging Alex Cross in a new and captivating chase.    Big Bag Wolf opens With Alex Cross completing the FBI Training Academy program after finally making the decision to switch from the Police Department to the FBI after numerous previous pleas to do so. At this point, Alex is now once again the \\"rookie\\" on the team. And, yet that doesn't stop him from going to the head of the class, and the agency.    Wolf refers to the bad guy Russian mobster who is ruthless in his pursuit of new conquests. One of his little sideline hobbies seems to be brokering attractive American women he arranges to have kidnapped. And, that's the case Alex is determined to solve.     Patterson is masterful at his engaging and brief chapters that say so much in a short period of time. I enjoy his writing precisely because it is not mind bending.     While Stephen King might want to be as unprofessional as to characterize Patterson's fiction as dopey, I am not sure if they are looking for a heavy plodding tome to wade through for my leisure reading. Ironically, that's what I used to find myself doing before I stopped reading Stephen King altogether. James Patterson does a nice job in Wolf and I look forward to his next Alex Cross installation.    A Happy Patterson Camper!    Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2004-01-24
US	51631879	R1OA79WO44ISPG	0399150897	362587713	Blow Fly	Books	5	4	11	N	N	Mid-Career Crisis for Kay Scarpetta and Her Loyal Tribe	Having read all of Patricia Cornwell's Scarpetta novels, I would have to say that Blowfly is not the one to start out with if this is a reader's first trip with Kay Scarpetta. However, I felt the book was quite well developed and carefully written, and it is a natural progression of plot and character development at this juncture in the series.    Blowfly takes place at a trying and extremely difficult period of time in the lives and careers of Kay Scarpetta, Pete Marino, Benton Wesley and Scarpetta's niece, Lucy.     Working quite faithfully and naturally from the events of the last book in the series, Cornwell works with the characters she has created and evolved since the series began many volumes ago. Each of the central characters has undergone a fairly traumatic change in their careers and has suffered enormously as a result of events pretty much beyond their control. This is all critical backdrop to the series as it evolves in the future and I believe it's important for the critics to take that into consideration as they moan and complain that Cornwell has abandoned her readers.    Even within the rotten life circumstances that each of the central figures struggles with, Blowfly offers a richly developed plot involving Jean Paul Chandonne, the notorious serial killer who has left a trail of bodies for Kay Scarpetta in the past. Chandonne is now on death row in Texas and things start to get kind of spooky as his days til execution get shorter and shorter. Kay is drawn back into his life, as are all of the other characters that have been responsible for his captivity and sentence.    A really satisfying story in and of itself, and, I believe the lower key nature of Blowfly when compared to earlier Scarpettas is understandable. And yet, the great detail in the relationships and life events of the main characters seems to be central to the continuation of these characters in future volumes. Cornwell has been faithful to her old friends in Blowfly, and she has demonstrated her skills as a writer once again in this presentation.    With Blowfly as intermission, I now can't wait for the next adventures of Kay Scarpetta and her faithful friends!    A Must for Continuing Scarpetta Fans!    Highly recommended.    Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2004-01-24
US	51631879	R3C1AWX6OT90K9	0060012218	103393582	Geography Club	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another Spark of Hope for Gay and Lesbian Adolescents	Geography Club is a wonderful, hopeful and non-offensive book for all kids and their families. It's the story of a group of very lonely kids in one school who decide to form a support group for gay and lesbian kids. Rather than label the group for what it is out of fear, the kids decided to call it The Geography Club. After all, what kid is going to have much interest in an after-school club supposedly studying maps of the world? There, in the privacy of a what they imagined would be considered a nerd club, the kids create a safe haven to discuss their identities.    Brent Hartinger does a laudable job of developing a story rich in unique an individual character. He does an excellent job in endeavoring to stress the importance of the individual student as opposed to the tried and less than true stereotypes that many hold of gay and lesbian people. The characters are quite delightful in their interactions and the scenarios that play out are quite believable.    Ultimately, Hartinger has developed a tremendously interesting social picture of all of the kids of groups that segment the average American high school.     Geography Club is a wonderful addition to the growing list of very hopeful books that have been emerging in support of gay and lesbian adolescents.     Kids who have different needs in schools often present the greatest challenge to our \\"one size fits all\\" model of education. Sadly, we have many kids with all kinds of different needs falling by the waysides of American Education.    As we appropriately stress the achievement of high academic standards in schools today, we cannot do so without also addressing the very human needs of many of the 'misfits\\" who don't feel very welcome in the very schools that expect them to demonstrate high academic achievement. I believe it's reasonable to assume we need to make kids safe and wanted before we can expect their best achievement. I hope that books like Hartinger's helps at least one kid feel a little more acceptable and understood.     High recommended.       Daniel  J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2004-01-24
US	51631879	R36KGKVX49BFV0	0974575003	763710473	The Designer Revolution	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Exciting Invitation to Imagination and Creative Thinking	I have been carrying The Designer Revolution around in my backpack for almost a month now treasuring its pages, playing with its ideas and being fascinated by its gorgeous graphics.    Author, Valerie Kirschenbaum, a New York City high school teacher has created a truly original book in The Designer Revolution. Yet, I am not sure it is titled correctly. Kirschenbaum has followed her own unique path of inquiry into the world of ideas, education, color, design, technology and history. The book's title somehow doesn't reach out and let the potential reader know the remarkable journey of thought and imagination, which the book invites.    Throughout the book, it is astonishing to watch the many ah ha! moments that Kirschenbaum clearly had on the path of inquiry she instinctively trusted herself on in pursuing the subject of the book.    The Designer Revolution is book on imagination, creativity, and the path of intellect, research, design, color, change and history. It is a book to be treasured over time and to be explored in relation to one's own thinking and ideas.    I believe The Designer Revolution has tremendous potential as a Reader's Club book or as textbook across a number of academic disciplines in higher education. It is particularly suited to advanced seminar where ideas are considered. The book and its ideas can be a wonderful catalyst into any subject as its fundamental premise is that in order to learn new things, we must open our minds and eyes and imaginations. From that open place, new leaps of thought and conceptualization can spring forth. Surely this is a book that one cannot help but enjoy alone, yet it calls out to be shared and discussed!     A final note of praise for Kirschenbaum's The Designer Revolution is that this gorgeously illustrated book full of ideas and beautiful visuals has been priced at less than $25.00. In a world of textbook prices gone mad, this is a truly valuable buy. I don't think anyone who uses this book will be re-sellingit at the end of term. For me at least, it's a book that I love simply because it represents a doorway to new thinking and new ideas. A work well worth savoring over time.    Praise for Valerie Kirschenbaum and her very original publication!    Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2004-01-23
US	51631879	R1DPNK7IHSS59C	0312319142	298733702	Paranoia	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Makes Grisham's The Firm Seem like a Nice Place to Work	Joseph Finder has created a delightful, fast-paced and gripping masterwork of suspense in Paranoia. This is the 21st Century's, The Firm! I can see this book being a bestseller in short order and have no doubt it will eventually be made into a delightfully exciting major motion picture.    Adam Cassidy is a likeable and exceptionally intelligent. yet somewhat aimless twenty-something, employed in a fairly insignificant management position in a high tech company. He could care less about the position, doesn't find himself challenged by his work, and isn't quite yet sure what he wants to be when he \\"grows up.\\" Outside of work, Adam seems to spend his time partying and keeping tabs on his dying father who lives nearby. Despite his father's sickness, he's a mean old man who has a lot of bitterness about life. Adam seems to be his father's favorite scapegoat and visits to the house are usually pretty unpleasant.    Employment for Adam is something one is expected to do at his age. As a result of his carefree attitude toward his job, Adam has few qualms about cutting corners whenever he can. He comes to work late, leaves early, surfs the net and does as little as he has to in order to stay employed.     While hanging out and smoking with the guys on the company's loading dock, Adam befriends a dock worker who has served his entire life at the company and is about to retire. Adam, having little respect for the firm's upper echelon feels for the old man and for how little he has been recognized for all his efforts on behalf of the company. Adam hatches a comical and touching plan to recognize his friend from the loading dock upon his retirement. Without authorization, in fact, winging it, Adam diverts some executive funding to throw Jonesy a retirement party to rival the most extravagant executive blowouts. And, suitably, it is held on the company's loading dock where Jonesy has spent his life. The party is an amazing success and Jonesy is sent off in a style never before experienced by any hourly worker and never likely to be repeated again.    Adam prepares for the trouble he will find himself in once his generosity to Jonesy on behalf of the company is found out. He had psychologically prepared himself to be fired for his generous prank -- perhaps he was even hoping for that. Instead, the company's CEO has an entirely different sort of payback for Adam, and it will change his life in ways he never imagined.    Adam is sent on an espionage mission on behalf of his boss by being required to get hired by the company's chief rival and to report back on what they are working on. Once employed in his new job, Paranoia hits its stride. Adam struggles with being caught up in a double life and an unforgiving former boss who expects big results.    So that this review doesn't give away the best aspects of the story, let's conclude with the image of Adam on the rollercoaster ride of his life - full of chills, and spills and holding your breath!    Author, Joseph Finder has created an exciting and memorable story, even an ultimately very moral story, in the life of Adam Cassidy. Finder has woven a tale so complex that it remains suspense filled to the very last page.    Highly recommended    Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota	2004-01-15
US	51631879	RAT9NAFY4F7NO	0375702695	519535131	Our Guys	Books	5	9	15	N	N	A Tale Ironically Repeating Itself on Long Island in 2003!	This is a very worthy real as the trial begins for boys who were members of a Varsity Football Squad of a Long Island High School who allegedly \\"hazed\\" the Freshman team by sexually abusing some of them with broomksticks, pine cones and golf balls during Summer Football Camp held in Pennsylvania in August 2003. A community stands divided over the whole incident; broomsticks are being thrown at the victims in the parking lot of school; the football season was cancelled and coaches have been terminated. Yet, the healing hasn't even started. Another high school sports tragedy makes its indelible mark on the lives of many!    When high school and college sports have horror stories like the more recent one in 2003 and the earlier one, which Our Guys considers, there is something wrong! When parents and community members try to minimize it because the team's \\"shining lights\\" are involved, that's all the more tragic.    Our Guys is the true story of a young retarded woman in New Jersey who is raped by the \\"stars\\" of the town's football team. Some place in every high school curriculum, this book should be on a required reading list and it should be followed up by some serious discussion of the ethical issues presented in this true account of tragedy. If there is truth to the notion of teachable moments in life, there are many to be found in this book that could benefit every educator, student, parent and community member in this country. I would like to say that Bernard Lefkowitz did an outstanding job researching and preparing to write this compellingly true story. Six stars for Lefkowitz' courage and hard work!!! I well imagine he has received death threats as a result of this outstanding and socially significant book. As far as the reality of this documentary, it is a sad indictment of how we \\"talk the talk\\" of the ideals of secondary school athletics (and seemingly even worse, intercollegiate athletics), yet, we frequently fail to \\"walk the walk\\" to make sure that sports are complementary to the educational process and not of primary importance \\"in and of themselves\\" in an individual high school, college or community as a whole. We can look anywhere in this country -- certainly not just in New Jersey where this tragedy takes place and we can observe a twisted and sometimes seemingly pathologically sub-conscious agenda in the support of athletics. Sadly, I have witnessed this most often in the parents of athletes. At the end of this book, I couldn't help but feeling angry and sad about the whole story -- for the victim especially but also for the \\"star\\" rapists who had been misguided and used by their parents and their community. Probably more disgusting than the crime itself is the manner in which many members of this New Jersey community tried to minimize what occurred by trying to avoid facing the truth about the dangers we create in the idolization of \\"high school jocks\\". While so many efforts have been made to improve athletics in the context of academics, there are still some sports that I believe tend to ultimately endanger the physical and emotional well being of kids because of some need their schools and towns have for winning teams and high school \\"heroes.\\" Typical American communities seem to have a tremendous need for winning teams -- most often in Football, increasingly Hockey and of course, Basketball. I mention these three because in my observation, they are often the sports that seem to bring out some of the worst traits in young people. In order of objectified and sanctioned \\"violence,\\" I have to indict the first two, football and hockey, as among the worst. They are among the most financially costly for schools to offer and beyond the violence, seem to demand the largest slice of the athletic department's funding. From equipment, to stadiums and rinks, they also have the highest liability insurance rates -- because more kids get physically hurt participating in these two sports than in any other sports that schools can offer. These \\"costs\\" don't even measure the potential for \\"emotional damage\\" that lots of former athletes suffer after their \\"stardom\\" ends. Yes, I understand the ideals of team play, of self-discipline and all of the supposed positives of these two sports, I just don't buy it! I have observed first hand too much sanctioned violence on the field and in the stands to believe these sports stands the test of their supposed value. Most sadly, parents are often those screaming loudest for blood -- encouraging their sons and now their daughters to \\"hurt\\" the opposition. Supposedly there is no \\"checking\\" allowed in women's hockey. Watch a game; they'll take the two-minute penalty over the regulation! The more violence, the more excited the fans seem to grow -- Is this something we want to encourage in the young men and women of our society? Some parents seem to be living out their own unmet dreams for themselves now somehow attainable only through their kids' victories. And to what end? The winners get to be \\"untouchable stars\\" that basically can do no wrong. That's the case I believe Lefkowitz makes most clearly in this outrageous documentary of violence permitted because of adolescent celebrity. Yes, the perpetrator finally received some consequences but in my estimation, far too little was done, far too late! And, I wonder whether anything has changed in that town? This book is a tremendous companion to one that Buzz Bissinger wrote called \\"Friday Night Lights\\", about a town in Odessa, Texas where the entire community comes out for Football like zealots. While nothing as tragic takes place in ... Lights, as in \\"Our Guys\\", what is really clear in both books is how much we cheat kids by making them believe in themselves as \\"heroes\\" at 16, 17 and 18 years of age -- only for them yet to realize that there's lots left to learn about life and at the end of high school, the star fades when they have outlived their \\"usefulness\\" and they're just an ordinary Joe or Jane who can't figure out what happened. Too often some of these \\"stars\\" never get over it and have lots of trouble comprehending how to move on in life in a positive manner. Lefkowitz has presented an outstanding work which documents a serious issue every parent, community member and educator needs to think a lot about. Without some lessons taken from Bernard Lefkowitz' tragic story, our society will certainly continue to fail our kids in helping them to develop a healthy, realistic and balanced sense of themselves and their place and tremendous potential for the greater good of our world. Let's not lose kids in early or late adolescence to the despair many now seem to experience when they realize the sun has set on their \\"stardom\\"!      Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2003-11-12
US	51631879	R1PNL01RFZVSZH	1585422444	805854365	Brief Intervals of Horrible Sanity: One Season in a Progressive School	Books	5	13	28	N	N	Teaching: Amateurs Need Not Apply!	While waiting for her \\"big break\\" into the literary world as a poet, author Elizabeth Gold took a position as a high school teacher in one of New York City's Magnet High Schools. Brief Intervals of Horrible Sanity is a journal of Ms. Gold's experience as an urban schoolteacher and some of her own personal reflections on the experience.    Sadly, this is not a happy story of children eager to learn, or of a woman particularly prepared to teach, or one who was especially passionate about young people's education.    Elizabeth Gold is a talented prose writer and she tells her story of her experience attempting to be a teacher at New York City's School of the New Millennium with skill and a good deal of humor.     It's here my compliments to Ms. Gold have to stop. Though I admit that the author provided some comic relief throughout this sad tale, most of it was at the object of the kids at this school and I guess that's where I draw the line in being too willing to find Brief Intervals much more than tragic and pathetic.    Elizabeth Gold should be the poster girl for the failure of the grand experiment New York City and a number other areas have lately entertained that too easily dismisses the importance of teacher education and proceeds to license individuals who have a college degree and a clean criminal background check, to serve as teachers.    Elizabeth Gold took advantage of an opportunity that was available to her when she needed a job. It wasn't her fault that she was hired. By the alternate standards being utilized, she was met the requirements.     Urban high schools are challenging places. New York City's schools are among the toughest. New York has more than an acceptable number of failures and that needs to change!    Yet, let's give credit where credit is due! New York City also has many successful schools; places where kids feel safe; where they are held to high expectations of academic achievement; where appropriate behavior and pride in scholastic pursuit is evident throughout the hallways and in the classrooms. And, when one finds those schools - not always in the best neighborhoods; in fact, often enough in very challenged areas just like Jackson Heights in Queens  -- one will find committed, well trained teachers who not only have completed a course of academic study, but who also have been formally trained to be teachers. In those same schools you find teachers who are passionate about their own love of learning; who like kids and believe in their potential; who are serious about what they do and, who believe that today's kids can be tomorrow's solid citizens and leaders. That's where success is found! It's in the training and it's in the commitment to kids and it's in the belief in the ability of kids to succeed and in the hard work of that will assure that success happens.     Ask any successful person who had some of the greatest influence on their lives. Often enough they will tell you the story of a teacher who believed in them and made them work hard so that they could believe in themselves.     In contrast, Elizabeth Gold takes took on many negative views of her charge right from the start. By the midpoint of the book (and she only lasts four months), she sounds like one of the most burned out and worst examples of teachers who gave up years ago and still come to school everyday just for the paycheck and the retirement benefits; kids be damned.     Guess, what? Kids know who cares. Kids will respond in environments where they are treated respectfully and where a seriousness of purpose is made clear to them. Kids want and appreciate good discipline. And, they want to experience personal success!    One of the most telling and maddening moments in this book for me was when the failed teacher - author, mockingly comments about the fact that no one should build up any false hope in the kids and that they should be told they have no futures and will be failures. Ms. Gold clearly will not be on the list of any of her former students' most influential life forces for sure!    Thank God, Elizabeth Gold is not the norm in the teaching profession. While in the first line in her Chapter entitled Apologia, Gold states: \\"Look, I did try. To love the children. I mean.\\" My response would be this: Sorry Elizabeth, you didn't try or care enough! You didn't work hard enough and you didn't believe in those kids. You weren't honest enough to admit your own fear and failure and to recognize the gravity of cheating those kids of four months of the opportunity for an education. If you did, you would have either succeeded or realized that you needed to resign. And while you eventually resigned, from my view, you stayed in that school masquerading to those kids as their teacher months beyond what was appropriate or humanly decent!    While Gold makes a few further attempts at self-redemption in her Afterword, I still have to conclude it's Not Enough and it's far too late. Gold got a book contract. What did her former students get?    High Recommended. This should be required reading for legislators, urban leaders, school leaders and anyone else who believes it is ok to withhold appropriate salaries that will attract and keep highly qualified teachers, or that teaching is an easy job with a great schedule. Perhaps Elizabeth Gold's story will convince them otherwise. Or, maybe they would consider giving her a special license to do their next medical surgery instead of continuing to believe that untrained teachers will breathe life into a system already marked by far too much failure.       Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2003-10-31
US	51631879	R2IWSPJ3Q66Z9Z	0374208824	738933916	Not Much Just Chillin': The Hidden Lives of Middle Schoolers	Books	5	11	12	N	N	An Understudied Group: An Interesting Approach	Middle school kids often receive far too little attention by way of study and research. Perhaps some believe that middle school kids are not worth studying separately from adolescence since it is such a brief period of time. Yet, at the same time, there is probably no age group that goes through such a significant and dramatic set of developmental changes in a few short years than middle schoolers.    I applaud Linda Perlstein's efforts to capture the essence of middle school kids and to represent the trials and tribulations of this age. In her study, Perlstein spent a year's time becoming a part of a real middle school. Rather than study these kids from an academic perspective, Perlstein took a much more holistic and anthropological approach. She talked to the kids, she watched the kids, she spoke to their parents, and she observed their relational interactions and their highs and lows and she spent a lot of time with their teachers.    The result of Linda Perlstein's efforts is a significant book for educators, parents and kids on the struggles of middle school years. While some might attack this as a study less scientific or quantitative than rigorous academics might prefer, I believe that she is right on the mark in reporting on these kids through her experience of them. This is a tough age and my belief is that it grows even more stressful on kids as our society continues to change and as kids mature faster on a physical level.    I believe this is a book that should be read by a number of different groups and that it could be a foundation for some wonderful discussions among teachers and between teachers and parents.     An understudied subject most interestingly presented. High Recommended.      James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2003-10-21
US	51631879	R3B92LEGWK35G4	0374208824	738933916	Not Much Just Chillin': The Hidden Lives of Middle Schoolers	Books	5	28	29	N	N	An Understudied Group: An Interesting Approach	Middle school kids often receive far too little attention by way of study and research. Perhaps some believe that middle school kids are not worth studying separately from adolescence since it is such a brief period of time. Yet, at the same time, there is probably no age group that goes through such a significant and dramatic set of developmental changes in a few short years than middle schoolers.    I applaud Linda Perlstein's efforts to capture the essence of middle school kids and to represent the trials and tribulations of this age. In her study, Perlstein spent a year's time becoming a part of a real middle school. Rather than study these kids from an academic perspective, Perlstein took a much more holistic and anthropological approach. She talked to the kids, she watched the kids, she spoke to their parents, and she observed their relational interactions and their highs and lows and she spent a lot of time with their teachers.    The result of Linda Perlstein's efforts is a significant book for educators, parents and kids on the struggles of middle school years. While some might attack this as a study less scientific or quantitative than rigorous academics might prefer, I believe that she is right on the mark in reporting on these kids through her experience of them. This is a tough age and my belief is that it grows even more stressful on kids as our society continues to change and as kids mature faster on a physical level.    I believe this is a book that should be read by a number of different groups and that it could be a foundation for some wonderful discussions among teachers and between teachers and parents.     An understudied subject most interestingly presented. Highly Recommended.      Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2003-10-21
US	51631879	R2IWUCAZFXMCIF	0446530891	382868174	Split Second (King & Maxwell)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An Edge of Your Seat Thriller	I bought this book on a Friday night and became so captivated by the story that I ended up devoting every spare second of my weekend to it. By Sunday night, it was history and I hadn't had very much sleep in between the things I had to do over the weekend and the one thing that I found myself unexpectedly wanting to do - which was to get back to Split Second to find out what would come next.    Split Seconds starts out by describing two seemingly unrelated security breaches for protectees of the U.S. Secret Service. The incidents are set eight years apart and on the surface, the only common ground that they seem to share is the fact that both involved the Secret Service and in each case, an agent was individually blamed for what went wrong. Yet, there is so much more to Split Second. There is a highly complex connection between the two events and that is the suspense and delight of the story.    David Baldacci has woven a wonderful plot through Spilt Second that kept me on the edge of my seat. It is well written and very well paced. Despite the complexity of the story, Baldacci's writing style and clear explanations made it an easy and enjoyable read.    In Secret Service agents, Sean King and Michelle Maxwell, Baldacci has cast two extremely well developed characters. These are two that I would like to see continued in a subsequent story.    Kudos for Baldacci's latest! An exciting ride of suspenseful moments that kept me glued to the book from start to finish.    Highly recommended!    Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2003-10-21
US	51631879	R1UV79U0B7512D	0375507523	644345297	Bushwhacked: Life in George W. Bush's America	Books	5	134	143	N	N	Funny For A Few Seconds Til You Remember Its True!	Molly Ivins is a very funny woman. She has clearly made many enemies with her outspokenness. And with Bushwhacked, Ivins outdoes herself with her comedic approach. There are some laugh out loud lines that are just entirely brilliant in Bushwhacked.    At the very same time, Iver's humor is focused on a very real situation: the current administration of our country. To that extent, Bushwhacked is a serious examination of some very compelling political and constitutional issues.    While Bushwhacked can easily be attacked as left wing pabulum by the conservative readers who believe they are benefiting by the approach of the current administration, the issues it deals with are all too real and all too well corroborated in the media and in observations made by average people throughout our nation.    I know that humor is supposed to cushion the hard and often cruel truth. And for a while, the humor in Bushwhacked works very well. Yet, at the end of this book, I just came away sad and somewhat anxious about the state of our nation.    Vitally important issues, cleverly presented. Yet, as a reader, my concluding emotions on the issues addressed in the book were ones of genuine discomfort and a sense of powerlessness that I all too often hear echoed in the voices of many American as they discuss their views of how the country stands politically at this juncture in history.     A recommended read. Some serious issues for all Americans to consider with an open and nonpartisan mind!      Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2003-10-21
US	51631879	R21FTZRDOMI4RY	0765303337	553414308	The Bishop Goes to the University: A Bishop Blackie Ryan Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Ecumenical Secret Cardinal Archbishops! Oh My!	In Bishop Goes to the University, noted author, scholar and Catholic priest, Andrew Greeley returns to one of my favorite characters in all of his fiction writings, Bishop Blackie Ryan, priest-detective. This is the tenth Blackie Ryan mystery.    Bishop John Blackwood Ryan, or 'Blackie' as he prefers to be called is an Auxiliary Bishop of the Archdiocese of Chicago (fictional of course for they don't make them quite as human as he is) who is noted for his crime solving abilities.  In the Bishop Goes to the University, Blackie is ordered by his boss, The Cardinal Archbishop Sean Cronin, to --  \\"see to it\\" -- meaning Blackie has been charged with straightening out the goings on at the local seminary university where a Russian Orthodox Bishop is thought to have been murdered in his office.    Layering more complexity upon the already confounding, Greeley presents a wonderful puzzler of a story here. First off, the Orthodox Bishop is murdered in a locked room where no one would have been able to \\"get in or out\\" in order to commit the homicide. And, that's the easy part for Blackie!    The more challenging aspects of the story have to do with exactly who the Orthodox Bishop was. It seems that there is a chance that this was no ordinary Orthodox Bishop, but may in fact be a secret Cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church; one elevated 'in petto'. If such is the case, Bishop Ryan and his boss have even greater interest in attending to the swift conclusion of the matter.    Blackie Ryan is a delightfully off kilter character of a Bishop who while considered a great scholar and administrator is not a \\"front line kind of guy.\\" Instead, Blackie is known for his remarkable way of appearing oblivious to the world around him and in making himself seemingly invisible by blending into the woodwork so as to seem all but absent from any gathering. Appearances aside, Blackie's dithering persona is only a clever cover for his keen powers of observation and remarkable intuition.    BishopGoes to the University is just a good yarn on the surface. Yet, more than developing a simple story line, Greeley continues to delight this reader with Blackie's approach to the world. There is comedy well blended into the suspense as Blackie approaches his cases. He is at once a character, a comedian and a genius in approach to the world and humanity. This a wonderfully believable story that one can get lost in. A page-turner and somewhere early on, one can't help but to start to giggle with and root for Blackie Ryan!    As with most of Greeley's stories, there is a bit of a love story intertwined in Bishop Goes to the University. And while some may dispute the holy or spiritual in Greeley's love stories, I do believe he is on to something. Every description of love Greeley has written of in his novels speaks of the most ideal and pure love of two hearts joining as one. And, if there is any dispute as to the sacramental nature of such a perfect union among imperfect human beings, Greeley's writings may sway a reader's cynicism.    Beyond being a plain good storyteller, Greeley offers the advantage as a writer of Church-related mysteries by having served as a priest (and often enough outcast one at that) in the Archdiocese of Chicago for most of his adult life. His home Archdiocese is home to Sean Cronin, Cardinal Archbishop and his trusty sidekick, Blackie Ryan.     I was most heartened to see a review by Cardinal Francis George of Chicago on the cover of this book praising Greeley's writing. Andrew Greeley has been ignored and treated as a leper for too long in his home Archdiocese because of his outspoken courageousness as a priest, sociologist and fiction writer. While Greeley has done a tremendous service to Chicago's Roman Catholic Church in his writings, for too long he has received nary a mention by the officials there. That Cardinal George is in print in support of Greeley's work is a major step forward for the Diocese; a little late in the game, but nonetheless, long overdue.    A wonderful and fun read! Highly recommended.    Daniel  J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2003-10-11
US	51631879	R2FU1D0UYBTEE4	0972190007	781598319	A Disgrace to the Profession	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Sad How Bad Schools Can Get	In \\"A Disgrace to the Profession\\", Charles Newton and Gretchen Kauffman provide the reader with an insider's view of a public school in DeMoines, Iowa across the period of one school year.    The book is at times \\"laugh-out-loud\\" funny. The all too real and much hated principal (the one point of consensus that the faculty seem to share) is so relentlessly power hungry, authoritarian and ego-driven that he seems to be a sitcom character. The saddest part of this tale is that it is based on an actual school and thus, is a truly tragic story.    It is a sad fact in education -- and in most organizations -- for that matter, that where there is bad leadership, those below become demoralized and they fail to do their best work. In \\"A Disgrace to the Profession\\", the authors provide a vivid and wholly believable story of a school where a faculty collectively feels offended, diminished and unappreciated by a principal who seems to be untouchable as a result of his political connections.    While there is humor in this story, and a great deal of humanness, the saddest part of the story as I came to its end was the realization that when teacher morale is poor, the education of kids suffers. There is no way that angry, disgusted teachers can give kids their very best efforts when they dread walking into school from the first day of the year forward.    There is no excuse for administrative totalitarianism of the kind exhibited in this book. Teachers need to be heard by board members, parents and others who have authentic voice in the governance of schools.    While I sympathize with the teachers, in \\"A Disgrace to the Profession\\", I do feel that they failed to recognize their own power and responsibility to change how they felt about their work. In allowing one man to so totally infect the school spirit that it became crippling, they gave up and behaved as victims. When a group of determined and intelligent people come together and decide that they will rise above the negativity that they feel about any individual administrative leader, they truly empower themselves. I felt somewhat let down by the teachers in this school in that they failed to adjust their own attitudes toward one of positive collective empowerment in the best interest of kids.    This is a book that should receive some wider attention and can serve as a wonderful starting point for discussion among anyone interested in education on what contributes to or inhibits the development of excellent schools. So too, \\"A Disgrace to the Profession\\" should be used as a case study for school leaders (and those so aspiring) to read carefully. \\"A Disgrace to the Profession\\" is one very alarming example of most things that leaders can do to fail miserably.    If we want to make sure that we do foster excellent environments in which children can learn, we need to prevent the kind of tragic chemistry that occurred in this school -- and in many schools across the country. Excellent schools need excellent teachers and excellent leaders.     There is no more important point to remind both groups than the fact that \\"It's About the Kids\\". Let's make sure that's where our energy and efforts are directed -- toward the kids and not toward petty power trips and infighting.    A worthy read. A sad story. An intolerable situation!    Highly recommended.      James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2003-10-09
US	51631879	R3GB9BMS87MYE5	0786869186	98507536	A Patriot's Handbook: Songs, Poems, Stories, and Speeches Celebrating the Land We Love	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Great Reference Book for Every American Home!	Caroline Kennedy has done an outstanding job in editing A Patriot's Handbook. It is a truly wonderful book that I believe should be kept in every American household.    As we learn our American History we are exposed to many poems, songs and historical documents that have been truly significant in the course of our country's growth and development. Yet, if we were asked to cite them quickly, some of us would be hard pressed to do so. In A Patriot's Handbook, Kennedy provides us with a refresher course in our country's history through the words of original foundational documents.     A Patriot's Handbook includes pieces such as the Star Spangled Banner, The Pledge of Allegiance, The U.S. Constitution and the Declaration of Independence. Yet, far beyond this, it provides a broad range of presidential inaugural addresses and the farewell addresses of yet others. It includes significant precedent setting legal cases, the personal writings of a number of prominent American citizens throughout our history, and a number of treasured drawings, photographs and poems. The book represents the history of America's founding and its growth over more than two and a quarter centuries.     I appreciate Kennedy's inclusion of the writings of a wide variety of people - from historians, to famous novelists, to contemporary songwriters, poets and photographers. Each inclusion shares in adequately conveying the complex and wonderful tapestry that are our nation's people.    In her Introduction, Caroline Kennedy speaks about developing this project after thinking about stories of America that she wanted her own children to know. From that perspective she has gathered a wonderful collection that I believe can be appreciated and savored by all Americans.     A rich resource and a wonderful way to learn more about our own country's rich history.    Highly recommended.    Daniel  J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2003-10-06
US	51631879	R530GYT9ZG8IN	0786868430	845523220	Madam Secretary: A Memoir	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A Fomidable Yet Funny Giant Tells Her Story	Madam Secretary is a wonderful autobiography of former Secretary of State, Madeline Albright.    I found the book to be well written, informative and human. Albright has always impressed me as a straight shooter. The book puts her life on the table for inspection and she doesn't disappoint.    Albright opens her life to the reader in discussing so many personal areas of her life: from her marriage to journalist Joseph Albright; to her surprise at its ending twenty-three years later. She is candid about losing a baby at birth, and of her identity as Mom to three girls. She discusses the struggles of balancing marriage, motherhood, advanced graduate education and a career.     Madeline Albright's candor, humanness and sense of humor are most refreshing and I came away with the sense that she is a rather delightful down to earth lady who would be comfortable and honest in a conversation with most anyone she might meet. While she has pursued great heights across her lifetime, this lady seems to have her feet fairly well planted on earth. A wonderful signpost for me throughout the book of Albright's depth were the incidents where she is able to laugh at herself and make light of her goofs and missteps along the way.    Albright is an intelligent academic and diplomat who has served as a role model for women, as hope for foreign nationals and as a formidable protectress of our nation's interests.     As a naturalized citizen who grew up during Nazi occupation of her homeland, Albright shows her appreciation of our nation through the very human eyes and heart of someone who knows what life is like in the absence of freedom. Albright's subsequent devotion to foundational principles of freedom and democracy of the United States reflect her genuine appreciation for her citizenship and a mindfulness of her own family history.    Beyond the personal aspects of her life, this is the story of an extremely brilliant American woman who dealt with a wide range of world leaders -- from the most admirable to the horribly reprehensible -- as one of the most visible official representatives of the United States during the Clinton administration.     Clearly, the manner in which she conducted herself as Ambassador to the United Nations and later as Secretary of State points Albright out as a great American who has been consistent and courageous in her service to our country's foreign policy.    A great lady candidly tells her story in an honest and classy way.     Excellent read!    James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2003-10-06
US	51631879	R2YM0H40JE9KQF	0385336195	912945855	The Best Revenge	Books	5	15	17	N	N	DNA, Death Row, A Midlife Crisis and Multiple Sclerosis	Stephen White continues to do a great job of offering his readers a well developed series of mysteries featuring continuing character, psychologist Alan Gregory.     In Best Revenge, a young FBI agent reviewing DNA studies discovers that a death row inmate's DNA is not a match to the weapon used at the crime scene. She sets about a chain of events with her discovery that ultimately frees the inmate from prison.    The FBI agent, Kelda James and the former inmate become friends  with each other as the story proceeds. They are also each -- unknown to each other -- patients of Dr. Alan Gregory.    Kelda suffers from some psychosomatic disorder that places her in tremendous pain and she seeks Alan's assistance to understand what is nearly paralyzing her legs. Tom seeks Gregory's assistance in returning to life outside prison walls.     Without giving away the rest of the plot, White has set the stage for an interesting psychological mystery that continues to escalate as someone starts to try to hurt Tom Glone after his release. Kelda, Alan and detective Sam Purdy, another continuing character in White's stories, work on putting all the pieces together to bring about a somewhat surprising conclusion.     Fine character development. Excellent use of ethical dilemnas that are not covered by the APA Code of Ethics are presented by White throughout the story.     In addition, Alan struggles to balance the challenges of helping out his wife when her Multiple Sclerosis is at critical points. Further, with a new baby in the house, Alan has his hands and his life full adapting to fatherhood. Finally, Gregory himself struggles with a midlife crisis and where his psychology practice fits into his personal fulfilment at this point. A good set of real life and pretty unglamorous issues add a nice sense of realism to the story..    Kudos for White's latest addition to the Dr, Alan Gregory series. This one is a keeper!    Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2003-02-25
US	51631879	R2GGFYOMJDM7NA	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	4	0	0	N	N	How Much Do We Expect from One Author?	As a legal story, I found King of Torts to be a fairly interesting read. I am not an attorney and have never been involved in a class action suit, so this latest addition to the Grisham legal series was pretty enjoyable for me.     If this book is truly reflective of the class action law, I have to say that I was most struck by how minimal the level of genuine concern seems for the interests of the client on the part of many attorneys. After reading King of Torts, my conclusion would be, perhaps wrongly,, that attorneys serve their own interests for noteriety and financial gain far before they demonstrate authentic concern for the wrongs that have been done to their clients. And, if that's the case, there is surely something wrong with our legal system.    I have read all of John's Grisham's books and liked them. They are usually a quick read and a good diversion. However, I have never thought they were brilliant, or great literature. Sometimes I think we are subjected to too much marketing hype about an author's next book and that often negatively colors our ultimate reaction to the actual book when it is finally published. John Grisham seems to be an author who is held to high -- if not impossible -- standards and expectations.    They are decent stories, popular with many, but there seems to be quite a bit of over-expectation on how good we seem to want every one of Grisham's book, and then we hear about folks being disappointed by the book. Let's face it, some writer's stories are truly excellent, other stories are merely passable, and even good writers somethings turn out material that just isn't their best effort. And with John Grisham's works, we have been exposed to the good, the fair and the poor.     Overall, I found King of Torts to be an engaging story with good characters and a writing style that allowed me to follow a legal speciality I am unfamiliar with pretty easily. Maybe I am one of the few, but I liked it!      James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2003-02-23
US	51631879	R2C7NG1CC3RW4E	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	5	57	70	N	N	A Beautifully Strange and Lyrical Story	Without the publicity that Bel Canto received as a result of its recognition through the Pen/Faulkner Award I would have passed this book by in a hearbeat.    The brief description on the back of the book didn't seem to indicate that it was the type of story I had any interest in reading.    Yet, after hearing about its recognition, I picked it up again and took a look. I started reading the first few pages in a bookstore and before I knew it, I was hooked. Ann Patchett's writing is simple, elegant and almost lyrical. It quickly becomes somewhat hypnotic.    While the story is one set in a South American embassy that has been taken hostage, it is much more a tale about how we build relationships with others by stopping all of our frenetic activity and paying attention to one another as human beings.     In Bel Canto, some odd and beautiful relationships develop between the hostages themselves, and in some cases, between the hostages and their captors.    Ultimately, Bel Canto reminds me that I need to slow down and hold myself hostage to more moments in my own life. As busy as I may become, there is no going back in time to simply pay attention to the people I have passed by and not given much thought to.     I think Bel Canto is a wonderful story; a good lesson on the value of simple human encounter and the spiritual rewards that we find in paying attention to the people we travel the earth with every day.    A really fine read. A deserving prizewinner!      James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2003-02-07
US	51631879	R3FJAWJFNAT51B	0060505850	406719494	Another Planet: A Year in the Life of a Suburban High School	Books	5	1	4	N	N	A Compelling Look at Contemporary High School	Writer, Elinor Burkett, has done a remarkable job of documenting a year in the life of a fairly typical American High School. Her interested in what was going on in high schools today was triggered by the Columbine massacre. She sought to observe a school year from the front lines. Burkett researched schools that would be quite close to Columbine in student composition, socio-economic status, enrollment, and a number of other factors.     Prior Lake High School officials in Minnesota bravely accepted Burkett's proposal that she be given complete access to students, faculty and administrators at the school for a full school year. Bravely, Burkett returned to high school after a number of years had passed since she herself had graduated.    Another Planet is a remarkable written history of Burkett's keen observations. She observes and participates (and records) the official events of the year, as well as the \\"unofficial\\". An amazing chronicle of what it's like to be a kid in an American high school in this new millennium.    While I was somewhat uncomfortable with some of the things Burkett had to report as having happened, as a teacher, I come away from this reading believing that good education does go on at Prior Lake High School and at most high schools in America. At the same time, I am reminded how incredibly complex the adolescent journey is. While the traditions may change, and the latest fashion looks different from age to age over history, the challenges, struggles, and hurdles of adolescence indeed seem to be a universal maze; one which is fraught with misdirection, raging hormones, moments of true learning and ultimately, for many -- if not most kids -- hope and triumph on the march into adulthood.    I am not alarmed by Burkett's book. Ultimately, I believe it is a testament to the teaching profession and an excellent documentary on the painfulness of adolescence for just about every kid in America. Kudos to the leadership at Prior Lake High School who had the courage to allow a reporter to see the school year warts and all! They have done an enormous service to better understanding of the challenges of educators, kids, parents and leaders throughout the country.    This book should be required reading by legislators, school board members, parents, teachers and kids. It is a wonderful forum for an enlarged understanding of today's educational challenges, comedies and sadnesses.    Outstanding!    James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2002-11-30
US	51631879	R3EWGEY3419UAO	0525946756	557461421	Skipping Towards Gomorrah: The Seven Deadly Sins and the Pursuit of Happiness in America	Books	5	64	75	N	N	Refocusing Our Sights On the Bill of RIghts	In Skipping `Toward Gomorrah, nationally syndicated sex advice columnist, Dan Savage brings us an intelligent and reasoned voice of counterbalance to the many current (and extremely conservative) voices that cry out for Americans to \\"change their wicked ways and return to 'right living.'\\"    In Skipping, Savage takes the creative route of investigating the Seven Deadly Sins as a lens through which to examine the U.S. Bill of Rights. His \\"sinning\\" is far from the real thing in my estimation and his experiences provide for some of the most entertaining illustrations of his points.    Savage does an outstanding job of serving as a voice of counterbalance to the doomsayers among a rather large current crop of \\"conservatives\\" who tell us that society is going to \\"hell in a handbasket\\", and who set out to limit the rights of others and to define acceptable behavior for all \\"good\\" people. While anyone can invite others to a point of view, these neo-conservatives walk all over the Bill of Rights and insist that \\"good and right living\\" is defined on their terms and within their definitions of right and good and acceptable, and should be mandatory for all Americans. Those extremes I can live without!    While often hysterically funny in the reading, the content of Skippingh Toward Gomorrah is, at its very heart, a soberingly serious discussion of the intentions of our founding fathers of our country. Savage brings a refreshingly honest voice to countering fundamentalists who -- n the name of morality, decency and all that is supposedly American, feel free to trample all over the Bill of Rights.     Savage accurately argues the dangers of any kind of extremism. At its worst, it is a cancer fermenting within individuals and groups that seems to allow them to presume the right to act in reckless ways in the effort to \\"control others\\" beliefs and behavior for the \\"good of all American people\\".    The most frightening realization that Savage very plainly articulates is the fact that Americans too easily allow extreme positions to go unchallenged. In a democratic nation where we have voice and vote, we are far too often docile, polite or silent (or absent from the polls) in facing down messages that challenge the foundations of our democracy. We fail to challenge those who tell us how to live, or to defend the foundational principles of our Constitution.    From Jimmy Swaggert to Dr. Laura Slessinger to William Bennett, to Patrick Buchanan, to Robert Bork, we are inundated with non-negotiable voices for \\"right moral living\\". Savage, quite accurately, lets us know that when any individual, or group, tells us that theirs is the \\"only correct view,\\" they become dangerous.    Skipping Toward Gomorrah is a book to be taken seriously. Dan Savage provides us with a thought provoking and insightful books that ask us to question how easily we allow ourselves to be taken in by those who want to run our lives. He urges our greater personal decision-making and participation in the dialogue of the nation. He smartly cautions us on the importance of being unselective on the voices we are willing to listen to in contemporary politics, religion and in the media.    Highly recommended. Savage is an excellent contemporary voice of reason!      Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2002-11-06
US	51631879	R3DWYOQTV7UPRC	0865304572	570937779	If You Don't Feed the Teachers They Eat the Students!: Guide to Success for Administrators and Teachers (Kids' Stuff)	Books	5	77	82	N	N	One of the Most Important Elements of Leadership in Schools	There are many things Educational Leaders are unable to do because Education is so commonly plagued by inadequate funding. However, one thing that too many educational leaders can do, and too often fail to do, is to affirm their teachers. Affirmation and recognition don't require more money. With an ongoing mindfulness of \\"taking care of, and honoring teachers\\" a school leader can do tremendous things for morale and ultimately for student success.    Studies of the reasons school leaders lose their jobs often point out that there are too many of them who are not present to their teachers,, who fail to include them in decision-making, who don't know even know their teachers names, and who far too often, treat their teachers as insignificant.     While there is a lot of paperwork and other distractions n educational administration, the highest priority of a leader has to be the students and the teachers who work directly with those students! Teachers, by and large, are highly devoted individuals with a special calling in life. Yet, teachers are human too. They have the need to be respected, listened to, acknowledged and celebrated. This is where too many school leaders fall short.    In, If You Don't Feed the Teachers, They Will Eat the Students, author Neila A. Connors, points out some simple and valuable ideas for letting teachers know that they are valued and appreciated. Humorous in tone, Connors illustrates a very clear plan for continuously addressing the affirmation of teachers.     While educational leaders must continue to advance the salaries, working conditions and status of teachers in this country, they also need to pay more attention to the basic human needs of these vitally important people who most directly serve the kids -- the only reason school administrators have a job in the first place.    Basic?  Yes. Usual? No! Read  -- If You Don't Feed the Teachers, They Will Eat the Students. High marks for Neila Connors!    James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2002-11-04
US	51631879	R288D5SYTJT9UA	0399149155	249229548	Q is for Quarry: A Kinsey Millhone Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Kinsey at Her Best	I always look forward to a new Sue Grafton mystery around this time of year. Q is for Quarry does not disappoint.    Grafton has constructed her story loosely around a true story of a woman who was murdered and left unidentified for the last 30 odd years. She thoroughly researched the unsolved murder which she eventually evolved into Q is for Quarry. While the foundation is real, Grafton turns the case over to Kinsey at her fictional best.    In Quarry, Kinsey Milhone (the barely aging private eye who works out of Santa Teresa, California) is teamed with two rather sick and elderly cops who were at the scene of a murder many years earlier. As their own careers come to an end, they would like to \\"close the case\\" on the unidentified woman from the early years of their career, and, they ask Kinsey for help.    The story is a delight. The two cops who ask for Kinsey's help are like The Odd Couple with poor health. One suffers from a heart attack during the investigation and the other is waiting to die (only to be told his cancer is in remission). They are serious detectives but classically funny characters. Kinsey, always at her best, deals the deck she is given to play and works with these guys like one of their old buddies.    The story is unpredictable, yet ultimately logical. Unlike its real life counterpart, Kinsey closes the case. (Sadly, the real woman on whom the story was based, continues to be an unknown victim.)    I enjoy Sue Grafton's novels because of the wonderful character she has realized in her loving creation of Kinsey Milhone. Kinsey has become a comfortable friend over the years. As a reader, I feel as if she is real (quick reality check disclaimer -- I know she is not!) I know her family story, her quirks, her favorite food and her eccentricities. While not the most contemporary cop with all the latest high tech toys and tricks, Kinsey is an enjoyable and tough sleuth. I am always in the rooting box giving her encouragement to take the next step. Grafton makes sure she does.    Highly recommended. If you have never read any of Sue Grafton's novels, this is as good a place to start as any. Once hooked, you can go back and enjoy 17 earlier stories that revolve around Kinsey Milhone. Go for it!    James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2002-10-23
US	51631879	R1OR8JT6XNUI2Z	0809105527	74560130	Father Mychal Judge: An Authentic American Hero	Books	5	35	39	N	N	A Powerful Story of A Wounded Healer	In looking through the over some forty different books on a display in a local bookstore memorializing the Heroes of September 11th, I was struck by the fact that each human story is, in and of itself, precious and so worthy of being passed on. All who lost their lives on September 11th, and those who participated in the aftermath of that tragic day, in whatever role they served, brought forth their very best selves to share with others in need. There is a powerful eloquence resounding through the words and photographs that serve as reminder and memorial of these tremendous people and that terrible day.     Mychal Judge was the 68-year-old fire department chaplain who died of a heart attack while ministering to the injured and dying at the World Trade Center. There is the now famous picture of Judge being brought out of the rubble by five firemen that is incredibly powerful to view.    In a time when there is a great deal of cynicism and appropriate doubt about the leadership of the Catholic Church, Mychal Judge's life serves as the testament to the fact that there are indeed still priests who have not forgotten the true meaning of ministry, who continue to struggle to live a life that is Christ like, yet who remain all too truly human and authentic. Ironically, these men are often the same people who have the courage not to intimidated by the Church's petty hierarchical power games, rules and censures.     Judge was not a perfect person by any means. A Franciscan from his young adulthood, Mychal Judge was outspoken and unconventional. He was known to be difficult to live with in community at times. He spoke back to the reprimands of the Archdiocese of New York and went about his business of being present to others - often the poorest, dirtiest, most undesirable human beings around him. He was an acknowledged alcoholic who was devoted to Alcoholics Anonymous, to his own 23-year sobriety, and to assisting other alcoholics on a path toward recovery. He was also a gayman who acknowledged his sexual identity, while at the same time, giving authentic witness to his call to the priesthood. He was eccentric, bawdy and comical. At the same time, he was selfless when it came to being present to those in need. He never failed to rush to the most tragic or hopeless situation he was called to - whether it was to men dying of AIDS, to the lonely elderly women to whom he somehow gave laughetr and cheer, to the homeless around Penn Station in the church where he lived, or to his final ministry, to the firefighters and their families, of the New York City Fire Department.     As a result of his own very challenged life, Judge was able to be a tremendously authentic presence to other persons in pain. He embodied the idea that those wounded in life are often the best people to serve in healing roles as they can reach places in others that they themselves have been and give comfort and often peace.    Author, Michael Ford, covers Judge beautifully and I found myself marking my copy of this book with simply beautiful vignettes of Mychal Judge in action so that I can return to them again and reread them. Ford, previously published an excellent posthumous biography of priest and noted author, Henri Nouwen, entitled The Wounded Prophet, which also dealt with another remarkable human being who embodied the notion of wounded healer.     While never having met Mychal Judge, Ford has certainly done a fine job of meeting people who did know the man first hand and recording their stories of his life. He has synthesized all of this into a very well written, coherent tale of a rough and tumble New Yorker who literally gave his life to the people of New York City. A remarkable book. A fast and inspiring read. Highly recommended!      Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2002-09-04
US	51631879	R2QFS9CG6MJBQI	0312868731	336749750	The Bishop in the West Wing: A Bishop Blackie Ryan Novel	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Blackie Ryan is the Clerical Columbo	Andrew Greeley's Blackie Ryan mysteries are like my favorite candy; there's never enough! While Grreely's mysteries aren't \\"edge of the seat\\", \\"nail-biting affairs\\", the protagonist, Bishop Blackie Ryan, more than makes up for the softer sided \\"who-dun-it\\" that he is usally investigating through his own entertainly odd personality.     Blackie is drawn as a bumbling, scholarly Bishop who would appear to be \\"clueless\\" about most things going on around him. Greeley creates a countercultural Bishop in Blackie in that he is messy, wears a baseball jacket most of the time over his clerical shirt, hates a suitcoat and just gets put on end when he is expected to dress up in the full regalia of the Roman Catholic Bishop. He is an engaging and comical character that I am always expecting to be bumping into walls or falling down stairs. Yet, of course, appearances can be quite deceptive. Beneath the seeming absentmindedness, lies the eyes of a very present, keenly observant sleuth! Blackie laughs at his own schtick of appearing so utterly idiotic as to be dismissed by those around him. His style cleverly allows him to start to become \\"part of the woodwork\\". Well the woodwork always ends up with a birds eye view of what's happening in the midst of the confusion that is created as people nervously go about trying to act normal when fairly abnormal and rather strange things are afoot.    In the Bishop in the West Wing, Blackie is called to the White House to investigate the presence of a ghost of sorts. The ghost in question throws tantems by tossing around objects, pitching pictures off the wall in the Oval Office, moving furniture and just creating a kind of friendly havoc. Despite the fact that the ghost seems harmless and almost playful, Blackie is called to help the Chicago-native President restore a sense of propriety about the White House and to bring an end to \\"spirits\\" roaming free in the most important house in the world.    Blackie of course bumbles his way through the house, getting to know each of the people that he believes may know something about the ghost, ingratiating himself with the helpful staff and ultimately, finding the source of the White House hauntings.     A fun wholesome tale, exceedingly well written, led by a man one would hope to find more often in the woodwork of the Roman Catholic Church hierarchy. Like candy, there are just never enough Blackie Ryan stories. Although, for the reader new to Andrew Greeley's Bishop Blackie series, there are quite a few of these to catch up with and I'm one reader who is fairly convinced that many will develop a very faithful following for Blackie's antic adventures. Delightful read!      Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2002-08-21
US	51631879	R14R9952UTS1GF	0618094997	306036293	All We Know of Heaven	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Inside Look at Monastic Life	In a time when much of what we read about the Catholic Church is negative, Remy Rougeau, a cloistered Trappist monk, offers a delightful look at the reality of day-to-day life in a monastery. All We Know of Heaven follows the story of Paul Seneschal, a young nineteen year old, who decides that instead of going to college, he wants to become a Trappist monk. After battling his rather formidable mother about his decision, (a rich and comical character all by herself), Paul enters the monastery and we the readers are offered the chance to make the journey with him.      All We Know of Heaven is written in a comfortable timeline style that takes the reader across more than twenty years in the short period of a few hundred pages. We find ourselves with a Birdseye view of mysterious world of the monastery. We witness young Paul's own struggles to determine whether he is truly called to the challenging life of work and prayer, his decision to remain, and his own growth and maturity as he passes a number of years as a fully professed monk.     We meet men who extend a genuine hand of welcome to him as he enters, other who might have sent the weak or doubtful, running for the door because of their innocent oddities, and yet still others, who could be stand-up physical comedy entertainers. Finally, among the group and the most unexpected characters we also meet the fewer, truly holy men, who seem almost mystical.     It is through Paul's innocent eyes, that Rougeau dispels the notion that a monastery is an all too serious and possibly boring place without personality or joy. His \\"too-real-to-be fiction\\" cast of characters offers us the chance to encounter a peacefulness, the opportunity to laugh out loud and even the chance to unexpectedly shed a few tears.     Ultimately, All We Know of Heaven is a joyous human story that left this reader with a sense of peace, an admiration for those who choose the monastic life, a realization that is not a calling for me, and a reminder that we often discover saints and moments of grace and joy in the mist of the simplest and often most unexamined moments of our day to day lives. A quiet and joyful read! Highly recommended.    James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2002-08-09
US	51631879	R16P898K9B8Y01	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	2	26	56	N	N	Would Buchanan Have Allowed His Own Ancestors Into the U.S.?	I believe that we are a nation of immigrants and that it is our constitutional and historical heritage to welcome newcomers from other lands to join us in American citizenry. At the same time, I do have some concerns about the \\"new arrivals\\" to our shores. Essentially, I believe that every person who comes to the United States and requests citizenship should be clearly committed to being an American. I believe each should learn to read and write the English language. Too many foreign-born citizens, speak incomprehensible `survival English' and never seem to improve, even after years here.    At the same time, I am fearful of the immigration backlash that we see increasingly since September 11th in books like Decline of the West.  Buchanan would seem to want a bleached white assimilationist immigrant, or none at all if he really put his cards on the table. He is using the verbiage of \\"national unity\\" and \\"national security\\" as a means to peddle an exclusionary and selective agenda for who should be \\"deemed worthy\\" to become American --- \\"for the good of America you understand...\\"    There is a great deal of historical amnesia at work in the fact that Buchanan, in his quest for a unified ideologically \\"homogenous\\" America seems to forget that one has never existed before. The very foundations of our country is the ability to be different, whatever form the difference takes - as long as one exercises the responsibility concomitant to that freedom.    Buchanan selectively fails to recall first that very few of us, including himself, can trace our roots back to the Indians who are the only ones native to the land! Further, he seems to portray the United States until just recently, as a place that welcomed newcomers and treated them kindly in return for their \\"becoming\\" American. I am  certain that Buchanan's ancestors experienced the bigotry and downright hatred common to Irish immigrants when they ran into signs posted on places of employment that read \\"No Irish Need Apply\\". And the Irish spoke English!    I believe we should continue to welcome those who seek our land of opportunity. We might need to have quotas despite my fear of the potential abuses of such systems, because we only have so much room and so much opportunity. We also probably need to increase the expectations that being granted citizenship entail. We may need to send some people home when they don't prove that they have met the eligibility requirements for citizenship by learning the language, maintaining employment, keeping the laws and exercising their new freedom -- with responsibility. One is an applicant for quite a period of time before ultimately being awarded \\"citizenship.\\" Perhaps this applicant phase really needs to mean something - like you can't stay if you don't do what you are expected to.    We have some problems to address without a doubt. However that's not the same agenda as the racism and outright discrimination that people like Buchanan and others are espousing dressed up as \\"protections\\" while at their very core, they are only examples of deep hatred, and fundamentally antithetical to the principles upon which our country was founded and the history that has made it a great one.    James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2002-06-25
US	51631879	R3R9O8MEGRZF1Z	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	3	62	73	N	N	The Truth Will Set You Free. The Reader or the Writer?	Blinded by the Right is in some ways a remarkable book. In other ways, it is a frustrating tale of self-centeredness and greed -- the author's. Brock is a fine writer. He is informed and clearly intelligent. In Blinded, Brock provides a first-person account of the tactics employed by the conservative Republican extreme throughout the 1990's in their effort to \\"spread their message\\" and exert the considerable power of their money and influence.    The book is frightening in that political games are laid bare and the conservative Republicans look pretty reprehensible in the process. While there are just as many - perhaps more -- similar books on the opposite spectrum of politics, Brock's stands out because it is so strongly autobiographical and he was so much a part of the propaganda machine as a reporter for the American Spectator during the 90's. He wrote many of the stories that caught our attention in the news media. David Brock was one of the party's key delivery boys!    Even more frightening is the fact that David Brock was a soul-less chameleon who served as a political puppet for many years. While some folks are motivated to advocate positions because of deep personal conviction, David Brock was a shallow, selfish man, essentially interested in only one cause - himself. Brock essentially proved he was willing to be anything he needed to be and to go to any lengths to advance his own standing, inflate his own ego, make himself more money, and promote his own notoriety.    I can't say that I leave Blinded by the Right with much sympathy for David Brock. While Brock has obviously gone through some form of personal transformation in writing this book about his own dishonesty, he actually got quite a bit out of his personal prostitution over the years as one of the key party messenger boys. If he believes it was he that was used, I would urge another look.  Even after his \\"breakthrough\\" there still seems to be disingenuousness to Brock's desire to \\"come clean\\" andhis personal ego looms large throughout the book - even after his supposed \\"wake-up\\" call.    I'm not really very convinced that Brock has actually changed his agenda very much through all of his soul searching. So much of the undertone of Blinded by the Right seems to sound a discordant note that \\"the world somehow should revolve around David Brock\\". Sadly, he still seems to lack very much conviction or commitment to anything other than to himself.    While I enjoyed reading Brock's account of some of the zealotry that drove a wedge through American politics all through the 90's, I can't help but finish the book hoping that David Brock himself finds something to believe in that is worthy of his intelligence and giftedness. A man at middle age who doesn't have any personal conviction, regard for others, or much to believe in that is larger than oneself, quite frankly, isn't very impressive.    Daniel  J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota	2002-06-25
US	51631879	R2K4YVM4NK01M4	1576832260	777929565	Dare to Journey: with Henry Nouwen	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Fine Daily Companion	Henri Nouwen authored thirty five very inspirational books on the challenges of living life. Nouwen, a man often unsettled in his own life, offered a Jesus-centered perspective of his journey. This small book is a wonderful daily reader that draws on many of Nouwen's books. A great start to the day... or just the thing for a quick reflection along the way. Well worth the few dollars. Highly recommended.    James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota	2002-06-22
US	51631879	R3IBCFBSA3U9U2	0553801457	520251859	Witsec: Inside the Federal Witness Protection Program	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Into Obscurity -- Not So Easily Accomplished!	I found WITSEC to be fascinating from cover to cover. Gerald Shur was one of the original founders of the federal Witness Protection Program. For many years, he was the lynchpin in bringing increasing levels of organization and professionalism to a once informal \\"make it up as you go along\\" experimental program.    Now retired and finally free to give an insider's view of the program and its successes and failures, Gerald Shur offers a sometimes captivatingly honest and direct chronicle of the challenges and growing pains the program went through over the years. He is able to give an honest appraisal of the good decisions and successes the program has had, and even more admirable, he is able to state and own the program's shortcomings and outright failures.  I admire the fact that Shur has been able to step aside from this work that he lived and breathed for so many years and offer a fairly objective story of the program.    At one point in the book, a relocated witnesses' wife tells her own personal story. It is a touching and sad story of a woman who had to abandon herself without notice and chronicles the 25 years after she was first relocated. I cannot imagine, even after having read this book, how difficult it must be to leave one's entire identity behind in order to \\"become someone completely new\\" -- birth history, family, origins, family support systems, and familiar surroundings -- all in order to help save a partner's life or one's own! While some have been extremely critical of the purpose of the witness protection program over the years, this is no glamorous escape for criminals who would be otherwise incarcerated for their entire lives. During my reading, it sometimes struck me that the cost of giving up one's entire \\"life\\" in order to be protected is as stiff a price to pay as going to prison.     The Witness Protection program has been responsible for assisting in effectively paralyzing \\"organized crime\\" as we once knew in the United States. For over the last thirty years, this program, along with enforcement of the RICO statute and aggressive prosecution have very clearly limited the extent to which organized groups can impose their criminal behavior on others.    Peter Earley and Gerald Shur do an excellent job of providing an engaging and thoroughly entertaining chronicle of the first three decades of the Witness Protection Program from its start through its later development. In addition to its history, and a number of tales of harsh human drama, this is by no means a ponderous read. At points, as a reader I was simply howling in laughter at some of the characters that the program was expected to \\"protect\\". Even some of the agents had some extremely funny \\"three stooges\\" moments, as unintentional blunders became narrow escapes from harm's way.     Highly recommended    James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2002-05-21
US	51631879	R124QJ3G1J4M57	0385502028	983376004	Befriending Life: Encounters with Henri Nouwen	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Deeply Meaningful Stories of A Contemporary Mystic	Henri Nouwen made remarkable contributions to many people of all religious denominations, particularly Christians, throughout his lifetime. Priest, Scholar, Psychologist, Professor, Chaplain and Author were the professional and formal roles he held throughout his lifetime. Yet, ultimately Nouwen was a deeply human man who has come to be somewhat widely recognized as something of a contemporary mystic since his death in 1996.     Nouwen's more than thirty-two books give very human voice and practical dimension to the struggles which life presents to us all. His personal struggles to live his own life defined his writings and perhaps are what made them so uniquely effective in reaching the wide audience he managed to draw. While clearly Christian, they were writings that were offered as `an invitation to reflection and personal search' as opposed to any kind of theological mandates. As a result of his openness and his efforts toward inclusiveness, Nouwen was embraced by people of many faiths who found inspiration in his writings.     In Befriending Life, a wide variety of people who knew Henri in one capacity or another, tell their story of their encounters with him. Clearly, Henri Nouwen was a man who had a remarkable ability to reach and affirm others. Befriending Life is essentially a series of portraits of Henri Nouwen given through the writings and interviews of a wide array of people who came to know Henri personally in some capacity or other. The contributors include co-workers, former students, trapeze artists, retarded persons and even near-strangers who were somehow, often through the most unlikely series of coincidences, deeply touched through Henri's ministry.    As Nouwen was truly a geographical and vocational wanderer throughout his life, this book gives a delightfully engaging account of a deeply restless man who somehow managed to give voice to many more universal human struggles through the examination of his own.     For anyone who has enjoyed HenriNouwen's writings, Befriending Life gives the reader a much better understanding of the human being behind the words. Flawed, broken, restless, seeking.... Henri went about his life most earnestly and seriously -- attempting to make his world a better place by reaching out to other human beings, one by one.     For the newcomer to Nouwen, here is a wonderful opportunity to become intrigued by this man's life and to perhaps begin a more lasting relationship with Nouwen through this invitation to his many books.     Befriending Life is a wonderfully engaging book. It weaves together many people's personal experiences with Henri Nouwen and ultimately creates perhaps the most informative biography available on the man.    Highly recommended!    James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2002-05-21
US	51631879	R3SVW2B2ENJB0Y	0805070516	927336017	American Son: A Portrait of John F. Kennedy, Jr.	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Tribute to a Human Being	One of my earliest memories of the world outside my house as a little kid was the death of President John F. Kennedy. I am not even sure that I was able to tell anyone who the President of the United States was before November 22, 1963. Yet, I vividly remember our first family vigil in front of the television set through the weekend that followed JFK's assassination. I will always remember the little boy who saluted his father's coffin on the day of the funeral.    Naturally, along with many members of our country who recall \\"that little boy\\", I paid attention whenever there was news of him in the years that came later. He grew up in the glare of the media and held us in a sort of collective obsession, which many Americans seemed to share.    The little boy turned into an impressive and handsome young man, which only made him more attractive to our collective conscience! The media declared John Kennedy, Jr. \\"America's Prince.\\"     Personally, I can't imagine a life under the kind of inspection to which John Kennedy was exposed. Yet, the amazing thing about John Kennedy, Jr. was that despite the pressure of his family history and a life he was forced to live in the spotlight, he grew into adulthood and managed to arrive as a decent, stable, and unusually sensitive 'everyman'.     In Richard Blow's publication of his story of JFK, Jr. we are afforded a well-written opportunity to more formally and finally conclude what we always seemed to have sensed about John F. Kennedy, Jr., --   \\"America's Prince\\" was human and knew it. His was no easy life, lived thoughtlessly. While many envied JFK's looks, position and wealth, I don't know many who would do as well as he did if forced to live under such circumstances. John Kennedy, Jr. was a person, who despite the obstacles set before him as a result of his unasked for \\"fame\\" was a man who displayed class and good nature much more often than not.      While Blow has been accused of betrayal in his decision to write about JohnKennedy, Jr. in light of a privacy agreement he had signed when he worked at George, I don't know how anyone reading this book can accuse Blow of sensationalism or disloyalty.     American Son is a wonderfully spirited and intelligently written tribute. There is nothing vulgar, common or tawdry in this story of an admired, and almost familial member of the human race, who, along with his wife and sister-in-law, was lost too soon. Highly recommended!    James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2002-05-17
US	51631879	R1FD36A25DP5HP	0802733654	627894279	Burning Down the House: A Nick Hoffman Novel (Nick Hoffman Mysteries)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Delightfully Funny Satire on College Life	I can't quite support the idea that Burning Down the House a mystery or a suspense story. On that score, I need to say right off, it was a little disappointing. However, I can't get into the degree of analysis that some of the detractors of the book have gone to in their reviews.. This is entertainment! It is not intended to be one of the great canons of western literature. A few folks need to lighten up a little. When you read a mystery with a red pen, it's bound to be an unenjoyable experience!<br />Lev Raphael's Burning Down the House is an extremely well written, very funny, tale of the cast of characters to be found on a typical college campus. While the author's characters were vivid in their own right, I couldn't help myself from adding a few of my own assortment  of &quot;faces and characters&quot; to Raphael's prototypes. For me, this was a laugh out loud book throughout. Well written. Excellent use of more than fourth grade vocabulary, and a nice addition to the Nick Hoffman series. <br />My only recommendation for the next installment is that Raphael develop his ending more completely before he starts leading us there. In this one it appears as if the ending wasn't something that the author put much effort into ahead of time. <br />All in all, highly recommended -- a funny and enjoyable read. I would compare Burning Down the House to Jane Smiley's MOO and to John Hassler's two books on college/university life.All four are thoroughly delightful tales on the more humous (and sometimes frustrating) sides of higher education.	2002-05-14
US	51631879	R34J2VPDYL2TJC	0140096221	206147011	Days of Obligation: An Argument with My Mexican Father	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Coming To Terrms With Self and Heritage	Richard Rodriguez is a gifted writer. He words are almost lyrical at times and at points, Days of Obligation is simply a beautiful experience to read.     In Days of Obligation, Rodriguez struggles with so many facets of himself -- notably, his ethnic heritage, his sexuality, his sense of guilt at the chasm between who he is and who he has been told to be by parents and his church. I believe there is a universal element to Rodriguez' struggles. They are the challenges that all human beings encounter in becoming their own unique selves.     The added dimension of Rodriguez' Mexican heritage, makes this story all the more fascinating. A wonderful book to have us think about being ourselves in a world full of others expectations as well as an opportunity to get a closer view of Mexican ethnic influences and the related struggles in a United States where far too many people forget they themselves are immigrants or children of immigrants.    A highly enjoyable book from many perspectives.    James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2002-04-29
US	51631879	R309OBUKJWUAW5	0553272934	454149734	Hunger of Memory : The Education of Richard Rodriguez	Books	4	11	16	N	N	An Important Voice on Multiculturalism	While Hunger of Memory has been around for quite some time, I believe it a book of timeless importance in learning of the struggles of the 'non-white' American's coming of age. I find Rodriguez' writing to be quite inspirational. His personal journey to greater self awareness and academic achievement are among the most interesting aspects of the book.     At the same time the Hunger of Memory can be absolutely engaging, there is a strained element to the book in Rodriguez' effort to offer his personal story and at the same time to sound scholarly. While not the case throughout the book, the places where I found this occurring were rather annoying. I prefer a simpler 'personal style' over the pedantry of the stiff intellectualization we consider 'scholarly writing.' In my own estimation, 'scholarly' should be a term we reserve for those stories of life that we learn something from -- not from the degree of awkwardness with which something is written.    An excellent book overall.    James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2002-04-29
US	51631879	R3MQ1NBMSFR0H1	0670030430	837277397	Brown: The Last Discovery of America	Books	4	27	33	N	N	Brown as A Racial Category -- Not according to Rodrigez	Richard Rodrigues provides an excellent case on the creation of a somewhat mythical category of race that has come into common usage. While race is generally reserved for the major blood lines associated with the continents of the world, here in the United States we have made a complete mish-mash of our categorizations of race and ethnicity. Anyone who has recently filled out a form has likely been surveyed on the Race. We are provided with a check list. It appears to work it's way out of a very \\"white\\" (or more properly Caucasian\\" world-view.     While we represent ourselves to be a melting pot and were founded on the principles of equality and freedom, we memers of the U.S. society too often responsible for efforts to continue to divide and categorize.     Richard Rodriguez offers a clear argument on the fictive notions of \\"brown\\" and \\"latino\\" and uses his own personal life examples to illustrate his case.    I have found Rodriguez writing to be much more engaging in his past two works. While he has always had a tendency to try to sound overly erudite and this has been an onstacle to enjoying his intelligent observations and beliefs about life, I found the writing in Brown to be too often strained with the \\"intellectualizations\\" that we often associate with tedious academic texts. I encourage Richard Rodriguez to allow his writing to stand on its own without the artifice of the scholarly tone. More than in his previous works, I found this to be a major distraction to his writing. Mr. Rodriguez is a brilliant man who is well-educated and articulate. He is also a man of passion and controversy. His best writing shines through the personal stories he tells.    A very important contribution to the ongoing debates we continue to wage on cultures, race and ethnicity. Highly recommended.    James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2002-04-29
US	51631879	R3TGOQHUYDIUEG	0375503587	960148459	Electroboy: A Memoir of Mania	Books	4	27	31	N	N	Trying to Stay Aboard A Wild Horse Certainly Can't Be Easy	Electroboy: A Memoir of Madness is one man's story of his roller-coaster ride through the hell of manic-depressive illness. Fortunately, he seems to have made it to the other side intact enough to write about it. Many others never survive, even as long as Berhman has done, and succumb much earlier to the high fatality rate within this population of our mentally ill.     There is a certain irony in the frustrations expressed by many of the reviewers of Electroboy. They cite the book's disorganized and chaotic approach as its negatives. Yet, looking at this book from another perspective, what I believe Berhman has done remarkably well is to convey just how much his life was one lived in fear, uncontrolled energy and terrifying frenzy.    As I read the book, I found myself needing to put it down every so often just to catch my breath. This may be what caused so many reviewers to react negatively to Electroboy. Yet, my sense of this cyclonic story is that it actually conveys to its audience just a small flavor of the severe degree to which the individual suffering is just simply out of control! Yes, it is filled with alcohol, drugs, sex, bizarre world travel, and other seemingly reprehensible behavior! This is the 'stuff of the illness'     While some may choose to view Berhman's behavior as hedonistic or self centered or egotistical, these conclusions really speak to how little is widely known about manic-depressive illness and most other mental illnesses.Our society continues to hedge on its willingness to recognize mental illness as real. While we have come a long way from parking our disturbed relatives hundreds of miles away in institutions where \\"out of sight and out of mind\\" ruled the ways of treatment, even in our more progressive and informed twenty-first century, we still have some very faulty and often superstitious beliefs about mental illness.    Honestly, who would choose to live life in such free fall and utter chaos? I know I wouldn't. Most people certainly don't choose such a life. I don't think those who suffer it choose it either.     For too long we have labeled mental illness as a moral, or religious or willpower failure. Others only describe the behavior by its outward manifestations and related labels: alcoholic, drug addict, sexual deviant, thief, and sociopath... It would seem to me that we need to make some urgently needed revisions on the conclusions and judgments we make when an individual member of our world is so utterly disordered.     We might begin with a simple question pursued diligently by the search for an answer -- What's causing this crazy making? More likely than the failings of morality, or will, we will increasingly come to understand, hopefully soon with empirical evidence, that there exists an authentic organic disease of the brain.     While we have mastered much of the physical body, the brain continues to be largely uncharted territory. We still too often want to view mental illness through the more familiar lens with which we view the broken leg or the tumor or an infection. Quite simple -- Diagnose and treat aggressively! Yet, we aren't so good at realizing that we know much more about the cause and treatment of infections and broken limbs than we do about the malfunctioning brain. We are still in some ways in the dark ages with the diagnostic and treatment approaches for mental illness. Without increased voice for research funding and for insurance coverage, we will probably remain in this dark place for the foreseeable future.     The most compelling and saddening part of Andy Berhman's struggle to gain a level plain on which to live life is how imprecise medical treatment is for mental illnesses. Even with hopeful recent additions to the armament of medications, its seems they are used too broadly with a \\"one size fits all\\" attitude. Yet the reality of mental illness diagnosis and treatment is the fact that what works for one person doesn't often work for the next. Dosages need to be trialed and monitored for each individual. Combinations of drugs need to be constantly tinkered with, often over long periods of time. Some people respond to much less medication than others; some to much more than standard.    At the very same time we begin to understand just how complex treatment is for an illness such as this one is, Medical Insurance policies continue to scale back coverage for mental illness. Psychiatric time is often doled out in fifteen-minute segments for a pre-determined number of sessions -- often allocated even before a diagnosis is made. Appointments are often set months apart. Patients are given medications in standard dosages and told to follow the instructions and come back in a month or three! What we know darn well about people who are sick is that they don't have the wherewithal to follow anything with a degree of consistency. To start with these indivduals often don't have much hope left.Why bother with the medications? Beyond this, asking the disordered mind to follow the order required to take a regimen of medications isn't exactly a logical treatment approach. These folks need some help to do things as basic as take medications until they reach a point where they can do it for themselves.    Sadly, on the human level, too often when mentally ill human beings are at their utter bottoms and need their friends and loved ones the most, simply to take care of them in basic ways -- watch their medications, make sure they eat, wash -- these very important people often make themselves particularly scarce out of frustration, fear or their own sense of helplessness.    I hope that Andy Berhman's courageousness in \\"laying it all out there\\" for the general public to see helps at least a few professionals to pay better attention to those who come to them for help. So too, I pray that Berhman's story will offer a ray of hope to those (or their family members) still suffering through turmoil similar to that which Berhman himself experienced. I applaud Berhman's contribution to helping us all understand just a little more about the illnesses of the mind!    James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2002-04-26
US	51631879	R2HVL8RDADJ69N	0385506198	869666762	The Natural: The Misunderstood Presidency of Bill Clinton	Books	5	16	21	N	N	A Balanced Perspective On Bill Clinton	I am tired of all of the Clinton-bashing. The man is not some stupid southern hick who fell into the White House. <br />I don't care what the pundits and just plain Clinton-haters have to say, I as an average citizen believe he did a remarkably good job over his eight years in office.<br />Indeed Clinton infuriated me at times with his shifting positions and his seemingly uncontrollable libido. He did some stupid and embarrassing things. Yet, he was real, &quot;warts and all.&quot;<br />For my money, he is the most human president we have had in many years. We have enough plastic politicians. In Bill Clinton, what we saw was a very brilliant, yet imperfect man, who had an enormously natural talent to serve the American people.  He did a good job on our behalf. As Klein points out, Clinton is a &quot;Natural!&quot; <br />Klein presents a very balaned portrait of a bright and complex man who did remarkably well despite his own humanity and the woes of having to deal with a publicly funded witch hunt for his entire eight years in office. <br />A fast, fair and very readable book about an interesting man who finally has a life that he doesn't have to live under a microscope anymore.	2002-04-10
US	51631879	R1N4PTNJ4AD9P3	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	4	9	18	N	N	Tragi-comedy That Challenges	Michael Moore's book \\"Stupid White Men\\" is delightfully funny, yet at the same time, frighteningly dark. (By the way, men in Moore's case includes wo-men!)<br />Beneath some of the seemingly hysterical rants, lie some very serious questions I believe every American citizen needs to ask of ourselves -- color and gender not a factor.<br />I think the saddest point that Moore confronts us with is that as the Free-est country in the world, we are the least politically present at voting time and in letting our representative goverment know what we demand of them. This is a sobering fact and I believe Moore puts the right time on our alarm clocks for a wake up!<br />Along the way, he asks some other questions and presents some wonderful facts.	2002-04-10
US	51631879	RF0SG5ZDNIL81	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	One of the Year's Funniest Books	The two authors provide their readers with a laugh a minute journey through their composite nanny career in New York. Just pricelessly funny!<br />While fiction, as a born and bred New Yorker, some of the tales told here in The Nanny Diaries are not very far from some very real and current day situations. Without attempting to stereotype any group, there are some folks who have their priorities all mixed up and have the money to afford to keep them that way. A joyful read!	2002-04-10
US	51631879	RDD7U6W7FWDJZ	1891620754	963615499	Gracefully Insane: The Rise and Fall of America's Premier Mental Hospital	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fascinating Historical Perspective On Mental Illness	A non-fiction book on a mental institution's history has got to be pretty amazing to be able to carry most people's attention throughout. Gracefully Insane manages to accomplish the seemingly impossible. I was riveted to Alex Beam's story of McLean Hospital.<br />From my perspective Beam manages to teach the reader much more than the history of McLean Hospital. His is the story of how mental illness has carried such an incredible stigma in our society for many years. Sadly, it continues to carry that same stigma. The fact that those who were wealthy in Massachusetts or anywhere in the country could place their loved ones in a safe place that respected their dignity is understandable. While fear of being viewed as a flawed family by having a mentally ill relative may have motivated many to practice the age old &quot;out of sight, out of mind&quot; approach to treatment, these families were just like families from any station of society. They needed to &quot;hide&quot; the mentally ill -- whether in a plush asylum or in the family &quot;attic.&quot; Beam's work helps me understand that sad societal dynamic much more clearly than ever before.<br />In addition to a social commentary, Alex Beam also offers an excellent overview of the history of treatments available within hospitals for &quot;trying to help the sick become well.&quot; <br />Trial and error seems to have been operative throughout history. Sadly, &quot;trial and error&quot; continues to be the best and most promising psychiatric approach today. While medicines and insurance companies dictate much about treatment today, people who are able to get help don't just swallow some magic potion and get instantly well.<br />Mental Illness of one sort or another is much more common than most people would like to believe. A really good place to make some true social and medical progress in its regard is to &quot;put the realities on the table&quot; and face them. <br />Alex Beam contributes to this desperate need that we have in our very advanced technological age. We still have to squarely face off the extremely humbling fact that we live in a world that is populated by imperfect, often flawed (probably genetically) human beings who are suffering. In a world where we seem to believe we have great powers over everything, admitting what we can't control and freely speaking about it can offer us the best route to making progress. Denial is no route to anywhere productive and Alex Beam seems to know this.<br />Let's continue this open approach that Alex Beam's Gracefully Insane models for us. Let's talk about the real issues. Let's think about those who suffer. Let's recognize what we don't know as clearly as what we believe we know. Imagine, we might just surprise ourselves and make some progress and in the process, return to our humanity by better attempting to help those who suffer.	2002-03-12
US	51631879	R1EGLFRF0AP9UU	1891620754	963615499	Gracefully Insane: The Rise and Fall of America's Premier Mental Hospital	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Fascinating Historical Perspective On Mental Illness	A non-fiction book on a mental institution's history has got to be pretty amazing to be able to carry most people's attention throughout. Gracefully Insane manages to accomplish the seemingly impossible. I was riveted to Alex Beam's story of McLean Hospital.<br />From my perspective Beam manages to teach the reader much more than the history of McLean Hospital. His is the story of how mental illness has carried such an incredible stigma in our society for many years. Sadly, it continues to carry that same stigma. The fact that those who were wealthy in Massachusetts or anywhere in the country could place their loved ones in a safe place that respected their dignity is understandable. While fear of being viewed as a flawed family by having a mentally ill relative may have motivated many to practice the age old &quot;out of sight, out of mind&quot; approach to treatment, these families were just like families from any station of society. They needed to &quot;hide&quot; the mentally ill -- whether in a plush asylum or in the family &quot;attic.&quot; Beam's work helps me understand that sad societal dynamic much more clearly than ever before.<br />In addition to a social commentary, Alex Beam also offers an excellent overview of the history of treatments available within hospitals for &quot;trying to help the sick become well.&quot; <br />Trial and error seems to have been operative throughout history. Sadly, &quot;trial and error&quot; continues to be the best and most promising psychiatric approach today. While medicines and insurance companies dictate much about treatment today, people who are able to get help don't just swallow some magic potion and get instantly well.<br />Mental Illness of one sort or another is much more common than most people would like to believe. A really good place to make some true social and medical progress in its regard is to &quot;put the realities on the table&quot; and face them. <br />Alex Beam contributes to this desperate need that we have in our very advanced technological age. We still have to squarely face off the extremely humbling fact that we live in a world that is populated by imperfect, often flawed (probably genetically) human beings who are suffering. In a world where we seem to believe we have great powers over everything, admitting what we can't control and freely speaking about it can offer us the best route to making progress. Denial is no route to anywhere productive and Alex Beam seems to know this.<br />Let's continue this open approach that Alex Beam's Gracefully Insane models for us. Let's talk about the real issues. Let's think about those who suffer. Let's recognize what we don't know as clearly as what we believe we know. Imagine, we might just surprise ourselves and make some progress and in the process, return to our humanity by better attempting to help those who suffer.	2002-03-12
US	51631879	R3BCC730EIOGUR	0316693235	147933002	Violets Are Blue ~ Detective Alex Cross Series	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Even With A Bad Story, Alex Cross Still Rules	Violets Are Blue is probably the poorest James Patterson mystery I have read. Yet, when all is said and done, he has a great character in Alex Cross. Cross is a fully realized character who has become familiar in many of Patterson's other novels. <br />I feel that the shortcoming in Violets Are Blue is the effort to reuse previous &quot;bad guys&quot; again and again even when the faithful reader is pretty likely to know &quot;who done it.&quot;. In addition, Violets is fairly unbelieveable as stories go, as well as bloodly and gruesome. <br />While I remain faithful to Alex Cross, I would like to see this character get some better attention in the future.	2002-02-27
US	51631879	R2USIP3DC629BF	0312269587	268236099	Plane Insanity: A Flight Attendant's Tales of Sex, Rage, and Queasiness at 30,000 Feet	Books	4	39	45	N	N	A Visit To the Psych Ward at 30,000 feet!	Question: What happens when you combine from 100 to 350 human beings, confine them in a cramped space for hours on end, and move them around the earth at 500 miles an hour at an altitude of 30,000 feet?<br />Answer: You create a laboratory for the observer of psychological pathology- or more plainly, you have the antics that occur on a typical airliner on most days in any year.<br />In\\" Flight Insanity\\", Elliott Hester provides the reader with \\"highlights\\" of his sixteen-year career as a flight attendant.<br />Having traveled a fair amount in my life, I know firsthand that flying is nothing exotic. Increasingly, air travel is an uncomfortable trial to endure -- it's &quot;what we have to go through&quot; in order &quot;to end up where we want to be&quot;.<br />Hester's book is rollickingly funny! A breezy read -- detailing incredible, yet entirely believable stories as viewed  from the plane's galley. <br />While I have heard all kinds of flight attendant joke, and laughed at quite a few, by the end of Flight Insanity, I had a new respect for the challenges of this beleaguered profession. The attendants get the last laugh!<br />Through his stories, Hester provides some great detail into odd tidbits of factual information on air travel and the industry itself. The human beings - passengers, pilots and attendants themselves, are a curious mix at high altitudes. If you travel by plane at all, I highly recommend &quot;Flight Insanity.&quot;	2002-01-28
US	51631879	R17A4BS2WOJM03	0898629594	105181714	Ethnicity and Family Therapy: Second Edition	Books	5	12	14	N	N	The Best There Is On The Influences of Our Ancestors	Ethnicity and Family Therapy is quite simply the best book that exists to any interested person as well as students and professionals with a good overview of important factors to understand when dealing with differences that exist in people. <br />I first became familiar with Monica McGoldrick about eighteen years ago. She has devoted her life's work to research and writing on the influences of ancestry and ethnicity in our contemporary lives. Every time I pick this book up (over the first and second editions), I find myself lost in it as if it is my first discovery of it and I always learn something new! A great book for a discussion group to consider.	2002-01-21
US	51631879	R339RBS6Z2EUUJ	068485466X	275267442	The Noonday Demon: An Atlas Of Depression	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	Hope,and Great Information for a Pevasive Problem	Andrew Solomon is indeed deserving of the recognitionl given him for Noonday Demon as receipient of the National Book Award. <br />In Demon, Solomon assists us all in realizing how crippling depression is for so many people. He provides informed and depthful information on the full range of manifestations in which depression shows itself in life. For those suffereing and those seeking to understand  this illness, there a fine review of all of the causes and the  treatment modalities. He gives the reader an understanding of how complex this illness can be and just how widespread it is.<br />Most important of all, Solomon tells of his own depressive illness, and offers through his example, a tremendous hope for  those still suffering. There can be life again, and you are not alone!  A singularly important book for our times!	2002-01-20
US	51631879	R758HNTNGLZO7	0670882356	985444832	When Character Was King: A Story of Ronald Reagan	Books	5	31	39	N	N	An Outstanding Writer Explains A Great Man	Peggy Noonan is one of the finest political writers of our time. First of all, she is simply a very talented writer. I would read her version of the phone book if she annotated it! Beyond her skill, Noonan has a remarkable eye for cutting through a story and getting the most important lesson that might be found within. She keeps her reader totally engaged and manages to make us feel a part of her story. Throughout this book, I kept feeling like I was sitting next to Noonan engaged in a fascinating conversation about Ronald Reagan's life. There are a lot of writers and many books published. Noonan is singular in her skill and ability!<br />In When Character Was King, Noonan takes the reader through Ronald Reagan's life with an eye to capturing the essence of the man. She succeeds remarkably!.  As we have allowed twenty years to pass, Ronald Reagan indeed re-emerges in this book as a one truly great and special man -- calmly and humbly, changing the world around him for the better. Historical and spiritually enriching! Highly recommended -- and not just for Reagan fans!	2002-01-19
US	51631879	R1916139ZWGBIZ	0609609033	517181171	As the Future Catches You: How Genomics & Other Forces Are Changing Your Life, Work, Health & Wealth	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Future Lies Ahead of Us -- Not Behind. Preparre!	I have been hypnotized by this seemingly brief book for over a month now. Initially, I was attracted to the cover of the book (ideas catching fire) -- at least enough to take a closer look inside -- what I now consider one of the most important books to be published this year.     On first glance, once I saw that As the Future Catches You dealt with what appeared to be \\"scientific\\" topics, I was inclined to put it back down on the counter and move on.  The pure sciences have never been my greatest interest or strength. Yet, as I started to read the headings of the sections of the book, and sampled some of the initial ideas, the fire that the cover portrays lit inside me! After reading the first ten pages I was absolutely `ablaze'.    Ironically, this short book has taken me longer to work through than most 500 or 600 page books I have read. It is a collection of facts, cases, arguments, criticisms and scenarios that demand some serious and sometimes sobering thought and reflection. My now well worn book is filled with notes and underlining, along with personal reflections that grew out of points that the author made, or catalyzed, in my own mind while considering his presentation.     Juan Enriquez writes very clearly and compellingly about how the future will be significantly different than the present. While many of us are quite proud of the change we have managed to adapt to in the past decade as technology diffusion took place and changed our world in record time, we have likely given little thought to what other changes we might need to prepare ourselves to face in the short term. As the Future Catches You - does just that. It gets our attention in a very big way.    Juan Enriquez informs us that the rapidly emerging advances in genome research, coupled with technology and economics will change us in ways that will make the technological revolution of the past decade seem minor     The author presents a book that appears playful on the one hand because of the layout and creative use of type font but all of that is actually hypnotically deceptive. This little `playful' book is a very serious instrument, which clobbers us over the head, page after page, with particularly compelling facts, conclusions and new food for thought - page after page, over and over.    Enriquez urges us to prepare for what is to come - not by looking in our rear view mirrors while driving onward- but by opening our eyes, facing front, hanging on tight, getting ready for the ride and a fast one it will be at that!     The genetic revolution is well underway. This is not a \\"could happen\\" book. In As the Future Catches You, we meet figures whose names are not yet known in many households- yet these are names that will become as important, if not more so, that the greatest change leaders our world has ever encountered. These are the researchers and other members of the `knowledge' community, all seekers, who are already far beyond most of us in their thinking and in what they have already achieved. These folks are not celebrity figures. We don't hear about them everyday. There isn't much interest in their personal lives. Theirs is not a `sexy' medium or industry.  Yet, these trailblazing scouts are already far out on a pretty uncharted path drawing up some maps that many of us will eventually come to likely know like the `back of our own hands.' These men and women are leading the charge on a new and very dramatic wave of changes in scientific, social, ethical, psychological, physical, spiritual and personal realms.     Every educated person needs to know more about these men and women and their work. And we need that information YESTERDAY!    Genes, Computers, Economics, Knowledge, Globalism, Education. In combination, within new fields, some of which we don't even know what to call, we are about to see a diffusion of innovation that is building to a launch speed unlike any timeframe or pace we, or our ancestors and their forbearers, has ever witnessed.     Enriquez seems to want to shake us, shock us, electrify us, cajole us, insult us and use whatever means he can to get us to make a personal \\"leap of faith\\" toward better preparedness for the future. His efforts did that to me. I am sitting up straight and paying lots of attention!    This initially reluctant reader is convinced that Juan Enriquez is absolutely on target. The train is leaving the station. Our choice is whether we want to be on the train or we want to watch its rear end as it leaves - whether to be a part of the trip or to be left behind! This is the decision that each of us will need to face. So too, every country around the world will need to pay complete attention to this same question. A journey is starting. Are we going to be a part of it? Or, will we be left behind wondering what we didn't know that we obviously have lost out as a result of our ignorance.    While we may seek to dismiss the ideas Enriquez outlines as possibly overblown, or far too science-fiction- like, his research is so completely thorough, his arguments so compelling and clear and his conclusions so obvious, that it is hard to dismiss what is reported to us.    I believe that this is a book every college and university should immediately add into its curriculum as required reading for careful study. Any person being initially educated for tomorrow's world at this point must be steeped in the language that Juan Enriquez only introduces us to in his small effort.     For those of us who have completed our formal education, it's time to get our minds in full gear again; it's time to do a bit of studying and learning all over again! While some of us may have had some fantasies about a slower paced tomorrow - at least slower than the last ten years of change - it seems we `ain't seen nothin' yet! So we better get ready! It's time to travel --- forward!    An Outstanding Mind Expanding Read!    Daniel J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	2002-01-10
US	51631879	R1CCJ8QE7RG1X2	0312140940	65783878	Wonder Boys: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Writers, Professors, Students!	I found Wonder Boys to be a truly interesting read. The author developed  each of his characters very carefully and each seemed very authentic. The  portrayal of the professor/writer who represented one of the major  characters was indeed someone I came to observe carefully throughout my  reading. While he wasn't the most attractive individual, I found him to be  a struggling and real human being. He's at a difficult age in his life and  some of the seams are showing. His student, also a writer is a complex  character. Through the story, a kind of mystery develops that left me  anticipating outcomes. This was an excellent technique used by the  author.All in all, this was a very engaging story that made it easy to read  to the end. Unexpected outcomes from my anticipations made it all the more  intersting.	2000-08-31
US	51631879	R31YITQVDCX3BX	055356451X	636592968	Night Sins (Deer Lake)	Books	5	28	35	N	N	First Half of A Facinating Investigation	Eight year old Josh Kirkwood is abducted outside the hockey arena where he  has finished practice. Only one clue is left in the form of a note  regarding ignorance and sin. Josh's parents, Dr. Hannah Garrison and Paul  Kirkwood are beside themselves. Enter Megan O'Malley, Bureau of Criminal  Apprehension Investigator and Mitch Holt, Chief of Police for the town of  Deer Lake, Minnesota. They set out to investigate Josh's disappearance but  don't have much to go on. The kidnapper leaves two more clues in the form  of short religiously oriented notes but there still is not much direction.  The town responds by setting up search parties and telephone volunteers.  But it's not easy. Slowly some suspects come into the picture, yet, they  seem to disappear as quickly as they arrive. Tami Hoag does a fine job in  building this first of a two part story regarding child abduction and the  challenges it presents to law enforcement. While the ending is very  hopeful, the reader needs to go on to Guilty As Sin for the full story.  Night Sins and Guilty As Sin provide the reader with an excellent story  that you can sink your teeth into. It's nice  that Hoag didn't choose to  simply wrap up a complex story in the last chapter. Further layers unfold  in this fascinating story in volume two. Well worth the time and effort.	2000-08-22
US	51631879	R1DV0UUBYGEM22	0553564528	357663143	Guilty as Sin: A Novel (Deer Lake)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great Second Part to the Story	The continuation of the child abduction case Tami Hoag began in Night  Sins. The story concerns itself with the perpetrator of the abduction of  eight year old Josh Kirkwood. This is no simple case. The first suspect  committed suicide. The second seems  to have some alibi. Josh's father is  even suspected to be tied into what has taken place. Ellen North, County  Prosecutor and Mitch Holt, Police Chief for Deer Lake, Minnesota  investigate. An excellent second part to a very well developed story. A  complex and satisfying conclusion.	2000-08-22
US	51631879	R1RXCXTSXXRACI	0425126064	355969221	Shadow Prey	Books	4	16	19	N	N	The Motive Might Be Other Than You Think	The head of the FBI is targeted for death by a group of Indians bent on  getting personal revenge for something the FBI man did early in his career.  However, in planning to get to him, they make it appear as if a war is  called on the white mans sins against the Indian people. John Sandford  creates an excellent story, set in the context of the Native American  people living in Minnesota. Deputy Chief of Police Lucas Davenport  investigates the murders along with New York City Detective Lily Rosenthal.  An interesting addition to Sandford's Prey series.	2000-08-22
US	51631879	R1FMQAEDICMCA3	0684859718	666165371	Deadly Decisions	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Bikers At War	Deadly Decisions is the third in Kathy Reich's' tales about forensic anthropologist Dr. Temperance Brennan. Brennan spends part of her year in North Carolina as a professor and researcher. The rest of the year is spent assisting in Canada helping in Montreal's Laboratory of Legal Medicine where she investigates the identity and cause of death in old and damaged corpses. While sounding gruesome, Reich's is an excellent storyteller. Herself a forensic scientist, she helps the reader to get involved in her cases. She makes them fascinating studies of science. At the same time, her character Temp Brennan gets herself a bit more involved in this cases than simply performing laboratory science. In Deadly Decisions, Montreal's bikers are at war. The different biker groups are killing one another1s members and some innocent bystanders. Temp Brennan gets involved when a nine year old child is killed when passing by at the time of one of these biker killings. The next thing she knows, she's studying up on the world of bikers. Then she gets personally drawn in as the bikers decide her ability to identify the dead can hurt them. A gripping story where I learned a lot more about death that I might of wanted to -- as well as about the world of bikers. Yet, Deadly Decisions as with Reich's' other tales, it is a very engaging read!	2000-08-21
US	51631879	R1CSI8L1CV16BY	055356160X	760759205	Cry Wolf: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Not Exactly Southern Hospitality	Prosecutor Laurel Chandler has suffered a nervous breakdown after losing a  case where children were being abused. The loss makes things worse in that  Laurel is convinced of the abuse and the fact that the perpetrators have  gone free have just made her completely sick. She heads to her paternal  Aunt's home in Bayou Breaux, Louisiana to heal. Despite Laurel's desire to  simply do nothing, she's pretty quickly drawn in by some of the town's  characters. In addition a serial killer is hunting woman in the nearby  towns and killing them. Tami Hoag has created a fascinating story and  excellent characters. As a reader, I was completely taken by the richness  of the character development and the authentic feel of a small town in  Louisiana. Obviously Laurel rises to the occasion and starts investigating  the serial killings. Yet, this isn't simply a fascinating mystery. It's  also the story of odd but engaging characters that kept me wanting to read  more. I just couldn't wait to find out what was up next. One of Hoag's  best.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R5Z241LTMZJ8E	0312966652	336478930	Let It Bleed (Inspector Rebus Novels)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Much More Than Coincidence	A girl is missing. Two teenagers suddenly seem to jump off a bridge, a man  takes his own life at an unlikely town meeting. Ian Rankin's John Rebus is  the investigator. Set in Scotland and Wales, Rebus is a very likeable  detective. The story is well crafted and I found as a reader that I was  hooked from the get go. Well worth it!	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R5KV82DS5NCDL	0425168298	190244664	Secret Prey (Lucas Davenport, No 9)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Murder In the Midst of Mergers and Acquistions	A banks chairman of the board is killed while on a hunting trip with  business associates. While initial hopes are for an accident, its not. The  banker has been murdered and has too many enemies to count. Just before his  death, the banker was planning a merger of his bank with another. The move  was extremely controversial and he only added to his list of enemies. As we  meet the cast of characters its easy to begin suspecting each one. They  all seemed to have something to gain. Deputy Chief of the Minneapolis  Police Department, Lucas Davenport is on the case. Davenport leads us from  one suspect to another. Yet, there seems to be lots of suspicion to spread  around. Then the suspects start being killed. The story moves into a new  range of tense excitement. A surprising ending to a very well developed  story! Keeps you going from start to finish.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R2D7MP7HDW5WYY	0553292722	94468636	Still Waters: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A Not So Welcome Town	After a nasty divorce, Elizabeth Stuart buys a newspaper and a home in  rural Still Creek, Minnesota and attempts to resettle herself and her  sixteen year old son there. Elizabeth finds that she's treated quite  suspiciously as a single woman in a small rural area. There is no welcome  mat out for her or her son. One night on the way home from work.  Elizabeth's car gets ditched and she has to try to walk the rest of the way  home. On the way she makes the effort to get a ride from one of the few  cars she sees in the area. Unfortunately, the car contains the dead body of  a wealthy area developer and Elizabeth becomes a prime suspect in his  murder. Author Tami Hoag has created an exciting story and characters that  it's easy to come to care about. An engaging story and mystery from  beginning to end.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R1FFBCFVQ2EXT4	0671023519	450898741	White Lies	Books	5	15	15	N	N	It Isn't Always What It Seems To Be	Psychologist Michael Stone deals with some fairly complicated cases of unusual sexual expression. When a physician comes to her for assessment, we  are led into a web of events that are thoroughly engaging. Author Anna  Salter provides Stone with a wonderfully strong and likeable personality.  Michael Stone is a woman on a mission. She is strong and determined. She  speaks her mind. She is no pushover therapist who accepts everything her  clients have to report to her without question. White Lies grows into a  complex mystery that takes time to unwind. As a reader, I was totally taken  by the story. Salter is an excellent storyteller.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R1RSFQ3ZINN4O	0425157539	449281512	Sudden Prey	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Keep A Leash on Those Convicts	Two bank robbers are taken out in a gunfight by the Minneapolis Police  Department. A relative of theirs who is allowed to attend the funeral while  on leave from prison escapes. His intention is pure revenge against the  police officers responsible for the killings. All of the cops involved and  their families seem to be targets. Deputy Chief of the Minneapolis Police  Department, Lucas Davenport, leads the investigation. The convict seeking  revenge has really done his homework. He knows who was involved in the bank  killings and who their family members are. This is no easy case for the  Police. An exciting action packed story set in the Twin Cities that really  kept me reading to the end. Sandford is a truly talented writer.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R3KFNEB793D7KT	0312971265	852313948	The Best-Kept Secret: A Milan Jacovich Mystery (Milan Jacovich Mysteries)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Pretty Frightening Freshman Year	Jason Crowell, a freshman living away at college is accused of rape on campus. The only problem is that he doesn't know who is doing the accusing.  One of Jason's former teachers calls on old friend, Private Investigator  Milan Jacovich to look into what's going on at Jason's school. It's pretty  likely Jason didn't do it. There's something Jason hasn't told too many  people about himself! The Best Kept Secret is a thoroughly enjoyable read.  Jason is a very believable innocent who is being taken in by something  larger on campus, something he doesn't understand. Milan Jacovich, a  continuing character in Les Roberts' stories is a strong and even  investigator. A good read.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R5R86UMJ9P0V7	0671003135	499208687	Fault Lines	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Sometimes We Meet Someone We Don't Like Twice	Psychologist Michael Stone is being challenged by a man she had studied to  learn about deviant personality when he was in prison. He is unexpectedly  released and Stone's world is starting to turn upside down. From suspecting  that her office is bugged to a number of other diabolical efforts to get  under Michael Stone's skin, this taut mystery is totally engaging. This is  an easy one to read from cover to cover in one sitting.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R2KV5JNWXX0K6Q	068484527X	992945233	BLUE BLOOD (Ivy League Mysteries)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Blood On The Ivy	Pamela Thomas-Graham offers the reader an exciting whodunit set within the  ivied walls of Yale. Following the murder of a well known professor, a  friend of her husband  another professor -- comes from Harvard to see what  she can learn of the murder. The character of Nikki Chase is especially  well-crafted. A strong African American woman, she is not intimidated by  the sacred ivy walls within which she finds herself investigating. A story  that has an authentic feel to it with very human characters.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R2LGWCRES52Q3W	0425152898	596059317	Mind Prey	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Watch Out for Parked Vans	Dr. Andi Manette and her two children are kidnapped from near the kid's  school. Witnesses tell the police that they saw blood on the victims as  they were being taken away in an unusual looking van. The general public is  alarmed. The story moves rapidly from there. We share the inside story of  the kidnapped family's experience, we learn of the mind that has led to  their being victimized. We follow Minneapolis Inspector Lucas Davenport as  he weaves together a complicated set of clues that he hopes will find the  Manette's. A tense and gripping story that is thoroughly engaging.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R2S8W74HXTC61Y	0312958781	521800603	Tooth and Nail (Inspector Rebus Novels)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Pretty Strange Murders	Each victim is being bitten after death by teeth that seem to resemble  those that might be found on some monster. This is the story of a serial  killer set in Scotland that puts its hooks in at the start. I finished this  in two sittings because I couldn't wait to find out what was going to take  place next. A well-crafted mystery series. John Rebus, the Scottish  policeman is a wonderful and lasting character.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	RINYDHJBYUEVG	0553579541	427748260	Tunnel of Night	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dead Serial Killer?	Serial killer John Wolf was dead  or was clearly believed to be. A year  after his death, former FBI agent Lucas Frank begins to suspect that Wolf  is not only alive but he is perilously close. Authors John Philipin and  Patricia Sierra have created fascinating characters here. The story has the  reader traveling the country with Wolf and Frank as it reveals itself. A  gripping mystery with fascinating information on the patterns of serial  killers. Totally believable.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R2FI4T2VDGS0VQ	0425141233	586426642	Winter Prey	Books	5	1	2	N	N	It's Cold Out There	People are dying all over the small town of Grant Wisconsin. Police there  aren't particularly experienced in murder investigations. There are no  obvious suspects. The killings don't even seem all that related. Wisconsin  police ask retired Minneapolis Police Officer Lucas Davenport to help.  Davenport takes on the case and begins a slow and careful investigation  that makes the parish priest the most likely suspect. Yet of course, what1s  obvious is often not likely. Through cold and blinding snow, Davenport  leads the reader through an elaborate maze of clues to get to the real  killer. A well developed cast of characters set in a challenging  environment keeps the read a good one.  A look inside the killer's mind  throughout the story gives us the inside edge. Yet it's no easy guess at  who we come to expect the killer to be.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R60LXZBBQ9IK	0671011375	466385534	Death du Jour (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Watch Out for Those Bones	Forensic pathologist Temp Brennan spends part of each year in North  Carolina and part of it in Quebec -- investigating death. Usually her  investigations find her examining bodies and bones of historical deaths or  of recent deaths where normal means of pathological investigation aren't  effective. Author Kathy Reichs clearly knows her pathology. Herself a  practitioner, she makes her field exciting for the reader to learn about.  In addition her character Temp Brennan finds herself in the midst of people  who's deaths have been quite mysterious. Death Du Jour travels from  uncovering the hundred year old remains of a nun who is believed to be a  Saint to the sleaziness of a cult who might just be killing people as part  of their worship. Temp Brennan isn't just a laboratory investigator. She is  indeed one solid pathologist who is not particularly willing to let a case  close without getting to the bottom of it. A fascinating world and a well  told mystery.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R1ORXNXBIJIDJ4	0671004182	198680983	The Ghost	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Who's Watching Your Back?	New York City Police Detective Rosalind Magellan is working undercover.  She is tracking a crooked judge and his lawyer who seem to be involved in  every kind of illegal money making scheme. Ross needs to get the evidence   without blowing her cover. An engaging methodical story that gets  complicated by the fact that someone is tracking Ross' every movement.  Someone knows what she is up to. Marc Olden has created some excellent  characters for Ghost. Ross Magellan is a keeper. I would follow her  investigations anywhere.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R22RH0R2RTAZ4F	0425121631	425740762	Rules of Prey	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An Orderly Twisted Mind	Rules of Prey catches you right from the beginning as we are introduced to  a clearly sick serial killer. The killer stays away from conventional  patterns which police have identified as helpful in tracking serial killers  and leaves a new rule with each of his victims. Minneapolis Police  Investigator, Lucas Davenport leads the police in hunting this increasingly  dangerous menace as he makes his way through too many Twin Cities victims.  A great read right from the first page.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R1TL2WVV7J2LOY	0425137562	525066589	Silent Prey	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Wicked Character Returns	A killer from one of Sandford's earlier books, Eyes of Prey,  escapes. He's quickly back in business and isn't easy to find. Silent Prey brings  the reader and Minneapolis Police Investigator, Lucas Davenport,  to New  York City in the hopes of finding serial killer Michael Becker. While  there, Davenport is  also asked to look into some serious police corruption  within the department. An exciting addition to the Lucas Davenport series.  Read Eyes of Prey first and follow it up with Silent Prey.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R6W7L18R5LWQQ	0425132048	380888601	Eyes of Prey	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Who's Watching?	Stephanie Becker is brutally murdered in her kitchen one morning while her  husband is on a business trip. John Sandford founds his framework for Eyes  of Prey on Stephanie's murder. Prey mainstay, Minneapolis Inspector Lucas  Davenport is assigned to investigate the murder. While Stephanie's husband  has a solid alibi, Lucas is not convinced he is without a hand in  Stephanie's death. This is an exciting story of multiple murders and  intricate webs of intrigue. Sandford carefully crafts this story to grab  the reader early on and keep them holding on until the end. Well done!	2000-08-20
US	51631879	RNAPGF5G37S82	0553561618	806983409	Dark Paradise: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	All Small Towns Aren't So Friendly	Marilee Jennings quits her job and decides to leave California for Montana  where her friend Lucy MacAdam who moved there the year before. When Marilee  arrives, she finds out that Lucy's been dead for over a week, the apparent  victim of an accidental shooting. Marilee stays in town to mourn her friend  and figure out what she's going to do with the rest of her life. She soon  discovers that life in New Eden, Montana is not as tranquil as it might  appear to be. J.D. Rafferty, Lucy's neighbor makes her feel most unwelcome  in the town and there seems to be a real split running through the town on  the influx of rich California people who are buying up property in New  Eden. Marilee finds out that she is Lucy's heir and that she has inherited  her small farm. While she can't decide whether to stay in New Eden or not,  she finds herself increasingly uncomfortable with the explanation for  Lucys death. She also finds herself thinking more and more about J.D.  Rafferty. Tami Hoag has created a rich story set in an attractive town with  not always attractive characters. The read is a good one. We feel as if we  come to know Marilee as a family friend and I found myself rooting for her  throughout the story.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	RO6KGUVBDU52J	0553106341	334109426	Dust to Dust	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Is There More Than Meets the Eye?	Following up on her previous book, Ashes to Ashes, Tami Hoag brings us into a new Minneapolis based mystery with some characters we came to know  in Ashes. An exciting story that starts with the death of Police Officer  Andy Fallon's apparent suicide as a result of rejection by his father  because he was gay. Next, Andy's father is dead and there is clearly  something wrong with what is also made to look like a suicide. The story  takes us into the world of the Minneapolis Police Department and what's  been going on there over a twenty year period. Great characters. A  compelling read. Read Ashes to Ashes and follow it with Dust to Dust.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R3LNSMKG68HE7E	0671011375	466385534	Death du Jour (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Watch Out for Those Bones	Forensic pathologist Temp Brennan spends part of each year in North  Carolina and part of it in Quebec -- investigating death. Usually her  investigations find her examining bodies and bones of historical deaths or  of recent deaths where normal means of pathological investigation aren't  effective. Author Kathy Reichs clearly knows her pathology. Herself a  practitioner, she makes her field exciting for the reader to learn about.  In addition her character Temp Brennan finds herself in the midst of people  who's deaths have been quite mysterious. Death Du Jour travels from  uncovering the hundred year old remains of a nun who is believed to be a  Saint to the sleaziness of a cult who might just be killing people as part  of their worship. Temp Brennan isn't just a laboratory investigator. She is  indeed one solid pathologist who is not particularly willing to let a case  close without getting to the bottom of it. A fascinating world and a well  told mystery.	2000-08-20
US	51631879	R1SQ5QLD0R87V8	0805060200	351248779	Boy in the Water	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Diabolical Faculty and Staff	This is the first book by Stephen Dobyns I have read. I found it truly remarkable and found it hard to put down. Boy In the Water is a taut psychological thriller that kept me wanting to read just one more chapter  every time I needed to put it aside. Set at a formerly tony elite prep  school in New Hampshire, the school has become a kind of expensive way  station for affluent kids who have been in trouble, abused, emotionally  abandoned and just about every other kind of trauma that many adolescents  have experienced by the time they reach their teens. A nationally prominent  psychologist is brought in as the Headmaster after the school had almost  hit rock bottom. He faces a run down institution with almost no financial  resources to attend to it1s care. The faculty are a complete cast of  characters who have designed their lives on campus around their own  interests and needs and with little regard for their charges. Psychologist  cum Headmaster, Jim Hawthorn is himself recovering from a profound tragedy  in his own life and sets about pouring every ounce of attention into  bringing about change at the school. His first priority is the kids. He  soon find that this view is much at odds with the faculty'd way of  operating and the games begin. Layer upon layer of passive-aggressiveness  and actual criminal acts have been occurring at the school over the years.  This becomes compounded by various new elements of pure evil plotting to be  certain Hawthorne does not manage to keep the school open. Throughout the  story, as a reader, I kept rooting for the kids and the new headmaster. I  was afraid he was going to completely lose it several times, yet he  perseveres at almost insurmountable odds. Though the book concludes by  allowing the Headmaster to peel back layer upon layer of the problems at  hand, we can only sense that at the end, there is much promise for the  school and that Hawthorne will indeed make this institution into a first  class school that indeed meets the needs of its students. A compelling  read, well written and simply completely engaging. I look forward to  reading Dobyns other thrillers and can't wait for more!	2000-07-27
US	51631879	R219GHFCEMAZT1	039914613X	323998329	Easy Prey	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Certainly No Easy Murder Investigation	Starting with the puzzle of the death of a famous model and a lesser known woman, author John Sanford takes the reader on a journey of mounting intrigue and suspense. Minneapolis Police Department's Deputy Chief, Lucas  Davenport is charged with the case and he certainly is given no easy task.  Events continue throughout the story that make any simple solution to the  murders seem impossible. <br />Davenport must wade through the events of a  party at which the murders took place only to be met with more murder in  the person of the last photographer to photograph the dead model. The  killings don't stop there. More people meet their death and Davenport  appears to be running out of suspects. <br />Easy Prey is a wonderfully  developed mystery that keeps one fairly glued to a chair in search of new  developments. Ultimately, and at complete surprise, all is apparent. A  thoroughly enjoyable addition to John Sanford's, Lucas Davenport mysteries.	2000-07-25
US	51631879	R2WP99RRAQICWU	0312868758	916883970	The Bishop and The Missing L Train (A Father Blackie Ryan Mystery)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Another Enjoyable Blackie Ryan Tale	Andrew Greeley continues his Bishop Blackie Ryan mysteries in The Bishop and the L Train. Greeley's protagonist is a misanthropic Chicago cleric who assists the Cardinal Archbishop in the leadership of the Archdiocese of Chicago. <br />A funny, caustic and insightful character, Blackie is a kind of bumbling uncle whose eccentricities cloud his extraordinary intelligence.<br />In The Bishop and the L Train, Greeley presents a funny story of an assistant or auxilary bishop being passed on to the Chicago Archdiocese by Rome -- despite the fact that he isn't wanted or needed in Chicago. Rome wants to get rid of him! Chicago knows him and would agree with Rome - if they had a choice. <br />Bishop Quinn arrives and proceeds to be disruptive in Chicaqo. He quickly wears away good will on the part of parish members and fellow priests. In fact, Quinn angers many who have crossed his path. <br />Quinn, and the entire train he is riding on disappears one night on his return from Spanish lessons. Cardinal Ryan assigns Blackie to the case. He's to find Quinn and the train.<br />Blackie of course does as he is told and although finding the missing Bishop seems relatively easy; it is a greater challenge to figure out who did it. <br />Greeley presents a clever story, an assortment of unusual characters, laughter, church politics and some good old detective work in each of his mysteries. L Trains fills the bill. The conversations about Bishop Quinn are absolutely hysterical and probably give greater insight into some church appointments than they might appear to. In addition to the central story of Bishop Quinn's disappearance, the story contains two poignant love stories with characters that eventually become significant to the investigation of the perpetrators of the missing Bishop. <br />Greeley should write an ongoing serial featuring Bishop Blackie to keep fans going in between the full-length books. L Train is indeed another fine addition to the series.	2000-07-25
US	51631879	R1U06BDS3K611M	0446608483	835067122	The Pledge	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not Your Average Freshman Year	Set in Maine at an exclusive private college, The Pledge is a worthwhile first effort by Rob Kean. <br />The Pledge, not surprisingly, is set in a long established and incredibly wealthy fraternity. Alumni support and ongoing  involvement is a way of life.<br />While fraternity pledging seems to have  been tamed down in recent years by most colleges, the Brothers have  apparently not heard. The process of belonging seems to be a traumatic  series of events aimed at degrading, humiliating and absolutely breaking  down the new candidates. There is an uncomfortable air of torture in the  actions of the Brotherhood toward their aspirants. <br />The reader becomes  quickly engaged in the bizarre life of this fraternity  in the death of  freshman pledge, Chad Ewing. Cover-up becomes the order of the day when  Ewing loses his life after a night of horrifying pledge activity. The  college administration responds quickly to limit it's responsibility and  any fair investigation of what took place the night Ewing died. College  leadership seems primarily invested in the second in charge, Dean  Templeton, an unsavory human being if there ever was one. Everything he  touches is dishonest and seemingly rigged. <br />The fraternity shows its true  colors in the diabolical actions that its members take to absolve  themselves of any responsibility for Ewing's death. <br />There is saving  grace to the horrors of the actions at the college found in two students,  Shawn Jakes and Mark Jessy who are charged with leading the Student Review  Board, which has responsibility for reviewing the death.<br />While the  fraternity brothers and the Dean are not at all worried about the Student  Review, complication after complication occurs as the investigation  proceeds.<br />Ultimately and at great odds, justice is finally served as the  story winds down. We are rocked from the depths of evil to the refreshing  integrity of two college students whose lives are literally at great  risk.<br />Readers and reviewers have had mixed reactions to The Pledge. While  I might agree that it could have been pared down by probably more than a  hundred pages, the story is indeed gripping for those willing to stick with  the story. <br />As a reader, Kean tapped into an enormous range of emotions  that don't usually surface in most things I read. <br />I believe those who  enjoy a good mystery and undaunted by a long one will enjoy The Pledge.  Some bumps and wrong turns here and there. However, Kean does a fine job in  his first work. He will undoubtedly develop as an important writer. A  following is definitely in Rob Kean's future if he continues to work as  hard as he has in crafting The Pledge!	2000-07-22
US	51631879	R2NO7R7N5XYDHO	0553579606	14890872	Ashes to Ashes: A Novel (Sam Kovac and Nikki Liska)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Not for Night Time Reading	Tami Hoag's Ashes to Ashes certainly deserves the widespread readership it has been enjoying. Hoag, no stranger to the mystery story with seven earlier works in publication, absolutely deserves the attention she has  received for her latest work. <br />Set in Minneapolis, the story revolves  around the investigation of an apparent serial killer that has mutilated  and burned at least three victims as the story opens. While the first two  deaths were investigated without the alarm surrounding a serial murderer,  the third woman is thought to be the daughter of local multi-millionaire,  Peter Bondurant.<br />At his daughter's disappearance, Bondurant sounds the  alarm for action by calling his many connections, including the Director of  the FBI.<br />A worthy cast of Minneapolis Police officers steps up to the  plate to investigate the murders, along with two central players, Kate  Conlan, a victim's advocate and John Quinn, FBI Special Agent.<br />Much of  the story revolves around many exciting twists and turns the investigation  takes. We are treated to the mind of the killer with periodic asides into  his thinking about the case. <br />While the story keeps the reader on the  edge of one's seat, there is also some worthwhile unrelated goings-on in  the rekindling of love by Conlan and Quinn who know each other from an  earlier life.<br />Hoag doesn't just provide us the pat simple conclusion to  Ashes. Instead, the hunt for the killer winds down in a series of  surprising and completely unexpected ways. Highly recommended. A true  thriller from start to finish!	2000-07-22
US	51631879	RBATIBYO4W94	0312209096	793079587	Skeleton Key	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Always A Pleasure	This is the fiftheenth Jane Haddam/Gregor Demarkian mystery I have read. I can't get enough of them. Unfortunately Haddam seems to be writing on a slower schedule these days and the wait is always kind of a trial. I don't  make a visit to the bookstore without checking the mystery section under  Haddam.<br />Skeleton Key is a wondferfully involved page turner that Haddam  is well known for. Even when I have the sense that Gregor now had the  solution to the mystery, I still can't figure it out.<br />Jane Haddam is a  wonderful mystery writer for a newcomer who can't get enough. After the  first one, there are fourteen more ... almost all in paperback. Well worth  my devotion.	2000-05-11
US	51631879	RHIWC1YATEEA	0805059555	181097130	"O" Is for Outlaw	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Kinsey Does It Again!	The hardest part of being a Sue Grafton fan is the wait between books. Of course while I wish they could arrive a little faster, yet, I realize a well written mystery takes time.<br />Grafton is excellent in O Is for Outlaw.  For the first time we learn something about her ex-husband and find her  once again on an adverturesome whodunit' that keeps us reading. She's a  master of her craft!	1999-10-20
US	51631879	RW2GDY84EDX5A	0385313632	495286249	Hard Time (V.I. Warshawski Novels)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	I'll Forgive Her But She Better Not Abandon VI Again!	It's nice to finally have VI Warshawski back on the mystery scene. I'm sure it's a challenge for an author to stick with one genre year after year but VI had become such a central figure on the mystery scene that I was  really angry with Paretsky for leaving her out of the picture for several  years now. <br />VI is in top form in Hard Time. Things have changed as we  learn her relationship with Murray is much strained as a result of the  takeover of the leading Chicago news outlets since her last book. Mr.  Contreras is still looking out for her and VI is still getting herself into  hot water with the local police. Yet, as usual, she prevails. A great  return. Let's have more VI on a regular basis now that Paretsky has  experimented with a couple of other writing genres for the past few years!  VI reigns!	1999-10-20
US	51631879	R3D0IX1WB0DHRJ	082451677X	620287711	Henri Nouwen: A Restless Seeking for God	Books	1	13	15	N	N	The Most Disappointing Biography of All	The author, an acknowledged friend of Henri Nouwen, suggests in his preface that he took a researcher's more objective approach to writing about Nouwen than writing from his personal knowledge of the man as friend.  This is the poorest approaach anyone could choose. If I were a friend who  was writing a biography about another friend, there is absolutely no  question that I would write the story from my personal interactions than  from research. I must say that this book, as a result of the very  \\"academic, distant and studious\\" road the writer took to write  it, is extremely poor. That it was published at all is quite  disappointing.    \\"Plastic statutary on paper pulp\\"! Don't bother.  Check out Michael Ford's excellent narrative published this year. It's an  honest, well researched, close-up of Nouwen's life that does justcie to the  man Henri was.    James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	1999-09-24
US	51631879	R247RQJ3XNXNC8	0345429397	190870366	Savage Spawn: Reflections on Violent Children (Library of Contemporary Thought)	Books	4	47	52	N	N	A Very Readable Introduction to Childhood Violence	Jonathan Kellerman, best known for his psychological fiction is actually a highly qualified child psychologist.<br />In the non-fiction examination of Violence in Children or &quot;Savage Spawn&quot; as Kellerman titles his  work, readers are offered a no nonsense overview of some of the salient  issues at play when discussing the contribuors to childhood  violence.<br />Having worked with Juvenile Delinquent Adolescents in a  residential treatment center for five years of my career, I feel that I  have some good insights into the issues Kellerman addresses. Kellerman is  appropriately realistic in the need to acknowledge that there is no  causation that can be attributed to only nature or only nurture in the  causation of male childhood violence. He believes, and I agree, that we  have to factor both of these causative contributors together in order to  get some insight into violence in kids.<br />I am reluctant to be particularly  ready to dismiss the psychiatric role in the prevention and treatment of  violence through the treatment of faulty neurotransmitters in the brain.  The reality is that millions of people have been helped by the new class of  drugs known as SSRI's.  Further, Jonathan Kellerman's truly subjective bias  against the psychiatric profession on a wholesale scale is somewhat  inappropriate on a professional level and actually inaccurate when  dismissed completely in the extent in which Kellerman takes his argument.  <br />Interestingly or perhaps more ironically, Kellerman is an obvious  supporter of treatment of kids with the drug Ritalin -- a psychiatric drug  -- which is particularly controversial, certainly overprescribed and  questionably effective in a large majority of cases of children under its  influence. However, Kellerman has clearly recommended this drug for many of  his young patients and often cites his observations of its effectiveness.  <br />I support Kellerman's practical advice that what we do not need to see  are blue ribboncommissions to study childhood violence. He accurately  represents the fact that much is known about problems in children and  monies could be better utilized in direct education for kids and even more  importantly, parents. We don't need to wait for violence to intervene with  children. Early intervention when warning signs are obvious is a very  realistic and far underutilized approach to preventing the escalation of  patterns of violence in children.<br />There is much to be said for  Kellerman's points about family environments which indirectly give children  a poor culture for the development of appropriate values. In working with  Juvenile Offenders, I often found that the healthiest members of a kid's  family was the kid himself -- the one who got into trouble and was removed  from the home! They got out of extremely dysfunctional situations that  aren't always apparent to the casual observer. My own experience with  troubled kids left me with far more empathy for them and an often  overwhelming impatience -- even anger -- with their families, particularly  parents or parent who seemed to be more immature that their adolescent  sons. <br />Kellerman makes some excellent points about the availability of  guns to kids and is again quite pragmatic in rejecting convoluted arguments  about the &quot;right to bear arms&quot; and the NRA. He simply states he  believes guns should not be available or accessible to children until a  reasonable age -- similar to our approach to driver's licenses and alcohol.  Five and Six year old kids should not be around guns! And, sadly, too  often, they are!<br />Kellerman does an excellent job of explaining the  difference between psychotic behavior and psychopathology (the primary  group considered to be the main perpetrators of the most heinous crimes.)  Offically known in the psychiatric profession as those suffering from  Antisocial Personality Disorder in the DSMIV, or earlier as Sociopathology,  Kellerman makes a strong case that it is in this group we find our most  serious offenders. He effectively characterizes sub-sets or types of  psychopaths and recognizes that there is indeed such a thing as  &quot;evil.&quot;<br />I believe Kellerman becomes unnessarily caught up in  briefly citing statistical analyses of childhoood violence. However, boiled  down, he makes his point that we can't simply accept one causative factor  in seeking the roots of violence.<br />I was extremely disappointed that  Kellerman failed to address effects of suburban, homogeneous living, and  its potential danger for kids, nor the entire -- very important area -- of  low self esteem as causative contributors to childhood violence.  <br />Kellerman also fails to discuss the impact of the peer violence in the  vebal and physical abuse suffered at the hands of peers by those kids who  were &quot;different&quot; or issues of the unacceptability of difference  of any kind -- behavioral, interests, sexuality, etc. -- and the violence  too often present in the peer pressure which lets the kid who is -- in any  way different --  know that he is a &quot;reject&quot; or &quot;freak&quot;  in the eyes of his peer age group. Aren't some of these kinds of issues  extremely significant in the ignition of unexpected retaliatiatory  violence. We witnessed some of this type of retaliation in the  selectiveness with which the two killers in the Columbine massacre chose  who was to live and who they wanted to see dead. Intolerance of difference  is often a message clearly delivered in varying forms of violence -- mostly  verbal, not atypically verbal, but also commonly physical.<br />Overall, I  believe Kellerman's text is a worthy brief overview of some of the major  areas to be covered in really examining and learning more about how we  should anticipate and prevent violence in children. He provides a very fine  bibliography for the interested person who wishess to go beyond his 120  page work on this very urgent and real problem in our country at the close  of this century.	1999-07-17
US	51631879	R35X6R69D4720X	038549372X	422219355	The Wounded Prophet: A portrait of Henri J.M. Nouwen	Books	5	31	33	N	N	An Outstanding Honest Portrait of Henri Nouwen the Man	This is the most outstanding biography of Henri Nouwen written to date. Ford did a wonderful job in researching Nouwen's life and in being honest about his discoveries.<br />There was never any question in my own mind of the gifts which Henri Nouwen offered to his readers as a direct result of his  own personal human-ness; his own imperfections -- his woundedness. The  first biography publised by Nouwen's friend from Holland was extremely  poor. It was the perfect little boy grows up to be perfect and prophetic  saint story. The author of that work indicates he set aside his personal  knoweldge of Nouwen for the sake of greater objectivity. I believe the best  thing a friend undertaking a biography can do is tell the story of the  person they knew well. <br />Ford through his interviews truly captures the  special nature of Henri Nouwen as a man, a psychologist, a theologian, a  priest and writer. He tells the story of the Wounded Henri -- esentially  the story Henri told us in his own works -- most especially in From Anguish  to Freedom to private journal Nouwen kept while in treatment which he  allowed to be published the year he died.<br />The human Henri, in his own  quest for centeredness, in his own flawed manner, wrote of themes which  seem somewhat universal to the human condition. Michael Ford captures this  Henri and reveals the genesis of much of his gifted writings.<br />I would  recommend this book, Robert Durback's revised &quot;Nou&quot;wen  Reader&quot;, Nouwen's own &quot;Wounded Healer&quot; and From  &quot;Anguish to Freedom&quot; as the four and most amazing portraits of  the true Henri.<br />It's a shame that editors kept him on a tight reign when  he wanted to be more honest in his writings later in life. To hear Henri  speak of his own struggles is a gift we mostly indirectly get a glimpse of  in his books. Michael Ford's work gives a wonderful background of the  complete Nouwen.<br />Henri Nouwen was an inspiration to me throughout most of  my adult life. He continues to be so in his death. His woundedness only  adds to my appreciation of his willingness to write and to share.<br />I  believe Nouwen will be eventually considered a very significant  spiritualist in more years to come as people re-read his works with new  eyes and a whole new audience is able to have the opportunity learn about  this gifted man in future years. <br />In his death, whie far too young,  Nouwen has much to teach us through his written word and through the  post-humous work he leaves us in his writings now being widely  re-published.<br />I am confident that Nouwen is now im the embrace of the  Father in Heaven and has finally found true peace and love in his death. He  needs to search no longer.<br />An outstanding, honest and depthful coverage  of the life and struggles of a contemporary holy man.<br />Highly recommeded!	1999-07-12
US	51631879	R3M7POWOCJNNE8	0385319673	247672694	Red Dragon	Books	1	1	15	N	N	Mildly Interesting	While I pursued this book to have read the full trilogy that involves Hannibal Lecter, I was seriously disappointed. While a partially interesting story, it is nothing outstanding. The thing that makes me angry  is that this book has been marketed in the last two months as a &quot;must  read&quot; so that you'll meet Hannibal Lecter the first time he was  introduced. Lecter is marginal to this story and takes up a miniscule  portion of the book. I believe it is unfair to be less that truthful to  readers in preparing the marketing campaign for Hannibal (June 1999  publication.) This 1981 first is nothing in comparison to Harris' follow-up  &quot;Silence of the Lambs&quot; -- truly a classic. <br />Disappointed  overall!	1999-06-16
US	51631879	R1E6XGFY2K8WKG	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not Silence But An Engaging Read	It's amazing what a pre-publication marketing effort can do to sell a book without a review! For the past two or three months, &quot;Hannibal is Coming&quot; (kind of like the &quot;Jaws&quot; ads &quot;Just when you  thought it was safe to go back in the water...&quot;) has been seen  everywhere -- bookstores, web sites, etc. In the meantime, big pitches were  made to sell &quot;Silence of the Lambs&quot; and &quot;Red Dragon&quot;. I  wouldn't be surprised that this has been one of the most successful  marketing strategies employed in recent bookselling history.<br />To the book:  It's an interesting read. I generally feel it's very unfair to compare a  new book in a series where characters continue from a previous one. Our  favorite book is likely never to reappear again in any series, so we really  shouldn't go looking for it in a new book. I believe readers are better  served by enjoying the merits of each story as it stands alone.<br />Harris  writes an engaging book (Why it took over ten years is beyond me.) While a  slow start and some disconnected pieces here and there, the book does  indeed move into a gripping mode. However, the ending is just downright  ridiculous. I was angry as I ended Hannibal -- about the last ten  pages.<br /> &quot;Silence of the Lambs&quot; will stand as the  best among the three for all time. This ranks second and Red Dragon is a  forget-about-it.<br />Enjoyable if you take it as a stand alone story. A bit  frustrating at the very close.	1999-06-16
US	51631879	R387DN5BRS21B9	0312195265	247672694	The Silence of the Lambs	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Truly Powerful and Disturbing	Since I had only seen the film and not read the original text, I decided that in anticipation of Hannibal (June 1999) that I would go back and read the first two -- Red Dragon and Silence.<br />I found the book to be truly  spellbinding. Interestingly, this is one of the few books that the movie  has been extremely faithful to depicting as written.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed  the two principal characters Hanibal Lecter and Clarice Starling. I look  forward to Hannibal!	1999-06-16
US	51631879	R2TUVJ445US8TQ	0684849119	874944457	Front Row at the White House: My Life and Times	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A Truly Unique Witness to History!	I believe it is near impossible to read this fascinating book and not come away with a tremendous admiration for Helen Thomas. Approaching 80 years young, Thomas continues to cover the White House as Dean of the White House  Press Corps, and Chief White House Correspondent for United Press  International (UPI). Thomas has covered the White House since the early  days of the Kennedy administration. She has been daily witness to history  in the making through her daily presence at the White House, or on travels  with the President of the United States.Over the terms of eight U.S.  Presidents, Thomas has clearly proven herself to be a fair, credible, and  objective representative of the news media. Although \\"news\\" has  increasingly become a cut-throat, opportunistic, money grubbing industry,  Helen Thomas seems to have maintained perspective. She seems to be a  principled, fair, yet uncompromising human being in an arena that is  generally more interested in \\"scoops,\\" \\"ratings\\" and  \\"sensationalism.\\" In her faithfulness to the finest tenets of her  vocation, Thomas works hard to report \\"without a personal spin.\\"  While she has reported everything from the most boring and mundane -- to  some of the most critical events in history -- Thomas appears to have done  so in all fairness and with a minimum of personal bias.  Titled in  reference to the front row seat she occupies at the White House during  press briefings, Thomas, despite often unflattering reports; albeit fairly  represented, appears to have earned the respect of almost every President  she has ever covered. In this retrospective, she is able to acknowledge her  own flaws and limitations. As a woman who has earned the esteem she has,  Helen somehow has remained at heart, a fair and humble reporter. \\"What  you see is who she is\\" to turn a phrase. Yet, it is equally important  to note that Thomas' objectivity and fairmindedness has never made her a  soft reporter or a pushover. Thomas is indeed a feisty, hardworking, often  impatient and intolerant human being. She is not satisfied with lies and  attempts to obfuscate the truth. She can quite obviously be annoyingly in  her singleminded quest for the the bottom line of a story. In addition,  Thomas possesses an innate nose for anything less than full disclosure. She  will pursue a story until she has a true read on it -- without a thought to  whose nose she may put out of joint in the process.In \\"Front  Row\\", Thomas puts aside her usual objectivity and shares many of her  long held personal views of the men who have occupied the Office of the  President of the United States, their spouses and the staff who have  surrounded them. Her account is a fascinating portrait of the strengths and  weaknesses of each administration she has witnessed. I indeed hope that  some of those whom Thomas has mentored -- directly or indirectly -- have  taken her lessons to heart and brought their learnings into their work. In  an era when the news media is often -- justifiably -- under attack, it  would serve the entire industry well to read Thomas' book and to study her  career more closely. If there were more reporters practicing their calling  with the level of integrity which Thomas has consistently demonstrated, the  American people would have far more faith in the the news media. I hope  Helen Thomas carries on, and that her colleagues and the Presidents she  reports on, learn a few more lessons from her. An outstanding read!   James J. Maloney  Saint Paul, Minnesota USA	1999-05-11
US	51631879	R25AM90LHM7I3L	0609603930	183754374	Uncovering Clinton: A Reporter's Story	Books	5	5	8	N	N	MONICA, GEORGE AND MICHAEL - THEY CAN'T ALL BE WRONG!	After a reluctant saturation with Clinton through reading &quot;The Starr Report,&quot; &quot;Monica's Story&quot;, and then George Stephanopolous', &quot;All Too Human,&quot; I was even more hesitant to pick up another book  on the White House or politcs. Nonetheless, I came across  &quot;Uncovering...&quot; and somehow found I still needed to learn more  about the scandals of the Clinton Presidency and to understand the man who  serves as our President better... so I bought Michael Isikoff's book.  <br />Isikoff did an excellent job of clearly providing a fascinating backdrop  to the last few years of the Clinton administration and life as we were  forced to live it through the media across America. <br />&quot;Uncovering  Clinton&quot; provides a context better even than the excellent, &quot;All  Too Human,&quot; since George was on the 'inside' for some of the time and  then completely 'out of the loop' when no longer of use to the Clinton's.  Michael Isikoff is able to provide another point of view, that of  &quot;outsider,&quot; a reporter close to the various stories of Clinton's  misdeeds throughout the entire &quot;show's&quot; run.<br />What is clear, and  candidly admitted by Isikoff himself, is how vulnerable even the press can  be in the various sneaky efforts, from every corner of the country, at  being targets for manipulation. <br />Michael was made carefully cultivated  and increasingly made 'privy' to a lot of detail by Lucianne Goldberg and  Linda Tripp -- with now extremely apparent self-interest. In addition,  through a lot information directed towad Isikoff by &quot;undisclosed  sources&quot; -- meaning officially for the record, but with the guarantee  to the source that their identity would not be known public (again with an  array of agenda to push,) he was able to gain a fairly objective sense of  truth, outright lies, gross exaggerations, political slander, and just  plain garbage. As a result of fairly careful and objectively selective  evaluation, Michael was able to understand the crux of the real story, the  real truth about the 'Clinton saga.'<br />Isikoff was essentially a very close  witness to the incidious and despicable plans and strategies aimed at both  &quot;un-doing&quot; Bill Clinton, as well as those directed toward his  protection..<br />As a reporter for the highly regarded &quot;Newsweek,&quot;  and  previously for The Washington Post, Michael Isikoff is no virgin to  Washington highjinks. Yet, he clearly endeavors to take the high road of  maintaining journalistic integrity in the midst of deceitful and  calculating people. I applaud him for this and hope that he never loses  this standard of high expectation and objectivity. Nonetheless, there were  clear attempts coming from every end of the spectrum of Clinton fans and  foes to feed him what they wanted to see in print.<br />It has never been more  clear to me how significant it is for the printed word to be regarded as  fact and truth. Everyone hoped Isikoff would &quot;bite&quot; and get their  version &quot;out&quot; -- the way they wanted it viewed. Fortunately,  Michael is a careful reporter and his editors, even more careful; they  perhaps suspiciously so. I believe that the editors themselves were  compliciters in allowing other media venues to mis-shape the Clinton story  by repeated refusal to run Isikoff's work in advance of others. The fact  that the net-based DRUDGE REPORT caused them to spring -- finally! -- into  publication mode is terribly sad. I believe they overlooked the fact that  they had an extremely capable and objective reporter working for them, and  other than to check out any legal issues and other protective matters for  the paper, they themselves continually delayed and postponed the reportage  of some of the best and most objective investigation that was going on --  by one of their own. <br />I came away from this story realizing that once  more -- perhaps even more vividly so -- the contempt I have for the likes  of Kenneth Starr, Luicianne Goldberg and Linda Tripp. No, I don't think too  highly of the President's behavior; I'm not bowled over by the 'Monica  Lewinsky As Used, Innocent Pawn'yarn, yet the true scandal in the history  of the Clinton White House over the last two years was the disgusting  behavior of the likes of the three individuals mentioned, and their  'backers' and 'boosters.'<br />The whole thing should make Americans fearful  of the power we invest in 'special interest groups,' do-good 'legal  foundations' and the politics of Washington, D.C. in general. Never should  another Special Prosceutor be invested with the power and limitless  resources which were made available to Kenneth Starr. Starr is clearly a  clinically obsessive meglomaniac at work -- with an agenda! <br />Despite his  personal behavior, I don't know how Bill Clinton has done as well as he has  serving as President of this country under the microscope of a Kenneth  Starr all these years and people with the motives not unlike those of  organized crime's 'hit men,' circulating throughout the orbit of the White  House.<br />A carefully detailed timeline of the whole story as it became  known -- as distinct from what shaped it, and how and when it was  intensively reported from every angle for at least fourteen intensive  months when &quot;it was the only news.&quot; <br />An excellent piece on  these last few years covering the White House when every American was  continuously bombarded with every thought, word, attribution, analysis and  subterfuge known to man. It well compliments the works by Stephanopolous  and Morton (Monica's Story;) all worthwhile reads.	1999-05-04
US	51631879	R3G0GG3K41ASWN	0446523402	367594357	The Last Victim: A True-Life Journey into the Mind of the Serial Killer	Books	5	5	10	N	N	A Truly Unique Learning Experience On Serial Killers	&Ograve;The Last Victim&Oacute; is a chilling account of an 18 year-olds foray into the dark world of the serial killer during his freshman year in college. Jason Moss, Las Vegas native and UNLV freshman, (at the time he pursued this  tango with evil) is the author of this retrospective narrative of his odd  pursuits, written with  assistance from well regarded psychotherapist and  author, Dr. Jeffrey Kottler. Its now going on six years since Moss spent  an entire academic year obsessively pursuing personal contacts with serial  killers. His ostensible motivation at the time: basic curiosity -- a not so  uncommon desire to understand what kind of human being turns out to be a  serial killer, and the invincible sense of bravura many 18 year old guys  demonstrate in being their own man -- essentially, experimenting with their  own developmental formation of an individual personal identity. Jason  elected an unusually strange path through which to pursue some of his  developmental needs in electing to study the serial killer through direct  contact, posing as potential victim. Yet, we as his readers are the  beneficiaries of his strange and even fascinating adventure. Jason himself  also learned some interesting lessons and got more than he might have ever  expected in the way of going through the rite of passage to  adulthood.<br />Moss elected this non-school project in his first week of  college, almost upon a whim. Once he has a plan clearly worked out in his  mind, despite the lack of much support from friends and loved ones, Moss  begins the process of letter-writing. Self-admittedly, Jasons stated  desire to befriend these killers was actually his own form of  manipulative effort to learn about them and their own motivations as  individuals who had committed acts of the worst kind of evil -- the  repeated, often brutal theft of life from a very large number of people.  Moss directed his efforts toward notables such as  John Wayne Gacy - &Ograve;The  Killer Clown&Oacute;, Jeffrey Dahmer, Charles Manson and Richard  -&Ograve;The Night  Stalker&Oacute; - Ramirez,<br />Jason met with some amazing luck in his pursuits.  His killers each wrote back and, he was able to maintain a running  correspondence with each, to the extent he desired. Yet, this was no simple  coincidence, not simply dumb luck.<br />Jason was a careful student of each of  the killers to whom he intended to write. The letters werent simply, &Ograve;Hi!  Im Jason, Id like to be your friend and find out what makes you so  crazy!&Oacute; Obviously, such simplicity would have had no results whatsoever.  Instead, Jasons first attempt to contact each killer was endeavored only  after he had arduously learned as much as he could about the individual and  his crimes.<br />Moss care in preparation seemed to be his best asset to  gaining access to each of these criminals. Through his research, Jason  determined an approach he believed might best play to the interests he  thought the killers would be attracted by; essentially, he created designer  personalities for each killer, and wrote to them under his own name  -- in  the customized personality he had created for them. Each killer indeed  responded. Jasons care in chronicling each story of himself -- even down  to the clothing he was wearing -- painstaking though it obviously was --  allowed him to maintain the personality he had created for each of his  contacts. This allowed Moss to maintain a consistency in his letters that  managed to steer him clear of eliciting suspicion on the part of the  killers. His care at maintaining a consistent personality kept them  engaged. This approach alone is admirable, especially when you consider an  18 old approaching research with the care that often comes only with years  of practice.<br />John Wayne Gacy was Jasons first and most lasting serial  killer - college freshman friendship he experienced throughout most of  this bizarre journey. Moss hadhundreds of different kinds of contact with  Gacy and as a result, Gacy is the one killer covered most extensively  throughout the book. While Jason may have set out at play-acting for  information, his best and most lasting exposure to true evil was brought to  him by Gacy as well.<br />While Jason believed himself to be extremely clear  about his motivations, believed himself fixed in his own ability to remain  in control of these friendships and able to maintain his own personal  boundaries, he admittedly proved to himself, in a most harrowing way, that  he was an absolute amateur when put up against a brilliant, manipulative  psychopath like Gacy.<br />Jasons relationships with Gacy went beyond  letters, to the his sending photographs as well, to the evolution of weekly  telephone calls from death row, to an even more complicated twist of  allowing Gacy to believe he had also befriended Jasons brother. As a  result of this complication, Jason needed to write two sets of ongoing  letters to Gacy, from two different frames of mind -- his own imagined  persona, and the image he wished to present of his brother. Ultimately, and  at tremendously unexpected peril, Jason visited Gacy in prison for two  extended days, approximately a month before Gacys execution.<br />What Moss  did, at the age at which he did it, and the results he realized in the  degree of information he was able to learn firsthand from each of his  contacts, are clearly the most fascinating elements of this book. &Ograve;The Last  Victim&Oacute; is an absolute page turner! Its easy to become so engrossed in the  story that it becomes hard to put down.<br />I personally experienced an  entire range of thought and emotion in reading Jasons retelling of his  sojourn into darkness. Jason story initially starts me off wondering about  his motives, his own stability and identity. I then began to find myself  admiring his tenacity and the care he took in approaching the task at hand.  I was fascinated at the responses he received from the killers. There was  some amusement at the idiocy of some of Gacys more primitive efforts to  entertain his own sexual fantasies in his letters to Jason. On another  tangent, I found myself on a rollercoaster ride from laughter to empathy at  Jasons reactions to Gacys sexually explicit letters, and his own awkward  efforts to write back knowledgeably, about activities he was completely  unfamiliar with. At one point Jason hires a male hustler &Ograve;just to talk&Oacute;  about what he does so that he could learn more about how to respond to  Gacy. While the hustler didnt believe Jasons motives or interests for a  minute, I believe Jason was truly sincere. He was at an absolute loss on  how to respond to graphic and often sadistic gay sex. He made his best  efforts to truly enter into places, often frightening and completely  unfamiliar to himself, in order to do justice to his overall project.<br />The meetings with Gacy were completely unlike Jasons expectations and  what Gacy reduced Jason to during these two long days was absolutely  chilling. It is here that we are offered a close-up of the hypnotic,  ever-changing Jekyl and Hyde, which Gacy certainly was. It is here that  Jason discovered everything he felt intellectually confident of was deeply  threatened. Gacy had the upper hand and Jason was fortunate to get away  without a sexual or physically dangerous encounter with John Wayne Gacy. It  is soon after these two encounters and Gacys execution closely following,  that Jason closed down his research project.<br />I certainly dont recommend  this kind of research as a means to learn about the extreme ends of the  spectrum of psychopathology. In fact, I would discourage readers from  trying this out as a new hobby. Yet, thats not my decision for Jason or  his readers. I believe that even Moss recognizes that he got far more than  he ever wanted out of this undertaking and not all of it was personally  rewarding.<br />An excellent addition to true crime literature with a useful  foreword and conclusion by noted psychologist, Dr. Jeffrey Kottler. While  Jason was extremely careful in crafting his story within his own comfort  zone. I believe this was prudent in light of his topic, his firsthand  experiences and the broad audience which may find interest in this book. I  do hope however, that Jason is able to come to a better place with respect  to his own need to &Ograve;be in control&Oacute; and to set aside his seemingly constant  distrust of people in general. While indeed there are serial killers on the  loose, and people who are inauthentic, they are at the extremes of the  normal population, and significantly fewer than most people in this world.  Theres too much in life we cant control and too much of life to miss when  we assume an ongoing defensiveness in dealing with the people who cross our  paths throughout our lives. Indeed in openness there is risk, yet for the  most part, without risk there is little reward in the wonder of encounters  we have the opportunity to experience with other human beings!illers. There was  some amusement at the idiocy of some of Gacys more primitive efforts to  entertain his own sexual fantasies in his letters to Jason. On another  tangent, I found myself on a rollercoaster ride from laughter to empathy at  Jasons reactions to Gacys sexually explicit letters, and his own awkward  efforts to write back knowledgeably, about activities he was completely  unfamiliar with. At one point Jason hires a male hustler just to talk  about what he does so that he could learn more about how to respond to  Gacy. While the hustler didnt believe Jasons motives or interests for a  minute, I believe Jason was truly sincere. He was at an absolute loss on  how to respond to graphic and often sadistic gay sex. He made his best  efforts to truly enter into places, often frightening and completely  unfamiliar to himself, in order to do justice to his overall project.  <br />The meetings with Gacy were completely unlike Jasons expectations and  what Gacy reduced Jason to during these two long days was absolutely  chilling. It is here that we are offered a close-up of the hypnotic,  ever-changing Jekyl and Hyde, which Gacy certainly was. It is here that  Jason discovered everything he felt intellectually confident of was deeply  threatened. Gacy had the upper hand and Jason was fortunate to get away  without a sexual or physically dangerous encounter with John Wayne Gacy. It  is soon after these two encounters and Gacys execution closely following,  that Jason closed down his research project. <br />I certainly dont recommend  this kind of research as a means to learn about the extreme ends of the  spectrum of psychopathology. In fact, I would discourage readers from  trying this out as a new hobby. Yet, thats not my decision for Jason or  his readers. I believe that even Moss recognizes that he got far more than  he ever wanted out of this undertaking and not all of it was personally  rewarding.<br />An excellent addition to true crimeliterature with a useful  foreword and conclusion by noted psychologist, Dr. Jeffrey Kottler. While  Jason was extremely careful in crafting his story within his own comfort  zone. I believe this was prudent in light of his topic, his firsthand  experiences and the broad audience which may find interest in this book. I  do hope however, that Jason is able to come to a better place with respect  to his own need to be in control and to set aside his seemingly constant  distrust of people in general. While indeed there are serial killers on the  loose, and people who are inauthentic, they are at the extremes of the  normal population, and significantly fewer than most people in this world.  Theres too much in life we cant control and too much of life to miss when  we assume an ongoing defensiveness in dealing with the people who cross our  paths throughout our lives. Indeed in openness there is risk, yet for the  most part, without risk there is little reward in the wonder of encounters  we have the opportunity to experience with other human beings!	1999-04-27
US	51631879	R35HFSSUIYOXAP	037550155X	185548081	The Handyman: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Lifechanges Gifted To Ordinary People By An Itinerant Artist	I'm not quite sure what drew me to this book, not only examine it in the bookstore, but to then buy it and then quickly consume it in the course of a few days.I know that I found it lyrically simple and compelling. It is a  storyof holiness cloaked in ordinary deeds and unconscious acts of  kindness.<br />Carolyn See has created a character In Robert Hampton who while  seeming to be a down and out painter, has a remarkable ability in his role  of handyman to bring a a completely unconscious and remarkably simple  selflessness that has a kind of curative effect on the many unhappy people  he encounters in the course of his odd-job life. <br />While he himself  doesn't have much self esteem and doesn't see himself as doing anything  remarkably well, his ability to lift people out of their own wreckage  toward a kind of path of salvation is his captivating gift -- perhaps it is  his 'artistry'.<br />There is an element of the Jesus story retold in See's  work. Her futuristic grant proposal prepared after her character's odd job  life portrays him as a critically acclaimed 'artist' who went unrecognized  in the latter years of the twentieth century. There is a  &quot;testament&quot; quality to the proposal -- much as we read the  seeminly unremarkable things which Christ did while he walked on earth in  human form in the New Testament. For this reader, See's work brings me to  ask myself whether I would know Christ if he entered my life today in some  gentle and seemingly unimportant way. I'm not sure these parallels were  intended by the author, yet, clearly, this is an inspirational and mystical  story.<br />There is another piece of inspiration in this story for me  personally. We don't have to do great things to make a difference in this  world; instead, he need to realize the potential greatness of small acts of  kindness, charity and an ability to transcend our own often myopic  worlds.<br />However I brought this book home, I'm really glad I did. It  continues toresonate through my mind after a few weeks since I've read it!  There is something truly special in See's 'failed artist.'<br />A great read!	1999-04-06
US	51631879	R1LTNG8TCQVZ61	0380758369	604894435	Payment in Kind	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Jance Does It Again!	J.A. Jance's &quot;Payment in Kind&quot; is a great story. Again featuring one of the author's main protagonists, J.P. Beaumont, Jance weaves a spellnbinding trail that keeps the reader on edge and suspecting almost all  of the characters in the story at one point or another; just as you are  absolutely sure you know who did it -- you discover it wasn't them! Keeps  you moving to the very last chapter. <br />One of the finest mystery writers  today; a wonderful charcter (literally and figuratively) in Beaumont!	1999-04-06
US	51631879	R3F1FVNMGLUYN6	0380758377	439155020	Without Due Process	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Beaumont Tracks Internally -- Police Corruption!	When a really well liked police officer known as &quot;Gentle Ben&quot; is brutally murdered in his own home, along with everyone else in his family, but one small child who was in hiding, homicide detective J.P Beaumont  takes it hard. He also takes on the case. JP smells cover up but it takes  him a while to untangle himself from the forces within the department who  are part of the cover-up to get to the bottom of things. Needless to say,  JP manages to exonerate Ben and implicate quite a few others!. Author J.A.  Jance through JP, succeeds intaking the reader on an intriguing and scary  trail of internal subterfuge.<br />Beaumont is one of Jance's continuing  characters and despite all of his idiosyncracies, and his whining, you just  can't help but get to love him. He's also a great detective. Jance has led  JP through many episodes at this point and I've yet to be let down!	1999-04-06
US	51631879	R3L2TZYVEZHGL5	034537536X	334108134	Show of Evil	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Better Than Primal Fear! And That Was Good!!!	William Diehl's follow up to Primal Fear, Show of Evil is even better than the first. Diehl has worked much harder at providing background, tying strings of information together, explaining strategy and showing Martin  Vail as a more seasoned, less egotistical, lawyer than he was in the the  story set ten years earlier. Interesting commentary on the justice system  throughout and very good discussion on the &quot;theatre of the  courtroom&quot; as one of the valuable sidelights. Jane Veneable, Abel  Stenner and a few of the characters remain from Primal Fear -- foremost  among them, the frightening Aaron Stampler aka/aka... Great book! Diehl  should continue using Martin Vail and Jane Veneable as ongoing characters.	1999-04-06
US	51631879	R3V1B5CWPGVIQT	0316929190	838798147	All Too Human: A Political Education	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Painful Lessons In Unexpected Places	In 'All Too Human,' George Stephanopoulos tells his story of his experience with Bill and Hillary Clinton from the campaign through the first four years Bill Clinton was in office.<br />I was impressed with  Stephanopoulos' honesty and balance in telling this story. Some of what  George witnessed firsthand and the merurial manner in which he was treated  by the Clintons could have been written with justifiable anger and  sensationalism. Yet, from my perspective, George took the high road. He  doesn't blame anyone for the painful lessons which he learned by being  knocked around over five years.<br />Stephanopolous clearly entered the  Clinton campaign as an idealistic young man who truly wanted to participate  in the betterment of our country; in the improvement of our world. I think  Bill Clinton also believed in this ideal; in fact he still belives in it.  It is indeed a noble cause to embark upon. Considering the fact that George  was just slightly over 30 years old when he was thrust into the public eye  following a victorious campaign, his sense of mission and its purity were  probably one of his greatest obstacles. No one wants to have their hopes  dashed -- in some cases his were trampled on.George probably was stretched  and forced to grow more in the five years he was working with the Clintons  than he might ever have to again in his life. <br />Stephanopolous has titled  his work very accurately -- 'All Too Human.' -- Despite idealism and an  invincible sense of 'can do' and a feeling of being a part of one of the  most important endeavors anyone could ever associate themselves with,  George learned that idealism when interwoven with human nature is most  often bound for heartbreak.<br />The Clintons' changeable and unpredictable  treatment of George -- particularly by Hilary -- is frightening. It would  drive anyone to the borders of paranoia -- of the non-psychiatric kind type  -- and would esily bring a person to the very margins of fear and the  expectation of doom. <br />Both Clintons use people as disposable commodities  (a repeated theme throughout their political lives.) No one has this right  to 'play on other people's insecurities, self worth and vulnerabilities.'  Yet, the Clintons seem to believe you just buy more George's the way you  might buy toilet paper. To his credit, George doesn't do them in with what  might be considered justified fury.as represented in his narrative.  Instead, he simply tells the story of his time in the White House and lets  the reader form their own opinions.He is a gentleman who was used and  abused by each Clinton. They certainly don't look pretty. Yet, it's quite  apparent that George doesn't regret his time with the Clinton's or chafe  about his hard won growth and the road that led him to a stronger hold on  the imperfections of humanity. He faults himself where was at fault. He  wouldn't trade in the experience despite its failure to live up to his  dreams.<br />People often stay in abusive relationships far too long. George  had enough reserve strength to leave before he was damaged beyond  repair.<br />This isn't just George's story, it's a thorough journalistic  effort reflecting the political world and the failings of human beings with  that world.<br />I'm glad George survived and addressed his problems. I'm glad  he had the courage to leave. I do not doubt that he was loyal to, Bill and  Hilay, perhaps absurdly so.. His sun rose and set around the Clinton's for  five years, George's life was clearly changed by the experinces he had --  hopefully bringing him out the other side to a seemingly healthier place..  The maxim &quot;what doesn't kill us makes us stronger' certainly applies  to George Stephanopoulos.  <br />Frigtening, Fascinating, Complex and indeed,  'All Too Human.' We probably can't espect much better! <br />Likely one of the  best political writings on the Clinton administrstion to date.<br />Thanks  George! You are indeed a good human being!	1999-04-01
US	51631879	R4FLW5LS8ZJGO	0061094129	746809256	Legal Tender (Rosato & Associates Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Rich Believable Story	In attorney Bennie Rosato we have a strong woman who is able to keep pace with the likes of Kay Scarpetta (great character who is Patricia Cornwell's best creation yet one we are seeing with decreasing visibility as the  author tries to develop a new set of characters that just don't measure up  to Kay), V.I Warshawski (a great character whom author Sarah Paretsky seems  to have abandoned to strange stylistic experimentation), and of course,  Kinsey Milhone, the A-N (so far) series by writer Sue Grafton.Rosato is a  tough attorney with values, a point of view, and a wonderful sense of  determination. Loved it. Leave some of your other characters behind and  write more about Bennie!She's wonderfully engaging.	1999-03-31
US	51631879	R34U8Y84ZXVX7O	0385332866	175778980	Vulgar Favors: Andrew Cunanan, Gianni Versace and the Largest Failed Manhunt in U.S. History	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	A Well Researched Recount of the Andrew Cunanan Story	Maureen Orth was involved in following Andrew Cunanan's blood trail early on when writing for Vanity Fair. The limitation on her at the time was that Vanity Fair is a monthly publication and much took place in between  issues.    Here in Vulgar Favors, Orth embarks on a careful research  journey, to find out, and report as accurately as possible, what took  place. Her research is extremely extensive. The book is highly readable and  interesting.    There are limitations to Orth's work however. To some extent  because of their selfish demands for money for information, Orth did not  speak to those who knew Andrew quite well who would only speak for money.  The closed closet doors of a number of gay men who knew Andrew also placed  a handicap on Orth.     Orth does a very fine job of reporting on the lives  of the victims yet, her ability to capture what drove Andrew is neglected.  I believe Orth could have made much more extensive use of psychologists and  crime profilers to provide some better insight into what broke down in  Andrew's life to drive him in the direction he ultimately went.    Orth's  praise for the Minneapolis Police Department, particularly one officer, is  highly questionable. While the officer may now have gone out of his way to  be helpful to the author, he didn't do a very good job of being responsive  to clear and accurate investigation of the crime at the time it took place  and his approach to the sensitivity of the families of the victims, with  one exception, has been described as almost savage-like. He might have  served this case better during the investigation than the historical  recounting where his own self interests in cooperation might, perhaps in  his mind, mitigate his poor performance at the time of the investigation. I  believe Orth was blinded by his cooperativeness and didn't objectively  examine his motivations toward helpfulness at this point.     Orth's  reporting clearly points out a need for the criminal justice system togear  up for crimes that take place in varios locales. The possessiveness and  territoriality of police departments in the witholding of infomation and  even material evidence is a sad statement on those departments. Their  actions dramatically slowed a speedier investigation than took place. If  the FBI is charged with all interstate crime, they need to become much more  assertive with respect to their authority and must establish some protocol  that all police jurisdictions must follow in order to assist them. The FBI  didn't seem particularly interested in this case until Versace was  murdered. An interesting statement in itself. The question is why? The FBI  might do its own post-mortem on how it handled this case so that a similar  performance does not reoccur.    Another major issue we see repeating itself  which Orth accurately reports is the media problem. Clearly, in today's  world, anything that has a drama about it seems to bring out the worst in  print journalists and in television reporters. Reporting is often less  interested in the facts that why plays best as hype. Orth appropriately  points out the problems that a highly competitive 24 hour a day news  business has created.     Journalism needs to take a hard look at itself and  decide what is ethical and appropriate behavior. Their treatment of this  story over the three months it took place was a competition for headline  grabbing and the implication that one reporter knew more than others. Much  of what they ultimately reported was simply gossip and speculation. This is  a continuing problem as has been demonstrated in the news industry's  treatment of the Menendez trials, the Simpson trial, Princess Diana's death  and most recently in the Ken Starr, Monica Lewinsky and Bill Clinton  debacle. There is an urgency for the news industry to bring about change  within itself. Americans are tired of the hype and the continuous partial  and often inaccurate coverage of important events going on in ourcountry.  Editors need to be a little more sparing with what they leave out in the  interest of creating that hype! It's often what's cut that is integral to  not drawing the wrong conclusions and in allowing the public to get a truly  accurate picture of what is known and what is speculative as it takes  place. Sound bites and headlines are not the stuff of good news industry  coverage.     Overall, Orth does a very fine job. She clearly became  personally engaged by the events of this American tragedy. She is a  well-researched writer who is quite honest about the limitations of what  she was able to uncover. She also indicates what she is left not knowing. I  think this is the very best and most honest approach the author could have  taken in fairly represeting the sad events of the late Spring and Summer of  1997. A fine read -- given the quickly closed case and what may have been  left out by those unwilling to speak to the author.	1999-03-31
US	51631879	R1P44CAZXVIFSG	0060187476	384682637	Mistaken Identity	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Brassy Attorney; A Well Laid Out Story!	The combination of personality Lisa Scottoline brings to attorney Bennie Rosato and the intrigue of the story makes this a truly engaging read. Rosato feels like a person you know, or would like to have as a friend. In  this particular Rosato adventure, Scottoline portrays an intricate scam  that a convict plays on Rosato in order to get her to take the case -- a  story that she is her long separated twin sister. The story has some  wonderful curves and twists to keep one engaged and we are able to view a  very human attorney -- with feelings and convictions -- attempt to do her  best with what she learns.A wonderful read that just absorbed me. Rosato is  a great character, my favorite among Scottoline's and I hope to read more  on her!	1999-03-31
US	51631879	R21EUSWKS1SBL	0380751380	777587766	Trial by Fury (J. P. Beaumont Mysteries, No. 3) (J. P. Beaumont Novel)	Books	5	48	48	N	N	LEADING BASKETBALL COACH MURDERED -- BUT BY WHOM?	A unknown black male is found heaped in a dumpster. J.P. Beaumont is on the case. Through a series of connections, Beaumont figures out who the man is: a leading high school basketball coach who just lost at the finals  before he was murdered.Jance presents us with an entire array of suspects  and they keep us interested and reading well into the night. Yet, there are  definitely deadends, as promising though they may have first seemed, an  interesting and distant wife who isn't laying her cards on the table, some  racial issues bring cause for consideration of certain suspects, an angry  father is brought into the mix and we just don't know whodunit until the  very final pages -- yet with almost no clues, somewhere around a third of  the way through the book, the reader may start to find their gut leading  them in an unlikely direction. Gut reactions sometimes tell us a whole  lot.Beaumont is entirely likeable and human. This is no supercop who is  spit shined and blemish free. Beaumont's life is his job; other than that,  things are a mishmash. He drinks too much at times, he has many life  regrets, he doesn't get the respect he should get from his peers -- and  yet, he remains true to his work, and of course, triumphs!A great  character. Certainly a favorite among J.A. Jance readers.Really enjoyable,  eminently readable mystery, as it should be... despite the lost sleep that  may come with opening the cover!A Definite Winner!	1999-03-08
US	51631879	R1U5YI1ZP9F0NG	0316765929	929487867	The Emergency Room: Lives Saved and Lost - Doctors Tell Their Stories	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Quick Fascinating Glimpses of Emergency Room Docs	Some twenty doctors offer stories of their times in their life when they served in the ER. Some quite touching; others brutal -- not just in the cases which presented themselves but also in the behavior of some of the  doctors.One conclusion that I can't help to realize is that the &quot;old  boy's way&quot; of completing ridiculous on-call hours is inhumane and  should be changed and changed quickly. The impairment -- emotional and  physical -- that many of these doctors suffered as a result of the length  of their on-call hours caused some of them to treat patients abusively,  perhaps even criminal. One doctor speaks of an uncooperative patient who  needs stitches. Since he's tired and has no patience left, the doctor  solved the contentious patient problem by threatening him and sewing his  ears to the rails of the ER treatment bed while he proceeded to stitch the  man's head.Interesting reading; provides a broad range of points of view --  professional -- speaking of their experience, challenges and downright  blunders. Each story is very short and this is a great book to keep by the  bedside to complete a bit at a time.Worth a look!	1999-02-23
US	51631879	RG3NIYC8NSSHP	0061096644	861222021	Underboss	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A Captivating Read	While I can't say that I admire Sammy Gravano -- his behavior for most of his life was reprehensible, -- I have to give him credit for calling a spade a spade. In this captivating true life story, Gravano describes his  growing up as a tough kid and becoming a &quot;made man&quot; over time,  only to go on to becoming &quot;Underboss&quot; of the Gambino Crime Family  with John Gotti.Sammy tells his story with a thoroughness that seems to  indicate he finally wants to come clean. Certainly turning &quot;state's  evidence&quot; against Gotti and many other significant underworld crime  figures was a matter of self preservation (likely literally his life), yet  Gravano presents himself as a person with a strong degree of loyalty and  honor -- despite the horror of &quot;the life&quot; and his part in it.  John Gotti certainly doesn't come across very well in this account of how  Gotti Became Godfather. Basically, a low-life, who's likely chances of  becoming the Boss were slim to none, he kills his way to the top and proves  himself to be an egotistical low class bum who actually believe's he's  untouchable and attractive to 'his public'. An absolutely disgusting human  being who belongs where he is -- in jail for life with no chance for  parole. His prodigy has ended up in the same situation and his stupidity  was so ridiculously blatant that it bordered on 'the gang that couldn't  shoot straight.' May they enjoy their life 'on vacation!'Gravano served  time so his helping as state's witness didn't wipe away everything, yet he  makes a tremendous sacrifice in going in this direction -- including the  loss of his wife and children. In the long run, perhaps there is a thread  of hope and redemption in Gravano's decision; hopefully, he's living a  decent life totally different than his past.An excellent narrative of the  last two decades of New York's Organized Crime Families.Peter Maas does an  excellent job of weaving the story together. As a result, it's a fast andfascinating read.Good luck Gravano -- where-ever you are!	1999-02-23
US	51631879	R3LBKYE6TW8UNT	039914465X	361016626	Southern Cross	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Finally I Have Grown To Like Cornwell's Alternate Series	In the first diversion which Patricia Cornwell took from my favorite Kay Scarpetta, I was too angry that Cornwell was changing characters that I couldn't be fair about the new characters of Hammer, West and  Brazil.<br />Ultimately, in reflecting for some time on the change, it occurs  to me that it's not fair to expect a writer to remain creative if locked  into one particular character. I was asking the writer in Patrica Cornwell  to lock herself into Scarpetta and get them out to me as fast as I could  read them. I realize this is an truly unfair expectation.<br />Having sorted  through this I approached Southern Cross with a very different attitude.  This time I was open to the change.<br />I think the book is a truly excellent  one. Unlike the standard formula for a typical suspence/mystery novel,  Cornwell has three very strong characters, yet because of the town of  Charlotte's closemindedness about &quot;outsiders coming in to run their  police department,&quot; they are really placed in a no-win situation.  Withoout Cornwell pulling some spectacular changes in Charlotte's police  force, the story and the characters of Hammer, West and Brazil prove  themselves to be highly professional but none is an absolute heroine or  hero.<br />This story is really about crime, people's closeminded attitude  toward change and outsiders and most importantly -- it is a brilliant story  which captures the the plight of marginalized youth in our society.<br />We  all need to belong! Abraham Maslow places it on his order of needs toward  self actualization just above the very basic of the basics -- essentially  right after the need to eat and have our other physical needs met. In  adolescence, particurly those who fall outside the standard  &quot;groups&quot; of acceptable groups, those less popular kids will go to  great lengths to belong to something/anything. As a result, they are  extremely vulnerable to &quot;outlaw&quot; groups. In Southern Cross, a  vulnerable artisticand intelligent kid isn't particularly attractive or a  part of a group. He is preyed upon by a small group of lowlifes who  consider themselves a gang. They offer him membership -- belongiing. Yet,  their intention is one which is not to increase their enrollmeht but to use  him in their schemes, thieving and eventually turning to killing. The young  man while desperately wanting belong is intelligent enough to realize that  belonging comes at too high a price. It costs him his ability to express  himself artistically, to attend school where art classes are extremely  important to him and where participation in the matching band is a true  souce of self esteem for him.<br />While he goes along for a while, Andy  Brazil catches wise to his possible membership in the gang. <br />In addition  to his gang membership, artistic and musical avenues are important to self  esteem. He is also a hidden computer wizard who manages to break into the  police web site and lock up the data base all over the world. His only  intention was to give local police some help in locating where there is  gang trouble.<br />The boy eventually is able to choose the avenues he  believes are in his best interest -- his art and music. He comes to  understand the fact that belonging's not worth the loss of what is far more  productive. If there is a main protagonist, it is this young man -- not  Hammer, West and Brazil which would a traditional route (and a safe route  for another writer to take so to write on the &quot;safe  side&quot;.)<br />Cornwell's storytelling abilites are masterful. The reader  experiences highly successful police leaders from Richmond become  frustrated and humbled by the &quot;no outsiders wanted&quot; passive  aggressive behavior they experience in Carlotte. Yet they keep at it,  humbly but notq defeated. The grand change them envisioned is completely  unrealitc.<br />Having worked with hard core delinquent adolescents for five  years, I know that not enough is written about why adolescents become  involved in &quot;belonging through crimal avenues.&quot; As we see crime  rates, particularly among kids rise throughout the ountry and conservative  policies and financial restraints moving away from &quot;treatment&quot;  toward &quot;punishment,&quot;this story is particularly timely. In  Cornwell's story, there are many issues to consider. Ultimately, I believe  the unexpected progtagonist makes the righ choices and he comes away as a  more confident, highly moral young man.<br />Cornwell has taken a challenging  topic with deep social im excellent yet different than usual and tried and  true suspense mystery.Yet despite deep thought, social justice iessues, a  sensitivity is apparent and a jam-packed social policy issues jammped  through the story. Get job Patricia! Keep Hammer, West and Brazil coming.  Just don't forget about Kay. She has lots to do yet too!	1999-01-28
US	51631879	R2O0JXT3SF7LN0	0312146892	877583353	My Worst Date	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Miami View of Coming of Age Gay	An enjoyable read looking in on the life of an intelligent sixteen year old boy, Hugo, who discovers his sexuality while living in the South Beach area of Miami. There are some very bizarre developments in the story, yet, none are morbid or impossible. Actually, while reading as comical, much of  the book calls upon the reader to think through their personal points of  view on various issues.     Some good examination of the range of sexual  orientation (goood examples of degrees of hetero and homosexuality  concept.) Hugo and his friends are delightful. His mother is a wonderful  role model of a single parent who is mom and dad to her son without  hindering his freedom or being nosy or invasive. The most ambitiously  sexual character in the story is one that I could love or hate -- at least  I found myself running from one of those directions to the other throughout  my reading.     A fast, worthy and endearing read. Leddick should be commended for  his character development. There's a range of everyone and everything on  earth threaded in this story and the author makes each memorable. Go for  it!     P.S. The cover has nothing to do with the book.	1999-01-25
US	51631879	RHW4IKQSO6NXB	082451758X	87521609	Reluctant Dissenter: An Autobiography	Books	5	20	23	N	N	An Excellent Forthright Account of Leaving the Priesthood!	Rare is the explanation to be provided for anything bordering on the embarrassing for the Catholic Church. James Shannon was very much in the spotlight as an Auxilary Bishop in the Archdiocese of Saint Paul and  Minneapolis when he came to the painful conclusion that he could no longer  support some of the church's policies. With a healthy understanding of the  human need to live in consonance with one's personal belief for the sake of  self preservation, Shannon left the the diocese and the priesthood/bishopic  behind.Although &quot;a priest forever,&quot; Shannon went on to marry and  to live a richful life -- remaining faithfulto the primary elements of the  Catholic Church as 'the people in relationship to God and the example of  the very human Jesus.' instead of the often, seeming over-emphasis, of  Church as paternalistic institution functioning without much consideration  for the reality of human needs.Shannon was a highly respected Bishop and  his leaving was certainly a significant loss (and scandal) to the church.  So respected was this man, that after a short hiatus in New Mexico, he was  able to return to Minnesota and maintain a very visible and highly regarded  role as a foundation executive for three separate entitites. He did not  &quot;disappear&quot; as is the historically preferred avenue for visible  scars brought upon the face of the church.Shannon's story is well told. It  is an encounter with a man of tremendous integrity, an odd faithfulness to  his Church and a pragmatism that is admirable. He is most respectful of the  church and is clearly not a rabble rouser looking to spark change. He tells  his story as his own -- his decisions about life -- in relationship to  himself. While this could have easily been a diatribe against what he is  unable to support about church teaching, Shannon takes the high road and  goes out of his way to highlight his foundational love of the Catholic  Church.It's fairly obvious that if Shannon &quot;went along,&quot; he would  have gone far in the Church. Yet, his own self-integrity and mental health  were more important to him. The reader can't help but come to admire this  tremendous man who truly emanates the essence of the foundational elements  of what Church means -- the daily witness to the examples given to all  Christians through the story of Christ's life. A refreshing read from a man  of the utmost integrity! One can't help consider some very necessary  re-ordering of Church priorities as a result of this book. The loss of this  man we a true loss within the leadership of the Church.	1999-01-08
US	51631879	R2BRZ3CZI11WGU	0399143939	76871705	Trick of Light	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lots of Black and White Brought to Brilliant Color	The second of Hunt's Kay Farrow tales is in every way as good as his first. Although this story is quite different from Kay's first adventure, its is as fascinating as The Magician's Tale. Hunt continues with Kay  working several years after the first &quot;nights out with Kay.&quot; She  is still a freelance photographer -- shooting only in black and white. Kay  is colorblind and finds this medium to be her best, as she believes she  sees much more than the average person by not relying on color in the way  that most of us do -- and indeed she seems to. Her best work is done at  night as she develops a type of blindness in bright sunlight and tend to  almost completely avoid it.<br />Although not working on any photographic  story as engrossing as the prostitution scene Kay was documenting in her  first book, this story, focusing on the death of her elderly mentor, is  indeed one which quickly draws the reader in. Photography remains an  important element in the story, as it was in the first book and some of the  same very interesting characters/characters who were part of The Magician  return with Kay. <br />Another score for David Hunt in bringing a dark,  unnerving feeling to the entire story through the characters, night, the  black and white photography and the main premise of the story. Kay's a  wonderful protagonist as photographer cum detective!<br />Anothers soon,  please!	1998-11-24
US	51631879	R2VX1GZF0WFHCR	0156005883	664659280	The Least of These My Brethren: A Doctor's Story of Hope and Miracles in an Inner-City AIDS Ward	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Grace In Unexpected Places!	Dr. Daniel Baxter's chronicle of his daily routine as a physician in an AIDS ward at Saint Clare's Hospital in New York City, one of the poorest broken down and inadequate facilities truly serving the &quot;dregs of  humanity&quot; is one of the richest, most spiritual and compelling books I  have read in recent years. I finished this book and have kept it in my mind  in many weeks going over the truly profound truths and challenges Baxter  presents in his own story. The Least of My Brethren is a multifaceted,  complex chronicle that teaches far more than the most readers expect as  they begin any new non-fiction book. I was captivated by The Least of My  Brethren from the very start; awed by Baxter's ability to present an entire  range of issues, at times separately and yet, all at once in other  instances -- from the seemingly simple and unimportant  issue of how to get  a room cleaned up or a light bulb changed in a hospital with only the  leanest of support services, and in the next breath, to be speaking quite  articulately on issues such as AIDS, poverty, the tragedy and loneliness of  human beings who have no one left in life who have not abandoned them, to  the entire spectrum of human sexuality, to questions of philosophy of life  and the meaning of death and back again to the more mundane insignificance  of individuals, almost all terminally ill, breaking rules on smoking in  hospitals and in public places. Baxter presents a story that is as much  philosophy as it is medical science; as much sociology as it is gender  studies, as much psychology as it is political science. As one individual  reader, above everything else, Daniel Baxter's story was a moving, yet at  times, an inadvertently hysterically funny portrait of how little the  latest buildings and equipment really mean to medicine in comparison to the  need for a much rarer and seemingly more easily attainable achievement, the  enlistment of truly caring human beings. When Baxter speaks of caringpeople, he is not referring to those who show their care by donations to  charity or participation in clothing drives for the poor -- but &quot;down  and dirty&quot; caring in the midst of stink, the odor of death and the  scarcity of hope! This, one can conclude in reading Baxter's chronicle, is  a truly rare and precious giver of life -- not easily found. In some ways I  was shocked that truly caring human beings  are a preciously rare  commodity, yet the more I thought about the issue, I was able to  acknowledge how few people there are who are willing to transcend  themselves and give to others unconditionally -- while at the same time  having the courage to face the demon of hopeless straight in the eye and  prevail with hope. What Baxter brought squarely home to me were many  personal questions and issues I have need to address in my own life.  Whether it was Baxter indirectly asking me how much I appreciate the life I  have, for whatever time it is given to me, to his ability to bring me to  the realization that I have only marginally and clinically considered my  own mortality. Baxter keeps going with questions and challenges on the  importance of doing meaningful work in our lives to challenging me to  examine my own willingness to place myself in the midst of dirt and filth  and to be unaffected by it because the other person, far more needy than I,  needs my help in the midst of that personally discomforting squalor.  Finally, Daniel Baxter offers -- not by preaching -- but by his own  personal example, the very real and comprehensible answer as to why our  human behavior is so often paradoxical: that in order to conquer our fear,  in order to gain anything worthwhile, in order to truly transcend ourselves  for the good of others, we must become fearless, courageous, spirit-filled  and hopeful persons ourselves. And, how do we get to such a place? The  answer so obvious that we all actually know it, kept very close to our  human consciousness, but often within far enough a safety zone that we do  not have to necessarily respond: that is, in order to become stronger and  better persons, we must face down, touch and truly look, often for the very  first time, at what we find ourselves most afraid. In so doing, we become  stronger, more courageous and grace-filled persons. Indeed there seems to  be truth to the adage that what doesn't kill us, makes us stronger; for  it is proven out in the daily lives of many committed persons like Daniel  Baxter, Sister Pascal or the drag queens in ...Brethren, who come to  minister their sick friend up by decorating his room and applying his  make-up and dressing him in all his finery, in order to help him feel more  hopeful and comfortable. I finished Baxters book more fully understanding  myself,  my  own strengths, fears and weaknesses and biases. In addition, I  came away with new role models to help me to at least try to make some  changes for myself and to better understand the meaning of truly caring for  all with whom my path crosses in the course of this mysterious journey we  call life.A singular and outstanding read which should deserves much  attention!	1998-11-22
US	51631879	RKASANOOR953W	0060174056	221629816	The Tennis Partner	Books	4	48	50	N	N	An Excellent Look At Human Aloneness and Male Friendship	Abraham Verghese's second book, &quot;The Tennis Partner,&quot; is far different from his first, &quot;My Own Country,&quot; in which he chronicles his work in a rural area in Tennessee as the physician in a  &quot;one doctor town.&quot; An inordinate number of AIDS cases begin to  come his way and he tells the story of his learning quickly how to deal  with this challenging disease in an area with extremely limited resources.  (An outstanding read available through Amazon.)&quot;The Tennis  Partner&quot; begins with Verghese's arrival in San Antonio, Texas, with  his wife and two sons where has taken a new position as a Professor of  Medicine in a teaching hospital, a prestigious advance in his medical  career. Soon into the story, we learn that Verghese finds himself fairly  humanly bankrupt as he finally realizes the reality that his marriage is in  ruins and now ending due to his own neglect of his wife in the amount of  attention he has given to his career. He learns that he is extremely  rootless: a foreign born physician, in a new town, with no friendships or  personal support systems. Verghese, after assisting his wife establish a  new home and a create a sense of stability for his sons, begins to look for  an apartment near his wife's home so  that he can be near his sons and  complete the actual separation from his wife that they have been  essentially living for quite some time by this point. Verghese begins a  friendship with David, an intern in his final year (actually, we later  learn, that David is repeating his internship, due to drug addition having  interrupted his earlier, nearly completed internship.) There is a  similarity to Verghese's rootless and David's own. The intern, a bit older  than the typical medical school following a fairly successful run on the  professional tennis circuit. The heart of the story is the newly developing  friendship between the two men, the mutually rewarding relationship they  ultimately establish in co-mentoring each other; Verghese mentoring his  intern in medicine and David mentoring Abraham in improving his tennis  game. While sounding simplistic, as one reader, I enjoyed observing the  somewhat complex relationship that is rife with the the awkwardness and  clumsiness of two heterosexual men essentially creating a non-sexual love  and friendship that is a fundamental need that all men have. Verghese's  book very accurately mirrors the reality of men needing other men in their  lives for significant friendships and characterizes well, the complexity of  &quot;male bonding.&quot;The story doesn't have a particularly happy  ending, yet, it is a true story. It is an excellent documentation of the  need for, the high degrees of complexity, the platonic love men often  develop for one another, the degrees of petty rivalry and subtle  competition that often exist in men's friendships and the ultimate  limitations of any friendship - male or female.The &quot;tennis  element&quot; adds even more to the story for the person who is a tennis  fan but the tennis games and the medical mentoring the two men exchange  are, in many ways, metaphors of the manner in which male friendships  develop and volley from one side to the other, each holding high  expectations of the other, each contributing something to the other, yet  careful not to overwhelm the other -- often with one winning more than the  other as is the case in this story in both tennis and medicine. Verghese is  clearly an excellent physician who takes great interest in his patients and  uses his keen personal intuition as one of his best diagnostic tools. Yet,  Verghese's sensitivity, attentiveness and keen intuition seems to start and  stop at the hospital doors as he shows himself to be quite human in his  personal inadequacy, stilted personal development and in his normal human  incompleteness. David is equally complex, engaging at the same time he is  able be maintain his clear boundaries and keep a certain distance. Anexcellent and gripping story. Highly recommended!	1998-11-22
US	51631879	RYUADW0HKAZA4	0679742298	904783689	The Talented Mr. Ripley	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Totally Amoral Main Character Keeps You Riveted!	There is not very much to like about the character Tom Ripley. The amazing thing about Patricia Highsmith's writing is that she is able to engage you in the character's pathology to a degree which keeps you riveted to the  very last page.Tom Ripley, a twenty-four year old individual who has  accomplished very little with his life clearly is a self-centered human  being who belives that the world exists for him. In his own mind, the poor  upbringing Ripley has experienced at the hands of his aunt as a result of  both of his parents deaths in an accident explains (at least in his own  mind) his sense of entitlement to take what he can, to use others for his  personal gain and to be all but completely thoughtless in any sensitivity  for the consequences his selfishness inflicts upon others. The Talented Mr.  Ripley is the story of a young man fleeing his abusive aunt to New York to  find his fame and fortune. In short order, it apparent that he doesn't have  much going for him and life is no easy street.Ripley begins his sociopathic  behavior by cheating his employer soon after his arrival in New York. When  worried about getting caught, an opportunity comes along that will all him  an avenue to his own escape. Another young man, approximately his own age,  who Tom has met once or twice has moved to Sicily and decides he's not  coming home -- much to his wealthy father's dismay. In desperation to get  his son back to the States, the father seeks out anyone whom might have  been at all close to the boy. Somehow, he learns Ripley was known to have  been &quot;a friend&quot; to his son. Actually they know each other only  casually and in passing. Nonetheless Ripley picks up on the father's sense  of frustration and his deep desire to get his son home and offers to go to  Europe to speak to him. The father takes Tom up on this offer and sends him  on an all expenses paid journey to bring home the prodigal son.On arrival,  Ripley is not particularly welcomed by his &quot;old friend.&quot;  Eventually, through Ripley's use of his charm and cunning manages to gain a  new &quot;old friend.&quot; He comes to admire the life the young man  leads, the somewhat casual and comfortable lifestyle he leads and the plot  heightens as Ripley sets out to achieve this same lifestyle for himself --  at any cost and with no personal conscience to tether his behavior.  Committing one crime after another, Ripley prevails despite intense police  scutiny. In the end his sociopathic behavior fools everyone and Ripley ends  up getting exactly what he wants. Although I can't stand Tom Ripley, I  can't wait to get my hands on the next of the five Ripley mysteries which  Highsmith has penned. I recently read that The Talented Mr. Ripley is in  production as a film starring Matt Damon. Although a release date has not  yet been announced, I am anxious to see how Damon portrays Ripley. No  doubt, all booklovers will soon see and hear more and more about the Ripley  series which Highsmith began with this first in 1955. I expect to be  reading many more of Highsmith's long career as a mystery writer. Highly  recommended!d friend.&quot;  Eventually, through Ripley's use of his charm and cunning manages to gain a  new &quot;old friend.&quot; He comes to admire the life the young man  leads, the somewhat casual and comfortable lifestyle he leads and the plot  heightens as Ripley sets out to achieve this same lifestyle for himself --  at any cost and with no personal conscience to tether his behavior.  Committing one crime after another, Ripley prevails despite intense police  scutiny. In the end his sociopathic behavior fools everyone and Ripley ends  up getting exactly what he wants. Although I can't stand Tom Ripley, I  can't wait to get my hands on the next of the five Ripley mysteries which  Highsmith has penned. I recently read that The Talented Mr. Ripley is in  production as a film starring Matt Damon. Although a release date has not  yet been announced, I am anxious to see how Damon portrays Ripley. No  doubt, all booklovers will soon see and hear more and more about the Ripley  series which Highsmith began with this first in 1955. I expect to be  reading many more of Highsmith's long career as a mystery writer. Highly  recommended!	1998-11-20
US	51631879	R1VCMU9GPGKWRX	0060974060	859939862	Friday Night Lights: A Town, a Team, and a Dream	Books	5	1	7	N	N	A Fascinating True Life Story Which Teaches Much!	I read Friday Night Lights by Buzz Bissinger approximately three years ago. I have just re-read it after having finished &quot;Our Guys&quot; by Bernanrd Lefkowitz, the tragic tale of a town where the star football team  members rape a retarded woman and how it's dealt with (or perhaps more  accurately -- all but denied) by the town.Lights is a compelling read that  makes it easy to hang on to even if one isn't the greatest fan of football.  In reading a number of other reviews on this book, I view many of those as  defensive reactions from people of the town or from some who know people of  the town. This is sad because Lights isn't an indictment of Odessa, Texas.  It is EVERYTOWN, USA. There is a great deal of U.S. universality to the  story. Yes, one town was spotlighted. Often this is how we learn our  greatest lessons in life... by observing human behavior in one setting and  considering how it applies to ourselves and the places we live -- to our  little world.Bissinger didn't betray the citizens of Odessa. He was not an  &quot;undercover&quot; agent spying on them. The people of the town knew he  was a reporter; apparently quite a likeable one. Why they expected the  lionization of their town and their team as a result of the fact that the  reporter was a nice guy is beyond me. Bissinger has proven himself to be an  outstanding and objective observer of the culture of Odessa. And, while I  don't personally know him, he had nothing against Odessa as a town and  probably still doesn't (although he did receive death threats as a result  of the book so I don't if that has by now changed his view at  all.)Bissinger did what a good journalist does; he told the story of his  objective observations. Unfortunately, from this reader's perspective, not  a fun or loving or wonderful story. More accurately, I see Lights as a  tragic flaw in the culture of our country. When we take kids, encourage  them in what I consider one of the most violent sports we consider  legitimate, turn them in to &quot;legends&quot; -- albeit only temporarily  (while they're playing and winning), we collaborate in physical and  psychological damage to our young people. When it's over, most of them have  trouble putting it all in perspective -- some never do. They are forever  wandering looking for the exhiliration of the attention, the cheers, the  fans and the rush they experienced while a member of a winning football  team. That we allow this in the midst of one of the most sensitive and  critical periods in a human being's life -- adolescence -- makes it even  more dangerous, with greater psychological than even physical risk, in a  very physically dangerous sport.I tend to disagree with Bissinger that  Football became so important for almost every member of that small down  because of all that they had lost they needed something to hang on to.This  story is an upper, middle and lower class story. It is every town. It is  every high school and college that offers Football.I think the lessons we  need to consider as a result of this masterfully narrated story are deep  annd important ones. What should -- not what is -- be important to the  educational and socialization process for the young of our society. For me,  I've come to the conclusion that if we continue to allow Football to be  played in this country, we need to change the rules. We need to much more  intensively educate teachers, coaches, parents and kids themselves on  keeping the &quot;sport&quot; in proper perspective. I'm not personally  convinced it's doable. I have to conclude that while we have some nice  catchphrases to describe this sport (among others in the same category) and  its values -- teamwork, competition, physical fitness, working with others,  discipline etc... and on and on, IT'S ALWAYS GOING TO BE ABOUT WINNING.  After the &quot;win,&quot; I'm convinced there's a degree of cultural  addiction to the violence in this game. Go to any football game and watch  the fans instead of the game; any observer will see a very significant  number in attendance who are screaming for more aggression, more violence  -- and are taking some very significant psychological satisfaction from it.  Exactly what needs are being met in this vicarious manner likely depend on  the individual. Yet, what I have the most trouble with is a large majority  of our society meeting their own needs for aggression through small groups  of very vulnerable younger members of our society. This is unconscionable,  it in my personal view is deeply immoral. If we're looking for a better  human being in our generations to come, it might be well to consider how to  address issues of violence. That this is regulated violence makes no  difference at all. We can't keeping using kids to meet unmet needs that we  ourselves may have. This is a paricularly urgent lesson for parents. Far  too many parents are using/abusing/allowing their offssspring to be  physically and psychologically abused in order to try to relive their own  &quot;glory days&quot; or in trying to finally attain through their kids,  the heights, they themselves were unable to reach in their earlier lives  and now regret. We have names for this from the simple word scapegoating to  more complex psychological diagnoses called Munchaussen's by Proxy where a  disturbed individual uses someone else, quite often their own children, to  deliberately cause physical harm to as a result of their own deeply  disturbed self imaages. Maybe it's time to stop and consider education and  socialization a little more carefully and consider what's best for kids and  the society of tomorrow. I can only help but conclude that part of the  solution would involve immediately cutting Tackle Football, Ice Hockey,  Boxing and Competitive Weight Lifting. While there may be some ostensible  higher order of value to any of these sports, generally the realization of  that expected &quot;value&quot; is most often forsaken in the need to win,in the domination that occurs and with the more likely result of often  permanent physical and psychological damage -- both for men's and women's  teams.Thanks Bissinger, you've offered a real eye opener to any of your  readers that may work toward a better society for tomorrow. Outstanding!	1998-11-20
US	51631879	R2UN8AB1TY4X3J	0385333463	920654560	His Bright Light: The Story of Nick Traina	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A Bravely Told Story of One Mother's Unconditional Love	I had never read anything by Danielle Steele before this book about her son Nick. I picked this book up the New Arrivals section of the bookstore and started to thumb through it. Perhaps it was the shiny foil cover or the  beautiful smile of the young man on the cover that attracted me to it. In  reading the first few pages,I was quickly caught up in a story written by a  mother who had lost her son due to suicide, induced by a morphine overdose  -- directly attributable to non-compliance with needed medication to  balance manic-depressive disorder. Steele's story of her son Nick is a  mother's compassionate retelling of her child's life from birth to his  death at age of 19. Clearly a mother's assessment of her son cannot be  objective -- especially after the tragedy of his death. In light of this  reality, Steele's writing here it is in understandably skewed.While Nick  demanded a great deal of his mother from his early childhood onward because  of the many early behavioral problems he presented, Mom misread the signs.  It is apparent that Nick was his mother's favorite child. While not casting  blame in the way other reviewers so easily have because there is no  foolproof treatment and guarantee of success in treating manic depression,  in Danielle Steele's retelling of her son1s story, she inadvertently  indicates, how in so many ways, she overlooked a great deal of behavior  symptomatic of this disorder as &quot;cute&quot; or &quot;singular&quot; of  her Nick1s intelligence and giftedness.Only in reading his mom1s  retrospective as a more distant observer can I share my observation that  she misread and excused too much of Nick1s early behavior because of the  intensity of her love for him and the fact that for quite a long time, she  was a single mom raising a challenging son, with only the support of her  young daughter who loved Nick as much as his Mom did. Looking at the story  of Nick1s life now, I believe Steele could have done more earlier in Nick's  life to find out what was wrong. In the 1940's, Lithium - a natural salt  element, was accidentally discovered to be of help to those who suffered  from the extremes of mood we have come to call manic depressive disorder.  In the age of institutionalization as the primary manner in which disturbed  behavior was dealt with in the United States, it was only used  experimentally until finally being formally approved in 1970 as a drug  officially approved for the treatment of this disorder. Basically, it has  been commonly and successfully used since the early 701s to treat manic  depressive disorders -- years prior to Nick's birth and very commonly by  the time Nick was diagnosed, late in his childhood. Specialists, the very  best, probably could have interceded early to appropriately diagnose Nick  Traina1s disease. Treatment, education and therapy toward helping manic  depressives cope with their conditions were not uncommon psychiatric  sub-specialties by the time Nick was born and began to act out. Even when  Danielle Steele finally reaches the point of acknowledging that Nick1s  behavior was in need of outside attention -- even after he was finally  diagnosed correctly, it appears that only minimal efforts were made at  learning what the very best methods would have been which might have  increased Nick's chances of understanding and surviving -- perhaps even  thriving in spite of his disease. This is might be explained by the fact  that Steele faced a psychiatric disease in a loved one in a time -- which  continues to exist today -- where the thorough engagement in psychological  treatment for a loved one bears a great stigma. For a famous celebrity to  have this known may have even further contributed to Steele1s hesitancy to  intensively involve her son in extended inpatient psychiatric  treatment.While Steel correctly informs the reader that some 30% or more  Manic Depressives die tragically -- generally related to non-compliance  with medication, particularly when feeling well, she doesn't explain how  near 70% live, function and often excel. As a society, we have tremendous  lengths to go through in order to come to a better acceptance of and to  take the social stigma away from psychological disorders. We have made  tremendous strides in every other condition on the medical horizon, yet, we  continue to attach shame, embarrassment and a code of silence to that which  may be construed as the fault of upbringing or family values. There are  those who continue to believe in the fallacy of fault associated with  psychological disorders -- usually laid at the doorstep of parents.We have  learned incredible things about the brain in the last 30 years and have  developed medications that formerly kept individuals in mental institutions  for their entire lives. Each year, new research and new drugs come about  telling with far more certainty that almost every psychological disorder  has origins in the chemistry of the brain. Research physicians and members  of the professional psychological community working on brain research have  begun to isolate neurotransmitters and individual gene flaws which are  almost certainly responsible for various challenges which have  traditionally been stigmatized as caused by faulty upbringing, lack of self  discipline or by moral disorders. With many of the medications and  treatment strategies which have been developed, especially in the last ten  years, enormous strides have been made at virtually ameliorating the  challenges individuals with brain chemistry anomalies cost people in their  ability to function. Even further advances are soon expected as  experimentation with gene repair and even more advanced medications and  medication implants are expected on the horizon.Danielle Steele1s story is  indeed a tragic loss to her; one that I can never completely comprehend  having never stood in her shoes. Her loss was enormous. Her courage in  telling Nick1s and her own story is absolutely commendable. It is my hope  that her willingness to so forthrightly tell this story, rife with the  flaws of her own imperfect humanity, will be of help to another mother,  another family, or any individual who may be afflicted by this disease.  Thank you Danielle!	1998-11-20
US	51631879	R2W4Y3BS4NMWT7	0679452354	408123412	Still Me	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Sad and Courageous Journey Toward Unwanted Heroism	Anyone growing up during a time when the Superman movies were the towering box office successes they were, likely came to view Christopher Reeve as a hero. At least at the time, I did. My own view changed as I grew older and  realized that Christopher Reeve was just like everyone else and that my  original perception of him as a hero was one merely mistakenly made by  associating him with the fictional character he portrayed in those  movies.As Reeve's career evolved, I thought much less of him as an actor as  one movie or show after another was never on the par of the Superman  trilogy. News stories about him, particularly when he started living in New  York City, gave me the impression of that Reeve was far too impressed with  himself. I thought him to be snobbish and egotistical -- not particularly  attractive qualities in a person. Certainly not deserved based on his fame  as Superman.For the most part Reeve faded from my mind as anyone  significant in show business as time went on. Despite all this, when Reeve  fell from his horse over the Memorial Day weekend in 1995, I found myself  startled by the accident. 'How could this happen to Superman?' was my most  immediate reaction.My interest in Reeve continued following his initial and  the clearly double-edged miraculousness of his survival of the accident.  The pictures of him provided by the media sitting on the lawn of the  rehabilitation center in New Jersey left me saddened for a life, I quickly  assumed, was essentially &quot;lost.&quot; I couldn't, probably still  cannot, fathom the loss Christopher Reeve has experienced.When I saw his  book on the bookstore shelves, I quickly purchased a copy -- wanting to  know more. I felt a need to better understand this man and what he had gone  through.As I read Reeve's book. I experienced an entire range of emotions  from incredible sympathy for him, ultimately to arrive at a point where  this man, has earned, in at least my estimation, the status of  &quot;hero.&quot; What he has endured to earn such a descriptor continues  to be something beyond my complete ability to comprehend. This is a story  of a famous man, physically active -- perhaps to the extreme -- being  suddenly and literally felled and paralyzed to the point of near complete  incapacitation and a transition from a very independent person to one who  now must live with a total dependence on others. It is a story that tells  the reader of Reeve's understandable questioning whether life was really  worth living any longer. In context, a totally appropriate dilemma. I  somehow believe it would be easier to comprehend the conclusion as a  negative one than that which Christopher Reeve has arrived at. Yes! Yes to  life -- no matter the challenges he must live with and the manner in which  his former life has been so irrevocably changed.In telling his story, I  come to better understand probably what I earlier misunderstood about him.  Christopher Reeve is a highly sensitive human being -- &quot;not the man of  steel&quot; -- and what I mistook for snobbishness and for egotism were  really his manner of attempting to distance himself from life in the face  of a camera at all times -- whether on or off stage. The distance I misread  seems now more likely Reeve's somewhat reserved manner, his sensitivity,  his intelligence and a significant introspectiveness that he did not wish  to share with everyone.Reeve's story is at once reluctant (the very private  sensitive man trying desperately to continue to maintain some degree of his  privacy,) yet ultimately brutally honest -- right down to the manner by  which his bowels are moved. Yet this time, despite sounding somewhat  clinical at times, Christopher Reeve, the sensitive, intelligent, feeling  human being, comes loudly through. His courage, love of family, humility  and gratitude speak to the reader even during those times when he attempts  to retreat to the protective cover of distance and intellectualism. This is  the story of a man who has gone through every range of emotion on the  continuum. It is the story of feelings sweeping back and forth across the  pendulum between hope and despair. Ultimately, Reeve cannot in any way  disguise that through the bad days, the times of anger, the challenges of  such tremendous dependency, that He Chooses Life -- a life that he wants to  do as much with as possible, for the sake of himself, his family and quite  importantly, for other people who are less visible or fortunate, who face  the same kinds of injury and live an even greater challenge than he does  because they do not have the financial means for the kind of paid support  he is able to acquire. Ultimately, this is the story of one human being,  who's life has done a 360 degree turn through a freak accident. That human  being, Christopher Reeve, makes the choice in the aftermath to take the  journey on the road he never would have chosen given a choice. And, it is  clear, it will be a life lived to the very best of his ability. This is  indeed a hero's story -- even though it is a heroism I am certain  Christopher Reeve would have bypassed in less than a second if given a  choice -- as would I and I am sure every other reader. As I concluded the  book, while tremendously inspired by Christopher Reeve and his family, I  closed the back cover lost in my own introspection. How much a fragile gift  my life is... questioning whether I respect and am regularly enough  conscious and respectful of that life, it's fragility and it's gift. In  light of Christopher Reeve's story, I much more appreciate, that I must  make better efforts at gratitude and focused living in order to be much  more respectful of all that I have been given, as fragile as it may be.  There is a sense that I, just as Christopher Reeve, have no idea what the  next second of my existence will bring so I better make the best of this  one. Thank you Chris for sharing a story where you clearly would have  preferred notto be the teller. Thank you for your example of choosing to  live life on the terms it is granted to you, rather than on those that you  perhaps once believed you could dictate. Thank you for reminding me that  these are the very things I must be mindful of as I take life as it comes.  May I always have enough respect for my God to answer his challenges in the  courageous way you have!	1998-11-14
US	51631879	RD43IORS8MPWQ	0375702695	519535131	Our Guys	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The Tragedy of Lionizing High School and College Sports	This is a tragically true story of a young retarded woman in New Jersey who is raped by the \\"stars\\" of the town's football team. Some place in every high school curriculum, this book should be on a required reading list and it should be followed up by some serious discussion of the ethical issues presented in this true account of tragedy. If there is truth to the notion of teachable moments in life, there are many to be found in this book that could benefit every educator, student, parent and community member in this country.I would like to say that Bernard Lefkowitz did an outstanding job researching and preparing to write this compellingly true story. Six stars for Lefkowitz' courage and hard work!!! I well imagine he has received death threats as a result of this outstanding and socially significant book. As far as the reality of this documentary, it is a sad indictment of how we \\"talk the talk\\" of the ideals of secondary school athletics (and seemingly even worse, intercollegiate athletics), yet, we frequently fail to \\"walk the walk\\" to make sure that sports are complementary to the educational process and not of primary importance \\"in and of themselves\\" in an individual high school, college or community as a whole.We can look anywhere in this country -- certainly not just in New Jersey where this tragedy takes place and we can observe a twisted and sometimes seeminly pathologically sub-conscious agenda in the support of athletics. Sadly, I have witnessed this most often in the parents of athletes.At the end of this book, I couldn't help but feeling angry and sad about the whole story -- for the victim especially but also for the \\"star\\" rapists who had been misguided and used by their parents and their community.Probably more disgusting than the crime itself is the manner in which many members of this New Jersey community tried to minimize what occured by trying to avoid facing the truth about the dangers we create in the idolization of \\"high school jocks\\". While so many efforts have been made to improve athletics in the context of academics, there are still some sports that I believe tend to ultimately endanger the physical and emotional well being of kids because of some need their schools and towns have for winning teams and high school \\"heros.\\"Typical American communities seem to have a tremendous need for winning teams -- most often in Football, increasingly Hockey and of course, Basketball. I mention these three because in my observation, they are often the sports that seem to bring out some of the worst traits in young people.In order of objectified and sanctioned \\"violence,\\" I have to indict the first two, football and hockey, as among the worst.They are among the most finacially costly for schools to offer and beyond the violence, seem to demand the largest slice of the athletic department's funding. From equipment, to stadiums and rinks, they also have the highest liability insurance rates -- because more kids get physically hurt participating in these two sports than in any other sports that schools can offer. These \\"costs\\" don't even measure the potential for \\"emotional damage\\" that lots of former athletes suffer after their \\"stardom\\" ends.Yes, I understand the ideals of team play, of self discipline and all of the supposed positives of these two sports, I just don't buy it!I have observed first hand too much sanctioned violence on the field and in the stands to believe these sports stands the test of their supposed value. Most sadly, parents are often those screaming loudest for blood -- encouraging their sons and now their daughters to \\"hurt\\" the opposition. Supposedly there is no \\"checking\\" allowed in women's hockey. Watch a game; they'll take the two minute penalty over the regulation!The more violence, the more excited the fans seem to grow -- Is this something we want to encourage in the young men and women of our society? Some parents seem to be living out their own unmet dreams for themselves now somehow attainable only through their kids' victories. And to what end?The winners get to be \\"untouchable stars\\" that basically can do no wrong. That's the case I believe Lefkowitz makes most clearly in this outrageous documentary of violence permitted because of adolescent celebrity. Yes, the perpetrators finally received some consequences but in my estimation, far too little was done, far too late! And, I wonder whether anything has changed in that town?This book is a tremendous companion to one which Buzz Bizzinger wrote called \\"Friday Night Lights\\", about a town in Odessa, Texas where the entire community comes out for Football like zealots. While nothing as tragic takes place in ... Lights, as in \\"Our Guys\\", what is really clear in both books is how much we cheat kids by making them believe in themselves as \\"heros\\" at 16, 17 and 18 years of age -- only for them yet to realize that there's lots left to learn about life and at the end of high school, the star fades when they have outlived their \\"usefulness\\" and they're just an ordinary Joe or Jane who can't figure out what happened.Too often some of these \\"stars\\" never get over it and have lots of trouble comprehending how to move on in life in a positive manner. Lefkowitz has presented an outstanding work which documents a serious issue every parent, community member and educator needs to think a lot about. Without some lessons taken from Bernard Lefkowitz'tragic story, our society will certainly continue to fail our kids in helping them to develop a healthy, realistic and balanced sense of themselves and their place and tremendous potential for the greater good of our world. Let's not lose kids in early or late adolescence to the despair many now seem to experience when they realize the sun has set on their \\"stardom\\"!	1998-11-11
