US	51633735	R25ED550036UF0	0312422601	636052637	Blue Latitudes: Boldly Going Where Captain Cook Has Gone Before	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Entertaining Telling of the Adventures of Captain James Cook	I don't know anything, and acknowledging this often works to my advantage. For example, I am able to choose my reading material by what is discounted. The expanse of my ignorance is boundless, so the odds are good that the sale bin will always harbor some book that can annex a little new information for my benefit. One such example is Blue Latitudes by Tony Horwitz. All I that knew of the adventures of Captain Cook aboard the Endeavor and the Resolution was what I had gleaned from the meager tags associated with public museum exhibits here and there -- and secondarily from having seen Mutiny on the Bounty. Blue Latitudes helped me fill in a lot of the other details. <br /> <br />This is a somewhat Brysonesque telling of James Cook's travels. The narration oscillates between Cook's story and Horwitz's own visits to some of the same places: Tahiti, Tonga, Fiji, Niue, Hawaii, Alaska, Australia, New Zealand, etc. The author presents an interesting mix of history and contemporary travelogue and critique that blurs the line betwixt a scholarly monograph and infotainment. Horwitz's format may make this book more accessible to a broader sample of readers than a drier, more academic exposition would be. <br /> <br />I am no Cook historian, so I am in no position to judge the rigor of the author's research and presentation. From where I am sitting, this is a big, dense book, well-indexed, and it has satisfied my interest in Cook for a while. More often than not, books of this type send me to a follow-up source, but that is not the case with Blue Latitudes. Horwitz, as a former foreign correspondent, seems to have covered all the angles quite well. What I am not so sure about is the authenticity of the conversations that Horwitz reports with those he meets at various Cook-related localities. Everywhere that Tony Horwitz and his buddies go there are philosophers -- museum curators, bartenders, bikers and idle loiters -- who not only seem to know all about Cook but that have given the man and his travels enough thought to have applied what they have learned to their own lives. It's as though everyone the author talked to is a Jeopardy contestant! Not being able to believe these stories somewhat detracted from their enjoyment (but only a little). <br /> <br />If you want to learn a lot about the Tale of Captain Cook, including the titillating details of his crews contacts with lusty locals (nudge nudge wink wink) and be entertained by humorous stories of the frustration of contemporary travel, then I think you will like Blue Latitudes by Tony Horwitz. I am looking forward to other Horwitz books making it to the bargain bin. <br /> <br />P.S. More of the story about the contentious arrow alleged to be made from Cook's bone can be found by visiting the web site of the Captain Cook Society, mentioned in the book.	2005-09-18
US	51633735	RAUZ898UTXMPK	1843302888	607284464	Zambia & Victoria Falls Travel Map (Globetrotter Travel Map)	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Not the best of what is available	While early in the planning stages for a recent trip to Zambia, I purchased the Zambia & Victoria Falls Travel Map bundled with International Travel Map's Zambia Map; I also purchased Chris McIntyre's Bradt Zambia Guide. I quickly abandoned this insufficiently detailed map as it offered nothing that was not provided by the other map or McIntyre's book. <br /> <br />This map is unnecessary given those other resources. I recommend setting aside the money that you would have spent on this map and spending it in Livingstone on some beautiful curios.	2005-08-07
US	51633735	R3PPQTYXRYEY5N	0921463839	811361291	Zambia Map (Travel Reference Map)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Best Map I Could Find	While early in the planning stages for a recent expedition to Zambia, I purchased this map bundled with the Zambia & Victorial Falls Travel Map (Globetrotter Maps). The Zambia Map by Treaty Oak is clearly superior, and makes the other map unnecessary -- I have since lost my copy of the latter and I don't miss it. <br /> <br />The Zambia Map came with me to Zambia as we drove around the country. It provides little local detail -- Chris McIntyre's Zambia guide is good for that, but it is generally accurate with regard to road conditions (which range from pristine pavement to rutted tyre tracks) and provides the kind of big picture scope that is necessary when driving from Chipata to Lusaka or Mkushi to Livingstone. <br /> <br />The main flaw of the Zambia Map is that it under-reports the availability of services in various towns. The map has symbols for camping, petrol, and ATMs, but I constantly found those things to be more available than the chart suggested. This leads to a bit of \\"wolf crying\\". For example, the map shows no petrol in Samfya (the nearest marked petrol is in Mansa), and I had to arrange two jerry cans to carry extra fuel from Serenje. But when I got to Samfya, there was in fact a petrol station. This type of situation could easily lead the naive to believe that petrol is available everywhere, whether tha map shows it or not. <br /> <br />A minor but sometimes confusing shortcoming of this map is that elevation is strikingly color-coded but international borders are not. When you are out on the road, mountains, swamps and plateaus are clearly evident, whereas changes in politics and travel policies are not. <br /> <br />Overall, this is a valuable map for any visitor to Zambia, and I will purchase a fresh, unmarked, cleanly-folded copy for when I return to that country.	2005-08-07
US	51633735	R3IGZJ4J4R638	0786885289	393656029	Fingerprints: The Origins of Crime Detection and the Murder Case that Launched Forensic Science	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting and Scholarly	Colin Beavan has written an interesting and scholarly narrative of the early history of the use of fingerprints by law enforcement. Two factors compelled me to purchase and read Fingerprints: (1) I didn't know anything about fingerprinting and its history, and (2) it was extremely discounted. I am always amazed at the insights that can be gained by choosing my reading based just upon availability -- the magnitude of my ignorance is such that I don't need to spend much money or time to find something new and engaging. <br /> <br />Beavan begins his story with a crime. In fact, it is the first crime in England where fingerprints were used as evidence by a juror to send a murderer to the hangman. After introducing the scene, though, the author jumps back to the Middle Ages to begin the timeline of how fingerprints came to be used as evidence. What better place to begin that a time when physical evidence had no bearing on civil and criminal judgments? Beavan presents a brief ontogeny of the Western legal system, beginning with appeals to God and ending with an expectation that reason and data should be involved in life and death matters. <br /> <br />One of Beavan's objectives for this book is to present the human drama behind the origin of fingerprinting, especially to set the record straight regarding Henry Faulds. Faulds was one of the pioneers of the field, but because of english politics, he was unable to get the credit he deserved until after his death. The author describes the roles that Faulds, William Herschel, Alphonse Bertillon, Francis Galton, Edward Henry, Azizul Haque and others played in the origin of objective methods to identify recidivists and tie suspects to crime scenes. <br /> <br />Fingerprints is a quick read and I recommend it. If you know as little as I knew about fingerprinting, then Colin Beavan's book will nicely caulk up that hole. If you want to be able to use fingerprinting yourself, this is not a manual. However, an extensive bibliographyand index is provided.	2005-07-09
US	51633735	R3NZP1ITAYZXYW	0764555898	625956880	PHP and MySQL For Dummies (For Dummies (Computer/Tech))	Books	4	45	45	N	N	A Useful Starting Place for PHP & MySQL	I found PHP & MySQL for DUMMIES by Janet Valade to be an extremely useful starting place for practicing those tools, and if your circumstances and needs are similar to mine, then you may find it helpful as well. I have a database that I want to serve on the web. I have some experience with relatively simple programming, including C, but I am not a programmer per se. At my work, I have access to a web-server running both MySQL and PHP and an administrator to make sure that they are working. I am also someone who likes to do things themselves so that the result matches precisely what is in my head. All that this dummy needed was an introductory lesson on the syntax and structure of these two \\"languages\\" and Valade provided it. <br /> <br />MySQL & PHP for DUMMIES uses the example of setting up an online catalog for a pet store, demonstrating how to build a multi-table database in MySQL that employs the various necessary components, e.g. user login, querying and formatting the output. The computer operations covered are simple enough to just read on the train (i.e., I didn't need to be seated at my computer running the exercises to understand them) and provide a good primer for the kinds of that I could do... that YOU could do too. <br /> <br />Having praised the book for what it is, I want to make clear what it is not. The index is almost useless and the functions of both MySQL and PHP are covered in only the most superficial way, so this For DUMMIES book is a poor reference for projects beyond the advanced beginner; it does not necessarily replace more comprehensive texts. For my own rudimentary dabblings in web databases, I now rely more upon the PHP and MySQL code I have already written based on what this book taught me than the book itself. But, MySQL and PHP for DUMMIES provided the framework for me to take the first baby steps towards a really flexible web-based database.	2005-06-07
US	51633735	R63Q679DM4QFL	0141002263	913337412	The Prize of All the Oceans: Commodore Anson's Daring Voyage and Triumphant Capture of the Spanish Treasure Galleon	Books	5	2	3	N	N	You'll get scurvy if you don't read this book!	For myself, I have a high standard for my reading: I want to be a different person on the last page than I was on the first. As John Adams said, Everything should be done with reflection. So, if you can't manage even a modicum of personal growth from your reading, the time could have been spent equally productively twittling your thumbs. The Prize of All the Oceans by Gwyn Williams, though bargain-priced from most sources, is illuminating on multiple levels. Besides providing stirring examples of courage, weakness, incredible hardship, inspired leadership and mindless bureaucracy, Williams also demonstrates how to write a gripping and moving history book. I would recommend The Prize of All the Oceans to anyone that did not sail aboard one of Commodore Anson's ships around the world to capture the treasure-ladened galleon that oscillated annually betwixt Manila and Acapulco in the mid 18th century: they already know the story.	2005-05-25
US	51633735	R2DR7QA6RS25IL	0380727501	157497316	Notes from a Small Island	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Not a Walk in the Woods	When I read A Walk in the Woods and In a Sunburned Country, I enjoyed them both very much. Each read like the kind of travel book that I would like to write: vacationing as an excuse to tell amusing and interesting anecdotes. Based upon those of Bryson's works, I added some others to my Wish List, and for last year's exchange of Saturnalia gifts I received a copy of Notes from a Small Island. Unfortunately, Bill Bryson's narrative of his tour through England, Wales and Scotland does not measure up. <br /> <br />Notes from a Small Island has some of the Bryson humor found in the two books mentioned above, but the style is often irritating. Bryson is like that clown we all know that has to be funny all the time -- even when there is nothing humorous to say. (For people reading this review that know me, you will realize that the Pot has just called the Kettle black.) The comedic thread through Notes is rather strained. <br /> <br />What I liked (and admired) about Woods and Sunburned was Bryson's use of funny stories and odd facts to punch up his account. Notes from a Small Island has some of that, but there is an awful lot of bland narration and complaining about the weather that imparts no other useful data except that the organizing principle of most towns is not tourism and Bryson gets crabby and/or glum when it rains. With those two observations, it seems odd that such a person would choose October and the UK as the time and place for such an excursion. <br /> <br />I am perhaps being a little hard on Ol' Bill, but I have high standards for him as a public representative of those of us born in the American Midwest. Bryson's other works inspired me to want to write about my own adventures. On the other hand, Notes from a Small Island taught me a good lesson about the kind of travel book that I don't want to write. So, thanks again, Bill.	2005-03-15
US	51633735	R10UCLNO0C2J7F	0393320391	494808707	A Rage to Live: A Biography of Richard and Isabel Burton	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Not Perfect, but there is no option for 4.5 stars	A Rage to Live by Mary Lovell is an outstanding biography of both Sir Richard and the Lady Burton. Burton is about the only person that I have bothered to read multiple biograhies of. He was so complex and his life was just THAT interesting! There are a few other treatments of Sir Richard still in print, and Lovell takes these into account in her own telling. A great deal of data are available for the first time in this book, and the author uses this information adroitly to clear up long-standing misconceptions (and outright slanders) of both Burtons.    Lovell provides a good bit of compelling discussion about the conflict between Burton and John Hanning Speke over the source of the Nile. It has been common for Burton biographers to over-simplify the nature of the disagreement: Burton thought the Nile originated in Lake Tanganyika, Speke argued for Victoria Nyanza. Not so! Speke only really WANTED the source of the Nile to be Victoria (the lake, not the queen), whereas Burton, a Man of Science, argued that the observations at hand were insufficient to decide one way or the other. With the available information, Burton understood that Tanganyika or some as yet unknown spring could still have been the head of the Nile. Lovell explains well the behind-the-scenes wrangling at the Royal Geographical Society by Burton's detractors to back Speke as much out of spite as any other reason.    What really compelled me to read A Rage to Live -- besides what might best be called an obsession of the man -- was my desire to learn more about the Lady Burton, Isabel. She was an independent and interesting person herself, but she has been abused at the hands of other Burton biographers. To them, Isabel was an over-zealous Catholic, the schemer ready to use her influence and Richard's name for her own advancement, and the arsonist of Burton's papers and manuscript of the Scented Garden. Lovell makes the case that this is hogwash, the previous biographers have given too much credit tothe bigoted opinions of Richard's spinster niece. Among the new information provided by Lovell's research is the fact that Richard was instructing Isabel what to write on his behalf. She was very much his partner in all aspects of their life together, and Lovell's story does provide some justice for the Lady Burton. Most significantly, Lovell demonstrates that Isabel burned at Trieste what Richard had instructed her to burn, and that many important papers did indeed survive.    A Rage to Live is an enormous volume, more than 900 pages -- my train ride to and from work has been considerably lightened since I finished reading the book. It has the best maps of the recent Burton biographies, but the fewest illustrations. Sources are well documented. Previous reviewers have commented upon the state of the editing of this book; they make some good points. But speaking (NOT speke-ing) as someone who has tried to read everything that they can find by and about Sir Richard Francis Burton, Lovell's A Rage to Live is the best single source on the subject.	2005-03-07
US	51633735	R3LBB7P8JIVDHG	0452285216	857217799	Lies: And the Lying Liars Who Tell Them: A Fair and Balanced Look at the Right	Books	5	5	10	N	N	A Fair, Balanced and Entertaining Look at the Right	Al Franken's paperback edition of Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them is simultaneously entertaining and required reading for anyone who believes the Bush Regime has the right to describe themselves as \\"compassionate conservatives.\\" Franken, with his team of Harvard student research assistants, rebut the most shrill of the conservative media's monkeys, and he makes arguments (providing data and sources!) against the domestic and foreign policies of the Bush administration. <br /> <br />One bit of spin in particular addressed by Franken is the falsehood of a \\"liberal bias\\" in the mainstream media. The Right has misused this term. It is actually quite difficult to have a \\"liberal bias\\" because application of liberal thought would likely lead to a presentation of many sides to evaluate multiple facets of an issue. It would be \\"conservative,\\" in fact, to have an agenda to maintain the status quo and have a bias. I think the label that the Right is seeking should be \\"leftist bias.\\" Once we're talking about a bunch of rhetoric to support one party or another, the terminology should be political rather than philosophical. That being said, Franken presents evidence, from his own research and that of others, that the media have been biased in favor of the Republicans, at least as far as coverage of the 2000 presidential election. <br /> <br />The challenge that Franken faces with Lies is the same one dealt to all comedic political satire: the objectives of being both humorous and accurate are difficult to synchronize. Take, for example, a chart listing yearly motor vehicle registration statistics. Informative, yes; entertaining, certainly not. But now consider an anecdote that begins, \\"Bill O'Reilly and Lucifer walk into a bar...\\" Such a tale should probably not be the basis for questioning the veracity of certain news programs, but it has a good chance of being a real hoot! Franken has snaked a path that on average travels almost midway betwixt these two poles, but oftenenough wanders completely into the fictitious for the sake of a punch line. Entertaining, yes, but providing fodder for those with no sense of humor or decency that would try to discredit Mr. Franken's accurate statements. <br /> <br />I like a lot of things about Al Franken and his book Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them: it is informative, it is very funny and it is well written. I would very much like to see responses to the charges of lying that Franken has leveled answered with the same thoroughness, rather than the simple denial that is generally provided. This particular edition (paperback) has some added bits, including a discussion of some reaction to the hardcover edition -- with humorous results!	2004-09-03
US	51633735	R2CKEW6JYPVED0	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A Good Book About the Men in a Great Picture	Flags of Our Fathers by James Bradley (with Ron Powers) is the story of six men -- Mike, Harlon, Ira, Doc, Franklin and Rene -- and the events leading up and following their inclusion in one of the most famous photographs ever taken: the raising of the American flag on Iwo Jima. The author, James Bradley, is the son of one of the raisers, John \\"Doc\\" Bradley, a Navy corpsman during the war. I received the paperback edition of this book from my father; he had read it and been moved by the story. But, besides the fact that the volume was already on my shelf, I was keen to learn something more about the American war on the Pacific front. Flags of Our Fathers does not disappoint. <br /> <br />The telling of the story begins with each man separately, their individual lives and circumstances, and the series of events leading to their coming together atop Mount Suribachi. The actual raising of the flag took place following several days of intense fighting to take the mountain. It was followed by many, many more days of heavy, close-range combat to conquer the rest of the small island. Not until days afterward did anyone, including the photographer, Joe Rosenthal, see the image and guess the effect that it would have on people back home and those six young men still in the fray. <br /> <br />Three of the flag-raisers gave their lives taking the rest of Iwo Jima. The other three gave over their lives somewhat to the power of the photograph, returning to the U.S. as celebrity heroes and paraded out with the famous image to stir American support for the continuing fight in the Pacific and sell War Bonds. Each of those three young men dealt with their fame differently, and James Bradley provides an excellent and sensitive treatment of how the three survivors coped -- or failed to cope. <br /> <br />Of course, part of what makes this story so captivating are the controversies surrounding the photograph itself. I have no intention of blabbing them in this review, so you, gentle reader, will just have to take my word for it that the politics surrounding the photograph, both before and after it was snapped, make for an enlightening tale. Throw in some brave young men in the prime of their lives and a battle full of heroes against a deeply entrenched enemy and you've got yourself a story!	2004-08-31
US	51633735	RQX1Z91MMVWWW	030681028X	795489382	Captain Sir Richard Francis Burton: A Biography	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Good and Detailed Biography	Edward Rice wrote quite a nice biography about Captain Sir Richard Francis Burton. I read this book because I am an admirer of Burton's -- both professionally, as a geographer of Africa, and personally as a role model. Richard Burton was a man ahead of his own Victorian Era and one driven by his unmatched curiosity and desire to blaze new intellectual trails. I also wanted to read this book because I had already read Fawn Brodie's treatment of Burton. I wanted a different perspective, and Rice provided one. <br /> <br />As has been said many times before, Burton's life was fantastic and unbelievable. If someone had invented such a character they would be laughed away as ridiculous. But, Sir Richard Burton WAS real. As a young man, he joined the East India Company seeking the life of a soldier; a life with higher potential for glory than the ecclesiastical one for which his parents were pushing. During his youth and a brief stint among the \\"grocers\\" at Oxford, Burton recognized his aptitude for linguistics, and in India he played upon this facility to become a player in the so-called \\"Great Game\\" going on in the 19th century in what is now Pakistan. While in the East, Burton also studies Islam. He was able to play the part so well that he could pass as one of the faithful on his expeditions to Medina, Mecca and Harar. <br /> <br />The next phase of Burton's life brought him to Africa where he searched with John Hanning Speke for the source of the Nile (with miserable results) and explored the ethnography of West Africa. Later in life, he served Her Majesty's government, generally with distinction but always with controversy, in South America and Syria. He even made a tour of the western United States to visit the Mormons and indulge his curiosity about polygamy. <br /> <br />As important and interesting as Burton's adventures were, they are all the more so because he wrote about them in great detail. Burton's mind was apparently a open flood gate with ideas and opinions gushing out at a rate that is, like so much of the man, unbelievable. In his Golden Years, too old to adventure, he took to translations of poetry, especially erotica. His presentations of the Arabian Nights and the Kama Sutra to his stuffy contemporaries are enough to make him a hero in my book. <br /> <br />Rice's treatment of Burton is good. I did find myself frequently having to re-read long sentences, trying to decide where the comma or hyphen should have been placed, but once I got used to the pattern, things went smoothly enough. There is copious detail about the people and places and political goings-on while Burton was in India, and, while stuck reading on a plane, I longed for a more detailed map than was provided. Rice's work I found engrossing and his arguments on subjects like Lady Burton, Burton's commitment to Islam and his pre-marital excursions compliment well Brodie's more dated style and conclusions.	2004-08-13
US	51633735	R1J6UM4UMOYESN	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Who Knew Exercise Could be so Fun?	Bill Bryson set out with A Walk in the Woods with two objectives. One was to walk all 2200 miles of the grueling Appalachian Trail, from Georgia to Maine. The other was to write an interesting and entertaining narrative of his adventure. What a great idea! That is the book that I would like to write. But Bryson accomplished only one of his goals: he wrote a very good book. <br /> <br />That he didn't finish the hike is significant for at least a couple of reasons. It shows that Bryson doesn't even need a real topic to produce thought-provoking (at least somewhat) and humorous literature. But, it also means that the originally intended book has not yet been written. Thanks, Bill, for leaving some of the glory for someone else -- maybe me!	2004-08-13
US	51633735	R1DMZM6MG02R5X	0767903862	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Bryson is My Kind of Traveler.	In a Sunburned Country is a wonderful account of the sort of trip I would like to take to Australia. Bryson likes to walk and drive all over to see the neat things that make Australia unique-- marsupials, neighborhoods built without the pretense of architectural bias, stromatolites, giant fruit beside the road and, of course, Australians. (Among other sights, of course.) THAT is a vacation. Sitting on a beach or going shopping in a foreign city is for others.<br />Bill Bryson brings a silly yet worldly perspective to his travels. He isn't trying to sell Australia to me, and he just tells it like it is. And, he likes it.	2004-06-24
US	51633735	R3EMO4BH5ZAE0	0393301664	158415349	The Devil Drives: A Life of Sir Richard Burton	Books	5	35	38	N	N	An Excellent Biography About One of History's Great Men	The Devil Drives by Fawn Brodie is the life story of Sir Richard Burton, a hero of mine. Burton was driven by the desire to acquire knowledge; he faced his own mortality frequently to acquire new 'firsts;' but he was also a complex man of numerous contradictions. Most importantly he wasn't only a do-er; he did not just master dozens of languages, make himself one of the greatest swordsmen of Europe, penetrate Mecca, find Lake Tanganyika for the West, translate the Arabian Nights and the Kama Sutra, and a g'jillion other feats. He also wrote about them, sharing candid facts, often too risque for Victorian readers, as only a Man of the World like Richard Burton could.<br />I was impressed with the interest Brodie took in Lady Burton. If one wants to know the man, then one must look at his wife. Especially in this case, where Isabel Burton does not even seem as though she could have been someone that Richard would have tolerated to hold a conversation with, let alone devote a large chuck of this life to. Isabel was, in fact, the very type of woman Burton, in his writing, claimed to dislike: chaste and superstitious. How could the man who brought the Kama Sutra to the West and sampled life widely (wink wink) have chosen to spend his best years in a sexless marriage? Very odd, indeed.<br />The Devil Drives is an outstanding book. It is well written and interesting, although one does need to take the mid-century psycho-analyses with a grain of salt. I would highly recommend it to anyone who wants to live life to the fullest and needs a role model from whom to learn.	2004-06-13
US	51633735	R1VVHV7NGIR5J6	0393016102	13922595	Philadelphia: A 300-Year History	Books	5	41	43	N	N	Hard to Imagine this Book Being Better	As a recent transplant to Philadelphia, I wanted to become more familiar with the history of my new home. Philadelphia: A 300-Year History, edited by Russell F. Weigley, is an exhaustive but readable (and extremely enjoyable) chronology of the events that shaped the City of Brotherly Love.<br />One beneficial characteristic of this book is that it is an edited volume. Various authors contributed pieces on the reasonably short time period of their specialty. These chapters form a temporal progression, from the founding of Pennsylvania by William Penn in the early 1680s to the beginning of the Reagan Era. Within the chapters, though, the organization is generally non-linear, moving through various topics ranging from politics to the arts to the problems of running a large city controlled by various political machines. No single author could have produced as comprehensive and balanced of a history of Philadelphia.<br />One of the other neat things about this history is that every few chapters there is a picture of the city skyline.<br />People who aren't from (or don't currenty live in) Philly might find the details of this book hard to follow. The locations of important events and structures are given by street addresses-- often with street names no longer in use.	2003-07-04
US	51633735	R31FXDUL5C2XSD	0446672289	231487583	The Death of Common Sense: How Law is Suffocating America	Books	3	8	17	N	N	Good if You Like a Rant (And Who Doesn't?)	The Death of Common Sense, by Philip Howard is a good rant about the short-comings in our present system of government, two large components of which are an enormous bureaucracy and a built-in tendency for litigiousness. Howard does achieve his goal of describing how law is suffocating America, the subtitle of the book. But, as I have already said, this is a rant: one-sided, with few suggestions about how to change government for the better (other than to quit the big bureaucracy and endless litigation).<br />Mr. Howard continually (and rightly) raises the point that our government, while striving to be fair in its actions to everyone, achieves this by accomplishing very little. A fine example provided by the author is the case of a group of nuns that wanted to buy and restore an unoccupied building in New York to serve as a shelter for the homeless. However, a city ordinance requiring that new, multi-story buildings be equipped with elevators pushed the charitable project beyond the practical budget of the nuns. On the one had, it makes sense to plan new buildings with those people that can not easily climb stairs in mind. On the other hand, inflexibly requiring such expensive accommodations puts affordable housing out of the reach of many Americans. It is impossible to please everyone, but the law should allow us to try and please someone!<br />Philip K. Howard makes a strong case, but he does not suggest much in the way of a fix. I found, also, that his views were quite one-sided. If you are someone in favor of big, meddle-some, liberal government, then you probably won't find Howard's arguments that convincing-he'll just sound like some guy with a beef against how his government spends so much time and money to make sure that everyone has the same opportunities. If you are more of a libertarian, then you will probably agree with Mr. Howard and feel more outrage than you already do after reading his numerous anti-overregulation anecdotes. I would have found the book to be much stronger if Howard had tried to build an argument rather than list his complaints from a soap-box.	2003-05-08
US	51633735	R2S6WTTSH9NT1E	1840462493	618709685	Dawkins Vs. Gould: Survival of the Fittest (Revolutions in Science)	Books	3	20	28	N	N	A Popular Account of Popular Accounts	I am of a few minds about this book. It has both positive and negative characteristics, depending upon the questions one asks of it.<br />On the one hand, this is a book about evolution. Given that many parts of society still cling to their various Creation Myths, any source that provides a rational framework for discussion about how the world works should be highly rated indeed. Sterelny provides a biological basis sufficient to spark interest in a virgin mind. If you don't know anything about evolution or evolutionary theory, then Dawkins vs. Gould (as opposed to not reading on the subject at all) is perhaps worthwhile.<br />On the other hand, Dawkins vs. Gould is clearly the work of an under-informed, non-biologist. The debate from both sides of the Adaptationist Programme (i.e., the school of thought whence all evolutionary change results from natural selection) runs much deeper than just being between a well-spoken advocate, Dawkins, and Gould, an articulate critic. Stated plainly, Sterelny provides a passable popular account of the brilliant popular works of Dawkins and Gould. The question becomes, Why not simply read The Extended Phenotype, Wonderful Life and the like?<br />On yet a third limb, I was somewhat disappointed by the physical volume of Dawkins vs. Gould. For the quality of the binding and grade of paper, I would have expected to pay half as much as the price suggested on the back cover.<br />So, to sum up... Dawkins vs. Gould by Kim Sterelny is better than nothing, but the well-stocked library of evolution will not miss it.	2003-03-15
US	51633735	R3B5BXPYJK4QSS	0783890192	503232720	Flu: The Story of the Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918 and the Search for the Virus That Caused It	Books	5	3	5	N	N	One of the best books I have read in a while!	Flu by Gina Kolata is one of the best-written, most interesting books I have read in a long time.  It is an exciting history of the 1918 influenza pandemic and the science behind its subsequent explanation.  I originally purchased this book because it was offered at a discounted price and looked (based on the cover) interesting, not because I had any special interest in epidemeology or the author.  Now, after reading Flu, I would like to know more about both!<br />The story of the 1918 flu pandemic is frightening.  Reading about it left me pondering the same question posed by the author to herself in the opening pages of her book: I am a scientist, I have taken a college microbiology class, so why haven't I heard about an illness that killed 20 million people (at least) in the span of a year?  This flu, after mildly foreshadowing its presence at the close of the 1917-1918 season, struck hard over the course of a few weeks in the fall of 1918 and continued its march around the world for the rest of the season.  It affected everything about people lives that year, from where it was legal to cough to who was able to at least put men on the field of the War to End All Wars.<br />The subsequent history of trying to explain what happened in 1918 is also compelling.  Several interesting personalities are involved, each in their different fields trying to shed new light on the old story-- virologists infecting pigs and ferrets, molecular biologists trying to get DNA from long-stored tissue, physicians trying to recover frozen virus in Alaska and a Canadian geographer with a talent for drawing media attention to her work.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone with eyes.  Its only possible shortcoming may be in the cursory explanation certain technical aspects receive.  However, if readers don't already know a little about molecular biology (including DNA/viral replication and PCR), it is worth having to do a little research to get up to speed.	2002-12-08
US	51633735	R1T5XY2336ADKP	0764516299	317543046	Adobe GoLive 6 For Dummies	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Very helpful.	Before I purchased Go Live 6 for Dummies, I was pretty comfortable doing my html the old fashioned way-- with PageMill.  However, upgrading my Mac to OS X meant upgrading my software.<br />This book is another fine For Dummies product.  It was straight-forward enough for me (being familiar with html and the parent-application that spawned Go Live) to just read it through.  Now I just use it as a reference tool.  I don't think I have ever even opened the manual that came with the application.	2002-12-08
US	51633735	RTBQMB20HC6EL	0812694333	476681057	The Simpsons and Philosophy: The D'oh! of Homer (Popular Culture and Philosophy)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	It's refreshing to see philosophers put to good work!	I have been a Simpsons fan from the get-go.  I watched the very first episode, the Christmas Special, in the lounge of my freshman dorm, and I have been an enthusiast ever since.  The D'oh of Homer, edited by Irwin et al., is an organic product of the attraction the show has to the brainy among us.<br />The Simpsons and Philosophy: The D'oh of Homer is compilation of Simpsonian essays written by working philosophers (as far as I can tell, \\"working philosopher\\" is an oxymoron) on various subjects.  The text is divided among four sections: The Characters, Themes, Ethics and The Simpsons and Philosophers.  I would propose a secondary classification scheme as well: (1) those essays that use familiar Simpsons personalities and situations as examples within a discussion of philosophical ideas and (2) those that try to extrapolate philosophical meaning from the show itself.<br />The chapters that I found most enjoyable where those of the former type, the ones that (re)introduced various ethical philosophies or values of critical commentary using the Simpsons to support their positions.  Those essays about Nietzsche, American anti-intellectualism, allusion (a topic especially relevant to the Simpsons), and television's sexual politics were among my favorites.<br />There were some real stinkers, too.  A few of the authors of these collected essays seemed to think that a TV show should present a consistent philosophy, which the Simpsons clearly does not. <br />Overall, I would recommend The Simpsons and Philosophy.  For people who have never even thought about philosophy, this book would, in many respects, be a worthwhile introduction.  However, as de Tocqueville predicted, some in our democracy will not appreciate such high browed pursuits, even when directed to a cartoon.	2002-09-23
US	51633735	R7KMX0DCQ0OND	0743405862	995097341	Do I Stand Alone?: Going to the Mat Against Political Pawns and Media Jackals	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Remember, he is doing the best that he can!	Although I currently live in Pennsylvania, I am a proud Minnesotan.  Governor Ventura is my governor.  However, as a student of political philosophy, it did not even begin to occur to me that Jesse the Body might be Jesse the Brain as well.  After ready his book, Do I Stand Alone?, I am not positive what to think.<br />I enjoyed Do I Stand Alone?.  Political science it is not.  But, this book does provide an insiders perspective on the workings of Minnesota's and the nation's political machinery.  Governor Ventura does an admirable job detailing the media-money monster's hold on America's government, and he makes predictions about where we as a country are headed if things don't change.<br />Governor Ventura is not an elitist, and his writing is aimed at about a high school level.  The text is divided into short sections each headed by a catchy platitude.  I found this style and other details of the writing to be ironic, given the author's negativity toward sound bytes and over-simplification.<br />Jesse Ventura is certainly one of the most interesting politicians in office today, and his ideas are worth the quick read that they are.  While buying his book does contribute to his personal wealth, it does not constitute a vote!	2002-08-14
US	51633735	R3F588WZG9Y0DA	0786709014	591764875	Latitude Zero: Tales of the Equator	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Good Read on the Road	For Latitude Zero, Gianni Guadalupi and Anthony Shugaar have put together a collection of short historical essays recounting the exploration of the equator.  The accounts are organized somewhat chronologically.  Following a brief introduction to the ancient folklore, the authors tell some entertaining stories of the Spanish conquest in South America and their search for the mythical city of gold, El Dorado.  The narrative then jumps to the English exploration of central Africa.  Finally, the tales turn to Magellan and his successors' adventures in the East Indies.<br />The interconnecting theme of these tales, besides the equator, is the humor that can be found in the recurring naive arrogance of the West in its dealings with non-European peoples.  The 16th century Conquistadors come off the worst.  At least Richard Burton et al. tried to color their exploration of the upper Nile and the Rift Lakes as geographical science.<br />Guadalupi and Shugaar have produced a well written and interesting light read.  The sole short-coming of their volume -- filled with place names -- is the absence of useful maps.	2002-07-22
US	51633735	R3IE7Q1LRYDV7B	0312287747	142128956	Maggots, Murder, and Men: Memories and Reflections of a Forensic Entomologist	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Fine Collection of Anecdotes and Opinions	The secondary title of Maggots, Murder, and Men by Zakaria Erzinçlioglu is accurate-- Memories and Reflections of a Forensic Entomologist.  Dr. Zak, as he is known to those unwilling to pronounce his name, has compiled an anthology of anecdotes and opinions accumulated over his long career of examining bugs for the British criminal justice system.  I chose to read this book because I wanted to learn more than I already knew about forensic entomology, but I did not want to shell out the bucks to purchase an appropriate textbook.  Maggots, Murder, and Men is a fine introduction to the basics; Dr. Erzinçlioglu explains quite nicely the logic of using flies, fly larvae and other creepy-crawlies to determine the time of death of a body.  He provides a bit of the fly life cycle and discusses the ecology of various species, but the entomology ends there.  There are no identification keys or the like.<br />The book is well written and entertaining.  Besides bug stories, there is also a fair bit of exposition on such subjects as the criminal justice system, hypothesis testing, shady people (from both sides of the law), and Sherlock Holmes.  I am quite sure that while one is picking through many tedious piles of insect samples a jillion odd thoughts pop to mind.  I am thankful that Zakaria Erzinçlioglu chose to commit some of his to posterity.	2002-06-25
US	51633735	R12L4UT0109ULM	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A fair and honest discussion of the Taliban	Ahmed Rashid's `Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil & Fundamentalism in Central Asia' is an excellent read for anyone interested in the brief history of the Islamic `student' movement that captured the majority of Afghanistan.  While, at the time that I am writing this review, it seems likely that the Taliban has run its course, Rashid's text highlights the centuries of instability in central Asia and exposes the questionable dealings of Western governments in the region.<br />The author divides the book into three sections.  The first is a brief recap of centuries of Afghan conquests by Mongols, Persians, British, Russians... everyone, including a detailed synopsis of the seven years of Taliban conquest beginning in the mid-1990s.  The second section analyzes the origin and substance of the movement's interpretation of Islam.  Finally, Rashid presents an in-depth analysis of The New Great Game in Afghanistan; that is, the use of ethnic factions by foreign interests in order to influence trade (both legal and illegal) throughout central Asia.  Most interesting to me among these is the United States' negotiations, via Unocal, to fund a petroleum pipeline.<br />Rashid provides several interesting appendices, including excerpts of Taliban legislation regarding women and a glossary of relevant Islamic terminology.  I highly recommend `Taliban' to anyone who desires a clear unbiased discussion of the events leading up to the United States' recent foray into Afghanistan.  Ahmed Rashid's treatment is especially meaningful toward that end, as it was published before the horrible events of September 11.	2002-03-20
US	51633735	RQBLCCVS4QKCO	0517029618	107960379	Relativity: The Special and the General Theory--A Clear Explanation that Anyone Can Understand	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Informative and Accessible	Albert Einstein is the eidos of the Smart Guy.  I chose to read Robert W. Lawson's authorized translation of Einstein's popular exposition of the topic of Relativity because I didn't think I knew anything about it.  Well, that isn't true.  That was why I chose to buy it; I have a whole special collection of uncracked literature in my library relating to my personal ignorance.  I chose to read it because of both the above stated reason and because it was small enough to tote with me on the train to and from work.  I enjoyed it thoroughly.<br />Although I got a big fat B in my undergraduate physics course, all I understood about Relativity was 1) it has something to do with Energy being equal to the product of Mass and the speed of light squared, and 2) there is something wrong with Newtonian mechanics when one is trying to explain the orbit of Mercury.  Relativity turns out to be a good chunk more interesting than that.  By spelling it out using simple examples like trains, Euclidian geometry and math no fancier than algebra, Einstein seemed to make a pretty good case for the over-simplicity of the good old laws of inertia and momentum.  Sure, my clock is at rest with respect to me and will remain so until something moves it, but observed from a distant star, it is accelerating through four-dimensional space-time quite rapidly.  Moreover, the perception of my clock (and time) from that remote reference point is influenced by the finite yet constant speed of light.  That guy was really thinking.<br />In summation, spending 20 minutes in the morning and 20 minutes in the evening with this book made me feel like I had the gist of Relativity.  Now back to my stack of ignorance.	2002-02-20
US	51633735	R19LL649BWFY1U	0486251012	360819388	The Compleat Strategyst: Being a Primer on the Theory of Games of Strategy (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	63	64	N	N	A Fun Introduction to Game Theory	The Compleat Strategyst by J.D. Williams is a wonderful introduction to the ins and outs of game theory.  The pace of the primer I found quite reasonable, and the organization is very natural.  The Compleat Strategyst begins with the gist (as it should) regarding game matrices and how to interpret them.  Williams's discussion then proceeds through 2 x 2 games, 2 x m games, 3 x 3 games, 3 x m games, and so on.  Each section contains clever story problems chosen to both re-enforce basic principles and point to potential pitfalls.  Also provided are numerous exercises to build the skills necessary to understand game theory.<br />One of the most enjoyable facets of The Compleat Strategyst is J.D. Williams's entertaining writing style.  He seems to know the kind of people reading his book (non-mathematicians who think they might be able to apply game theory to their own work - in my case anyway), and the text is taylored to that audience.  In addition, while making the subject matter of game theory accessible strictly through arithmatic, the author provides fair reminders that a great deal of actual mathmatics is being swept beneath the rug.	2001-12-19
US	51633735	RBWEY48C77G1O	0679779086	690058783	American Scripture: Making the Declaration of Independence	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The True Story of the Declaration of Independence	&quot;American Scripture: Making the Declaration of Independence&quot; by Pauline Maier will likely be enjoyed by anyone who wants to better understand the origins, consequences, and more recent applications of the Revolutionary principles embodied in the United States 1776 Declaration of Independence. As a student of not only the names and places of colonial American history but also the ideology of government of Enlightenment Americans, I know I learned a great deal about the political climate and events leading up to the most important of congressional resolutions and how the text of the Declaration has shaped the subsequent history of the United States.<br />Professor Maier splendidly places the Declaration of Independence in the context it deserves. While latter generations have revered that parchment as though it was the product of divine inspiration, a flash of Revolutionary brilliance through the darkness of oppression, that view may not be entirely accurate. Inarguably, the Declaration of Independence was crafted by Jefferson's genius. But it also holds a place in a series of British Revolutionary documents including the 13th century Magna Carta and the 1689 Declaration of Rights, the latter of which opened the door for William and Mary to take the throne. On this side of the Water, as the desire for independence &quot;ripened&quot; among the Colonies, the congressional resolution and declaration was preceded by numerous county and state declarations of separation from British rule. Perhaps the most influential of these was the Virginia Declaration of Rights penned by George Mason. The Committee of Five (including Jefferson, Adams, and Franklin) charged with drafting the congressional Declaration of Independence incorporated the sentiments and style (as well as text) of these previous documents. The result was a document that so captured the feelings of Americans toward Britain and their colonial governments that their collective response might best be summed up as, &quot;No duh.&quot; It was not until decades later that the people of the early 19th century United States looked back to the events of their Revolution.<br />Even though the United States achieved independence from Britain, the Declaration, especially the first part (up to the list of grievances against George III), has continued (and continues) to play role in American history. Although that 1776 Congressional Resolution can not be considered the Law of the Land, the Revolutionary ideal that all people are created equal and that they equally share the rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness has been and should continue to be the foundation of all political discussion in the United States. &quot;American Scripture&quot; rightly reminds us as Americans to look beyond the idolatry of the piece of paper and look more closely at the history of the ideas of our own ideology.	2001-10-31
US	51633735	R1C9FNTSGUQ4WL	081336552X	42247314	Everyday Irrationality: How Pseudo- Scientists, Lunatics, And The Rest Of Us Systematically Fail To Think Rationally	Books	2	22	37	N	N	I didn't give it a '1' because it could have been worse	Everyday Irrationality by Robyn Dawes was not at all what I thought it would be. I chose to purchase this book because I thought it would be an exposé (possibly entertaining) of the ridiculous, illogical behavior exhibited by everyone. That is a topic upon which I frequently harp. Unfortunately, Everyday Irrationality is a tedious book of another color.<br />Contrary to what the full title might suggest, this book is less about HOW pseudo-scientists, lunatics, and the rest of us systematically fail to think rationally and more of an explanation of WHY. Dawes is a psychologist, and nearly all of his examples of irrationality come from that field. While pointing out the poor logic of psychology, as with faith or astrology, is similar to shooting fish in a barrel of self-contradiction, the irony, though delicious, was barely enough to keep my attention.<br />Dawes defined irrationality as an argument involving self-contradictions. The author, however, frequently found his contradictory evidence for irrationality from outside the argument. If assumptions are amended to an argument, then one is no longer testing the consistency of the same reasoning. Because of this, 'irrationality' is different than 'logic,' and it is unclear to me whether or not Dawes is simply interested in the 'truth' of a statement over its internal consistency.<br />What were the most interesting were the self-contradictory arguments presented to explain various irrationalities. The obvious example is Chapter 7 where Dawes selects several anecdotes to explain why stories of individual incidents are not useful to describe generalities.<br />Another example occurs in Chapter 3 where Dawes investigates the public health argument that anyone irresponsible enough to be addicted to heroine would not be interested in using sterile needles to avoid HIV. Dawes claims that this argument is irrational because, as people &quot;...are not paragons of consistently good - or, for that matter, bad - health practices, there is nothing contradictory about engaging in one unhealthy habit while refraining from another.&quot; (p. 31) Granted, such contradictory behavior is clearly popular - I myself have tried to reduce the saturated fats in my diet, but I have made no plans to put down my pipe or the occasional cigar. However, commonplace or not, concern over the effects of a variable on a potential undesirable outcome while ignoring other variables that could lead to the same outcome is self-contradictory and, therefore, irrational according to our working definition. Can a self-contradictory statement be used to demonstrate the irrationality of another?<br />Everyday Irrationality does provide a bright spot or two. There is a brief but successful introduction to hypothesis testing using statistics and limited logical symbolism. Where arithmetic is involved, it may be possible to expect 'truth.' In addition, Dawes does a fine job of suggesting the causes (incomplete specification, etc.) of irrationality that everyone should be aware of in their everyday thinking and thoughting.	2001-09-20
US	51633735	R3HRD3QWCYL0ZS	0471362700	651720508	Edison: A Life of Invention	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A detailed exploration of Edison's life and accomplishments	People can often be categorized into one of two bins: innovators and followers - a small number pave the way for the rest. I chose to read Israel's biography of Edison because I wanted to understand more about the 'Wizard of Menlo Park,' the innovator's innovator, Thomas A. Edison.<br />Israel provides a detailed review of Edison's upbringing, influences, successes, and failures. The dominant character of the inventor's personality was his single-minded vision of success: the way he practiced telegraphy as a young man (long hours where ever he could find them), the way little could thwart his visions of innovation, his genius for seeing analogies among various technologies, his charismatic ability to raise capital, and his lack of fear of failure. Israel's portrayal of Edison paralleled de Toqueville's vision of the quintessential 19th century American. The 'Inventor of the Ages' was both a man who knew that what was good today could be made even better tomorrow and one that favored practical, applied knowledge over theoretical and esthetic considerations - &quot;less learnin', more earnin'.&quot; (I admit that the latter quote is actually from an episode of Family Ties guest starring Carl Reiner but it is still applicable.) This is perhaps best summed up in the revelation (to me) that Edison did not stop at inventing the light bulb - he invented electric lighting. However, Edison's single-minded dedication to technical innovation negatively affected his personal relationships and his esteem among the scientific community of the early 20th century.<br />Israel's biography is extremely detailed. The text contains a great deal of the minutia of the individuals with whom Edison worked and technical descriptions of electrical apparatus in which I (who has studied only the physics which accompanies a BS in biology) had little interest or comprehension. I personally would have been satisfied with more interpretation from the author.	2001-09-11
US	51633735	R26NZPVQZ1A8DJ	0156006499	974363538	Time's Pendulum: From Sundials to Atomic Clocks, the Fascinating History of Timekeeping and How Our Discoveries Changed the World	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An interesting book	Time's Pendulum is a book not only about time and how time is measured, but also about our perception of time -- from the moment we as a species started worrying about it right up to today. Barnett does not only discuss clocks and how clocks work but the importance of time in daily life. Also excellent is her discussion of 'deep time' -- thinking about time on astronomical scales. I was also pleased by the more subtle connections. For example, the influence of the railroads on not only synchronizing watches over extending longitutes (i.e., time zones), but also their contribution to geologic time through uncovering the fossiliferous rocks during their construction.	2001-06-14
