US	51635739	RIJZMXA1E7KSR	044101013X	578065247	Angelica	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Triumphant Return to Samaria	... Sharon Shinn is always on my must-buy list, and another Samaria book immediately catapults her at the top of my list. I found that ANGELICA was a satisfying return to a very rich and engrossing setting, and I read it in record time.<br />For those of you not familiar with the setting, Samaria is a world settled by the remnants of a religious colony, led by a host of angels that protect the common people. Shinn's stories deal with love and discovery of the world around them and their past as two common themes, and I truly love the way she handles things. Characters are definitely her strongpoint, and she's able to immediately make you feel for them at the very beginning of the book. Her prose is magnificent as well, and she's apt at making you truly feel you are *IN* the story.<br />ANGELICA follows the story of three people: Susannah, an Edori woman; Gaaron, the steadfast angel destined to be the next Archangel, and his hellion of a sister, Miriam. This storyline was hinted at in the pages of ARCHANGEL, and those wanting more of a taste of the Edori of Samaria will find this book a wonderful read. The Edori really play more of a role than the angels do, so those purely interested in the romance/angels aspect might be a bit disappointed if expecting it to be a clone of Archangel. The storyline follows Susannah the most, though the entire story is not romance-based like ARCHANGEL. Rather, we are thrown into the turmoil of the year just before Gaaron is to ascend to power, when strange visitors are attacking the peaceful people of Samaria, and they must decide what to do with the new, frightening threat. Shinn's storyline truly surprised me, and I found it very interesting. She always makes me wonder what she is doing next, and I find that delightful in an author.<br />I would not recommend this as a starting point for the series--go out and buy ARCHANGEL instead. After you've read the first trilogy, this will be a satisfying return to the world that Shinn has so masterfully created. If you start out reading this book without the tidbits from the others, you will miss some of the better hints of the story that Shinn never explains fully, expecting you, the reader, to be a returning friend to the setting. The details of Samaria are subtle in this book, and first-time readers of the series will miss all the parts that made me smile with happiness.<br />Bottom line: A wonderful read. The ending is a bit abrupt, but still satisfies. If you're looking to start the series, skip this and go onto ARCHANGEL instead. If you're looking to pick up an easy, wonderfully told read, please pick up Angelica. Truly worth the hardcover price (something you cannot say about a lot of books nowdays).asterfully created. If you start out reading this book without the tidbits from the others, you will miss some of the better hints of the story that Shinn never explains fully, expecting you, the reader, to be a returning friend to the setting. The details of Samaria are subtle in this book, and first-time readers of the series will miss all the parts that made me smile with happiness.<br />Bottom line: A wonderful read. The ending is a bit abrupt, but still satisfies. If you're looking to start the series, skip this and go onto ARCHANGEL instead. If you're looking to pick up an easy, wonderfully told read, please pick up Angelica. Truly worth the hardcover price (something you cannot say about a lot of books nowdays).	2003-03-08
US	51635739	R3G5UFHZ7MVEZ0	0743455967	44310359	On Writing	Books	5	3	3	N	N	What a relief for writers!	In the past few months I've read book after book that tells you that you must do this, you must do that. You must write out a 300 page synopsis before you can even begin writing. You must have 90 notecards on every minor character to know where you're going. You must write a notebook full of your character's history before really knowing them inside and out. It's enough to make the budding novelist go absolutely insane!<br />I picked up Stephen King's 'On Writing' on a whim. I'm not a King fan -- my tastes are Sci/Fi & Fantasy & Romance. But I wanted to read what a bestselling author had to say about his craft, as most of the 'How To' books out there are by nobody you've ever heard of. He had me immediately hooked.<br />As a writer, this book is a must-buy. Not only do you hear about everything Stephen King struggled through to get his book published, but he also gives you tips and tricks that he's learned along the way. Don't want to write an outline? Don't. Don't want to write about your character's grandfather's past? Don't bother. It's OKAY!<br />Instead of bogging down the wannabe writer with 'surefire' methods, he discusses things most get hung up on, like dialogue, description, grammar, building characters, linking ideas, etc. He doesn't tell you that you MUST do it this particular way. Rather, he discusses what has worked for him, what he's learned through the business, and gives a few tidbits of advice along the way. It's entertaining, and it's flat out wonderful. It made me very relieved, as a stressed out writer. I went out and immediately threw away my notecards and my outlines. To heck with 'em!<br />The first half of the book deals with King's early life and his struggles to get published, and then when he has a good basis set up, he swoops into the writing do's and don'ts.<br />If you're a struggling writer that's struggling to find a decent book on the craft, please pick this one up. I cannot recommend it enough. I've read it twice already and I'm thinking about reading it again. It really is that helpful, I promise you. Not because it tells you exactly what to do, but because a bestselling author is telling you that you're NOT doing it wrong like all those other books say!hinking about reading it again. It really is that helpful, I promise you. Not because it tells you exactly what to do, but because a bestselling author is telling you that you're NOT doing it wrong like all those other books say!	2003-01-01
US	51635739	R34EA23P94FPCI	1558534784	430179142	Mort Kunstler's Civil War: The South	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	If you're not sure what this book is about,read this first!	I just ordered this for my dad for christmas and was surprised by it.  If you are looking for a large, beautiful coffee-table book filled with Kunstler's civil war paintings, you might want to keep looking.<br />This book is TINY! I was completely surprised. It's no more than 5 or 6 inches tall.  I was expecting a 12 inch book, or even larger, and to my surprise it's almost palm-sized.  So the fully glory of his wonderful paintings seems somewhat diminshed when you have to squint to make out details.  That was the most disappointing part of the book.  Other than that, Mort Kunstler was a wonderful painter, and this book has a rather full gallery of his works depicting Southern troops in the Civil War, along with a few blurbs talking about the history behind the piece, etc.  Still a good buy, even if I'm disappointed in the size of it.	2002-12-15
US	51635739	R3HWCJ1SCONZP1	0671702513	29402714	The Prize	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A hit from Julie Garwood!	I've read this book many times before, and it's always stuck out in my mind as one of Julie Garwood's finest.  The cover depicted is not actually the newest edition, as it has a white cover with a graceful castle on it.  Not that it makes a difference on anything, but just FYI.<br />The Prize is set in 1066, at the time of the Norman Invasion (One of my favorite time periods for romances).  Lady Nicholaa is a Saxon already legendary for the lengths that she goes to keep her castle safe from the invaders. When it does finally fall to Royce, a Baron in the king's employ, Nicholaa is taken to court, and instead of being the King's Prize to give out to a Baron, she is actually allowed to choose her *own* husband.  She chooses Royce for revenge, and things snowball from there.<br />This is a very sweet, fairly predictable romance (aren't they all?) but the characters are what make it truly exceptional.  Julie Garwood makes her heroines so naive and forthright that they're utterly hilarious to read about. Nicholaa is not a strong spitfire of a heroine, but there's no doubt in your mind that she knows how to get what she wants! I like that her heroines are very ordinary with a touch of the extraordinary.<br />Julie Garwood combines a mix of warm humor, storytelling, and romance in 'The Prize'.  It's not a groundbreaking, unique novel, but it's more like a warm, fuzzy blanket that you can pull up over yourself and relax with. 'The Prize' is everything a romance should be! Which suits me just fine, and I suspect that if you pick up this book, you definitely will not be disappointed.	2002-11-29
US	51635739	RON02DMR2LHHP	0671744216	986944205	The Secret	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A definite MUST for your 'Re-Read' Shelf!	I know I have one, and this book is definitely in the top tier.  There are some books by romance authors that you can just go and read over and over again, and I find that this is one of the best.<br />The story starts out charming and doesn't stop there. You're introduced to two little girls -- Judith and Frances Catherine, who should not be friends -- because one is English and one is Scottish.  Of course, that never stopped anybody!  They become best friends and maintain this bond through the years.<br />Fast forward a bit and Scottish Frances Catherine is expecting her first baby, and wants English Judith to be at her side.  The laird, Iain Maitland, figures that Judith will say no to this request, and takes 3 of his men to go get her.  To everyone's surprise, Judith is not only ready, but she's practically begging to be taken away from her abusive household.<br />Along the way, Iain and Judith fall in love, and the Secret of Judith's past threatens to tear them apart for all time.  Of course, it won't because this is a romance novel, but there is still a lot of mystery and conflict surrounding the refreshingly innocent Judith.<br />There is a ton of humor in this book -- you will laugh over what the Scottish men say when they discuss Judith.  You'll laugh over Judith's actions as she worries herself into a panic.  I laughed my head off at the beginning of the book, with the strange friendship between Frances Catherine and Judith.  It is obvious that Julie Garwood has a love for life and loves to laugh -- it is inherent through her books.<br />I cannot stress how much I love this book! Judith is very innocent and stubborn, and has had a hard life.  You'll find yourself really cheering for her as the story goes by, and wanting everything to work out for her. She charms everyone she runs into (and charms the reader as well)  Frances Catherine is a gem and I found that Iain was very easy to fall in love with. This is a story where all the characters are perfect, and fun to read about.  No long, extended arguments, no long, extended seperations, none of the things that normally drive me nuts in a romance book -- Julie Garwood has made 'The Secret' into romantic perfection.t, and fun to read about.  No long, extended arguments, no long, extended seperations, none of the things that normally drive me nuts in a romance book -- Julie Garwood has made 'The Secret' into romantic perfection.	2002-11-29
US	51635739	R219J1TTSD0DQ1	1884910424	530590226	Novelists Notebook	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Not your traditional writer's workbook.....	So if that sort of thing scares you, check this book out anyways.<br />Let me start out by saying that I loathe the 'How To Write' books that give you corny exercises that have absolutely nothing to do with your book.  You know, the \\"If my character was a flavor of ice cream, he would be ____\\" type things.  Ugh.  I can't see myself working for hours on insipid exercises that have nothing to do with the story I want to tell.<br />That's mostly the reason why I love this book.  It's chock full of exercises, but of the sort that actually PERTAIN to what you want to write. Gasp! Shock!  Laurie Henry has hit the nail on the head exactly with the Novelist's Notebook.  She encourages you to think out your story in phases -- the book is divided into sections : Planning, Beginning to Write, Necessities, Possibilities, When You're Stuck, and Double Checking and Revising.  Basically the idea is to take the idea you have, and to try out different ways of seeing a particular character, theme, or idea.  Expand and revise!  I didn't think I needed help in these areas, and yet I find this book (and continue to find it) immensely helpful.<br />Each page is a different exercise, and I can't think of one that isn't particularly helpful.  Examples :  Write a family tree out, Create an obnoxious character, try writing in a different voice, try a crowd scene, etc.  It sounds average in this review, I know, but the way it's presented in the book is nothing short of wonderful.  Each page is also complete with a quote on writing from famous authors that are just as fun as the writing exercises themselves.<br />On a visual note, this is one of the finest looking writing books I've happened to run across.  Silly to grade a book on this, I know, but you definitely feel like you're getting your money's worth. The book is slimmer than I imagined, and it's hardcover (another thing that surprised me).  Even the paper on the inside is of fairly high quality, and not the glossy type, since you are going to be writing all over this book.  I couldn't have been more pleased with my purchase. You may laugh at me grading this, but given the fact that I carry it around with me everywhere, it is a very classy volume to tote around with you, and not in the least embarassing (unlike those obnoxiously orange Complete Idiot's Guides).oing to be writing all over this book.  I couldn't have been more pleased with my purchase. You may laugh at me grading this, but given the fact that I carry it around with me everywhere, it is a very classy volume to tote around with you, and not in the least embarassing (unlike those obnoxiously orange Complete Idiot's Guides).	2002-11-16
US	51635739	R1TB7ECS3OSNTW	0671737635	931033724	Something Wonderful (The Sequels series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Aptly named -- this book IS Something Wonderful!	Quite possibly one of my favorite Judith McNaught books -- I know, I know, all the reviews here say that, right?  But Judith McNaught really shines in Georgian England, and this book demonstrates that with a story that will make you want to flip the book right over and read it again.<br />It's the story of Alexandra, who we can all relate to.  She's a little too poor, a little too plain, and a little too smart to make it in London's ton, not that she could afford it anyways.  She runs into Jordan Townsende, the jaded Duke of Hawthorne, and is immediately smitten by him (did I mention she's horribly naive?).  Jordan, who is used to having ladies falling all over him, is charmed by just how different tomboyish Alex is from everyone else he knows, and he finds himself having some rather strong feelings for her, despite the fact that he's forced into marrying her.<br />You'd think things would turn out great for these cute kids, except Fate sticks in her fickle hand, and Jordan is lost to his family for over a year, and Alexandra blossoms into a well bred beauty that is the toast of London.  Jordan reappears, and they must decide what to do with themselves now that they are husband and wife again....<br />I feel like I could gush on and on about this book.  Judith McNaught really sucks you in with the way she describes her characters.  You want to reach into the pages and protect Alexandra when she's making a complete fool of herself, and cry along with her when she gets her heart broken -- she's impossible not to like.  And Jordan, well, I don't think there's a woman out there that doesn't want to 'save' Jordan from his misery.  This book certainly tugs on the heartstrings -- I even cried at the ending! And I've already read it four times!	2002-11-08
US	51635739	RA0OBLUAXQHGD	067174383X	369934628	The Taming	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	My favorite Jude Deveraux book of all time!	One of Jude's more overlooked books, 'The Taming' is classic Deveraux, and you definitely won't be disappointed.  Yes, boys and girls, it's even better (in this gal's opinion) than 'Knight in Shining Armor' (though it's a close second).<br />'The Taming' starts out as your typical medieval romance.  Liana Neville is a heiress in need of a husband, but she won't marry just anyone.  She actually sets her sights on Sir Rogan Peregrine, who happens to be the realm's most filthy knight.  Yep, you heard me -- he's dirty and dirt poor.  He's also handsome and smart and treats plain-faced Liana differently than everyone else has -- so she marries him.  Of course, it doesn't turn out just how naive Liana expects it to, and you'll find yourself utterly surprised at this storyline.<br />I suppose the reason that I love this Deveraux book so much is that it's definitely a twist away from the normal.  The castle that poor Liana is shipped off to live in with her husband is an absolute pig-sty (described to a tee, I might add), and the way warlike Rogan treats his silly, gentle wife made me smile--he has NO idea of what to do with her.<br />The other thing I really liked about this book is Liana herself.  Rogan is fairly one-dimensional overall, but Liana is so very NORMAL compared to most romance novel heroines that I found myself loving her.  She's no ravishing beauty or dashing vixen or witty conversationalist.  She's just herself -- naive, a bit spoiled, and head over heels in love with a husband that ignores her.  She reacts exactly as I feel that I might react myself to a lot of situations -- she's very much an 'Everygirl' for those of you that are tired of the too-perfect heroines of other novels.<br />I cannot stress enough how much I enjoy this book (it remains on the top of my list of all time favorites).	2002-11-08
US	51635739	RKMTL15D7FHEA	0553583867	589314413	The Husband Test	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Cute, charming story -- more than just a Husband Test!	This was the first one of Betina Krahn's books that I have ever read.  I thought the premise was interesting enough to warrant trying out a new author, and I'm very glad I did so! On to the basics...<br />The story starts out with Eloise, a novice in a convent.  She's a bit of a thorn in the abbess's side, mostly because she is constantly trying to help out, and in the process making a bigger mess of things.  Peril (don't let the name put you off) is the Earl of Whitmore, who has come to this particular convent for a novice nun to take as a bride.  Just about any bride will do, as long as she's virtuous.  See, he needs a virtuous bride to break the curse on his lands.  Only in the process, he gets saddled with Eloise instead, who has been bidden to give him a 'Husband Test' to find out if he is worthy.  They spark, Eloise starts running his castle (and driving him crazy) and Peril passes the husband test -- and you can guess who becomes his bride!<br />The characters in this book are extremely likeable.  While Peril doesn't have the depth to him that some leading men do, he's likeably gruff enough to pass any standards.  Eloise shines in this book, as the story is told primarily through her eyes.  The tale has enough twists and turns to keep your interest until the very last page, and I found myself disappointed when the story was finished, but only because it was over so fast!  This book is definitely staying on my shelf as a 'keeper'.	2002-10-19
US	51635739	R1B4HU2ECV7KOS	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Utterly fascinating -- the life of a fledgling geisha.	This book had me utterly fascinated from page 1. It surprises me that it's written by a man (no offense to the men out there) because it strikes me as a particularly feminine subject, and it's handled with the utmost of taste and decorum to the feminine sensibilities without being crude. Bravo to the author! I never once doubted his ability to take me deep into the realms of such a feminine story.<br />\\"Memoirs of a Geisha\\" is the story of Chiyo, a young Japanese girl from a poor fishing village. When their family falls on hard times, she and her sister are sold off in Gion, where Chiyo enters into a geisha household because people find her looks fascinating, thanks to her unusual grey eyes. Originally a rebellious, sullen child, we see her transform into a promising, famous geisha under the tutelage of her Older Sister.<br />I'm not sure what I expected from this book, but I didn't expect it to have such a dreamlike quality. The way Gion is described, and the lifestyle of the geisha makes it seem like a world very far away from our own -- it's hard to believe it's half a world away rather than galaxies away. Gion reminded me of a fantasy world, or perhaps even fairy-tale.<br />There were a few things that I didn't like about this book, but they are very minor nitpicks -- you should read it anyways. Every so often, the author leaves the first person point of view to 'teach' you about a particular japanese custom. You can always tell when this is happening because the paragraph will start off with \\"If you don't know what ____ is, let me tell you about it.\\"<br />Storywise, the only thing I really wished the author had included was more of the latter half of Chiyo/Sayuri's life. The entire book seems to lead up to her beginnings as a geisha, and then as soon as she becomes one, it feels like the entire storyline speeds to the end. I guess I would have liked to hear more about her lifestyle after she becomes the big \\"G\\" but perhaps that was interesting only to me.	2002-10-10
US	51635739	R2TTFWKZU2NV7W	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Amazing! I devoured this book (and skipped sleeping!)	I picked this book up on a whim.  I'd never heard of the author, and I normally stick to ones that I like.<br />I am completely blown away.  This is the first book in a very long time that I felt I simply MUST sit down and read and find out what happens.  It's just amazing.<br />The story follows the lesser known of the Boleyn sisters, Mary.  Her early years at court, her romance with the king, her marriage, and her tumultuous love/hate relationship with her sister Anne are all incredibly detailed.  The author wants you to love and hate Anne at the same time, and Mary as well, and somehow you do.  You get to watch first-hand as Anne battles her way past her sister's star at Henry's court only to supplant her, and later fall (as history tells).  Only we see it all from Anne's sister's point of view -- a naive, innocent, well meaning girl that hates herself for betraying those that she loves for the betterment of her all-consuming family.<br />Characterization will make or break a book more often than not.  I found that 'The Other Boleyn Girl' was wonderfully written, and the characters rich and complex.  Mary is simple, but she has layers of duplicity about her, and you can't help but admire her when she discovers her backbone.  Anne is her foil, and you hate her at the same time that you admire her tenacity and fire.  You even understand the (frequently) caricatured figures of Henry VIII, Catherine of Aragon, and Jane Seymour.  On a perspective note, this book is written in first person -- Mary's story -- yet the telling is so rich and watchful that it doesn't hamper the tale one bit.<br />I really loved this book.  I'm off to find out what other gems Philippa Gregory has written lately.  If they are HALF as good as this book, I will be utterly pleased.	2002-09-24
US	51635739	RN1CD3UJCY4UQ	0553801406	988712650	Lake in the Clouds	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Do I love this book? I don't know! I think so!	I love Sara Donati's writing.  I love the Paradise setting and the cast of characters. I can't say positively that I loved Lake in the Clouds, though.  I loved parts of it, and I found myself skipping other parts.<br />I felt that the book was inaccurately named -- it should have been called &quot;Hannah's Story&quot; rather than &quot;Lake in the Clouds&quot;. This book (when not distracted by a storyline about runaway slaves) deals almost entirely with Hannah Bonner's coming of age, and her choices -- is she white, or is she Kahnyenkehaka (that's Mohawk to those not in the know).<br />I was pleased by LitC after reading Dawn on a Distant Shore.  Donati returned to the setting that made her story, and it shines like a jewel in the pages of LitC.  We return to all the foibles and passions of a little town named Paradise set in the wilderness, and the supporting cast are the characters that truly shine in this book.<br />Overall it starts out a bit slower than I anticipated, but by the end I was unable to put it down. Well done, Sara!	2002-09-21
US	51635739	R36LBKRTTHFFV1	0441004326	776626933	Archangel (Samaria, Book 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	By Jovah, I am in LOVE with this book!	Perfect, perfect, perfect.<br />This book has remained on my shelf as one of my all time favorites for several years now. I love the setting, I love the feeling that Shinn gives her angels, I love it all!  It's got that perfect blend of romance and fantasy that you just CRAVE sometimes.  Whenever I do, I pick up this book and lose myself in Samaria for a few days.<br />The story follows Rachel and Gabriel.  Gabriel is about to become Archangel, and Rachel is nothing more than a slave.  Gabriel must find his mate decreed by Jovah so she may sing the Gloria with him on the Plane of Sharon next year, or the world will be thrown into chaos, and the evil Raphael will be able to keep control of the world.<br />Only Gabriel's 'perfect mate' is Rachel, who wants no part of him, and spends alot of her time trying to make his life miserable.  The conflict between the two of them is absolutely wonderful, and I found myself utterly entranced by the minor characters in this book as well (Magdalena!!! Love her!!).<br />If you are hesitating about getting this book, please don't.  My sister found my copy, read it, and promptly went out and bought her own.  She is now part of the 're-reading' club as well.<br />If you love fantasy, read this.  If you love romance, read this.  If you love angels, READ THIS!	2002-09-21
US	51635739	R1BPJE9CS5DFXT	1582970262	190749216	The Writer's Complete Fantasy Reference	Books	4	32	36	N	Y	Great book!  Only lacking in a few areas.	Let me just say that I wasn't sure what to expect when I bought this book.  It's touted as the &quot;Indispensable Compendium of Myth and Magic&quot; and I wasn't quite sure it would hold up to that title.<br />Well, the title is not exactly the most appropriate, but this is still an amazing book!<br />If you're looking for tons of illustrations, in depth descriptions, detailed myths and legends and detailed magic, well, this isn't the book for you, I'm afraid.<br />This book should probably more accurately be called &quot;Real World Historical Tidbits That You Can Cannibalize For Your Own Fantasy Setting&quot;.  That's what it is, really.  And it's a great book for that!<br />Rather than explicit detail on just any one area, this book gives you several different areas which you can start from and continue on from there. Several world cultures from our history are detailed, as well as medieval european occupations and all about witches and wicca.  The chapter on witches is actually extremely compelling.<br />I found the portions I was most interested in -- arms, armor, clothing and castles -- to be a bit more on the fluff side, but still informative.<br />This book could have been improved if it had a few more illustrations (sometimes a brief description just doesn't do it) and a bit more depth in a few areas.  But it's definitely worth buying, no matter what. You will still love this book -- I recommend to lots of people that they pick it up (and they do!).	2002-09-21
US	51635739	R3TJRI310Z3WEG	0486249018	94527248	Captured By The Indians: 15 Firsthand Accounts, 1750-1870	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Riveting stories told by real Indian captives!	This book is such a find!<br />Each 'chapter' in this book is an actual real-life historical narrative of someone that was captured by Indians and returned to 'civilization' to tell their tale.<br />It's interesting to read that quite a few of the stories paint the 'savages' in actually a sympathetic, even likeable light.  Goes to show that one man's savage is another man's hero, doesn't it?<br />At any rate, if you're a fan of historical drama, even if you don't normally read non-fiction, I still recommend picking up this book.  It's a fascinating look into history.	2002-09-21
US	51635739	R2ORX0QQ1AI5QS	0060153385	572078542	The Twelfth Transforming	Books	5	47	49	N	Y	Gedge pulls out all the stops in this book!	And she certainly doesn't talk down to the reader!<br />The Twelfth Transforming is a rather ambitious telling -- that of Akhenaten's reign told from the eyes of his mother, Queen Tiye.  Tiye is a strong, aggressive heroine, and almost always not someone to admire.  Still, she carries the story forward forcefully, and you follow her footsteps from Amunhotep's ending days to Akhenaten's height of power and his eventual downfall.<br />A warning to those not familiar with the storyline out there -- Akhenaten's rule over Egypt was filled with incest.  If this sort of thing will turn you away from the story, then I advise you not to read this.  The author does NOT pull punches in this, and every act is detailed in full depth -- even the ones you think are almost too bad to print.  It creates a dreamlike, ... air over the book, which is exactly what it's supposed to do.  After all, you're not supposed to feel sorry for Akhenaten; you're supposed to hate him. It's nonetheless compelling.<br />Those of you that are fans of historical Egypt should pick this up.  Gedge fans should not HESITATE to pick this up.  I will warn the casual reader though -- if you are looking for light summer reading, I would advise against this book.  The tale is deep, dark and monstrous, but Gedge carries it off to a tee.	2002-09-21
US	51635739	R1UORU4N5WSJB0	0345369947	128741164	The Mummy or Ramses the Damned	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Not normally a Rice fan, but a great book!	Which might clue you in that this is not Anne Rice's normal fare. If you're into that, you might find 'The Mummy' a bit too typical-romancey, too lovey dovey and happy-endingish. Those wanting a bit more adoring love in their dark afterlife will like this tale.<br />This is the story of Ramses the Great, who has drank the elixir of life and is now doomed to live forever without the woman he loved, Cleopatra. For those of you historically inclined out there, don't fret over the timeline. I assure you it's all made quite correct in the story, and you won't mind Ramses meeting Cleopatra meeting the modern heroine Julie. It's sort of a mix of time travel, supernatural, and just plain old romance as well as horror. I didn't think it was possible to mix the four of those together and come up with a book that would please all genres, but here it is.<br />I was completely surprised by this book (bought it on a whim) and I hope you will be too. I'm not normally a follower of Rice's writings, but this turned me around. It's a bit more romancey and fictionesque than her other books, but don't let that stop you. I still thoroughly enjoyed it, and it actually made me go out and buy several of her other books!	2002-09-21
US	51635739	R3KHUJZSTOPZXJ	0441008038	433447844	Summers at Castle Auburn	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	A charming fairy-tale fantasy from one of the best authors!	Don't be fooled by &quot;Summers&quot; 'young-adult' looking cover.  I am 25 years old, and I thoroughly enjoyed Corie's story.<br />I won't go into detail about the story (there's a million reviews that do that).  I did love how Summers at Castle Auburn managed to be a book that I as an adult, could love, as well as any teenage girls out there.  This book is written very much in a 'fairy tale' style.  The kingdom around Castle Auburn is filled with magic and fairies, and there are handsome princes and magical grandmothers as well.<br />I also loved how Shinn managed to wrap a few surprises in the story.  Which I can't spoil for you, but I think you will be pleasantly surprised by the ending, and it's absolutely perfect for the story.<br />In summary:  It's a sweet, fun fairy tale for Adults and Teenagers.  Shinn is wonderful.  Read this book!	2002-09-21
US	51635739	R2O33UPSMHI6X4	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Prepare to be swallowed into George R.R. Martin's world...	I originally picked up this book not really knowing what it was about.  The blurb on the back is, in essence, a bit fluffy and doesn't speak about this book like it should.<br />But as soon as I started reading, I could not put this down!  George R. R. Martin has simply blown me away with this book (and every other book in the series).  Be prepared, because once you dive in, you won't be able to work your way back out!<br />Game of Thrones centers around one family, the Starks of Winterfell.  Each chapter is written from the perspective of a different family member -- Bran, Catelyn, Sansa, Arya, Ned, and Jon Snow.  Instead of having one main character, Martin has a whole slew of them.  Don't let this put you off though--the book is carried through marvellously and you manage to love and hate each one seperately!  Each character is wonderfully fleshed out, and they all act and react together beautifully.<br />The world that Game of Thrones is set in is remarkably detailed as well -- from the Wall to Winterfell to King's Landing.  You will truly believe in the world that he has created.<br />I can't give this book enough high marks -- wish that I could give it 10 stars! It deserves it!	2002-09-21
US	51635739	R200S8NQOX8GRR	0452279216	275791045	The Encyclopedia of Angels: An A-to-Z Guide with Nearly 4,000 Entries	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Lots of information, but where are the illustrations?	Call me crazy, but a few pictures would have made a world of difference in this book.  That's the ONLY complaint I have about this easy to read, easy to carry, easy to love book on angel errata.<br />My boyfriend knows about my freakish obsession with angels, and suggested I buy this.  He was actually right for once!  I found that this book has tons of information, summarized neatly and cross referenced with different spellings of names (in case you're hung up on one in particular).  I liked that the author bolded certain important passages, so you knew just what to look for when skimming.<br />I also liked that the author included next to the names of the angels the meaning of their names (as in Naamah means 'pleasurable').<br />The appendix and bibliography actually have a ton of information in there as well (just in case you weren't looking!).  Cross referenced are all the mentions of angels from the Bible, Koran, and other religious works, as well as a listing of Renaissance paintings dealing with angels.<br />Well worth the money.	2002-09-19
US	51635739	R1CZQYBEUX78MW	0939149850	432962807	Child of the Morning (The Hera Series)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	I am an Egypt freak and this is my favorite book EVER!	Before picking up \\"Child of the Morning\\" I had never read anything by Pauline Gedge.  Imagine my surprise running into this on a random surf through Amazon!  I had never read anything about Hatshepsut (fictionalized), so I bought this right away.<br />I think I blew through this book in one sitting -- I simply could NOT put it down!  The story starts out when Hat is a small girl, and we get to see how her childhood molded who she was, and how she became a strong enough woman to wrestle control of Egypt for herself.  We also get to see inside the mind of Senmut, the we'eb priest she promotes as she ascends to power.<br />There are so many ways that the author could have gone with this book, because alot of Hat's details are lost to time.  She could have made her hate her brother (the Pharaoh), could have made her into a man-hater, etc. I absolutely LOVED the way she planned this book out -- it doesn't disappoint in the slightest. The heroine is so likeable and so very real and complex that you'll feel as if you've always known her.<br />Pauline Gedge has obviously researched her information to a tee, right down to all the major events of the book (trust me, I researched after reading this to find out what was fact and what was fiction).  She manages to weave cold, bland facts into a marvellous storytelling that has instantly catapulted Gedge into being my favorite author.  No one else comes close!<br />I realize I'm being gushy, but when people ask me what book I recommend to them, I always wave my copy of this in their faces.  Everyone that takes my advice adores it.  Trust me when I say it's that good. I re-read it every year and still cry every time.  Trust me when I say you'll be a Pauline Gedge fan for life.	2002-09-19
US	51635739	R2UQPRJ30TIBMR	002907052X	255389394	A Dictionary of Angels: Including the Fallen Angels	Books	5	302	311	N	Y	An Overload of Information About Angels! It's all in here!	If you ever stopped and wondered about the most minute of details about the angelic hierarchy, or maybe the name of a figure in the bible, or what exactly those angels that are in the 7th heaven are referred to, or who the angel of 11 am on Saturday is....<br />Look NO further.<br />This book has more information than any other book in the field.  It simply blows them all away.  I wasn't crazy about the cover art, or the title (I had my doubts) but when I got my grubby hands on my copy, I sat and read this compilation for days on end.<br />The author spent 15 years researching, and that much is painfully obvious from the get go.  Every inkling of angelic reference is carefully detailed here -- even things I've never HEARD of in my (rather large) collection of books.  Davidson has somehow managed to catalog it all into a neat little package.<br />And just when you think the sheer amount of entries in this dictionary is amazing, flip to the back.  That's right, the Appendix.  That's what makes this book amazing, after all.  Not only do you have no less than 3 angelic alphabets, you have detailed listings of all known angels, their positions in Heaven, who was their leader, what hour they guarded over, who fell with Lucifer, and so on and so forth.<br />Shocking amounts of information!  If you are going to get ANY book about angels, I implore you to pick up this one before you go any further!  You'll thank me later.	2002-09-19
US	51635739	R22C22H659BF1C	0028639189	265307693	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Publishing Science Fiction	Books	5	35	36	N	Y	An easy read that explains it all!	Ok, so I'm a bit of a fanatic when it comes to \\"How to Write\\" books.  I buy pretty much all of them that I run across.  Some good, some not so good.<br />This one is definitely one to get!  I find that the \\"Complete Idiot\\" guides are usually written in an easy to read and entertaining format, and this one certainly didn't disappoint me.<br />Written from two authors in the field that, admittedly, I've never heard of, but it wasn't a disappointment in the slightest.  They draw from several different viewpoints, research their facts, and even poke fun at themselves through it all.<br />Nor does this book a bit of fluff to encourage you on.  They lay out the hard facts (not everyone can make a living at writing, sometimes your books don't sell, sometimes you get rejected after 8 years of waiting, etc) without sugarcoating them, and I really appreciate a book that doesn't talk down to me.<br />If you are looking for a book that will tell you how to go from Chapter 1 to the Epilogue and hold your hand the whole way, well, keep on looking.  This book does not particularly focus on HOW to write, but basically what the Sci-Fi/Fantasy world of writers is like.  Hence the title is \\"Publishing\\" not \\"Writing\\" Science Fiction.<br />Fantasy authors, don't be scared away by just Sci-Fi being listed on the cover.  This is for anyone that's contemplating writing speculative fiction.<br />This book is going to stay in my \\"keepers\\" pile! Close at hand!	2002-09-19
US	51635739	RZBI3BMDAGPO2	0345364716	470879212	The Red Heart	Books	5	7	7	N	N	I really really liked this book!	I picked it up having never read anything by Thom before.<br />Well, now I'm hooked!  I didn't realize at first that this was a true story (based on the real-life of Frances Slocum).  To me it just sounded like an interesting premise, the story of a child carried off by Indians.<br />Seeing as how the majority of books out there tend to portray American Indians in a very typical one-dimensional way, I was very pleased to find the characters here three-dimensional and complex, from Tuck-Horse to Minnow with her hatred for men, alcohol, whites, and just about everything in between.  The only thing that disappointed me was that poor Mackonakwa's life (Frances Slocum) is rushed through in the latter half.  The first half of the book is her early years growing up with the indians, while after she meets The Awl, the entire story is rushed through.  A bit disappointing, but still a 5 star book.<br />Rushing out right now to get the rest of Thom's books!	2002-05-13
US	51635739	R4ELME717ANJ6	1560983027	615991190	American Indian Lacrosse: Little Brother of War	Books	5	11	11	N	N	This is a superlative book!	I can't say enough good things about this book! I picked it up while at a book sale and immediately had to have it.  It's full of photographs of American Indian teams and tells you the full story of Lacrosse/baggataway and you get so much more--it's an in-depth look at how it affected the peoples and tidbits about their daily lives.  Interspersed between each chapter are short 'stories' about lacrosse events.<br />This is a great book, and a wealth of information.  It's about more than just lacrosse.  Don't hesitate to get this!	2002-04-20
US	51635739	R1AP57OW2UCTUI	0816624283	729481738	Concise Dictionary of Minnesota Ojibwe	Books	4	5	8	N	Y	This is a great informational book!	As I am researching the Ojibwa peoples currently, I find myself pulling this book out 3-4 times a day, and it has not failed me yet.  The vocabulary covered in this book is simply enormous, and if you're tired of looking at online dictionaries, pick up this book--well worth the cover price.<br />My only complaint is that Ojibwe, being a 'verb-based' language rather than a noun-based like our own, is very hard to piece together in sentances.  There is a tiny chapter at the beginning of this trying to explain it, but it doesn't do a very good job.  Thus it's frustrating to look up one word and find 4 different spellings for it.	2002-04-20
US	51635739	R186C4FPSWUXQP	0816039755	522868420	Atlas of the North American Indian	Books	5	36	39	N	N	I love this book! More than just an Atlas!	They weren't joking when they said this was an exhaustive book, information wise.  It's incredible!  Not only do you have maps of everything from migrations of tribes to peyote usage, you also have chapter after chapter of the different cultural groups, full of details about daily life, wars, conflicts with the white settlers, etc.<br />I use mine for reference--it's an amazing book. Get it!	2002-04-20
US	51635739	R1H2ZR21BY6BF5	0486230198	262457419	How Indians Use Wild Plants for Food, Medicine and Crafts	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Lots of good information	I learned alot from reading this book.  It's fairly short, and has lots of interesting tidbits. Though I feel it should be renamed--it doesn't deal with most indian cultures, but rather the Chippewa Indians, as they are who Frances Densmore made an extensive study of.  The title is a bit misleading.  One thing I felt that would have improved the book would have been a bit more of a clear listing of the information in the book, but then again, it is rather dated material.	2002-04-16
US	51635739	R1TEPD1SPOGLT6	0873511425	803109533	Chippewa Customs (Publications of the Minnesota Historical Society)	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	Great book full of tons of details!	I wasn't sure what I was expecting when I picked up &quot;Chippewa Customs&quot; by Frances Densmore.  Written in the early part of the 20th century, it's a book that has remained readable and certainly enjoyable throughout the years.<br />Frances Densmore paints a very vivid picture of the Chippewa/Ojibwe people, from how they picked their names, to what they wore in winter, to the fact that they liked fish-heads as a delicacy, or the sleeping arrangements inside the family wigwam.  It's absolutely screaming-full of all those little details that you're constantly trying to find but never can seem to put your finger on.<br />They're right here, of course!  My only complaint is that the ceremonies (Marriage, births, etc) are only touched upon barely.  I would have liked to hear more about those particular aspects.	2002-03-06
US	51635739	R1SCVXKO2S41VX	0684856069	827786489	The Many Lives & Secret Sorrows of Josephine B.	Books	5	49	50	N	N	Josephine's life via her diary--fabulous!	I'm not a big fan of the whole 'history via a character's diary' thing.  But I grabbed this book on a whim and was quickly absorbed.  Sandra Gulland makes her Josephine so real and lovable--she's not the out-of-reach French Empress who happened to cheat on Napoleon.  Josephine is actually a very real, warm person with insecurities and loneliness and the same troubles that any of us would have.  Her marriage is rough, she has to move far away from home, she worries about having the money for her children's education.  You laugh, cry, and worry right along with Rose/Josephine.<br />The historical details in this are wonderful as well.  It's obvious that Sandra Gulland put a lot of research into her book, and it certainly pays off.  I immediately ordered the second and third book, and was not disappointed in any of them.<br />I recommend ordering the entire trilogy immediately.  Trust me when I say you'll rip through all three in a record pace.  They're that good.	2002-03-06
US	51635739	R3NVY4S6WCK4ZY	0553578529	391628853	Into the Wilderness	Books	5	13	15	N	N	I am now a Donati Fanatic	When I first picked up this book,  I didn't realize it was a 'sequel' to Last of the Mohicans.  YUCK, I groan, and read it anyways.  About 100 pages in I'm toting the book everywhere with me, reading it on coffee breaks, at traffic jams, on lunch hour, before work, after work, during meetings, etc.<br />You get the idea.<br />The story is your typical sweet 'romance' idea.  City girl moves to the country to teach school and meets a boy.  Only that's where the 'normal' stops and the breathtaking begins.<br />Donati doesn't waste any time.  Directly into the first chapter, we meet Elizabeth and her man, Nathaniel.  Donati's prose is so compelling that you immediately /know/ how she wants her characters pictured just from a few simple words.  Read the opening paragraph again--you'll see what I mean.<br />The characters are what truly make this book memorable.  I laughed at Elizabeth's pert words and ready blushes, and could relate to her unfamiliarness in the wilderness.  I cried at Nathaniel's earnest charm, his teasing humor, and his steadfast loyalty to his family.<br />This is a book where the 'back-scene' characters shine as well.  Hannah is a gem.  Many Doves and Runs-From-Bears will have you starry-eyed over their romance as well.<br />I really can't say enough good things about Sara Donati.  Usually when I take the time to write a review about a book, it's because I dislike it so much I want to warn the other readers away.<br />I want to warn you TOWARDS this one! Run out to the store and get it.  I promise you'll love it.	2002-01-27
