US	51636151	RDC9SNCI2G438	0440237130	25356256	Whirlwind Affair	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Regency Romance at it's Best	Fans of Jacquie D'Alessandro novels were first introduced to Lord Robert Jamison in Ms. D'Alessandro's novel, WHIRLWIND WEDDING, when his older brother Austin, the Duke of Bradford, married the American Elizabeth Matthews.  WHIRLWIND AFFAIR features Lord Robert Jamison as the hero and Elizabeth's childhood friend, Alberta (Allie) as the heroine in a humorous romantic mystery of the first order!<br />We first encounter the widow, Mrs. Alberta Brown, as her ship the Seaward Lady is docking in London after a three-month voyage from America.  During the voyage, Allie experienced a number of \\"accidents\\", and although she doesn't know why anyone would want to harm her, she has some suspicions that they were not accidents but that she was deliberately pushed down the stairs, pushed overboard and poisoned.<br />Allie made the trip to England for a six week visit at Bradford Hall the home of her friend, Elizabeth, who is expecting her second child. But before Allie goes to Bradford Hall she plans to conclude personal business that involves her deceased husband's hidden life of crime, blackmail and thievery.  She discovered her late husband's criminal deeds only after he was killed in a duel three years before.   By selling everything she owned and living in near poverty she repaid all the people her husband had robbed.  There remains one item to return to its rightful owner and that is a coat of arms ring, which she believes is from England.<BR> <BR>Elizabeth gave Lord Robert a sketch of her friend and asked that he meet her at the dock and escort her to Bradford Hall.  Lord Robert is quite taken with the beautiful laughing woman in the sketch, but when he meets Mrs. Alberta Brown she bears little resemblance to that woman.  While in London, and staying at the Duke's townhouse, Alberta is abducted, the townhouse is burglarized several times and Lord Robert, Alberta and the Duke's household staff are in danger.  Lord Robert, who is completely enchanted by the beautiful widow,vows to protect her and see her safely to Bradford Hall.  However, he is quite sure that Mrs. Brown knows more then she is telling him about the series of crimes that have taken place since she arrived in London.   Although he suspects there are secrets in her past, it does not stop him from being passionately attracted to her and aware of her attraction toward him.  Alberta continues to wear black mourning dresses three years after the death of her husband.  Lord Robert, of course, believes the reason for her extended mourning is her great love for her deceased husband, David, when in reality Alberta continues to wear black to keep away prospective suitors.  Alberta has sworn she will never marry again and does not trust any man. But the passionate tension and attraction continues to build between them and as they finally arrive at Bradford Hall, Alberta suggests to Lord Robert that perhaps they might have an affair rather then plan on anything more \\"permanent\\".  <br />The combination of mystery, danger, humor and blossoming romance (to say nothing of the heated passion between these two characters) keeps the reader riveted until the last page.  This is Regency Romance at it's very best and I highly recommend WHIRLWIND AFFAIR to anyone who enjoys historical romances.	2002-12-01
US	51636151	R25BRV4SLKLS1Y	0399148779	18749417	Eleventh Hour (An FBI Thriller)	Books	2	14	19	N	N	A Toss Up	Father Michael Joseph Carver is murdered while hearing the late night confession of a murderer.  Unknown to the murderer, a young homeless woman was waiting in the shadows of the church to speak with Fr. Carver and witnessed the murderer's exit from the confessional.  The woman is Nicola (Nick) Jones who is on the run from a mysterious past and who does not wish to be connected with Fr. Carver's murder.  Fr. Carver's twin brother, FBI Special Agent Dane Carver, is working with the local police to find his brothers killer.  Dane personally takes Nick into protective custody when it becomes apparent that someone is trying to kill Nick.  They discover that the killer is using the scripts of a popular television show to commit the murders.  Dane calls in fellow FBI agents, Dillon and Sherlock Savitch to assist him in keeping Nick alive and finding the killer. <br />This is the first Catherine Coulter book I have read.  The story line is good and there are multiple mysteries going on at the same time that kept me interested and guessing until the end.  However, the interaction between the weakly built characters was astoundingly trite.  The dialogue was embarrassingly silly and amateurish.   It remains a toss up as to whether the plot and story line are good enough to offset the characters and the dialogue.	2002-09-19
US	51636151	RJFOJHYJA67QN	0821773380	40287110	Falling Home	Books	5	47	51	N	N	Falling Home is Real and it has Heart	It's rare that I am moved to tears when reading a book.  Movies can often make me cry but books, almost never.  Falling Home managed to reduce me to tears but that is certainly not why I loved this story and it is not my criteria for what constitutes a great book.  But when a book can elicit that kind of emotional response from me it's because the story is well written, it's real and it has heart.  <br />Cassie Madison has spent 15 years in Manhattan building an enviable and powerful career in advertising.  She hadn't spoken to her younger sister, Harriet, in those years since Harriet ran off and married the love of Cassie's life.   During her absence Cassie kept in touch with her father and would meet him in Atlanta for a weekend once a year but refused to return to her hometown of Walton. Cassie believes she has outgrown the small town life and has become a big city snob. The story begins when Cassie must return to Walton after receiving a phone call from her sister with the news that their father is dying.<br />Cassie leaves Manhattan, her job and her fiancé, Andrew, to return to Walton to see her father for the last time.  After arriving in Walton one of the first people Cassie meets is the town doctor, Dr. Sam Parker, one of her childhood friends.  Sam is no longer the nerdy, goofy kid she knew but has morphed into an incredibly gorgeous hunk and one of the towns most loved and respected citizens.  There are surprises, mysteries, and twists in this book that kept me reading until 4:30 a.m. on more then one night.  I could not put this book down!  There is hardly an emotion that isn't played on in this story about returning home, old hurts and heartbreak, growing up, letting go, learning what is really important in life and finding one's heart.<br />Karen White's first book, In the Shadow of the Moon, convinced me that she is an author whose books I will always look forward to reading and re-reading.  Falling Home contains the excellent character development, story line, twists and turns and emotional depth that Ms. White consistently creates in her work.  Those who read her work will not be disappointed and will ultimately become fans.	2002-08-16
US	51636151	R3R0DHV18GTR26	0440237122	486589927	The Bride Thief	Books	5	14	15	N	N	This is a &quot;Must Read&quot;!	Samantha Briggeham is independent and unconventional (she is often referred to as &quot;eccentric&quot; by those who know her) for any century, but she happens to be living in 1820 when young women often find themselves in arranged marriages and being &quot;independent&quot; is not something that is encouraged in a young woman. <br />Samantha's father, Charles Briggeham, believes Major Wilshire is perfect for Samantha and has made the arrangements for her to marry.  Samantha, who enjoys reading and carrying on scientific experiments with her younger brother, Hubert, has other ideas and they do not include being married off to the dour Major Wilshire, who she considers a &quot;tiresome dolt&quot;.  Although Samantha's three younger sisters are married and seem to be happy, Samantha has no desire for the married life especially to a man she does not love.  <br />Samantha decides that since she can't convince her father that she is not suitable marriage material, she will speak to Major Wilshire and convince him.  Samantha's meeting with Major Wilshire is successful and he is quite sure he doesn't want to marry such a &quot;strange&quot; woman.  When Samantha is returning home from her meeting with the Major, she is kidnapped by a masked man on horseback.  The mysterious masked rider is the infamous &quot;Bride Thief&quot; who rescues ladies from arranged and unwanted marriages.   Samantha is terrified, then intrigued, by the mysterious kidnapper and she explains to him that she is no longer in danger of being married off since she had just convinced Major Wilshire that she is completely unsuitable for marriage.   The Bride Thief returns Samantha to her home and news of her adventure spreads rapidly through the social circles making Samantha a much sought after guest at numerous parties.<br />At one of the parties Samantha attends she meets the Earl of Wesley, Eric Landsdowne.  Samantha is very intrigued by the Earl and finds him to be somewhat familiar to her in his mannerisms and speech.  The Earl of Wesley and the Bride Thief are one and the same person.  Samantha is unaware of the earl's secret identify and finds herself inexplicably drawn and attracted to him. Sadly, she feels he is much too good looking and sought after by too many women to be interested in someone like her. <br />Ms. D'Alessandro's books are always filled with witty scenarios and dialog as well as heart warming scenes and this book is no exception to that rule. The Bride Thief is one of the best of Ms. D'Alessandro's books, perhaps the best or at least it's a tie between The Bride Thief and Whirlwind Wedding.  <br />The Bride Thief won't disappoint Jacquie D'Alessandro fans it will only add weight to the conviction that Jacquie D'Alessandro is one of today's hot regency romance writers!	2002-03-29
US	51636151	R24AJO569OAH9U	0399148248	358896248	Midnight Bayou	Books	5	9	11	N	N	This book is Fantastic	Midnight Bayou<BR>Nora Roberts<br />Declan Fitzgerald leaves his job as a Boston lawyer to buy a house--Manet Hall--that he first discovered in New Orleans 11 years ago. The house hasn't been lived in for some time and needs renovation.  Declan finds his joy in restoring the old mansion.  There's a sad history to the mansion, however, and Declan begins to experience strange dreams and starts sleepwalking.  He finds himself terrified to enter one of the rooms on the third floor.   Declan meets Lena, the owner of a small bar in down town New Orleans.  He is immediately attracted to her and thinks, \\"at last\\" the first time he sees her. Lena and Declan are both linked to the history of Manet Hall as well as to each other. Lena's grandmother lives behind Manet Hall and Declan befriends her.  She is a wonderful character.  Declan has a terrific personality and sense of humor. This is definitely one of my favorite Nora Robert's books. Being interested in reincarnation and past lives added to the flavor.  I must admit I was surprised when I discovered what the subject of the book was but I think Ms. Roberts handled it in a believable manner.  Definitely a keeper.	2002-01-14
US	51636151	R3SB5R243PWD5O	039914739X	683788691	Isle of Dogs	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Why?	My only reaction to Patricia Cornwell's &quot;Isle of Dogs&quot; is to ask &quot;why did she write this? and why did I read it&quot;?  Certainly I could have done other things with my time.  I continued reading through this truly boring, stupid book only because I kept thinking &quot;it's got to get better&quot;...no, it doesn't.  I am a fan of the Kay Scarpetta novels and listened to one of the Andy Brazil novels on tape and that was so-so but this... If only I had logged onto Amazon and read some of these reviews before I bought this book.  I won't read another one of Patricia Cornwell's novels unless it's a Kay Scarpetta.	2002-01-09
US	51636151	R3I23R2XBRB6TC	0373441223	995429976	The Life Of Riley / Naked In New England (Harlequin Duets, No 56)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Funny and light contemporary romance	I found Naked in New England by Jacquie D'Alessandro a breath of fresh air!  Very funny throughout the story.  Architect Ryan Monroe has just landed a big project that could sky rocket his career.  He needs quiet and seclusion to work on the plans for this project so he borrows his friends vacation cabin while his friend, Dave, is on his honeymoon.  Unfortunately, Dave's bride Carmen, has hired an interior decorator to redecorate the cabin as a surprise wedding gift for Dave.  The interior decorator, Lynne Waterford, has already moved into the cabin when Ryan arrives.  Ryan and Lynne are instantly attracted to each other but both have their careers as a priority and not getting involved!  Lynne's friend, Killer, is a riotously funny character. All in all the book is funny and highly recommended to all those who enjoy romantic comedy.	2002-01-09
US	51636151	R31PPL135OWQNZ	0385315279	983256815	The Fiery Cross	Books	2	21	23	N	N	What Happened?	Having read the all the books in the Outlander series by Diana Gabaldon, and the Outlandish Companion, I could hardly contain my excitement when The Fiery Cross was finally released.  However, if this had been the first book in the series I would never have read the next four.  <br />It's already been said many times in the other reviews I have read here that the book is slow and plodding so I won't bother.  The biggest annoyance to me was the way a scene or topic was developed up to a point and then dropped.  The next chapter began with something entirely different and I was left hanging wondering what on earth happened.<br />The love between Jamie and Claire is still enchanting but there is no doubt that it has moved on to a different level.  I saw glimpses of the Jamie from the previous novels but he doesn't seem to be the same man he was.  I haven't liked the character Brianna since she was first introduced.  I like her less in The Fiery Cross.  She is a spoiled brat and treats Roger like she doesn't really love him at all.  Roger walks around on eggshells because he's always afraid of making Brianna angry.  Roger's character was developed more in this book and I seem to like him more when he isn't with Brianna.  Unfortunately, Roger seems so intimidated by Jamie that he barely speaks to him or perhaps he's competing with Jamie on some level.<br />Even having said all that I will still read the last installment of this wonderful series and hope that it is more satisfying.	2001-12-23
US	51636151	R397XMQMXSWJPC	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Stephen King is Definitely Back	The first Stephen King book I ever read was &quot;It&quot;. The book was among a pile of books brought into the office where I worked and they were all up for grabs. Not being a fan of horror movies, or horror books for that matter, I wondered why I even picked it up. I began reading &quot;It&quot; that night and was not only pleasantly surprised but I was hooked. People who haven't read any of King's books might not realize that he has a kind of dry, wry and somewhat warped sense of humor that makes me laugh out loud. The expressions that his characters use are clever and funny and have a way of letting the reader know more about the character who uses them. King always includes lyrics from some old rock and roll songs in his books. &quot;Dreamcatcher&quot; is no exception. The Rolling Stones song &quot;Sympathy for the Devil&quot; has a part in the book and one of the main characters, Henry Devlin, has a fixation on the lyric, &quot;Hello darkness my old friend...&quot; from another oldie.<br />&quot;Dreamcatcher&quot; is the story of four childhood friends who grew up in Derry, Maine. Henry, Beaver, Jonesy and Pete. As teenagers the four boys happened upon Duddits, a Down syndrome boy, who is being cruelly taunted by a group of older boys. The four pals come to the rescue of Duddits chasing off the bullies in an amazing show of courage and toughness that surprises even them. They immediately like Duddits and the five become friends. After saving Duddits, who is a dreamcatcher, the four are telepathically linked.<br />The four friends have continued to stay in touch and they get together yearly to go hunting and stay in Beaver's cabin, Hole in the Wall. Now in their late 30's each is going through life problems. Henry, a psychiatrist, is contemplating suicide (hello darkness my old friend); Beaver, who has always been the group's comedian and entertains with his colorful, creative and funny cursing, is having relationship problems; Pete is over the line into alcoholism; and Jonesy is recovering from hip surgery after being hit by a car. Through Jonesy Stephen King relates to the reader his painful real-life ordeal of being hit by a car and suffering through the recovery.<br />It's on their hunting trip that they encounter the aliens through a man named McCarthy who Jonesy nearly shoots as a bear. McCarthy has been implanted with an alien creature that erupts from his body (I dare not tell from where) and attacks Beaver. Jonesy's mind is invaded by an alien he calls Mr. Gray and he builds himself a mental warehouse storeroom where he hides from the alien. Of course, Mr. Gray knows he's there but he can't get into the storeroom to completely take over Jonesy's mind.<br />Everyone who is exposed to the aliens becomes telepathic and much of the dialog takes place through each characters mind. Since the four friends already experience telepathic communication the alien influence just boosts their powers and they communicate with each other through all their separate trials. <br />&quot;Dreamcatcher&quot; is a return of the Stephen King we've all become accustomed to reading. It has colorful and vulnerable characters, ferocious aliens, an insane military leader, the love and bonding of childhood friends, a race-to-the-finish story line and a satisfying ending.	2001-09-15
US	51636151	R3NOYQXCUWEMFZ	067179938X	457341957	Son of the Morning (Pocket Books Romance)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	An Incredible Story	Linda Howard's Son of the Morning is a book that I will keep and no doubt read again, which I don't often do.  Having just completed the series by Diana Gabaldon, Outlander, and wondering what I would read while waiting for the next book in the series, I decided to read Son of the Morning.<br />Once I read the first few pages I was hooked on this book.  For those of you not familiar with the Outlander series it's a time-travel Scottish romance and Son of the Morning is also a time-travel Scottish romance.  That is where the similarity ends because Linda Howard has written a book that stands on it's own merit.<br />The main character is a woman, Grace St. John, who translates ancient manuscripts for Parrish Sawyer the head of an archaeological foundation.  Grace is currently translating documents from the 14th century concerning a group of monks called the Knights of the Templar and their mysterious treasure.  They were monks but they were also warriors, the best and most fierce warriors in the land.  Thus far Grace has translated enough of the documents to know that King Philip and Pope Clement executed and tortured many of the Knights of the Templar in 1307 to find and gain control of their gold and the legendary treasure.  The Grand Master of the Knights ordains that the best warrior of the Order, Niall of Scotland, will watch over and protect the treasures.  Niall, or Black Niall as he is called, establishes a strong hold in Creag Dhu, a castle in Scotland to hide and protect the treasure and he is known as The Guardian.<br />Grace's life suddenly and violently changes when she witnesses Parrish Sawyer murder her husband Ford and her brother Bryant.  She over hears Sawyer's plan to find and murder her as well to get the documents she is translating.  Grace begins a year of running for her life from Parrish Sawyer and his hired assassins.  While Grace is struggling to survive in the street and hide from her pursuers she knows she must finish translating the documents so she can discover what is in them that Sawyer was willing to kill for.  Grace goes through a major transformation while she is in hiding and struggling to survive.<br />After Grace completes the translation and learns the secret of the documents she knows she must travel back in time to the 14th century to Creag Dhu and Niall of Scotland in order to stop the Foundation from finding the secret treasure and using it for their evil ends.  Since time travel was one of the secret powers of the Knights of the Templar, the documents contained detail instructions on how to travel back in time.<br />I literally could not put this book down.  It's exciting, intriguing and adventurous.  The reader is taken back and forth between the 14th century with Niall and present day with Grace's hair-raising narrow escapes from the killers.<br />I highly recommend Son of the Morning to anyone who enjoys time travel stories, adventure, and romance.  And especially to readers who are fans of the Outlander series, I promise you'll love this book!cuments so she can discover what is in them that Sawyer was willing to kill for.  Grace goes through a major transformation while she is in hiding and struggling to survive.<br />After Grace completes the translation and learns the secret of the documents she knows she must travel back in time to the 14th century to Creag Dhu and Niall of Scotland in order to stop the Foundation from finding the secret treasure and using it for their evil ends.  Since time travel was one of the secret powers of the Knights of the Templar, the documents contained detail instructions on how to travel back in time.<br />I literally could not put this book down.  It's exciting, intriguing and adventurous.  The reader is taken back and forth between the 14th century with Niall and present day with Grace's hair-raising narrow escapes from the killers.<br />I highly recommend Son of the Morning to anyone who enjoys time travel stories, adventure, and romance.  And especially to readers who are fans of the Outlander series, I promise you'll love this book!	2001-07-16
US	51636151	R347XQRJTR9YWB	0312265840	198558647	Seven Up (Stephanie Plum, No. 7) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A Fun Read	The latest in the series of Stephanie Plum novels, Seven Up, is a quick read and enjoyable.  Mooner, the character introduced in the last installment, Hot Six, plays a bigger role in Stephanie's life and he is an amusing character, \\"Dude\\" being about all he contributes to the dialog.  Joe Morelli, hunk cop and Stephanie's love interest, also plays a larger role as he and Stephanie toy with the idea of getting married.  Grandma Mazur and Stephanie's mother enthusiastically encourage the wedding.  Stephanie and her sidekick, Lula, have some amusing escapades especially while riding on a Harley Low Rider Hog. <br />Stephanie is on assignment to bring in an elderly semi retired mob member Eddie DeChooch.  Eddie was caught smuggling cigarettes through Trenton and failed to show for his court appearance.  Lula and Stephanie quickly find out that bringing in the old guy isn't going to be as easy as they thought.  To complicate matters, Mooner and his friend Dougie The Dealer disappear sending Stephanie off trying to track them down and figure out the connection between DeChooch and her two goofy friends.<br />A Plum novel wouldn't be complete without the gorgeous and mysterious Ranger bounty hunter extraordinaire.  Stephanie calls Ranger for help to bring in DeChooch and the heat is turned up on the relationship between Ranger and Stephanie with a very nice surprise at the end of the book that I'm sure readers have been waiting for. <br />The book was a fun read, although Seven Up did not deliver the laugh-out-loud lines and scenarios that previous Plum novels have, it was amusing.  For readers who follow the Stephanie Plum series, this is a must read.  For those who have not read any previous novels in the series, I would suggest starting with the first book, One for the Money and working through all the books in order.  It's worth it, especially Four to Score, which is my favorite Plum novel and had me laughing to tears.	2001-07-07
US	51636151	RE7QW57GOJZCN	044022425X	173145556	The Drums of Autumn	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Drums of Autumn	The fourth in the Outlander series, Drums of Autumn begins in Charleston in 1767 where Claire, Jamie, Fergus and Ian begin a journey to find Jamie's Aunt Jocasta who owns a plantation in North Carolina.  As with the previous three novels in this series, Diana Gabaldon weaves stories within stories creating a rich tale of adventure, suspense and love.  <br />In Drums of Autumn Brianna, Jamie and Claire's daughter travels back in time to find her parents to warn them of disaster in their future.  Brianna found a story in an old newspaper telling of the death of Jamie and Claire Fraser in a house fire.  Roger Wakefield, Brianna's sometime boyfriend, also found the story.  Roger decided not to tell Brianna for fear she would attempt to go back in time to warn her parents.  When Roger learns that Brianna has done exactly that, he follows her through the stones back to 18th century Scotland.    Brianna finds her way to Lollybrach and meets Jenny, Jamie's sister, and Ian and all the children.  This is a wonderful part of the book where the reader can appreciate and feel the amazing connection between past and future, gave me the chills just reading it.<br />Roger eventually catches up with Brianna in the colonies after Roger's most arduous ocean crossing.  I do agree with several of the other reviewers who feel that Brianna's character is a bit weak.  I haven't caught on to, or much liked, Brianna at all since the first introduction of her character.   Brianna does not have the depth or heart that Claire has and comes off as a self-centered child in many ways.  <br />Brianna and Roger each have their own separate adventures and each is intertwined with Jamie and Claire's.  Lord John Grey appears again to play an integral role in Brianna's life.  The character of Lord Grey is one of my favorites as he is a man of honor.  <br />In Drums of Autumn Jamie is not the ferocious warrior, nor the persecuted prisoner; he's a farmer and a builder.  Although it was a relief of sorts not to endure any floggings or near-death misadventures, it seemed as though Jamie was out of his element having been removed from Scotland.  Nonetheless, this book was everything the previous books were in it's own way.  Diana Gabaldon has succeeded in continuing the `love that spans time' between Jamie and Claire and has added more depth to their relationship.  <br />This series is one of the best I have read.  I was overjoyed to discover the 5th in the series, The Fiery Cross, has already been released already so I won't have to wait to continue this engrossing saga.	2001-07-04
US	51636151	R2MZFV4IB21K4A	0440217563	685230282	Voyager: A Novel (Outlander)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	This series keeps getting better	This third book in the historical Scottish trilogy by Diana Gabaldon was as riveting and intense as the previous two installments.  I will admit to dragging myself through the first couple hundred pages, however, there were enough interesting and engaging segments in those first chapters to keep the fire of interest alive.<br />The beginning of the book switches back and forth between 1746 in Scotland with Jamie Fraser's post-war life and 1968 in Scotland with Claire, Brianna and Roger Wakefield undertaking the historical search for traces of Jamie Fraser and what might have become of him after the war. <br />Brianna, Jamie's daughter, finds the proof of Jamie's life as a printer in Edinburgh years after the battle at Culloden.  Claire then makes her decision to, once again, step through the Druid stone circle at Craigh na Dun and back into the 18th century to find Jamie.<br />The reunion between Claire and Jamie was everything a reader could ever possibly want in a novel and more.   Ms. Gabaldon anchors the love story with a strong element of believability, regardless of the time-travel aspects of the story.  Claire and Jamie have little time together before being thrown into danger, mystery and mayhem.   Several surprises await the reader with twists and turns that had me commenting a loud to myself!  As the title would indicate, much of the book takes place on a ship as Jamie and Claire are bound for the West Indies in a daring rescue attempt. Several characters from the previous novels reappear, some in ways that are delightful surprises.  Others return in devious deadly plots.<br />Although I have read over 3,000 pages of this story I am not yet tired of it.  The characters of Claire and Jamie are still strong and continue to hold my interest.  This is one of those stories that I do not want to see end for when it does, I will miss Claire and Jamie terribly.  The next book, Drums of Autumn, promises to be perhaps the best of the trilogy.  <br />I most certainlyrecommend this series to readers enjoying adventure, time-travel and romance.  I would, however, recommend beginning with the first book in the series, Outlander, and then reading the second, Dragonfly in Amber.	2001-06-03
US	51636151	R2JU5KL3T380OY	0440215625	983256815	Dragonfly in Amber: A Novel (Outlander)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Mystery, Adventure and Time Travel...what more could I want?	The second book of the trilogy (the first book was Outlander) has Claire and Jamie Fraser in France attempting to thwart the efforts of Prince Charles to regain the throne, in an effort to avoid the slaughter that Claire knows will come at Culloden.<br />The book begins when Claire Randall, now a doctor living in America, has returned to Scotland after Frank's death.  She has brought her daughter, Brianna, with her and hopes to find a way to tell her about her real father.  First meeting Brianna, I'm not yet too fond of her.  After all we have experienced with Claire and Jamie, Brianna comes as a bit of a disappointment.  Hopefully in the next book, Voyager, Brianna will become more likeable.<br />It's 1968 and this is Claire's first visit back to Scotland since she and husband Frank visited 22 years before--the time when she walked through a Druid stone circle and into the middle of the 18th century. <br />Claire wants to learn if Jamie was successful in his quest to save his men (the men of Lollybroch) from the slaughter at Culloden where Prince Charles and the Highlanders met the English for the final battle of the war.   It is during the telling of the story to her daughter of her time travel back to 18th century Scotland, that we the readers, experience the story of this second book in the trilogy.  <br />Claire believes that Jamie died at the battle of Culloden and when she accidentally stumbles upon his grave in present day Scotland, she is confused as to why he would be buried so far from the battle field.  That particular scene is most heart wrenching and Ms. Gabaldon, as we have come to know, has the ability to draw the reader into the emotions experienced by the heroine.  <br />There is a new character introduced in this second book, Roger Wakefield, the adopted son of the local pastor of Inverness.  Claire and Frank had met the pastor during their first stay in the small town.  Roger, at that time, was a young boy.  The pastor has recently died and Rogeris in the process of closing up the pastor's house when Claire arrives in Scotland in 1968 and seeks Roger's help to discover what happened to the men of Lollybroch.  Roger's connection to 18th century Scotland will surprise the reader in one of many of the twists and turns in this book.<br />I am totally immersed in this saga of historical Scotland, the timeless connection and passionate love of Claire and Jamie.  This second in the series was as good, if not better, then the first.  I simply can't wait to begin the third book, Voyager, to continue this wonderful story.  It truly captures the imagination and those readers who love time travel, history, courage, daring and mystery will want to read this series of books.	2001-05-10
US	51636151	R1AHG7KR26VHFM	0515128554	608776329	Heart of the Sea  (Irish Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Conclusion of a Wonderful Irish Trilogy	The first two books in this wonderful Irish trilogy, Jewels of the Sun and Tears of the Moon, introduce all the members of the Gallagher clan along with Gwen, the beautiful ghost that appears first to Jude, then to Brenna and now to Trevor Magee, and Carrick the faerie prince who is impatiently waiting for the third Gallagher to fall in love to put an end to the curse he cast when his true love, Lady Gwen, refused his offerings of jewels.<br />This book centers on Darcy Gallagher, the last single Gallagher, and her blossoming romance with rich and gorgeous Trevor Magee.  Trevor's ancestors were from Ardmore but left Ireland many years before never to return. Both Darcy and Trevor believe they are unable to love.  Trevor Magee is in Ireland to build a music theater, which will be part of the Gallagher Pub.    Trevor sees Darcy as a woman caring for nothing but money and a way to travel the world beyond Ardmore and the family pub.  But, aside from her beauty and her arrogance, which fascinates Trevor, he sees a market for her beautiful singing voice. He knows he could make her famous.  Trevor and Darcy have more then their share of upheaval but in the end both admit their love and as they do, Prince Carrick and Lady Gwen are reunited.<br />I was sad to see this beautiful story end but I was satisfied with the outcome.  I wished there were more depth to the ending as far as Carrick and Lady Gwen's reunion, but overall the book was wonderful and a happy ending for all the Gallagher's and their chosen mates.  Nora Robert's never disappoints me.	2001-04-17
US	51636151	R3I1IYPQK7I62P	0505523957	176741781	In the Shadow of the Moon (Timeswept Series)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Stunner!	A time travel romance that is beyond any I have read before!  Amazingly, this is Karen White's first novel.  I didn't know that until I finished the book and went to her website to write to her and tell her how much I enjoyed \\"In the Shadow of the Moon\\".<br />The book centers on Laura Truitt and a strange lunar eclipse combined with a comet.  Laura travels back to the Civil War era in search of her daughter.  Here she meets Stuart Elliott and his family.  This book kept me enthralled as Laura attempts to blend with the era she finds herself in and at the same time find her way back to the twentieth century.   I had to laugh as Laura stuns and surprises Civil War era men with the independent spunk of a twentieth century woman.  This book is a keeper and I will read it again, which I rarely do.  Readers who enjoy romance, time-travel and edgy excitement will positively love this book!	2001-04-17
US	51636151	R2M9XGEHME2CH1	0440212561	983256815	Outlander	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Time-travel, Romance and History...what more could you want!	I am a fan of time travel novels.  I picked up \\"Outlander\\" at a flea market recently.  When I got into the book I was riveted and fell in love with Claire and Jaime.   Claire's travel back to 18th century Scotland opens the reader up to a world of history that is fascinating and intriguing.  The love between Claire and Jaime Fraser is breathtaking and I found myself hoping she never returns to post-war Scotland.  I found that I didn't like Claire's present day husband all that much, especially after meeting Captain Randall in 18th century Scotland, an ancestor of her husband's.  Ms. Gabaldon's characters have such strength of character and courage, enduring the hardships of Scotland in the 18th century, it made me wonder what I ever have to complain about!  I was sorry to see this epic end.  The good news was when I went to amazon.com I found that this was the first of 4 books in the saga!  I order the other 3 books from amazon and I am now reading the second of the series, \\"Dragonfly in Amber\\".  Outlander is a fabulous book about the extraordinary courage of a woman and a romantic love that spans the centuries.  A must read for all lovers of historical, romance and time travel novels!	2001-04-17
US	51636151	R26B1JNQ62T827	0425178579	127101612	Betrayal in Death	Books	5	3	3	N	N	They keep getting better	This latest in the &quot;In Death&quot; series does not disappoint.  Eve Dallas as the NY cop, in futuristic 2059, is tough as ever and satisfies all those who enjoy women who can hold their own in a man's domain.  Roarke is as sexy as ever (and still a billionaire) and in this latest book Eve gets the chance to pay back to Roarke some of the tender loving care he always gives to her.  Each installment of this series adds a new dimension to the relationship between Roarke and Eve as they come up on their first year of marriage.  The budding relationship between McNab and Peabody gets more interesting and while there's more heat going on there, Eve and Feeney (McNab's boss), do everything they can to ignore it.  The main focus of the story, of course, is the case.  Eve is tracking a contract killer that even the FBI hasn't been able to catch for 25 years.  All the in's and out's of the case, Roarke trying to help with his 'unregistered' computer equipment, and a visit from one of Roarke's boyhood friends from Dublin, make &quot;Betrayal in Death&quot; as good, if not better, then all the previous books in this series.	2001-04-17
US	51636151	R26JK6TIH14Q5E	0399147128	900032230	The Villa	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Nora Roberts does it again!	The Villa is a wonderful story of winemaking in the California Napa Valley and family bonds and conflict.  Sophia Giambelli is the granddaughter of the Giambelli wine dynasty and the head of marketing for the company.  Tyler MacMillan is the grandson of the MacMillan wine company and Ty is in charge of the vines, the grapes, the harvest. Ty and Sophia, who have grown up together in the wine business, are thrown together in a torrid attraction and competitive business rivalry.  The women in Giambelli family are all strong, determined businesswomen and know how to handle themselves. Tereza Giambelli, the family matriarch, heads the Giambelli women and the winery.  There are business rivals, murders and surprises in this book.  Twists and turns villians and heroes.  The Villa is a great mystery and romance all at the same time.  Anyone who likes Nora Roberts will love this book, she doesn't disappoint us.	2001-04-14
US	51636151	R2N0ZGLGO61FLO	0425176304	618962370	Judgment in Death	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Best Yet!	This latest in the \\"...in Death\\" series from J.D. Robb (Nora Roberts) each story in this series gets better and better.  The story begins when a murder is committed in a high-class strip club.  The victim is an off-duty detective who was working part time as a bartender in the club.<br />Lieutenant Eve Dallas is on the case and she isn't becoming popular with her fellow cops during the investigation.   In this book J. D. Robb has given Roarke, Eve and the other recurring cast of characters (McNab, Peabody, Dr. Mira, Mavis and Summerset) a bit more of a sense of humor.  Some of the lines are LOLer's, which I never expect in a J. D. Robb book.  <br />The strategy used in the book of finding the killer is riveting.  There's a really nasty villain that all readers will love to hate and, of course, Eve and Roarke's relationship just keeps getting better and better.  Eve is developing as a character with more depth, softness and humor.  Of course, we wouldn't want Eve to get too soft since kicking butt is what she is all about.<br />A great read and a terrific addition to this remarkable and entertaining series.	2001-04-14
US	51636151	R1BYJIA0KRTN8P	0425168131	14193917	Conspiracy in Death	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The &quot;...in Death&quot; series always delivers!	The fantastic \\"...in Death\\" series continues in this latest book Conspiracy in Death.  Eve Dallas has to solve a series of murders.  The murders are perpetrated on the homeless and prostitutes.   In each murder the bodies are found missing vital internal organs. A cop named Bowers, who has an intense and irrational hatred for Eve, further complicates the case. <br />The book also reveals more of Eve's past.  The steamy relationship between Eve and millionaire Roarke continues to dazzle the reader with Roarke's unending passion and love for Eve.  Eve seems not able to understand why this man is so in love with her, which only adds to the readers enjoyment.<br />If you haven't read the other books in the series do.  Start with the first one, Naked and Death, and read them all, they're all great.	2000-10-25
US	51636151	R2ZE5CKNXUNU0L	042517140X	776192522	Loyalty in Death	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Loyalty in Death...you won't be disappointed in this one!	The latest addition to the \\"...in Death\\" series, Loyalty in Death, has a group of terrorists named Cassandra setting off murderous bombs.  There are no demands being made and there doesn't seem to be a motive for the bombings.  Eve finds out through her brilliant detective work, that the terrorist groups roots began many years before.<br />There's an edge of your seat ending that threatens both Eve's life and Roarkes as they close in on the brains behind the group.  This was one of my favorite books in this fantastic series.  Start with the first, Naked in Death, and read the whole series if you haven't yet.	2000-10-25
US	51636151	R19S9BADL7MWR0	1575665867	22309935	Glass Houses	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Another Excellent Cameron	Aiden Flynn, NYPD detective, accidentally finds email addressed to his upstairs neighbor while checking his own email on his neighbor's computer.  The email is from a woman in London, Olivia Fitzdurham, who is a freelance photographer.  Apparently, unbeknown to Olivia, she has accidentally captured on film something that others would prefer not be revealed.  Olivia is being followed and threatened and is writing to Sam Ryan, who also happens to be a copy, about the situation.  Aiden writes back to Olivia, posing as Sam Ryan his neighbor, and encourages her to come to the United States where he will help her.  Aiden meets Olivia at the airport and the chase begins.  Aiden and Olivia both become criminals on the run thanks to Ryan and his partner who set them up and implicate them in a crime.  <br />Ms. Cameron has a tendency to make her heroines rather drab with little confidence in their own appeal; sometimes I find this a bit boring.  Olivia falls into this category and I found myself losing patience with the character.  Olivia reminded me a great deal of \\"Paris Delight\\" Ms. Cameron's heroine in her novel \\"Pure Delights\\".  Be that as it may, I found Glass Houses to be an entertaining read and would recommend it to all Cameron fans	2000-10-25
US	51636151	RGESGUJ0RS8RI	0553560506	342830300	Sarah's Sin (Loveswept)	Books	4	61	62	N	N	An Early Hoag Romance	In my on-going quest to read everything ever written by Tami Hoag (even if I have to go backwards to do it) I borrowed a copy of Sarah's Sin from my aunt.  Having read the latest of Ms. Hoag's murder mysteries it took some getting used to when I began reading this romance novel.  I knew that Tami Hoag wrote romance before she began writing mystery novels, but still it took until chapter 2 before I settled into this book. Then I got lost in the world of Sarah Troyer, a young Amish widow and Dr. Matt Thorne head of the emergency ward in Minneapolis hospital.  Matt is gorgeous, a bachelor and an unrepentant ladies man.  Sarah is beautiful, naïve and Amish.  The story begins as Sarah is nursing Matt back to health after he had been beaten and shot during a gang fight in the emergency room.  Sarah works for Matt's sister, Ingrid, who runs a bed and breakfast in the small town where Sarah lives.<br />Ms. Hoag develops the characters and their relationship to their lives, families and each other with grace and her usual talent.  It's a wonderful romance and love story and anyone who has read Nora Roberts work will enjoy it.  If you are looking for Ms. Hoag's latest type of novel (Ashes to Ashes, Dust to Dust, Guilty as Sin) this is not the same type of book although I would highly recommend it to lovers of romance novels.	2000-10-22
US	51636151	R2BCIN63LDDK6Y	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Year 2 At Hogwarts...Fantastic	Year 2 at Hogwarts begins with Harry's summer holiday with the Dursleys.  The Dursleys haven't changed they're still horrible.  Harry is visited at the Dursleys by a new character, Dobby the house-elf who is hysterically funny with his self-punishment, made me laugh out loud.  Unfortunately, Dobby's visit causes a number of problems for Harry and his life at the Durselys becomes even worse, if that's possible.<br />Ron Weasley and his two brothers arrive at the Dursleys in a flying car to rescue Harry.  When the school year begins there is a new professor, Gilderoy Lockhart, who is an outrageous ego-maniac, a ghost named Moaning Myrtle and the ever-present local bad-guy Draco Malfoy.<br />The theme of this second book is prejudice against \\"mudbloods\\", people who are from Muggle parents and \\"purebloods\\" people who come from wizards and witches.  J.K. Rowling does a superb job of addressing the issue of prejudice while weaving another fascinating mystery for Harry, Hermoine and Ron to solve.<br />This second in the series was every bit as entertaining as the first and I have already started on book 3 as I write this.	2000-10-17
US	51636151	R23V15J15V419C	0515123854	645374604	Silent Night: Midnight in Death/Unexpected Gift/Christmas Promise/Berry Merry Christmas (Christmas Anthology)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Silent Night...Midnight in Death	J.D. Robb (Nora Roberts) and three other writers (Claire Cross, Dee Holmes and Susan Plunkett) make up the four stories in Silent Night.  I bought the book for the J.D. Robb Midnight in Death story although the other three weren't bad either.  Of course, all the stories were centered on the theme of Christmas and the holidays.<br />A Berry Merry Christmas, by Claire Cross, is about an orphan, Natalie Sinclair and her Uncle Drew.  Natalie wishes for a new mother for Christmas and Holly Berry turns out to be the one to fill that role.   The Unexpected Gift, by Dee Holmes, Sabrina McKay is having her first Christmas after her divorce with her young son.  Her son finds what he thinks is a dead man in the yard but who turns out to be a girlhood boyfriend of Sabrina's, Zach Danforth.  Predictably, they fall in love and have a wonderful Christmas<br />Christmas Promises, by Susan Plunkett, has Jake Rimsa giving his ex-fiancée, Marne York, a ride home for Christmas.  Marne has become an of battered women and has changed much from the woman that Jake once knew.  Jake and Marne renew their love and it's better then it had been before as they come to know each other again.<br />Midnight in Death, by J.D. Robb, Eve and Roarke's first Christmas together as husband and wife is interrupted by the discovery of the naked, mutilated body of the judge responsible for convicting serial killer David Palmer.  Since Eve was the officer that brought down David Palmer, her name is on a list of those to be killed.  This was the best story in the book and continues the \\"in Death\\" series with all the characters that are in the full-length books of the series.  Of course, with Roarke's help, Eve finds the escaped murderer and wraps up the case.	2000-10-14
US	51636151	R2DE7A33FDH4K2	0425157628	737300478	Ceremony in Death	Books	5	17	18	N	N	...in Death series continues with Ceremony	The incredible \\"...in Death\\" series written by Nora Roberts, under the name J.D. Robb, continues with Ceremony in Death.  Eve Dallas is investigating the death of a fellow officer to determine whether he was corrupt and whether he was murdered. <br />The investigation gets Eve involved with a satanic cult and a wiccan group. The wiccan element brings more development to Peabody's character and makes Peabody more than just a trainee in this story since Peabody knows a bit about the wiccan practices.<br />As always, Roarke gets involved in the investigation even when Eve doesn't want him to of course.  This book is as good as the other's in this series and they're all great.  If you haven't read the series start with the first book, Naked in Death. <br />Highly recommended!	2000-10-14
US	51636151	RGLOAJG5V1WHU	0425160394	737300478	Vengeance in Death	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Vengeance in Death is a winner	In this latest installment in the \\"...in Death\\" series, Vengeance in Death, there is a series of vicious murders involving torture and mutilation.  Eve discovers that all the victims had assisted Roarke in his quest for vengeance for the murder of a young girl back in Ireland.  The young girl was Somerset's daughter.  Somerset is Roarke's butler and they have been together for many years coming to America together from Ireland.<br />The murderer sends Eve riddles before each murder. And she tortures over each riddle believing that if she can solve the riddle in time she might prevent the murder from happening.<br />Somerset's character is largely developed in this book as he is framed and made to look like the murderer, also implicating Roarke.  Eve decides to take the investigation underground or risk making Roarke look like the prime suspect.<br />Figuring out the murderer was difficult and entertaining.  Another excellent book in the series.	2000-10-14
US	51636151	R230AIC8QCIBVO	0425153789	101996312	Immortal in Death (In Death, Book 3)	Books	5	52	53	N	N	Immortal in Death - an excellent continuing series	In the latest in the series, &quot;Immortal in Death,&quot; we find Eve shopping for a wedding dress to wear to marry the hunk Roarke.  If you've read any of the other books in this series, you'll understand why it is so unusual for this tough city cop to be dress shopping. <br />A supermodel is murdered and Eve's best friend, Mavis, becomes the prime suspect. Also suspect is Mavis's boyfriend, Leonardo, who just happens to be the designer of Dallas's wedding dress. While investigating the murder and digging up the dirt on the fashion world, Dallas discovers that the model (and most of the suspects) are either consuming or dealing a new and illegal youth serum. <br />It's hard to guess the murderer is in this book, the entire mystery is well written by Robb who keeps the reader guessing.<br />Mavis's character is brought out in more depth, and Peabody's character is broadened as well making her Eve's aide.   Roarke and Eve's relationship shows more depth in this book then in the previous books and we learn more about Roarke's background.<br />Read the entire series of these \\"in Death\\" books, start with Naked in Death the first of the series.  They are all excellent.	2000-10-14
US	51636151	RBID77JCL206U	0425163717	695515166	Holiday in Death	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Holiday in Death another great addition to the series	The \\"...in Death\\" series by J.D. Robb continues with the holiday season and a serial killer on the loose.  The killer uses the Christmas carol, &quot;The Twelve Days of Christmas&quot; as his theme for the murders and leaves with each victim a partridge in a pear tree at the first murder scene and two turtledoves at the second scene. Eve discovers that the murderer dresses up as Santa Claus to gain easy entry by the victim.<br />As in the other books in the series, the spicey romance between Eve and Roarke is a pleasant diverstion from murder and mayhem.<br />The book is fast paced and holds the readers interest.  If you haven't read any of the other books in this series, start with Naked in Death and read them all.  It's a terrific series that will have you waiting and anticipating the next book.	2000-10-14
US	51636151	RTY0SEOLMAK35	0425155188	939449265	Rapture in Death	Books	5	3	4	N	N	&quot;...in Death&quot; series are getting better and better	In this exciting installment of the \\"...in Death\\" series, Rapture in Death, Eve and Roarke are on their honeymoon on a planet that Roarke is turning into a resort along the lines of Vegas, in the futuristic sense in the year 2058. The resort is still under construction and so it's not open to the public as yet.<br />While enjoying a relaxing stay at the luxurious hotel Eve finds she is investigating a suicide.  One of the engineers working on the construction, a young man, hangs himself in his room.  The odd thing about it being the peculiar smile or look of utter \\"rapture\\" on the man's face.<br />Eve and Roarke return to New York and the suicides continue. Eve must find the link between the suicides and discover if they are really murders.<br />This was one of my favorites in the \\"...in Death\\" series.  Highly recommended.	2000-10-14
US	51636151	R3SXOD3YFCQ1IT	0425148297	587976494	Naked in Death (In Death, Book 1)	Books	5	95	101	N	N	The beginning of a great series	The \\"...in Death\\" series starts with Naked in Death a futuristic series set in New York City in the year 2058.  The star of the series is Lt. Eve Dallas a tough as nails female homicide detective who fights for the rights of the victims of murder.<br />Eve finds the main murder suspect, a billionaire named Roarke who walks a fine line between legal and illegal, to be just a little bit too attractive for her comfort.  He's Irish, gorgeous, and very charming. <br />This series is written by Nora Roberts under the name J.D. Robb.  Don't confuse the romance novels usually written by Ms. Roberts with this series.  The \\"...in Death\\" series is a far cry from her usual romance story.  The series is excellent and I would recommend you read all the books beginning with this one, Naked in Death.	2000-10-14
US	51636151	R3VP10KV0632K	0671001795	876638734	Two for the Dough (Stephanie Plum, No. 2) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	14	20	N	N	Two for the Dough Stephanie Plum	Two for the Dough, the second book in the Stephanie Plum series, begins as Stephanie, bounty hunter in training, gets put on the case to find Kenny Mancuso, who's accused of killing his best friend and jumping bail. With the help of fellow bounty hunter, Ranger and cop, Joe Morelli, Stephanie's up to her old tricks. This is a fast paced, funny, very funny novel with scenes that will have you laughing out loud. <br />Stephanie, along with Grandma Mazur, searches funeral homes for Kenny Mancusco.  Grandma Mazur's adventures in the funeral home are very funny.  The funeral hone is missing a load of coffins and Stephanie agrees to look for the coffins while she's looking for Kenny Mancusco.  <br />Book number two in this series did not disappointment.  It was funnier then the first and really got me hooked on Stephanie Plum, Bounty Hunter.  Read them all, you won't be able to remember when you had so much fun or laughed as hard over a book!	2000-10-12
US	51636151	R3FZDIXK3QLU43	0312966091	809706185	Three to Get Deadly (Stephanie Plum, No. 3) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	This Series has the Best LOL books!	In this third book in the series, Three to Get Deadly, begins as Stephanie Plum, bounty hunter is given the job to pick up Mo Bedemier. Uncle Mo, as he's known in the neighborhood, who owns an ice-cream parlor/candy store. Uncle Mo has missed his court appearance and seems to have left town. The case soon develops into attacks by strange anti-drug vigilantes, murdered men and porno films. <br />Stephanie also has to bring in a kid who works in a fast food store, this whole line in the story is very, very funny.   Running through the story is the question of whether Stephanie is going to retreat into eating all of her meals at her parent's house, move in with Joe Morelli, and give up on chasing bad guys and get a job at the button factory.  <br />Stephanie's independence prevails she gets her man (all of them) and lives to fight another day.  This is my favorite series and look forward to each one.  They never fail to deliver the mystery, the good times and the LOL fun.  Read them all.	2000-10-12
US	51636151	R2CR0P3U6YDZFU	0061009059	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	First in a Fantastic Series	This is the first in what has become a series of very funny, entertaining mystery stories. Stephanie Plum is the main character in the book and she is extraordinarily funny as she bumbles her way into a career as a bounty hunter after leaving a job in lingerie sales. <br />Stephanie's on the job training as a bounty hunter is a series of hysterical episodes. She has only become a bounty hunter to escape total poverty.   Her car is repossessed and she has sold most of her furniture.  Paying her rent has become top priority<br />To get the bounty hunter job, she blackmails her cousin who is a bails bond agent, into giving her the job of bringing in Joe Morelli, a cop up on charges of killing an unarmed man.  Stephanie's cousin is easy to blackmail since he is a really slimy sort who engages in various strange sexual pursuits in his office.  She merely suggests to him that his wife might now be pleased with his behavior.  So, she gets the job to get Morelli.<br />Stephanie knows Morelli from the neighborhood and even has a bit of history with him from when she was 6 years old.  Morelli is one of those men who are very attractive and very dangerous.  She hasn't seen Morelli for a long time and the last time she did see him she ran over him with her car.  She is able to find Morelli.  Actually, she finds him quite often, but she can't bring him in he always gets away.  There are some incredibly funny scenes around Stephanie trying to bring in Morelli.   Stephanie enlists the help of a fellow bounty hunter, Ranger, to give her some training.  Ranger is another one of those attractive dangerous men and also very mysterious since no one knows where he lives and how he manages to drive around in Porches, BMW's and other high-end cars.  Ranger is a continuing character in the Stephanie Plum series.<br />Read all the books in the series, in order.  Each one stands alone but you won't want to just read one.  I've looked forward to each one and haven't been disappointed yet.	2000-10-12
US	51636151	R22PDCSJABC9I5	0684850311	908288948	Lethal Seduction	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Not a Collins Best	Madison Castelli is one of the main female characters in the book. She's no Lucky Santangelo that's for sure, but she's a good character. She's beautiful, of course, so I couldn't understand why she was hanging on to grief about her ex-lover having walked out on her for another woman...two years ago.  <br />Madison's best friend, Jamie Nova, finds out that her perfect husband is cheating on her in the most devious manner.  Rosarita Falcon is the bitchiest character I've come across in a long time.  She is unhappily married to a handsome but unsuccessful soap opera star, Dexter, whose real name is Dick Cockranger can you believe it? too funny.  Rosarita is having a torrid affair with Joel Blaine, public sex fanatic and son of billionaire Leon Blaine.  Rosarita asks her father to kill her husband, Dexter, since she believes her father is in the mob.  We never do actually learn if he is in the mob or not. ... <br />Not the best of Collins, but a fun read nonetheless.	2000-10-11
US	51636151	RUE17TXJM8VNT	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Hogwarts Year 4 The Goblet of Fire	Hogwarts year 4!  Having read the previous 3 books I was thrilled to find that Goblet of Fire was 734 pages long...knowing it was the last book before the `dry spell' while waiting for Hogwarts year 5 to be released.  After having heard about the Harry Potter books and seen them in the bookstores, I still had not read any of the series because I considered them children's books.  While reading through some of the reviews posted on Amazon.com by one of the Top 500 Reviewers, I read a review of the first book, Harry Potter and the Sorcerers Stone.  The woman who wrote the review was an adult and she raved about the book so much I had to satisfy my growing curiosity by buying the book.  I haven't looked back...I've read them all and now, after finishing book 4, am in a state of Harry Potter withdrawal.  This series of books is the best I have read since Tolkien's Lord of the Rings.<br />Goblet of Fire develops more fully some of the main characters in the series, Fred and George Weasley, Hermione Granger and Professor Dumbledore.  The reader is brought along as Harry is growing up and J.K. Rowling keeps the reader involved and engrossed.<br />There are no Quidditch games this season at Hogwarts but the International Quidditch Cup makes up for the lack.  Instead, Hogwarts is hosting the Triwizard Tournament an event that challenges champions from three schools in various feats of bravery and wizardry.<br />There are twists, turns and a number of surprises in the Goblet of Fire as in all the books in this series, and the end of the book is not only a surprise but sets the tone for the next book.  It can't be emphasized enough that this series of books is positively fantastic for children and adults.  Buy them all, read them all in order, you won't be sorry.	2000-10-10
US	51636151	R3ES2M3AEND6QJ	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Harry Potter and The Prisoner of Azkaban Book 3	Harry Potter, Hermione Granger and Ron Weasley return to take on the dreaded escapee from Azkaban prison in Book 3.  It is believed that the escaped convict, Sirius Black, is looking for Harry in order to kill him.  More is revealed about the circumstances surrounding the murder of Harry's parents, James and Lily Potter, as Harry learns the real truth.<br />A new character is introduced, Professor Lupin, who teaches Defense Against the Dark Arts and turns out to be the best teacher for the subject the school has ever had.  Professor Lupin befriends Harry and teaches him an advanced wizarding spell that will drive away a Dementor.  The Dementor's are the guards at the Azkaban prison who have been dispatched to Hogwarts school in the event the escaped prisoner should attempt to get to Harry while he is there.  <br />The Professor who taught Care of Magical Creatures has retired and Hagrid has been given the job much to the enjoyment of the students.  <br />The Quidditch matches are enormously exciting!  Don't want to give anything away but...<br />Ms. Rowling bested herself with this third book in the series.  The characters are well developed and the plot keeps the reader enthralled until the last page.  Absolutely excellent for \\"children\\" of any age!	2000-10-06
US	51636151	R2G7H85NQTFAUT	0679441018	983362906	Memnoch the Devil (Vampire Chronicles, Book 5)	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Courageous Chronicle!	Another brilliant addition to the Vampire Chronicles.  In Memnoch the Devil, Lestat seems to show signs of a conscience and recognition of his own faults and possible vulnerabilities, which helps the reader to care for him. <br />The story is far reaching and challenges readers to open their minds.  Ms. Rice's imagination is awe-inspiring.  Memnoch's feelings about God's relationship to humanity, being indifferent, struck a chord with me as I'm sure it will many other readers.<br />The book was a surprise in that an author would take on this subject matter.  Ms. Rice does so with her usual creative flair and writes a book that will long stay on my bookshelf.  If you are a fan of Ms. Rice's work or have read the other vampire chronicles, you will enjoy this book.	2000-10-05
US	51636151	R35YRWYJTR6WYF	0553571885	34141079	A Thin Dark Line	Books	5	51	53	N	N	Another Hoag winner	A Thin Dark Line returns to the French Triangle, the setting of two earlier books, Lucky's Lady and Cry Wolf.  Those of you who have not already read Cry Wolf may want to read it before reading Thin Dark Line as the killer and the victims in Cry Wolf are revealed in Thin Dark Line.<br />A few years after the Bayou Strangler's reign of terror is ended, Bayou Breaux again terrorized by a killer. After a prominent businesswoman's mutilated body is found, her accused stalker is investigated and arrested for the murder. Charges of corruption in the Sheriff's Office, tainted evidence, and a legal technicality set Marcus Renard free. Renard now focuses his obsession on Sheriff's Deputy Annie Broussard, the officer who found the body. Broussard feels an obligation to the murdered woman, and to the woman's child, to find and punish her killer. <br />Deciding to use Renard's obsession to get close enough to him to prove his guilt, Annie is caught in a dangerous crossfire. Her only ally is Detective Nick Fourcade, a rogue cop with a reputation of corruption and violence. Annie can't be sure if Fourcade is helping her or using her, since it was his investigation, his evidence, and his mistake that allowed a brutal murderer go free. Fourcade's only hope of redeeming himself and his reputation is in the hands of the woman most likely to die next.	2000-10-03
US	51636151	R2YFPH3FZYSZ56	0446364266	367367927	French Silk	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Brown at her Best	Set in New Orleans, this is a tale of mystery, suspense, romance and family loyalty. Claire Laurent is the owner of a lingerie mail-order business, French Silk, and is the suspect in the murder of a televangelist, Jack Wilde.   New Orleans assistant district attorney Robert Cassidy is on the case and, of course, is also highly attracted to his best suspect, Claire.<br />A terrific story and a great mystery.  The end is fantastic and the killer will be a total surprise.  Another great Brown saga.	2000-10-01
US	51636151	R29RANIGGWUKBU	0373079613	21160197	Enchanted: The Donovan Legacy (Silhouette Intimate Moments, #961)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	The Donovan Legacy continues	Enchanted is the next book in the Donovan Legacy series.  If the reader has read the previous books, this one is a charming addition.  It stands on it's own as well if you haven't read the others.<br />The relationship between Liam Donovan and Rowan Murray begins in Oregon where Rowan has gone on vacation to a friends cabin.   Rowan becomes alarmed when she sees a golden-eyed black wolf watching her but then she begins to become more comfortable with the presence of the wolf.  She meets her elusive neighbor, Liam, and is mystified by him.  She begins having erotic dreams of Liam she can't explain.<br />Liam is a Donovan witch and can `shape-shift' into different forms.  He is the wolf that watches Rowan and who she has taken into her home.<br />I found Enchanted to be an excellent addition to the Donovan Legacy and enjoyed it from beginning to end.  It lives up to the other books in the series and was an enjoyable read.	2000-10-01
US	51636151	R2ZDISVR1BH5EM	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Not Just for Kids!	I had heard so much about Harry Potter and seen the books piled in every book store I visited, that I finally caved and said &quot;why not&quot;.  Hey, I loved Lord of the Rings!  I started with book 1, of course, The Sorcerers Stone and I'm hooked.  Going to buy all the rest of them.<br />The story is enchanting, the teachers and Harry's fellow students at Hogwarts are well developed characters and the life situations encountered by Harry and his friends are believable and touching.<br />I generally read murder mystery books but I found J.K. Rowling's Harry Potter absolutely wonderful and as good as any murder mystery I've read.  I highly recommend this book to anyone with or without children, for the child in all of us! :)	2000-09-28
US	51636151	R34CCI20PRDKPG	055356160X	760759205	Cry Wolf: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Mystery and Suspense	Cry Wolf is a great suspense novel, and one of my favorite Hoag books. The characters are colorful, the killer was somewhat of a surprise and the last pages of the book are impossible to put down.  The romantic storyline was a little too sappy otherwise this book is a terrific read.	2000-09-27
US	51636151	RI64MJYAC344K	067102423X	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	5	2	4	N	N	King at his Best	The central character is a widowed best selling novelist, Mike Noonan who is grieving from his wife's sudden and unexpected death. He suffers from writer's block.  He begins having a repetitive dream focusing on his dead wife appearing at the doorsteps of his Maine summerhouse he calls Sara Laughs. He packs up his belongings and moves into the old house in hope that he will begin writing again.<br />He meets a young woman, Mattie Devore and her daughter Kyra who are grieving the death of Mattie's husband. Mike begins to notice strange happenings around Sara Laughs.  He believes these occurrences are to help him begin writing and get over the loss of his wife, and to help Mattie and Kyra escape from the clutches of her father in law, Max Devore who is trying to gain custody of his granddaughter. <br />In Bag of Bones King combined mystery, suspense, a little romance, and the supernatural.   I found this to be as exceptional as Insomnia, which I thought was one of King's best.  An incredible read!	2000-09-27
US	51636151	RUZJI9PFMDPM3	0553295349	94468636	Lucky's Lady (Doucet)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Hoag on the Romantic side	Serena Sheridan is a psychologist who returns to her ancestral home in Louisiana for a vacation. When she returns she has to deal with her seventy-eight year old grandfather who has gone out to his fishing cabin and refuses to return.  She has a calculating twin sister that she has never gotten along with.  And a politician brother-in-law who is very wishy-washy.<br />Serena finds out that a chemical company wants to buy the family property for a plant that will endanger wildlife.  Her sister wants the property sold, of course, so she can have the money to advance her husband's political career.<br />The hunk of the story, Lucky, lives in the bayou and is a type of Robin Hood crusader.  He keeps out the poachers and helps the people who live in the bayou.  Lucky is put to the test by his inner demons when he finds himself falling in love with Serena.<br />Hoag fans who have read more recent books of hers, will find this more of a romance novel then Ashes to Ashes, Guilty as Sin and Night Sins.  However, it is a great book with a good mystery, if a little more romantic then we've gotten accustomed to with Ms. Hoag.	2000-09-27
US	51636151	R1SUCIMRC2UDS0	0345409671	983362906	Memnoch the Devil (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Brilliant Treatment of a Touchy Subject	Another brilliant addition to the Vampire Chronicles.  In Memnoch the Devil, Lestat seems to show signs of a conscience and recognition of his own faults and possible vulnerabilities, which helps the reader to care for him. <br />The story is far reaching and challenges readers to open their minds.  Ms. Rice's imagination is awe-inspiring.  Memnoch's feelings about God's relationship to humanity, being indifferent, struck a chord with me as I'm sure it will many other readers.<br />The book was a surprise in that an author would take on this subject matter.  Ms. Rice does so with her usual creative flair and writes a book that will long stay on my bookshelf.  If you are a fan of Ms. Rice's work or have read the other vampire chronicles, you will enjoy this book.	2000-09-27
US	51636151	R28EUW3EU2G8TL	055356451X	636592968	Night Sins (Deer Lake)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Great, Great, Great Read	Eight-year-old Josh Kirkwood is abducted outside the hockey arena where he has finished practice. Only one clue is left, a note that talks of ignorance and sin. Josh's parents, Dr. Hannah Garrison and Paul Kirkwood are inconsolable.  Dr. Hannah Garrison was to have picked Josh up after hockey but she was detained at the hospital due to an emergency.<br />Megan O'Malley, Bureau of Criminal Apprehension Investigator and Mitch Holt, Chief of Police for the town of Deer Lake, Minnesota set out to investigate Josh's disappearance. The kidnapper leaves two more clues but there's no break in the case. <br />Tami Hoag does a fine job in building this first of a two-part story.   Go on to Guilty As Sin for the full story. Night Sins and Guilty As Sin together make an excellent story that you won't want to put down.	2000-09-27
US	51636151	R2VNC4UK7NTZTT	0671705091	386088520	A Knight in Shining Armor	Books	5	36	41	N	N	What a Fantastic Book!	Although this book has been out for 5 years I just learned about it and picked it up in my local book store.  It is one of the best books I've read in a long time.<br />Dougless Montgomery comes from the famous Montgomery family.  She met a successful doctor, Robert, who doesn't want a commitment, however, Dougless and Robert decide to plan a trip to England a year from the day the move in together. Then, they will decide if they want to marry. <br />On their way to the airport for their long awaited trip to England, Robert says he has a surprise for Dougless.  At the airport, her dreams are squashed when Robert's daughter Gloria shows up and she turns out to be a most obnoxious child that Robert indulges sinfully.<br />While the three of them are visiting a church, Dougless and Gloria get into an argument. Robert, of course, sides with his daughter and they leave Dougless stranded at the church in the country without her money or passport.  Douglass goes into the church and cries on the tomb of Nicholas Stafford, the Earl of Thornwyck.  Suddenly he appears out of sixteenth century England. At first Douglass doesn't believe that he's from the sixteenth century. She finds his way of dress strange, his talk ridiculous and the fact that he doesn't know what a car is or how to use the bathroom is strange as well.   Eventually Nicholas convinces Douglass and the two set to finding out who set Nicholas up for treason in Elizabethan times. <br />Finding no answers, Nicholas resigns himself to stay in the 20th century and acknowledges that Douglass is the love of his life.  Suddenly Nicholas is taken back in time.  Douglass is at a loss, but she is determined to find the answers to clear his name. Then Douglass is taken back in time to 1560 and finds herself at Nicholas's home, although Nicholas does not remember her. <br />Douglass must win over Nicholas's trust to change history again, knowing that once it is changed she will be dragged back to the twentieth century.	2000-09-27
US	51636151	R7CBKC9EB4EAP	0553571885	34141079	A Thin Dark Line	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Suspense at it's Best	A Thin Dark Line returns to the French Triangle, the setting of two earlier books, Lucky's Lady and Cry Wolf.  Those of you who have not already read Cry Wolf may want to read it before reading Thin Dark Line as the killer and the victims in Cry Wolf are revealed in Thin Dark Line.<br />A few years after the Bayou Strangler's reign of terror is ended, Bayou Breaux again terrorized by a killer. After a prominent businesswoman's mutilated body is found, her accused stalker is investigated and arrested for the murder. Charges of corruption in the Sheriff's Office, tainted evidence, and a legal technicality set Marcus Renard free. Renard now focuses his obsession on Sheriff's Deputy Annie Broussard, the officer who found the body. Broussard feels an obligation to the murdered woman, and to the woman's child, to find and punish her killer. <br />Deciding to use Renard's obsession to get close enough to him to prove his guilt, Annie is caught in a dangerous crossfire. Her only ally is Detective Nick Fourcade, a rogue cop with a reputation of corruption and violence. Annie can't be sure if Fourcade is helping her or using her, since it was his investigation, his evidence, and his mistake that allowed a brutal murderer go free. Fourcade's only hope of redeeming himself and his reputation is in the hands of the woman most likely to die next.	2000-09-27
US	51636151	R1RH0WG0TZRFHN	0553564528	357663143	Guilty as Sin: A Novel (Deer Lake)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Book 2 as good as the First one!	In Guilty as Sin the story centers on the child abduction that began in Night Sins. The story surrounds the perpetrator of the abduction of eight-year-old Josh Kirkwood.  Ellen North, County Prosecutor and Mitch Holt, Police Chief for Deer Lake, Minnesota investigate.  Ellen North must build a case against a suspect most people don't believe to be guilty.  This book is as dynamic and riveting as the first and kept me enthralled as the mystery was first built into a more devious story and then slowly unraveled to a climatic end.  A great story spread across these two novels.  Highly recommended.	2000-09-27
US	51636151	R16PP857J4AKLB	0553561618	806983409	Dark Paradise: A Novel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Romance and Murder together again in another Hoag	Tami Hoag has written another thriller, murder mystery that I couldn't put down.  The story begins as the main character, Marilee Jennings, is driving to Montana after she has quit her job as a court stenographer and decided to go to Montana where her friend Lucy MacAdam moved the year before. When she arrives, she discovers Lucy's cabin torn apart and that Lucy has been dead for over a week, the apparent victim of an accidental shooting. <br />Marilee decides to stay so she might learn what really happened to her friend Lucy.  J.D. Rafferty, Lucy's neighbor makes her feel most unwelcome in the town and there seems to be a division in the town about the many rich California people who are buying property in New Eden.  Marilee finds out that she is Lucy's heir and that she has inherited her small farm.  Tami Hoag has, once again, created a rich story set in an attractive town. The tension and developing relationship between Marilee and J.D. Rafferty is intriguing and adds to the mystery of the book.	2000-09-27
US	51636151	R37KTVLVS62XCZ	0373270976	896661657	Night Shield (Silhouette Intimate Moments, #1027)	Books	4	26	26	N	N	Another &quot;Night&quot; series winner	Allison Fletcher, daughter of Boyd and Cilla Fletcher, has just earned her Detective's badge and her father, Boyd who is the Commissioner, assigns her to a case.  The case involves a series of robberies perpetrated against high-income professionals in the Denver area.  The common thread in the crimes is that most of the people who were robbed had enjoyed an evening out on the town at a club named Blackhawks.  <br />Jonah Blackhawk has a history with Boyd Fletcher.  When Boyd was in uniform Blackhawk was a JD that Boyd picked up from the streets, saw his potential and encouraged him to make something of himself.  <br />Sparks fly when Allison, Ally, is assigned to work undercover in Blackhawks as a waitress while trying to discover the link between the robberies and the club.<br />Night Shield brings back all the starring characters from the Night Tales series and allows the reader to catch up on their lives and the lives of their children.  <br />It's a great read written with Nora Robert's great style and flair.  A definite must for NR fans and for those who love the entire \\"Night\\" series.	2000-09-25
US	51636151	R28PFTKE3D8OWK	0967408407	47216497	PeopleSoft Step By Step	Books	5	13	13	N	N	An Easy Step by Step	Being familiar with the Microsoft Step by Step series of books I selected this study guide on PeopleSoft and I was not disappointed.  It's easy to follow with clear instructions and screen shots.  The text doesn't bog you down with paragraph after paragraph of background descriptions and other information you don't need or care about.  It gets right to the meat of the instruction.  It has easy to follow exercises as well.  The information in Part 2 covering the Application Designer was an added bonus.  Part 3 covering access privileges, and importing data from outside sources was also extremely helpful.  The only drawback was the requirement of having the HRMS database single-user version installed on my PC.  Perhaps that should have been made clear in the book description.  But the book suited my purposes and I highly recommend it as an excellent resource.	2000-09-24
US	51636151	R19SKQ4ARWRG9F	0446527033	213222268	The Switch	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Gripping Tale	Identical twins Gillian and Melina Lloyd used to switch places all the time, as children, because no one could ever tell them apart.   As the story opens over lunch Gillian tells Melina that she has undergone an artificial insemination that morning after having thought about it for some time. Gillian has a boyfriend, Jem Hemmings, who is no gem. Melina suggests they switch places and that Gillian take on Melina's assignment as media escort to Colonel Christopher (Chief) Hart a NASA astronaut that evening.   Christopher Hart is not only an astronaut and national hero, he is also half American Indian.  Gillian turns Melina's offer down saying she wants to go home and get some rest.<br />The next morning Melina is awakened by police who have come to tell her that her sister Gillian has been murdered.  The killer has written on the walls with blood and what was written implicates Native American's and so Chief and Melina are thrown together to try to discover the motive for Gillian's murder.<br />This story is riveting and unpredictable!  The ending is a complete surprise that only in the last few pages does the reader begin to get an inkling of what is going on.<br />Fantastic read.  Highly recommended.	2000-09-23
US	51636151	R3N7H5JGCQ5DIY	0671014161	354206388	High Tide	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Fair Read	I loved the Ace and Fiona characters! Ace seems so cool and laid back. I liked Fiona's character because she seems to be able to stay cool during tough situations.  However, this is no &quot;Knight in Shining Armor&quot; which I loved and think is Ms. Deveraux's best book.  <br />The mystery line was good but there were so many extra people in this book that didn't seem important to the story that things started to get somewhat confusing.<br />I liked the history of the lost treasure and how they come to find it.  Not a terrible book, entertaining, but not the greatest either.  If you're a Deveraux fan you'll love it.	2000-09-23
US	51636151	RXQBS3HY758K3	0671007734	967437027	Heaven in High Gear	Books	3	16	17	N	N	There's a Message here	Heaven in High Gear is a sequel to the first God on a Harley.  The story revolves around a stripper named Heather Hurley who lives high in LA in her condo and drives a BMW.  She works out with a personal trainer to keep her body in top form and she judges all men she sees according to their physical form.  Joe, God, arrives in her life when she visits her childhood home for a vacation with old friends.  Heather is guided and instructed by Joe how she can have a better life, be happy and do what she really loves to do most, which is to write poetry and sing torch songs.  In the end Heather learns to love herself and have the confidence and self-esteem to have what she wants, with Joe's help of course.<br />These books (God on a Harley and Heaven in High Gear) are not heavy duty reading but there's a message given that applies to all human's who need to have faith in themselves.  The message that He does hear and He does help.  I think the book is a worthwhile read.  It's inspiring and hopeful.	2000-09-23
US	51636151	RB46YABPNMY64	1575665646	380137244	American Icon	Books	3	0	0	N	N	No &quot;Palm Beach&quot;	I enjoyed Pat Booth's other books, Miami, Palm Beach, Malibu and Beverly Hills.  I would have liked this book much more had it not been for the ending.   I liked the idea of Kate Haywood being a Martha Stewart type, with her rise to success stunning.  I was disappointed in her final decision as to who she would spend the rest of her life with.  Her husband is an egotistical jerk who wants to take all the credit for her success.  I found the book a little confusing they way Ms. Booth spent so much time developing the story of the American sculptor and the English doctor.  I kept wondering where this all was going in relation to the start of the book with the development of the Kate Haywood character.  All in all I wasn't left with that `book well read' feeling when I finished.	2000-09-23
US	51636151	R3RI6H5WXPB5QK	0671536222	733042409	God on a Harley	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Needed Message	I borrowed this book from a friend who had received it as a gift but had not read it.  The story of a woman at a cross roads of her life, low in self-esteem and confidence, when she meets a guy riding a Harley Davidson.  The 'guy' turns out to be He, Himself, and the way Joan Brady goes about unfolding the story of how this woman is guided, instructed and helped by God really made me think hard about how I relate to God and how I expect God to manifest in my life.<br />The book is not a heart throb romance, or a gripping murder mystery, and it isn't even that well written.  But this book caused me to wonder, evaluate and open my mind to other possibilities.  Anything that causes me to think I say is worth reading.  It's a good book and I would recommend it highly.	2000-09-23
US	51636151	RTBAEBH2W0I9S	0060175532	597329210	Young Wives: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sad, Funny and some ingenuous revenge	Jada, Angie and Michelle are the three heroines in the piece.  They are great friends with terrible husbands.  But then what would a Goldsmith novel be without \\"terrible\\" men.  It was sad and funny...the bit about the crazy glue was brilliant!  No, not all men are as scummy as the ones found in a Goldsmith novel but hey, this is fiction folks!  I enjoy the author's sense of humor and her rich imagination when she plots out the heroines revenge.  An enjoyable read.	2000-09-23
US	51636151	R3VP9WKHGO7TRR	0373484100	216534554	Night Tales: Night Shift/ Night Shadow/ Nightshade/ Night Smoke	Books	5	43	43	N	N	&quot;Night&quot; series...Fantastic	Four oldies but goodies from Nora Roberts.  The woman continues to astound me with her ability to write so many great stories!    NIGHT SHIFT:  Edge of your seat suspense!  Cilla O'Roarke is a night time DJ, she plays the greatest RR in the Denver, Colorado area.  One night during the open line request portion of the show she gets a threatening phone call from someone who says he's going to kill her.  Although Cilla is stubborn and doesn't want to call in the police, the manager of the radio station calls them in.  Detective Boyd Fletcher is one of the two officers assigned to protect her and solve the case.  The ensuing drama of catching the man threatening Cilla's life and the heated romance that begins between Cilla and Boyd keep the reader riveted right up to the last page.  Highly recommended!<br />NIGHT SHADOW: Deborah O'Roarke, Cilla O'Roarke's sister from Night Shift, has graduated from law school, passed the bar exam and taken a  job as Assistant District Attorney of Urbana.  The hero of the piece is Gage Guthrie whose character bears a striking resemblance to Roarke in Nora Roberts series written as J.D. Robb.  There's also a mystery hero who roams the streets at night, Nemesis, who reminded me a great deal of Batman!  Deborah first encounters the illusive Nemesis when she is attacked one night after visiting a potential witness in a bad part of the city.  The story has twists, turns and many surprises.  A fantastic read that keeps the readers attention!<br />NIGHTSHADE:  Lieutenant Althea Grayson was Detective Boyd Fletcher's partner in Night Shift.  Now Boyd Fletcher is Captain and Althea ends up partnering with Private Investigator Colt Nightshade to find a young girl who ran away from home and was then abducted and held prisoner by a porn-video ring.  Althea has her own past shadows that make her a tough cop and an even tougher woman.  Colt is an old school friend of Boyd's and is in Denver to find the girl because her parents, old friends, asked thathe intervene after they received a letter from a young woman who said she had seen their daughter.  Sparks fly between Althea and Colt as she is a `by the books' copy and he is a `no rules apply' kind of guy.  The mystery of the girls whereabouts and the powers behind the porno-video ring unfold to a dramatic and class A mystery ending.  A terrific read, beginning to end.<br />NIGHT SMOKE:  Natalie Fletcher, Boyd Fletcher's sister, is head of the Fletcher business empire.  Natalie is fiercely working on the opening of a new chain of women's high class lingerie when the warehouse containing the majority of her stock burns down.  Arson inspector Ryan Piasecki determines the fire is arson and sets out to uncover the motive and the criminal.  Natalie and Ryan are exact opposites and immediately lock horns.  This book brings back the characters from all the previous stories and it's great to meet them again.  There's a dramatic conclusion to the story, with Nemesis lending a hand and the surprise of who is actually behind the fires and the motive.	2000-09-23
US	51636151	R310EA62Z2QMH1	0440235510	746311637	Whirlwind Wedding	Books	5	44	45	N	N	Fantastic from Beginning to End	Whirlwind Wedding kept me stuck like glue to my sofa for two days while I  read this great new book from Jacquie D'Alessandro from cover to  cover.<br />Austin Jamison, the hero in the book, starts out as a somewhat  dark and stubborn guy with a family secret that's weighing heavily on him.  It doesn't take Elizabeth Matthews, our heroine, long to start effecting  Austin in ways he never thought possible.<br />This book has everything I look  for and want in a romance novel.  It has the romance, of course, but it  also has mystery, a great deal of humor and a surprise ending.<br />Some of  the funniest stuff I have read in a long time is about the kittens whose  names are hysterically Gadzooks, Egad, Balderdash, Damn It All, and Bloody  Hell.  Ms. D'Alessandro has a fantastic sense of humor and amused me  continually through the entire story.<br />The twist of Elizabeth having the  gift of sight is an interesting twist and was used cleverly in this story.   I hope we can look forward to another book about Austin's brother,  Robert.<br />Ms. D'Alessandro's last two books, Kiss the Cook a contemporary  romance and Red Roses Mean Love an historical romance, were both excellent  and highly recommended.  Whirlwind Wedding is better yet and I would  recommend this book to anyone who enjoys romance, a good mystery plot and  the added bonus of a good laugh out loud!	2000-09-18
US	51636151	RJOVAP5QAN6DN	0446601853	932954693	Charade	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great Mystery	I couldn't figure out the murderer until nearly the end of this book.   Sandra Brown has managed to combine love, suspense and some insight into  the life of a heart transplantee and come up with a great read.	2000-09-18
US	51636151	R1WUV7CJ8DYE6O	0446603309	392118825	The Witness	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mystery Lovers Rejoice!	Suspense and romance.  There are many plot twists that keep you guessing  right up until the end.  When you think you've got it all figured out, she  throws in another twist! But there are no loose ends left by the satisfying  and surprising finale.	2000-09-18
US	51636151	R3HUA8L2CPAQF0	0312205406	963436946	Hot Six	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Hot Six and Counting	This is the sixth book in the series about Stephanie Plum, Trenton, New  Jersey's hysterically inept bounty hunter.  In this latest escapade, she is  searching for her friend and fellow bounty hunter, Ranger, who is also  sought by the police for questioning in the murder of an organized crime  figure.  Stephanie believes Ranger is innocent and if anything, only kills  bad guys. <br />Joe Morelli, hunk cop, is here in all his glory and there's a  surprise at the end, which I hope will be answered in the 7th  book!<br />Stephanie's hysterically funny grandmother has moved in with her.    A cop friend has asked her to dog sit while he goes on vacation, and has no  intention of taking the dog back.  The dog, Bob, as it turns out has a  strange eating problem, he eats everything and anything. There are a couple  scenes involving, ah, dog doo that had me LOL and rolling!  <br />A new  character emerges, Mooner.  Mooner is a chronically stoned guy and very  funny.  He adds considerably to the chuckles in this new Plum mystery.   Other critics have written that Evanovich doesn't write mystery, or that  the plot hasn't changed, etc., etc., etc.   In this dreary day and age  anything that can make me laugh out loud is worth reading, for sure.	2000-09-18
US	51636151	R1XC5K9H1XPLOL	0446353957	702961086	Mirror Image	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What a Book!	Sandra Brown amazes me with her imagination and her ability to come up  with such fantastic stories.  Avery's commitment to help Tate and let  everyone believe the real Avery is dead gives enormous strength to Avery's  character. Finding out who the murderers are is one shock after another.   Definitely recommended!	2000-09-18
US	51636151	RGZ0MHAYHAW21	0553290851	706443797	22 Indigo Place	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Somewhere in the Middle	I've read many of Sandra Brown's novels and liked them all.  I even liked  this one, but only half as much as any one of the books in her  &quot;Texas&quot; series.  James was a good character, much like so many of  Sandra Brown's male heros.  Not great, but not bad either.	2000-09-18
US	51636151	R33LH3Q87FZ0K7	0743500296	913869672	The Camino: A Journey of the Spirit	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Spiritual Journey by a Courageous Lady	I listened to Shirley read this book on the audio version and I applaud  Shirley for the courage to complete this journey of the Spirit. I think  hearing her voice added to the impact of this story.<br />Shirley's past lives  came to her as she made this grueling trek and they were, to me, the meat  of this audio/book.  She once lived along the Camino, and there are two  amazing past life experiences in Lemuria and Atlantis. <br />Shirley's honesty  and courage in telling her story is inspiring.   The reader also gains much  food for thought.  The lessons she learns and fears that she has to conquer  in order to complete the journey.   &quot;Never ask yourself what it is you  fear - instead ask yourself what it is that concerns you. A fear thought,  put out, will return, because all energy returns to the sender. Any energy  always makes a loop until it regains the source. A concern thought will  return also. A that moment discern why you're concerned.&quot;   Certainly  gave me something to think about.<br />I got involved in past life regressions  as a result of reading Shirley's first and second books.  We all have our  own philosophy, of course, and Shirley MacLaine has given voice to another  way of thinking that also needs to be acknowledged in our world.	2000-09-18
US	51636151	R19R8QQYSKJA9F	0515127833	763909406	River's End	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Another Roberts Winner	Sam and Julie's four-year-old daughter, Olivia, was in the house the night  her mother was murdered.  She tried to find her mother and finds her father  bending over her mother's bloody body. She hides in a closet where she was  later found by a policeman, Frank Brady. <br />Although her mother's twin  sister, Jamie, and her husband, David, would have loved to have Olivia live  with them, it was decided she should go to live with her grandparents who  run River's End, a lodge and campground on Washington state's Olympic  Peninsula far from the media circus. Livvy thrives in the safe environment  provided by her loving grandparents. Loving nature, she goes to college  majoring in resource science and returns to River's End to open a  naturalist center.<br />Twenty years after the murder, Sam Tanner's parole has  continued to be denied thanks in large large part to the testimony of Frank  Brady and Olivia's aunt, Jamie. Stricken with a terminal illness and  anticipating release, Sam contacts bestselling true-crime author Noah Brady  to finally tell his side of the story. Noah just happens to be the son of  Frank Brady and has long been interested in the case; and, particularly in  Livvy, who he has had contact with several times in the past 20 years. Noah  knows he will have to get all sides of the story, not just Sam's which will  mean seeing Livvy again.<br />When Noah sees Livvy, the attraction is still  there but little does he know that in his quest to tell her father's story,  her life will be in danger for there is one person who knows the truth of  what happened that night 20 years before.<br />RIVER'S END is Nora Roberts at  her very best!	2000-09-17
US	51636151	RCH419B3WNABP	0425173631	653412877	Witness in Death	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Another &quot;In Death&quot; Winner	Nora Roberts writing as J.D. Robb gives us the &quot;In Death&quot; series  of murder mysteries in a futuristic setting.  New York Police Lieutenant  Eve Dalls is tough, hard hitting, and a good cop.  Beneath the hard  exterior there is a woman with compassion for the victims of the crimes she  investigates.  The unlikely romance between Eve and Roarke, a  multi-millionaire who made his millions by not so legal means, is hot,  unpredictable and the stuff that romance novels are a about.  The latest in  the series, &quot;Witness in Death&quot; starts with Eve and Roarke  attending opening night at the New Globe Theater and witnessing a real  murder on the stage.  It's fantastically entertaining, as all the J.D. Robb  books are, and we get to see more of Peabody, Eve's assistant who is such a  great character in her own right.   I started this series a few years ago  with book two and decided I had to read them all!  I acquired all the books  in the series up to that point and started with the first one.  I loved it  even though I had already read the second.  A terrific series I grab each  new book that comes out and devour it.  Highly recommended!	2000-09-17
US	51636151	R1T7G6JYBBY1VH	0385334702	972743089	After The Fire: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Good Read	Hyacinth the romantic, young artist who believes in true love and Gerald fresh out of medical school get married. Gerald has big plans for the  future and wants the social status that Hyacinth's family can provide.  Hyacinth's needs true love that she doesn't believe she truly deserves.  <br />Hyacinth discovers that Gerald is cheating on her.  Gerald manipulates  Hyacinth into believing that she is emotionally unstable.  A fire breaks  out in the medical offices and Gerald learns that Hyacinth had been there.   He accuses her of starting the fire that cost a fireman his life.  And with  this blackmail is able to take custody of their children.  While grieving  for her children and for the comfort and warmth of the home she had made  with them Hyacinth recreates her life.  The end is victorious and the  secret to the mystery surprising.  A great book.	2000-09-17
US	51636151	R2CZTWK8KWJ7XA	0671004565	203276036	We'll Meet Again	Books	5	1	2	N	N	My First MHC was Fantastic	Believe it or not, this is the first time I've read anything by Mary  Higgins Clark and I loved it.  Molly Carpenter Lasch, was tried and  convicted of murdering her husband, Dr. Gary Lasch, despite the fact she  remembered nothing about the night he was killed. After being released on  parole, Molly asserts her innocence again in front of the media. Among the  media, Fran Simmons, an old classmate of Molly's from high school, begins  covering the story for the local television station for a segment called  True Crimes. Molly agrees to an interview with Fran and convinces Fran to  help her investigate the murder further in order to find the answers that  are at the edge of her memory.  During the course of the investigation, a  key witness is discovered murdered only hours after Molly questioned the  witness.  This story holds the reader captive until the very end.  Highly  recommended.	2000-09-17
US	51636151	R2K1OPEKPOOFE8	0553106333	14890872	Ashes to Ashes	Books	5	1	2	N	N	On the Edge of your Seat!	The final pages of Tami Hoag's Ashes to Ashes will have you sitting on the  edge of your seat wishing you could read faster.  I have read all of Ms.  Hoag's books starting from way back when she wrote romance novels.  They've  all been excellent.  In the last few years her mystery novels have topped  my list of 'must read' books consistently.  The comradarie that is apparent  between the police detectives in this novel is intense.  The murders are  puzzling and guessing who the murder is will keep you busy when you're not  reading the book.  Another winner, hands down.	2000-09-15
US	51636151	R3D8D4ZO1ZASJF	0373484003	678331271	Irish Hearts (Mills & Boon Special Releases)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Early Works of a Great Writer	I was happy to find Irish Hearts containing Irish Thoroughbred, Nora  Roberts first novel.  Having started reading Roberts only 3 or 4 years ago,  I hadn't been able to find some of her earlier work.  I was very impressed  with Irish Thoroughbred as a first work.  I thought it was excellent.  The  romance that grows between Adelia Cunnane (Dee), an orphan from Ireland  brought to America by her uncle Padrick, and Travis Grant a rich and  successful horse breeder that her uncle Padrick works for as his trainer,  is engaging, passionate and endearing.  Dee's Irish temper and tomboy  abilities win the heart of the hunky Travis Grant.<br />Irish Rose, the follow  up book to Irish Thoroughbred, is about Dee's cousin Erin McKinnon and  Burke Logan, friend and neighbor to the Grants.<br />The book starts out in  Ireland when Dee and Travis bring their children for a visit with Erin's  family.  Burke has gone along for the trip on Travis's suggestion to look  into buying some thoroughbred horses in Ireland.  Burke offers Erin a job  keeping the books for his ranch in America giving her the opportunity she  has been looking for to leave her small Irish village.  She accepts the  job.  The storyline is a good one as it describes Erins impressions of  America and the lifestyle.  Fascinating as the relationship between these  two strangers grows and the begin to fall in love.  I highly recommend both  of these stories as great reads for Nora Roberts fans.	2000-09-15
US	51636151	R8UPX4RVQDHU2	0373243286	48776421	Irish Rebel (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1328) (Irish Hearts)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Engaging Read with a History	Having read Nora Roberts' first book written in 1981, Irish Thoroughbred,  this book was fun because it featured the daughter of the couple in that  first book.  Keely, daughter of Adelia and Travis Grant, is every bit as  independent and feisty as her Irish mother and as strongly committed to her  values and honor as her father.  Brian Donnelly is brought to America from  Ireland by Travis Grant to take over the job of horse trainer on his ranch.   Brian and Keely lock horns immediately.  Brian thinks she is a spoiled  princess when actually Keely is a hard worker who has her own business  teaching rich and poor children how to ride. Keely thinks Brian has a chip  on his shoulder. Brian eventually discovers what Keely does and how she  helps children and also mistreated horses and offers to help her.  <br />The  book is entertaining, enjoyable and relaxing to read.  Especially if you've  read the first novel.  In addition to reading Irish Rebel, I'd suggest  getting Nora Roberts Irish Hearts, which contains the first novel, Irish  Thoroughbred and the second novel, Irish Rose all three are great books  you're sure to enjoy.	2000-09-15
US	51636151	RZXTZJ7M79TJO	0399145923	573580919	Carolina Moon	Books	5	5	7	N	N	An Enthralling Mystery	Nora Roberts is an excellent romance writer, she's also an excellent  mystery writer.  Carolina Moon was fascinating with Tory Bodeen's psychic  ability adding an erie quality to the story.  When Tory decides to return  home to open a design store she also decides she will put to rest her  tragic past.  A past the includes the murder of her best friend and the  memories of a brutal father.  The romance that develops between Tory and  Cade, her deceased best friend's brother, is touching and sensitively  written as Tory is torn between loving him and revealing to him the truth  about herself.  An absolute must read.	2000-09-15
US	51636151	R36L3E1E4CWI99	0515128015	862934849	Eclipse Bay	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Rich Girl, Bad Boy-- Great Chemistry	Jayne Ann Krentz tops herself with this first book, Eclipse Bay, in her  new trilogy.  The Hartes are logical, the Madisons passionate, and the two  families have hated each other for generations.  Hannah Harte unwittingly  becomes an alibi for Rafe Madison when she encounters him on the beach late  one night.  The next day she learns that a girl Rafe had dated was found  murdered and he is suspect in the crime.  She comes forward with the story  of their time spent together at the time the crime was committed and puts a  dent in her reputation in the town.<br />Eight years later Hannah's aunt  dies leaving her mansion to Hannah and Rafe.  The two come together back in  Eclipse Bay to sort out the problem of who will get the mansion, solve and  eight year old murder and fall in love.<br />The story is engaging and  Hannah and Rafe are perfect together.  He has loved her since that night on  the beach and she has always been more then a little attracted to him.<br />A  great entertaining read.  Now we just have to wait for the next one.	2000-09-15
US	51636151	ROJWIR6M06SV8	0671032992	427650271	Heartbreaker	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Gripping plot with great characters	Suspense is the first word that comes to mind to describe Julie Garwood's  Heartbreaker.  Without revealing the end, it was a complete surprise when I  finally read who the murderer/stalker turned out to be.  FBI agent Nick  Buchanan as the hero is the perfect blend of humor, macho and  sensitive...hard to believe.  And Laurant as the intended victim is feisty,  brave and frightened all at the same time.  The romance that grows between  Nick and Laurant is squeezed between the suspense and drama of catching a  killer and has some very humorous moments.  A riveting read, highly  recommended.	2000-09-15
US	51636151	R2UWUVQPMNVX7H	037348397X	909727713	The Donovan Legacy: Captivated/ Entranced/ Charmed	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Absolutely Magical	I love it when Nora Roberts departs from serious mystery or romance to  write fantasy.  I thoroughly enjoyed all the stories of the Donovan Legacy.   All the cousins were each great characters that Roberts develops into  intriguing personalities with talents, loves and their own brand of magic.   Roberts other books, Enchanted, Tears of the Moon, Jewels of the Sun are  similar if you liked this book you will love them too.  People watch TV to  escape, I don't find TV an escape since it deals too much with our reality.   These stories are truly escape since they are fantasy and lovely magical  stories.	2000-09-15
US	51636151	R3MSP7V3OZPQ3	038531972X	615754986	Ghost Moon	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Romance, Murder, Mystery, Suspense	Ghost Moon fills the bill with the spine-tingling murderer who steals 8 year old girls from their beds, the glorious romance that develops between  Olivia Morrison and her step-cousin Seth, and the mystery of Olivia's  mother's death when Olivia was a child.  The dramatic climax in this novel  is riveting, I stayed up until 4:00 a.m. to finish the book.  A definite  must read for those who enjoy mystery and romance.	2000-09-15
US	51636151	R32AHN0AJ6G183	0515128546	913543903	Tears of the Moon  (Irish Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	The Magic of Ireland	This second book, Tears of the Moon, in Nora Roberts' Irish Trilogy is  every bit as wonderful as the first, Jewels of the Sun.  The characters, of  course, are the same but the focus has shifted to Brenna O'Toole that  feisty handy-woman and Shawn Gallagher the dreamer song writer who works at  the Gallaghers family-owned pub as the cook.  The magical legend of the  beautiful ghost that lives in the cottage Shawn now inhabits continues.   But Shawn doesn't see her, Brenna does, and she receives a message from  this beautiful ghost about Shawn's music.  A message she doesn't fully  understand.  Shawn, however, meets and talks with Carrick, prince of the  faeries, who gives him a pearl and some advice that Shawn decides he isn't  going to take.  When Brenna decides to take matters into her own hands and  seduce Shawn, he is completely thrown by this development, even though he  discovers his (previously unknown to him) passion for her.  Shawn finally  recognizes his musical talent and finds someone who is anxious to publish  his work.  The beautiful descriptions of Ireland in the book make you want  to visit this enchanted place and maybe meet a faery there as well.  The  next, and last, book in the trilogy will focus on Darcy, the Gallagher's  independent and beautiful sister.  Eagerly awaiting &quot;Heart of the  Sea&quot;.	2000-09-15
US	51636151	R1RKO1I4D5UVK0	0553106341	334109426	Dust to Dust	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Mystery for Real Mystery Lovers	Tami Hoag writes one of the best mystery novels in contemporary literature  today.  You will find yourself thinking about the book and trying to puzzle  out the murder while you're doing other things...like driving, or working!   Dust to Dust continued with some of the characters from Ms. Hoag's last  book, Ashes to Ashes.  The detectives, Sam Kovac and his partner Nikki  Liska, add depth, intensity and strength to the police work involved in  solving the murders in Dust to Dust.  A definite must read for those who  have read Tami Hoag's other mystery novels, and a definite must read for  those who haven't yet discovered Ms. Hoag's talents.	2000-09-15
US	51636151	R1MR2C4W1PT3YI	0440235510	746311637	Whirlwind Wedding	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Better and Better	Ms. D'Alessandro has written a winner with Whirlwind Wedding.  Her first  book, Red Roses Mean Love, was extraordinary!  Her recent contemporary  novel, Kiss the Cook, is a light hearted, amusing and thoroughly enjoyable  story.  But Whirlwind Wedding shows that Ms. D'Alessandro is indeed getting  better and better with each book she writes.  In WWW the main characters,  Elizabeth and Austin, come to life early in the book and I found Elizabeth  to be intelligent, funny and feisty. Austin is stubborn, of course, but  endearing as he learns that Elizabeth is not intimidated by him or his  title and isn't trying to win him over.  The names for the kittens,  Gadzooks, Egad, Fiddlesticks, et al... and how they came to be named is  hilarious.  Elizabeth and Austin have a running &quot;language&quot; joke  (she being American, he English) that is funny, true to life and natural.  Although the book is very amusing throughout, there is a fascinating  mystery in the plot that kept me intrigued until the very end.   Bravo  Jacquie!  WWW has it all, humor, mystery, great lovable characters and a  surprise ending!	2000-09-14
US	51636151	RAXCY5BNBCWE8	082176604X	844400143	Kiss The Cook (Zebra Bouquet Romances)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Another winner for Ms. D'Alessandro	After reading &quot;Red Roses Mean Love&quot; I couldn't wait to read Ms. D'Alessandro's next book!  I received &quot;Kiss the Cook&quot; from Amazon.com while working on site on a project in Dayton, OH.  The charming  and funny Mel Gibson and the totally bodacious Chris Bishop took me  laughing through the tedium of the last days of the project and a long day  traveling home.  A very funny and extremely entertaining book.  I highly  recommend it!	2000-06-11
US	51636151	R3D41SRZLJPRHD	0515126772	914501828	Jewels of the Sun: The Gallaghers of Ardmore Trilogy (Irish Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Makes you want to go to Ireland! Now!	I've read the Donovan series and Enchanted.  Jewels of the Sun was so wonderful because it has the same type of fantasy running through it that the Donovan books have.  The descriptions of the country side are dazzling  and made me want to visit Ireland as soon as I could book a flight.  If  you're looking for romance, and a truly romantic hero then Aidan is the man  you've been waiting for...another reason for going to Ireland! I'm looking  forward to the next book Tears of the Moon featuring Brenna and Aidan's  brother Shawn.  If it's half as good as this one it'll be a winner.	2000-01-11
US	51636151	RAXG72HGNUVWA	0312966970	935167398	Four to Score (Stephanie Plum, No. 4) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Best Yet!	My Aunt told me about the Stephanie Plum series and said they were great.  I bought them all and spent the entire New Year's weekend reading one after the other.  They were all great, but Four To Score was the BEST!  This book  made me laugh until tears rolled down my face!  Stephanie's 'thinking'  process about &quot;Mr. Lumpy&quot; had me on the floor.  Lulu's  description of a guy who was visually challenged...blind?...no, ugly.  Was  hysterical.  I was also happy to see that Stephanie and Morelli FINALLY got  together, but not surprised that by the end of the book they were back to  playing the on again off again game.  Yes, I agree with all the other  reviewers, Ms. Evanovich has to write faster!   Thanks for the laughs, we  could use more of them.	2000-01-11
US	51636151	R3K3T012DTH97Z	0312203039	442694342	High Five (Stephanie Plum, No. 5) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Read!	I've read all the books in this series and they are all terrific.  Very funny!  Poor Stephanie keeps getting her cars blown up or stolen and a Porsche and BMW no less!  Adding Ranger as a love interest was a good idea,  maybe Morelli will start to come around now.  But we have to wait for Hot  Six in May (or June?) to find out who Stephanie invited over to, ah, see  her hot dress!  Ms. Evanovich, how could you do this to us!	2000-01-11
US	51636151	RZ5LAD3FMY58F	0782122280	631668778	MCSD: Visual Basic 5 Study Guide	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Get A Different book to Study for the exam!	Mistakes, mistakes everywhere!  When following instructions to create a practice application, the code was wrong, it didn't work! Even the CD-ROM stuff was incorrect. Studying for these cert tests is tough enough without  the added frustration of textbooks proclaiming to be &quot;Study  Guides&quot; that are riddled with gross errors. I ended up using  Microsoft's VB Programmers Guide and the Visual Basic 5.0 online  documentation. I passed the certification test (hurrah) but certainly NOT  due to any help from this book! Don't people read/edit or review this  stuff? Doesn't the author check to be sure his code produces the desired  results?	1999-12-03
US	51636151	RF8K996TAR8DD	1861001347	246397782	Beginning Active Server Pages 2.0	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Finally, an excellent ASP beginner-intermediate book!	I knew nada about ASP when I ordered this book and I have now completed my second web site.  The descriptions are clear and the exercises are correct!  Actually correct!  I have used many computer books with exercises that  didn't work.  This book is well written, easy to understand and teaches the  technology in a clear and concise manner.  I highly recommend it.	1999-11-30
US	51636151	R2V3HS0TMOCZYE	0425150984	203707661	Glory in Death	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Great Ending!	I read every J.D. Robb (Nora Roberts) book I can find.  I have enjoyed them all. This one had a great ending and kept me guessing about 'who done it' until the wrap up.  I really like Eve Dallas and Roarke as a couple and  Eve as a cop is perfect.  I'm looking forward to the next one &quot;Witness  in Death&quot;.	1999-11-29
US	51636151	R23JIG2MCF1IXQ	0440235537	503029624	Red Roses Mean Love	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A historical women's libber for sure!	The heroine of this book is really great, she's writing &quot;men's stories&quot; in a &quot;men's&quot; magazine to support her family.  Very cool.  All the characters were funny and believably real. I was glad to see  the 'hero' came around and turned out to be a good guy after all. I can  hardly wait for Ms. D'Alessandro's next book in May &quot;Kiss the  Cook&quot;.  The excerpt on her web site has made me impatient for the  rest.  Good Job Jacquie!	1999-11-22
US	51636151	R2AN5X719NBXQB	0440235537	503029624	Red Roses Mean Love	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Funny, Romantic Historical Novel	I'm an avid reader of Jayne Ann Krentz (not of her Amanda Quick series, however), Nora Roberts (and her J.D. Robb series) and numerous other contemporary authors.  I never had any interest in historical  romance...until Jacquie D'Alessandro's &quot;Red Roses Mean Love&quot;.   This book made me laugh and cry.  The mental pictures I had of the cook  covered with whatever food he had hanging all over him cracked me up!  I'm  a convert to anything Ms. D'Alessandro writes.  Can't wait for her next  book.	1999-09-30
US	51636151	R1LHAFGT6VVF95	0782122280	631668778	MCSD: Visual Basic 5 Study Guide	Books	1	0	0	N	N	The Worst! Really Lame	Mistakes, mistakes everywhere!!  When following instructions to create a practice application, the code was wrong, it didn't work!  Even the CD-ROM stuff was incorrect. Studying for these cert tests is tough enough without  the added frustration of textbooks proclaiming to be &quot;Study  Guides&quot; that are riddled with gross errors. I ended up using  Microsoft's VB Programmers Guide and the Visual Basic 5.0 online  documentation.  I passed the certification test (hurrah) but certainly NOT  due to any help from this book!  don't people read/edit or review this  stuff?  Doesn't the author check to be sure his code produces the desired  results??	1999-03-22
