US	51648684	R3E2VBFYBERFAX	0446610860	658581457	The Rules(TM) for Marriage: Time-Tested Secrets for Making Your Marriage Work	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Isn't it ironic	I find it a little ironic the one of the authors of The Rules was going through a divorce at the time this book was published.  Did she write this before or after her marriage ended?  Makes me wonder. <br /> <br />While the authors of The Rules may have scored points with at least a percent of the population with their first two books (the On Line version of The Rules was yet to be published), they were not so successful with this one.  Many of these things are common sense, the Golden Rule approach to life of \\"do onto others as you would have done onto you\\".  If I have a bad day at work I don't want anyone bothering me when I get home, and I'm sure he wouldn't either, for example.  And that is a good point to make to most gals to not get bent out of shape if you're not thanked for doing the housework.  Housework is never going to end, get over it.   <br /> <br />There's no such thing as a perfect life, everyone's going to fight and have bad times.  But if you let someone win everytime, always get his way, you'll just be a doormat.  As women we are taught to be less aggressive, but unfortunatly that's why we are also such targets of abuse and become victims.  Our self esteem is slowly but surly chipped away by many facets.  If anything the woman ends up changing to meet his needs all too often and we end up high and dry.  That's why you have to be more assertive in life. <br /> <br />It's also ironic that there are so many people out there who are so immature as to think they deserve title and reward for even the most trivial of tasks.  Get used to the mundane, people.  It's what you make of it.	2005-10-07
US	51648684	R1O4QWUZHPZ6WK	0740720619	933877260	Love: A Celebration of One of the Four Basic Guilt Groups	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Why do fools fall in love?	Never before had I read the trials and tribulations of love in the way Cathy Guisewite described it in the introduction of this little book.  Because of Dad's love for his daughter and the later reinforcement of the fairy tales we read as children, we as women are programed to find love.  Social changes and circumstances, however, have disappointed us.  It's disconcerting to find out that there are so many losers out there and you have to search far and wide amongst the frogs for that elusive prince on a white horse.  But we never give up, because love is always worth another shot.  We have hope, if nothing else.	2005-10-06
US	51648684	R1ZS3TKQRLD3R9	0740720627	378678160	Work: A Celebration of One of the Four Basic Guilt Groups	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Not always the funniest, but always the most insightful	I've been reading Cathy comics since I was a kid, only because it seemed to be the only \\"girl comic book character\\" who was not a superhero but a real person.  As an adult, I see so much more into Cathy's evolution as our culture has evolved.  And as work is a major fascet of life, it shows how the workplace has changed right along with the rest of us. <br /> <br />How ironic are the latent effects of social changes and how they relate to the office!  Within 30 years it's been turned onto itself.  Women were being told so long ago that they didn't have to stay home but to have jobs, careers, interests, etc. other than our families.  We went into the workforce with abundance.  Ask anyone in an office, and they will tell you times have changed.  Now, women work to make ends meet.  More than half of the women (whether they be married, single or divorced) in my office are the breadwinners in their households.  Many are supporting deadbeat boyfriends or some other terrible domestic situation.  People are coming to work not because they want to support their families or themselves, but because they want to get away from whatever's going on at home.  As Cathy points out, that's why so many offices look like homes now days. <br /> <br />Throw in all those factors plus the topics du jour (ex. sexual harrassment) and you've got a disaster on your hands.  Cathy, though not always the most hilariously funny, reads it just like a Woody Allen movie.  Stumbling through life one foot at a time until you take a flying Dick Van Dyke leap into disaster after disaster, but pulling through.	2005-10-05
US	51648684	RYO5DAAZE5YR5	0062730428	987818425	The Art of Makeup	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	True art in make up	While his other books are more of a how to on make up, this is more of an art book than a guide.  Kevyn Aucoine was a master of the art, no question, and he made some of the most beautiful faces ever captured on film.  The average so and so will never use things like face tape, false eyelashes, and spirit gum.  I'm one of the rare few who isn't in theater and uses those things on occation for a fancy dress occation!  You have to know what you're doing for some of these looks.  Plus, the finished product was meant to be photographed rather than seen by the public in a normal setting.  Enjoy the finished products for what they are, but take care if and when putting together.	2005-10-04
US	51648684	R3HTAIXFFQIQ72	0316143464	555987354	Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Meet the Sedaris family again!	The saga of the eccentric Sedaris family continues in David Sedaris's next book, \\"Dress Your Family in Denim and Corderoy\\".  Here we meet a few characters glossed over in previous stories and the continuation of his established ones.  His sister Tiffany, only mentioned as window dressing in past stories, is reveiled as the perhaps the oddest of them all.  A reformed runaway who tried to remove her braces with pilers, she makes her living as a junk scavenger and sometimes chef.  And his brother The Rooster.  How could you not laugh your head off at his antics?  His home was the home of a confused clown equiped with barking dogs, mechanical farting sounds, and even a rooster embeded into the floor.  The Rooster preforms his most daring feat yet, getting married and having a baby!  Suddenly we see a kinder, gentler Rooster, still cursing like a drunken sailor but now in a much softer voice due to his newly aquired fatherhood.  We also find out that Lou, his widower father, is still puttering around becoming weird and paranoid, saving money by taking the pet medication rather than his own.   <br /> <br />We also explore more of his relationship with Hugh, his long time boyfriend, and his continued adjustment to living in France.  What a culture shock.  He and Hugh have been together for ten years and while there aren't a whole lot of surprises left, their love for each other is obvious despite their banter. <br /> <br />One thing that David mentioned was the trials of being a writer and having people act strange around him.  That is most certainly true, I have experienced this as well.  You write about people, and some get so bent out of shape about it even if your intention was anything but humorous and/or friendly.  Hey, let the world beware.  It's our art, not yours.  And we make you famous, something you always wanted right?   <br /> <br />A wonderful, hilarious collection of stories and trains of thought.  Dive in head first and you won't be sorry.	2005-09-23
US	51648684	R2B634430JDXUJ	0316779423	685145331	Barrel Fever: Stories and Essays	Books	3	5	5	N	N	The first effort, and it shows	While I have been a longtime fan of David Sedaris's, this book was clearly a first effort.  There are some wonderful essays such as \\"Seasons Greetings to Our Friends and Family!\\", as well as his masterpiece, \\"The Santaland Diaries\\", but the rest were dead in the water.  I understand them, they are to show us the hiden perversions in us all, but the above named essays would later reappear in his holiday collection for a reason: They were much funnier and more deserving of aclaim.  Still, it was a good first effort, and I'm glad he became more polished and articulate.	2005-09-21
US	51648684	R179IADBYCBQJ4	0316776963	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hilarious inspiration	As a fan of the author, I'm going to write a glowing review of his work regaurdless of content.  I followed his example, writing stories about my family and turned them into somewhat tall tales.  But David Sedaris absolutely, poisitively rocks.    While here we take another look at his ever evolving path in life as he teaches French classes and eventually moves to France with his boyfriend Hugh, the stories about his personal experiences and his family are the true gems.  We can all relate to his stories as a child, in his case being picked on and forced to undergo the humiliation of speech therapy in school.  That was a good point, if they singled out the future homosexuals through this process then what did they do for the future drunks or wife beaters?  And what's so hilarious is that when I look back on the kids I went to grade school with I see signs of that behavior in the adults they became.  But who knew then?    I roared with laugher about his family pets and how Lou and Sharon loved their Great Dane, Molina, more than their own children.  Now that my sister and I are out of the house, my parents did the same thing (only they have cats).  12 Moments In The Life of an Artist was wonderful as it preys on every pretentious artist I've ever encountered.  \\"It's all about my art! You just don't understand! I'm too creative to lead a 9 to 5 type life!\\"  Yeah, they're too creative to lead a mundane life and they're always broke, but they have plenty of money to buy drugs and are creative enough to make messes rather than a living all in the name of art.  His father made one story by shouting \\"Hey there, sport!\\" during one of his preformance art presentations, and the whole audience thought it was brilliant and revolutionary.  HA!    And how can we ignore the baby of the family, his brother Paul, a.k.a. The Rooster?  You could write a book about that nutcase!  His hillbilly, obnoxious, crass brother getting into fist fights and floor sanding for a living whose speech is a complex hybrid of rap music, New Yorkese and a South Carolina drawl.  You couldn't make that up!      A hilarious, yet serious look at life.  A must have for any writer for wonderful inspiration and a zest for life.	2005-09-21
US	51648684	R2XSU9FL0VXQ78	1842402463	140226998	The Band That Time Forgot: The Complete Unauthorised Biography of Guns N' Roses	Books	2	11	12	N	N	Chinese Democracy, the album we will never see (big surprise)	I used to love Guns N' Roses.  I doubt they themselves thought that they would turn into such a worldwide phenomena.  They were part of a unique niche of metal bands with similar stories where the members all migrated to the West Coast to make it big.  They indulged in sex, drugs and rock n' roll, made no bones about the fact that they weren't choir boys.  Riots, fast cars and flashy women, and living on the edge were what it was all about.  Appetite for Destruction was perhaps one of the greatest metal albums in history with stadium rock anthems.  They were one of the monsters of rock. <br /> <br />And then ... it all fell apart.  The music climate had changed as Seattle overtook the landscape.  Troubles with the law, tensions within, stints in rehab, and a huge mess of bad choices led to their inevitable split.  Axl was greedy, others were stupid, and they were all pretty immature to begin with.  In this book you won't find out anything you didn't already know (or can gather if you're completly new to the material).  Axl owns the Guns N' Roses name, and he pushed eveyone out of the way to get it.  The others moved on to other projects, the latest being Velvet Revolver - which is not bad.   <br /> <br />DO NOT ACCEPT THINGS IN THIS BOOK AS THE TRUTH.  I say that for several reasons.  The typos are just ridiculous.  I'm not the best speller in the world but they could've at least run a spell check here and there, leading us to believe that they aren't that swift to begin with.  They omit a few key players such as Steven Adler.  He would have things to say about them no doubt.  The man had a stroke he was doing so much cocaine, and what happened?  Like a lot of people who hit rock bottem, the people they thought were their friends abandon them.  Shows what kind of friends (let alone people) they are. <br /> <br />Do we miss them?  Not really.  We moved on and absence didn't make the heart grow fonder.  We'll never see the promised Chinese Democracy, and after Axl wasBotoxed until his face was pulled taught for the few public appearences he made he learned his lesson and won't be coming out of his cave for a while.  This is a dramatic story, and looking back I realize they are all far better off that they aren't together anymore.  They chose to self destruct without being in a band.	2005-09-19
US	51648684	R24RNJY754MS9O	0060539097	194206386	How to Make Love Like a Porn Star: A Cautionary Tale	Books	3	7	12	N	N	It's about commerce, not about free speech	It seems that porn has become a glorified medium in society today.  While it was once a shameful, back alley thing is now big business.  Where once it was a shameful secret from the past if someone uncovers nude photos or video of you from years ago and publishes them, it now only boasts your image or career.  Even if you're some nobody, you can show what a rebel you are by appearing in something homemade smut film because you're a \\"Bad Girl\\" (or a \\"Bad Boy\\" for that matter).  Porn has gone Hollywood.   <br /> <br />Jenna Jamieson was just another bad girl.  She was already a troubled child by the time she met with her first terrifying sexual assault.  Like a lot of adult film stars, Jenna descended from there into an abyss of drugs, sex and abuse.  Many adult film stars report at later dates being physically forced, held against their will, or kept under the influence of drugs and alcohol to preform before the cameras.  They keep returning to this world, however, because they are ashamed or addicted.  Jenna admits herself that she just wanted to be loved, and she ended up being used and abused by these big and little time operators. <br /> <br />This is not a glamorous world, not by any means.  It is a vicious cycle of sex, drugs and terrible things beyond any stretch of the imagination.  And yet, Jenna emerged from the dregs of society not as a reformed addict or even a \\"nice, normal person\\", but a celebrity.  Instead of going to a new town, changing her name, and restarting her life afresh (as no doubt a lot others have who used to be in this business), Jenna took her status as a porn star and carries it like a banner.  She's more famous than she was at her lowest point.  Her attitude is \\"I'm dealing with what I've been dealt\\". <br /> <br />Hmmm...  Well, I guess we should be proud that she's done something with herself rather than become a statistic.  But she continues to glamorize the porn industry with her currant image.  Well yes, you might say, it's her right to do so.  And yes, it certainly is her right as well as anyone else's right to live as they choose, but she is still pushing to glorify an ideal out of something sordid.  Pornography is not about free speech, it's about commerce.  Jenna Jamieson might be trying to warn others about the dangers of this industry, but she is still selling a line of products to make money for herself.     <br /> <br />Read this book as a means of learning what not to do.  Be thankful to your parents for interfering and keeping you on the strait and narrow.  And most important of all, know that you can be a Bad Girl on your own time and you don't have to live vicariously through others to be one.	2005-09-19
US	51648684	R2MKBXRK9AWRWP	0452152984	146685771	The Sleeping Beauty Novels: The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty / Beauty's Release / Beauty's Punishment	Books	3	16	20	N	N	This ain't no fairy tale!	A friend from my college years indroduced me to this series of books, she was a fan of Anne Rice and had excitedly discovered this series that she had writen under a pen name.  I'm kind of in the middle myself about Anne Rice, but thought I would give it a read.  The neivity and casual attitide are always typical starts of my hilarious adventures and exploration. <br /> <br />The first book, The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty, begins at the end of the classic fairy tale of Sleeping Beauty, where the handsome prince awakens Sleeping Beauty from her hundred years' cursed sleep.  He wakes her up with anything but the innocent kiss of true love for starts, then takes her as his slave to his faraway kingdom.  Something that struck me as funny (even though it wasn't really), was when she was brought downstairs to see her parents and others in the castle who have also awakened.  Her parents, when they are told that Beauty is going to be taken away to the prince's kingdom, ask if they are still practicing the same things that they were in their day.  Is this some kind of right of passage for all the young people (or something). <br /> <br />Here we are taken into a world of whips, chains, and spanking where Beauty is the personal slave of the crown prince himself.  They do it in every way, shape and form you can imagine, with everyone and anyone they get their hands on in Swank Castle.  Originally I listened to this on audio at work, and was paranoid someone would find out what a pervert I was by listening to this.  But of course, no one did. <br /> <br />Beauty misbehaves and his banished from the castle to a nearby city and sold into slavery, bringing us to the second book Beauty's Punishment.  This is still a world of whips and chains, but this is more abusive and a little more bizarre.  There were a few things that made me cring a bit, but there was nothing that I hadn't somehow heard of before. <br /> <br />Eventally, Beauty and others are captured by invading forces andtaken away to the Middle East, beginning book three of Beauty's Release.  Here we continue the exotic erotic exploration which is anywhere from ridiculous to plain bizarre.  Soon Beauty is returned to her homeland, meets her true prince charming, and lives happily ever after.   <br /> <br />Reading erotica is a strange experience, as it makes you ask yourself questions about yourself that you otherwise wouldn't have.  We want to read it because we're curious, but we're also revolted before we even crack the cover.  We can't help but read it.  There are people in the world that participate in these things, no question, the real numbers of them are unknown.  Does it turn us on?  Well, I think it turns everyone on to some degree.  Maybe the most shocking realization came about when I realized after many years of my own sexual experiments that I'm as average as apple pie.  Who knew?	2005-09-18
US	51648684	R2FA6VR3RNK0WX	1560256982	195361500	Shock Value: A Tasteful Book About Bad Taste	Books	5	28	30	N	N	The Filthiest Person Alive	John Waters is fantastic.  His true talents are not in his films, but in his writing.  He can take the mundane and make it extraordinary, the creepy and strange and make it funny, and the ugliest of the ugly and make them things of beauty.  Though he's an old man now, and his movies have gone mainstream, this book is a look back at his hilarious youth and all the mischief making that made him and the Dreamland cast stars. <br /> <br />This book covers the making of all his films, the biographies and interviews with his famed cast members, as well as his inpirations (ex. Rus Meyer).  You enjoy their antics and feel as if you are right along side them in the making of their hilarious movies and tasteful adventures in bad taste.  You can't put it down and are actually laughing out loud as you read.  And he even writes about his family.  How punk rock! <br /> <br />One thing he taught me to do was to love my hometown.  People never seem to like their hometowns, whether they are in the most flashy of cities or the tiniest one horse town.  Life is what you make of it, and John put the hairdo capital of the world (Baltimore) on the map with his hijinx and adoration of all things weird and wonderful.  He takes his enemies and makes them into glowing monsters we can all throw rotten tomatos at in his absence.  The creepy weirdos aren't monsters, they're glorious, misunderstood creatures we are to embrace.  Look for the scariest, craziest places and have the most rip roaring time with the clientele.  I've taken his advice and now have the ability to talk to anyone, because there are loads of lonely lunatics out there just dying to be friends with you.	2005-09-16
US	51648684	R3Q8J5Z94H88WP	0833574256	227527339	Secrets of the Morning (Cutler Family)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Lesser grade of brain heroin	While I read the first book, Dawn, cover to cover, I only skimmed this one and was glad I did.  While it covers most of the topics one can expect in a sequel, Dawn should have used her head and avoided a disaster.    Dawn's scheming grandmother has decided to wash her hands of this aweful, dirty little secret she tried to hide by sending her away to an exclusive school for dramatic arts in New York.  As it turned out (sorry to reveil things from the first book if no one has read that), Dawn's mother, the twitering bird in a golden cage, had an affair with an entertainer and became pregnant.  Fearing the stigma of an illegitimate heir to the family fortune, like in some gothic novel (which this just happens to be), baby Dawn was given away to be raised by another family as theirs.  But, as some twist of fate, the illegitimate heir to the throne has resurfaced and now she wants her out of there again.  So, off Dawn goes to New York under the false pretense of artistic talent.    Here Dawn meets some handsome Broadway star (who isn't gay! Talk about fiction!) and, quite typically, becomes engrossed, allows herself to be taken advantage of, is abandoned and left carrying her own illegitimate child.  Apples don't fall far from the tree, as it seems.  It was a disapointment, the story wasn't half as juicy as the first in this series.  Of course, this is fiction, and in the real world we would hope that someone can have at least a 50/50 chance of pulling themselves up out of the gutter and not repeating the mistakes their parents made.  Had she done the smart thing and not let herself be taken advantage of, there wouldn't be a story.      It has enough dirt to make readers want to read the next in the series, but this reader had already outgrown it and decided not to continue.	2005-09-15
US	51648684	RNDIQ0T0T1GQY	0671670689	837339470	Dawn	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Brain heroin	Before there was trash TV, when Jerry Springer was just the mayor of Cincinnati, there were the VC Andrews books.  I seem to remember these books being introduced sometime during junior high school, but this was the first one I picked up and read cover to cover. <br /> <br />Following the same format as the previous series and the ones to follow, this is the story of a backwoods country gal (in this case named Dawn) struggling with her hillbilly family to be introduced by scholarship fate to a highbrow school and slice of society.  Feeling outcast and ashamed of her sharecropper roots, Dawn discovers by a bizarre twist of fate that she is in fact not related to the people she thought were her immediate family and is in fact the long lost daughter of a wealthy, old money family.   <br /> <br />But wait, there's more! <br /> <br />In yet another sickening twist, the most popular girl in school who had asserted herself as her arch nemesis is her sister.  And the most popular boy in school, Philip, who she had already had a sticky, awkward encounter in the backseat of his sports car with is actually her brother.  *Shudder* <br /> <br />But wait, there's STILL more! <br /> <br />Dawn is shuttled from her clapboard shack to her new family's spacious estate to meet her real mother (some kind of skittish, over medicated bird in a golden cage) and adjust to her new surroundings.  The whole time, the suave popular boy / brother Philip has not been able to put aside his lust for this tasty morsel he just happens to be related to and continues to try to get into her pants.  And Dawn herself, now free of the ties that bind, has her love for Jimmy, the boy she thought was her brother until recently, grow into full blown passion. <br /> <br />Oy Vay ... It's hard to put down a juicy, trashy story like this for even five minutes.  Something like this speaks to a sordid part of us.  Like all these books, it has just enough deconstruction of social classes, high school clique mentality, and primative instincts to appeal to everyone.  The topic of incest is something so hideous and horrifying, yet we can't stop reading about them because they are just so hideous and horrifying.  Perhaps Andrews was trying to tell us something about our society in this.  Traditionally we've always thought incest was something that happened among uneducated, backwoods people (like where Dawn came from); but, in recent years, we have learned that these things happen among everyone from the middle class on up and it happens much more often than we think it does (like where Dawn went to).  Some are true victims (such as when Philip gives into his wants and finally rapes Dawn), and some are just simply something else (Dawn and Jimmy).  It's creepy and twisted, but it happens. <br /> <br />Enjoy this book (and all other titles by the same author) for some trashy entertainment.  It's not a great literary work as it's aimed for the teen set, but gives us something to think about afterwards.	2005-09-15
US	51648684	R2H8BPCJC1JKE3	051708242X	271840992	Are You Hungry Tonight?: Elvis' Favorite Recipes	Books	3	9	14	N	Y	Old fashioned, deep fried goodness	Elvis loved to eat.  Who doesn't know that?  This was a good concept for a cook book, and the recipes are quite good.  It's comfort food but they made a point to include a chapter on vegetables subtitled with \\"Yes, the King ate vegetables\\".  There are many typically Southern foods (grits, biscuits and red eye gravy, fried chicken, etc.), but the main dishes are crowd pleasers.  <br /> <br />What prevented me from giving this 5 stars is the fact that these recipes are old fashioned.  Elvis lived in the days before time saving cooking devices (the microwave, for example) and a lot of prepared foods.  No doubt as the child of sharecroppers in Post Depression Era Mississippi they probably spent a lot of time cooking, canning and storing foods than the average person would today.  These recipes are more labor intensive than even the most experienced cook is used to. <br /> <br />It includes the famous peanut butter and banana sandwiches.  Deep fried peanut butter and banana sandwiches.  This sandwich is the singular staple of Elvis's diet that has taken on a life of its own.  They're good eating, for sure.  Lisa Marie said recently about this odd phenomena that will this will never die, she never once saw Elvis eat a peanut butter and banana sandwich (at least not in front of her). <br /> <br />To me, the crowning achievement of this book was the release of the Elvis and Priscilla wedding cake recipe, but it was also the most ridiculous.  This is a tremendous project, and they recommend that if you've never prepared something like this before to not only pick up utensils and ingredients at a wholesale bakery shop but to set aside at least 3 days to assemble it.  Why someone who would want to replicate this would do this in their home kitchen is beyond me.	2005-09-09
US	51648684	R3VVJSNUMOTARI	0743266641	95924953	Confessions of an Heiress: A Tongue-in-Chic Peek Behind the Pose	Books	4	2	6	N	N	This is a book?	When I heard Paris Hilton was writing a book, I thought \\"A book? Like she's going to start writing childrens books?\\"  Imagine my surprise when she put out a book all about her. <br /> <br />Lots of people don't like Paris Hilton, but I say let her do what she wants.  She's beautiful, she's rich, and she has a right to.  Good for her.  Paris has an obvious zest for life, and knows how to live it up.  Let her.   <br /> <br />This isn't a book book, in that you're not going to find out any deep, meaningful information aside from \\"Don't drink Diet Coke that's for fat people\\".  (I beg to differ, thank you very much!)  It's a picture book, all of her pretty outfits, her gorgeous body, her fabulous jewels and her beloved Tinkerbell.  That's what Paris Hilton is all about.  Let her!	2005-09-08
US	51648684	R192PVC9UW0WMF	0425091031	898953770	Elvis and Me: The True Story of the Love Between Priscilla Presley and the King of Rock N' Roll	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Graceland's Ivory Tower	It's hard to imagine a world without Elvis.  I was only 3 when he died, but I seem to vaguely remember it.  He was larger than life, a constant presence, and one of the biggest hyped celebrities to have ever lived.  It seemed there was no fascet of his life left unstudied, no stones unturned, and even the most private of moments was exposed (he did die on the toilet, after all).  Priscilla was the one we above all others wanted to hear from, the one and only woman he married and the mother of his only child.  What was Elvis really like?  Who better than she to tell us about him?  When her book was published it became an instant best seller, and we continue to study it to this day because we simply want to know.  It is an incredible and strange story, to be sure, how the daughter of a career officer in the air force living on a military base in Germany would not just end up meeting Elvis, but becoming his wife.  Bizarre does not even begin to describe the fantastic circumstances in which she would meet and marry the King of Rock and Roll.  One day she was at an officer's club and met another officer who was a mutual friend, and he asked if she would like to meet Elvis as he was stationed in Germany at the time and living in a house nearby the base.  Her parents allowed it, thinking that this would be a one time meeting and that would be that.  Much to everyone's surprise, Elvis liked her, called her, and said he wanted to see her again.  She was only 14, Elvis was 24 when they met.  What would a man that age, let alone an international celebrity, want with her?  It's sweet, really, to read this.  Priscilla loved him, no question about that.  There is an innocence about it, that she was a star struck child who fell for a man who was the closest thing to a god.  We can feel her pain and tears, how she missed him during her lonely years in Germany, her joy of getting to spend Christmas with him, and her sorrows of having to leave (the visits, and eventually the marriage).  These are the tears of a child, and remembering my own lost innocence, this is something that we will never get back.  That first love is almost like a sickness, all consuming and overwhelming.  And it wasn't easy on her parents by any means.  They were naturally wary of why a man, let alone and international celebrity like Elvis Presley, would want to be with their fourteen year old daughter when he could (and did) have any woman he wanted.  It almost ripped her family apart as they wanted what was best for her, and yet were powerless to do much of anything up against him.  Ultimately it was just too hard for them to keep fighting it.  And at age 15, Priscilla left Germany, moved into Graceland with Elvis and finished high school in Memphis, chaperoned by Elvis's family.  Her insights into Elvis, the man, however, are not tabloidly (if that's a word) but evoke as many questions as there are answers.  We found out that he was a very insecure man, and demanded of her and others complete and total devotion.  They had a strange relationship, as she was a sort of dress up doll that he wanted to mold and shape into his image of the perfect woman and she saw him as a combination father figure / lover.  He loved to eat, he loved to pop pills, and he loved to party.  We all knew that.  He was also a very insecure person, as much of their relationship and his relationships with others had to do with how his career was going.  But we also didn't know that in the six years she lived at Graceland with him before they were married that she slept in his bed and they never had sexual intercourse.  Priscilla wasn't happy with this, as any woman (or man) would be with a partner who won't do IT with them when they are right there in the throws of it.  Why?  She says that he had decided at some point that the woman he would eventually take to be his wife would remain a virgin until they married, be it religious or personal, and he was going to keep her that way until they eventually married.  And she went along with it because she wanted to make him happy and be the one that he eventually chose to be his wife.  And yet they did have a sex life without doing IT.  He dressed her up like a tart, making her into the perfect woman.  There were a few naughty secrets revealed without being raunchy about their not so chaste sex life before they were married.  (That was pretty funny about how she wore disguises to get more Polaroid film at the corner drug store as she was afraid the clerk knew what they were taking so many pictures of! HA!)  It wasn't a perversion, it was how she kept things as fresh as possible with him.  There is a dark side to this as well, as Elvis would descend further in his addictions, weight gain and mood swings.  Elvis was an insecure person, much of their relationship was depending on how his career was or wasn't going, and he took it out on her and others around him.  He had a temper, much of it was dependent on how his career was going and what prescriptions he was taking / abusing that week.  It has long been an established fact that Elvis married Priscilla because he had promised her father that someday he would and refused to break the promise.  Either he decided it one day or others finally pushed him to do it.  That's not something you want to build a marriage on.  He was not faithful to her either before or after they were married.  He had many affairs with women, in particular Ann-Margaret, which made Priscilla feel horrible.  Priscilla was expected to be more of an obedient child rather than only a submissive wife.  She was discouraged from having any interests other than him, as Elvis, I believe, was secretly fearful that she would not devote herself to him and him alone.  The biggest secret revealed was that Elvis never approached her for sex again after the birth of their daughter, Lisa, which was exactly nine months to the day they married.  With the addition of a child, Elvis's being gone at all times, his infidelity and ignoring of her needs, and Priscilla's ennui, she drifted from him (his worst fear coming true).  It's not surprising that the marriage failed.  In recent years, many have accused Priscilla of being not what she says she is/was.  Some have said that Priscilla was sold to Elvis as a sort of baby prostitute to one day take over the money machine that he was (and is after his death), that she was not in fact a virgin when she at last married Elvis, that she had had sex with at least one other man before she did with Elvis, everything was calculated to the nth degree, etc.  True?  I'm not sure.  The whole situation was so strange to begin with.  And Priscilla admitted in the book that she had an affair or two with other men after she married Elvis.  Is she bad?  No, she's not.  Considering the fact that Elvis never approached her for sex again after their daughter was born, that he was gone all the time, that he was also having affairs with other women, and that she was going through the mid twenties blossom that women have when they spread their wings and fly, she had to find herself.  And being that she was left all alone to languish at Graceland while Elvis was out having a good time, it's only natural.  We're all human, we all make mistakes, we all have done things that we wish we hadn't.  And maybe it's trivial, maybe it's sordid, but it happens.  Priscilla was no saint either.  She confesses that she was lonely before and after their marriage.  While she did not have any relationships before she and Elvis married, she did confess to at least one instance of infidelity on her part.  A few months after their daughter was born, she had an affair with a dance instructor she identifies as Mark, plus when she did leave Elvis she left him and took up with her karate instructor immediately afterward.  Why?  With all the determination of a young girl who wanted to be the one that he chose to be his wife, she bent to his wants and needs.  And when you are not getting what you want from your partner (in or outside of sex), you have to think of yourself, and she did.  We all make mistakes.  Marriage / relationships have to have equal give and take on both parts, and Elvis took more than he gave, clearly.  There is only so much you can be to another person, and when that person doesn't live up to their sides, it falls apart.  Why not 5 stars?  There is probably a lot more happened that she isn't telling us.  After Elvis died, Graceland Enterprises took a Disney approach and cleaned up his image to market.  He's been dead for 30 years, and she still goes by Priscilla Presley because the minute she remarries she will be Mrs. Smith not his one and only wife and mother of his only legitimate child.  But, I'm sure she did love him in a childlike way, and I'm sure a part of her always will.	2005-09-08
US	51648684	R3PTBSWV5DJ9T2	1557730474	799888075	Are You Lonesome Tonight	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Bogus!	This book turned a healthy profit when it was released many years ago, everyone wanted to hear this.  Many women since his death came forward claiming an affair, but this was just odd.  A twenty year affair that NO ONE knew about and a love child that not even Elvis knew about?!?!  Sorry, that just doesn't hold water.    Couple this woman's story with a few facts and it simply cannot be true:    1) Elvis & His Entourage - I doubt even for a minute (save for his last ones) that Elvis was ever alone.  He was constantly surrounded by people, whether they be his friends, family, staff, or miscellanious (aside from the fans), and NONE of them knew about this woman?    2) 20 years - This woman kept her mouth shut about this for 20 years.  Why?  It's hard for me to believe that she not only kept it to herself, but if she did share it with any close family members or friends THEY kept their mouths shut too?  Sorry.  Strike 2.    3) The secret from Elvis himself - Exactly why would she keep this secret from the alledged father of her love child?  Whether he was a godlike celebrity or a coal miner, I would tell him because he has a right to know.  If he were to turn his back on me and the child, that's his choice.  But that's just wrong.  Perhaps Miss Lucy knew of Elvis's aversion to having sex with a woman who had had a child.  I questionned some of my male friends about this, and they *explained* it to me, and I suppose I understand it.  But, come on people, don't you think after a while that he would've noticed something was, you know, *different*?!  I don't care how high he was.  Strike 3.    4) Her daughter Desiree - People have often said that it was impossible for Elvis and this woman to have created a child as she has brown eyes, Elvis had blue, and the daughter has green.  It has been argued that people with these genetic traits cannot produce an offspring that has the traits that Desiree does.  Is that true?  Well, maybe so.  But you never know, anything could happen.  The reason I, and we all question this is because she never produced a blood sample to prove Elvis is in fact Desiree's father.  Will the real Lisa Marie please stand up?    5) Graceland Enterprises - Graceland Enterprises never took legal action.  They never sued her because they didn't believe her.  Was there some sort of cash settlement behind closed doors that we never heard about?  Maybe, but I doubt it.  I think they would've been the first to demand a DNA test or cease the publishing of this book under court orders.  But it didn't happen.    Read the book if you like, it is a creative writing project to be appreciated under those conditions only.  But there isn't a shread of truth in this.	2005-09-08
US	51648684	RMWIEFWVBTZPD	014038572X	249148416	The Outsiders	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Staying Gold after all these years	Has it REALLY been almost 30 years since this book was writen?!  So hard to believe, yet it has staying power because of some timeless themes and teenage angst.      It was a fantasy world, no question.  Three orphaned brothers living together with a bunch of friends who seem to have absent or apathetic parents all clustered together to live their \\"tough guy\\" male bonding.  They seem to have no cares but to have a good time and posture at the local hangouts.  They discover that although they do not have all the material things or appear like the socs, they are all similar underneith.  And, like a lot of people in their youth, they aspire to leave their own city and go someplace else where they can start afresh and there will be no problems or having to answer to any social pretense.  Alas, they do this and it's a continuation of their jaded pasts only more lonely.  I think Ponyboy and Johnny experienced that when having to hide out in the abandoned church in the country.    It would be foolish, if not downright nieve, to assume that part of the appeal of this book was not fostered by the accompanying movie version.  Patrick Swayze, C Thomas Howell, Ralph Macchio, Emilio Estevez, Rob Lowe, Tom Cruise, Matt Dillon and all ushered in every pubescent girl's bedroom decor.  Be still our hormones.  We fawned over them only like girls going through the change can.  It's a nostalgic look back at our teenage years.	2005-09-07
US	51648684	R2FJT90BJSVAFC	0553263218	835646053	The Pigman	Books	3	3	5	N	N	We read this in sixth grade. I didn't get it then, but I might now	We read this book in the 6th grade, I didn't get it then.  This is the story about John and Lorraine, two high school friends who befriend a lonely old man who they nickname &#34;The Pigman&#34;.  They visit him and have their typical teenage angst with their family and friends (even if it is a little dated today).  In a rather bizarre and cruel game they and two other friends were playing making crank phone calls (how quaint our world was with landline phones and numbers you can look up in phone books - HA!), they dial a number for man named Angelo Pignati.  They are without much other than a curiosity as to how and why he would spend so much time chatting with Lorraine (a perfect stranger), John and Lorraine go to meet him.  They find him to be a lonely old man, but they feel a certain parental feeling of love for him and start visiting more often.  When the Pigman has a heart attack while they are playing on their new roller skates, he asks John and Lorraine to watch the house while he is in the hospital.  Then they throw a party, which gets out of control and turns into a typical teenage fest of rowdiness, and they house is ransacked.  The Pigman returns from the hospital to find his house trashed, then he dies and they feel guilty because they used him.  The one thing that sticks with me was Lorraine and her relationship with her mother.  Her mother seems bent on keeping Lorraine virginal, like when she tells her the other day she saw a gal making out with some guy in a car.  She seemed far from Lolita, and we as the reader knew that she wasn't sleeping around.  That stuck with me because my mom would give me one of those lectures years later - but I was a good kid (more or less) during the high school years.  She had nothing to worry about.  It was a couple of sullen kids who used someone for their own means.  I see the point, that people will use others (God knows I've met them), but it's not the deepest of thoughts.  Being an unsuspecting 12 year old at thetime, I didn't really understand much of it.  I saw it as a couple of kids doing things and behaving badly, but years later when thinking about it I realized they were trying to teach a lesson.  But, I had nothing to worry about, my parents raised me better than that.  Even at my most self centered, destructive moments did I ever use people for my own gains.  It gave me a better perspective of how bad people are or can be, and it let me recognize when people are trying to use me for things.	2005-09-07
US	51648684	R3QGKPXCIHDPPD	0312266944	412156332	Rebel Heart: An American Rock 'n' Roll Journey	Books	4	6	12	N	N	What would Liv say?	I didn't know who Bebe Buell was until Live Tyler became famous.  In case you're one of the 0.0067% of the population that doesn't know, Bebe had an affair with Steven Tyler from Aerosmith but had her believe that Todd Rungren was her father.  Only then did I begin to explore BeBe's biography, and what a tale it is.<br /><br />BeBe was from the \\"golden age\\" of rock music, and got to bed all the rock gods on the way there.  Her tone is conversational and upbeat, accentuates the positive in everyone, and doesn't apologize about her choices.  She ran away to escape her strict father's watchful eye, but her mother sympathized with her want to be free of it, got her a little in with the Ford Modeling Agency, and then did somethin somethin.  She, like a lot of gals in those days, was the arm candy rather than the star of the show.  Hey, we all want to bed rock stars at some point or another, and some of us succeed! *patting myself on the back* But she established herself in other ways as she matured.  She was already a model when she became famous, but she too wanted to sing and be the creative force which she did with the B Sides and the Gargoyles.  She was a single parent and exposed her struggles as one but was able to live on her own terms.  Her affair with Elvis Costello was her biggest heartbreak, and her depression after her marriage to Coyote failed speaks to all women who have ever had a broken heart.  Just because you're beautiful and adored by all doesn't mean you have it all.  And she pulled herself out of the gutter and emerged as a stronger woman.  Many have said that it's a long book that talks about nothing.  Well, it is a long story about not much, because that's what she did essentially.  We all want to do nothing at some point, have a good time, have a party that never ends, and indulge in some headonistic debautchery.  Women have all freed ourselves of the Little Miss Goody Two Shoes act we were taught as kids, this is the best of the best.<br /><br />But there was the story about Liv and discovering that Steven and not Todd was her father.  I didn't buy it the first time I heard it.  Do I now?  Well ... I'm still not sure.  When BeBe wrote about the time that Liv figured it out at an Aerosmith concert she put it in at least a bit better perspective.  Steven told her how proud he was of her then turned away with tears in his eyes.  I guess that would sound strange, as why would someone other than a parent say something like that to a twelve year old girl he had just met?  I'd never heard that detail of the story, so with that maybe it is true.  I wonder what Liv will write in her bio when her time comes.	2005-09-02
US	51648684	R2O2IN5LCV9HRV	0670913707	752399089	Kurt Cobain: The Journals	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Tarnished superhero	Picking up this book is an eerie feeling.  Kurt had been gone for 10 years by the time it was published and this was part of a never ending legal battle settlement between Krist, Dave and Courtney over who is entitled to what in his estate.  I loved Nirvana, I still do.  But things came out that I otherwise wouldn't have understood. <br /> <br />As it's published to look exactly like the scraps of notebook paper and stationary that they were written on, you feel as if you are literally reading something he left for you.  The first page is what makes it, where he left a note to a lover saying \\"Read this and figure me out when I'm gone\\".  It made me feel like I was reading some of my own journals, as you page through going \\"what was I thinking when I wrote this?!\\".  It's a little embarassing, the thought of someone reading my journal after I died. <br /> <br />You would have to be very intimately aquainted with many aspects of his life story to understand the events he writes about.  Because of that fact, a glossary is provided to name and date each event.  You see the future: trapsing through Aberdeen, a new drummer named Dave is coming, the trip to Rome which would be the last show Nirvana would ever play. <br /> <br />The true horror was something in the middle, as Kurt is spiraling out of control with his addictions and reveals a secret that they tried to keep.  He talks about being in rehab with Courtney and that they were not allowed to see or talk to each other and he was lonely there.  Six weeks later, their daughter, Frances, was born.  Courtney lied, she WAS on drugs the whole time!  Time will tell of the long term effects on Frances, as there is only so long she can be kept under lock and key because she's just about to hit the teen years.  But Kurt is just as much to blame as she for using drugs while pregnant.  How could he?  How could they both?   <br /> <br />Kurt was a great influence on me, that was a terrible fact to read.  Our heros are human, they're not all good.  They make mistakes, but I can't just shrug that one off with an \\"Oh well\\".  Still, he's a martyr.  He was the martyr for a brief, exciting time which just happened to be my teenage years.	2005-08-30
US	51648684	R119Q95A5VVUVR	0440428130	732421290	Freckle Juice	Books	4	2	4	N	N	The first of many attempts to self medicate	This was one of the very first books I remember reading as a child.  I found the whole situation to be so funny and yet so haunting at the same time.  Andrew, the dorky kid who just wanted to fit in, mooning over the kid in class with all the freckles and wishing he could have them.  He falls under the shrewish Sharon, who dupes him into believing her magic elixor will make him have those freckles that he so wanted to have.  Instead it made him sick, and he returns to school a day later with blue marker on his face in a vain attempt to show the world that he managed to grow those magic freckles he so wanted.  As a child, I had no idea what this was all about, but it's so obvious as an adult.  Andrew, the outsider who just wants to fit in and be cool and accepted like the other kids.  Sharon, the pusher with her bewtiching perfumes and veils, who is bent on control and lures the unsuspecting lambs to the slaughter in with her promises and her &#34;magic potions&#34; that will make you feel so good.  How ironic that the boy with those freckles that Andrew so lusted after actually doesn't like them and wished he could erase them.  That carried over into adulthood with avengence - the grass is always greener on the other side, don't fall for some unachievalbe body image, and just say no.  It's sweet, a way to tell people that they should like themselves just the way they are.  Unfortunately the greatest legacy of this book is Andrew's shrewish mother, but the message is &#34;Just Say No&#34;.	2005-08-25
US	51648684	R3RR3LW8EIEXP2	0671695304	406487710	Forever	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Still putting out after all these years	Oh where oh where to begin with this one?!  This was the first offical &#34;dirty book&#34; of junior high school!  I remember someone brought it in on the playground one day and we were all passing it around, reading all the graphic sex parts and laughing.  There just happened to be a kid in my class named Michael, and for some reason we were all tormenting him thinking he was doing the same acts as the fictional Michael.  Go figure.  Of course, this was just before puberty hit and that Michael (the real one) became my first really embarassing crush.  I can see him now: mullet feathered hair, London Fog jacket, Van Halen T shirt, Adias tennis shoes, and he even had a comb in his back pocket.  *Shudder!*  But reading the first page of this book like I just did now, of course, is another experience as an adult.  I had forgotten so many things about this book that I either didn't notice the first time or didn't care to think any further about.  That first comment about the fat girl with the genius IQ level who sleeps around (or as they say, &#34;puts out&#34;).  That made me sick, it's so true.  And I had forgotten all about things like that in this book.  What does this say about our culture?  This was probably a very provocative book when it was first written in the 70s, but today it seems like (forgive the pun) kid's stuff.  Times have changed since this book was written, but not by much.  Things have become more shockingly graphic and violent, to be sure, but the themes are the same.  This is a classic tale.  Boys and girls feeling a need to be socially accepted and experiment with all things forbidden is the root of all bad behavior.  For some it's dressing wild, drinking, using drugs, breaking the law, and promiscuity.  They want attention.  Often times, girls, in a frenzy for acceptance, allow themselves to be taken advantage of somehow.  For those who have never read this, this was one of if not the first book that ever dealt with teenage sexuality.  A girl named Katherine meets a guy named Michael at a New Year's Ever party during her senior year in high school and she feels a strong attraction to him.  Eventually, the two of them begin a sexual relationship.  Katherine has many misgivings about it, and she feels the double standard in action: That girls are supposed to remain innocent and virginal while it's okay for boys to be as promiscuous as possible.  Katherine has never had sex before while Michael has.  Soon Katherine discovers many things about the first sexual relationship that we all go through.  I am speaking now to the girls out there who have never had sex and those who are just about to when I say this: No one ever tells you anything about how to go about it the first time or down the road, not parents, teachers, other adults, etc. for obvious reasons, not even friends who have also done IT will tell you what to expect.  Adults will threaten you with fire and brimstone if you even think about it, and you have no idea why they are thinking this even if the most sexual contact you have ever had is a handshake.  This is a message to girls out there that no one will ever tell you directly : Life is complicated and there will be many ups and downs, twists and turns, and a lot of hurt and joy when it comes to love, sex and relationships with others.  And it is a roller coaster, not just for you and the person you are with, but for others around you, be they parents or friends or strangers on the street (oddly enough).  You're going to do IT whether anyone likes it or not, we always find a way.  This book is not just a graphic showing of what the act is like, but also what happens if you give yourself to the wrong man.  Because you will give yourself to the wrong man many times over before you find Mr. Right, and that first big realization that it's not like the fairy tales with a prince coming in riding on a horse and happily ever after is a pretty serious blow.  There are people out there who will meet and marry the first person they are in a serious relationship with and go on to have happy lives together.  However, I and a lot of others out there am not one of them.  We make a lot of mistakes, despite what others may or may not say to you to caution or detour you from doing IT for the first time, it's going to happen.  And you're going to feel isolated and alone and, as a woman, rather dirty when it happens to you for the first time no matter how or what the circumstances may be.  Let's face facts, people, no one waits for marriage anymore, and our kids are going to do IT no matter if we like it or not.  And the hell with the storybooks!  So with that being said, what DO we tell our kids or our young friends about sex?  If there is anything I can say to any of those kids (real and the fictional characters) it's this:  It's going to come into our lives no matter how much we threaten or demand or keep them from things related to it.  Please kids, put it off until after high school at least.  You're only young once, and once IT comes into your life you're not going to look at people the same way ever again.  And the older you get, the harder it is to meet good people to be friends with let alone have a romantic relationship with.  Things will change as you get older from the teens these fictional kids are, and maybe, just maybe, Mr. Right will come along, but don't mistake him for Mr. Right Now.  Because NO ONE can tell you the difference until you determine it yourself.  And don't watch Sex In The City reruns.  You are not old enough to be Samantha Jones until you are older and more jaded, because you will get that way.  There are some far darker shadows that have come over this book since then.  Where's the guilt?  Where's the shoulder to cry on or the friend to turn to?  You can't talk about these things with your mom, no matter how stiff or hippie like she may be!  They make a few comments here and there about the fear of getting pregnant, but of course this was longbefore AIDS and other STDs creeped up among us.  Times have changed, most certainly, but not all that much.	2005-08-25
US	51648684	R1VADPHCB49V2N	0440407079	693388872	Blubber	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Mean Girls	I remember this book so well, I can still see the original cover even though it's in a landfill someplace now.  The two girls at their desks snickering to themselves while Linda, the unsuspecting victim, is standing before the chalkboard pointing to the drawing of a whale that would dub her &#34;Blubber&#34;.  As a child, I laughed.  But a few years later I was crying, I still cry when I pick this book up.  Jill gets a note passed to her during Linda's presentation on whales and blubber.  The note reads &#34;Blubber would be a good name for her&#34;.  While she didn't intend for it to get passed around, another kid picks it up and soon it's all over the place and, sure enough, Linda gets the nickname Blubber.  Because she's fat.  And naturally, Jill joins in on the madness and it turns on her, just like it does or can in real life.  What does this teach us?  It's tells us about the affects of bullying, peer pressure, the dangers of pranks (Halloween), and what it looks like when you are a follower.  Of course, this was written in 1970 something.  In those days we did not necessarily have to worry about some student committing suicide, bringing a gun in and mowing down everyone in his path, or even having law suits about anything among the extremely uptight, but that's another story.  This taught me the Golden Rule: Do onto others as you would onto you.  Girls are caddy and mean, whether you're in grade school or as an adult in an office (populated mostly by women).  There will be jealous comments, backstabbing, greed and ugliness.  And you can go along with it like the followers in this book, live in fear of crossing the leader and decide to go along with what they do or say, or you can be the best person you can be and rise above.  You can lash out at others, or you can give of yourself the love that no one gave them.  Practice forgiveness, be good to others, and don't follow just because someone says so or because it's easy.  As this is a kid's book, it turns it around and shows you what it's like when Jill suddenly becomes the victim.  It's not fun.  Unfortunately we find out as well that those who are not followers and who choose the high road will be there all alone 90% of the time, as the others will choose to be a follower so as not to be alone or because they are afraid to do the right things.  Cowardice is, after all, far safer and provides strength in numbers.  Taking the high road is true bravery.  Besides, those who cause such terrible things will continue to cause terrible things and hurt others.  They will be the ones going through misery for most of their lives.  And don't worry, when you go to your high school reunions, they'll get divorced and fat and have delinquent kids just as bad as they were.	2005-08-24
US	51648684	R325EUUTKE9GLC	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	13	26	N	N	An adult nymphet speaks about being Lolita	I picked up this book for the same reason most people pick this up: curiosity and hidden perversion.  There is something about this story that you never get over once you finish it, it haunts you.  Speaking as a woman myself, I realize many things about my own childhood and my own sexuality, as I never saw myself as a sexual being until my mid 20s.  It gives you a creepy feeling, knowing that in those days I was out and about innocently walking in my school uniform that I might have inspired some \\"unnatural stirrings\\" among men I passed on the street (of any age).  There's an innocence to Lolita, something that we will never get back after a certain point.  I remember that, and I remember the feeling of empowerment knowing that I was cute and innocent, and abusing that sense of power from time to time. <br /> <br />Humbert is so complicated, so mysterious, and so perverted you can't help but like him.  He tells the tale of his first love and how her influence carried over to his adult life, which is why he likes young girls.  Even when he gets an apartment for its view so he can watch a playground full of little girls playing you can't help but like him.  Even when he marries Lolita's mother, does away with her, and has Lolita all to himself you can't help but like him.  Why?  Because he loves her. <br /> <br />And although this relationship is wrong, although this is a sickening thought, although we know from the beginning only tragedy will result, part of us is perverted enough to want this to be.  A part of me felt a strange feeling of comfort and security, when I was Lolita's age.  Yet at the same time I can be a contradiction like Lolita, a sort of innocent sex kitten.  A part of me longs for that still.	2005-08-24
US	51648684	RGYLUH57K4B6A	0440904196	798277940	Are You There God? It's Me, Margaret	Books	4	8	9	N	N	The Change	I went through the opposite spectrum of puberty that Margaret and the other main characters did here - everything happened too quicky for me!  I never had a training bra, I went to a full blown 36C in a few months and stayed there!  I never fretted over getting my period before or after the other girls, I was first in line!  As a result, I went through puberty before everyone else, and they all stayed creepy little kids while I was the blossoming nymphet (once I got past that fat stage).  Because of that I was ostricized.  This got to show me the other side, of what it was like to be a flat chested girl child rather than a Lolita which I never experienced.  I had conversations with myself like Margaret did with God, although I don't know if I ever got anywhere with those self talks.  I wish I had a group of friends like Margaret did though, as it was a awkward time, to say the least; but, as I was the early bloomer I don't think the other girls knew what to make of me and therefore avoided and pushed me aside.  BUT THE BOYS WERE CREEPY AND WEIRD!  And you know what's funny?  I run into them as adults and they're JUST AS CREEPY AND WEIRD AS THEY WERE THEN!  I played those games of Spin The Bottle, 7 Minutes in Heaven and the like, and I can just imagine some of them slobbering over a woman in their 30s today like they were back then.  *Shudder!*<br /><br />But all that aside, this was a nice story and to this day one of the perenial young adult books that girls read.  There are a lot of themes that come into play that a kid may or may not relate to - being uprooted from home to a new surrounding, making new friends, making a connection with new friends, having those debates about religious beliefs, etc.  You are, after all, turning into a young adult and while a young adult may not have the same ideals and situation as a slightly or much older young adult, you start to question many rites of passage and what you have been told in the past.  Some are physical (getting your ears pierced, reaching menstrual age, etc.) and others are emotional, if only it was so easy to make it all work to the best of your ability.  A book like this says it's not all chemistry but something else.your ears pierced, reaching menstrual age, etc.) and others are emotional, if only it was so easy to make it all work to the best of your ability.  A book like this says it's not all chemistry but something else.	2005-08-24
US	51648684	R2U7ZRRLL1NI9Z	0684848007	561409258	Courtney Love: The Real Story	Books	1	6	10	N	N	I used to love her ...	I used to love Courtney Love.  I thought she was a wonderful empowerment for girls when she first came into the spotlight 15 years ago, trying to tell girls don't aspire to sleep with a guy in a band but to be in a band.  Make your own music, make your own way because you don't have to ride someone's coattails to fame and fortune. <br /> <br />But she's not about that.  Courtney slept her way to the top and could care less about dignity, class and making her own way.  Poppy kissed her ass like so many did at first, but hopefully she's wiser now.  I think we all are.	2005-08-19
US	51648684	R25OV16EVAV0QQ	0446606219	179094883	The Rules(TM) II: More Rules to Live and Love By	Books	4	22	27	N	N	For the Long Distance Chapter	I give this book 4 stars for the long distance relationship chapter alone.  While this is reenforcing all the points in their first book, they are giving you more specialized situations which will appeal to a smaller audience.    Long distance, as I have seen, is becoming more and more common whether it's in another town 50 miles away or another time zone.  For every gal who's ever ended up in a long distance relationship, READ THIS BECAUSE IT'S TRUE.  Don't make the same mistakes I did.    Years ago I was in a long distance relationship and broke ever one of these Rules for LDR that they point out.  If he doesn't come to your town even once, FORGET HIM.  If he always has a reason or an excuse or conveniently \\"forgets\\" certain things, MOVE ON.  If he doesn't have time for this, HE HAS PLENTY OF TIME TO DO OTHER THINGS EXCEPT BE WITH YOU.  The man I'm talking about was a sniveling, codependent, whiny little coward afraid of his own shadow.  He broke it off because he was afraid to commit, and decided to become a priest instead.  Less than a year later he married another woman.  No really.  Don't get hurt like me.    He will come to you if he's interested.  He will come see you more often than you will go to see him.  He will call and leave messages on your voice mail telling you that he loves you and that he misses you.  He will shower you with love and affection and tokens because he's the lucky one and will do anything for you.  How do I know this?  Because I met another man who I am currantly in an LDR with, and I followed the Rules with him, and I am loved and cherished rather than having to mother a self centered, immature user.  This is how it should be, shouldn't it?  YOU BETTER BELEIVE IT SHOULD BE.	2005-08-19
US	51648684	R1MDISW0K4LYW1	0446518131	275856268	The Rules (TM): Time-Tested Secrets for Capturing the Heart of Mr. Right	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Does it work?  Depends, but for the most part yes.	It's hard to think of a book that came out nearly twenty years ago and generated such buzz about a subject as old as time itself : Love.  Many put this down saying that this was against everything that feminism, liberals, and everything else fought for.  Being that this was published twenty some years ago, and being that I am now knowing what I know now, and having put these (and my own) Rules to the test, I have this to say about this book : IT WORKS.  But, be warned, as it is not the all purpose end all be all of the world.<br /><br />Firstly, this book teaches you how to behave with others.  We have been talk showed to death telling us that we have to be open and honest and lay it all out on the table with others.  This is not true.  Having learned many hard lessons in life with others (in and outside of romantic relationships), you must not share a lot of things about yourself.  You have no idea what people will do and say, they can and will use things against you.  Even the most harmless of information can be twisted into something that it isn't, like what your favorite TV show or favorite food.  Some do it to get ahead in the business world, but most of them do it just because they are cruel by nature.  This goes for men as well as women.  Like the bullies on the playground, many like to chip away at others' self esteem because it makes them feel more important.  Men REALLY like to do this to women, even the so called \\"Nice Guys\\" out there.  So whatever you do, be cautious with others.  In general, be nice to others, but not too nice.  Don't share a lot of things about yourself until you feel a bit closer to others.  Only then can you let a few secrets out if you want to.<br /><br />Secondly, learn the fine art of conversation.  In order to make others happy while still maintaining your mystery, always ask others how they are.  Get them to talk about what they did last night or over the weekend, that way they will leave the situation satisfied.  They will think that they have engaged you in conversation while they have done what people like to do best, which is talk about themselves.  You will also make them seem interested in the things that they have to say, even if you really aren't.  An IMMEDIATE red flag is when someone gets angry or defensive with you when you reply (as the book says) \\"I'd rather not talk about that right now\\" or the like.  Do not have deep meaningful conversations about you or anyone else in the beginning, even during the infatuation stage.  You never know what people will take and use against you.  If you don't believe me and think I am being overly cautious, just wait until it happens to you.  In this situation I speak of, I was screamed at by two former women friends (both happily married at the time, I would like to point out, and now divorced) for my past relationships and another former boyfriend who didn't like the fact that I said such \\"weird things\\" to people.  When asked for an example, he sighted the fact that I made a comment to a man standing next to me at a wedding who was fiddling with his cell phone about how the cells are going to touch screens now.  This guy and I chatted about cell phones for all of two minutes, we split up, never to see or speak to each other again, and I was lashed out at for it.  I have been made fun of for being so cautious with people.  Go ahead, make fun of me.  If you don't believe me, wait until it happens to you.  I hope you never get a scar like I did.  With that being said, if and when a man (who we presume is interested in you) says something so outlandish - and they WILL say something so outlandish! - to you like they think you have failed in certain areas, that you lack this or that, or that you aren't being strait forward with them for whatever reason, this is not a person that you want to be with AT ALL.  Not as a friend, not as a lover.<br /><br />Thirdly, in the relationship department, if he does not call you after your first get together, then he is not interested.  This care be very hard to accept, but if the man does not call you then he is not interested.  MOVE ON.  You can call him, he may say yes to your invite, you might get together and have a good time, but if he does not make the move then he is not interested.  Some guys I have encountered have said that they like it when women pursue them, and that they think women should pay for their own meals / drinks when they go out, and some women go along with it.  WRONG ANSWER.  Real men will pay for a simple meal / drink.  Men who do not are selfish, not poor.<br /><br />Then, we get to the big question : Commitment.  Ever notice that most guys stick around for about a year and a half / two years then they leave?  And who makes a big scene about it?  Guys do.  I have learned to sit back and relax.  Because if two people are to marry, it has to be the MAN's choice to do so.  Men can be bullied by aggressive women into marriage, I've seen it happen.  I've also seen it end in divorce in a haze of rage and furry.  And, I've also encountered the cowardly man, the one who will break it off via email or text message thanks to recent advances in technology.  And I've also encountered those who are absolutely, completely CRAZY - the stalkers, the ones who are truly unstable, the ones who hate you so much that they won't leave you alone.  And they end up being the one who is embarrassed and regretting their behaviors, not women.<br /><br />A word of caution - The Rules is not all purpose, it will attract and help you keep not all types of men possible.  Men who are playboys by nature will not think twice about you, and don't think that the biggest playboy in town is going to all of a sudden change and you will be his one and only.  He was a playboy when you got there, he's a playboy today.  Outside of playboys, there are \\"bad boys\\" - a plethora of people who can be anywhere from total losers to stereotypical bad boys who are more fun than a barrel of monkeys and are complete tornadoes in the sack, but it gets old when they start calling for bail money.  \\"Nice guys\\"?  Well, the term is used when they don't fall into the bad boy or playboy categories, but that doesn't mean they are always good either.  They can be losers, they can be wimps, they can be a lot of things.  The bottom line is that you must determine and weed out a man who deserves you.  He may not fit into such cut and dried situations, but there will be a man who deserves you someplace.  And that is a rarity.  Mr. Right is out there, and if it's meant to be, then it will work out on its own.  This is not about playing games, this is about determining who deserves you and who does not.  Because the most important thing is you, not him.<br /><br />As for a breakdown of the actual Rules, there are several red flags that they are right on about.  If he does not buy you a gift for an occasion (birthday, Valentine's Day, etc.) then he's not that interested.  My last serious boyfriend did not get me anything for any of those instances, he said he was not into things like that.  Strange?  No, not strange, it's the fact that he does not care for you that much.  But also when you get said item, it could be something non traditional rather than the average romantic gift (jewelry, flowers, etc.).  Now he's got a new chippy and no doubt she's going through the same things I did with him.  But life goes on, doesn't it?<br /><br />I am a Rules Girl.  The Rules have helped me determine who all the Mr. Wrongs are for sure.  Unfortunately there are A LOT of Mr. Wrongs, I hope they learn a lesson or two after having known a Rules Girl.  I have been hurt a lot in the past.  Am I bitter?  No, I am a realist.  And as a realist, we separate fantasy from reality.  If a man is interested in me, he will call me and tell me that he is.  And I, and all Rules Girls, will respond accordingly.  I had one guy tell me that I was not like other women, he didn't understand why I was so mysterious.  The key to any good relationship is communication, and he did not communicate efficiently with me.  So the bottom line is communication, not game playing.  Remember that when you read this book.	2005-08-18
US	51648684	R5TP47QWA0BUO	0806523506	712210590	Ruby Ann's Holiday Cookbook	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	The Po' Man's Martha Stewart	This is a hilarious!  Not only does Ruby Ann tell us of the gossipy goings on of her trailer park, but makes it sweet and endearing rather than trashy and sordid.  It's a good book to read on an airplane or on a car trip, you can pick it up at any point and read something funny to pick you up. <br /> <br />Want to know what's really funny?  I actually have a few recipes that are similar to these.  Apparently anything involving dipping crackers or chips into something hot with meat and/or melted cheese is considered white trash cooking.  It's all in the marketing presentation, using Martha's hook.  Ha ha ha ... <br /> <br />The holidays she has menus for besides the obvious (Christmas, THanksgiving, etc.) tell you that anytime's a great excuse to throw a party.  Although I doubt anyone north of the Mason Dixon would see fit to throw a party for Reba McEntire.	2005-08-17
US	51648684	RTLBANFCT9FLG	0060989157	8442482	The Dirt: Confessions of the World's Most Notorious Rock Band	Books	5	1	5	N	Y	It doesn't get much better than this	I don't care for Motely Crue's music, never have.  I considered myself to be too intellectual and well breed for their low IQ/high RMP method to take them to the highest of highs and the lowest of lows.  But this is one absolute, insanely good time.  You will roar with laughter, turn away in disgust, gasp in horror, and shake your head.  How could these four have lived the lives they have?  Because they could.    Want to know little tidbits about other bands from that same era who looked and sounded similar?  Want to know how many women Vince Neil slept with before he put on all that weight?  Want to hear all about Mick Mars and his crippling bone disease, Nikki Sixx and his overdose, Tommy's marriages and tabloid terrors?  It's all here!  One doesn't have to guess with other rock biographies if what they are telling you is really true when they are telling their anecdotes, because no one in their right mind would make this up!  Probably because this was written by men, when most rock biographies are women telling tales about who and how many they slept with, leaving that double standard gap of \\"Gee whiz, is this true?\\".  They were the ones who invited debautchery in.     This is not a great literary work, and if you consider yourself smarter than them (which believe me, is not hard to achieve), don't let anyone catch you reading it.  Their goal was to write a page turner, entertain, and turn a profit.  So have fun with it right along with them.    Older and wiser?  Maybe.  Now that 20 years have passed and nostalgia has set in, they're enjoying a sort of second chance.  Wonder what their children will say or do to rebel against them?  Maybe they should become strait A students in the math club.  But hey, as far as rock and roll excess goes, it literally doesn't get much better than this.	2005-08-16
US	51648684	RZZSKHT5UUZRM	0449911411	982601585	And I Don't Want to Live This Life: A Mother's Story of Her Daughter's Murder	Books	3	24	34	N	N	Essentail punk rock reading material	Any self respecting punk rocker knows the Sid and Nancy story, has a copy of this book on their shelves, and has fawned over its details.  Everyone knows the tales of Nancy and how terrible she was to her peer group.  A dear friend of mine was there back in the day and can atest to her being the most miserable person he'd ever met in his entire life.  And I'm sure she was, he has nothing to gain by lying to me let alone anyone else he meets. <br /> <br />This book brings so many things to light about Nancy that we otherwise wouldn't have known.  I was unaware of her parents' struggle with her, that they knew from practically the day she was born that something was wrong with her.  Nancy's behavior indicated that she wanted attention, that's for sure, but she made a concious decission to destroy herself through drugs, sex, lashing out at others, etc.  It is disturbing to see that Nancy's parents tried everything short of locking her up only to find dead ends at every corner.  Who do we blame for that?  So many things ring true today about mental illness.  Got a problem?  Medicate them.  You're not having a bad day, you're depressed or you have ADD.  Rather than not enough treatment in those days, now it's too much!  Kids in school go to the nurse's office for the Riddalin bell!  I see why they told her to leave the house, she was abusing them as much as she was herself. <br /> <br />How terrible for Nancy's mom to know that all her efforts were wasted, then to have their family drama splashed all over the tabloids.  It's not enough her daughter wanted to be one of the most notorious Bad Girls in history, she had to throw her family into the mix and they were there to take the blame for her bad behavior.  Speaking as a Bad Girl myself, I realized I could be a Bad Girl on my own time rather than living vicariously though the behavior of others and hurting myself and others.  But, I'm not damaged like Nancy was.  And I regret the grief that I put my mom through during those teen angst riden years now.  If Nancy were alive today I wonder if she would regret her behavior and tell her mom she was sorry.	2005-08-16
US	51648684	RQQMSY3JA77ZJ	0815410018	77001703	Backstage Passes: Life on the Wild Side with David Bowie	Books	2	7	12	N	N	Bitter celebrities make for best sellers and coffee talk	I picked up this book for the same reason everyone else did: I wanted the inside dirt.  I give it two stars for these 2 reasons only: the first (and more important) is because it was a fine writing project, the second was for celebrity dirt, which is just a piece of fluff.  There is an expression out there called &#34;Sex, drugs, and rock n'roll&#34;, and people always want to know those things about you whether you're the CEO of a corporation, a ditch digger, or the President of the United States.  IN THAT ORDER, I might add.  And we got all that and more with the ex Mrs. Bowie.  In the world of celebrities, we as outsiders can only look inside through the tabloids and such tell all books, and Angela was one who wanted to write one.  Her bisexual escapades have us shuddering rather than feeling turned on.  She was/is clearly jealous of the other women (and men) that David got to bed rather than the ones she did, because in an open relationship (be they between famous people or ordinary folk), one party always gets jealous of the other.  They all say the same thing in the end &#34;I'm his wife and you're not&#34;.  And yes, she was his wife, but he favored others over her.  The antics among the rock and roll elite are kind of cringe worthy instead of hot.  Yes, we heard that she walked in on David and Mick Jagger in bed together.  I think that was her biggest claim to fame was to reveal this fact.  Is she telling the truth?  Probably, but ... Does it change anything?  Her marriage to David was on unstable ground from the beginning, she claims that David only married her to get her citizenship status in the UK.  That, I don't believe.  I think she loved him, that's an excuse people say when their marriage goes south.  And go south it did as they both got swept up in drugs, delusion and ultimately self hate.  Angela is a bitter woman despite all the free spirited ideals and lifestyle choices she spouts, and there is more than a hint of jealousy that David got to be famous and more beloved than she.  It's a creative writing project full of name dropping and naughty whispers, and maybe what really happened wasn't all that exciting, but there's just enough to leave us thinking it could've been.  Some people have had very successful careers being hangers-on and keeping up hype about themselves, and Angie was one of them.  She wrote and sold a book to make people talk at their cocktail parties.  She's just a little irked that she's not being invited to the A list parties these days, but guess what?  You hang around the places you do and the people you do because they make you feel cool, but you're not all that cool.  The biggest tragedy is that she doesn't have a relationship with her son anymore and never will again.  Their son, Duncan Jones, stopped speaking to her once she and David divorced, and he has not had a relationship with her for over thirty years now.  He's come into his own as a filmmaker, and he clearly does not wish to have contact with her today.  That left her perhaps the most bitter of them all.  And quite honestly, I think he's better off without her.  If you're looking for insights into David's music (what influenced him to make music, write, produce, etc.), you won't find it here.  Buy his albums, not this book.  I love David, I love David's music in all evolutionary stages through the years, but there's only so many times you can hear a story about his being caught in bed with so-and-so before it gets old.  I love him because of his art, not because of who he was or wasn't doing the nasty with.  Should any of my former lovers write a book about me, people will talk, but that's all it is.  Talk.  Hope Angie turned a healthy profit, because this is what she left for posterity.  David, however, gave us so much more.	2005-07-27
