US	51647838	R190VBFWUGUTK5	0312317573	846860781	Dear Pussycat: Mash Notes and Missives from the Desk of Cosmopolitan's Legendary Editor	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	For real	Being the proud recipient of several letters from Helen Gurley Brown myself, I can testify this is how she really writes letters to everyone, not just the rich and famous.  I'm everyone, not rich, not famous.  HGB's defining quality is her sheer enjoyment of life, of people, of being part of the daily drama/comedy/tragedy.  She's also shiningly intelligent, highly creative and nobody's fool.   I found the review comment about her sense of self-importance interesting because, in the letters she's sent to me, the sense is just the opposite.  She's just one person responding to another in the most friendly, generous and genuine way.  Few celebrities of her stature write anyone about anything; she not only writes but most personably and personally.  I find it interesting that as she grows older she looks better, not worse.  I think the secret there is that joy of life oozing to the surface.  It can't be bought or faked.  She's got it.	2004-07-26
US	51647838	R2OTBMSPRVRVUO	0965232859	416289247	The Original Marvelettes: Motown's Mystery Girl Group	Books	5	11	15	N	Y	Marvelous	Marc Taylor has done a dandy job on a book most of us never dreamt would ever exist.  Strange I know, but after all these years of wondering why Juanita Cowart had a Spanish first name we find her first name was not Juanita but Wyanetta, a name of African-American heritage.  Taylor benefits immeasurably from the help of Katherine Schaffner (who sometimes autographed as Catherine as a C was faster to write than a K), the still beautiful, ever articulate and shiningly intelligent Marvelette.  He is quite ginger about some of the more sordid details without skipping over them entirely (though I was surprised he drove around a central point regarding the Marvelettes' name....it's well-known Motown didn't let a trademark expire but that Berry Gordy bet and lost the name in a high-stakes card game, something after the moment he likely felt terrible about as it resulted in serious consequences for the lives of the ladies who formed the original group. )The photos in this book are amazing, especially those with Florence Ballard as a Marvelette.     Regarding unreleased Marvelettes, dozens of songs remain in the vaults among them some true gems: I'm So Glad That Summer's Come, The Train That's Bringing My Baby Back, Caught You Puttin' the Game on Love (released in England), The Boy from Crosstown (released in England), and dozens others.  Motown also needs to put on C.D. the mono version of &quot;Keep Off, No Trespassing,&quot; which is considerably different from the stereo version available on C.D.   There was no reason for the Marvelettes to go in decline at the end of the '60s beyond Berry Gordy's obsession with Diana Ross to the exclusion of concern with any other artists on the label.  His ultimate reward was to  lose virtually all his top acts as they gave up and have the label crumble and have her desert for RCA after he sunk millions and millions into her career.  That's how grateful she was.  And unwise--her career was never the same after she left Gordy and Motown.  Oh, but that's another book.  Congratulations Marc Taylor on a great job of reporting, great clearheaded and conicise writing and great class.	2004-02-22
US	51647838	R2VOV96ZTTHBUG	0738520217	99273773	Brentwood, Missouri (Images of America)	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	PART II--Actually...	two streetcar lines crossed through Brentwood on their way to Kirkwood.  The single-track line immediately ran into trouble with a head-on crash.  The double-track line subsequently bought the single-track line and converted it into a three-mile shuttle bridging two other lines.  The book has the two lines mixed up or is simply unaware there were two lines.  There is very little here about how Brentwood originally was not even thought of as a part of St. Louis but a town outside St. Louis and how the people who lived there were self-sufficient.  Then how over the decades and after the trolleys came how the area slowly became a surburb.  Or how yesterday's country roads became today's broad four-laners.<BR>There's very little about Brentwood being one of the first places middle class people in the '30s and '40s could buy very pretty little homes which still exist today, still look beautiful and still are amazing people new to the area with their low prices.  And there's very little here about the &quot;feel&quot; of Brentwood, an intimate community if ever there was one.  Still, what is in the book is intriguing and treasurable.  Just incomplete.	2003-07-23
US	51647838	R3EHKKHN8BNPBN	0738520217	99273773	Brentwood, Missouri (Images of America)	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	So much is missing	Brentwood is a fascinating little suburb of St. Louis, its biggest claim to fame being an early streetcar line advertised as an &quot;Air Line,&quot; meaning it ran a straight course (which it didn't), which ran through a mostly rural area and was built with one track.  That turned out to be a mistake as early in its history a horrendous head-on crash between two streetcars put the original owner out of business.  The line was never doubletracked and continued to run right up through the mid-1950s, with one car shuttling back and forth over the three mile route with only a few riders.  Just short of its terminal in Brentwood the line eventually hooked up with a double-tracked line which continued on the suburb of Kirkwood.  There are any number of photographs available of this strange little streetcar line, of its junctions with other lines at either end, of its dangerous crossing with the Missouri Pacific Railroad at just the point the streetcar route left woods and moved on to a main highway, of the community growing up around the streetcar--but none of it is here!  There are no maps, no photo of the massive power house which served the streetcar line and still stands as Brentwood Plastics (whose address is &quot;Suburban Tracks&quot; even though the tracks have been gone 50 years).  There are photos and photos of homes but, strangely, almost none of the many very odd houses in the community, one built like a flat waffle iron.  What is here is fascinating, colorful, informative and fun and the book is commendably well-written, but it's strange the trolley line barely gets a mention and only one photo, and that one not of the Brentwood trolley but one like it.  Other things are missing, too, such as the 1959 tornado which first touched down in Brentwood and the many haunted houses in Brentwood.   I do love this book but do hope there will be a Volume 2 one day.	2003-07-15
US	51647838	RHK6R9TLWTNOY	0786880945	92226295	Dancing in the Street: Confessions of a Motown Diva	Books	5	13	18	N	N	Interesting start to finish	Martha Reeves is about as far from Diana Ross as can be.  She's always been in love with the music while Ross so often has seemed consumed with being endlessly reassured she is the best, she is the greatest star who ever lived, she is a living legend but, on the other hand, has never been bright enough to see that if you have to tell people to call you \\"Miss Ross\\" so you'll get the respect you deserve all you're getting back is people going through the motions (which, in the end, is indeed the respect  you deserve).  All this has never been part of Reeves' life.  She's enjoyed her success, she's enjoyed the fame but she's never needed to constantly gobble up adoration.  This has freed her to be down to earth, realistic and truly soulful as both a performer and a person.  If you've ever met Martha you know she is intelligent, articulate, wise and humorous and she long, long ago left behind all about Motown that might have made her an angry old woman.  In fact, there is nothing old about her--Martha looks great, sounds great and is still full of enthusiasm for her work.  In England and Europe she is big big star, greatly adored.  Wherever she works she is a consummate professional--she always looks terrific and gives a great show.  This book is interesting start to finish--you get the Motown story for real.  And, true to her own life, Martha is dignified beginning to end.  No cheap shots or dirty gossip here.  Martha can be VERY proud of this very successful book.	2003-02-18
US	51647838	R2BE42Q354AO0J	0786880945	92226295	Dancing in the Street: Confessions of a Motown Diva	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Interesting start to finish	Martha Reeves is about as far from Diana Ross as can be.  She's always been in love with the music while Ross so often has seemed consumed with being endlessly reassured she is the best, she is the greatest star who ever lived, she is a living legend but, on the other hand, has never been bright enough to see that if you have to tell people to call you \\"Miss Ross\\" so you'll get the respect you deserve all you're getting back is people going through the motions (which, in the end, is indeed the respect  you deserve).  All this has never been part of Reeves' life.  She's enjoyed her success, she's enjoyed the fame but she's never needed to constantly gobble up adoration.  This has freed her to be down to earth, realistic and truly soulful as both a performer and a person.  If you've ever met Martha you know she is intelligent, articulate, wise and humorous and she long, long ago left behind all about Motown that might have made her an angry old woman.  In fact, there is nothing old about her--Martha looks great, sounds great and is still full of enthusiasm for her work.  In England and Europe she is big big star, greatly adored.  Wherever she works she is a consummate professional--she always looks terrific and gives a great show.  This book is interesting start to finish--you get the Motown story for real.  And, true to her own life, Martha is dignified beginning to end.  No cheap shots or dirty gossip here.  Martha can be VERY proud of this very successful book.	2003-02-18
US	51647838	RCDX6MSEJDR9T	1886094683	379496859	Best Face Forward	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Interesting start to finish	This is not at all the vanity autobiography you might expect.  It's a well-written, complete and detailed first-person saga of a girl who came from next to nothing to build a major cosmetics empire, become a television celebrity and make international civic and social contributions of great importance.   The book is just like having Marilyn Miglin to yourself for a cozy afternoon; it's just like she's talking to you.  Her life is engaging from the start--she's been a dancer, one of Chicago's leading high fashion models, a cosmetics empress and also a daughter, wife and mother-- and she tells about it all with grace and warmth.  The most astounding part of the book is her recounting the loss of her handsome and charismatic husband Lee, one of Chicago's business and civic stars.  She tells exactly what came before, what happened, what was going on outside and inside of her, how she survived and went on.   There's no doubt this is a valiant woman whose price is far above rubies!  The key to this book is a photo of Marilyn at the age of 4, already a wide-eyed European-featured beauty, clear-eyed, shining from inside and dressed like a fairy princess.   This clearly is someone who already had her lights on bright as a kid.  The photos are all interesting, if only because Miglin is such a unique  beauty.  She isn't a standard issue American blonde but has very strong ethnic features which somehow come together into a face which is ever fascinating, ever mystifying.  Whatever IT is, she has it, plus terrific business talent, great people skills and a deep, deep sense of social service and justice.  If you don't believe it, she and Lee sent their kids to the Chicago Public Schools when they could have afforded the best private academies.  They wanted their children to know a spectrum of people.  Miglin continues to serve their elementary school in many ways.  Chicagoans adore Marilyn Miglin for her elegance, her always being herself, her warmth, her generosity and above allher courage.  No, you won't find gossip here, you won't find insults of other people, no won't find private family matters which should remain private family matters (her daughter and son will never be embarrassed by this book).  You will find a classy and rewarding story  by one singular sensation.	2003-01-22
US	51647838	REVW0MXSJPKXA	0375500626	918586268	Motown: Music, Money, Sex, and Power	Books	3	54	62	N	Y	Well-written but...	This book is the most intelligent and best-written opus on Motown currently available but why couldn't the distinguished and experienced Gerald Posner get his FACTS right? I can't believe prominent authors working with prominent publishers and I assume capable editors are stumbling all over the place these days. \\"Georgeanna Dobbins Tillman\\" as she's referred to is TWO people, Mr. Posner. Georgeanna Dobbins was one of the five original Marvelettes and cowrote \\"Please, Mr. Postman.\\" She was replaced by Wanda Young before the group began recording for Motown. Georgeanna Tillman was a different person, also one of the original five.<BR>Also: Gladys Horton was not replaced as lead singer in the Marvelettes by Anne Bogan. Well before Horton left Wanda Young has assumed the lead on records, though in person both ladies alternately led. Bogan came into the group as a background singer, only recording leads on two album tracks, one of which was pulled for a single. The final Marvelettes album was a Young solo project; Young never refused to move to L.A. nor did the Marvelettes ever make a decision to break up. They just found themselves in Detroit with no record company. Much worse: Martha Reeves not even being told the company had moved.Also: Lynda Laurence and Scherrie Payne were not in the Supremes the same time; Laurence sang with the Jean Terrell-led group, Payne replaced Terrell.Also: Diana Ross, Mary Wilson and Cindy Birdsong did not decide to do the \\"Return to Love\\" tour. Diana Ross got the original offer, then called Mary Wilson, who wasn't in the mood to get low pay, no profits from merchandise sales and work as an employee of Miss Ross, with all the attendant disrespect implied (when Ross complained that all Wilson would have had to do is \\"show up\\" that really inflamed Wilson. \\"Why, after devoting my life to keeping this group and its legacy alive would I just want to 'show up,'\\" she asked). Wilson did at the very last minute agree to join the tour but was told itwas too late. Birdsong was not involved at all, though she didn't give up hope for such a tour. Wilson also was much insulted by the souvenir booklet for the tour, which almost no one saw, which mentions her exactly once following Birdsong's name as continuing as a Supreme after Ross left the group, just one more example of Ross's habit of rewriting history (she does not in any way acknowledge that the group started as three girls who became equally beloved by the public, not a lead singer with two backup voices in the shadows).And there's much else wrong and much missing...particularly the saga of the post-Ross Supremes, who labored working for a record company which was making darned sure the group didn't in any way overshadow Ross or equal its success with her as a member.  Many acts central to the story, such as the Lewis Sisters, are missing; the saga of the one-man graphic arts department which had to create album packages of what were almost always just randomly-gathered tracks; and much else is gone.  The definitive work on Motown and Ross are the books written by Randy Taraborrelli--he gets it all, gets it right and exudes a tangible love for and fascination with the company, the music and people.  This new book is beautifully written and elegantly presented but it's SO frustrating to run into the errors which renders this a classy book but classy in a dumbed-down world.	2003-01-08
US	51647838	R3EG0AAXFX4DCM	0684856344	702952694	A World Turned Over : A Killer Tornado and the Lives It Changed Forever	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Eloquent and touching	The least discussed facet of grieving in our culture--that you don't get over it, that it doesn't go away, that you carry it to your grave, that those we have lost actually are still with us, is illuminated in this book with shining humanity, truth-drenched prose and rich description.  Lorian Hemingway has dug way way way below the surface to pull out deep truths about people, tragedy, loss, renewal and survival and managed to avoid the triumphant ending other authors seem never to have been able to resist.  A gripping read which will haunt you long after you've finished it.	2002-11-19
US	51647838	R2AAX39FTF923Q	0684856344	702952694	A World Turned Over : A Killer Tornado and the Lives It Changed Forever	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Eloquent and touching	The least discussed facet of grieving in our culture--that you don't get over it, that it doesn't go away, that you carry it to your grave, that those we have lost actually are still with us, is illuminated in this book with shining humanity, truth-drenched prose and rich description.  Lorian Hemingway has dug way way way below the surface to pull out deep truths about people, tragedy, loss, renewal and survival and managed to avoid the triumphant ending other authors seem never to have been able to resist.  A gripping read which will haunt you long after you've finished it.	2002-11-19
US	51647838	R1WYVVVF3MJNZM	0684856344	702952694	A World Turned Over : A Killer Tornado and the Lives It Changed Forever	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Eloquent and touching	The least discussed facet of grieving in our culture--that you don't get over it, that it doesn't go away, that you carry it to your grave, that those we have lost actually are still with us, is illuminated in this book with shining humanity, truth-drenched prose and rich description.  Lorian Hemingway has dug way way way below the surface to pull out deep truths about people, tragedy, loss, renewal and survival and managed to avoid the triumphant ending other authors seem never to have been able to resist.  A gripping read which will haunt you long after you've finished it.	2002-11-19
US	51647838	R3LG1Z72W5CCAX	0964727935	290360501	Streets and Streetcars of St. Louis: A Sentimental Journey	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	God bless Andrew Young	This is the book I thought would never exist.  As good as Young's previous two volumes on St. Louis streetcars were, this one soars into a totally different category.  Here are photos most of us didn't even dream existed of all the significant streetcar lines which went into the suburbs of St. Louis, including rare shots of the St. Charles/Woodson Road line which ran along the north side of St. Charles Rock Road in a really remarkable and ambitious trolley construct; of the Creve Coeur Line; of the City Limits line, including the loop at Ferguson and the junction with the Berkeley line (which in summer was surrounded by deep woods); the Clayton dinkey and the Brentwood dinkey (what an odd little line that was) and so much more.  My father was a Public Service motorman and in the 1940s as I was growing up on his one day off we would walk down Kennerly Avenue from Hamilton to an impressive set of double concrete stairs and walk down, down to the right-of-way at the Suburban Gardens loop to catch a City Limits car out to Ferguson or, sometime, the other way to Maplewood.  We also rode the Kirkwood line and many others.  When the streetcars went so did the weekend trips--the buses were totally dull as they stuck to the streets while the trolleys whizzed into the woods seemingly far from any street (if you look very, very carefully you can still trace the City Limits line; part of the Creve Coeur right-of-way exists untouched north of Dorsett Road west of Lindbergh; and the Brentwood-Kirkwood power house is still standing in Brentwood just east of Brentwood Boulevard where the Kirkwood line came in the street from its private right-of-way).  My memories of those trips and those times has never dimmed.  To have it all in photographs is so wonderful.  This book is beautifully organized and designed and Young is the most economical and balanced of writers.  This book will make a wonderful Christmas gift for anyone who grew up in, lives in and rode the cars in St. Louis.  Bythe way, every house my parents ever bought was either on a streetcar line or turned out to be on one (the biggest shock was finding our home on Ferguson Avenue in Pagedale was on a street that had a line no one remembered had existed). Their first townhouse in Hazelwood turned out to be adjacent to the old Florissant right-of-way.  When they bought a townhouse in Maryland Heights I set about sleuthing and sure enough, they were adjacent to the Creve Coeur right-of-way.  The house I live in here in the suburbs of Chicago and the one I lived in previous:  Both on abandoned electric railway routes.  There's somethin' in the stars here, folks.	2002-10-24
US	51647838	R2RTUDXRCXWXK3	1892523205	917903509	Haunted St. Louis: History & Hauntings Along the Mississippi	Books	3	19	22	N	Y	Enough already	Only a fraction of this book is about St. Louis hauntings.  Everything but the kitchen sink is pulled in--including St. Louis caves--and everything, but everything, in this book has been published elsewhere and in many cases in more detail.  I keep buying Troy Taylor's books because they always sound so interesting.  Then I get them and find they only deal partially with the promised subject as they wander through all sorts of other territory.  This man's standards for facts versus fancy are nearly nonexistent, too, and he could use a strong editor to get his copy tight and focused.  Not to bash him--he does select wonderful topics and is a great conversationalist in print.  And there is a lot interesting to find in his books.  He needs to ask more of himself and give us loyal readers better quality.  I'll give him this--he's got my number and I'll bet you anything I'll also buy whatever his next book is. And be disappointed again.	2002-08-10
US	51647838	R2MGKI8HCJ4IGD	0786400536	919310671	Kate Smith: A Biography, With a Discography, Filmography and List of Stage Appearances	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Songbird Not Just of the South	It's amazing how many years after her passing Kate Smith remains an American icon, with her voice still daily heard on radio, her recordings still available in the stores.  This wonderful book, which deserves major-league publishing, tells the whole story of this strong, determined and extremely bright woman.  Besides being a totally natural and exemplary singer she was an executive, a producer and a sports team owner.  She also was a prominent national commentator.  Kate sang elegantly and beautifully but she was never a sentimental type who cooed sweet nothings.  She was incredibly well-informed, distinctly verbal and spoke her mind.  No wonder America loved her.  She stood for common sense, independence and strong ethics and morality.  She lived life to the fullest.  Her weight, always an issue with the critics but never an issue with her, never kept her from doing anything, including dressing gorgeously (especially in the later years).  When rock and roll came in she didn't run but joined in and forged a whole new career on T.V. shows like Cher's (where she did a Beatles medley with Cher and Tina Turner)  and Tony Orlando's.  Her later concerts gathered her numerous hits into a medley and otherwise addressed new music--the Beatles, Michel LeGrande and so on.  Kate was kind to her fans beyond what most artists are willing to do--friendly and accessible but, true to form, clearheaded.  She didn't need adulation; she knew just who she was.  This is a splendid book, well worth the price, and oh how it recreates an inimitable era in American entertainment right on the mark!	2002-03-26
US	51647838	R1BIHGGTFS4SFA	1581410026	46158594	Twisters in the Heartland	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Sucked down by errors	Tim Mosier's first-hand accounts of tornado experiences are terrific but this book is swirling with spelling errors, grammatical errors, typographical errors and factual errors.  Who editing this thing?  Anyone?  What a pity as this is not so much a book as a manuscript for a book before an editor and proofreader did their work.  This is not to imply criticism of the author.  He's done a great job and the book is riveting start to finish.  But how could any publisher publish a book this messy?	2001-12-27
US	51647838	RT4F6OK21I2L	0826212670	715304259	The St. Louis Veiled Prophet Celebration: Power on Parade, 1877-1995	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	Wonderful history	Finally someone has taken the time and trouble to set down the history of the Veiled Prophet organization and its projecs.  Tom Spencer has done a splendid job.  His book is eminently readable, packed with facts and details, and bright as a penny.  It's also a sociological tract, scholarly but not scholastic.  The one disappointment is the almost total neglect of the Veiled Prophet Ball and its Queens.  I expected at least a list of the V.P. Queens and more photos of the coronations, especially the extravaganzas of the 1930s which have to be seen to be believed (think Busby Berkeley and the sets from &quot;The Wizard of Oz&quot;) and from which abundant photos survive.  What about the most famous Queen of all, Anne Desloges?  And what about the whole Queen culture--all these girls year after year after year plain as a pancake with plain hair styles (if you could call them styles), basically the same gown as was being worn 50 years ago, no distinguishing talents or features (with some welcome exceptions) who after their year in the spotlight are never heard from or seen again.  At least in the days the coronation and ball were telecast we had the fun of the Post-Dispatch with a straight face describing a Queen who was downright homely as &quot;a willowy blonde.&quot;  I was disappointed, too, that the book didn't tackle the subject of exactly how a Queen is chosen.  It has changed over the years but it's never been that big of a secret; almost any girl in the court will willingly blab it.  There needs to be a book on Veiled Prophet coronations and Queens, darn it.	2001-12-27
US	51647838	RI5CVFT484OMG	0965577406	123127945	Caught In The Path, A Tornado's Fury, A Community's Rebirth	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A roaring success!	I came across this book on a visit to St. Louis and grabbed it.  It may just be the best book ever written about a tornado--it's riveting start to finish and the spotlight is on people and their lives.  It's a great movie in print with a terrific plot, memorable characters and a lot of heroism mixed in.	2001-12-27
US	51647838	R64UCVMKFMZH0	0826212670	715304259	The St. Louis Veiled Prophet Celebration: Power on Parade, 1877-1995	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Wonderful history	Finally someone has taken the time and trouble to set down the history of the Veiled Prophet organization and its projecs.  Tom Spencer has done a splendid job.  His book is eminently readable, packed with facts and details, and bright as a penny.  It's also a sociological tract, scholarly but not scholastic.  The one disappointment is the almost total neglect of the Veiled Prophet Ball and its Queens.  I expected at least a list of the V.P. Queens and more photos of the coronations, especially the extravaganzas of the 1930s which have to be seen to be believed (think Busby Berkeley and the sets from &quot;The Wizard of Oz&quot;) and from which abundant photos survive.  What about the most famous Queen of all, Anne Desloges?  And what about the whole Queen culture--all these girls year after year after year plain as a pancake with plain hair styles (if you could call them styles), basically the same gown as was being worn 50 years ago, no distinguishing talents or features (with some welcome exceptions) who after their year in the spotlight are never heard from or seen again.  At least in the days the coronation and ball were telecast we had the fun of the Post-Dispatch with a straight face describing a Queen who was downright homely as &quot;a willowy blonde.&quot;  I was disappointed, too, that the book didn't tackle the subject of exactly how a Queen is chosen.  It has changed over the years but it's never been that big of a secret; almost any girl in the court will willingly blab it.  There needs to be a book on Veiled Prophet coronations and Queens, darn it.	2001-12-27
US	51647838	R15OZZ8047Z4P	0873418166	290518791	Girl Groups: Fabulous Females That Rocked the World	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A terrific achievement	There have been a lot of books and videos about girl groups but all them involved large, really large, gaps of information, missing names, erroneous information and so on.  John Clemente amazingly gets it all down, all correct and every little detail in.  How he did it I don't know.  This book is fabulous and endlessly rereadable.  And you will love the rare photos.	2001-11-05
US	51647838	R2F7HPIUUIKTIW	0813121361	534102807	Swing It!: The Andrews Sisters Story	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Worth getting	Several books have been written on the Andrews Sisters but this is the first of them to make publication.  It is more a published dissertation than a book as it is based entirely on already published sources.  So it's really a parade of events in the Andrews' life than a real biography with the inside story, first-person interviews and the like.  So much is missing, including the real reason for Patty and Maxene feuding; the person Maxene introduced late in life as her daughter; the real reason Patty could not undertake an outstanding solo career when Maxene ended up doing just that; Maxene and LaVerne's occasional lead singing on the records and their hurt feelings about Patty getting the leads when they also could sing lead--something they were too professional and too loyal to Patty to complain about.  A lot seems to sail by the author, too, such as the fact nearly the entire Andrews Sisters catalog consists of them singing a capella!  The instrumenation only occurs BETWEEN the sung lines and at the start and end of the records.  It's mentioned briefly but that's it. Much is also missing of the Andrews's family saga, particularly their beloved mom and dad who were thought of in Hollywood as not so beloved.  But, that aside, the scholarship here in terms of research is excellent; the book is smoothly written, fair, balanced and knowledgeable; and the discography at the end goes far beyond the others which have been compiled previously.  For now this is the definitive Andrews book.  Patty has been working on an autobiography forever and we're all still waiting.   She is highly regarded in the entertainment business for her brights, her great talent, her enthusiastic personality and her true interest in and love of people.  Until then, you will enjoy this book.	2001-07-16
US	51647838	R7417E1O6H2R6	0465026214	911697688	Gay New York: Gender, Urban Culture, and the Making of the Gay Male World, 1890-1940	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	A fabulous read	George Chauncey has managed to mix strong research, true history and a flavorful writing approach to produce a box which is both informative and entertaining.  It's rich with detail and captures an era gone with immediacy and flair.  Chauncey has discovered the gay history we thought existed isn't quite what actually happened.	2001-05-18
US	51647838	R3KGKOGZDBOIYB	0465026214	911697688	Gay New York: Gender, Urban Culture, and the Making of the Gay Male World, 1890-1940	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A fabulous read	George Chauncey has managed to mix strong research, true history and a flavorful writing approach to produce a box which is both informative and entertaining.  It's rich with detail and captures an era gone with immediacy and flair.  Chauncey has discovered the gay history we thought existed isn't quite what actually happened.	2001-05-18
US	51647838	R3QBZMVAOK8N9Z	0446610003	961224668	I'm Wild Again	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Wild...Again	Helen Gurley Brown basically has written the same book at least four times and only she could manage to make each new version totally captivating.  This latest rewrite of &quot;Sex and the Single Girl&quot; covers a lot of the same ground as the original but 40 years later.  It's still amazingly fresh, witty, original and brave.  AND USEFUL.  I'm a male mouseburger and Helen has provided many guideposts to life for me (we also turned out to have the same work habits, likes and dislikes, untiring ambition and enthusiasm for our work, love for good health).  She's been there, done that, learned from it and she has always been totally generous with her wisdom.  This book is a quick read, never a dull moment and mucho thought-provoking.  You'll come back to it again and again.  Bravo to HGB!	2001-03-06
US	51647838	R2NMBP33TFG09P	0446524263	781433214	Jackie, Ethel, Joan: Women of Camelot	Books	5	8	10	N	N	You Won't Be Able To Put It Down	Randy T. did tremendous research for this book--the hard work is evident in literally every page. He's done minimal rehashing of what has been published before and maxium new lighting of what hefore has never been  revealed.  You'd think at this point there would be nothing more  significant to write about the Kennedys but this book delivers the goods  and then some.  Jackie if anything comes off as even more heroic than  before in how she handles her life, her husband, her children and the dead  certainty she will be harmed if she continues to live in the United States  as a Presidential widow.  And it's clear here is a woman who basically let  the public create her image and believe what it wanted to believe about  her. Meanwhile, she was living exactly the way she wanted to live.  It's  clear she was bright, educated, loved art and artists, was a hard worker, a  conscientious mother and nobody's fool.  She's the star of the book but the  other two Kennedy ladies are fascinating, too, even if they are Mary and  Florence to her Diana.	2000-02-19
US	51647838	R3U8VEL24OJMTR	0964727919	771405332	St. Louis and its streetcars: The way it was	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Clang Clang Clang Went The Trolley	Six days a week my Dad drove a trolley for Public Service Co. in St. Louis. On the seventh day he took me riding out into Ferguson on the City Limits line, to Brentwood, to Kirkwood, to Creve Coeur Lake.  Every home we  owned turned out to have been an on a trolley line (my parents were not  surprised after settling into their last home in Maryland Heights when I  announced I had found the former Creve Coeur right-of-way in nearby woods).   This book has great photos, great text and keen intelligence behind it.   But I'm withholding a star because the following are not pictured:  Crow's  Nest Loop on the Creve Coeur Line; the City Limits Loop at Wesley Avenue  and Florissant Road in Ferguson; the City Limits-Berkeley junction at  Ramona Park in Kinloch; the City Limits right-of-way on what is now  Suburban Avenue at Florissant Road in Ferguson (the streetcars came out of  the woods on a two-track right-of-way which merged into one track in the  street);  the Clayton right-of-way up the hill from Wydown and Hanley to  its link with the Kirkwood line near what is now Central Avenue; the  Brentwood Dinky powerhouse (still in existence at Brentwood Plastics) at  the junction of the Kirkwood and Brentwood lines; and the set of gauntlet  tracks-within-tracks behind Sportsman Park where there wasn't enough room  in the pavement for separate tracks; the St. Charles line where it DIDN'T  run alongside St. Charles Rock Road.  When I do MY St. Louis streetcar  book...	2000-02-08
US	51647838	R2C7LBJEO985VJ	0809321246	83778613	The Great Cyclone at St Louis and East St. Louis, May 27, 1896 (Shawnee Classics)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A twister unraveled	So much has been written about this storm over the years and so much erroneous.  Major tornado histories have stated there was no funnel cloud but as we know from this book that was true at the start of the storm but  later in its path there clearly was a funnel--the book even describes its  location at cloud level AND ground level--and then multiple funnels were  evident.  This contemporary account from more than a century ago still  provides riveting reading.  Perhaps one day someone will likewise document  the Sept. 29, 1927, tornado which similarly has been misreported over the  years (no funnel in that one, too, reportedly except I've spoken to people  who SAW it).	2000-02-04
US	51647838	R15Q6AP88KEL7Z	0375500332	929279308	Aretha: From These Roots	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	Disappointment from The Diva	First, absence of a discography and even index is astouding for a major title from a major publisher.  Second, Miss Franklin's reputation in the entertainment business is of a rather distanced person who tends not to  think or speak in a straightline.  This kind of oblique personality doesn't  translate to the printed page.  There's little sense here of real life.  Third, the ego displayed in these pages is truly disturbing.  Miss Franklin  seems long ago to have lost touch with any reality.  She is a great artist  and a seminal figure in music history but she is still a human.  Someone  needs to remind her.	1999-10-21
US	51647838	RSLZYVBYF8FYG	0684852845	190410376	The Million Dollar Mermaid: An Autobiography	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Splashy!	Esther Williams' autobiography is a straight eye-to-eye account of her unique saga with none of the usual coyness of show business biographies.  She tells all. In the telling, the book seems naughty at times but, no,  it's just honest.  It is strange how every man she falls in love with is,  um, er, well-equipped but she, um, er, even, um, er, handles those details  handily.  So to speak. I loved this book.	1999-10-21
US	51647838	R1K7Q2KRMNUHCK	0312870884	302636198	Who's Sorry Now?	Books	3	53	63	N	N	Missed opportunity	What is amazing about this book in that Connie Francis never gives a clue as to how she chose her songs, how they were recorded, how she became a worldwide artist in a dozen languages (how was there time to make so many  records?), her evolvement as an artist, her legendary unreleased album  &quot;For The Boys&quot; (recorded at Abbey Road), and the fact the cute,  darling girl the public saw was markedly different from the confident,  authoritative, knowledgeable and throughly professional and businesslike  person in the recording studio.  Being capable in the entertainment field  while being darling to the public was a difficult achievement Connie  Francis attained beautifully.  But IT'S NOT IN THE BOOK!  Her music was  unsually far-ranging, her recordings had their own sound and her hitmaking  instincts were unparalleled. But IT'S NOT IN THE BOOK!  And once the hits  stopped coming, she found it impossible to restart even though her later  records were easily the most brilliant she did. But IT'S NOT IN THE BOOK.   At the end, her record company basically deserted her the way record  companies tend to do.  Years of making a fortune for it didn't mean a  thing. But IT'S NOT IN THE BOOK!  What IS there is interesting and  informative but the important stuff?  IT AIN'T IN THE BOOK!	1999-05-24
US	51647838	R1VWVDQUNHXOJQ	0425132706	884742161	Miss Peggy Lee	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Miss Mosh	Given the fact Miss Peggy Lee has been one of the premiere popular singers of the past 60 or so years, an outstanding songwriter, an accomplished actress, a well-known artist and art collector plus a great mother and  grandmother adored by her family, this book must be counted as one of the  great mysteries of show business autobiography. I've never met anyone who  didn't find this volume all but impossible to follow--it is SO  disorganized. But, beyond there, there's not a CLUE as to where her singing  style came from, how she developed as an artist, how she went through  several &quot;sounds&quot; in her recording career before arriving at long  last with the album &quot;The Man I Love&quot; with the Peggy we know  today.  We hear NOTHING of her trailblazing work as an independent woman in  charge of her own destiny and what that took, her temperament (a legend of  its own) and her taking what essentially was a farm girl's face and body  and transforming it into one of the world's great beauties (and how, though  she has had to deal with a weight problem much of her life no one thinks of  her as heavy because no matter what her weight she dresses perfectly to  look elegant, beautiful and dreamlike).  This book is a disappointingly  confused once-over with very little insight from a woman who is, if nothing  else, truly insightful.  I'm told the British edition is much more  understandable. Lucky them.	1999-05-24
