US	51646210	RADPY8WSW7EGI	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	5	1	2	N	N	King's best, hands down.	There are already a ton of reviews for this book here, so I don't think I'll waste your time with another plot summary.  This book made me cry.  It was humbling.  Humbling because of its sheer size, humbling because of the intensely moving humanity of the characters, and humbling because of the grace and eloquence of this coming-of-age tale.  Yes, IT is a horror novel.  It will keep you up at night, and you will perhaps be appalled by some of the atrocities committed during the course of the story.   <br /> <br />But IT is also a novel of deep truth and understanding.  In IT, King has crafted some of the most detailed and wonderful characters I have ever seen.  A blurb on the first page states that \\"It feels like you're reading about yourself,\\" and this is not far from the truth.  IT will draw you in and keep you captive to its believable and fantastic world.  The book is over 1000 pages, but you won't notice it.  And when it's over, you'll miss it and it will stay with you for a long time.	2005-09-16
US	51646210	R2IDO2URKWPFLE	0553288202	47311872	The Fall of Hyperion	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Hyperion saga comes full circle	Dan Simmons' The Fall of Hyperion is the sequel to his Hugo-winning novel Hyperion, a grand masterpiece in its own right.  However, The Fall of Hyperion is where the story is truly realized, explored, and concluded.  The destinies of the Shrike pilgrims are told with stunning skill and moving ability, and the epic story of the Hegemony wars finally plays out. <br /> <br />Of course, you should not pick up this novel without first reading Hyperion.  But you should buy this with Hyperion--the original novel ends with an absolutely terrible cliffhanger. <br /> <br />The Fall of Hyperion is told with all the deep human emotion and brilliant prose of the original novel, and I am surprised that it too did not receive the Hugo award.  Granted, there are still the slow philosophical parts, and much space is devoted to the discussion of the nature of God and gods and the relationship of humankind to their deities.  Personally, I found it fascinating, and it doesn't detract from the story in the least. <br /> <br />For cutting-edge, gripping science fiction, finish off the Hyperion set with The Fall of Hyperion.  Dan Simmons is once again at his best in this novel, and you won't be disappointed.	2005-09-01
US	51646210	R1RYL4GDB7MP2S	156931778X	419611869	Battle Royale	Books	3	1	9	N	N	A bit of a letdown, but certainly worth a look.	With Battle Royale, it seems like Takami came up with a really innovative, potentially groundbreaking idea for a plot, and then proceeded to fumble around blindly in the darkness of his own poor prose and foolish philosophical notions.  There are brief glimpses of what this book could have been-scenes of intense grief, stark moral ambiguity, moving moments of love and friendship in the face of death, and cutthroat, back-to-the-wall fighting.  But it's ruined by unbelievable characters and scenarios.  The real flaw in this book is that the characters do not behave like humans.  There aren't any believable background stories, emotions, or even simple conversations. <br /> <br />Additionally, Takami is stylistically abominable.  The writing is laughably absurd, although this may be from the Japanese-to-English translation.  The weak, clunky prose repeatedly took me away from the story and the characters. <br /> <br />Battle Royale could have been an amazing, moving, humbling tale.  It could have been a modern day Lord of the Flies.  It could have been insanely entertaining.  It could have been genius.  There were moments of this tale, the true tale, that really shook me.  But on the whole, Battle Royale stumbles and falls on its own rudimentary shortcomings.  <br /> <br />In the disjointed English of the novel, this book is sad.  That's right, Takami didn't live up to his promises.  In other words, I was disappointed.	2005-08-21
US	51646210	RZXAXOB6X7DH8	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Top-quality science fiction!	Hyperion will absolutely blow you away.  <br /> <br />The thousands of worlds of the human Hegemony are slowly collapsing into decay, corruption, and war.  It is against this dark setting that seven pilgrims--a diverse collection of people ranging from a sadistic ex-soldier to a two-hundred-year-old poet--set out on a journey to the mythical planet of Hyperion, seeking out the monstrous Shrike.  Each carries a desperate hope and a terrible secret.  One holds the fate of humanity in his hands. <br /> <br />The book centers on the tales of the seven pilgrims, their hopes, their dreams, their fears, and the motives that drive them to risk almost certain death at the hands of the Shrike.  The story is richly imagined and textured with deeply human intensity.  It's dark, frightening, enlightening, humorous, and heart-breaking. <br /> <br />And impossible to put down.	2005-08-15
US	51646210	R1DHRZ1RXDHURN	0765308401	882312732	Maps in a Mirror: The Short Fiction of Orson Scott Card	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A sound collection of Card's short stories	I've always loved collections of short stories, especially when the author includes introductions and afterwords to his works.  It really gives the reader a chance to see into the mind of the writer, and to understand what he is all about.  Maps in a Mirror succeeds admirably in bringing together the huge spectrum of Orson Scott Card's short stories.  For the most part, the stories are thought-provoking and fun.  Card's commentaries provide extra insight into how the stories came about. <br /> <br />Some of the stories tend toward long-winded philosophy and moral arguing, which certainly isn't bad, but can become a bit tedious.    Still, all of Card's gems are here, as well as many other less famous stories.  There's nothing more enjoyable than being able to sit down and delve into a short story that you know you'll be finishing in one sitting.  The short story is a world apart from the novel, and Card certainly does the style justice.	2005-08-13
US	51646210	R117GX729O42XQ	0812550757	241285325	Speaker for the Dead (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Uncle Orson's best!	Speaker for the Dead absolutely blew me away.  It might have been the deeply human characters, filled with thousands of emotions and troubles and joys and passions.  It might have been the richly imagined setting and the grand space epic the Card has crafted as his world.  Or it might have been the rich philosophical texturing that permeates every aspect of the book. <br /> <br />Speaker for the Dead will challenge your beliefs.  It is not a comfortable novel, so to speak.  It does not reaffirm your every conviction about the nature of life and the universe.  Card pits many ways of life and thinking--each of them right in their own way--against one another in a struggle for the perpetuation of an  entire world.  This book will makes you think, and it makes you question. <br /> <br />But in the end, Speaker for the Dead will leave you in awe.  You will feel the triumph of love and truth and friendship against all odds.  You will cry for the tragic beauty of the sacrifices we make in the name of our beliefs.  And you will realize that when all the chips are down, it's what is in our hearts that counts most. <br /> <br />Speaker for the Dead is a storyof profound sadness and grief, of turmoil and tribulation and sorely-tested faith.  But it is also, I think, the most hopeful story I have ever read.  It is a story of not only humanity, but of both human and alien life, and the love and compassion that bind us.	2005-08-12
US	51646210	R2OQH8974R6O8	0553383086	641750972	Dying of the Light	Books	5	12	19	N	N	Deeply human and affecting	George R. R. Martin really shines in Dying of the Light.  Here he has created a world that is slowly sliding into darkness as it moves away from its suns.  Set in this melancholy--and strangely beautiful--land is a heart-wrenching story of broken love and struggle.  The small triumphs of decency and nobility in the face of hopelessness and fanaticism are Martin's true subject matter.  The wonderfully imagined world and the fun futuristic science and technology are just added bonuses. <br /> <br />Readers will come to Dying of the Light for the sense of wonder that Martin brings to his fantasies so effortlessly.  They will stay for the truly human characters and deeply affecting stories of unrequited love, sacrifice, and truth.	2005-08-10
US	51646210	R2VUIP7T4FLT7O	006441034X	458436371	Howl's Moving Castle (World of Howl)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A really wonderful story for readers ages one through ninety-nine!	I approached Howl's Moving Castle with a little bit of skepticism.  It had been a long time since I had read any \\"young adult\\" books, and I worried about the quality of the writing and the story.  Plus, this was my first Diana Wynne Jones book.  Turns out all my fears were misplaced.  Howl's Moving Castle, like Jones' other works, is pure magic.  The characters glow with a life and truth that is lacking in many other \\"adult\\" novels.  The story is at once gripping and hilarious, moving and light-hearted.   <br /> <br />Howl is the true star of this story.  His self-absorbed personality and overly-sensitive antics are absolutely brilliant.    <br /> <br />Classic.	2005-08-08
US	51646210	R14R790NCTZWB0	0451210859	511631376	The Drawing of the Three: (The Dark Tower #2)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A grand continuation of the Dark Tower saga	It is difficult to provide an accurate review of a book that-in all practical sense of the words-has neither beginning nor end.  The Drawing of The Three, the second installment of King's monumental Dark Tower series, opens directly after the climax of The Gunslinger.  It is in The Drawing of The Three that The Dark Tower really finds its true voice and its true nature.  A large portion of the book takes place in our \\"real world\\", in the city of New York where Roland recruits those bound by destiny to quest for the Tower.  The focus of the tale is this gathering of journeyers and their unique stories. <br /> <br />Once again, King's imagination is indescribably vivid.  The world of the Dark Tower is rife with truly real and wonderful characters.  Their perils are agonizing, their stories are heart-rending, and the reader leaves with a true sense of wonder and awe.  Throughout the series, there is a very real, believable sense that there is immensely more to our world that what meets the eyes. <br /> <br />Here is an enthralling world of wonder and fantasy that draws the reader to it with all the majesty and power of the Dark Tower itself.	2005-05-10
US	51646210	R3VZIB9E7WJ75O	0670032565	511631376	The Waste Lands (The Dark Tower, Book 3)	Books	5	29	32	N	N	The quest endures!	The Wastelands-King's third installment in the Dark Tower saga-marks the true beginning of the quest in many ways.  Roland finally gathers his ka-tet (group bound to him by destiny) as he draws young Jake into his world amid a demonic rainstorm.  And it is here, as the group prepares to embark on a seemingly insane journey through the Waste Lands (part of Mid-World that has been utterly ravaged by war and the decay of the Tower), that we finally get a look at the true nature of Roland's world. <br />  <br />From the City of Lud-a post-apocalyptic industrial ruin-to the lost cyborg-bear Shardik and the dread portal he guards, it is clear from the start that Roland's world-and perhaps our world as well-contains vastly more than meets the eye.  Perhaps the greatest asset to The Waste Lands is the sheer imaginative scope that binds the tale of Roland's ka-tet.  Here is a world so complete in its history, so flawless in its realization, and so utterly compelling in its people, that it is far too easy to lose yourself in. <br /> <br />In The Waste Lands, the Dark Tower epic picks of steam and sends the reader hurtling down the dark halls of King's fantastic world. <br /> <br />A word of warning:  Have a copy of Wizard and Glass (Book IV) on hand when you finish this; it ends with a really agonizing cliff-hanger.	2005-05-10
US	51646210	R1GWGBPDX3I2KF	0670032549	511631376	The Gunslinger (The Dark Tower, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A unique beginning to the Dark Tower	The Gunslinger--actually a series of distinct short stories--envelopes the reader in its richly crafted world and its incredibly absorbing characters.  The book draws its strength from its odd, strangely disjointed feel.  We know next to nothing about the gunslinger himself, and even less about the strange world we find ourselves in.  But half the fun of this book is reveling in the confusing mirage of the gunslinger's desert dystopia, journeying and discovering everything at the same pace as the gunslinger himself in a world where everything is not quite as it seems.  It is a hazy world, only dimly lit by the light of reason, yet at the same time bound together by the passions and powers of its stunningly human inhabitants. <br /> <br />The whole book is tied together with a feeling of haunting, mesmeric urgency.  \\"The Man in Black fled across the desert, and the Gunslinger followed\\", the story begins, and after the initial one-two punch of the opening tale, the book never lets go. <br /> <br />In many ways this book is incredibly unorthodox, and I think most readers will either love it or hate it.  But if you're like me, and this kind of dark pseudo-fantasy appeals to you, you will utterly lose yourself in this book and its sequels.  At times you may be confused, bewildered by the strange world and even stranger characters.  But in the end, like the Gunslinger himself, the Dark Tower will have you under its spell as you revel in King's dusty dream-world of The Gunslinger.	2005-04-30
US	51646210	RJ06E5VVUZY7V	0743457358	796500127	Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	An epic collection of short stories!	Stephen King's latest collection of short stories is not only wonderfully written, but incredibly varied stories.  The tales range from humorous, fantasy twists on daily life to downright screamers-with a healthy mix of provocative and subtle moody pieces thrown in.  You'll be along for the ride on a myriad of journeys, some into the depths of your soul, others to dark dreams of murder and mystery.  <br /> <br />His worlds are fully realized, and his characters are vividly real and strikingly passionate.  All the works can certainly be read in one sitting, and you will find yourself doing just that.  His tales truly are wondrous in their depth and execution. <br /> <br />In his introduction, King bemoans the fall of short stories from their grandeur.  As an avid fan of the old sci-fi and fantasy magazines of the 20th century, I can certainly make testament to the decay of the popularity of short stories.  If you've never really delved into the world of short stories-quick hits, as I sometimes call them-then King's works are a great place to start.  And if you pine for the glory days of the short story, pick up Everything's Eventual and relive the memories.  <br /> <br />For here are short stories at their finest, and the apotheosis of imagination.	2005-04-27
US	51646210	RZHPMJZ074GAT	0060593083	727370009	Quicksilver (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 1)	Books	2	5	12	N	Y	A tad turgid for my tastes	I really enjoy a good history read, and dense language or slow plot certainly doesn't turn me off from a book.  But I think the problem with the Baroque Cycle-especially Quicksilver-was that the story just couldn't decide which direction it wanted to take.  A gritty, pseudo-fictional historical treatise would be great, as would a more relaxed narrative in the historical fiction vein.  But Quicksilver straddles the line between the two genres, and I felt that it really didn't pull it off well.    The characters are certainly grand, and their scholarly endeavors are fascinating.  However, just as the tale seems to be picking up steam and breaking wide open, it bogs down in pages upon pages of historical doggerel.  The historical/scientific addendums really aren't necessary, and they're written a touch pedantically.  I could follow them well enough, but they left me wondering why the passages had been included in the first place.  Arcane (of questionable veracity, too) tidbits of information mingle with extended enumerations of royal lineage that came across as needlessly dense and turgid.    Don't get me wrong, the writing is marvelous and the story is epic.  But there's just too many extraneous story threads and underlying arcana to really let you be absorbed into the book.      You come to a history text with a certain attitude, a scientific treatise with another, and historical fiction with yet another.  Quicksilver tears you between the three subjects, and ends up a bit mediocre for it.	2005-04-15
US	51646210	R1PD6BKHY79WLI	0743424425	966329377	The Shining	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Victims of our own minds	Stephen King's The Shining is brilliant for both its sheer terror and its utter reality.  The Shining is not merely a ghost story, or a haunted house story.  It is a story about people, a family.  The Torrance family is masterfully portrayed; Jack, Wendy, and Danny all come across as stunningly human and real.  We feel the pain of Wendy's hopeless love for her husband, we agonize with Jack as he is plagued by demons from his past and his own psychological instability, and Danny is a lovable-yet frighteningly mature-child.  <br /> <br />It is this truly human aspect that lends The Shining its power.  Jack is not the mindless killer that populates most pulp slasher movies.  He is a real person, unstable and tormented.  In the end, even the reader begins to wonder how much of Jack's madness is ghosts and how much is his own terrifying human flaws.  King has created a brilliant villain in Jack, not because he is so inescapably evil, but because he is so troublingly real. Wendy and Danny are wonderful, as well, but I think The Shining is really Jack's story.  And a troubling one it is.   <br /> <br />The Shining stands to date as one of my favorite horror novels.  King's horror is both real and imagined, and all too often his ghosts and monsters are products of his character's minds.  You will lose yourself in the Torrance family's ghoulish story, and your heart will pound with fear.  But you might also cry.  You might also laugh, and feel real joy with the characters.  Because The Shining is not just horror, it is a grandly imagined story of incredible ambition and capability. <br /> <br />It will remain in your mind for a long time.  If not because of its paralyzing horror, then because of its deeply human messages and impact. <br /> <br />	2005-04-14
US	51646210	R38875D9G1CB4P	1931082723	140297629	H. P. Lovecraft: Tales (Library of America)	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Best H.P. Lovecraft collection available	H.P. Lovecraft's stories have always resonated within me with a peculiar relevance.  His writing, seemingly subconsciously, penetrates readers' minds and mines our deepest fears.  Although he is certainly not above fun scares and thrills--indeed, his mordant wit is wonderful when he decides to make monsters jump at us--the true genius of his writing comes when he delves deep into the darkest corners of the human psyche. <br /> <br />Dread of the unknown, loneliness, primal human fears, all are captured with unsurpassed horror by Lovecraft.  Stories such as The Rats in the Walls and The Music of Erich Zann are timeless in their portrayal of the darker aspects of nature, and the fearsome power that they hold over humans.  Lovecraft walks the thin line between reality and nightmare, between sanity and madness.  The hidden horror in the darkness, the strange sound in the attic, a lonely, moonless night--such is the realm of Lovecraft.  Here are classic ghost stories tinged with a moving subtlety that plays off of the true nature of human fear, as well as haunting tales of psychological terror and doom. <br /> <br />The Library of America's collection of Lovecraft's tales is decidely the best anthology available.  Not only are all his best stories included, but there are also many oft-overlooked or unpublished works that definitely deserve to be read.  Granted, there are a few aberrations and flops (Herbert West--Reanimator), but they really are just bonuses.  Everything that needed to be included has been.   <br /> <br />If you're a Lovecraft fan, this is a great definitive anthology.  And if you've never had the pleasure of journeying with Lovecraft into the far reaches of the unknown, this is a great book to start with.	2005-04-01
US	51646210	R3F3XZ7WKN9FQG	0674011147	682577634	Russia and the Russians: A History	Books	4	23	24	N	N	An involved look at Russian history for popular readers	I came to this book from a more scholarly standpoint, hoping to find an in-depth and insightful history of Russia.  The book delivered well on my expectations but, in the end, I found myself enjoying it on a more popular level.  Hosking's research and presentation are excellent, and he does a remarkable job of tying vast amounts of material together with concision and eloquence, but there is a lot of important information that has been left out. <br /> <br />Much that I would deem important had been omitted from his account, leaving rather perfunctory sections where the book feels 'glossed over' or generalized.  Still, the lack of detail can be overlooked, especially because the book was clearly designed for a more popular audience.  In this case, the details might have bogged down the momentum of the work.  <br /> <br />It is this momentum--while still managing to craft a brilliant big-picture look at Russia--that makes Hosking's book shine.  This is less a story of a handful of Tsars and more a story of Russia's people--their triumphs, failures, struggles, and lives.  We trace Russia as a cultural and national identity through the ages, stopping to examine the influence and force of individual Tsars, but always focusing on what the people were doing. <br /> <br />Russia was not defined only by its Tsars. It was also defined by its people.  This is a tale for them, and it is resonating and fascinating.  Although it lacks the hard and fast research of other histories, relying more on generalizations and conclusions, Hosking tells his story well and has crafted perhaps the most human of all Russian histories.	2005-03-26
US	51646210	R3KV0P6SP2FIKB	0765340054	582223695	Shadow Puppets (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A solid continuation of Bean's tale	Uncle Orson has managed to perpetuate Bean's gripping, heartfelt saga on Earth in Shadow Puppets, the third installment in Bean's tale.  The book picks up directly after Shadow of the Hegemon, with China in control of most of the world, and Peter, Bean, and Petra attempting to pick up the pieces and fight back.    Card's stories draw their strength from his intensely personal and truly human depictions of his characters.  Some readers were disappointed by the lack of hard sci-fi action (or even any action at all) in Shadow of the Hegemon.  Unfortunately, Shadow Puppets continues the tradition of a relatively non-action oriented plot.  However, this really is not a bad thing.  The characters are so real, their problems and emotions so true, and Card's moral insights and tricky intellectual situations so enticing, that Shadow Puppets has a soul that most sci-fi books cannot hold a candle to.    Bean's search for truth and God, in the midst of global war and his impending mortality, struck a chord with me.  His love for Petra and desire to have a family with her provide the moral and emotional backbone for the novel.  His struggles, his triumphs, and his failures are masterfully told by Card.  For me, Bean and Petra have certainly been some of the more human characters I have come across in my reading.    Peter Wiggin also plays a significantly more pronounced role in Shadow Puppets.  Card fleshes out Peter in an intriguing manner--the young Hegemon is revealed as doubting, unsure, often arrogant, and generally humanly flawed.  Personally, it was a rather refreshing break from the demi-god child-leaders who bestride Card's world.  I really enjoyed Peter's anti-hero character, and was cheering for him the whole time.      The only real let-down in the book is Achilles.  After striking so much fear into the hearts of mankind in the first two novels, displaying voracious intelligence, and nearly seducing Petra, I was ready to see him come face-to-face with Bean in a grandclimax.  Unfortunately, Shadow Puppets slightly drops the ball here.  Achilles is agonizingly downplayed, to the point of obscurity.  He shows up rarely, and becomes almost the cardboard nemesis that the Buggers were in previous books.     Still, Shadow Puppets is a great, well-told story of real characters with real emotions in gripping situations.  Card's story-telling is masterful, and his world is superbly crafted.	2005-03-25
US	51646210	R286VOVF6GRFGQ	068480137X	705619047	D Day: June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War II	Books	5	0	2	N	Y	Wonderfully engaging history	If the sheer scope and immensity of Ambrose's topic--the Normandy invasion--does not draw you into his book, his accessible and lucid writing will.  Ambrose takes the reader through a chronological account of the events that led up to, and resulted from, the Normandy landings. <br /> <br />You will find detailed, responsible accounts of the powerful men who shaped the destinies of untold millions on those days.  You will find touching, personal accounts of the ordinary soldier who made it all happen.  It is held together by Ambrose's engaging narrative style and insightful observations. <br /> <br />Ambrose's book is not only the best historical work I have read recently, it is perhaps the most in-depth and responsibly researched account of D-Day that is available.	2005-03-20
US	51646210	R2LMBBBQDSLSAU	0582084121	736058716	Peter the Great (Profiles in Power)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Solidly researched and well presented	Peter the Great-Profiles in Power is an informative and scholarly account of Peter the Great's life and times.  While it may not be for the traditional popular audience (it's not pretty, has no pictures, and can be rather turgid and meandering at points), it provides a relatively concise account of a fascinating topic. <br /> <br />If you are interested at all in Russia and Peter the Great, there are of course many good books from which to start your reading.  M.S. Anderson's is perhaps more involved than similar books, but it compensates for its density by being chock full of well-researched and well-presented information.	2005-03-20
US	51646210	R1NGC35SRRZTFP	0812565959	882430933	Shadow of the Hegemon (The Shadow Series)	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	A grand addition to Bean's saga	Shadow of the Hegemon picks up directly after the events of Ender's Shadow and Ender's Game.  The Formics have been vanquished, but the nations of Earth have been thrust into political turmoil.  As powerful countries grapple for dominance, the brilliant strategic minds of the Battle School children are priceless to world leaders.  Bean, Petra, and the rest of Ender's team are torn between personal ties, national allegiances, and enemies that want them killed.  Achilles--the psychopathic killer from the first novels--is also out to seize power for himself, using his political clout as a Battle School student to insert himself in the inner circles of global leaders.  As the story unfolds, the reader is caught up in a grand saga of international intrigue, personal passions and friendships, and Bean's own search for truth. <br /> <br />Granted, your suspension of disbelief may be sorely tried in some sections (a 14 year old negotiating a non-aggression pact between India and Pakistan, for instance), but most of the action is believable and real.  Some of the characters--Petra and Bean specifically--come across as rather bratty and arrogant early on, but it soon becomes evident that the book is about their own maturing and coming-of-age as much as it is about international warfare and politics. <br /> <br />By the end of the novel, you will have fallen in love with the characters from Ender's Shadow all over again.  Bean's search for his own humanity and religious struggling are heartfelt and true.  Achilles' twisted machinations are as frighteningly real as ever.  And the friendship, love, and compassion that binds Bean and his 'crew' together, through thick and thin, resonates long after the reader has closed the book. <br /> <br />Some say the book lacks the action and originality of Ender's Shadow and Ender's Game.  This may be true; it is more stereotypical sci-fi/historical fiction than its predecessors.  But the core of the story is gold.  The writing is impeccable, the characters are truly brilliant, and the experience is unforgettable.	2005-03-20
US	51646210	R13E3BVEYUM05C	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Stunningly human science fiction!	Ender's Game, the origin of Orson Scott Card's grand saga of Earth's future, is perhaps the best science fiction novel I have read.  It is getting on in years now, and many who have never read it may relegate it as a relic of those dusty, \\"Golden Age\\" science fiction stories where dry expositions on hypothetical technology supersede--and often completely nullify--the impact of the story. <br /> <br />Ender's Game is a novel of much higher caliber.  The characters are true and real, deeply human and agonizingly flawed.  Humanity, faced with extinction in a decades-long war with an alien race, has its back to the wall.  We cheer for our fellow humans, but not blindly.  We see their flaws and we feel their pain, and we shake our heads at the mistakes of the \\"grown-ups\\" when faced with children so brilliant as Ender and his contemporaries. <br /> <br />The impending doom of all humanity pushes the urgency of the story to a near fever-pitch.  This is one book that is easily readable in one sitting, simply for its rapid-fire pace and adrenaline injected plot. <br /> <br />While Ender's Game is chock-full of adventure and war, Card has also created a wealth of emotional, moral, and religious conflicts that cling to the reader long after he has set the book down.  It is here, where Ender grapples with his destiny, where the genius-children--victims of their society--fight among themselves and challenge their world, that Ender's Game truly hits home.  This book, and its lessons, questions, conflicts, and triumphs, is one to re-read over and over.   <br /> <br />I know I do, and I get something different and wonderful every time.	2005-03-08
US	51646210	R17GQ3KC02JYYW	0312140398	707311195	The Rise and Fall of the British Empire	Books	5	92	95	N	Y	Scholarly, intriguing--although rudimentary--account	A book with so ambitious a title as \\"The Rise and Fall of the British Empire\\" holds much promise for the reader.  Visions of 1000+ page tomes come to mind.  After all, there is a lot of time and history involved with so monumental a subject.  But  James' account of what was arguably the greatest cultural, economic, and social force the world has ever known--the British empire--delivers solidly on that promise with clarity and brevity. <br /> <br />I won't mince words.  The book is short for so massive a subject.  But James executes it well.  Some passages and accounts are agonizingly brief, of course, but the purpose of the book is not to delve deeply into the minutiae of the Empire's history.  It provides a fairly elementary overview of the important events that unfolded to shape the Empire, painting an elegant background picture of the sheer scope and impact of imperialism. <br /> <br />Yes, pivotal situations, political turmoil, and wars are often glossed over, replaced by \\"big picture\\" statements or sweeping extrapolations and conclusions.  But this is not necessarily a bad thing.  The book's focus is decidely on the causes and effects of various events, and their place in the vast course of history that the Empire occupied.  Events are covered in enough detail to allow James to continue his \\"big picture\\" story, but not in enough to detail to satiate an interested scholar.   <br /> <br />Thus, the book is a fantastic background for anybody who is either completely unversed in English imperial history, or for readers wanting solid background knowledge to accomodate further, more detailed readings.  But, as a background, this book is incredibly detailed.  The book's accounts span some 400 years of British history, in which the nation evolved from a fairly mediocre European island power into one of the most dynamic and influential economic and military machines that the world has ever known.  The people, the events, and the stories that contributed to this rise topower are all brought to live with stunning truth through James' writing.  The book is divided into clear, understandable chapters that are well-written and researched. <br /> <br />James does not force didactic revisionist theories on us.  He presents a clear, eloquent, interesting, and objective account of the British Empire, and leaves the reader with a deep and poigant understanding of the implications of the Empire's history. <br /> <br />This is an absolute must for not only those new to British history, but for the learned scholar who seeks a well-rounded, intriguing look into the vast span of Britain's imperial history.	2005-03-03
US	51646210	R2NQW6CCXEN8TP	0440145465	84946632	King Rat (Asian Saga)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	The truly human side of history	James Clavell's King Rat is a poignant, resonating tale about humanity and struggle in incredibly dire situations--namely, the World War II Japanese prison camp of Changi.    The bulk of the story, consisting of the life-and-death daily turmoil among the POWs, is deeply affecting and intriguing.  Clavell writes concisely and powerfully.  The brief descriptions and terse dialog amplify the emotion and passion of the story.  It is not often that a book is truly \\"hard to put down\\" for me, but this was one of them.  The pace of the book and the compassion I developed for the characters was such that I really didn't want to stop.    The ending left me profoundly melancholy--not necessarily a bad thing.  Clavell creates intense moral questions for the reader about honor, duty, loyalty, love, and a thousand other human emotions.  As the war ends and the prisoners are faced with the somehow-terrorizing concept of returning to normal life, the reader comes to grips with what truly matters in life, the hope and faith of the POWs, and the joy of life in the face of death.    King Rat is a whirlwind of emotion and adventure.  It will heighten your understanding of World War II history and leave you questioning.  A grand tale.	2005-03-01
US	51646210	R3JUMZK2ZOHPIO	0440178002	191357398	Shogun (Asian Saga)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Truly Moving	This book has been reviewed and re-reviewed so many times on this site, that I will not trouble you with another rehashed plot synopsis or analysis of the characters.  Instead, I give you my core impressions of the novel.    Shogun, in all of its titanic 1100+ page glory, humbles the reader with its sheer grace and majesty.  Clavell crafts his characters in painstaking, loving completeness, and is just as attentive to the plot and finer nuances of the book.  You will fall in love with the characters, exult in their triumphs and cry for their failings.  It is a story about love and honor and loyalty and doubt and searching and a hundred thousand other human passions.    Clavell posesses a gift for bringing foreign cultures and places alive with vivid, piercing reality.  You will feel the cold bite of steel, smell the sea air off of Osaka, see the radiant, red dawn before a battle, and cherish the brilliant world that Clavell has woven together so perfectly.  This book is perhaps the most real work I have ever read.  Every sense is catered to, every emotion played upon, every passion and horror felt with stunning truth.    I can think of no greater praise than to say this:  You will lose yourself in this book, completely.  And you certainly won't mind.	2005-02-12
US	51646210	R185JGEMLTJIJD	0312890176	219764161	Shadow & Claw: The First Half of 'The Book of the New Sun'	Books	2	20	43	N	Y	A great story in here somewhere, but runs out of steam	Gene Wolfe's acclaimed sci-fi/fantasy epic, The Book of the New Sun, is, despite the rave reviews it has received, a disappointment.   <br /> <br />Throughout the pages of the first book, I wanted to be drawn in.  There were engaging elements, some well crafted characters, and a fairly intriguing storyline (initially, that is). It was well-written and moved quickly. However, there are far too many aspects that detracted from my overall enjoyment of the book and, in the end, left me feeling empty. <br /> <br />Severian, the main character, feels the need to spout witty, insightful aphorisms every few paragraphs.  All to often these reflections come across as disjointed and horribly inappropriate.  Perhaps Wolfe meant for them to flesh out Severian's character, but these soliloquies do little except detract from the plot.  They flatten Severian's character entirely.  I'm sure the literary pundits enjoyed them, though.   <br /> <br />The majority of the characters are ridiculously cardboard.  Even Severian, who is intriguing at first, becomes banal and trite by the second book.  We want to care about Severian, but in the end we fail to empathize with him because we don't care about any of the other characters he interacts with, or the story which he is the center of.  The dialogue is ridiculously pedantic, and none of the characters ever seem to actually do anything of significance. <br /> <br />Incredibly archaic words are thrown around with no explanation whatsoever.  Words such as 'thaumaturge' and 'deodand' might have lent an elegant touch to the story had Wolfe bothered to elaborate on them.  He doesn't, of course, which leads to a trip to the dictionary every three minutes.  Not a good way to read a story. <br /> <br />The back story of this future-Earth is only alluded to.  It seems interesting, and most likely would have made a better story than the one Wolfe weaves.  Instead, the story behind the world is shunted off to the background and left largely unexplained--lending to the disjointed feel.  My unsatisfied interest in the background was always more powerful than my interest in Severian's farcical plot. <br /> <br />To top it all off, the plot goes nowhere.  Nowhere at all.  And the situations that arise are incredibly unbelievable.  Random encounters and innane actions by characters serve to move the plot along at a ponderous pace.  There are a multitude of inconsistencies and quirky moments that took me right out of the story. <br /> <br />So add one-dimensional characters to a mundane plot, mix in a fairly pedantic writing style and a confusing, disjointed atmosphere, and the story (which at first seems wonderfully engaging and interesting) becomes bogged down in its own machinations.  The first half of the first book really is amazing. Well-written, well crafted, and the characters have not had time to grow boring and stagnant.  But after that, things snowball quickly into a quagmire of circumlocutions and mindless characterization.  I had to force myself to finish the four books. <br /> <br />If you want to read something akin to what New Sun could have been (fresh characters, innovative plotting and environment, insightful and intriguing writing) try some Jack Vance or George R. R. Martin.	2005-01-30
US	51646210	R3MB3Y7ZC5YB04	1931081913	922023109	GRRM: A RRetrospective (Trade Hardcover)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Truly brilliant -- a must-read anthology	George R. R. Martin, recently acclaimed author of the epic fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire, revisits his past works in this massive compendium.   <br /> <br />Before bursting on to the popular scene with A Song of Ice and Fire, Martin had a well-respected career in sci-fi, fantasy, and horror--namely, short stories.  And his short stories are, in my opinion, the best I have ever read.  Raw human emotion and spirit are given life in the pages of his stories.  Never before has an author instilled in me such powerful emotion and passion.  Such is the strength of Martin's prose.   <br /> <br />Similar to A Song of Ice and Fire, Martin's stories transcend the boundaries of genres and cliches to become something truly timeless and worthy.  For readers already familiar with Martin's past, this book contains numerous never-before-seen stories and screenplays, as well as wonderfully entertaining asides by Martin himself. <br /> <br />And for those of you who have never read Martin beyond A Song of Ice and Fire, I promise you this: a vast wealth of wonder and awe and passion await you in the pages of this tome.  Dive in, and you will never be the same.	2005-01-30
US	51646210	R23K31MLTE3FK8	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An intimate, personal story of the Civil War	The Killer Angels, as championed in the Author's Note, tears down the barriers that sterile non-fiction accounts of the Civil War tend to create.  The reader is hurled into the raw, gritty world of the Civil War, where death and agony mingle with camaraderie and courage in the smoky air of battle.  Gone are the glossed-over descriptions of battles.  Gone are the disaffected, removed accounts of battle.  What remains, the psychological struggle of the fighting men, is presented in a pure, heart-wrenching manner.  We vividly feel the despair of Longstreet, the incredible weariness of Lee, the idealistic questioning of Chamberlain and Armistead as they fight and die in the greatest battle in American history.  We smell the gunpowder, see the glint of rifles in the sun, hear the shrieks of the wounded, and empathize with the moral plight of the combatants.  And, as the book closes, we no longer cheer blindly for the Union or curse the Confederacy; we simply lower our heads in respect and awe for the individual soldier who, regardless of allegiance, braved enemy fire and his own personal demons to do what he felt was right.	2005-01-17
US	51646210	RI8YC6UL282UA	0440184622	584625374	Tai-Pan (Asian Saga)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Historical fiction at its best	Tai-Pan is simply brilliant.  It has everything, and James Clavell presents the story in a fascinating, well-written manner.  The gritty history of the Victorian era is incredibly accurate and artfully portrayed.  Clavell takes us masterfully in to the world of 1840s Asia, and we lose ourselves in the bustling streets, the shouts of merchants, the roar of ships' cannon, and the bittersweet romance of the age.        The story itself, and the characters, are wonderful.  The reader instantly falls in love with the magnanimous, charismatic Dirk Struan.  We are taken along on his incredible, tragic life story, experiencing every one of his triumphs and failures in a grand journey of discovery and wonder.  His friends, his enemies, and his lovers populate the already colorful world with a seemingly infinite cast of vibrant, lively characters, each of who we cherish and care for deeply.         Struan's story, although it may sound trite, will keep you on the edge of your seat and riddle you with a whirlwind of emotions.  This is a story about humanity, pure and simple, and the things that we hold dear, even when we are lost in a strange, foreign land.	2005-01-17
US	51646210	R2Z6D23MCIZR3B	0141439661	569473707	Sense and Sensibility (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Still rings with truth	Sense and Sensibility is more than 200 years old.  The world was a dramatically different place in the early 1800s.  The culture was different, the language was different, the governments were different.  The entire state of mankind was completely different.<br /><br /> So the question is, does a 200 year old book still pack a punch in 2005?  Or has it become an archaic, dusty tome that alienates any reader with its unintelligable prose and mindless story?  The answer, I believe, is a little bit of both.<br /><br /> Clearly, the pre-Victorian writing style varies greatly from the Hemingway-esque brevity that is encountered so often in modern times.  Often, Austen's writing is confused and cluttered.  It can seem overly pedantic, trivial, and circumlocutious.  There are entire paragraphs that can, and should have been, omitted because they are utterly flippant and redundant.  The writing style was, for me, a barrier.<br /><br />The society in which the story unfolds; that is, the cultural background, is also quite distant from our own.  If anything, Sense and Sensibility is a study in history.  We see what life was like back then.  We hear it from a primary source.  And, for the most part, the petty pursuits of the luxurious upper-class, the countless balls and parties, and the mindless squabblings of money grubbing lords are fine.  The reader accepts it as part of the history.<br /><br />  The story itself is where the true beauty of the book is revealed.  The story is timeless.  It proves, refreshingly, that one does not need a massive war or wrenching poverty to create a good yarn.  Yes, Elinor and Marianne live ridiculously priveleged lives (and often complain about their \\"misfortune\\"), but we all can identify with the romantic aspects of the tale.  We can identify with the characters, the people, who inhabit Austen's world.  And the characters are, quite simply, incredibly colorful and richly created.  The characterization is where Austen shines.<br /><br />  Sothe main drawback to this story is its age.  If you can get past the age of the book or even enjoy it intellectually, you will uncover a gem of a novel.  Austen's subject (unlike her prose) does not alienate us at all.  Instead, it reacquaints us with the yearnings and struggles of love and friendship.  If you can slog through some of the more clunky passages, there is a lot of insight and beauty in this book, as well as a fairly good story.	2005-01-17
US	51646210	R1ZCPWMR87J902	0884046818	894828266	Battlefield Earth: A Saga of the Year 3000	Books	1	45	66	N	Y	A bloated monster of a novel	I feel guilty writing an abrasive review about a book that, in the first few pages, throws reams of praise and exaltation at the reader.  At the times when I felt like ripping the book apart, I would read those starry-eyed reviews and feel almost obligated to enjoy the book.  But I couldn't.  The characters (and their subsequent dialogue) are perhaps the most mundane, cardboard creations I have ever read in a work of literature.  The good guys are all flawless superhumans who go about smashing alien's faces in with ease.<br /><br />  Now, the first time this happens, it is not unwelcome.  The initial 400 or so pages of the book set up the story well, and really draw the reader in.  After all, the underlying concept for the story is fairly original and intriguing.  The humans, after thousands of years of oppression and ostracization, finally turn the tables on their alien oppressors.  Yay! Jubilation!  We look past the shallow characterization, cookie-cutter writing style, and mindless technology descriptions, seeing the core of the matter:  humanity, with its back to the wall, makes a final last stand and comes out victorious.<br /><br /> So 400 pages are enough to overshadow the fact that this book really is juvenile drivel.  Guess what? 650 pages left.  And this is where I started to really hate Hubbard's writing style, his egotistic introduction, and the glamorous praise that adorns the novel.  NOTHING believable or remotely interesting happens in the next 3/5's of the novel.  Perpetually omnipresent and omnipotent humans smash every obstacle in their way with no trouble at all.  Over-the-top alien invasions are rehashed again and again.  Two billion more stupid, cookie-cutter, mundane characters clog the story.  Ludicrous technologies are explained in middle-school, fallacious, shallow manners.  It is an ardurous, thankless slog through a wasteland of bad writing and nonexistent plot to the end.<br /><br /> L. Ron Hubbard, in his introduction, praises the \\"logic\\" and \\"realism\\" of science-fiction that makes it infinitely preferable to fantasy.  He champions that his style of writing and stories are the only worthy scifi out there.  By the end of the novel, he has contradicted every single one of his assertions, and ruined the integrity of the raving reviews of his book.  Battlefield Earth should have been a 400 page novel.  It would have been quite good.  Instead, it is a worthless, bloated monster of a novel that leaves the reader, upon finishing the book, feeling horribly empty.of science-fiction that makes it infinitely preferable to fantasy.  He champions that his style of writing and stories are the only worthy scifi out there.  By the end of the novel, he has contradicted every single one of his assertions, and ruined the integrity of the raving reviews of his book.  Battlefield Earth should have been a 400 page novel.  It would have been quite good.  Instead, it is a worthless, bloated monster of a novel that leaves the reader, upon finishing the book, feeling horribly empty.	2005-01-15
