US	51657625	R13D17X139TF9T	0975588109	201979975	Clearing Customs	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Curse you, Martha Egan--	because I didn't get very much accomplished after I picked up your book.<br /><br />You made me laugh, infuriated me, and once or twice, I confess, made me want to throw the d***ed book across the room. Why? Because you made me care about your characters, even some of the Bad Guys, by giving them a realistic roundness (literally, in Beverly's case) and detailing their plights and reactions to them without insulting my intelligence with cheap sentimentality.<br /><br />The injustice Egan writes about is chillingly possible--for all I know, this might well have happened to her, given her line of business. It's also even more relevant now than in the late 80s, when the book was set, given the quirks of our country's so-called War on Terror and the Patriot Act. But rather than merely wallow in the outrageousness of Customs' harrassment of importer Beverly Parmentier, Egan laces her story with a clever comic subtext worthy of her resourceful middle-aged protagonist (a joy in herself for those of us long-toothed readers who are getting bored with sweet young things and their Coming of Age tales).<br /><br />I've often argued with my literary-snob sons that one of the primary reasons I read is for entertainment. With its quick pacing and its quirky plausibility, I found Clearing Customs every bit as entertaining as those Paretsky and Hillerman books that Beverly devours. It ain't Shakespeare, but it's a smart novel that bristles with righteous indignation and culminates in a realistic, satisfying, you-GO-girl ending. Well done, Ms. Egan--thanks for the read.<br /><br />Susan O'Neill<br /><br />Author, Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2005-04-29
US	51657625	RKAYCB6PYJK84	1569472610	28852324	The Twins	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The crippling hold of the past	I received this book for Christmas from a young Dutch woman, who told me it was popular reading in Holland. It came at a time when I despaired that the American book market was ignoring us \\"mature\\" readers in their mad rush to publish works by the latest Hot Young Thing, endless tales of angst and coming-of-age in affluent America.<br /><br />The Twins was a refreshing change. It handles its themes--war and peace, the importance and destructiveness of both real and improvised families, and most of all, forgiveness--with a straightforward deftness that belies their weight. In the stories of its twins, old women orphaned and separated in their youth, it tells by flashback the larger tale of a divided Europe, where the personal and institutional horrors of WWII have left proud neighboring cultures hungry, even today, for rapprochment.<br /><br />The book's pace is leisurely, but builds nicely on the circumstances and personalities of its two main characters. It is history--not as a list of dry names, dates and military advances, but as a fleshed account of individual and collective circumstance and attitudes. It is a rich, well-written fictional portrait of the political become personal, with a message that rings true more these days than ever about the importance of letting go--not of the past, but of the crippling hold it can have over us, the grip that kills our ability to appreciate the human face behind our stereotypes.<br /><br />The Twins is an interesting, intelligent, lingering book that can be appreciated by both young and mature readers--the former, for its accounts of young love and idealism, the latter for its depth of experience. I'm glad it's been translated and published here, so American readers have the chance to enjoy its wisdom.<br /><br />Susan O'Neill, author: Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2005-01-19
US	51657625	R386JAF2PET0PG	0471327239	631407403	Even the Women Must Fight: Memories of War from North Vietnam	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Fascinating book; difficult truths	This book is a well-written and straightforward account of women who fought on the side of the North Vietnamese in the \\"American War,\\" and what happened to them when they attempted to return to peacetime life. Most of the stories come from the women themselves, and are reported in their words.<br /><br />I found the book particularly affecting, because it presented some difficult truths for me as a nurse on the American side. It is always revealing to know your enemy; in my case, the supposed enemy in this book could be my mirror image. And if the similarities are fascinating, the differences are wrenching: these women fought on their own soil, to protect it from soldiers from half a world away who, for reasons that were far from clear, dropped bombs and chemicals on them. When the war was over, and I went home to marry and raise a family, these women found that their service had, in many cases, made it impossible for them to marry and have children--a cultural imperative that in large part determined their worth in the eyes of their country. Certainly, the war created physical and psychological problems for women who served on the US side--PTSD, birth defects in children due to chemical exposure, and a raft of health conditions that still persist for us in our fifties and sixties. But for the Vietnamese women warriors, the effects were far more direct. They lived, and still live, on soil salted with Agent Orange. Most of them suffered from malaria. They lost potential mates in the war, or by leaving them behind when they went to serve--not for one year, as was our case, but for many. They faced the very immediate possibility that their children, if they could have them, would be severely deformed. And there has been little enough social support under their new government for THEM, let alone their handicapped children.<br /><br />The women in this book are fascinating individuals shaped by their unique experiences, and Turner and Hao do an excellent job of interviewing and presenting them. They are brave, resilient survivors of a war they should never have had to fight, and they are still fighting for their place in the country they defended. *Even the Women Must Fight* ranks with such classics as *When Heaven and Earth Changed Places* and *The Sorrow of War* as an unflinching and empathic window into the damage war wreaks on the land where it is fought and the people there who fight it.<br /><br />Susan O'Neill, author<br /><br />Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Namterviewing and presenting them. They are brave, resilient survivors of a war they should never have had to fight, and they are still fighting for their place in the country they defended. *Even the Women Must Fight* ranks with such classics as *When Heaven and Earth Changed Places* and *The Sorrow of War* as an unflinching and empathic window into the damage war wreaks on the land where it is fought and the people there who fight it. <br /> <br />Susan O'Neill, author <br />Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2004-12-30
US	51657625	RKIR41XD88I6T	1587151189	375944313	Wind Over Heaven	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Fine writing that rises above classification	After I read this book, I thought, Man--I certainly got my money's worth. I don't tend to review books I can't give five stars, but this one...I'd love to give it six. So much imagination in such a slim volume. And it doesn't so much defy classification as rise above it. Yes, there are stories here that might be shoehorned into Science Fiction--like Vox Domini or On Top. And yes, the Horror genre might loosely describe An Eye for Acquisitions and perhaps The Apple Golem. But none of these stories fit comfortably into boxes--they slip out, winking at us, creeping over borders, scattering little seeds of fear, astonishment, wisdom, wry humor. Even the Magic Realism label doesn't do them justice.<br /><br /> Bruce Holland Rogers is a terrific writer. These stories stick with me; they make me think; and some of them are simply great fun. Read his stuff; this book is a bargain.<br /><br /> Susan O'Neill, author, Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2004-07-29
US	51657625	R3U3NTBYB0H0P1	0689863330	129280614	The Flame Tree	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Read this book; have your children read this book. Discuss.	When Isaac Williams, the 12-year-old son of missionary doctors in Indonesia, experiences an uprising in the small Muslim town he calls home, the divide between Muslim and Infidel becomes personal and quite literally painful. Everything he takes for granted--his family's security, his trust in the people he has lived with for so long, his concept of God, and his bantering, effortless relationship with his best friend--falls apart. As the plot moves through its frank and sometimes horrifying turns, Isaac learns that evil can wear many masks and good might lie in the most startling of places.<br /><br />This is a very, very timely book, and its message in these days of grave cultural divide is vital. The story is a page-turner; it's enormously thought-provoking, and Lewis doesn't let us off the hook easily. He deals with complexities broad and personal, themes of doing bad in the name of good, of humanity and religion, of allegiances, friendship, cruelty and wisdom. His prose is adept, his characters human and believable. And despite the weight of its subject--or because of it--it's a terrific read.<br /><br />If I were to design a curriculum for human understanding in our new century, mandatory for high-school children of all creeds, it would begin with this book and The River Runs Salt, Runs Sweet, by Jasmina Dervisevic-Cesic. I would encourage parents to read The Flame Tree, pass it to their children, and spend some very valuable time discussing it.<br /><br />Susan O'Neill, author, Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2004-07-29
US	51657625	R14E7JZC57EDDU	0970421036	421687296	The River Runs Salt, Runs Sweet: A Memoir of Visegrad, Bosnia	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A clear-eyed look at the worst, and best, of human nature	&quot;How do we suvive the things that happen to us, these horrible things? By taking this moment, and then the next one, one at a time. By telling our truth without being broken to pieces by the difference between what our lives once were and what they had become.&quot;<br />--from &quot;The River Runs Salt, Runs Sweet&quot;<br />This memoir of a Bosnian girl who comes of age during the disintegration of Yugoslavia is a fascinating story but, even more, it is an important piece of literature, in the tradition of Anne Frank: Diary of a Young Girl, and When Heaven and Earth Changed Places. The telling is simple and straightforward, but the messages, like the war itself, are complex. Through Jasmina's eyes, we see not only the loss and horror of war, but we feel the spirit of cooperation fostered by it, and the live-in-the-moment adrenaline rush. We watch children who grew up as friends turn away from each other to take sides based on hostilities perpetrated long before they were born. We view both the Serbs and the UN peacekeeping forces as obstacles in a very real human &quot;video game.&quot; We see the frustration of those who must deal with unnecessary bureaucracy in order to secure necessary help and care. We witness wartime medical care at its most barbaric, and are given rare insight into the human ability to survive.<br />The River Runs Salt, Runs Sweet is an excellent depiction of an ordinary life blown apart by political and cultural violence. We in the US can talk political theory and debate the merits of waging war while we relax, clean, warm and well-fed, in front of the TV, at a safe distance from the consequences of what governments actually do. But only those who live the disruption, confusion and destruction, the great discomfort and crushing losses and, yes, the fierce comradery, know what war really is. Jasmina Dervisevic-Cesic gives us a gift of first-hand witness; she re-lives her experience on paper here for us with enormous bravery, a measure of anger, and a river of hard-won wisdom. This is history at ground level, immediate and affecting. It is a clear-eyed look into the worst, and the best, of human nature. Teenagers will relate to it because of the youth of the narrator, but readers of all ages will gain a fresh, insider perspective into the surprisingly familiar culture and baffling political morass that was the dying Yugoslavia. Jasmina tells her truth with skill; we stand to gain much, on a human scale, by listening.<br />Susan O'Neill<br />Author<br />Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Namf anger, and a river of hard-won wisdom. This is history at ground level, immediate and affecting. It is a clear-eyed look into the worst, and the best, of human nature. Teenagers will relate to it because of the youth of the narrator, but readers of all ages will gain a fresh, insider perspective into the surprisingly familiar culture and baffling political morass that was the dying Yugoslavia. Jasmina tells her truth with skill; we stand to gain much, on a human scale, by listening.<br />Susan O'Neill<BR>Author<br />Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2004-05-30
US	51657625	RAM2F10MJK0CD	1558492984	59628298	Home before Morning: The Story of an Army Nurse in Vietnam	Books	5	109	111	N	N	In spite of what some have said, this is the way it was	After reading a number of unnecessarily harsh and, from my point of view, patently untrue \\"reviews\\" that disparage this book and its author, I feel obliged to weigh in. I am a Viet Nam nurse vet; when I first read this book several years ago, I was amazed by its honesty and heartened that a sister-in-arms had been brave enough to tell it like it was. I cannot speak to the precise details in Van Devanter's fine and harrowing account of her life before, during and after Viet Nam, but I can say that her experiences during her service ring entirely true to me. I have heard her reputation slandered before, and have wondered why the denegration was so vehement and so personal. Do those who defend their greatly-amended version of our reputation as Viet Nam nurses by tearing down this excellent book feel that we must, for some reason, be portrayed as angels to the world at large? Such a picture would be as false as denouncing us as [prostitute]. We were human beings, with all the fine and base characteristics that entailed. We were young women--most of us still in that amorphous hormonal classification of \\"late adolescence.\\" We lived on adrenalin and bad food, experienced heartbreak daily, dealt with entirely too many  males, and did a mind-boggling body of work to the best of our abilities in spite of the pain, frustration, sexism and distraction. \\"Home Before Morning\\" is the grandmother of female Viet Nam accounts, an important piece of literature, a first-of-its-kind window on the Viet Nam war. It is well-written and evocative, and its author--who certainly must now have earned the peace she found so elusive in this life--deserves our profound respect for publishing it at a time when she must have realized it would draw criticism from those who find such raw truths threatening.<br />As a writer of fiction that draws on my experiences in Viet Nam, I owe Lynda Van Devanter a great debt. The first among us, she whacked through the jungle of criticism, took the heat, and secured the road for the acceptance of a woman's unique view of what is, by nature, a testosterone-charged world. She deserves a medal, posthumous though it would now be, for grace under fire.<br />Susan O'Neill, Army nurse-vet and author: Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam.ured the road for the acceptance of a woman's unique view of what is, by nature, a testosterone-charged world. She deserves a medal, posthumous though it would now be, for grace under fire.<br />Susan O'Neill, Army nurse-vet and author: Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam.	2004-05-11
US	51657625	RDSF2BPF8TTL9	0393322858	367329718	A Servant's Tale: A Novel (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A beautifully textured character study	Luisa Sanchez is a tropical flower, born of a Spanish island nobleman and a peasant servant, who as a young girl is uprooted and replanted in a succession of dreary apartments in New York City's Spanish Harlem. She in turn takes up the servant's life, moving from observant, opinionated child to a stoic onlooker whose pragmatic eye registers every detail of her employers' lives. She is less acute in self-knowledge; even as she stands apart from those for whom she works, she stands apart from her own emotional center, reporting in measured tones her own surprise at the riptides in her life that stir and thwart her, the people who slip past her defenses to touch her more deeply than a husband or a lover.<br />A Servant's Tale is a fascinating, beautifully-textured character study of a difficult woman, who has trained herself to be invisible and outwardly tractable but maintains an inner dignity that will not allow her, ultimately, to run from herself. There are no car chases or earth-shattering events here; Luisa has no time for the upheaval of the 40s, the politics of the 50s, the 60s' &quot;revolution&quot; or the sea changes of the years after. She keeps on keeping on, doing what she must to hold together her life and that of her son Charlie, the one person she loves deeply, simply; the one person who can cause her soul-crushing pain.<br />It is Fox's writing that makes all the difference, breathing life into her characters and their neuroses and sometimes psychoses. She made me care about Luisa's world, about her peculiar morality, her stubborn privacy, her dogged instinct to survive and, ultimately, that lightening-rod of practical intelligence, bound up and obscured beneath all those years of servitude, that I expect to see her through the years beyond the last page.<br />This is, in my opinion, an excellent book. It's a quiet book, and the small print makes it significantly denser than its 321 pages would imply, but the strength of its prose and images and the unique view from inside of this woman who can be as much of a mystery to herself as she is to her employers kept me interested, and made me resent the intrusions of my own life that forced me, all too many times, to put it down. It's the first of Fox's books I've ever read, and it won't be the last.<br />Susan O'Neill<br />Author, Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Namunique view from inside of this woman who can be as much of a mystery to herself as she is to her employers kept me interested, and made me resent the intrusions of my own life that forced me, all too many times, to put it down. It's the first of Fox's books I've ever read, and it won't be the last.<br />Susan O'Neill<BR>Author, Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2004-01-12
US	51657625	RC0F6TBXIIN1O	1565123875	765418048	Purple Hibiscus	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Utterly believable; precise sense of place and character	Young Kambili's father is a presence in his Nigerian community. He is larger than life--a physically big, economically powerful man who raised himself from nothing to preside over factories and the only newspaper in the country brave enough to trumpet the corruption of the latest government. He is a godly man, a man who prays so long before a meal that the food becomes cold, a benefactor whose generosity has made his local Catholic church a thing of beauty and prosperity. He inspires awe in many, and outright worship in more than a few.<br />And so, how can his family--his teenaged daughter, her brother Jaja and her mother--not love him? How can they complain when his fervor to keep them all righteous and spotless in God's eyes tips into rigidity and, ultimately, into violence?<br />Purple Hibiscus explores, through the eyes of its young protagonist, the dicotomy of life with a Great Man who is a dictator to his own family. The situations and the characters are utterly believable; even the scenes that made me flinch were so beautifully written that I could not dismiss the complex glue that held this family together--the economic dependence, the paternalism, the order that flies in the face of the country's chaos, and, yes, the love that can't believe that things will only get worse.<br />This could be a grim tale, but the complexity of the characters, the candor of the narrator and the beautifully precise sense of place raise it above its painful subject matter. The family also serves as a microcosm of the country: in spite of the power games of an inept government, the paranoia, contradictions, and lingering taint of colonialism, the broken promises across the board--be it the diversion of fuel or non-payment of state salaries--in this book Nigeria's citizens, like the family members, only run when they have no choice. And in both cases, they do so with a sense of betrayal, a wounded love.<br />A simply written, complicated book.<br />Susan O'Neill, author, Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Namt Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2003-12-19
US	51657625	R20SV5QQKU1U92	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Number One Heroine; Fascinating Setting	This is an unpretentious book, in size and scope, but its entertainment value is immense. There are no car chases or shoot-outs; no great earth-shattering truths are revealed. The heroine, Smith's &quot;Number One Lady Detective,&quot; is in fact Batswana's ONLY lady detective. But she and those she deals with in her brand-new profession--her friends, clients and victims--were enough to keep me turning the pages. Precious Ramotswe is a delight. She is plump, shrewd and opinionated, as at home in her village and her country as Tony Hillerman's Jim Chee is on his reservation. She solves her little mysteries with a logic, dogged resourcefulness and sense of humor that are quietly brilliant. Smith's prose is well-crafted, spare and subtle; he doesn't beat a reader over the head with Africa and its history, but lets us witness both the uniqueness and the universality of Precious' small-town, open-country world through her very human eyes. I'm hooked; I'm looking forward to reading the rest of the series.<br />Susan O'Neill, Author: Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2003-12-11
US	51657625	R3QEOA9RWG9RCY	0452271681	175705218	When Heaven and Earth Changed Places (Tie-In Edition)	Books	5	61	65	N	N	Necessary empathy	When Heaven and Earth Changed Places is an extremely important book, particularly for those of us who have grown up and spent our lives in the USA, because it gives us something vital that we lack--the experience of living in a country where war is waged. Our world grows smaller every day, and whatever our government does elsewhere ultimately comes home to roost. This is in part because refugees like Ms. Hayslip, who wash up on our shores, become part of the fabric of our country; both the damage they suffer and the truimph they attain become part of the collective &quot;ours.&quot; We can no longer afford to operate without empathy; those we kill are our neighbors, or at the very least, our neighbors' cousins. And so, this book is both important and timely.<br />'When Heaven and Earth Changed Places' is the autobiography of a woman who survives by wits, guts and  sheer endurance the horrors of war and occupation--and, later, the horrors of emmigration to a bizarre new world and marriage to a different kind of war victim. It provides a rare and articulate window into the mind and heart of someone who was made to play, by circumstance, both ally and enemy. It should be mandatory reading for anyone trying to understand the Viet Nam war (or, as the Vietnamese more correctly call it, the American War), but it's far from some dry and bitter medicine that must be consumed with a pinch of the nostrils. It's an exciting story, extremely readable--a tale that is frightening, harrowing and, ultimately, heartening. The movie was decent, but the book is much better.<br />Susan O'Neill, Viet Nam Veteran and author, Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2003-09-17
US	51657625	R8T07S5XGRCPY	1573225436	266050518	The Sorrow of War: A Novel of North Vietnam	Books	5	37	42	N	N	We have met the enemy, and he is us	Those of us who spent time 'in-country' during the conflict in Viet Nam know that American soldiers were taught, subtly if not overtly, that their enemy was something less than human. Demonizing the enemy--thinking of them as 'gooks,' 'slants,' as 'them' to our 'us'--is a standard wartime practice; it's far easier to fight those you consider less than your equal.<br />This book is clear evidence of the magnitude of this lie. Here, we meet the enemy and--as the wise old 'possom Pogo once said--he is us.<br />In 'The Sorrow of War,' Bao Ninh, a former NVA soldier, walks us through the life our enemy--detailing in precise, unassuming prose his daily life; his emotions, attitudes, causes, and feelings for those close to him and, of course, his enemy. It is a story that could, in many respects, have been written by a US soldier, except that it has a local feel, the rooted viewpoint of one who fights on the land where he lives. The language is poetic and the images sharp; it is a narrative full of a universal weariness, wisdom, experience and pain.<br />This is a must-read piece of literature for anyone trying to understand the Viet Nam conflict (which the Vietnamese call the American War), or war in general, in depth. It is at times slow going, but ultimately well worth the effort.<br />Susan O'Neill, Viet Nam veteran and author of Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2003-09-17
US	51657625	R3F9EK5UIA4O2K	089594605X	761514000	Secrets of a Jewish Baker: Authentic Jewish Rye and Other Breads	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	My bread-making bible	I've been making bread for more than 30 years. This book has taught me more about the art than any I used before it. The recipes are excellent (although, be advised, there is a misprint in the Buttermilk Bread recipe--use the proportions set forth in the &quot;bread machine&quot; version, because the standard one doesn't give the right amount of buttermilk), and the advice is absolutely stellar. My breads always tasted just fine--it's hard to make a bad home-made bread--but it took this book to actually make them look professional. Great gift for anybody who cooks, even if they've been breadmakers for years.<br />Susan O'Neill<br />Author, Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2003-07-28
US	51657625	R39TOP71GFB9LR	0786868589	607919984	Theater of the Stars: A Novel of Physics and Memory	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Worth reading twice	This is a beautifully and economically written, minutely-researched, thoroughly engaging, disquieting novel that illustrates how human intentions and motivations become nearly irrelevant in the march of both public and personal history. Set in present-day Paris, it flashes back into the strange, nerdish world of nuclear research that led, ultimately, to the bombing of Hiroshima. It stretches into astrology, dabbles in human treachery and touches upon our human eagerness to judge others by culture and creed. It picks through memory, showing the reader a reality that the characters themselves can never fully see even as they live it.<br />All these big themes in fewer than 300 pages, in which a woman searches for the truth about her unknown father as her mother lies dying.<br />I ordered this book because I loved &quot;In the Company of Angels&quot;--so much that I've sent it out to just about everybody I know. This novel is quite different in form and content from its predecessor, which relied heavily on magical realism, but it is no less masterful. But in both books, Kelby's ability to put life into perspective through her writing--the talent to show the proverbial &quot;universe in a drop of water&quot;--is phenomenal.<br />&quot;Theater of the Stars&quot; had me turning pages and staying up late; I was far from disappointed in the ending, but I was definitely disappointed that it had to end so soon. I seldom read a book twice, but I've already started on my second time through. There's so much here.<br />Susan O'Neill, Author, Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2003-07-28
US	51657625	R2VHQO3OQL5F1X	1902881478	162682246	The Dance of Geometry	Books	5	2	3	N	N	History and mystery	I really enjoyed this book. I had expected a standard-format novel about Vermeer and his life. Instead, I was delighted to find a triple reflection on the history and mystery of one of Vermeer's works, The Music Lesson.<br />In the first part, Howell lays down a biographical scenario of the artist's early life--told in a measured voice that is slightly aloof, prone to dreamy fascinations and distractions. It is a voice that could come from the artist, even as it describes the youth who walks with a characteristic slow tread through a word of light, texture and composition. Through his observations, the elements of the painting are arranged and noted but not executed; it is like the treatment of the canvas, the preparation of the pigments, the rough sketch of the concept.<br />Howell then shifts perspective to the peculiar artistic and scientific period that shaped the painting. This is exposed in a journal entry by a French nobleman who has met the artist in his native Delft and viewed his works, and who witnessed the secret behind the mysterious fate of the painting's young and beautiful subject.<br />Then, a third shift: the writer jumps ahead in time to the 1980s, to the further adventures of the painting, and the life of girl it features. This is told in the voice of an artist who copies the masterpiece for an art thief.<br />Ultimately, the story very briefly returns to Vermeer, to his voice and his own final grace note on the painting and the woman captured in it.<br />The book is well-written; it moves along nicely, and the perspective shift is beautifully done. Furthermore, with its geometrically augmented cover photo of The Music Lesson, it is, physically, an unusually pleasing little volume.<br />Susan O'Neill<br />Author<br />Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam<br />(Ballantine 2001/Black Swan 2002)	2003-05-09
US	51657625	R2KEM5AVEQ6TCA	1881515516	720703494	Marconi's Dream: And Other Stories	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Turning up treasure in the most ordinary places	This book is a jewel box of real human characters, with real human emotions and hang-ups, joys and limitations. Leslie chronicles beautifully the not-so-simple lives of men and women in scruffy towns, people who find their meaning in such mundane pursuits as scavenging for treasures in trash left at the curbside or in the newly-dug furrows of a farmer's field. Like them, he uncovers uniqueness in the most ordinary places, in the days, thoughts and actions of his characters. He has a marvelous eye for the quirky--a display case of time-worn chewing gum sculptures, a warehouse full of famous pickled brains, a man who disconcerts a young woman by perching naked on the hood of her car--blending these bizarre details into the everyday ebb and flow of life in settings where, as one of his characters says, \\"nothing has ever happened.\\" The characters might be odd; they might paper a town with posters to assuage their grief or spin a radio dial to find the universe's lost voices or try to channel Houdini's spirit on Halloween, but each one is utterly believable.<br />Read these stories, and you recognize the restlessness we all feel living inside our too-earthbound skins. I myself enjoyed the hell out of them, both for their reality and their loopy but somehow plausible magic. They are small, pragmatic, touched by humor that is at times delightfully outrageous, and a wonderful read.<br />Susan O'Neill<br />Author, Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2003-04-10
US	51657625	R1IBTH4SYRT35V	1900850729	574266389	A River in May	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Fine writing; a solid sense of story	In A River in May, young Special Forces Lieutenant Francis Lopez, adopted from Mexico by a tragedy-stalked aristocratic family and schooled in France, flees his personal ghosts by going to Viet Nam. His life with a handful of US soldiers in a mountain basecamp, commanded by a captain who is unnaturally obsessed with the destruction of a rag-tag nearby village, supported by South Vietnamese troops who disappear when there are rumors of attack, is surrealistically harrowing; his ultimate attempt at redemption is even more so.<br />This is not beach reading, by any means. It's affecting stuff, graphic, by turns blackly humorous and horrifically sad. But this makes it well worth the read--and the ending had me turning pages late at night.<br />Author Edward Wilson, a Viet Nam veteran who served with the Special Forces, paints a setting so real you can feel the rats nibbling at your fingernails; his characters are living, breathing, bleeding, three-dimensional human beings, quirks, egos and all. And his war is the real thing--a cesspool of chaos and psychopathology, a logistical Catch-22 where idealism is near kin to cynicism, corruption is rewarded, betrayal is an everyday inconvenience, and the cruel play sadistic games unhampered and uncondemned.  It is a world where the lucky survive, and come home to wonder what luck really is.<br />We live in a nervous, armed-to-the-teeth world where it is vital, I believe, to demystify war, to rethink heroism and question the wisdom of sending children to die in the service of political whimsy. A River in May does all this, with fine writing and a solid sense of story. It deserves to be on the shelf next to Tim O'Brien's books, and it should be required reading for anyone who votes.<br />Susan O'Neill....	2003-03-07
US	51657625	R1MW36QGUKVCGT	1888033002	724656127	War songs: Metaphors in clay and poetry from the Vietnam experience	Books	5	53	56	N	Y	Simple, elegant, heartbreaking	I've started this review a half-dozen times. It's not easy to write about this book. It wasn't easy to read it; I opened it, put it down, picked at a poem here and there, steeled myself and read it all. And read it again. It brought back memories, yes; it put me *there*--in the heat, in the &quot;mild wind,&quot; at a bedside where an IV runs into the body of a boy who has died, so the man next to him does not lose hope. It broke my heart.<br />But damned if I didn't read it again.<br />War Songs is a simple, elegant little volume of twenty poems--simply, elegantly written poems. There are fine black and white pictures of pottery interspersed throughout--vessels crafted by Stephen Freedman with the words of Harp's poems carved or painted on them.<br />But there is so much more.<br />Grady Harp was an intern at the LA County Hospital in 1968 when he was dropped, almost literally, into the thick of the Viet Nam conflict as a Battalion Surgeon. He was not formally prepared for what war does to those who fight it; no one ever is. This slender book is a report from the front, a doctor's memoir. Harp himself refers to it as a &quot;survival kit.&quot; It is a distillation of his horror, fear, anger, grief and despair.<br />Yet, these poems are so well written that they neither cry nor shout; rather, they condense and crystalizes small but important pieces of Harp's experience. The reader is left to walk around, observe, come closer, touch. Each poem is brief, a small collection of words, but words so aptly chosen that the scene they present is rich, three-dimensional, and gut-wrenchingly clear.<br />In short, these poems are excellent. They are written without a spare word; they paint harrowing pictures; they have an impact. They made me cry. They are real, and they tell it like it is. This book is a thing of painful beauty.<br />Susan O'Neill<br />Author<br />Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2003-02-19
US	51657625	R18GBBPHU4XM8J	1573228729	4143821	Pastoralia	Books	5	39	41	N	N	Looking for happiness in all the usual, wrong places	The first story in this book, the title story, grabbed me immediately. I laughed aloud, delighted at the inventiveness of Saunders' depiction of the corporate culture, as seen through the eyes of a poor working stiff in the pre-historic-land exhibit of a theme park. And really, be it a cubicle or a cave, corporate jargon or grunts and gestures, the author reinforces a universal truth: we are a flawed species, and when pressed, we default to some very strange, very typical behavior. His characters are both bizarre and entirely recognizable: so many hapless, imperfect souls stuck in an even more imperfect world, trying to find happiness in spite of themselves--even, in one case, in spite of being dead. As Pogo was known to say, &quot;We have met the enemy, and he is us.&quot; Saunders' sense of humor elevates our mundane dance with discontent to a charming, hilarious, sad, familiar but refreshing jig.<br />Susan O'Neill<br />Author: Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam<br />(Ballantine Books, 2001)	2003-02-05
US	51657625	R1NJ6NL2YNK96E	0312965966	203999838	Denial	Books	5	18	23	N	Y	Deliciously flawed characters	Ten pages into Denial, I hastily emailed a friend of mine who's a big fan of Hardboiled mysteries and told him, \\"Have I got an author for you!\\" This is believably seamy stuff, quickly paced, smart and scary, filled with deliciously flawed characters. Ablow doesn't even place his protagonist above the fray: Frank Clevenger is a forensic psychiatrist with severe addiction issues--including coke, women other than his partner, and twisted psyches. There is not a character in this book who is free of quirks and tics, and it is from this pallette of dark human vagary that the story draws its power and its very plot.<br />As one who lives in Eastern Massachusetts, I was taken by Ablow's adept use of local geography. Clevenger lives in one of those big houses in coastal Marblehead that require two doctors to support a mortgage; he works and plays, if such a word can cover his particular recreations, in his rag-tag hometown of \\"Lynn, Lynn, City of Sin,\\" and in equally gritty Chelsea. The duality fits the man, an abused blue-collar boy beneath a professional veneer.<br />With its sex, blood and lines of white powder, this book is not for everyone. But for those who like their mystery dark and their humanity imperfect, it's a real find.<br />Susan O'Neill<br />Author: Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2003-01-13
US	51657625	R2A0REUQ8YDZAV	0812544447	502453177	The Guardian	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A true page-turner	I took this book with me on vacation, and was dismayed because I couldn't make it last the week. But I had to keep reading; Eidson kept the prose moving and the surprises coming, and because certain events warned me that this was not some stock happily-ever-after Crime Light, I was driven to see how it turned out. This book is intelligently written, hard to second-guess. The violence, both psychological and physical, is scarily realistic, and the characters are well drawn.  Eidson deserves a nice, plump best-seller to help raise this one back from the out-of-print graveyard.<br />Susan O'Neill<br />Author: Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2003-01-05
US	51657625	R1QTO0LJMMURAR	0966574206	922032526	The Arbitrary Sword	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Fascinating, compelling, horrible and redeeming	\\"The Arbitrary Sword\\" details 24 years in the life of an Armenian family in Ottoman Turkey at the turn of the 20th century.  Through the eyes of the resourceful young Victoria, we learn of the joys and hardships of a hard-working farm family, and their trials under the oppression of a government that despises them--and ultimately inflicts upon them and their fellow citizens one of the era's most horrendously effective premeditated programs of mass murder.<br />Goshgarian has done her homework well, and her characters are both believable and likable. The story she tells is by turns fascinating, compelling, horrible and redeeming. It is also educational: the genocide perpetrated against Armenians by the Turks during and after WWI is not as widely studied, at least in the US, as it should be.<br />The book is not without its flaws, most of which could have been avoided by better editing. The first half might have moved more quickly with some strategic trimming and tightening, and there are some technical no-nos--ranging from references to the \\"Straights of Dardanelles\\" (later corrected to \\"Straits\\") to comma misplacements--that I found distracting. And although some mention is made of Turkish and Kurdish citizens who might have been sympathetic, there are none included, which made me wonder if they did indeed exist.<br />However, as it picks up pace and power, the story overrides these relatively minor annoyances--especially in the second half of the book, when I found myself staying up past my bedtime to turn the pages. Thank you, Ms. Goshgarian, for filling a blatant gap in my knowledge of history. I hope your book is widely read and enthusiastically received, and above all, that we draw from it another much-needed lesson about the deadly folly of dehumanizing our fellow man.<br />Susan O'Neill, Author<br />Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2002-12-05
US	51657625	RK0CKME7BRC9F	0887483798	253631883	Slow Monkeys and Other Stories	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Wow.	Wow. This is a terrific collection of stories, set mostly in Maine, about ordinary human beings--who just might be the slowest monkeys in the kingdom, weighed down as we are by ennui, circumstance and our own foibles.<br />Nichols' writing, in terms of mechanics, is perfect for short fiction. There's not an unnecessary word: each character is drawn subtly, economically and realistically. But the real impact, the real delight of each story and, ultimately, the book as a whole, is its spirit: he makes the reader care. It's not just that he takes you inside his narrators--eight of the eleven stories are told in first person--but that you *know* the people he writes about, and yet can still be surprised by them. Their scars and shortcomings are familiar to a fault, and the logic behind their misdeads is dead-on. They are our neighbors, our family, us. He treats them kindly, with a simple equinimity you'd like to see from your own god.<br />The stories are easy to read, but they stick with you. And even the most poignant among them--the title piece, with its eager young would-be writer collecting tales among the down-and-outers at a Florida Salvation Army shelter;  &quot;C'est la Vie,&quot; whose young protagonist has been derailed from a promising college football career by a stroke of bad luck; and &quot;Magic,&quot; about a haunted, depressive trailer park magician--are touched by a peculiarly human cockeyed hopefulness.<br />&quot;Slow Monkeys and Other Stories&quot; reminded me of Raymond Carver, with warmer bodies and smoother prose. Kudos to Jim Nichols for producing a gem of a collection; it deserves to fly off the shelves.<br />Susan O'Neill, Author<br />Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2002-11-23
US	51657625	R1AOTSQ7N73SWW	097227930X	50153005	The Carrington Monologues	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A tart, surprising character	In this small and tastefully-bound paperback, Terri Brown-Davidson has brought to vivid life the British painter Dora Carrington (1893-1932). Brown-Davidson's poetry is gritty and readable, the work arranged in monologues in Dora's voice. And what a subject Carrington makes: a self-described \\"frigid\\" artist who shares her bed with two or three men while truly loving only one, the writer Lytton Strachey, who--although he lives with her--happens to be homosexual. A tart, surprising woman born well before her time, Dora muses on such subjects as the damage wrought by her mother's obsessive-compulsive nature, her own lack of maternal instinct and of sexual desire (and how men are slaves to sex), her alienation in a community where she is viewed as a promiscuous oddball, and the death of her true love. It's a beautifully-written book about a refreshingly off-kilter character, well worth the read.<br />Susan O'Neill...	2002-11-01
US	51657625	R3TBGZ2S1L0KCQ	1930252986	79132223	Puppet Child	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Beware: Not easy to put down	I took this book with me on vacation. I had planned to spend my time walking the beach, swimming and body-surfing; instead, I sat on a lounge chair with my face buried in Puppet Child. It is one very difficult book to put down. The urgency of the story and the depths of the injustice it profiles are compelling. I found some of the coincidences a bit too easy, but the story and its treatment easily overrode this minor complaint.<br />Although the subject matter--child abuse, and the subsequent abuse of the mother by the social services and courts--is grim, the writing in the book is hopeful, and the story leans heavily on the wonder of positive relationships. I found that I was not left depressed, but indignant--and eager to speak out against all that is wrong in our skewed justice system.<br />I live in a state where, not long ago, a judge chided a battered woman for whining about her fate and returned her to her spouse; shortly thereafter, she was murdered. The sort of things depicted in Puppet Child do happen--repeatedly.  Kudos to Carner for having the courage to write so compellingly about judicial injustice, and for infuriating us that it exists.<br />Susan O'Neill<br />Author: Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2002-09-29
US	51657625	R9ASBY10V7G3O	1560233818	676107824	This Thing Called Courage: South Boston Stories	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Not just a genre collection	This is a fine book; it deserves to reach beyond the \\"gay literature\\" genre, to tap a wide, general audience. The stories are full of pain, adolescent yearning, surprises, what-ifs, and--in one case--the best description of a sudden fear of heights that I've ever read. You don't have to be gay to understand, empathize and enjoy it. You don't even have to be Irish, Catholic, from South Boston, or any combination of the three--although that might make the experience even more poignant. This is human fiction, well-written, vivid, relevant to anybody who's ever been young, who has felt--rightly or wrongly--like an outsider, who has stared into the abyss that must be crossed to change his or her life...and hesitated.<br />These stories are full of terrific characters--from a young man with a horrific secret that makes him quite literally (and convincingly) crazy, to a little girl who creates a uniquely Catholic method for protecting those she loves. There's even a fairy tale. Hayes breathes life into his \\"imaginary friends\\"; he made me believe in them so completely--and worry about them so much--that I had a terrible time putting the damned book down.<br />Susan O'Neill, author: Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam.	2002-09-28
US	51657625	R2PN26WVNM355V	1581248105	840293090	As My Sparks Fly Upward	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fine work from a promising newcomer	In this first collection by Canadian Matthew St. Amand, the stories are small, nicely drawn and thought-provoking. His young Everymen grapple with familiar bits of life--first love and regret; homesickness; opportunities taken or lost; the consequences of youthful missteps; fame attained, or glimpsed on a gate--and he endows the pieces with subtle, skillful twists that render them unique. His writing is straightforward, but he can turn a phrase with the best of them (&quot;...the school, it seems more like a tomb. Not exactly a tomb, but a place of waiting; a place for ghosts. Waiting for the doors to be flung open and someone to shout, 'I remember! I remember it all!' ...I can almost see Jessica and Jamie and me--our nine-year-old selves--and our classmates gathered beyond the windows, staring, hands outstretched toward the moonlight, toward the stars: those glowing pinpricks of experience, memory.&quot;).<br />My only problem with this book is that the publisher might have done a better job of copy editing. There are a handful of typos, and they can be jarring to grammar nuts like me. Shame on The Fiction Works--St. Amand's work deserves a more conscientious job.<br />Susan O'Neill, Author: Don't Mean Nothing: Short stories of Viet Nam.	2002-09-09
US	51657625	R1YG9HE3VHP55V	1894663195	221354248	Late Capitalist Sublime	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	New voice in the tradition of the Beats	Don't be mislead by the size of the book; this slender volume is heavy with words, dense with images. These poems by rYAN kAMSTRA evoke the poetry the Beats might have written, if Ferlinghetti and Ginsberg had lived in the even more screwed-up era of zombie-pocked skyscrapers, rapacious office machines and \\"dark nuclear morning\\" that is this, our new century. Don't look for precious rhymes or easy sentiment: kAMSTRA can be obscure; he rants; he twists the most commonplace of scenes into devastation by flesh-eating butterflies. He juxtaposes words and creates beauty--\\"Because gravity is in love with your shadow & the sky can't hold on to your hair...\\" He can be blatant--portraying a runaway humankind as pigs who \\"enjoy the finer things\\" and \\"shoot other pigs for hoarding,\\" and pitting the excesses of the capitalist world against \\"two sparrows/a nest of weeds/& a tiny dry river.\\" He can be wryly humorous; he can be terribly sad. But what he is NOT, is boring, neutral or easy to ignore.<br />Susan O'Neill, author: Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2002-08-28
US	51657625	R2XMF5KVX4CGHO	1889330701	7655755	Coal Miner's Holiday: Stories	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	I Loved the Book	When I began reading the first story in Coal Miner's Holiday, I Loved the Squire, I thought of Hemmingway, mostly because of the stark and sometimes choppy prose. I'm not a huge Hemmingway fan, so I had my reservations, but by the end of the story, I found myself marveling. Delancey is a unique voice, and her stories stick in the mind. As is often the case in good writing, their complexity is belied by the simplicity of their language. It isn't the stuff of MFA programs; it's real, often rough, sometimes down-and-dirty.<br />These are not all stories about coal miners, although they are set in midwestern coal country. Some, like the trilogy bracketed under the heading &quot;Swingtime&quot; and the marvelous little gem, &quot;Story of the Bread&quot; (My personal favorite; I believe it should be required reading for EVERYONE, period), spring from the author's Greek background. Delancey jumps back and forth in time--&quot;The Seven Pearls,&quot; for example, delivers us an oddball prophet in the Hippie age, while Dinger and Blacker is set in and around a speakeasy.<br />This is great stuff. Buy, enjoy, give it to someone who appreciates fine, quirky writing and very human characters.<br />Susan O'Neill<br />Author, Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2002-08-03
US	51657625	R2SONDCML6BTGD	097009731X	789350261	Over the Edge:  Death in Grand Canyon	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Arrogance; ignorance; the "Disney" view of nature	I read this book shortly after spending a few days hiking Grand Canyon; had I read it before, perhaps I would not have fought nausea and leg cramps for two days after my 12-mile hike down and up Bright Angel Trail. What is it about us human beings--how we feel that, in any contest with nature, we're fated to  come out on top? This book explores the many ways in which Grand Canyon has proven our arrogance to be severely and fatally wrong.<br />The book comprises a thoroughly-researched history of  fatal mishaps, goof-ups, idiotic moves, miscalculations, honest mistakes and, yes--actions that proved to be fully intentional--documented over the past couple hundred years in the GC. It is fascinating, in the sense that we are all fascinated with such phenomena as highway accidents and accounts of disgruntled workers run amok. Solo hikers slipping into painful oblivion from unwise shortcuts; hot-weather visitors dying of heat exhaustion--as I could have--or of dehydration within shouting distance of the Colorado River. Boaters suffering terminal hypothermia. Rafts flying apart in the rapids; planes falling out of the air; suicides, murders, even the odd hiker who perishes while peeing off a cliff.<br />The overwhelming question, to most of us, is Why? Why do something that is, to the sober mind, foolish, and court disaster in this huge, dangerous hole in the ground? There are many answers, and many hypotheses that might or might not be answers, and the book lays them out well. Unwise solo hiking. Inadequate equipment. Bravado. Lack of understanding. Bad planning; bad timing; bad luck. Underestimation of the foe. A false sense of safety because, hey, we're in a National Park, and surely a National Park can't be any more dangerous than Disney World...<br />The book is well worth reading. It is alarming; it is often perversely humorous. However, it can, too, be somewhat plodding--I found myself losing interest at times, when the authors reverted to more technical discussions of the physical details of the canyon and the river. The Cfs--the flow, in cubic feet per second--of the rapids meant virtually nothing to me, and the make-up of specific rock formations and cliff walls, as well as certain climbing maneuvers, distracted me from the far more interesting human stories. I felt sometimes that the authors credited me with more savvy in these fields than I actually had--and this seemed a fault, because I would expect a book that deals with human ignorance to be aimed at those of us who are...well, ignorant. Which would be a healthy percentage of the population that might be tempted to hike the GC without adequate forethought.<br />I would recommend this book highly to anyone who has some knowledge of Grand Canyon--a lot of it won't make sense unless you've actually seen the place, not just pictures.  It helps, too, if you know something about canyon-type sports; then you can understand what it means to traverse or scramble a wall in a specific way,  or why a boater would aim for a specific spot on the river and avoid another. But even if you possess no technical knowledge, and you skip over the aspects to which you can't relate, the human foibles that are, collectively, the true star of this book will probably hold your attention. And amaze you--because we're always amazed at the ability of others to screw up in situations where we know that WE would never, ever do something that stupid.<br />No; none of US would hike Bright Angel trail on a 100-plus degree day without having fully adapted to the altitude and without bringing enough food for a good, hardy lunch...<br />At least, I wouldn't do it twice...of the physical details of the canyon and the river. The Cfs--the flow, in cubic feet per second--of the rapids meant virtually nothing to me, and the make-up of specific rock formations and cliff walls, as well as certain climbing maneuvers, distracted me from the far more interesting human stories. I felt sometimes that the authors credited me with more savvy in these fields than I actually had--and this seemed a fault, because I would expect a book that deals with human ignorance to be aimed at those of us who are...well, ignorant. Which would be a healthy percentage of the population that might be tempted to hike the GC without adequate forethought.<br />I would recommend this book highly to anyone who has some knowledge of Grand Canyon--a lot of it won't make sense unless you've actually seen the place, not just pictures.  It helps, too, if you know something about canyon-type sports; then you can understand what it means to traverse or scramble a wall in a specific way,  or why a boater would aim for a specific spot on the river and avoid another. But even if you possess no technical knowledge, and you skip over the aspects to which you can't relate, the human foibles that are, collectively, the true star of this book will probably hold your attention. And amaze you--because we're always amazed at the ability of others to screw up in situations where we know that WE would never, ever do something that stupid.<br />No; none of US would hike Bright Angel trail on a 100-plus degree day without having fully adapted to the altitude and without bringing enough food for a good, hardy lunch...<br />At least, I wouldn't do it twice...	2002-07-06
US	51657625	R26PGTRPMZYZ7J	0451206339	520862705	Forgive the Moon	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Too good for just &quot;summer reading&quot;	I loved this book. Maryanne Stahl has a style and expertise that raise this story of a woman trying to find her place in the world well above the simple romance it could have been. The protagonist's personal struggles--with her flagging marriage, a lover, her role as mother (and potential mother, because she might be pregnant), and the realization of her talents as a musician--are skillfully intercut with scenes from a childhood tempered by the mental illness of her mother. There is much going on here, and yet the book is a quick read. Almost too quick; I was sorry to put it down when I'd finished it.<br />Sue O'Neill<br />Author: Don't Mean Nothing: Stories of Viet Nam	2002-06-30
US	51657625	R2FEF3CKF66CJ3	0802117155	763712560	Wish You Were Here	Books	5	66	69	N	N	Complex and accurate family portrait	Stewart O'Nan has done here--successfully--what one of the members of the family he portrays longs to do as a photographic work: he captures the summer world of Lake Chautauqua, where time moves slowly and every change seems a betrayal of memory, rather than a step in progress. But this only the setting; the true stars of this drama are the family. O'Nan examines its web of relationships, politics and attitudes with an uncannily accurate eye. He assumes each character's point of view lovingly; he knows them all, young and old, male and female. And so do we, because we've been there ourselves--the recognition is half the fun of the reading. The detail, too, is marvelous: whose workbench, for example, has never been graced with a Chock-Full-O-Nuts can crammed with dead paintbrushes? Wish You Were Here reminds us what a flawed species we are, so eager to turn away from each other to search for that Something that must, by nature, elude us--the perfect light, the impossible love, the exquisite memory, the undiluted attention of our parents. There are no jarring plot twists, no car chases, no fights-to-the-death, no special effects--just fine writing, arresting characters, right-on dialogue (spoken and internal) and a week's crash course in what makes us bizarre creatures tick. Read; recognize; enjoy.	2002-06-16
US	51657625	R1U2I026WA6RBJ	0786808012	442293804	Artemis Fowl	Books	5	1	2	N	N	What fun!	I picked this book up in Ireland with my niece in mind. Started reading it, and I was hooked. The author loves his nasty characters, which makes the reader love them as well. A terrific blend of the modern and the ancient, written with a twinkle in the eye--keeps you turning the pages and laughing.	2002-05-22
US	51657625	R3Q03HN63KWST1	0967600308	321600275	Hunger and Other Stories	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Fathers and Sons, Lovers and Losers	I am an editor for the flash fiction eZine Vestal Review, and the publisher and I recently accepted a superb short-short piece by this author. When I found out that he had written a collection, I was intrigued. I bought the book--and I was not disappointed. Ian Randall Wilson is a writer of fierce, compact prose. These are by no means lighthearted tales; they are peopled with dark and falible characters--fathers who give their children object lessons in place of warmth; sons addicted to work, to drugs, to painful relationships; lovers who cannot connect and losers who twitch with an almost obscene humanity. And yet, weighted by Wilson's capability, these stories are readable, memorable and, in some cases, downright fascinating. For the record, the story \\"I'm Invisible. I'm Safe. I'm Magic\\" tore my heart out. No romp through the daisies here--the author dishes up the complex messiness of life, and he does it very, very well.  (Susan Kramer O'Neill, editor of Vestal Review and author of \\"Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam\\")	2002-02-19
US	51657625	R50VOBSN42L2R	1893652904	153060890	A Saigon Party: and Other Vietnam War Short Stories	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Humorous and angry, tall tales about the war	I didn't quite know what to expect when I bought this book; I've only begun reading books by female Viet Nam vets since publishing my collection, and this is the first fiction other than my own that I've encountered. What I found, to my surprise and a delight, kept me entertained throughout its quick reading.<br />These are humorous tales, irreverent to a fault, bound to offend someone, be it the Red Cross, the USO, or the military establishment--hell, especially the military establishment. Some of them are real whoppers, spun with panache--I especially loved Dell's depiction of the Ho Chi Minh Trail (by now, she's probably right). As is always the case with good satire, the humor here is fueled with a crisp anger.<br />If you are interested in a different slant on the Viet Nam conflict from someone who's been there, a writer with a Mark Twain puckishness, this is definitely your book.<br />Susan Kramer O'Neill, author<br />Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam	2002-01-24
US	51657625	R2RBY7WE3Z9RQC	0375705856	963629300	Plainsong	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Precisely-edited, human story	A very economically-written, precisely-edited story about human kindness found in unlikely places. Haruf's Colorado community is the quintessential small town, where everybody knows not only your name, but your business--or thinks they do. It is hard-working, undemonstrative, and--this is the meat of this book--it takes care of its own with quiet concern and a minimum of fanfare.<br />Haruf's characters carry the story, mostly through dialogue and description; there is very little introspection. It works: my heart ached for his protagonists, a quietly righteous teacher, his two young sons, his estranged, depressive wife; a pregnant highschool girl whose mother kicks her out of the house; two wryly hilarious old farmers who perform an unlikely act of mercy. Even the villians--the parents of a surly, lost teenaged boy and the kid himself--are human and recognizable archtypes who might well live next door. Bit-players, minor actors--although they might have spent little time in print, these too were fully fleshed and caught in as few words as possible.<br />The writer's approach reminds me of Larry Brown's--the tightness of the editing, the simplicity of the imagery. Amazing, too, the mood he sets by not using quote marks; I kept asking myself how it would have changed the book to do so. An interesting stylistic gesture, but one that made a subtle but profound mark on the way I read the story.	2002-01-04
US	51657625	R10RE9LJ6QLQPL	0887483623	873742343	The Demon of Longing (Carnegie Mellon Short Fiction Series)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	human characters, contorted histories	A number of these elegantly-told tales could be fodder for novels. The characters are deep and flawed and thoroughly human, and a few of them trail their contorted histories through several stories. At times, Gilliland backtracks over a life's foibles in a single paragraph, a technique no less effective for her than for the likes of Gabriel Garcia Marquez. At other times, her narrators speak for themselves with poignant simplicity. I picked the book up to amuse myself during the holiday season, figuring that short stories would not command much attention from my busy life; I found myself taking the time I didn't have, turning the page to find out what happened to these women and men because the author made me care. Loved the book; recommend it with both thumbs up, and a big toe or two thrown in.	2001-12-24
US	51657625	R3J0QY2KMCQZ4C	0966531957	156406574	A World of Hurt: Between Innocence and Arrogance in Vietnam	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	The Real Deal	With this slim book, Mary Reynolds Powell gives us a true and poignant picture of her year as a nurse in Viet Nam. She writes with simple elegance and fine attention to detail, and her images and words bear a memorable impact. For those who think of wars as glorious, and feel that the truth of combat lies in military strategy, this is a sobering account. Believe what you read here; this is the Real Deal.	2001-11-16
US	51657625	R2NI0U1YGZV7W5	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Uniquely written; a fine and angry novel	The narrative voice in this book is astoundingly real, and quite unique. Roy's precise prose and her understatement cast a stark light on the institutionalized injustices that motivate and condemn her star-crossed  characters. I found it gripping, emotionally honest and downright  horrifying. Beautifully done, and very revealing.	1999-04-21
