US	51652698	R2GN3IWBSZ5STM	0060750235	442121854	The Journeys of Socrates (Peaceful Warrior Saga)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	A Must-Read for Millman Fans	If you were like me you were incredibly curious about the mysterious Socrates.  Who was he?  Where did he come from?  Was he a real person?<br /><br />This book is all about his life in Russia and how he came to be.  It also explains how he came into his \\"peaceful\\" power, his family background and how he came to the United States.  I'm not going to go into too much detail but I will say it's a definite must-read as a companion to \\"Way of the Peaceful Warrior.\\"<br /><br />It can be a bit slow at times and unless you're familiar with Russian names it can also take a bit of thinking to keep track of characters.  Some of them have other names they use.  Socrates has three at some points and for me, it took a little more careful reading.  Doesn't make it less interesting, though.<br /><br />However, there are three big shockers that will keep you glued to the book.  Especially the ending which had me gasp twice, keep reading and blown away by what else Millman discovered.  You'll never guess what Dan discovered about Socrates at the end but be amazed when you do;  It makes WotPW much, much more personal for Dan.<br /><br />Definite must-read for fans of the first book -- newcomers, should most definitely read \\"Way of the Peaceful Warrior\\" first.  That way it would make much more sense.	2005-04-30
US	51652698	RH02RGU4OESSM	1580627560	916830225	Why Men Love Bitches: From Doormat to Dreamgirl―A Woman's Guide to Holding Her Own in a Relationship	Books	4	723	855	N	N	Don't be a doormat -- read this book!	This is such a great book that I've been recommending it to all of my female friends and family. It illustrates to you why your relationships current and past have failed miserably and lets you know what you're doing wrong as well as how to approach it from a better standpoint.<br />Basically, the author explains that women have been taught to be nurturers; A woman finds a man worth loving, showers everything and anything on them and *surprise!* they're abandoned. Why does this happen? Because women expect men to give back what they're giving them and it just doesn't work that way -- at least not in the beginning of any relationship -- it has to be built to that point (my parents were like this after years of marriage.) This extreme generosity on womens' parts comes across as if they're strictly living for their man's happiness (sometimes that's true, too, unfortunately) and unfortunately that tells the man that they're doormats. Plain and simple.<br />The book explains that men want an independent woman. They don't want a mother, a babysitter or a slave -- they lose interest in them way too fast and the mystery is gone. Sounds easy enough to understand but if you read the examples and follow a few tips you'll be very surprised with the results.<br />For example, the old telephone bit. DON'T wait by the telephone for the guy you're seeing. Go out, have a life outside of him and call back when it fits YOUR schedule, not his. Don't rearrange your plans around him and most of all don't leave all decisions up to him. I've had friends I'm with that when the phone rings, they ignore all their guests to go suck up to the guy they're after on the phone. Wrong. You make time for your man when you have the time -- not stopping your life.<br />The two things I was surprised to discover is: 1.) Women have been taught in the past that appearance is everything they need to find a man -- and nothing else matters. No wonder women have been treated like doormats! If personality and ambition are ignored there's nothing left but appearance and 2.) Women need to be taught to have a life outside of their boyfriends/mates/husbands. Women have been taught by society that they need a man to complete their lives SO MUCH that they end up desperate and it shows to the man they're dating. Plus, it's the reason you feel that emptiness in a relationship -- you've lived so much for him that you forgot about yourself. It's really sad when you realize how passive society has made women unconsciously or consciously and you need to take that back.<br />I'll give you an example I used: A guy who asked me out called me up and said: \\"Well, you can drive over here since I'm closer to where we're going.\\" The passive/old me who was desperate would say: \\"Okay! Anything to make you happy because God forbid, I don't want to lose you -- that's how desperate I am.\\" What I said instead was: \\"No, you asked me out so come pick me up.\\" Lo and behold what did he do? He picked me up. Don't be afraid to put your foot down -- of course, be cool about it, not nasty and it ALWAYS works.<br />Making plans? Don't drop them because he asked you out, plan around him. I have a friend who lives for her boyfriend and really could use this book but she's so far gone that I've given up hope. I can't tell you how many times she's cancelled on me at the last second because he decided he wanted to go out at that time. Wrong. You hate when your friends do that to you and you're disgusted with them for their attitudes -- so why on earth would you do it? Besides, he's more likely to call back when you don't offer everything on a platter at once -- including your heart; You lose mystery with him when you do that and he loses interest.<br />Then we come to a very important chapter: If he knows you're not putting him in a cage -- he'll try and put you in one. This is where the mother/babysitter aspect comes in. He calls the shots -- with everything. What movies you watch, where you go, how you liveyour life and quite frankly this is where women get into relationships and suddenly realize they're unhappy -- but don't know why. It's because they've made themselves become little slaves to their men's happiness and they're not getting it back. In my opinion, if you're in this kind of a relationship it's hardly fixable but there are ways around that. Another example in the book was one woman let a man do his wash at her place and he ended up expecting her to do it all the time. He would just bring it over and not even ask. So, one time she dropped a pair of red panties in with his whites and when everything came out pink she said: \\"Oh, I'm just not good at this kind of thing.\\" What was the result? He said: \\"You are NEVER doing my wash again.\\" Problem solved.<br />In fact, I gave this to my mother (who is a widow dating) and she was very surprised to realize how much advantage her boyfriend was taking over her. He would plan parties at HER HOUSE and she would do all the cooking and he never helped her pay for any of it. When she began to protest, he fought her on it. What ended up happening is she booted him out the door. In some instances, like I said, it's not fixable. But, was he worth keeping? She decided \\"No\\" and she has told me she is much happier.<br />Have a guy tell you that he wants to see you and other people? Don't get on the floor and beg for him -- tell him: \\"Don't let the door hit you on the ***. I had one guy do that to me. We went out and he told me that he was going to see this girl he knew at work. So, when we were driving back to my place I said: \\"I understand about your needs to see other people,\\" and he nodded and got this smile on his face. Then I said: \\"So since you're going to see someone else on Saturday I just wanted you to know that I have a date, too.\\" That smile melted off his face so fast I could have died laughing. What ended up happening? He was so distracted by the fact that I was going out on a date that he didn't enjoy his at all. The VERY next morning he called immediately and asked if I wanted to go out. I hemmed and hawed and said: \\"Well, I'm pretty tired from last night, so no, but I can go out Monday evening.\\" I was showered with attention Monday. Trust me - it works.<br />Now, in defense of some of the male postings here (which make me laugh of course) NOT ALL MEN ARE LIKE THIS. But unfortunately, there are guys out there who are. Think of this book as a great guideline to weed those out. If guys like this are playing games, the best thing to do is to play YOUR WAY. You may not end up with the right guy if you have to but your self esteem won't be shot in the end when it's over and that little player will have learned something. Real men DON'T play these games, but do love independence in women.<br />The only chapter I don't agree with would be the one on faking an orgasm once you get to an intimate point in the relationship. If you can't be honest with your lover and are more worried about his ego then you're setting a trap for yourself. Healthy, sexual relationships are all about honesty -- each of you telling each other what you want. Neither one of you are going to figure it out eventually. That never happens. I got this info from \\"Mars and Venus in the Bedroom\\" which you can find on Amazon.com. Explain what works, what doesn't, don't be harsh about it and it will all fall into place. Trust me on this one.<br />So get this book if you've had your heart broken too many times. Remember, not all guys are like this but you can figure out which ones are (and... have a little fun with them in the meantime *devil grin here*) Real men don't play games with women and you'll figure out the real men from the weasels with this book. A MUST READ for you women out there sick of the games -- play them your own way! And trust me, it works!live your life and quite frankly this is where women get into relationships and suddenly realize they're unhappy -- but don't know why. It's because they've made themselves become little slaves to their men's happiness and they're not getting it back. In my opinion, if you're in this kind of a relationship it's hardly fixable but there are ways around that. Another example in the book was one woman let a man do his wash at her place and he ended up expecting her to do it all the time. He would just bring it over and not even ask. So, one time she dropped a pair of red panties in with his whites and when everything came out pink she said: \\"Oh, I'm just not good at this kind of thing.\\" What was the result? He said: \\"You are NEVER doing my wash again.\\" Problem solved. <br />In fact, I gave this to my mother (who is a widow dating) and she was very surprised to realize how much advantage her boyfriend was taking over her. He would plan parties at HER HOUSE and she would do all the cooking and he never helped her pay for any of it. When she began to protest, he fought her on it. What ended up happening is she booted him out the door. In some instances, like I said, it's not fixable. But, was he worth keeping? She decided \\"No\\" and she has told me she is much happier. <br />Have a guy tell you that he wants to see you and other people? Don't get on the floor and beg for him -- tell him: \\"Don't let the door hit you on the ***. I had one guy do that to me. We went out and he told me that he was going to see this girl he knew at work. So, when we were driving back to my place I said: \\"I understand about your needs to see other people,\\" and he nodded and got this smile on his face. Then I said: \\"So since you're going to see someone else on Saturday I just wanted you to know that I have a date, too.\\" That smile melted off his face so fast I could have died laughing. What ended up happening? He was so distracted by the fact that I was going out on a date that he didn't enjoy hisat all. The VERY next morning he called immediately and asked if I wanted to go out. I hemmed and hawed and said: \\"Well, I'm pretty tired from last night, so no, but I can go out Monday evening.\\" I was showered with attention Monday. Trust me - it works. <br />Now, in defense of some of the male postings here (which make me laugh of course) NOT ALL MEN ARE LIKE THIS. But unfortunately, there are guys out there who are. Think of this book as a great guideline to weed those out. If guys like this are playing games, the best thing to do is to play YOUR WAY. You may not end up with the right guy if you have to but your self esteem won't be shot in the end when it's over and that little player will have learned something. Real men DON'T play these games, but do love independence in women. <br />The only chapter I don't agree with would be the one on faking an orgasm once you get to an intimate point in the relationship. If you can't be honest with your lover and are more worried about his ego then you're setting a trap for yourself. Healthy, sexual relationships are all about honesty -- each of you telling each other what you want. Neither one of you are going to figure it out eventually. That never happens. I got this info from \\"Mars and Venus in the Bedroom\\" which you can find on Amazon.com. Explain what works, what doesn't, don't be harsh about it and it will all fall into place. Trust me on this one. <br />So get this book if you've had your heart broken too many times. Remember, not all guys are like this but you can figure out which ones are (and... have a little fun with them in the meantime *devil grin here*) Real men don't play games with women and you'll figure out the real men from the weasels with this book. A MUST READ for you women out there sick of the games -- play them your own way! And trust me, it works!	2004-03-06
US	51652698	R2PWICVWGS5EMJ	0425190188	834925630	More Things You Need To Be Told	Books	5	16	23	N	N	Wonderful Entertainment and Info	In the midst of Britney-like halter tops and cell phones used during funerals, the EG's like to remind us that we can be polite and refined -- despite the fact the world can be tacky. Whether's it's proper apparel or just plain manners, the EG's like to talk about the more classy things in life, how to get around certain subjects and rip on that which is considerably a social faux pas.<br />As for the negative reviews here, the EG's have obviously gone over their heads with their brand of satirical humor. Their talk of gin and tonics, exasperated reactions and capped words (very much like Southern Belles) are ALL tongue-in-cheek. That's the joke on their side; the authors are actually &quot;characters&quot; in their book. They play up to their etiquette advice and it's too bad some people don't get it. They never come across better-than-thou to anyone -- except the people who are tacky enough to invite people to the bridal shower -- not the wedding.<br />Along with their book, they have a great website which answers Q&amp;As and are quite entertaining. Both are great reads and I highly recommend it.	2003-10-06
US	51652698	R3U03GD25HTIW8	0786888741	913320116	Lucky Man: A Memoir	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Heartwarming, Sensitive and Well-Written	I was always curious about Fox's story when the news of his disease broke out.  In this book, he goes completely in deep about his background from when he was a child to pretty much current day.<br />As you've probably read, it starts out with the twitching of his pinkie quite some time ago (roughly 10 years) and after he is definitely diagnosed with having Parkinson's, his story takes a huge step back -- all the way to before he was born and then the story completely begins.<br />We learn about his very heartwarming family and about how he grew up in Canada as a smaller-than-usual child.  Fox had such a youthfulness about him as well as his shorter height, that he was cast as a 12-year-old in a Canadian sitcom when he was already 16.  From there, it moves onto his trip to Hollywood where he and his father drove down from Canada and hoofed it around Tinsel Town looking for agents.<br />He talks about his experiences with &quot;Family Ties,&quot; &quot;Teen Wolf&quot; and of course &quot;Back to the Future,&quot; which I'm sure most of you would like to know about (as well as his Parkinson's.)  His journey from struggling actor selling off pieces of his couch one-by-one in order to have money to eat moves to the BTF explosion and how he skyrocketed into stardom.<br />He not only goes into his marriage to Tracy but how his excessive drinking (accompanied by his denial of Parkinson's) actually suffered his marriage to the point where he quit drinking completely.  Fox never comes out and says that he was an alcoholic, but he definitely compares himself to one.<br />His Parkinson's is well illustrated for those out there who know nothing about it.  He describes the symptoms, his treatments, what happens when he doesn't take his medication and actually goes into great detail about his brain surgery that was performed while he was awake.<br />Fox didn't have a ghost writer and says that only his brother-in-law helped him with writing the entire book.  If this is the case, he is quite the natural writer, never really straying from his outline and not only writing with incredible detail but very funny quips and comments.  He's a great writer.<br />I'm only giving this four out of five stars because Fox left out some information in his life.  One in particular would be his big, long-time romance, now good friend Nancy McKean.  They were so heavily publicized in the 80s that I'm surprised he never mentions her at all.<br />The other reason would be because he pretty much says that although fame was surreal and it was easy to get caught up in, he never lost his head and appreciated his fans.  This for a fact, I know is bull.  I had known a boy who was a huge fan of his, to the point where he emulated himself after his Marty character down to the type of skateboard he had.  Well, he had an opportunity to meet Fox here in Chicago when he was filming &quot;Light of Day&quot; and when he did he said that Fox was so nasty to him that he cried that night and threw out his skateboard.  So obviously, Fox hasn't been that great to all of his fans.  I know it seems small, but I'll never forget how upset this guy was and when I read about Fox's &quot;appreciation&quot; for his fans, it bothered me enough to write this in the review.<br />With that, I suspect that Fox left out a number of things in his memoir to be private.  Yes, of course celebrities need their privacy, so I suppose that that's why there's lots left out and probably because Fox wanted to concentrate on his disease in the book rather than tabloid fodder.  (Oh, and he goes into great detail about how they treated him during private moments as well.)<br />Good book.  Well written.  Hope he finds what he's looking for.he is quite the natural writer, never really straying from his outline and not only writing with incredible detail but very funny quips and comments.  He's a great writer.<br />I'm only giving this four out of five stars because Fox left out some information in his life.  One in particular would be his big, long-time romance, now good friend Nancy McKean.  They were so heavily publicized in the 80s that I'm surprised he never mentions her at all.<br />The other reason would be because he pretty much says that although fame was surreal and it was easy to get caught up in, he never lost his head and appreciated his fans.  This for a fact, I know is bull.  I had known a boy who was a huge fan of his, to the point where he emulated himself after his Marty character down to the type of skateboard he had.  Well, he had an opportunity to meet Fox here in Chicago when he was filming &quot;Light of Day&quot; and when he did he said that Fox was so nasty to him that he cried that night and threw out his skateboard.  So obviously, Fox hasn't been that great to all of his fans.  I know it seems small, but I'll never forget how upset this guy was and when I read about Fox's &quot;appreciation&quot; for his fans, it bothered me enough to write this in the review.<br />With that, I suspect that Fox left out a number of things in his memoir to be private.  Yes, of course celebrities need their privacy, so I suppose that that's why there's lots left out and probably because Fox wanted to concentrate on his disease in the book rather than tabloid fodder.  (Oh, and he goes into great detail about how they treated him during private moments as well.)<br />Good book.  Well written.  Hope he finds what he's looking for.	2003-10-03
US	51652698	R46QBLGYUQ47U	042518370X	309886180	Things You Need To Be Told: A Handbook for Polite Behavior in a Tacky, Rude World!	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Great info and entertainment!	In the midst of Britney-like halter tops and cell phones used during funerals, the EG's like to remind us that we can be polite and refined -- despite the fact the world can be tacky.  Whether's it's proper apparel or just plain manners, the EG's like to talk about the more classy things in life, how to get around certain subjects and rip on that which is considerably a social faux pas.<br />As for the negative reviews here, the EG's have obviously gone over their heads with their brand of satirical humor.  Their talk of gin and tonics, exasperated reactions and capped words (very much like Southern Belles) are ALL tongue-in-cheek.  That's the joke on their side; the authors are actually \\"characters\\" in their book.  They play up to their etiquette advice and it's too bad some people don't get it.  They never come across better-than-thou to anyone -- except the people who are tacky enough to invite people to the bridal shower -- not the wedding.<br />Along with their book, they have a great website which answers Q&As and are quite entertaining.  Both are great reads and I highly recommend it.	2003-10-03
US	51652698	R3QAUM1PL2B6CV	0380731649	438241163	Just Desserts: Martha Stewart the Unauthorized Biography	Books	4	24	30	N	N	Makes Oprah seem like a fuzzy kitten...	WOW, was this a ruthless illustration of Martha Stewart!  She's described as an obsessive-compulsive insomniac (she would only sleep for 2-4 hours a night, then get up and paint her entire house in one day), who's main goal is to be on top through ruthless power and manipulation (she stole business ideas, designs and didn't give credit to friends, coworkers... to the point where if a person demanded royalties, she would find some loophole in the legal system to prevent them from getting any profits -- Me-YOW!)  This depiction is a far cry from the soft-spoken homemaker you see on her show.  She's described by family and friends as dominating, cold, sadistic, abusive and absolutely ruthless.  She even cuts down her elderly mother in front of her family: \\"She only makes peasant food!\\" she snipes.  I've never read anything like it.<br />It starts with Martha's family and where she came from in New Jersey.  Apparently, Martha's father was a perfectionist who shoved his beliefs, anger and attitude down her throat; nothing was good enough in his eyes and because of him, the Monster-Martha is what is alive today. Even as a child, she sabotaged a little girl's cake recipe in order to take her little business away for herself.  Signs that a powerful, heartless woman was going to surface.<br />Martha was cutthroat and vindictive.  She pretty much screwed over anyone and everyone around her to further only herself -- she didn't even care about her family, including her daughter and husband, whom she brow-beated to death in front of family and friends until he (who was just wimpy from the start) finally had the nerve to leave her, prompting incredible stories of stalking, vandalism and public screaming fits -- till he had a restraining order put on her.<br />Martha is depicted as someone who never learned affection, or at least had an incredible dark side that was calculating and vindictive.  She would purposely hire people who were creative and brilliant, but they either had low self-esteems to begin with or she broke them down.  She DEFINITELY was masochistic and manipulated everyone who came in her path on her rise to power.  The only time her affections seemed to be positive, were when sex was involved, and then she came across predatory.  She's also illustrated as an incredible liar; family and friends reflect on her writings of her \\"happy past\\" and say all of them are either exaggerated or completely fabricated.<br />After reading what a terror she was in the past, I can actually believe the insider trading stories -- it just fits.  Oh and the new edition adds that little chunk in the end.<br />Upon finishing this, I'm blown away at what a terror she was and has become.  She is obviously a person who will stop at nothing to be on top, including her cheapness and just downright vicious scheming.  She's also obviously brilliant, with a chip on her shoulder about her poor past and is also considered racist, sexist and as the book says: \\"WASPy in true form.\\"<br />Martha Stewart is a nightmare in this book!  I wouldn't want to come within 20 ft. of her (much less meet her in a dark alley) after reading this.  Personally, I think she's mentally screwed up something fierce, but the fact that she concentrates all of it into her work is phenomenal.<br />4 stars -- one missing due to some anonymous sources (which I don't always trust as true) and the fact that it pretty much had NOTHING positive to say about her; I would have liked to see a little positive stuff.  You know, to kind of balance it out.  Then again, maybe there wasn't anything positive.  This woman is the anti-Christ!<br />Otherwise, good trash to read!ow self-esteems to begin with or she broke them down.  She DEFINITELY was masochistic and manipulated everyone who came in her path on her rise to power.  The only time her affections seemed to be positive, were when sex was involved, and then she came across predatory.  She's also illustrated as an incredible liar; family and friends reflect on her writings of her \\"happy past\\" and say all of them are either exaggerated or completely fabricated.  <br />After reading what a terror she was in the past, I can actually believe the insider trading stories -- it just fits.  Oh and the new edition adds that little chunk in the end.<br />Upon finishing this, I'm blown away at what a terror she was and has become.  She is obviously a person who will stop at nothing to be on top, including her cheapness and just downright vicious scheming.  She's also obviously brilliant, with a chip on her shoulder about her poor past and is also considered racist, sexist and as the book says: \\"WASPy in true form.\\"<br />Martha Stewart is a nightmare in this book!  I wouldn't want to come within 20 ft. of her (much less meet her in a dark alley) after reading this.  Personally, I think she's mentally screwed up something fierce, but the fact that she concentrates all of it into her work is phenomenal.<br />4 stars -- one missing due to some anonymous sources (which I don't always trust as true) and the fact that it pretty much had NOTHING positive to say about her; I would have liked to see a little positive stuff.  You know, to kind of balance it out.  Then again, maybe there wasn't anything positive.  This woman is the anti-Christ!  <br />Otherwise, good trash to read!	2003-09-04
US	51652698	RHERTOE6M2ETJ	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	5	7	13	N	N	A simple tale with a complex message	The negative reviews written here unfortunately surprise me.  I found this book to be an excellent fable with symbolism that can be applied to real life.<br />This book teaches you that hope is something to cling to and that when all seems lost, if you give every ounce of effort to one last try, you will make it.  It teaches you that to be observant and to listen to words and omens and symbols, you can understand that the Divine speaks with you.  He always does -- we just don't always listen.  It also teaches that when we think we have lost one treasure, there is always a greater one on the horizon.  It really is mostly about faith in oneself and God.<br />This book seems simple in it's storytelling, but breaking down the conversations and lessons actually makes me pull out a legal pad and jot down information to ponder; this book made me think and is one that I'll be referencing for sometime.<br />As for omens, well, let me just tell you that a friend had recommended this book to me awhile ago and I thought: &quot;Well, I'll pick it up sometime later.&quot;  Two weeks went by and I didn't.  Well, one night I was walking up to my apartment and on the ground right in front of me was: &quot;The Alchemist.&quot;  Someone had dropped it on the street and didn't notice.  So I picked it up, brought it home and read it.<br />Was this an omen that I was to read this book and receive clarity in my life?  I'd like to think so.  But, that's what I've learned.  You'll probably have to read the book yourself and come up with your own interpretation.  All I know is I'm glad I acted on that &quot;omen&quot; and read it.	2003-06-03
US	51652698	R3MWL0T464DA0J	1881098184	323163860	The Witches' Almanac (Spring 2002 to Spring 2003): The Complete Guide to Lunar Harmony	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Lovely little addition to any library	I absolutely adore this little \\"book\\" and look forward to it every spring for the new year. It is chock full of little tidbits and lore that is an absolute delight to peruse with its \\"woodcut\\" graphics that are detailed and lovely.<br />First of all, there is always a section on what's been happening in the news and the news always has to do with something metaphysical or spiritual. For instance, one passage had new information on \\"Nessie\\" the Lock Ness and the second had interesting speculation that an armor dealer in Italy had possibly found Joan of Arc's suit of armor because it literally fit his 13-year-old girl. I love these little news clips because they are interesting and informative.<br />There is always a republishing of a fairy tale of some sort and is usually the original form with an explanation of the moral. Otherwise, there are always various articles and information. For instance, one passage had to do with the mystical origin of \\"Scarborough Fair,\\" by Simon and Garfunkel, one had information on the Egyptian God Set and his origin in Egyptian lore, one had recipes for \\"moon cookies\\" for a summer feast, another had information on the different moons and what they represent, another had information on the superstition of the black cat throughout history and how the U.S. is the only one that regards it as bad luck, the list is various and endless... but one thing is for sure: it's an almanac and it reads like one; informative, advising and entertaining.<br />Also, there is always a detailed two-page spread on each horoscope for the year as well as a weather almanac (which I find disturbingly accurate, I must confess,) as well as moon phases and a calendar for the entire year with advice for certain days, famous people's birthdays and moon phases.<br />This is a wonderful little book. I've read criticism towards this book for the price in regards to the size, but there is NO external advertising. That is, there's no ad in the back to call LaToya's Jackson's stupid psychic hotline. Ads such as these usually litter metaphysical newsletters/almanacs in order to help pay for the costs of the book and it is refreshing to have a collectible without them. Ever see a woman's fashion magazine? Notice how 3/4 of it is just advertisements? Ever wish there weren't any? That's what this is. In other words, I'd rather pay the extra bucks to see it without them. Also, this is from an independent publisher (ahem...Witches' Almanac, Inc.) which is why it's a couple of bucks extra.<br />I've been collecting these almanacs for years. They also have books of theirs that you can order through them such as herbal books, a book of \\"wisdom\\" for each day of the year, past issues of the almanac and reprints of them from the 70s as well as much, much more.<br />This is a little treasure of a book that is wonderful to read. Check it out at your bookstore and you'll love the content. High recommendation for the serious practitioner, anyone who collects almanacs of various sorts and people who love history and folklore. A must buy for unique book collections.n's stupid psychic hotline. Ads such as these usually litter metaphysical newsletters/almanacs in order to help pay for the costs of the book and it is refreshing to have a collectible without them. Ever see a woman's fashion magazine? Notice how 3/4 of it is just advertisements? Ever wish there weren't any? That's what this is. In other words, I'd rather pay the extra bucks to see it without them. Also, this is from an independent publisher (ahem...Witches' Almanac, Inc.) which is why it's a couple of bucks extra.<br />I've been collecting these almanacs for years. They also have books of theirs that you can order through them such as herbal books, a book of \\"wisdom\\" for each day of the year, past issues of the almanac and reprints of them from the 70s as well as much, much more.<br />This is a little treasure of a book that is wonderful to read. Check it out at your bookstore and you'll love the content. High recommendation for the serious practitioner, anyone who collects almanacs of various sorts and people who love history and folklore. A must buy for unique book collections.	2002-04-24
US	51652698	R2AMQ1KHST6D6T	0738700339	694707612	Llewellyn's 2002 Magical Almanac	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Love this diverse almanac	I absolutely adore this little &quot;book&quot; and look forward to it every new year. It is chock full of little tidbits and lore that is an absolute delight to peruse with its graphics that are detailed and lovely.<br />This almanac is more diverse with its cultures and spiritual affiliations than any other; in other words, it concentrates on more religions than just the goddess ones.  You can find a different holiday for every day, some in Sweden, some from England -- it's educational and facinating to learn new tidbits.<br />Also along with the daily holidays, it gives the usual information on moon phase, astrological positions and tips on how to utilize this information to the fullest.  Ever wonder if your little love spell is good on Friday?  This tells you if it is and when it will be at its strongest.<br />Along with the daily information, the book is chock-full of history lessons, spells, herbal infusions (topical or consumable) and magical information in general.  I found great cookie recipies for my Summer Solstice party that was not only tasty but reflected the occasion along with some iced Strawberry Mint tea that was just a hit.<br />I highly recommend this almanac if you've been looking everywhere for tips and information on magic and the craft in general.  They not only offer your basic information, but contribute great ideas from other cultures and religions as well as history lessons from ancient Pagan pasts.  A must for the serious practitioner.	2001-12-18
US	51652698	R1F06NTVTFZ2IY	0737000627	19954491	The Bar Guide (Williams-Sonoma Guides)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Fabulous classy little book on traditional drink	I'll admit that I was impressed with the cover as well as the little green ribbon used to mark pages, but when I browsed the book it impressed me enough to buy it.<br />This book is chock full of information and recipes pertaining to the past 130 years.  It has trivia, origins of liquors and pictures as well as history of drinks that are famous today.<br />Examples include:  did you know that Absinthe was eventually replaced with what we use nowadays called Bitters?  Also has origins of liquors (you know &quot;Eau-De-Vie&quot;?  No, I didn't, but if you don't either it's the pear-in-the-bottle liquor -- they literally fasten the bottle to the pears before they get too big and the pear grows inside the bottle.)<br />If you're looking for a guide to help you make that &quot;time period&quot; party just right, this is the one for you.  Tells you how to stock your bar properly, glasses to use and drinks for special occasions, such as Wassail for Christmas and tropical drinks from the 40s.  You name an ingredient -- they've got a drink for it.<br />If you're not a social drinker, this pretty much makes a good read.  I've literally curled up in bed just browsing the information aside from the recipes.<br />A must have for the serious bartender-wannabe for authentic drinks and history.	2001-09-20
US	51652698	R2AHV1GWVZNNZQ	0425168468	713884628	Practical Magic	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great book -- almost a continuation of the movie	I loved &quot;Practical Magic&quot; the movie when it came out. Mostly due to the fact that it took a different twist towards what &quot;witches&quot; are and kind of stuck to the modern definition that they are more peaceful people -- of course, there's a bit of Hollywood thrown in, but it's forgiveable since &quot;Witches of Eastwick&quot; was so much fun as well. The book, however, is much more fun. If you've seen the movie, you should know that it's based on about 3/8 of the book. It is lengthy, but enjoyable as well. If they were to make a movie out of the whole book, it probably would end up a mini-series on TV. Not only to we get to see what happened to Sally and Gillian, but we get a more indepth look and relationship with Sally's daughters as well. We see the torment they went through school in details, we see their problems with men and boys, growing up, falling in love and searching for happiness. It's more realistic than the movie and it's relatable, which always gets me to keep the books I read in the end. The usage of magic is mostly limited to &quot;thought&quot; and small vocal incantations. Remember the woman who wanted the man to leave his wife and become her lover? We get to see what happens to her -- and remember &quot;be careful what you wish for...&quot; Other than that, I will not reveal any spoilers. It's not just about witches -- it's about women. It's a good book and it's fun. Unfortunately, the two aunts are more developed in the movie than the book, but you'll see why Sally, Gillian and the daughters are more focused upon than they are. Highly recommended reading for those who love a really good book.	2001-08-27
US	51652698	R3B04IIA8MG6A	0201731339	166133502	Fireworks 4 for Windows & Macintosh (Visual QuickStart Guide)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great for the computer savy user	I truly enjoy the Quickstart series of computer books. They're informative, detailed and the content is easy to find. In fact, their books were used as my textbooks in college and I liked them so much I continue to use them. But I won't say that these books aren't for a specific type of person. I will explain. If you've ever picked up a Whatever-for-Dummies book, or the Idiot's-Guide-for-something or any kind of Textbooks-for-Morons you either like them or hate them. Why? Because they all seem to be written at the same level meaning they are real beginner books. If you are the type of person who doesn't know how to work a mouse, then I suggest that you stick to Dummy books. The Quickbooks are more geared towards people who like to play with programs to figure them out. They do give brief explanations of the basics, and I mean: &quot;This is a pallet, this is a brush&quot; but they only do it briefly. They are non-patronizing to the people out there who have a knack for figuring programs out. Quickbooks are also informative. If you need information on a specific topic, such as adjusting contrast, you'll usually find it within seconds through the glossary. Not only that, but there are a number of visual aids to reference and shows step-by-step what you're going to do or use. Sometimes, they even include URLs to pages on the web. The details are also worth their while to read. They give plenty of additional tips to use that you might not think of. It will usually be in a side box with a &quot;did you know&quot; kind of title. These have helped in my work plenty of times and given me ideas. Plus, these books are for Mac or PC which is a plus for me considering sometimes I have to work on one or the other platform and don't always know the keystrokes or commands which can be quite different from each other. Again, these are reference books. They are not tutorial books for the ultimate beginner. I continue to use these books with my work and enjoy them thoroughly. I recommend these books for people who like to play with programs and need something to look back on and research further.mend these books for people who like to play with programs and need something to look back on and research further.	2001-08-27
US	51652698	RT5Z3UFHC3L4A	0201702584	272672675	Director 8 for Macintosh and Windows, Fifth Edition	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great for the computer Savy	I truly enjoy the Quickstart series of computer books. They're informative, detailed and the content is easy to find. In fact, their books were used as my textbooks in college and I liked them so much I continue to use them. But I won't say that these books aren't for a specific type of person. I will explain. If you've ever picked up a Whatever-for-Dummies book, or the Idiot's-Guide-for-something or any kind of Textbooks-for-Morons you either like them or hate them. Why? Because they all seem to be written at the same level meaning they are real beginner books. If you are the type of person who doesn't know how to work a mouse, then I suggest that you stick to Dummy books. The Quickbooks are more geared towards people who like to play with programs to figure them out. They do give brief explanations of the basics, and I mean: &quot;This is a pallet, this is a brush&quot; but they only do it briefly. They are non-patronizing to the people out there who have a knack for figuring programs out. Quickbooks are also informative. If you need information on a specific topic, such as adjusting contrast, you'll usually find it within seconds through the glossary. Not only that, but there are a number of visual aids to reference and shows step-by-step what you're going to do or use. Sometimes, they even include URLs to pages on the web. The details are also worth their while to read. They give plenty of additional tips to use that you might not think of. It will usually be in a side box with a &quot;did you know&quot; kind of title. These have helped in my work plenty of times and given me ideas. Plus, these books are for Mac or PC which is a plus for me considering sometimes I have to work on one or the other platform and don't always know the keystrokes or commands which can be quite different from each other. Again, these are reference books. They are not tutorial books for the ultimate beginner. I continue to use these books with my work and enjoy them thoroughly. I recommend these books for people who like to play with programs and need something to look back on and research further.mend these books for people who like to play with programs and need something to look back on and research further.	2001-08-27
US	51652698	R2OLDHZPT2XJXC	097067435X	849941100	Healing Pain and Grief	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Lovely comfort of spoken word	I haven't really used self-hypnosis tapes before but when I got the opportunity to try Elena's tapes, I was curious and interested.  My family had gone through quite an ordeal with several deaths in our family in a short amount of time so I was anxious to try and &quot;heal&quot; myself and maybe some family members.<br />Elena's tapes are wonderful.  She takes you through a meditative journey by talking you through it and I felt relaxed and comfortable.  I loaned this to my mom who really enjoyed it.  She became so relaxed and wanted to know more about her tapes.<br />I recommend Elena's tape to people who are trying to heal from a life experience that was not necessarily pleasant and who are trying to cope with life.	2001-08-17
US	51652698	R7J6HVT8Q4J4K	0688137911	354527715	How to Survive the Loss of a Parent: A Guide For Adults	Books	1	41	48	N	N	What to expect, not what to do about it	This was the first book that I bought after my father died. At this writing, I'm a 28 year old female with a surviving mother and brother. My mother was the one to go to group councelling, but being a private person, I felt otherwise and sought solice in a book. Boy, did I end up in a &quot;group&quot; with this book. Basically, the book is pretty much written about a group going through &quot;death therapy&quot; and all of their different experiences and reactions. Granted, I could relate with some of them and discovered that some reactions of my own and my family was normal, but the frustrating thing was trying to understand how to handle them. I kept saying to myself: &quot;Okay, I know that's happening, but what do I do?&quot; In other words, I unfortunately did not find much comfort within this book as it really gave me no answers. Whereas the author claims to her group in the beginning: &quot;You're coming into this group, but don't expect results&quot; seems like a cop-out. Why on earth did I buy this book if I wasn't looking for answers? Isn't that the point? Unfortunately, it read like snippets of novels about these people's lives and really didn't give much more information than what they were going through. It was only until the last chapter (roughly 10 pages out of 236 to be precise, that the author gives 10 paragraphs on how to handle a loss. Then why did it take 226 to get to what I wanted?) I was uncomfortable with the book from the beginning. In fact, throughout most of the book I found it unbearable. Reading the tragic things these people went through really did nothing but depress me. Whether it was reading on how they were fighting, or sleepless nights crying or how family feuds got downright nasty over inheritance, it took me six months to get through the whole thing. I was seeking comfort -- not looking for people &quot;just like me.&quot; It seemed more of a pity party than help. I wanted to make progress, not reflect on anger and sadness. I don't recommend this book if you've recently suffered a loss. I'm afraid that it didn't give much comfort to me and I will probably toss my copy. It's not very spiritual, and I found it more to tout how great the author was as a psychologist than a genuine benefit to the bereaved. I recommend you shop around or seek out councelling through your funeral home or church (either or usually know of support groups.) This book really didn't do much for me at all and I won't be recommending it.n't recommend this book if you've recently suffered a loss. I'm afraid that it didn't give much comfort to me and I will probably toss my copy. It's not very spiritual, and I found it more to tout how great the author was as a psychologist than a genuine benefit to the bereaved. I recommend you shop around or seek out councelling through your funeral home or church (either or usually know of support groups.) This book really didn't do much for me at all and I won't be recommending it.	2001-08-02
US	51652698	RMLZLRAD44YVD	0201354349	600530784	Access 2000 for Windows (Visual QuickStart Guide)	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	A great reference	I'm surprised at the feedback I've seen on this book because I truly enjoy the Quickstart series of computer books. They're informative, detailed and the content is easy to find. In fact, their books were used as my textbooks in college and I liked them so much I continue to use them. But I won't say that these books aren't for a specific type of person. I will explain.<br />If you've ever picked up a Whatever-for-Dummies book, or the Idiot's-Guide-for-something or any kind of Textbooks-for-Morons you either like them or hate them. Why? Because they all seem to be written at the same level meaning they are real beginner books. If you are the type of person who doesn't know how to work a mouse, then I suggest that you stick to Dummy books. The Quickbooks are more geared towards people who like to play with programs to figure them out. They do give brief explanations of the basics, and I mean: &quot;This is a pallet, this is a brush&quot; but they only do it briefly. They are non-patronizing to the people out there who have a knack for figuring programs out.<br />Quickbooks are also informative. If you need information on a specific topic, such as adjusting contrast, you'll usually find it within seconds through the glossary. Not only that, but there are a number of visual aids to reference and shows step-by-step what you're going to do or use. Sometimes, they even include URLs to pages on the web.<br />The details are also worth their while to read. They give plenty of additional tips to use that you might not think of. It will usually be in a side box with a &quot;did you know&quot; kind of title. These have helped in my work plenty of times and given me ideas.<br />Plus, these books are for Mac or PC which is a plus for me considering sometimes I have to work on one or the other platform and don't always know the keystrokes or commands which can be quite different from each other.<br />Again, these are reference books. They are not tutorial books for the ultimate beginner. I continue to use these books with my work and enjoy them thoroughly. I recommend these books for people who like to play with programs and need something to look back on and research further.eginner. I continue to use these books with my work and enjoy them thoroughly. I recommend these books for people who like to play with programs and need something to look back on and research further.	2001-08-02
US	51652698	R28NC1NOFN99RW	0201734303	337708164	Dreamweaver 4 for Windows & Macintosh (Visual QuickStart Guide)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A great reference	I'm surprised at the feedback I've seen on this book because I truly enjoy the Quickstart series of computer books. They're informative, detailed and the content is easy to find. In fact, their books were used as my textbooks in college and I liked them so much I continue to use them. But I won't say that these books aren't for a specific type of person. I will explain.<br />If you've ever picked up a Whatever-for-Dummies book, or the Idiot's-Guide-for-something or any kind of Textbooks-for-Morons you either like them or hate them. Why? Because they all seem to be written at the same level meaning they are real beginner books. If you are the type of person who doesn't know how to work a mouse, then I suggest that you stick to Dummy books. The Quickbooks are more geared towards people who like to play with programs to figure them out. They do give brief explanations of the basics, and I mean: &quot;This is a pallet, this is a brush&quot; but they only do it briefly. They are non-patronizing to the people out there who have a knack for figuring programs out.<br />Quickbooks are also informative. If you need information on a specific topic, such as adjusting contrast, you'll usually find it within seconds through the glossary. Not only that, but there are a number of visual aids to reference and shows step-by-step what you're going to do or use. Sometimes, they even include URLs to pages on the web.<br />The details are also worth their while to read. They give plenty of additional tips to use that you might not think of. It will usually be in a side box with a &quot;did you know&quot; kind of title. These have helped in my work plenty of times and given me ideas.<br />Plus, these books are for Mac or PC which is a plus for me considering sometimes I have to work on one or the other platform and don't always know the keystrokes or commands which can be quite different from each other.<br />Again, these are reference books. They are not tutorial books for the ultimate beginner. I continue to use these books with my work and enjoy them thoroughly. I recommend these books for people who like to play with programs and need something to look back on and research further.eginner. I continue to use these books with my work and enjoy them thoroughly. I recommend these books for people who like to play with programs and need something to look back on and research further.	2001-08-02
US	51652698	RT091P6TT24FU	1886785058	765319782	Reiki: The Healing Touch	Books	4	29	29	N	N	Good manual for practitioners with a knowledge of Reiki	When I first started doing Reiki, this was one of the manuals that my teacher had included in her package of first degree attunement.  Unfortunately, my teacher didn't give too much on the background of Reiki and when I decided to go into Reiki I really was depending on her for information.  This book was fairly good, but not as informative as other manuals.<br />Mr. Rand does a fairly good job with descriptions of the power behind Reiki, but because of the whole &quot;the symbols are secret&quot; attitude, I feel that he skipped some information about Reiki to keep it traditional.  Whereas I can understand the notion to honor the tradition of the privacy of Reiki it with the combination of the lack of information from my teacher left me with plenty of questions.  I had to seek out other books to complete my curiosities.<br />However, it is not a bad book -- but very good with discovering the basics.  I've read the reviews on his book and don't feel that they are really promoting his business, but he does have a clinic to support and since this is the manual that he distributes to his students, I can understand that he gives information on himself. (Please also note that I am not a student of William Rand.)<br />He has throroughly added to the manual with revised editions over the years and it has grown considerably larger with updated information of Dr. Usui and another path of Reiki considered the Eastern Tradition (whereas the typical four that most people learn to obtain the Reiki Master status, it seems that it really is only one level of eight.)  He is very descriptive on hand positions, which can easily be forgotten after the first attunement and also gives diagrams.<br />Mr. Rand also gives information on how to contact him and where he can sell supplies.  In my opinion, most people who read &quot;help&quot; books like to find out more about the author especially if they truly enjoy their books or have heard from others that they enjoyed his work firsthand.  Considering this, I see no problem with relaying information regarding his classes or tools.<br />This book is good for Reiki practitioners who have knowledge of Reiki and want to read indepth on experiments with Reiki as well as a &quot;how to&quot; guide.  Again, this is his manual for his classes.  It is good for Masters to use  for their students, especially if they have already given plenty of information on Reiki.  A good bonus to already distributed information for students, but not the best.Considering this, I see no problem with relaying information regarding his classes or tools.<br />This book is good for Reiki practitioners who have knowledge of Reiki and want to read indepth on experiments with Reiki as well as a &quot;how to&quot; guide.  Again, this is his manual for his classes.  It is good for Masters to use  for their students, especially if they have already given plenty of information on Reiki.  A good bonus to already distributed information for students, but not the best.	2001-07-30
US	51652698	R1XOS6MHNI4RY0	0895947366	768877570	Essential Reiki: A Complete Guide to an Ancient Healing Art	Books	4	365	375	N	N	Great reference book	Being a Reiki practitioner I prefer Diane's guide over the rest.  Of course, it is not the be-end of all books dedicated to the craft of Reiki, but it is a great guide.<br />For those who don't know about Reiki, it is the art of holistic hands-on healing with the use of sacred symbols drawn on the palms of the hands of the practitioner and on the &quot;patient&quot; in order to start the flow of healing energy from his or her God. (I know that is a rough definition, but please understand that there are whole books dedicated to what Reiki is.)<br />The reason why this book is so controversial is because, as far as I know, Diane decided to publish the actual drawings of the symbols which is considered taboo.  The symbols are supposed to be secret -- only revealed to the people who actually get an attunement (and people who have not received a Reiki attunement cannot perform Reiki on another person. Although that has been questioned as well.)  Because of this, Diane has been looked upon as a type of &quot;black sheep&quot; of the Reiki community.<br />However, I personally am not one for secrecy and find her book extremely informative.  Most Reiki guides keep out so much information on Reiki, because it is considered &quot;secret&quot; that their manuals for first-time practitioners can be confusing. Obscure references do not make a master of the student.  Personally, I've had practitioners of my own become confused and ask questions constantly.  After having them buy her book instead, they understand more.  In other words, despite the fact that Diane's book &quot;crosses the line&quot; in some areas, she explains in great detail what each symbol means, when they are given to practitioners as well as step-by-step instructions on how to use them.  She also says that one cannot perform Reiki without the attunements and that each level a person goes through they are able to receive more symbols to work with.  She also includes others she has personally discovered for experimentation as well.<br />Diane's book is not perfect, but thorough and informative.  Through the history of Reiki, it has been documented that Hawayo Katata (the last Grand Reiki Master) gave different but similar symbols to her 12 students she attuned to Reiki Master status.  Why, no one really knows.  In other words, the symbols are slighly different to many Reiki practitioners and hers are not considered the absolute correct ones.  But then again, everyone in the Reiki community claims that their symbols are the correct symbols.  When it comes down to it, there is a &quot;power&quot; symbol, an &quot;emotional healing&quot; symbol, &quot;distance&quot; symbol, &quot;master&quot; symbol and an &quot;attunement&quot; symbol that most everyone uses.  How they are drawn is the actual debate.<br />Do I recommend this book to beginner Reiki students?  It really should be up to their teachers.  Some teachers are very informative and give out pamphlets on their methods and the individual symbols.  Unfortunately, I've met students whose teachers don't give any direction at all and are very confused or eager to learn more.  This book is a great start to those practitioners who want more information, but other texts should be considered as well in order to make a well-rounded practitioner.  Reiki Masters have nothing to lose with looking at this book.  As for people who have not received Reiki attunements and want to learn more, I suppose that this book is a good choice, but personally I have to say that I bought this book before I received my first attunement and honestly it didn't make a lick of sense until I actually became a practitioner.  Then again, this is my own experience.<br />A thorough manual in addition to other Reiki books, a good reference for Reiki Masters as well as giving new ideas and not necessarily a good book for non-Reiki practitioners, but give it a try as well.  Otherwise, I recommend personally looking up teachers in your personal areas as well assurfing the internet for information.surfing the internet for information.	2001-07-26
US	51652698	R2HM3VSN9NOP6C	0201713098	278789139	Photoshop 6 for Windows & Macintosh	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A non-patronizing book	I'm surprised at the feedback I've seen on this book because I truly enjoy the Quickstart series of computer books. They're informative, detailed and the content is easy to find. In fact, their books were used as my textbooks in college and I liked them so much I continue to use them. But I won't say that these books aren't for a specific type of person. I will explain.<br />If you've ever picked up a Whatever-for-Dummies book, or the Idiot's-Guide-for-something or any kind of Textbooks-for-Morons you either like them or hate them. Why? Because they all seem to be written at the same level meaning they are real beginner books. If you are the type of person who doesn't know how to work a mouse, then I suggest that you stick to Dummy books. The Quickbooks are more geared towards people who like to play with programs to figure them out. They do give brief explanations of the basics, and I mean: &quot;This is a pallet, this is a brush&quot; but they only do it briefly. They are non-patronizing to the people out there who have a knack for figuring programs out.<br />Quickbooks are also informative. If you need information on a specific topic, such as adjusting contrast, you'll usually find it within seconds through the glossary. Not only that, but there are a number of visual aids to reference and shows step-by-step what you're going to do or use. Sometimes, they even include URLs to pages on the web (but that may be aimed towards different topics other than PhotoShop.)<br />The details are also worth their while to read. They give plenty of additional tips to use that you might not think of. It will usually be in a side box with a &quot;did you know&quot; kind of title. These have helped in my work plenty of times and given me ideas.<br />Plus, these books are for Mac or PC which is a plus for me considering sometimes I have to work on one or the other platform and don't always know the keystrokes or commands which can be quite different from each other.<br />Again, these are reference books. They are not tutorial books for the ultimate beginner. I continue to use these books with my work and enjoy them thoroughly. I recommend these books for people who like to play with programs and need something to look back on and research further.se are reference books. They are not tutorial books for the ultimate beginner. I continue to use these books with my work and enjoy them thoroughly. I recommend these books for people who like to play with programs and need something to look back on and research further.	2001-05-15
US	51652698	R3FGQSDJQDVVJY	0451199502	615533378	Reaching to Heaven	Books	1	34	55	N	N	This man is a fake and fraud	I cannot stand this man who has taken it upon himself to prey upon the berieved for money.  How do I know this?  I'll tell you...<br />I've watched a number of programs with this man and noticed a number of interesting things.  1.) He misses his guesses on deceased people as much as he &quot;gets&quot; them (that's a 50% average, folks,) 2.) He blurts very common names out to the audience (i.e., I feel a &quot;Mary&quot; out there) 3.) He dodges very skeptical questions and makes plenty of excuses 4.) When he is cornered by a skeptic and can't weasel his way out of the question, he makes some phoney excuse about &quot;Only God knows...&quot;  5.) He can't give ANY feedback to people who don't respond to any of his questions -- only the ones that do.<br />I've also done plenty of research on him, including finding some interesting information on him on the Internet.  Apparently, a small TV station who first put him on the air said, &quot;When we first met him, he was very nice, he drove his little car over and talked to a lot of people.  But now, if we want him to come back, he demands a limousine, specific foods, and is very, very expensive, let alone nasty.&quot;  Start searching the internet, people, you'll find all kinds of stuff on this guy.<br />His background consists of being an ACTOR and a writer.  He's &quot;always&quot; had the gift.  Sorry, but I've seen enough to know this guy is just a liar as well as watching the infamous debunking on 20/20.  When he was cornered, he got all snooty and said, &quot;You roll back your tape and you'll see that I never asked that woman anything about her grandmother.&quot;  Well, guess what?  They did roll back the tape.  Between takes, apparently he didn't think they were still filming and he DID ask her if she had a grandparent who died.  He didn't say too much after that.  James could have easily gotten his &quot;messages from heaven&quot; from general beliefs such as the tunnel of light, the great city, and he is not convincing... he's copying and boring.<br />People, if you really want to read a great book on a good medium, read &quot;Lessons from the Light&quot; by George Anderson.  THIS guy is phenomenal.  Never heard of him?  That says volumes to me.  James Van Praagh knew how to &quot;market&quot; himself -- George is more humble than that.  To give some background on this guy before I go into the book, I have seen George Anderson in action and find him believable to the point of amazing. When he speaks to the dead, he insists on not getting any feedback from the person he is speaking to -- simply yes or no answers only and he goes into great detail about the loved ones who have moved on. But that isn't the part that is phenomenal... George has a habit of giving people &quot;gifts&quot; from the deceased. One event in particular I remember would be when he was on the Howie Mandel show and he was councelling a Jewish man (Howie's producer,) about his deceased mother. He then pulled out a very unique small box with designs on it that was apparently Orthodox-Jewish and told him that it was from his mother who wanted to prove to him that she was there. The man was shocked and said that his mother owned one exactly like it when she was alive. Howie went on to say that when he met George Anderson he was surprised when George blurted out: &quot;Your dad says that you should be taking your pills.&quot; Howie explained that no one knew about these pills he stopped taking and it was impossible that George knew it -- he believed that his father really did tell him through George.  Plus, I don't see any news stations trying to call him a fake.<br />You want a real medium, check out George Anderson.  His work helped us tremendously when we lost my father.  In fact, this guy changed my life for the better.  Trust me on this one. If you skip this charlitain and read George I guarantee you'll be satisfied.onvincing... he's copying and boring.<br />People, if you really want to read a great book on a good medium, read &quot;Lessons from the Light&quot; by George Anderson.  THIS guy is phenomenal.  Never heard of him?  That says volumes to me.  James Van Praagh knew how to &quot;market&quot; himself -- George is more humble than that.  To give some background on this guy before I go into the book, I have seen George Anderson in action and find him believable to the point of amazing. When he speaks to the dead, he insists on not getting any feedback from the person he is speaking to -- simply yes or no answers only and he goes into great detail about the loved ones who have moved on. But that isn't the part that is phenomenal... George has a habit of giving people &quot;gifts&quot; from the deceased. One event in particular I remember would be when he was on the Howie Mandel show and he was councelling a Jewish man (Howie's producer,) about his deceased mother. He then pulled out a very unique small box with designs on it that was apparently Orthodox-Jewish and told him that it was from his mother who wanted to prove to him that she was there. The man was shocked and said that his mother owned one exactly like it when she was alive. Howie went on to say that when he met George Anderson he was surprised when George blurted out: &quot;Your dad says that you should be taking your pills.&quot; Howie explained that no one knew about these pills he stopped taking and it was impossible that George knew it -- he believed that his father really did tell him through George.  Plus, I don't see any news stations trying to call him a fake.  <br />You want a real medium, check out George Anderson.  His work helped us tremendously when we lost my father.  In fact, this guy changed my life for the better.  Trust me on this one. If you skip this charlitain and read George I guarantee you'll be satisfied.	2001-05-11
US	51652698	R1PENLS7VV48YN	0451201698	446979954	Healing Grief: Reclaiming Life After Any Loss	Books	1	50	71	N	N	This guy is a fake and a phoney	I cannot stand this man who has taken it upon himself to prey upon the berieved for money.  How do I know this?  I'll tell you...<br />I've watched a number of programs with this man and noticed a number of interesting things.  1.) He misses his guesses on deceased people as much as he &quot;gets&quot; them (that's a 50% average, folks,) 2.) He blurts very common names out to the audience (i.e., I feel a &quot;Mary&quot; out there) 3.) He dodges very skeptical questions and makes plenty of excuses 4.) When he is cornered by a skeptic and can't weasel his way out of the question, he makes some phoney excuse about &quot;Only God knows...&quot;  5.) He can't give ANY feedback to people who don't respond to any of his questions -- only the ones that do.<br />I've also done plenty of research on him, including finding some interesting information on him on the Internet.  Apparently, a small TV station who first put him on the air said, &quot;When we first met him, he was very nice, he drove his little car over and talked to a lot of people.  But now, if we want him to come back, he demands a limousine, specific foods, and is very, very expensive, let alone nasty.&quot;  Start searching the internet, people, you'll find all kinds of stuff on this guy.<br />His background consists of being an ACTOR and a writer.  He's &quot;always&quot; had the gift.  Sorry, but I've seen enough to know this guy is just a liar as well as watching the infamous debunking on 20/20.  When he was cornered, he got all snooty and said, &quot;You roll back your tape and you'll see that I never asked that woman anything about her grandmother.&quot;  Well, guess what?  They did roll back the tape.  Between takes, apparently he didn't think they were still filming and he DID ask her if she had a grandparent who died.  He didn't say too much after that.  James could have easily gotten his &quot;messages from heaven&quot; from general beliefs such as the tunnel of light, the great city, and he is not convincing... he's copying and boring.<br />People, if you really want to read a great book on a good medium, read &quot;Lessons from the Light&quot; by George Anderson.  THIS guy is phenomenal.  Never heard of him?  That says volumes to me.  James Van Praagh knew how to &quot;market&quot; himself -- George is more humble than that.  To give some background on this guy before I go into the book, I have seen George Anderson in action and find him believable to the point of amazing. When he speaks to the dead, he insists on not getting any feedback from the person he is speaking to -- simply yes or no answers only and he goes into great detail about the loved ones who have moved on. But that isn't the part that is phenomenal... George has a habit of giving people &quot;gifts&quot; from the deceased. One event in particular I remember would be when he was on the Howie Mandel show and he was councelling a Jewish man (Howie's producer,) about his deceased mother. He then pulled out a very unique small box with designs on it that was apparently Orthodox-Jewish and told him that it was from his mother who wanted to prove to him that she was there. The man was shocked and said that his mother owned one exactly like it when she was alive. Howie went on to say that when he met George Anderson he was surprised when George blurted out: &quot;Your dad says that you should be taking your pills.&quot; Howie explained that no one knew about these pills he stopped taking and it was impossible that George knew it -- he believed that his father really did tell him through George.  Plus, I don't see any news stations trying to call him a fake.<br />You want a real medium, check out George Anderson.  His work helped us tremendously when we lost my father.  In fact, this guy changed my life for the better.  Trust me on this one. If you skip this charlitain and read George I guarantee you'll be satisfied.onvincing... he's copying and boring.<br />People, if you really want to read a great book on a good medium, read &quot;Lessons from the Light&quot; by George Anderson.  THIS guy is phenomenal.  Never heard of him?  That says volumes to me.  James Van Praagh knew how to &quot;market&quot; himself -- George is more humble than that.  To give some background on this guy before I go into the book, I have seen George Anderson in action and find him believable to the point of amazing. When he speaks to the dead, he insists on not getting any feedback from the person he is speaking to -- simply yes or no answers only and he goes into great detail about the loved ones who have moved on. But that isn't the part that is phenomenal... George has a habit of giving people &quot;gifts&quot; from the deceased. One event in particular I remember would be when he was on the Howie Mandel show and he was councelling a Jewish man (Howie's producer,) about his deceased mother. He then pulled out a very unique small box with designs on it that was apparently Orthodox-Jewish and told him that it was from his mother who wanted to prove to him that she was there. The man was shocked and said that his mother owned one exactly like it when she was alive. Howie went on to say that when he met George Anderson he was surprised when George blurted out: &quot;Your dad says that you should be taking your pills.&quot; Howie explained that no one knew about these pills he stopped taking and it was impossible that George knew it -- he believed that his father really did tell him through George.  Plus, I don't see any news stations trying to call him a fake.  <br />You want a real medium, check out George Anderson.  His work helped us tremendously when we lost my father.  In fact, this guy changed my life for the better.  Trust me on this one. If you skip this charlitain and read George I guarantee you'll be satisfied.	2001-05-11
US	51652698	R11VIVNN3NOU2X	0439284031	69383288	Harry Potter Schoolbooks: Quidditch Through the Ages and Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them	Books	4	41	43	N	N	A lovely addition to the Harry Potter series	As we all know, the Harry Potter books are taking the world by storm and Rowlings is aware of this as well.  Of course, she can crank out the 300+ page novels out as fast as she can, but not fast enough as the next book isn't due for awhile.  So she decided to give us something to whet our appetites while proceeds go towards an English charity for children.  Bravo.<br />So what are these books?  Actually, these are novellas if they can be called anything.  We've read about Harry's books that he has to buy every year and now we get to see what's inside of them.<br />&quot;Quidditch Through the Ages&quot; is simply the history of Quidditch including descriptions of players, plays and equipment.  Actually, although it is fiction, it is a great asset for those out there who knew about Quidditch from reading the novels, but didn't quite understand the game; this helps clarify it.  Also, gives very humorous details of the &quot;beginning&quot; of Quidditch long, long ago when it was used with rocks instead of a Snitch (includes stats of the victims as well. :)<br />&quot;Fantastic Beasts and where to find them&quot; is one of Harry's textbooks from Hagrid's class.  This includes a dictionary listing of creatures we've read about in the Potter novels as well as descriptions of some we've never heard before (I wonder if this is a hint into the future books?!?)<br />But that isn't the gem for both these books.  Apparently, during class and suffering from boredom, Harry and his classmates like to &quot;doodle&quot; little notes across these novellas to each other, such as &quot;Harry loves Moaning Mertle&quot; with a scratching out across them.  Absolutely cute!  Also, look in little details such as the foreward from Professor Dumbledore and why it's been released to Muggles.<br />The only reason I can't give it five stars would be they are in softcover and can be bent and worn easily as well as being kind of &quot;thin&quot; for &quot;textbooks&quot;.  Hardcover books are my choice for books I want to keep for my family down the line, but for now this has to do and the price can't be beat either.<br />A great addition to the Potter collectors and a big help as reference to them as well.  Plus, all proceeds go to charity -- can't be beat!choice for books I want to keep for my family down the line, but for now this has to do and the price can't be beat either.<br />A great addition to the Potter collectors and a big help as reference to them as well.  Plus, all proceeds go to charity -- can't be beat!	2001-05-09
US	51652698	R30RHYEG4XSBIJ	1881098109	323163860	Witches' Almanac 2000	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A delight to read and collect	I absolutely adore this little &quot;book&quot; and look forward to it every spring for the new year.  It is chock full of little tidbits and lore that is an absolute delight to peruse with its &quot;woodcut&quot; graphics that are detailed and lovely.<br />First of all, there is always a section on what's been happening in the news and the news always has to do with something metaphysical or spiritual.  For instance, one passage had new information on &quot;Nessie&quot; the Lock Ness and the second had interesting speculation that an armor dealer in Italy had possibly found Joan of Arc's suit of armor because it literally fit his 13-year-old girl.  I love these little news clips because they are interesting and informative.<br />There is always a republishing of a fairy tale of some sort and is usually the original form with an explanation of the moral.  Otherwise, there are always various articles and information.  For instance, one passage had to do with the mystical origin of &quot;Scarborough Fair,&quot; by Simon and Garfunkel, one had information on the Egyptian God Set and his origin in Egyptian lore, one had recipes for &quot;moon cookies&quot; for a summer feast, another had information on the different moons and what they represent, another had information on the superstition of the black cat throughout history and how the U.S. is the only one that regards it as bad luck, the list is various and endless... but one thing is for sure: it's an almanac and it reads like one; informative, advising and entertaining.<br />Also, there is always a detailed two-page spread on each horoscope for the year as well as a weather almanac (which I find disturbingly accurate, I must confess,) as well as moon phases and a calendar for the entire year with advice for certain days, famous people's birthdays and moon phases.<br />This is a wonderful little book.  I've read criticism towards this book for the price in regards to the size, but there is NO external advertising.  That is, there's no ad in the back to call LaToya's Jackson's stupid psychic hotline.  Ads such as these usually litter metaphysical newsletters/almanacs in order to help pay for the costs of the book and it is refreshing to have a collectible without them.  Ever see a woman's fashion magazine?  Notice how 3/4 of it is just advertisements?  Ever wish there weren't any?  That's what this is.  In other words, I'd rather pay the extra bucks to see it without them.  Also, this is from an independent publisher (ahem...Witches' Almanac, Inc.) which is why it's a couple of bucks extra.<br />I've been collecting these almanacs for years.  They also have books of theirs that you can order through them such as herbal books, a book of &quot;wisdom&quot; for each day of the year, past issues of the almanac and reprints of them from the 70s as well as much, much more.<br />This is a little treasure of a book that is wonderful to read.  Check it out at your bookstore and you'll love the content.  High recommendation for the serious practitioner, anyone who collects almanacs of various sorts and people who love history and folklore.  A must buy for unique book collections.hat is, there's no ad in the back to call LaToya's Jackson's stupid psychic hotline.  Ads such as these usually litter metaphysical newsletters/almanacs in order to help pay for the costs of the book and it is refreshing to have a collectible without them.  Ever see a woman's fashion magazine?  Notice how 3/4 of it is just advertisements?  Ever wish there weren't any?  That's what this is.  In other words, I'd rather pay the extra bucks to see it without them.  Also, this is from an independent publisher (ahem...Witches' Almanac, Inc.) which is why it's a couple of bucks extra.<br />I've been collecting these almanacs for years.  They also have books of theirs that you can order through them such as herbal books, a book of &quot;wisdom&quot; for each day of the year, past issues of the almanac and reprints of them from the 70s as well as much, much more.<br />This is a little treasure of a book that is wonderful to read.  Check it out at your bookstore and you'll love the content.  High recommendation for the serious practitioner, anyone who collects almanacs of various sorts and people who love history and folklore.  A must buy for unique book collections.	2001-05-02
US	51652698	RZPAE2IXS71BD	0425174166	552977785	George Anderson's Lessons from the Light: Extraordinary Messages of Comfort and Hope from the Other Side	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Amazing man with amazing message	I am an incredible skeptic when it comes to mediums.  I have seen some real winners out there who have been debunked over and over, such as James von Praague, but George Anderson is legit.<br />To give some background on this guy before I go into the book, I have seen George Anderson in action and find him believable to the point of amazing.  When he speaks to the dead, he insists on not getting any feedback from the person he is speaking to -- simply yes or no answers only and he goes into great detail about the loved ones who have moved on.  But that isn't the part that is phenomenal... George has a habit of giving people &quot;gifts&quot; from the deceased.  One event in particular I remember would be when he was on the Howie Mandel show and he was councelling a Jewish man (Howie's producer,) about his deceased mother. He then pulled out a very unique small box with designs on it that was apparently Orthodox-Jewish and told him that it was from his mother who wanted to prove to him that she was there.  The man was shocked and said that his mother owned one exactly like it when she was alive.  Howie went on to say that when he met George Anderson he was surprised when George blurted out: &quot;Your dad says that you should be taking your pills.&quot;  Howie explained that no one knew about these pills he stopped taking and it was impossible that George knew it -- he believed that his father really did tell him through George.<br />This guy is not like the other mediums you've seen.  His biography alone is phenomenal as this mediumship was something he's had for a long time.  He was mistaken for mentally disturbed and almost forced into an insane asylum but was rescued by a doctor when George blurted out a phrase in Hebrew (George is Catholic) that only the doctor's grandmother knew.  The doctor had him released and told his family that George wasn't insane, but very, very gifted.<br />In this book, George not only speaks of what happens to the dead but information for us to follow while we're here on earth as well as explainations to specific issues such as religious differences and why they exist, reincarnation and terminal illness.<br />His book was an incredible comfort for my family when we lost my father to cancer. In fact, we read it aloud when he was dying and &quot;felt&quot; that he was receiving great comfort.  George taught me a lot in his work.  And I now know this:  I miss my father dearly, but I do not wish that he was still here.  Why?  Because he's in a much better place than we are and why would I want to take him away from that?<br />This book is a great comfort.  I recommend it to all of you who have lost someone or are currently losing someone.  God bless.for us to follow while we're here on earth as well as explainations to specific issues such as religious differences and why they exist, reincarnation and terminal illness.<br />His book was an incredible comfort for my family when we lost my father to cancer. In fact, we read it aloud when he was dying and &quot;felt&quot; that he was receiving great comfort.  George taught me a lot in his work.  And I now know this:  I miss my father dearly, but I do not wish that he was still here.  Why?  Because he's in a much better place than we are and why would I want to take him away from that?<br />This book is a great comfort.  I recommend it to all of you who have lost someone or are currently losing someone.  God bless.	2001-05-02
US	51652698	R3CDSB6KJ30YWV	0679454489	312807149	Merrick (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Vampires, witches and death, oh my!	I've loved every one of Anne's vampires and witch books from the beginning.  She has the ability to take a concept we are used to and approach it from a different angle. Merrick, however, is good, but more of an extra chapter to the other witch/vampire books than a novel that stands on it's own.  In other words, if this is the first book by Anne you're picking up, I recommend you start at the beginning with &quot;Interview with a Vampire.&quot;<br />For those of you who are familiar with Anne's writing and style, Merrick is a witch related to the witches in &quot;The Witching Hour,&quot; who comes into contact with the vampires in her other novels.  Throughout all of her books, she has teased us with a cross-over and now she finally did it.<br />Is this a good book?  I sigh and hesitate with this one.  Yes, it's good, but only if you're a die-hard Rice fan and you want to know what's going to happen to Lestat and are curious about another encounter with Claudia (yes, there is another, this time with the help of a voodou witch by the name of Merrick.)<br />However, Anne isn't really up to par with how she wrote the first three vampire novels.  Whereas I couldn't put down &quot;Vampire Lestat&quot; for the sheer fact that each passage was truly intriguing and I was dying to read what was going to happen next, &quot;Merrick&quot; can have it's dry moments.  Unfortunately, this is what happens to excellent authors:  their publishers give them complete creative control and don't recommend anything, such as editing, to spruce up what is already good.  &quot;Merrick&quot; goes off on a tangent about history and backgrounds of characters that I'm sure we'll never see again and only concentrates on our heros and heroines only at the end.  Of course, this isn't nearly as bad as &quot;Violin,&quot; but better and a nice addition to the Vampire Chronicals.<br />If you're an avid reader of Rice, I think you'll like this addition.  Plus, there is a cliffhanger ending that will make you anxious to read the next one in line.  I'll give you a hint:  The Talamasca is getting too pushy!<br />If you're a new reader to Rice, I recommend you start with the first.  I used to say that you can completely skip &quot;Interview with the Vampire,&quot; and go straight to &quot;Vampire Lestat,&quot; but with this one, I think you should go begin with the first as well as read the Witch Chronicals.  Playing catch-up will take time, but that is so you could identify with all of the characters by the time you get to this edition.  Otherwise, you'll enjoy the other novels first and find this one good.<br />Overall, not a bad edition to the Rice collection.  Could have been better, but seemed a novella stretched out to a novel.<br />Also, for those new readers starting out, here's the list in reading order:<br />(Vampire Chronicals)  &quot;Interview with a Vampire&quot; &quot;The Vampire Lestat&quot; &quot;Queen of the Damned&quot; &quot;Tale of the Body Thief&quot; &quot;Memnock the Devil&quot; &quot;Pandora&quot; &quot;The Vampire Armand&quot;<br />(Mayfair Witch Chronicals) &quot;The Witching Hour&quot; &quot;Lasher&quot; &quot;Taltos&quot;<br />P.S., &quot;Vittorio&quot; stands on it's own as a vampire novel not related to the Vampire Chronicals, so don't bother.ke you anxious to read the next one in line.  I'll give you a hint:  The Talamasca is getting too pushy!<br />If you're a new reader to Rice, I recommend you start with the first.  I used to say that you can completely skip &quot;Interview with the Vampire,&quot; and go straight to &quot;Vampire Lestat,&quot; but with this one, I think you should go begin with the first as well as read the Witch Chronicals.  Playing catch-up will take time, but that is so you could identify with all of the characters by the time you get to this edition.  Otherwise, you'll enjoy the other novels first and find this one good.<br />Overall, not a bad edition to the Rice collection.  Could have been better, but seemed a novella stretched out to a novel.<br />Also, for those new readers starting out, here's the list in reading order:<br />(Vampire Chronicals)  &quot;Interview with a Vampire&quot; &quot;The Vampire Lestat&quot; &quot;Queen of the Damned&quot; &quot;Tale of the Body Thief&quot; &quot;Memnock the Devil&quot; &quot;Pandora&quot; &quot;The Vampire Armand&quot;<br />(Mayfair Witch Chronicals) &quot;The Witching Hour&quot; &quot;Lasher&quot; &quot;Taltos&quot;<br />P.S., &quot;Vittorio&quot; stands on it's own as a vampire novel not related to the Vampire Chronicals, so don't bother.	2001-04-29
US	51652698	R285R1BDWJMPSE	0553565915	210436825	Embraced by the Light: The Most Profound and Complete Near-Death Experience Ever	Books	5	7	8	N	N	YOU NEED TO READ THE SECOND BOOK AS WELL TO JUDGE THE FIRST	I read Embraced and was thoroughly moved.  For the first time I felt comfortable with God.  I had never, in my heart, believed that only one type of person belonging to a specific religion would receive salvation,  even though multiple religions today still teach that.  I keep two  copies of this book around (to loan out,) plus I keep Awakening Heart,  which I felt was more credible and truly reinforced the first.  Embraced  was okay, but Awakening was better.  Betty talks about how she encounters a  Russian man who died and was dead for THREE days and then woke up on the  autopsy table (I remember that news story!)He explains to her that we all  see different beings as &quot;God&quot;.  In other words, you have to read  it.  Betty talks so strongly about her love of Jesus, but acknowledges the  fact that He is represented by other &quot;names&quot;.  Do not fully  comprehend the first book until you read the second, what happened to her  after her &quot;visit&quot; and what she is doing now.  Like I said, you  can't judge the first book without reading the second.  I believe this  woman and this woman helped me believe in me and my spiritual life.	1999-06-22
