US	51654819	R2F3KK5XKVTVAR	0891416811	35995058	Currahee!	Books	5	6	7	N	N	THROUGH A WARRIOR'S EYES	War history is best told by those that lived it and not those that have only studied it. This is a point once again proven in Currahee.  Donald Burgett tells his story of World War 2.  His time with the 101st airborne makes for a moving and dramatic tale.  The book overflows with the tales of his heroism and the courage of others.  While Burgett downplays the danger he faced just by his straight forward style, the reader cant help but be amazed as he continuously dodges bullets, hides from artillery, and jumps from low flying airplanes. <br />The book reads fast and is as entertaining today as the day it was published. It gives insight into the mind of a dedicated warrior and a glimpse into what must have faced those that fought  so courageously in WWII.  I highly recommend it for history buffs and for just about anyone that likes a good book.	2001-05-10
US	51654819	RI9LNPA2WHUO	0671047485	629121134	Shallow Graves (John Pellam #1)	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A VIEW OF THINGS TO COME	John Pellam is a film location scout who thinks he has found the perfect setting for a new flick.  The problem is that there are some key town players who dont want the Hollywood big wigs disturbing their small town environment.....or are their reasons more sinister.  What seems to be a series of warnings turns into a deadly game and Pellam must deal with wanna be movie stars, crooked cops, and even a romance or two to find out who is out to get him. <br />The pretense of the book has possibilites but the dedicated Deaver fan will be left a little gloomy from the shallow plot of SHALLOW GRAVES.  The roller coaster thrill ride that usually marks a good Deaver novel is nowhere to be found. The character development is almost non existant and the subjects remain....shallow.  There is one sudden flip at the end of the book that gives you a glimpse of the master suspense writer that Deaver was destined to become.<br />Sadly the book is average. It wont bore you to tears but it doesnt keep you on the edge of your seat either. A worthwhile read for a true Deaver fan but others should stear clear.	2001-04-12
US	51654819	R33Q0EX2B59KWK	0425103552	668211791	Marine Sniper: 93 Confirmed Kills	Books	5	171	175	N	N	A STORY OF SELF DISCIPLINE AND HEROISM	There are few books that capture the essence of a Marine the way that this tale does. Gunny Hatchcock was more than a Marine, he was also a heroe and a pioneer.  His mastering of the sniper craft and his eventual legend were responsible for the ultimate success of the Marine Corps sniper program.<br />Charles Henderson does an admirable job with this book but realistically it is a story that sells itself.  This narration details some of the many missions Hatchock underwent during two tours of Vietnam. It chronicles the more often than not painful self discipline that made Hatchcock the deadliest sniper in Vietnam.  The author also peppers the account with enough of Hatchcock's personal life to show what a great man and Marine he really was.<br />The tale is amazing enough in relaying how great of a shot that Hatchcock was but the true mark is hit in that is shows that Hatchcock was a devoted Marine. To say he was dedicated would be a dramatic understatement.  The tale of his stalking the Vietnam general and the patience it took to get that one shot is worth reading the book alone.  It is a testament to not only his training but his own self discipline.<br />The book reads in a flash. I have read it several times and it hasn't lost any interest.  A must read for Marines, military and history buffs, and just anyone curious about a tale of a hero.	2001-03-27
US	51654819	R1EU5XXZL6RNZ1	0451203658	277823768	Actual Innocence	Books	4	19	21	N	N	MISCARRIAGES OF JSUTICE	DNA has uncovered a number of truths. Not since finger print identification became main streamed has science had such a tumultuous impact on criminal investigation. The truth of DNA, according to the authors, is that an alarming number of innocent people have been sentenced to death.  While the book serves as a sounding board to discuss the benefits of DNA its merit rests more in its overall discussion of the criminal justice system.<br />This book is a non stop series of accounts of justice gone wrong.  While Shceck and his cronies are heavy with their opinions, the problem is that even if you dont like them, you cant argue with the science.  Through their accounts they relay stories of men wrongly convicted by mistaken identity, misled witnesses, shabby defense attourneys, police bumblings, and even law enforcement and prosecutorial misconduct.  All of these grievous errors were realized due to DNA testing.<br />More alarming than the number of innocents convicted and possibly executed is the trend for prosecutors and judges to disallow DNA testing after convictions. The facts according to the authors are that there are thousands more that could be freed  with DNA testing.<br />Although science is not the stop gap for flaws in any criminal justice system, the authors convincingly argue that it would be a beneficial start. The opinions and accounts in this book are both informative and entertaining.<br />The book reads well and holds interest throughout. It loses a star due to the more often than not preachy tone of the authors. There point is better taken with the facts and not the lecturing. However it is a book well worth reading and must have for true crime and sociology fans.	2001-03-22
US	51654819	R3FZ2P792HWEFD	0316666009	30029813	1st to Die (Women's Murder Club)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	AN EDGE OF YOUR SEAT SUPENSE PACKED MASTERPIECE!!!!	When at his best, noone packs a mystery curveball like James Patterson. Having read and loved all of his Alex Cross novels I ventured into new territory with 1ST TO DIE and read this great thriller in a flash.<br />Lindsay Boxer is a top notch female detective with San Francisco Homicide. Her skills look like they may have met their match when a newlywed couple is savagely defiled and murdered on the night of their wedding.  At the same time she learns that an illness may cut her down in her prime.  The killing becomes a series and Lindsay isnt to proud to enlist the aid of some old and new friends. Off duty she collaberates with the chief medical examiner, the assistant D.A., and a hot shot reporter, all of whom happen to be women.  When they put their heads together they come up with a sure fire suspect who should be a slam dunk conviction.....or is it?<br />As always Patterson keeps you guessing, this time right up to the very end. There are no shortage of surprises. The nature of the prime suspect gives you an insight into the diabolical imagination that Patterson must have.....we are talking a great thriller with Stephen King chills.  <br />Most of the characters are strong and Patterson doesnt sway off course too much with the romantic and illness subplots. The book not only holds your attention but it demands that you not put the book down because you are convinced that every sentence has the possibility of an explosive twist. A solid five star read and a great book for Patterson fans and any fan of good thrilling fiction.	2001-03-13
US	51654819	R2HR6TU125DJX7	0684848171	403320766	Making the Corps	Books	5	0	1	N	N	JUST LIKE BEING THERE.....ALMOST	While words could not fully explain both the fear of entering and the pride of leaving Parris Island South Carolina, first as a recruit and then as a Marine, Thomas Ricks comes as close as possible to putting the reader into boot camp.<br />Having been a Marine and graduating from Parris Island In January of 1990, I was given an amazing case of deja-vous from reading this account. Ricks follows a group of recruits in 1995 that would be platoon 3086. He focuses on some of the differences among the recruits while effectively relaying the boot camp experience, detailing everything from close order drill to the pesky sand fleas. His account is true to form and gives even the nonmilitary reader a true window into the daily events on Parris Island.<br />Ricks also opens up new territory by detailing the philosophies and daily lives of the drill instructors. Having never been a drill instructor I particulary enjoyed these moments of the book.  Every recruit would catch himself wondering, &quot;Are these guys like this all the time&quot;.  Ricks also follows both drill instructors and recruits after graduation and details some of the success stories and failures.<br />More than a diary, this book also is a tribute to Marine Corps pride. Ricks' interviews and detailing of Marines past and present sheds some light on just what makes the Marine Corps a cut above the rest. Almost every inch of this book will make a Marine stick his chest out and those who are not look at Marines with a bit more awe.<br />Ricks does stray from time to time, especially in the later chapters when he waxes philosophic about the politicization of the Corps.  However he offers some true and poignant insight, it just doesnt seem to go with the flow of the book.  This tale of platoon 3086 is a great read for Devil Dogs and everyone else. A solid five star piece of literature.  HOO-RAH !!	2001-03-08
US	51654819	R1I9TIS1O41265	0553583298	392561776	Hard News (Rune)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	THE RETURN OF RUNE	HARD NEWS is the third in a series of Deaver novels centering around the character of Rune. In this chapter Rune has made some progress and is working as a camera person for a local news affiliate.  She receives a letter from a man in prison detailing not only his innocence but the dangers that surround him where he is.  The emotional Rune makes his case her own personal crusade and pitches the story to a national news program.  The problem is that the prisoner was convicted of murdering the former president of the same news network. Some high power people greenlight the story but it seems unknown forces are out to sabotage Rune's attempt at investigative journalism.  As with any Deaver mystery there are twists and turns and there is more to the story than even Rune imagined. <br />The plot of the story lags at first but picks up in a big way half way through the book.  Rune's character is a bit more interesting in this novel than in the past two. She seems to have developed some strength and isnt quite as whimsical.  Deaver even lays off the more often than not romantic plot line on this one. The result in a more interesting book throughout.  While the ending is not the most original in terms of mystery fiction, it is also not as transparent as some prior attempts.  The book held my interest throughout and was well worth the read.  Hopefully with his recent success Deaver will see fit to resurrect the Rune series. An exciting four star read.	2001-03-04
US	51654819	RWR0LQWGF8B7D	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	4	7	10	N	N	WHEN NATURE CALLS	Christ McCandless was a smart young man who was well thought of. He also was a bit of a loner with a passion for the great outdoors and all the adventures that came with it. Upon graduating from college he gave all of his money to charity and wandered the United States with nothing more than a backpack. He lived in the desert and canoed through Mexico before setting his sights on his ultimate adventure : hiking in Alaska and living off of the Arctic lands.<br />His lust for nature will ultimately result in tragedy. However, his story is more than his wanderings and death.  His story is also his motivations and his passions. Jon Krakauer attempts to dissect McCandless and his journey. The author vehemently defends the memory of McCandless from those that would call him insane or suicial.  He tries to paint the picture of an adventurous spirit.<br />The result is a captivating book. Krakauer gives insight into McCandless without insulting his memory by prentending to know exactly what the young man was thinking. The author does an admirable job of showing how the vagabond tendencies in Chris lead to heartache in many of those that cared for him, his family in particular. He gives frank details on McCandless' insensitivity towards his family without villifying him.<br />There are two things that keep this from being a five star account. First, Krakauer spends a little too much time defending Chris.  He often refues to entertain the notion that some the decisions that McCandless made were uninformed if not foolish. Second, he often strays from the tale surrounding McCandless a little too far. While the tales of other unfortunate adventures are not without merit, there is a thing as too much.  At points these stories often interrupt the flow of the book and can leave the reader a little anxious to get back to the primary subject.<br />Perfection is not obtainable with every novel, but Krakauer doesnt miss the mark by much here.  Despite some minor flaws he tells an enthralling tale. He entertains and moves the reader with this accont of a life lost.	2001-02-27
US	51654819	R36JR1B9UIXMR2	0385334206	739505736	Breakfast of Champions: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	POWERFUL AND WITTY SOCIAL COMMENTARY	This stands as a classic in contemporary American Fiction. Although I have enjoyed other Vonnegut novels more, none are more cynnical than the timeless BREAKFAST OF CHAMPIONS. Vonnegut narrates the tale of Dwayne Hoover and Kilgore Trout, two strangers whos paths would cross with devastating consequences. Hoover is a wealthy owner of several business including a car dealership, he is also slowly going mad. Kilogre Trout is a novelist with underappreciated talent.  His works only seem to be  published in porno rags.  While the story of their catastrophic encounter is humurous it serves mainly as a backdrop for Vonnegut's social criticism.<br />Vonnegut uses BREAKFAST OF CHAMPIONS to not only ridicule obvious  social issues (i.e. racism and pollution to name but a few), He also jabs at those establishments that most Americans would hold sacred. He mocks the founding fathers, explicitly chastising Thomas Jefferson as a man who wrote of the value of freedom while at the same time owning hundreds of slaves.  He christens the military academies as institutions whos sole purpouse is to train mindless homicidal maniacs.  As poignant as his finger pointing is, it remains evident that Vonnegut's purpouse is to educate and not to instigate.<br />Having been written over a quarter of a century ago, it is amazing that BREAKFAST OF CHAMPIONS remains as relevant and enthralling as it was when first published.  Read this book with an open mind and you will enjoy it. You need not agree with Vonnegut to appreciate his flair.	2001-02-21
US	51654819	R1L5QOAGTHRV95	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	5	7	9	N	N	MONUMENTAL AND EMOTIONAL HISTORY	On Parris Island I was made to memorize the words of Admiral C.P.  Nimitz in reference to the Marines on Iwo Jima....&quot;Uncommon Valor was a Common Virtue&quot;.  Having served in the Marine Corps I have visited and stood in awe of the Iwo Jima memorial.  Having worked in and around Johnstown Pennsylvania for four years, I drove past the boyhood home of Seargent Mike Strank at least twice a weak and heard his name in reference to the historic flag raising.  Having read this book I will never see them or think of them the same way again.<br />James Bradley tells the tale of his father, Navy Corpsman John Bradley and the five Marines that helped him raise the flag during the battle for a slab of volcanic rock and sand during the island hopping campaign in the second World War. With integrity mixed with a flair for story telling, Bradley details the lives of these six men before, during, and after this historic event. He shows the ordinary men they were and the warriors they became.<br />What's more impressive is that he chronicles how America made them heroes and simultaneously how the surviving men in large avoided the spotlight. He shows the humility that exists in all great men.  Bradley's in depth research brings the battle alive and even manages to stir emotion 55 years after the event.<br />The book is brilliantly written. Its historical value is only outmatched by the tales of humanity that accompany it. It passes along a moment of American pride to generations that had yet to been born.  It enthralled me from the moment I picked it up and did what I once thought to be impossible. It made me even prouder to have served with The United States Marine Corps. Semper Fi.	2001-02-10
US	51654819	R2QGI52TVJPJ5T	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	5	13	20	N	N	MAGNIFICENTLY MACABRE	It's seven years after Starling's success of tracking Buffalo Bill and the subsequent escape of Dr. Hannibal Lecter.  Clarice's career has stalled, ironically as a result of her early success. Clarice is under investigation after a high profile shooting when she gets some encouraging words from an admirer.....Hannibal Lecter.  The manhunt for Lecter is in full swing with a little push from Lecter's only surviving victim, Mason Verger.  Verger proves to be as menacing as Lecter and his obessesion with Hannibal puts Clarice in danger.<br />The tale of Clarice and Hannibal reaches a feverish pace as the hunt goes on and Clarice's career starts to fall apart.  The presence of Verger, a man so vile and evil, actually causes the reader to cheer for Hannibal Lecter. Only the quick pen of Thomas Harris can have you rooting for a cannibalistic serial killer.<br />The book reaches uncharted territory with graphic violence. It touches every evil known to man and then some...... murder, cannibalism, torture, child molestation, incest, bribery, corruption, greed............. these and more keep the reader spellbound to this nightmarish novel.<br />The book reads fast and holds interest right up until the shocking end. A magnificently macabre five star thriller!	2001-02-04
US	51654819	R1P68844SOWXAC	0316154075	347427189	A Darkness More Than Night	Books	5	13	13	N	N	MASTERFUL SUSPENSE WITH FAMILIAR CHARACTERS	Michael Connelly outdoes even his magnificant reputation with A DARKNESS MORE THAN NIGHT. A cast of characters from his previous works team up for a near perfect mystery.  Terry McAleb (Blood Work) is asked by Jay Winston to investigate a grisly murder that  looks to be the first in an eventual series. Through his gritty detective work and outstanding profiling his pegs a sure fired suspect.....the problem is that the suspect is the infamous Harry Bosch (Black Echo, Angel's Flight, etc.....).  Each piece of evidence points to Bosch and throughout the book the reader is forced to ask &quot;Did Bosch go over the edge?&quot;. All the while, Bosch himself is in the middle of a tedious trial of a Hollywood murder. Other familiar characters in the Connelly world show up including reporter Jack Mcevoy (The Poet).  Therefore it may help to have read previous Connelly novels to gain the full efect of this work.<br />The book is a non stop piece of intrigue. Once picked up it beckons the reader to keep going until the masterful ending. There are no dull moments and the characters of Bosch and McAleb feed off of eachother.  There are bad guys worthy of your spite and good guys with the weaknesses that are a Conelly trademark.  Is Bosch a fallen heroe? Has McAleb missed the mark on this profile? Will the killer strike again? All of these questions run through the course of the brilliant five star fiction.	2001-01-28
US	51654819	R3IPRM7ESRWLI2	1572304510	459490876	Without Conscience: The Disturbing World of the Psychopaths Among Us	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Informative AND Entertaining	More often than not, a book that centers around anything psychological is well researched but boring to the point of tears. Dr. Hare escapes this trap and entertains and simultaneously informs the reader.<br />The book is loaded with examples of real life encounters of psychopaths, primarily those interviewed by Dr. Hare's research within prisons. However there are also a number of victims accounts and the tales they tell may sound a bit familiar to someone in any reader's life.<br />Dr. Hare obviously stands by his own research and his standardization tool for assessing psychopaths, the pyschopathy checklist. He details the difference between psychopathy and other other afflictions.  He also gets to the hard truth..... we can recognize psychopaths among us, we can study them, we can even hope that we can develop ways to manage them, but we can never cure them. <br />The book is loaded with side stories and events that make it a gripping read without dumbing it down. The only complaint I had is that there wasnt more in depth case studies and empirical research to back his assertions.  It is an ideal read for anyone interested in psychology, criminology, or any of the behavioral sciences. You wont be dissapointed.	2001-01-23
US	51654819	R375CRFLB967SH	0394755189	69028332	Coyotes: A Journey Across Borders With America's Illegal Aliens	Books	5	30	33	N	N	REAL LIFE DRAMA AND ADVENTURE	Having recently read NEWJACK: GUARDING SING SING, I was motivated to look into other Conover works. The impression he left with Newjack was to be reinforced by the flawless COYOTES.  <br />Conover, the authour, goes where no American would dare. He befriends and lives along side Mexican immigrants who cross the border every year to find agricultural jobs. He details several occassions of crossing the border, a series of hardships and dangers.  In his tales the reader is given first hand accounts of  brutal mexican police, pesky immigration officers, and the ruthless and dangerous coyotes who smuggle illegals over the border and throughout the border territories.  For Conover, interviews were not enough, he walked more than a few miles in their shoes.<br />Not only does Conover do the adrenaline pumping crossings but he lives life on both sides of the border. He spends season in citrus groves in Arizona, California, and Florida. He spends the offseason in a mountainous Mexican ranchero, among what most of us would consider poverty.  Through it all he does a moving and mesmorizing job of painting the picture of the migrant worker.<br />The book is more than investigative non-fiction, it is a flowing story, encompassing a struggle few have accurately documented. The book reads fast, simultaneously entertaing and interesting the reader. This stands as a favorite in any non-fiction collection. Five stars and then some.	2001-01-12
US	51654819	R2XCRR0KRMLV2J	0316693251	319187092	Roses Are Red (Alex Cross)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	SIMPLY STUNNING	Alex Cross is back and once again a fiendish villain awaits him. A criminal that calls himself the Mastermind is responsible for a series of deadly bank robberies throughout the D.C. area.  His plots are meticulous and perfect. He seems to be uncatchable.  Alex Cross again is dropped into the middle of a mess and seems to be the only hope to solve these robbery murders.  At the same time he has a disastrous love life haunted by a past case.<br />While there seemed to be some lulls in CAT AND MOUSE along with POP GOES THE WEASEL, this new chapter in the Cross saga does not fall victims to such imperfections.  The action and case developments move fast and furious.  Each chapter falls into the next and the intensity builds all the way to the end just as the best Patterson novel does.  Patterson touches on the family and love life of Cross at just the right moments and the book doesnt suffer from the rhetoric that some other books have.<br />While the plot is fascinating, there is a brief moment when the end of the book seems to be anticlimatic.....However this forboding is quickly replaced by the whooooooosh of you losing your breath at the end.  Often, I am not surprised by even the best of thrillers.  This time I was speechless.  Right now all I want is the next Alex Cross thriller.  Five Star Perfection.	2001-01-09
US	51654819	R12LINU6J50Z2W	0375501770	90327779	Newjack: Guarding Sing Sing	Books	5	24	26	N	N	ENTHRALLING INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING	Conover does what few authours would dare try. He becomes the subject of his book and the result in the best nonfiction work I have ever read.  There are many authors who try to write prison accounts and fail because of their inability to relate to the subject. There are also correctional officers who think that they can write and publish less than interesting books as a result. Conover is an established author who became a New York State Correctional Officer and worked in Sing Sing for a year. That is the perfect example of in depth reporting.<br />Newjack not only gives you the typical prison stories, but in it Conover relays the subtle things that escape the attention of those who have never worked inside a prison. Conover address the different assignments given to COs often causing them to be outnumbered in massive amounts. He covers overcrowding, prison violence, dirty guards, and even the emotional tolls of the job.<br />This book holds interest like no other work of nonfiction before it.  Conover should be applauded for this book.  It is a hallmark of investigative journalism. As a result I have picked up a copy of his book COYOTES and cant wait to start it. A solid five star book that is a must read for nonfiction and true crime fans.	2001-01-04
US	51654819	R1EMW3IOD6VL8S	0684871262	791325639	Speaking in Tongues : A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A GOOD THRILLER	An ex-prosecutor, Tate Collier, has a bad relationship with his daughter and a worse one with his ex wife.  When his daughter is kidnapped he takes stock of how much he can lose and the scary becomes frightening when he realizes that the kidnapper is hell bent on revenge.  Everyone involved in the investigation of the kidnapping falls into the diabolical sights of the madman and the kidnapper's motivation are not revealed until the book is well on its way to completion.  Will Tate have enough time to save his daughter, why is this madman coming after him and his family? These questions and more keep the reader interested.<br />I must say that the book was entertaining and that I was interested throughout. There were few to no slow spots and the plot was well thought out. The problem is that Deaver's books are usually so much better and his villains so evil that anything less than &quot;THE BONE COLLECTOR' or &quot;THE DEVIL'S TEARDROP &quot; can be a bit dissapointing. This is a good book but short of a masterpiece. I am hoping that Deaver turns up the terror in his next release.	2000-12-28
US	51654819	R62F3QRETWF9B	0684853949	358452686	The Man Who Mistook His Wife For A Hat: And Other Clinical Tales	Books	4	13	15	N	N	CASE STUDIES IN HUMANITY	Having read this book for the first time 7 years ago in college, I recently found myself brousing through it again, and before I knew it I had reread the whole thing.  It was even better than the first time.  Sacks has added some valuable post scripts since my first reading, but the meat of the book remains the same.<br />Sacks relays some of his more interesting individual cases with clinical and human detail. The result is a book that is more than just stories of neuropsychological abnormalities.  He engages the reader in a philosophical questioning of &quot;What makes a man a man&quot; or more importantly, &quot;What is the essence of the soul&quot;. While sacks does not pretend to be a theological expert, he does show the emotional aspects of clients whose cases were thought to be void of emotion in the first place.<br />Those without a background in psychology will still find this book a moving read.  The reader will without a doubt walk away with an appreciation for many aspects of life previously taken for granted. Through his accounts, Sacks gives glimpses of what it would be like to have no memory, no language, no smell, or even no motor skills without intense concentration.  Only sacks can make accounts of autism, amnesia, and tourette's this interesting.<br />The book may lag a little for those with absolutely no background in psychology. There is more than a fare share of medical and psychological jargon. However, Sacks more than makes up for this with his ability to tell a tale. A highly enjoyable book.	2000-12-18
US	51654819	R21F198MTZMBEI	0446608815	373226516	Pop Goes the Weasel (Alex Cross)	Books	4	18	22	N	N	MORE CLASSIC PATTERSON AND ALEX CROSS	Another Alex Cross adventure comes with another super villain and non stop thrills. This time Cross is investigating a series of &quot;Jane Doe&quot; murders in the impoverished sections of Washington D.C. The problem is that he is doing so unofficially and he is one of the few that sees the crimes as being related.<br />The killer is a well respected foreign dignitary who also has a passion for role playing games. He, along with three others throughout the world are members of an exclusive game called the four horsemen.  How Cross comes to his identity and possible capture is a series of non stop chills.  The ending may not be as topsy turvy and dramatic as other Patterson books, but some surprises do change the complexion of future Cross novels.<br />Patterson sticks to his format here. The positive aspect is that his fans know the characters and enjoy their continuing saga. Sampson has developed into the type of figure that would be extraordinary in his own book. The negative aspect is that some of Cross's statements and the details of his family life are a bit worn on the faithful Patterson fan. As a result, the Alex Cross novels could use an injection of freshness. Therefore the novel was a bit shy of the better Cross chapters.<br />Overall the book has a quick flow and only sputters in some of the chapters that surround Alex's relationship with Christine. The villain is devious but also falls short of a Gary Soneji or Jack and Jill. The plot is better than average and I am still left wanting more Alex Cross. A no brainer four star piece of fiction.	2000-12-07
US	51654819	R2NKNN3UEO4CMP	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	4	4	5	N	N	DIARY OF A CON MAN	The premise of this book was exciting from the beginning. A master thief tells of his exploits and details his devilish deads. But Frank Abagnale was not an ordinary thief. He didnt break windows and steal the family silverware. Rather he targeted airlines, banks, and hotels out of millions over his illustrious criminal career. The kicker is that he was a teenage high school dropout while he was doing it.<br />Abagnale quit high school to become a self taught man. The problem is that he taught himself to become the ultimate con man. He flawlessly learned the airline business to pose as a pilot. He  brushed up on his law and passed the California bar exam to briefly collect a paycheck with the D.A.'s office. He even posed as a pediatrician. His strong suit though was the passing of bogus checks. He started by bouncing on his own account and graduated to bilking Pan Am and others out of thousands of dollars in phony pay roll checks.<br />Abagnale gives a quick reading book. It falls short of a five star affair in some minor but noticeable ways. First Mr. Abagnale  toots his own horn a little too much. I expected this when he was relaying his criminal enterprise, but when he constantly alluded to his sexual exploits it became a little annoying. There was also an awkward ending to deal with. The book was good enough that you wanted more detail on how his life of crime came to an end and how he started a good guy life with the FBI. <br />However, these minor flaws do not detract from the overall effect of the book. This is a must read for not only the true crime fan but also for those that work in the airline, bank, and hotel industries. A solid four star book.	2000-11-30
US	51654819	R2DSX4WTTJP601	055358295X	876902997	Death of a Blue Movie Star (Rune)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	GOES OUT WITH A BANG	DEATH OF A BLUE MOVIE STAR is a follow up to MANHATTAN IS MY BEAT, both books featuring the character of Rune, an aspiring film maker with a nose for trouble. This time around Rune is working for an agency that makes bad commercials and good documentaries. While out and about she witnesses a bombing of a pornography theatre and decides to use footage of the scene as a springboard for her first ever documentary. Her look into the life of a porn star takes a twist when the subject of her film is killed in a subsequent explosion that appears to be one in a series initiated by religious zealots. Rune becomes determined to find the killer and along the way she strikes a romance with the lead cop, makes a film, and gets herself caught right smack in the middle of all the killing.<br />In classic Deaver fashion there are some dizzying plot flips that keep you guessing from page to page. However Rune is no Lincoln Rhyme and the weakness of her character curses the book as a whole. She is naive and whimsical to say the least and thus unbelievable. The reader has to believe that she would have been killed just as a result of the law of averages.  As a character, her survival skills are questionable at best.<br />The book starts off great but lags through the middle chapters. The pockets of action and intrigue are not enough to make up for lulls. However the book ends spectacularly and therefore the novel  ends up being worth the read. It is a better than average suspense book but it is also not the best of Deaver. Don't expect the same chills you got in DEVILS TEARDROP, COFFIN DANCER, OR THE LESSONS OF HER DEATH. Overall a solid three star read.	2000-11-20
US	51654819	R306EL5PY3645	1569801576	225119948	Sharon Tate and the Manson Murders	Books	4	8	9	N	N	BIOGRAPHY OF A VICTIM	It is rare that a victim receives the focus of attention in a crime story. Greg King manages to tell the tale of Sharon Tate with detail while simultaneously keeping in mind the tragedy that would befall her and others at the hand of the Manson family.<br />The first 116 pages of this book center around the life of Sharon Tate up until her murder in 1969. With his account, King shows that Sharon was an up and coming Hollywood starlette that still fostered girl next door qualities and dispositions. He celebrates her life but doesnt leave out the necessary details of her romantic life and drug use. In other words he delicately shows her flaws without assasinating her memory or character.<br />King also details the investigation and subsequent conviction of the Manson family, all the while showing the plight of Sharon's family and the families of other victims. He doesnt fall into the sensationalism that has haunted other Manson books. The book ends with a where are they now type of conclusion.<br />The book as a whole is an informative and well thought out read. He holds true to a biographical format for the pirst part of the novel while simultaneously providing interest for the true crime fan.  There are some brief sections that can be a tad drawn out. His description of the Polanski residence would have been better served with a smaller description accompanied by some photos of the grounds if available. This over-detailing is a small but noticeable detterent in the flow of the book.  The final chapters  however seem a bit rushed and some more information would have been appreciated on the remnants of the Manson family that have secured their freedom.<br />Overall the book is an informative narrative with an overall good  flow. There are few dull spots and thus the account makes for a quick read. This book will be appreciated by fans of biographies and true crime alike. A solid four star book.	2000-11-14
US	51654819	R17752UJS7Z310	0446604801	440825646	Jack & Jill (Alex Cross)	Books	5	38	42	N	N	MADNESS TIMES TWO	James Patterson continues to amaze me. Having recently began reading his material, I am enthralled with his story telling. Jack and Jill is a masterpiece thriller worthy of every suspense fan's attention. Not one, but two storylines will leave you flipping from chapter to chapter in no time.<br />Someone is visciously mudering young black children in the neighborhood of detective Alex Cross. There are no leads but Alex is determined to find the killer. At the same time a pair of stalker-serial killers known as Jack and Jill are preying on the powerful and famous in Washington D.C.  When it becomes apparent that the killers have their sights set on the president, Cross is aked to help. He becomes determined to not only find Jack and Jill but to find the child murderer on whatever spare time he can afford. Cross is burning the candle at both ends and he doesnt have much time to save the president and capture the killers. Both plots progress at a fast pace. Cross' determination and excellent detective work shine and he in time finds the killers, but is he too late. As with ALONG CAME A SPIDER Patterson keeps you guessing until the very end and there is no shortage of surprises.<br />Both of the story lines could have a been books unto themselves. The fact that Patterson weaves them into a single novel is a testament to his craft. A stunning ending clinches JACK AND JILL as a five star thriller. The ending will keep you guessing which is nice for a change. Patterson seems to realize that a real thriller, like real life, doesnt have an ending with no loose strings. This book will keep you wanting more James Patterson and More of his heroe Alex Cross.	2000-11-09
US	51654819	R1OBKDJKQEPHR	0440180090	394004545	Slapstick	Books	4	2	3	N	N	THE END OF THE WORLD AS WE KNOW IT.....AGAIN	Vonnegut treads on familiar turf with repeated success in SLAPSTICK. Vonnegut narrates candidly as Wilbur Swain. Wilbur and his twin sister Eliza are born horribly rich and horribly deformed. Their aristocratic parents place them in a secluded New Hampshire estate to hide them from the world and to protect them from their own idiocy. The problem is that as the children grow they hide the fact that together they can communicate and have the intellect of a super genius. Despite this they are seperated and Wilbur goes to Harvard, becomes a doctor, and eventually President of the United States while his sister languishes in a group home. She is eventually released and ends up being killed in an avalanche on a chinese colony on Mars.<br />The future shows the demise of the United States, the emergance of tiny chinese as the only superpower, and the mass death of humanity due to influenza and the green plague. The story ends with the narration of Wilbur as he sits as the first king of New York.<br />The tale is as funny as it is outlandish. Vonnegut uses his apocalyptic ordeal to jab at many of society's sacred establishments. He mocks organized religion through his depiction of the &quot;sacred order of the kidnapped Jesus&quot;. He manages to criticize marriage, love, patriotism, and the upper class humorously and repeatedly. Even his minor shots are poignant without the hint of subtlety. (One man is not allowed to go to war because the others would not let him escape the responsibility of raising all of his illegitimate children)<br />Vonnegut's wit is only outmatched by his ability to tell an entertaining story. No matter how far fetched the setting, Vonnegut never loses the reader's interest. The book flys by, you can read this in a day without knowing where the time went. I did.  My only complaint was that it was too short. I found myself wondering out loud what happened next? Even those who are not die hard Vonnegut fans will enjoy this book.	2000-11-06
US	51654819	R33R0BEKQ2M1AJ	0684846004	224080330	The Cases That Haunt Us	Books	4	44	44	N	N	INSIGHTS FROM THE MINDHUNTER	Not since his first work, MINDHUNTER, have I read a Douglas book this interesting. Mindhunter set the pace for all the profiling narratives that followed. Although nobody does it better than Douglas, his subsequent works were somewhat lacking because they did not grab the reader with the same tenacity as his first novel. He takes a somewhat new direction with THE CASES THAT HAUNT US and in turn a better book surfaces.<br />In CASES THAT HAUNT US Douglas looks at some of the more infamous murders of all time and adds his professional perspective. Whereas he can offer nothing new (after all there have been thousands of books on Jack the Ripper for example), he does weigh some of the more mentioned theories and shows their strenghts and more often than not, their weaknesses. He picks some of the all time chilling real life horror stories....Jack the Ripper, The Zodiac, The Boston Strangler, The Lindbergh Kidnapping, and even the infamous Jon Benet Ramsey case.  All the chapters are intriguing and well thought out. He does an outstanding job of showing how some of the conventional thinking on these cases is flawed and in turn relays his years of hands on experience in the field. Along the way, he peppers his views with recollections of cases he has touched.<br />The main point of controversy in this book in sure to be the Ramsey killing. It is no secret that Douglas was called in to offers his thoughts on this tragic event by the lawyers representing the Ramseys. While I do not agree that he sold out as some would insist, I do question his desire to hire himself out to the main suspects in this grisly event. (in all fairness to Douglas he does contend that after the initial consultation fee he refused to accept further payment and even paid for subsequent flights to Atlanta). This chapter should not prevent anyone from reading the book. Rather, it ranks as one of the more interesting sections of this work. Douglas offers his own insights and makes convincing arguementsfor an inturder theory. You dont have to agree with the man to respect his logic, reasoning, and experience.<br />Overall the book reads at the speed of light. All of the chapters with the possible exception of the Lizzy Borden case are well written and really grab the reader's attention. True crime fans will have to read this book.	2000-11-04
US	51654819	R1LX6HV7TVNW5B	0385332947	543065560	May God Have Mercy: A True Story of Crime and Punishment	Books	4	6	10	N	N	A THOROUGH AND DISTURBING ACCOUNT	Eye for an Eye justice is a politically correct philosophy, but what happens when the adherence to law opens the possibility of an innocent man being executed? This is the underlying question that Mr. Tucker attempts to answer with the story of Roger Coleman in MAY GOD HAVE MERCY.<br />Coleman lays all the facts out in meticulous detail as he relays the death of Wanda McCoy and the investigation that immediately centered on her brother-n-law Roger Coleman. Coleman was subsequently arrested, tried, and executed for her murder, adamently professing his innoncence until the day he died. While a death row con saying he didn't do it is nothing new, the fact that thousands of others agreed with him is.  Years after the murder Tucker shows the inadequacies of Coleman's initial defense team, the resistance of investigators to consider other suspects, and the seemingly criminal witholding of certain documents and testimony by the prosecutorial staff. The greatest injustice of all is that many of Coleman's lines of appeals were terminated because his apellate lawyers miscaculated a filing date and were one day late. Thus, key evidence later uncovered would never be heard in an appeals courtroom.<br />It is of utmost importance to note that even with all of their digging, Coleman's team in future years could not prove that he didnt do it. (Which is necessary considering the fact that he was found guilty in a jury trial proveing, at least in the eyes of the court, that he DID do it).  Although there were a number of statements and pieces of evidence that pointed in other directions, the fact remains that nothing was ever set in stone that screamed to the world (and more importantly to the governor who could issue clemency) ROGER COLEMAN DIDNT DO IT. The actual great miscarriage of justice was that there was certainly more than enough to raise reasonable doubt and that an able defense team would have been able to relay such doubt to the jury.<br />The book is about more than thelegal and ethical arguements that surround capital punishment. It also focuses on the profound effect that the death penalty has on the family and loved ones of not only the victim but of the family of the executed. Tucker does an outstanding job of showing the emotional toll that the execution took of Coleman's girlfriend, friends, and lawyers. Despite the fact that Tucker is clearly convinced of Coleman's innocence, he still does an able job of relaying the conviction of all parties involved in this struggle. His slight bias is the only reason that I gave the book a four and not five star rating.  The overall flow of the book is good, especially for such researched and detailed non fiction. It stands as a very moving read.	2000-10-26
US	51654819	R325S0NL4CCRW0	0446364193	597792275	Along Came A Spider	Books	5	66	70	N	N	FIRST RATE SUSPENSE	Having read everything by Michael Conelly and Jeffrey Deaver, I was looking for a master of suspense with an imaginative and intellectual lead character. I found both with James Patterson's Along Came A Spider and Dr. Alex Cross.<br />Alex Cross is a lead detective with the Washington Police Department. He is also a very able licensed psychologist. While investigating a series of murders he is called out to take the lead in the investigation of the kidnapping of a politician's son and a movie star's daughter (Maggie Rose).  It isnt long before he finds out the murderer and the kidnapper are one in the same. The manhunt for Gary Sonjei and the search for little lost Maggie Rose have Cross teamed up with the FBI and the Secret Service. Sonjei proves to be evil incarnate with a master plan and a high I.Q.  The plot thickens and surprises abound, keeping interest at a high level throughout the book.<br />Patterson delivers what every suspense reader wants.... a vulnerable and loveable good guy along with a bad guy that has you afraid to turn out the lights at night.  Just when you think you have it all figured out he kicks up the intensity another notch.<br />The book is a smooth read. There are little to no dull spots. You will finish this book wanting to read another Alex Cross novel. I know I did. FIVE STAR THRILLER !!	2000-10-23
US	51654819	R29OOBUB79AIB9	067089270X	342087812	The Burning of Bridget Cleary	Books	4	15	18	N	N	A FASCINATING TALE, BUT OFTEN TEDIOUS	Having more recently taken to reading works of non fiction, I figured this would be a worthy read. True crime, folklore, and Irish history all come together in a tale from the end of the 1800's.  The story centers around Bridget Cleary, a middle class wife of cooper Michael Cleary. She takes ill and with the help of some locals her husband becomes convinced that she has been abducted by fairies and what he sees is a changling and not his wife. The &quot;cure&quot; for her predicament in the eyes of Irish folklore is nothing short of torture and her husband eventually kills her by setting her on fire.<br />Ms Bourke does an outstanding job of relaying the legends of the fairies in Ireland at the time. She also convincingly shows how Michael Cleary may have been acting out of rage rather than superstition. She goes on to detail the arrest and trial of Michael as well as many members of Bridget's own family who aided  Michael in his fairy cure.  The events of the crime were used by the English as fodder for their criticism of the Irish and the Irish desire for self rule.<br />Whereas Ms. Bourke is commended for her attention to detail it is also the reason that the book has some slower spots. She at times painstakingly details the setup of the policing in Ireland as well as political movements that were pertinent to the story. She goes well beyond what is necessary to provide the reader with information. While it does not severely damage the book as a whole, it does hamper the overall presentation of certain chapters.<br />This book is a worthy read for anyone interested in Irish Folklore, Irish History, or even those who enjoy True Crime but are tired of the same old stories.	2000-10-18
US	51654819	R27XH6XM4EXI6P	091478384X	903396402	The Serial Killer Letters: A Penetrating Look Inside the Minds of Murderers	Books	3	20	20	N	N	WORTH THE READ BUT FALLS A LITTLE SHORT	The concept of this book had so much potential but the product fell a little short. Jennifer Furio strikes up a series of correspondence with some of the most horrific serial killers still alive. Most of their histories she came to know through the flashy murder novels of Anne Rule and others. She then takes their letters and prints them.....much as Jason Moss did in his work &quot;The Last Victim&quot; but she only prints the offender's letters word for word.<br />First off, I will give credit where credit is due. She does get some intriguing responses. Even those that deny their crimes open a small window into their minds through their writings. Those that admit can be brutally frank (i.e. David Gore).  There are definately moments of this book that make it worthwhile.<br />On the other hand there are some real flaws with the work up that hurt the overall effect of the book. First, the authors preamble to each series of letters is minimal at best.  If you havent read individual books on each of the offenders you dont have real insight to the nature of their crimes.  Second, there are offenders that were co-conspirators whos chapters are no where near eachother in the flow of the book. It would seem to be more beneficial to have them follow one another. The book also suffers in that the author does not share ANY of her letters. Sometimes these individuals have angry reactions to her correspondence and it would have been nice to see what provoked their hostility. Finally the book suffers from her selection of offenders. Some of the offenders are borderline illiterate and reading their letters is painfully tedious. Also the biggest name  (or at least most recognizable) in her book, Henry Lee Lucas only wrote three brief non important letters. Finally it is very important to mention that she did not print letters from those who refused to be printed. What fun is that?<br />There are some highlights. The letters from David Gore are frank and horrific. The letters fromthe Chicago Rippers are worth reading to see how much of the offenses they pass off on one another.<br />Overall as I said the book is worth the read, but you will suffer some to get to the good stuff. If you are looking for something of this nature that doesnt have as many dull spots, I recommend &quot;The Last Victim&quot; by Jason Moss.	2000-10-13
US	51654819	R3FOYXN1LWTU8D	0446523402	367594357	The Last Victim: A True-Life Journey into the Mind of the Serial Killer	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The last victim???	I will give credit where credit is due. Moss had a good idea and he ran with it. Research serial killers, write to them in a way that will solicit a response, and they will send you letters and call your home.  The book is an easy read and Moss' description of events is commendable. Whereas the bulk of the book revolved around his &quot;relationship&quot; with John Wayne Gacy, I found the correspondence from Richard Ramirez even more enthralling.<br />Be warned, you will find yourself second guessing Mr. Moss. Why would he give his home number and address to these people. Why would he let his younger brother correspond with Gacy? Why would he go visit an offender that got off on killing young men like himself?  But evaluating his judgement does not make for a bad book....if anything it gets you more involved. You just cant believe he is doing this. Moss himself details how this project caused conflict within his family.<br />Two things that keep this from being a five star book: First, Moss' incredible inflated ego. You wonder if he broke his arm from patting himself on the back.  Read the book and you will see what I mean. Second, the title for Pete's sake. Even after reading the book I dont see how he puts himself in the same category as the victims of these killers.  But again, I give the guy credit. His determination lead to a good book and I am sure a better bank account.<br />If you like true crime,you WILL love this book. A solid four star read.	2000-10-09
US	51654819	R1BS3FM4Y259W8	0553581767	328989327	Manhattan Is My Beat (Rune)	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Interesting but not Deaver's best.	Having read the Lincoln Rhyme novels, I was anxious to get my hands on anything Deaver. While some of his other work was 5 star material, MANHATTAN IS MY BEAT left me a little dissapointed.<br />Rune is a homeless girl squatting in a skyscraper and working in a vido store. She loves old movies and fairy tales. When picking up a tape, she finds a favorite customer dead. She believes that his killer and the location of a long lost million dollars is hidden in the film he rented so often. Her prying exposes her to a world of danger and she manages to bring her few friends into the mix with her.<br />As with any Deaver tale, there are twists and turns, and plot flips. The ending leaves you with literary whiplash. The main character Rune's obsession with fairy tales leads to forced analogies and the book can drag as a result. The ending is too tidy as to be somewhat unbelievable. I do wish that Deaver would have devoted more of the narrative to the villain(s) as he does with some of his more interesting works. <br />Overall, it is a quick read with a good amount of suspense and intrigue, but it falls short of Deaver's better novels.	2000-09-28
US	51654819	R1ERWT72L3UQNC	0425161293	254394811	Hocus Pocus	Books	5	8	10	N	N	SATIRE AT ITS BEST	Debs Hartke is a Vietnam Veteran, turned College Professor, turned Prison Warden, turned convict in this hillarious sattirical tale by Vonnegut.  Although this novel doesnt get the attention of a BREAKFAST OF CHAMPIONS or SLAUGHTERHOUSE FIVE, it is just as worth the read.<br />Vonnegut uses the character of Hartke to chastise big government, big money, big media, and big egoes everywhere. Even if you dont agree with his assessment you cant help but laughing anyway.<br />Things just keep getting worse for Hartke as life goes along, he wanted to be a journalist who graduated from Michigan. Instead his father forces him to go to Westpoint and things snowball from there. He goes through Vietnam, he marries a woman that goes insane in her forties,..........and every moment is brilliantly written.<br />I recommend the book, I recommend the author. This will not be the last Vonnegut novel that I pick up.	2000-09-24
US	51654819	R3DPJEDRWVTAIZ	0385334176	837891915	Deadeye Dick: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Sombre AND Humorous, a great read.	Vonnegut strikes again with his wit, although this time his cynnisism  seems a bit muted. He gives us Rudy Waltz, son of two of the most eccentric  people you will ever meet. Rudy as a young boy accidentally kills a young  pregnant woman with his rifle thus earning the nickname and book title  &quot;Deadeye Dick&quot;. Rudy grows to become a pharmacist. He never  leaves his parents and his accident as a child has a profound role in the  rest of his life. He carries the guilt, is unable to forge new  relationships, and is relatively unhappy for the rest of his life.<br />Seems  like it would be a bit depressing but Vonnegut keeps the novel rolling with  his social commentary on parenting, the medical field, the government, etc.  etc. etc.  Of course the accidental shooting is not the only misfortune to  enter the lives of Rudy and his family but why ruin the book for  you?<br />Vonnegut really kept me engrossed in this novel. It is a quick read  and worth picking up, even if you haven't read much of his other work. A  solid 4-Star novel.	2000-09-19
US	51654819	RVHUEUBTY4EGP	0385333870	197148998	Galapagos: A Novel (Delta Fiction)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	ENTERTAINING BUT NOT WHAT I EXPECTED	This being my first Vonnegut novel, I was hoping for something extraordinary. Needless to say I was amused but somewhat let down.  The  premise is attractive: Mankind is coming to end and fate leaves the future  of humanity in the hands of an unexpecting lot of survivors. Who they are  and how they get on the island is a mildly amusing tale. Vonnegut firmly  confirmed his witty reputation as I read this novel. His thinnly veiled  narrator sarcastically comments on all aspects of life from government to  religion to basic human nature.<br />The moral of the tale is that our big  brains have began to combat  Darwin's concept of evolution and that nature  will someday remedy this in a big way.<br />Overall the book was a quick read.  Vonnegut's humor made it worth finishing, but I hope in the future to read  a Vonnegut novel with a meatier plot too match the witty observations.	2000-09-01
US	51654819	R32C7CUIFUC40H	0316235024	598692359	The Gift of Fear : Survival Signals That Protect Us from Violence	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A GREAT COMMENTARY ON HUMAN NATURE - NOT JUST FOR WOMEN	I hesitated to read this book at first, thinking it was entirely about the  victimization of women. A friend convinced me it was a good read and once I  picked it up, I couldnt put it down.  De Becker shows through a series of  examples that people have come to ignore the basic human instict of  survival. By ignoring fear, we open ourselves to those that would do us  harm. Women and Men constantly put themselves in danger all in the name of  manners. De Becker shows that it is better to appear rude on occassion that  to be a target of violence.<br />The subject matter is captivating. The  writing style lends itself to a quick read. De Becker drives home his point  with chilling examples rather than bore the reader to tears with  meaningless psycho babble. It is an excellent commentary on human nature  and the violence that is increasingly permeating into our society.  Definately worth picking up.	2000-08-31
US	51654819	RAJWDB5QUK609	0553560204	54491990	The Lesson of Her Death	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A nail biting Deaver thriller	Bill Corde is a former big city cop turned small town detective who is assigned to investigate a murder of a local college girl. Although signs  point to a cult killing, Corde knows better and he  closes in on the real  killer. He discovers the victim has left him with a number of suspects and  as he gets closer to the killer, the killer gets closer to him. In typical  Deaver fashion,  there are twists and turns with every new chapter. You are  kept guessing until the very end as to the identity of the murderer. The  book is a smooth read and it held my interest throughout. Deaver conveys  real suspense and dread by bringing the Hero's children into the sights of  the villain. Deaver and suspense fans will find this as a book worth  reading.	2000-08-17
US	51654819	R1NQK7B5WDV48F	0684855631	430524886	The Empty Chair	Books	3	2	2	N	N	WHERE IS THE EVIL?	Being a new member of the Jeffrey Deaver bandwagon, I am already used to a  number of things about his books. First, the plot has more twists and turns  than a boxful or pretzels. Second, the Hero is always after someone that  appears to be pure evil on a stick. With THE EMPTY CHAIR you get one  without the other. Lincoln Rhyme travels to North Carolina to get an  operation that may or may not help him in his desire to gain more mobility.  Shortly after their arrival, he and Amelia Sachs get involved in a murder  and kidnapping investigation that centers around a young man that goes by  the name Insect Boy. The plot does go through the usual roller coaster and  for that reason the book is worth the read. But the Insect Boy is not as  menacing as a Coffin Dancer or a Digger (if you have read his other  material you know what I am getting at). I expect a Deaver villain or  supposed villain to give me more of a creepy feeling. I was dissapointed in  the Insect boy character and I was dissapointed in the aspect of the plot  that had Sachs flurting with the wrong side of the law. The suspense was  good, the writing great, but the overall effect fell a tad bit short for  what Deaver usually gives.	2000-08-06
US	51654819	R2738AHXZG6C25	0671038443	79347454	The Devil's Teardrop	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A PERFECT THRILLER	They dont get much better than this. I thought that I had read the best of Deaver by picking up his three Lincol Rhyme noves, but Devil's Teardrop is  an even better read. The plot is frightening in itself. A mass murderer  stalks the nation's capitol and the only person that can tell him to stop  is killed in an accident. A retired FBI Agent and document expert, Parker  Kincaid is called in to examine the only evidence they have and in turn  find the killer. The plot has the classic Deaver twist and retwists, heroes  that you cant help but chear for, and villains that leave you with  nightmares. As always in a Deaver novel, people are not always what or who  they appear to be and you are kept guessing until the last page. BRAVO. I  dont give many books five stars but this one deserves it. I highly  recommend it, &quot;dig&quot; yourself up a copy soon.	2000-08-06
US	51654819	R3LZ2CG6Y6IIS2	0451181468	281774869	Praying for Sleep	Books	4	1	1	N	N	IS THE ENDING WORTH THE WAIT?	The book has an urban legend type of plot: Escaped mental patient, hell bent for revenge, destroying everything and everyone in his path. The story line was interesting but Deaver rambled from time to time and the book has  moments where sleep had no alternative. The book was a 3 star read until  the last fifty pages when it really picked up. A classic Deaver plot twist   has you guessing who is the villain and who the hero, making the brief  moments of boredom almost tolerable. For Deaver fans this may be a bit of a  dissapointment.	2000-07-25
US	51654819	RCGQ4KDYUZT9Z	0671023918	418424101	Broken Wings	Books	4	1	2	N	N	FICTION OR FACT?	If you have read all of Douglas' nonfiction works like I have then you will love this book.  Douglas and Olshaker's first ficticious collaberation is a can't put down, page turning success.  The lead character Jake Donavan  cold be Douglas himself, from the case files to the one time medical  emergency induced by stress. Obviously the characters and the scenarios are  all believable and the plot comes together nicely at the end. The book  falls just short of five stars in that the end does not throw the literary  curveball that I like (i.e. Michael Conelly). However, the predictable  climax is excused when one aspect of the plot is left open for a sequel.  More Jake Donavan to come? I surely hope so.	2000-03-15
US	51654819	R11WE96QOBS60T	078600553X	365725440	Killer Clown: The John Wayne Gacy Murders	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Fantastically Detailed	This account of the infamous Gacy saga begins with the dissapearance of Gacy's last victim, and details the surveillance, capture, and prosecution of one of the world's most famous serial murderers.  Terry Sullivan's  attention to detail with the account is commendable but at the same time is  the reason I gave the book a four and not a perfect five.  Sometimes his  descriptions of forensic issues drag on past what is necessary and become  boring. Overall the book is enthralling. The accounts of the interviews  with Gacy, before and after his arrest, are mesmorizing. Sullivan's first  hand account of events makes this book a must read.	2000-03-10
