US	51650080	R1VTF7JCV2GNG1	0975345567	356124571	Judicial Tyranny: The New Kings of America?	Books	5	17	20	N	N	A compelling exposition of judicial tyranny and viable solutions to reign in on it	In his book Judicial Tyranny: The New Kings of America, Mark Sutherland has assembled a wonderful cast of Christian attorneys, jurists, political scientists, and clergy who offer a rather perceptive analysis of judicial tyranny and our hope and means of restraining an overactive judiciary. Contributors include James Dobson, former U.S. Attorney General Edward Meese, former Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore, Don Feder, David Gibbs, Howard Phillips, Rev. Rick Scarborough, Phyllis Schlafly, and Herbert Titus among others. For too long, Congress has been complacent in the face of an overreaching, activist judiciary that has been out-of-step with the will of the great majority of the American people, and the judiciary has overstepped the bounds of its constitutional authority time and time again. Herein, the issue of an activist U.S. Supreme Court and federal judiciary is confronted with painstaking precision in manner intelligible to even the lay person. Meanwhile, solutions to overcome the tyranny of these black-robed deities are presented with amazing clarity. As Edmund Burke once declared, \\"All that is necessary for the triumph of evil is that good men do nothing.\\" Complacency and ignorance will only allow the judicial oligarchy to become more entrenched and continue to foist its will upon us that is so frequently out-of-touch with the  sensibilities of the American people.    The framers of our Constitution hoped to establish an independent federal judiciary; however they by no means hoped to establish some new and peculiar government that might be termed an archonocracy-a national domination of judges. As John Randolph of Roanoke, in observing the activism and usurpation of power by the federal judiciary in his time quipped that \\"I can never forget that the Book of Judges is followed by the Book of Kings.\\" Thomas Jefferson opined, \\"...to consider the judges as the ultimate arbiters of all constitutional questions [is] a very dangerous doctrine indeed, and one which would place us under the despotism of an oligarchy.\\" Alexander Hamilton considered the judiciary to be the \\"least dangerous branch\\" of the federal government because it had neither the sword of the Presidency nor did it control the purse-strings like the legislative branch. In our time, the appellation of \\"least dangerous branch\\" to describe the federal judiciary seems rather far-fetched in light of twentieth-century history. While Hamilton made some compelling arguments about the virtues of an independent judiciary, he did not perceive the judicial tyranny that looms over us today.  On the hand, Thomas Jefferson and George Mason were very weary of an overactive judiciary and they offered prophetic insight that has bore bitter fruit.  George Mason warned that if unchecked the federal judiciary would destroy the state judiciaries, and encroach upon their jurisdictions. In his twilight years, Jefferson remarked that the \\"federal judiciary\\" was an object of \\"fear\\" declaring, \\"That body, like gravity, ever acting with noiseless foot and unalarming advance, gaining ground step by step and holding what it gains, is engulfing insidiously the special governments into the jaws of that which feeds them.\\" As John Taylor of Caroline opined, \\"A jurisdiction, limited by its own will, is an unlimited jurisdiction.\\"  The States coupled with the horizontal checks and balances within the federal government itself were intended as a bulwark against usurpation by any branch.  As Madison has declared, \\"ambition must be made to counter ambition.\\" Yet Congress remains complacent in moving against an overactive judiciary by any \\"ambition\\" of it's own and the States have been rendered impotent. The Executive branch generally refuses to interpose against encroachments against the Constitution by the judiciary, though it is sometimes committing its own usurpations. Alexander Hamilton reminds us that, \\"It may truly be said to have neither FORCE nor WILL, but merely judgment; and must ultimatelydepend upon the aid of the executive arm even for the efficacy of its judgments.\\"  Andrew Jackson encapsulated the power of the executive to interpose, in declaring, \\"The Supreme Court has made it's decision, now let them enforce it.\\"  Jackson, of course, had no intent of give their judgment efficacy.  Interposition, of course, should be utilized to uphold the rule of law.     Some of the most powerful changes in civil society came not from the Congress but from an overactive judiciary. Justice Scalia in one of his famous dissents lamented that the Supreme Court had assumed the role of \\"a sort of junior-varsity Congress\\" in contravention of the constitutional design of the framers. While Hamilton's assertion that the judiciary is the \\"least dangerous branch\\" have proven erroneous in our time, in Federalist #78 Hamilton declared, \\"The courts must declare the sense of the law; and if they should be disposed to exercise WILL instead of JUDGMENT, the consequence would equally be the substitution of their pleasure to that of the legislative body.\\" Since FDR's court-stacking in the mid-1930s and the activist push of the Warren Court in the 1950s, American conservatives have grown steadily more concerned about a judiciary gone awry. The U.S. Supreme Court in our time has sanctioned the removal of the Ten Commandments and prayer from public places, diminished local community standards of obscenity, trampled upon the sanctity of life in legalizing abortion throughout all fifty states with Roe v. Wade in 1973, and mor recently the court has trampled property rights by sanctioning eminent domain abuse for private politically-connected interests in violation of the Fifth Amendment. Judicial fiat now trumps the rule of law, and we have supplanted the law with the rule of men. The agenda of social liberalism is foisted on society most successfully by an overactive federal judiciary. With the most absurd and twisted reasoning, the Supreme Court made a steady, unforeseen move towards the legalization of abortion, such as the case of Grizwold v. Connecticut the court discovered an unenumerated right of privacy in the \\"penumbras, formed by the emanations,\\" of the Bill of Rights. Ancillary to that right of privacy was a concomitant right to infanticide. Justice Goldberg boldly state that such unenumerated rights were \\"rooted in the traditions and conscience of our people,\\" to give a locus of legitimacy to the court's arbitrary whelm.    George Mason, Thomas Jefferson and John Taylor of Caroline feared that the federal judiciary would devour the jurisdiction of the states, and become activist. Nonetheless, Congress has the constitutional means to counter an overactive judiciary by impeachment and by circumscribing the jurisdiction of the federal courts including the U.S. Supreme Court. Hamilton reminds us that it has been long-standing Anglo-American tradition that judges only hold their tenure in \\"good behavior\\" and this was a barrier to the \\"encroachments and oppressions of the representative body. And it is the best expedient which can be devised in any government to secure a steady, upright, and impartial administration of the laws.\\" Yet Impeachment is hardly even considered to reign in on judicial tyranny. Phyliss Schlafly perceptively notes, \\"The Founding Fathers did not write a Constitution that set up a judicial oligarchy. They gave us a government based on the Separation of Powers. The mighty power of government was divided among three branches of government, and each is supposed to restrain the others by an interlacing network of checks and balances. Nothing in the U.S. Constitution justifies judicial supremacy.\\" Nonetheless, in our time, the design of the federal republic has unraveled, and judicial usurpation has made the assault on the Constitution all the more egregious. Justice Antonin Scalia has sardonically referred to his colleagues as \\"black-robed masters\\" who manipulate and distort the Constitution, and abysmally conflate their powers. \\"Within the last 20 years, we have found... the right to abortion, which was so little rooted in the traditions of the American people that it was criminal for 200 years [and] the right to homosexual sodomy, which was so little rooted in the traditions of the American people that it was criminal for 200 years.\\"    Judge Roy Moore makes it clear that all federal laws are not \\"the supreme law of the land\\" or by implication \\"constitutional law\\" merely because it was effectuated by a federal court ruling, but only those laws made \\"in pursuance thereof\\" to the Constitution as per Article VI. Even sitting Justice Scalia has expressed his disdain at his activist colleagues on the High Court: \\"So it is literally true... that the court has essentially liberated itself from the text of the Constitution, from the text and even from the traditions of the American people... and the Constitution is not a living organism, for Pete's sake. It's a legal document. And like all legal documents, it says some things and it doesn't say other things.\\" There are even recent precedents that show Congress has willingness to act against the judiciary's mischief, but the hope of conservative Christian evangelicals is that the Congress would do more and abate the judiciary's raw grab for power. In 2004, both House and the Senate passed the Marriage Protection Act, which became public law, which had the effect of circumscribing the jurisdiction of the federal courts and the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court-effectively barring those courts from hearing questions related to marriage. This was seen as a welcomed preemptive move by evangelicals to prevent a landmark ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court legalizing gay marriage throughout the United States while usurping the authority of the States and legislatures on the matter. Liberals in a knee-jerk reaction muttered that such legislation was unconstitutional; however, the Constitution vests Congress with the authority of circumscribing the jurisdiction of the federal courts and of abolishing and reconstituting those courts in a manner it sees fit. Mark Sutherland thoughtfully notes, \\"Congress has the power to limit what areas the judicial branch can rule in. Under authority granted to Congress in Article III, Section 2 of the U.S. Constitution, Congress can place regulations and exceptions on the judicial branch that would prohibit the courts from ruling on certain issues and in certain areas. These areas could be religious freedom, the definition of marriage, or any other area that Congress chose to declare off-limits to the courts.\\" Moreover, at the impetus of our Republic, the U.S. Supreme Court possessed a much limited jurisdiction. Essentially, it was confined to cases where it exercised original jurisdiction and diversity jurisdiction as per Article III, Section 2, \\"The judicial power shall extend to all cases, in law and equity, arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States, and treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority;-to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls;-to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction;-to controversies to which the United States shall be a party;-to controversies between two or more states;-between a state and citizens of another state;-between citizens of different states;-between citizens of the same state claiming lands under grants of different states, and between a state, or the citizens thereof, and foreign states, citizens or subjects.\\" Essentially, as per the Constitution, the jurisdiction of the federal judiciary was extremely limited. For example, two citizens of the same state could not be litigants in a federal suit since diversity of citizenship is lacking, and the federal jurisdiction only extends to cases where the plaintiff and defendant parties come from different states. The federal judiciary exercised jurisdiction over disputes between the states. Essentially, there aretwo main sources of the cases coming before the federal courts: \\"federal question\\" jurisdiction, and \\"diversity\\" jurisdiction. Earlier in the nineteenth-century, the jurisdiction of cases properly arising within under the authority of the States was considered inviolable and there was no higher court of appeal in cases originating in a state court than the Supreme Court of the respective State. This has, of course, changed as respect for states' rights and the Tenth Amendment has been greatly diminished, but it is within the power of Congress to circumscribe the jurisdiction of the federal judiciary to a manner commensurate with original intent. While the judiciary has usurped the powers of Congress and the States time and time again, it is within Congress' power to reign in on an overactive judiciary while preserving the benefits of an independent judiciary. We must activate Congress and communicate to our lawmakers that the American people are tired and alarmed by a judiciary whose edicts are seldom amenable to the more conservative sobriety of the American people. If Congress does not actively impeach overactive judges that subvert the Constitution, it can greatly curtail federal court jurisdiction.     All things considered, Mark Sutherland has brought together a provocative corps of respected scholars and legal thinkers who collectively offer an incisive critique of a judiciary gone awry while they offer constructive solutions for reform. They make it abundantly clear that we the American people do not have to be slaves to the edicts of these black-robed deities. Their adroit assessment of the federal judiciary is intelligent, rooted in a principled esteem for the rule of law and constitutional popular rule, and their solutions are constitutional defensible, practical and tenable. One thing is resoundingly clear, we must stand up to these demigods in block robes that contravene the design of our federal republic and offer outlandish decisions at odds with the will of the vast majority of the people. It is paramount that the American people awaken and voice their discontent to their elected representatives in Congress if we are to abate judicial tyranny. Mark Sutherland's Judicial Tyranny is destined to be a classic, and unlike similar well-written books by Mark Levin and Pat Robertson, Sutherland's book is unique: it is hard-hitting and much more multi-faceted on the issues it covers. Additionally, it represents a profound cooperative effort by a potentate of conservative luminaries from James Dobson to Roy Moore.    \\"The courts must declare the sense of the law; and if they should be disposed to exercise WILL instead of JUDGMENT, the consequence would equally be the substitution of their pleasure to that of the legislative body.\\"  -Alexander Hamilton	2005-10-08
US	51650080	R3JGQ9WK6Y3VJE	1930865449	103489576	Eco-nomics: What Everyone Should Know About Economics and the Environment.	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Eco-nomics : What Everyone Should Know About Economics and the Enviroment	~Eco-nomics : What Everyone Should Know About Economics and the Enviroment~ adroitly illustrates the vitality of market processes and private property rights while making it clear that the market is not incompatible with civil society's desire to protect the environment.  Far from being detrimental to the environment, a liberal market economy, particularly over time, serves our societal goal of environmental protection.  Private property encourages good stewardship and accountability, and making more \\"commons\\" is not necessarily advantageous to cause of environmental protection by any means.  Many laws have been enacted to preserve scenic natural beauty and prevent pollution, but such regulations often have unintended consequences.  Richard Stroup opens with a straightforward introduction to economics and the problems posed such as scarcity, and the upside and downside to competition.  Stroup astutely explains how free market exchange is conducive to a prosperous society. Stroup incisively explains the consequences of strict environmental protection or \\"protection at any cost\\" measures.  They are quite a few ridiculous cases where overbearing regulators trample property rights and extort exorbitant sums of money from property owners-in the name of environmental protection.  Stroup clearly ascertains why public policies that erode the protection of property rights actually serve to reduce the ability and incentive of owners to protect and conserve their resources.  With innovate public policy solutions, however, society can set and attain reasonable environmental protection goals while not biting the hand that feeds it.  Pollution credit charges and a trading system to exchange those credits have served well. He concludes that the burden of proof for a regulatory intrusion should be on the government, not on the private property owner.  Nonetheless, Stroup surmises in the end that market solutions prove more effective than mindless intervention.	2005-09-20
US	51650080	R3QXQIDIO6U1BU	1400078970	174875218	Rubicon	Books	5	5	7	N	N	An Easy to Read Narrative Capturing the Tumultous Fall of the Roman Republic	~Rubicon: The Last Years of the Roman Republic~ is an ambitious and bold historic epic about one of the most pivotal times in Roman history since the founding of the Republic.  In the year 49 B.C., some seven-hundred years after the founding of Rome, the appointed dictator Julius Caesar crossed a border river known as the Rubicon and he forever changed history.  The refusal of Julius Caesar to abdicate his office along with his forbidden march into the grand city plunged Rome into a cataclysmic civil war. When Caesar sat on the banks of the Rubicon, deciding whether or not strike down the beleaguered Roman Republic, he reasoned, \\"It is nothing to be a republic, now a mere name without substance or character.\\" With Caesar's ascent was the death knell of the Republic, and Tom Holland gives a mesmerizing account of the bloody transformation of Rome from a republic to empire.  Rome would keep some of its republican vestiges, forms and persisted as a Republic if only in name.  Julius Caesar inaugurated a new age for Rome-the age of Imperial Rome, which was marked by a succession of demagogues and the occasional philosopher-king. Despite the brief peace during the Pax Romana, war became the new order of the day.  Tom Holland captures the gritty battles and the political intrigue with amazing clarity and he paints an excellent background history of ancient Rome for the layperson.  From Cicero's bold denunciations of the Republic's enemies to Pompey's ambitious machinations to the bold gambit of Cato, this is a spellbinding narrative history of Rome in the century before Christ. Rich in imagery and vivid reminiscences of Roman mythology, Holland has crafted a masterful history of Rome, an era which marked the demise of the republic and the rise of empire.  Tom Holland has really invigorated the limited number of classical sources such as Cicero, Pliny, Polybius, and Suetonius and brought them to life in a lively, modern, readable narrative history.	2005-09-18
US	51650080	RZ3EPAEEOTBW9	0826212085	565106445	A Defender of Southern Conservatism: M.E. Bradford and His Achievements	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Critical Look at the Life, Legacy and Work of the late M.E. Bradford	~A Defender of Southern Conservatism: M.E. Bradford and His Achievements~ is an informative overview of the life, legacy and scholarship of the late Mel Bradford who died in the early 1990s.  The southern historian Clyde Wilson has assembled a powerful anthology of essays in tribute to the late Mel Bradford.  It should be duly noted that no true blue conservative can study the American founding, the Constitution, and southern history without eventually encountering the name Mel Bradford.  Bradford was an heir to Southern Agrarian movement centered at Vanderbilt University and left a legacy of constitutional scholarship and literary achievement.  He served as professor of English at the University of Dallas and gained notoriety for his southern literary criticism He was 1980 nominee to chair the National Institute of the Humanities chair under the Reagan administration, but Bradford lost to the former Democrat and neoconservative Bill Bennett.  Bradford caused quite a stir as his views over Abraham Lincoln became a source of controversy.  The budding neoconservatives mounted a smear campaign, and the political activism and anti-Lincoln sentiments of Bradford may well have cost him the nomination.  In the aftermath, the paleoconservative movement became more self-conscious as the fissure deepened.  Their passionate and principled dissenting tradition served as a reminder to their neoconservative tormentors about what conservatism really embodied.  Bradford frequently sparred with Claremont Institute's resident egalitarian Harry Jaffa who was a cheerleader for Lincoln's constitutional revolution that forever changed the American polity for better or worse.  In my humble opinion, the jurist Marshal DeRosa's exposition of Bradford's constitutional theory is perhaps the most sterling and informative piece of prose contained therein.   <br /> <br />This book packs quite a punch, and praise is due to the editor Clyde Wilson for putting together such a potent tribute to sucha worthy luminary amongst southern conservatives.  M.E. Bradford left a legacy of scholarship-both literary and political-that needs to be examined for years to come.	2005-09-18
US	51650080	R277IS9IN572TK	0312342144	116396009	The Punic Wars: Rome, Carthage, and the Struggle for the Mediterranean	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A British Historian Recaptures a Pivotal Chapter in Roman History	~The Punic Wars : Rome, Carthage, and the Struggle for the Mediterranean~ is some really bold historical prose capturing one of the most resounding conflicts in antiquity between the Carthaginians and the Romans, which were a series of three wars between 264 B.C. and 146 B.C.  For the first time in United States, Thomas Duanne books has brought British historian Nigel Bagnall's epic history to print in 2005.  The Punic Wars forever changed the destiny of Rome and marked their unfettered ascent to becoming an imperial power to be reckoned with.  These two Mediterranean peoples stood in enmity one against the other, and their climatic struggle would set the balance of power in favor of Rome for the ages.  In the third century before Christ, the great naval power in the world was not Rome but Carthage.  The Carthaginians were descendants of the seafaring Semitic race the Phoenicians and their campaign of colonization inevitably brought them into a clash of arms with the Romans who had imperial ambitions of their own.  As the Romans solidified their control over the Italian peninsula, Carthage extended their control over North Africa's entire arable coastline.  Likewise, when Carthage expanded its colonies to Spain, Sardinia, and Sicily-they sparked a clash with the Romans.  Treaties were broken and honor was at stake.  The Romans took over Sicily seeking a buffer zone to minimize hit-and-run naval raids on the Italic peninsula. Hamilcar Barca and Hasdrubal sought to create a Carthaginian bastion on the Iberian (i.e. Spain) and its ancillary islands.   What is more, the bold gambit of Hannibal is brought to life, as his ambition in Iberia is recaptured with amazing detail. The author meticulously documents Hannibal's painstaking and arduous transalpine march as his men struggled to brave the elements of Gaul, as well as the climatic battle with the Romans.  The late British historian and former soldier Nigel Bagnall captures the epic clash of personalities with amazingdetail.   With the decimation of Carthage's Navy, an account of Rome's brutul subjugation of Carthage and her colonies is captured with astonishing detail.  Cato's merciless quip \\"delenda est Carthago\\" (\\"Carthage must be destroyed\\") surmised the belligerent Roman policy toward their Mediterranean neighbors towards the south.  Carthage itself would be utterly vanquished and plowed over with pillars of salt. Bagnall gives life to the ancient historical accounts in a keen narrative history. This book is powerful and yet easy to read. All things considered, it is a really good laymen's history of a pivotal war in the annals of history. Bagnall is possessed of a profound historical acumen that makes this particular book come to life. Though, a cursory understanding of Roman history is probably prerequisite for readers.	2005-09-18
US	51650080	R1U0PHC1EU6FGK	0962384216	340494574	From Union to Empire: Essays in the Jeffersonian Tradition	Books	5	39	42	N	N	Encapsulates the rich republican legacy of the Jeffersonians	~From Union to Empire: Essays in the Jeffersonian Tradition~ is an anthology of essays and writings by historian Clyde Wilson. As Joseph Stromberg writes in the introduction, \\"Dr. Clyde Wilson is a Christian, a Southerner, an American, an historian and a conservative. For over three decades he has worked on the definitive edition of the Papers of John C. Calhoun, has written on Calhoun and published a collection of Calhoun's most important writings.\\" Wilson is a luminary figure amongst southern conservatives in my humble opinion, and yet modest about his own accomplishments. He has also written a splendid biographical history of General James Johnston Pettigrew and assembled an anthology of essays in tribute to the late Mel Bradford. As Stromberg opines, \\"His writings-published in Modern Age, Chronicles, Telos, and many other forums-shows Professor Wilson off as the kind of conservative who is a stalwart defender of federalism and republicanism, and the liberties associated with them. Such conservatives are few and far between these days.\\"     For most of American history, the old Jeffersonian Democrats, sometimes referred to as Southern conservatives, were the most plentiful and common American type and now they are largely forgotten. The prescriptive wisdom of the old Jeffersonian Republicans lives on and is brilliantly encapsulated in the writings of Clyde Wilson. From his easy-to-read historical exposition of southern conservative statesmen to his stalwart defense of states' rights, Wilson offers a refreshing bit of conservative sobriety with this enlightening collection of essays accumulated over the years. Wilson defends Jefferson and spells out just why so many people from the Right and the Left hate Jefferson, and are committed to tarnishing and maligning his historical legacy. My favorite essays are those recollecting the legacy and contributions of the Old Republicans - James Monroe, George Mason, John Taylor of Caroline, John Randolph of Roanoke, and Nathaniel Macon. The Old Republicans were in fact more Jeffersonian than Jefferson himself as Wilson expounds upon the Tertium Quids with amazing clarity. Like Mel Bradford, Wilson is appreciative of the rich republican legacy and the Constitution, but keen to admit the prescriptive wisdom of the Anti-Federalists in light of history. The Constitution in our time has been thoroughly subverted and rendered a dead letter by \\"construction.\\"    Wilson is no mere nostalgic revisionist and his realism compels him to admit that lately us Jeffersonian Republicans have been on the losing side of American history. A free republic requires a self-reliant, resourceful, resiliant and productive populace not apt to look to the state for its sustenance and financial provision. In our time, dependency on the paternalistic state is at an all-time high and it is apparently what many people want. Nonetheless, Wilson gives southern conservatives a reason to hold their head up high as he and other torchbearers continue to kindle the flame to pass on to a new generation of conservatives. The Roman statesmen Cicero avowed, \\"Long before our time the customs of our ancestors molded admirable men, in turn these men upheld the ways and institutions of their forebears. Our age, however, inherited the Republic as if it were some beautiful painting of bygone ages, its colors already fading through great antiquity; and not only has our time neglected to freshen the colors of the picture, but we have failed to preserve its forms and outlines.\\" It is through the Jeffersonian tradition and the legacy of southern conservatives that we may find the brilliant colors and hues to refresh the colors of our the picture and by prudent understanding of history we can restore those forms and outlines of our fragile republic. Perhaps with perseverance, we can one day effectuate Jefferson's vision of an empire of liberty and restoration of the republic. Wilson is a bold visionary and though realistic about politicalrealities now, he is not possessed of a spirit of resignation and defeatism. This distinguished southern gentleman has left a legacy of scholarship that will be disseminated for years to come. With his Calhoun scholarship, he bequeaths to posterity some potent tools for republican restoration.    In summation, Wilson's accumulated scholarship invigorates the Jeffersonian tradition, and gives us southern conservatives a reason to be emboldened about our political prospects despite the formidable odds. At the very least we have a venerable republican tradition and able torchbearers like Dr. Clyde Wilson to bequeath the flame of liberty to future generations, which should give us hope of future restoration of the republic. As a southern conservative, I have been honored to make Dr. Wilson's acquaintance and hear his lectures.	2005-09-18
US	51650080	R1K4NET332F9YI	0684874377	666187929	Property Matters: How Property Rights Are Under Assault and Why You Should Care	Books	4	5	7	N	N	How Property Rights are Being Assailed by Overactive Goverment	~Property Matters: How Property Rights Are Under Assault and Why You Should Care~ adroitly and incisively explains that property rights are vitally requisite to a free and prosperous civil society, and he further illustrates how the inalienable right to property is routinely being trounced upon by an overactive and uncaring state. The Lockean cliche \\"life, liberty, and property\\" succinctly encapsulates the rights that government exists to protect, and yet in our time the state is the single biggest threat to property rights in our time.  A zealous and overactive government rountinely tramples upon property rights in complete disregard of the rule of law. Senseless environmental laws, asinine zoning ordinances, the phenomenon of regulatory takings without just compensation and other illegal takings in violation of the Fifth Amendment are rendering property rights null and void. On the environmental front, DeLong chronicles how the endangered species act and wetlands regulations have produced some ridiculous regulations and have done far more harm than good. The assault on property rights has steadily increased year by year. DeLong substantiates that property rights are the vital cornerstone of American liberties and that this right must be protected. He makes it resoundingly clear that Americans must wake up to the importance of property rights and voice their opposition to the assault upon private property.	2005-09-12
US	51650080	R2O1K0LRQ8KQ72	1572460733	94602519	The Law	Books	5	8	11	N	N	The Law and the Subversion of the Law	~The Law: A Classic Blueprint for a Just Society~ is a masterful treatise first published in 1850, which surmises the legitimate ends of the instrumentality of the law, and the subversion of the law.  Bastiat is best remembered for his tongue-in-cheek clich&eacute;, \\"The state is that great fiction by which everyone tries to live at the expense of everyone else.\\" Fr&eacute;d&eacute;ric Bastiat opens his landmark treatise on the law with natural law premises acknowledging that life, liberty and property are the gift of God.  At the onset, Bastiat rhetorically asks, \\"What, then, is law? It is the collective organization of the individual right to lawful defense.\\" He further notes, \\"Each of us has a natural right - from God - to defend his person, his liberty, and his property.\\"  The instrumentality of the law carries force he admits.  \\"Such a perversion of force would be, in both cases, contrary to our premise. Force has been given to us to defend our own individual rights.\\"  He summarily encapsulates the purpose and nature of the law:  \\"The law is the organization of the natural right of lawful defense. It is the substitution of a common force for individual forces. And this common force is to do only what the individual forces have a natural and lawful right to do: to protect persons, liberties, and properties; to maintain the right of each, and to cause justice to reign over us all.\\"<br /><br />Echoing Adam Smith's Theory of Moral Sentiments, he postulates basic a priori presuppositions about human nature, labor and property. First, man has a rational self-interest.  Likewise, human beings are fragile, imperfect and inherently sinful.  \\"The annals of history bear witness to the truth of it: the incessant wars, mass migrations, religious persecutions, universal slavery, dishonesty in commerce, and monopolies,\\" opines Bastiat.  He surmises the origins of property and plunder.  \\"Man can live and satisfy his wants only by ceaseless labor; by the ceaseless application of his faculties to natural resources. This process is the origin of property.\\" Secondly he notes, \\"But it is also true that a man may live and satisfy his wants by seizing and consuming the products of the labor of others. This process is the origin of plunder.\\" Plunder often proves more advantageous to men than labor, particularly those without moral scruples. Likewise, Bastiat observes that even the law itself - and its agent of force, the state - may be subverted into an instrument of plunder.  He astutely enunciates upon the \\"legal plunder\\" phenomenon:  \\"Under the pretense of organization, regulation, protection, or encouragement, the law takes property from one person and gives it to another; the law takes the wealth of all and gives it to a few...\\"  The spoliation of taxpayers for illegitimate ends, such as subsidies, wealth redistribution, government largesse for unneeded bureaucrats, and other socialistic schemes act to subvert the law.  How does the law quell injustice, when it simultaneously aids Peter in his efforts to plunder Paul?<br /><br />Bastiat identifies two forms of legal plunder:  \\"They are slavery and tariffs. These are the only two issues where, contrary to the general spirit of the republic of the United States, law has assumed the character of a plunderer.  ¶Slavery is a violation, by law, of liberty. The protective tariff is a violation, by law, of property.\\"  Slavery represents the coercive spoliation of labor, by confinement and coercive labor.  Protective tariffs represent the spoliation of various sectors of economy to the betterment of a politically-connected constituency.  The outrageously exorbitant confiscatory protective tariffs of the nineteenth-century in the United States had an effect of diminishing revenues because of the law of diminishing returns. Protective tariffs depressed agricultural prices and facilitated a massive redistribution of wealth from south to north as most revenues were collected in southern ports and mostexpenditures were made in the north and the beneficiaries of protection were mostly northerners.  Ultimately, the resistance to the legal plunder led to disunion, as onerous taxation at rates in excess of fifty and sixty percent proved detrimental to southern interests. The south shouldered over eighty-percent of the tax burden in the mid-nineteenth century. Not surprisingly, the break away Confederacy formed in 1861.  The politics of plunder are conducive to war, as plundering parties may wage war to protect their spoliation.  Bastiat once remarked, \\"When goods don't cross borders, soldiers will.\\"<br /><br />Bastiat elaborates movingly upon the proper function of the law in remarkable detail.  \\"When justice is organized by law - that is, by force - this excludes the idea of using law (force) to organize any human activity whatever, whether it be labor, charity, agriculture, commerce, industry, education, art, or religion. The organizing by law of any one of these would inevitably destroy the essential organization - justice.\\"  He critiques the ideas and premises of socialist ideologues who seek to subvert the law for their utopian schemes of transforming humanity or effectuating legal plunder schemes in the name of equality and social justice. He incisively analyzes the desire of socialist lawmakers to manage mankind, pursue redistribution schemes, and play God.  He recognizes that socialists fear all liberties.  Under socialist logic, voluntary freedom of association (and its attendant freedom to disassociate) is replaced by forced fraternity and corporatist schemes to form cohesive bonds among desperate elements of society with or without their consent.  Likewise, the liberty of trade and of labor maybe restrained as well.<br /><br />Bastiat further criticizes the French Revolution, Napoleon, and various demagogues.  In Bastiat's time following the Revolutions of 1848, France was precariously staged to embrace  a level of socialism unprecedented of in history.  Bastiat saw it as a duty to rise to the occasion as a statesmen and economist, and he sought to diagnose and analyze the socialist fallacies and the logic of legal plunder in his various writings.  Likewise, he offered this cogent legal treatise to manifest the true and just purpose of the law.  Bastiat has disdain for all artificial systems that seek to subvert the law whether protectionism, mercantilism, socialism or the peculiar French brand of etatism that blended all of these elements.<br /><br />Today, sadly in the United States of America the law has egregiously been subverted into an instrument of legal plunder. I recommend reading a Cato Institute research paper entitled The Transfer Society by David N. Laband and George C. McClintock which documents the costs of legal plunder in America today. Bastiat remains a staunch defender of the true principles of the law, and his work gives our generation a means of diagnosing the problems of contemporary civil society and effectuating a meaningful restoration of the law to its proper function.xpenditures were made in the north and the beneficiaries of protection were mostly northerners.  Ultimately, the resistance to the legal plunder led to disunion, as onerous taxation at rates in excess of fifty and sixty percent proved detrimental to southern interests. The south shouldered over eighty-percent of the tax burden in the mid-nineteenth century. Not surprisingly, the break away Confederacy formed in 1861.  The politics of plunder are conducive to war, as plundering parties may wage war to protect their spoliation.  Bastiat once remarked, \\"When goods don't cross borders, soldiers will.\\"<br /><br />Bastiat elaborates movingly upon the proper function of the law in remarkable detail.  \\"When justice is organized by law - that is, by force - this excludes the idea of using law (force) to organize any human activity whatever, whether it be labor, charity, agriculture, commerce, industry, education, art, or religion. The organizing by law of any one of these would inevitably destroy the essential organization - justice.\\"  He critiques the ideas and premises of socialist ideologues who seek to subvert the law for their utopian schemes of transforming humanity or effectuating legal plunder schemes in the name of equality and social justice. He incisively analyzes the desire of socialist lawmakers to manage mankind, pursue redistribution schemes, and play God.  He recognizes that socialists fear all liberties.  Under socialist logic, voluntary freedom of association (and its attendant freedom to disassociate) is replaced by forced fraternity and corporatist schemes to form cohesive bonds among desperate elements of society with or without their consent.  Likewise, the liberty of trade and of labor maybe restrained as well.<br /><br />Bastiat further criticizes the French Revolution, Napoleon, and various demagogues.  In Bastiat's time following the Revolutions of 1848, France was precariously staged to embrace  a level of socialism unprecedented of in history.  Bastiat saw it as a duty to rise to the occasion as a statesmen and economist, and he sought to diagnose and analyze the socialist fallacies and the logic of legal plunder in his various writings.  Likewise, he offered this cogent legal treatise to manifest the true and just purpose of the law.  Bastiat has disdain for all artificial systems that seek to subvert the law whether protectionism, mercantilism, socialism or the peculiar French brand of etatism that blended all of these elements.<br /><br />Today, sadly in the United States of America the law has egregiously been subverted into an instrument of legal plunder. I recommend reading a Cato Institute research paper entitled The Transfer Society by David N. Laband and George C. McClintock which documents the costs of legal plunder in America today. Bastiat remains a staunch defender of the true principles of the law, and his work gives our generation a means of diagnosing the problems of contemporary civil society and effectuating a meaningful restoration of the law to its proper function.	2005-08-05
US	51650080	R1TDMNCY54RZC9	0895262924	796247413	The Political Writings of John Adams	Books	4	25	26	N	N	John Adams, Patriot Sage and the "American Burke"	Pretentious, pugnacious in his temperament, possessed of a sense of nobility, John Adams was the quintessential Yankee and the Second President of the United States. This collection of his most famous political treatises and his correspondence is most appealing.  With a keen intellect, his statesmanship is penetrating and has earned him recognition as the American Burke. Adams was prescient in his understanding of human nature, recognizing that \\"[s]elf-interest, private avidity, ambition, and avarice, will exist in every state of society, and under every form of government. A succession of powers and persons, by frequent elections, will not lessen these passions in any case, in a governor, senator, or representative, nor will the apprehension of an approaching election restrain them from indulgence if they have the power.\\" Reconciling a flawed nature with man's yearning for liberty was no small task, but he suggested that ordered liberty could be fortified through a mixed constitution: \\"The nation which will not adopt equilibrium of power must adopt a despotism. There is no alternative. Rivalries must be controlled, or they will throw all things into confusion; and there is nothing but despotism or a balance of power which can control them.\\" Adams surmised that the great work of those statesmen at the Convention was to fortify the British inheritance which was itself a mixed constitution while giving it a strong measure of steadiness and permanence by edifice in the Constitution. In Adams' summation, the licentious nature of democracy was to be quelled by establishing a proper equilibrium with the natural aristocratic and monarchial elements. This was requisite for a free government and history demonstrated that a lack of balance sputters off into despotism. Adams was keenly aware of the fragility of the American experiment in ordered liberty, and he shunned quixotic ideologues. He was utterly cynical of Enlightenment views which held the perfectibility of mankind as tenable, and he saw innumerable odds posed against ordered liberty. It is not surprising that John Adam's political theory perhaps has been glossed over by the egalitarian-minded historians of our day, because he rejected the major ideological assumptions fueling the French Revolution. He was keenly appreciative of the Anglo-American common law tradition and the vibrant interplay of cultures that shaped the distinctively American political tradition.    \\"Few men will deny that there is a natural aristocracy of virtues and talents in every nation and in every part, in every city and village. Inequalities are a part of the natural history of man,\\" avowed John Adams. In stark opposition to the heresy of equality, Adams postulated a natural aristocracy of talent that was innate to all men gathered in association. Adams realised that man would be lead by his better man, but this natural aristocracy (i.e. rule by the best) was not something to be imposed upon civil society, but was essentially meritocratic and again natural. While it is clear that Adams was no egalitarian leveler, he also favored a free economy and possessed not an iota of Hamiltonian traits. In fact, he reserved personal scorn for the man when he derided him as a \\"bastard brat of a Scottish peddler.\\" Adams disdained large scale, materialistic schemes to augment a nation's wealth. And on the contrary Adams thought that fostering the personal economic independence of every citizen was necessary for the betterment of the republic.  The political order was to serve the people and civil society at large, not some hodgepodge fiduciary elite of speculators and financiers. Indeed, the long-term stability of a republic weighed heavily on a secured, landed populace-in the eyes of John Adams. And that idea was not only enmeshed in the minds of southerners, but temperate New Englanders like Adams as well.    Adams was the foremost advocate of religious moors as a buttress of public stability and virtue. \\"Statesmen... may plan and speculate for liberty, but it is religion and morality alone which can establish the principles upon which freedom can securely stand.\\" A great measure of public virtue was deemed requisite for a free government and prosperous civil society. Adams rhetorically inquired, \\"Have you ever found in history one single example of a nation thoroughly corrupted, that was afterwards restored to virtue? And without virtue, there can be no political liberty.\\"    In my estimation, studying the political theory of John Adams is requisite for serious study of the American founding. Too often shoddy partisan scholarship casts the founding era as one big standoff between those of a austere Jeffersonian or Hamiltonian persuasion. Hamilton's allies within his own party were few, and it imploded after 1800 and many in Jeffersonian camp considered its name bearer to be the compromiser. Reductionist scholarship accentuates the aforesaid personal struggle of minds and also deemphasizes the common ground the founding fathers had. Despite John Adams' influential showing during the early years of the Republic, his political thought has been overlooked especially in contrast to the cult following behind Hamilton, Madison and Jefferson.	2005-06-01
US	51650080	R79ZM4YLH93AZ	0913966266	14394884	Arator: Being a Series of Agricultural Essays, Practical and Political- in Sixty-Four Numbers	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The republican and agrarian thought of Virginia's Cato	~Arator~ is very much a distinctive \\"series of agricultural essays-political and practical\\" written by Virginia statesman and planter of the Old Republic which was first published in 1813. John Taylor, also deemed the Sage of Hazelwood, dedicates a considerable portion of this book reflecting upon the socio-economic and political order of an agrarian republic which he sought to defend. In his book Arator, John Taylor speaks to a multitude of subjects and issues. He also offers practical and perhaps dated advice on farming (i.e. manuring, livestock, draining, etc.) as well which though extraneous may be a historical curiosity to some modern readers. <br /> <br />To sketch a brief biography of the man, John Taylor of Caroline, in the words of M.E. Bradford, \\"became the classic figure of `old republican' theory: the exemplar of an almost Roman virtus, the Virginia Cato, who soldiers, enforces the law, writes in its defense and of the life it secures, and serves the state well when called to office because he has something better to do-because there are lands and people of whose good is a faithful steward.\\" He rose to the rank of lieutenant-colonel serving in both the Continental Army and Virginia militia. He adopted the profession of his stepfather, and became an accomplished attorney. He turned his oratory abilities to the task of statesmanship and became a legislator in the Virginia House of Delegates and the United States Senate. He grew restless in the practice of law and politics and eventually retired to his plantation where he farmed. Though, he was not aloof from political concerns and discourse, as he wrote a number of books and political tracts.  <br /> <br />John Taylor of Caroline dedicated much of his political life in defense of the Constitution as a strict constructionist and a principled republican. Likewise, he fought against the perceived depredations of the artificial aristocracy of \\"paper and patronage\\" that was wrapping itself around the edifice ofthe federal government like some sly serpent. He assailed the corrupting mercantilist system of patronage and privilege that the centralising nationalists sought to import from England. According to Taylor, if this moneyed oligarchy thoroughly entrenched itself than the inevitable dire results would be consolidation, empire, monopoly, special privilege, jobbery, patronage, legal plunder and theft by taxation. Taylor no doubt had nothing but disdain for Hamilton's scheming to conscript legions of children and women to work factories. He felt strongly that either imperial consolidation or disunion would be the end result, and in any case, it entailed the ruin of the republic. Taylor minced no words in his vehement denunciations of the \\"paper aristocracy.\\" Taylor saw this mercantilist class committed to plundering the productive agricultural, mechanical and labour interests so as to endow opulence upon the manufacturers, financiers, speculators and stock-jobbers. This scheming oligarchy driven by material avarice was hardly averse to the creation of legal monopolies and the spoliation of the taxpayers so long as they were enriched through bounties, subsidies and interest from government debt. \\"Monarchies and aristocracies, being founded in the principle of distributing wealth by law, can only subsist by frauds and deceptions to dupe ignorance for its benefit; but in genuine republics, founded on the principle of leaving wealth to be distributed by merit and industry, these treacheries of government are treasons against nations\\" [p. 94]. Taylor remained a principled republican and resisted the temptation to mount a campaign of counter-plunder for the benefit of the agricultural class. Taylor surmised, \\"If a scheme could be contrived in favour of agriculture, similar to the protecting duty scheme in favour of manufacturers, it would enslave the farmers... The utmost favour which it is possible for a government to do for us farmers and mechanics is neither to help nor hurt us\\" [p. 95]. Thus, in his political capacity as a Senator who championed the agricultural and landed interests, he did fall prey to the philosophy of legal plunder, but preferred laissez-faire instead. Though, he recognised the need for a civil framework to protect property while prosecuting the twin depredations of force and fraud. He was eerily prophetic in surmising that the usurpations of this plundering class would ultimately led to civil war: \\"...it will begat new usurpations of internal power over persons and property, and these will begat dissolution of the union.\\" Taylor committed his pen and oratory skills to confronting such despotism, and wrote a number of treatises, political tracts, and made some poignant filibuster speeches as a legislator. <br /> <br />History tends to vindicate Taylor's concerns in my humble opinion. Taylor though was a nimble Unionist, and saw it necessary to preserve the liberties of the people in their natural communities with the concert of thirteen separate commonwealths tethered together by friendship, mutual consent and the fraternal bonds cultivated during the Revolution. But just as the John Adams-the quintessential Yankee had spoken of States as being \\"nations,\\" Taylor no less considered Virginia to be his country. One must surely be a Virginian, Marylander or Georgian as they are an American; and this was the understanding of patriotism that our forefathers embraced and espoused. In the early 1800s, John Taylor alongside John Randolph of Roanoke rose to become sectional leaders of the Tertium Quids (i.e. Latin for the Third Thing.) They represented the extreme conservative wing of the Jeffersonian Republicans. The Tertium Quids saw themselves as authentic expositors of classical republicanism, and their principles compelled them to oppose the artificial aristocracy and the compromises of both Jefferson and Madison, et al. within their own ranks. They were especially averse to the machinations of the High Federalists (i.e. the Essex Junto, Fisher Ames, Aaron Burr) who sought to disrupt and fragment the Union. <br /> <br />Taylor, the leader of the pastoral republicans looked to certain classical exemplars like Cato the Censor. Likewise, as an Old Whig he was no doubt influenced by Cato's De Agri Cultura and by Virgil's Georgics. These classical works connect virtue and the proper order of human life with the discipline of the farmer and husbandman. For this reason, Taylor tended to treat agriculture as a species of moral instruction. Moreover, agriculture represented a noble and honorable calling to Taylor. The landed farmer relied on prescriptive wisdom, experience, patience, hard work, and a profound sense of duty and reverence to the divine. Such a way of life cultivated independence which made for good solid citizens, or vir bonus-the plain good man. The Roman republic of hollowed antiquity called upon the independent freeholders-indeed farmers and yeoman-to provide for her defense. This militia consisted of citizen-soldiers which were always deemed preferable to standing armies or hired mercenaries. Taylor deemed the citizen-militia the \\"rock of our liberty.\\" For Taylor, the classics offered a breadth of historical insight and wisdom, and he saw that the pursuit of empire undone the Romans. Taylor confronted the perils of slavery with surprisingly candid commentary, and like Jefferson, he saw the existence of that peculiar institution as a catalyst for sparking future conflict, and social strife. He was emboldened to admit that the continuity of slavery might very well kindle the judgment of God. \\"Virtue and vice are naturally and unavoidably coexistent... Perhaps the sight of slavery and its vices may inspire the mind with affection for liberty and its virtue\\" [p. 124]. The exploitation of slave labour by the landed interest, conversely reflected a subtle hypocrisy on the part of Taylor as he and other agrarians were so quick to condemn the spoliation and organised legal plunder perpetuated by the \\"paper aristocracy.\\" <br /> <br />All things considered, this is a good window into John Taylor of Caroline's political thought which represents the \\"Old Country Whigs.\\" His other books such as _Tyranny Unmasked_ and _New Views on the Constitution_ come highly recommended as well. If you're just looking for a cursory look at Taylor's political thought than I recommend that you check out New Views first. Historian W.A. Williams opined that Taylor made \\"the best case against empire as a way of life.\\"	2005-05-16
US	51650080	R1TKVT2FX8XVWC	0895262177	347961403	New Views of the Constitution	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A Remarkable Defense of States' Rights and the Compact View	~New Views of the Constitution~ is a remarkable exposition of states' rights federalism or what scholars dub the South Atlantic republicanism. John Taylor of Caroline stands out for his prudent and principled statesmanship. He stood alongside the illustrious John Randolph of Roanoke as the leaders of the Tertium Quids. He was an avid constitutionalist, a strict constructionist, and a republican at heart. For much of his life, he stood up against the depredations of the aristocracy of paper and privilege. After his Senatorial career, he retired to farming on his plantation, and continued to engage in active dialogue with his political allies and opponents. He penned 'Tyranny Unmasked' which critiqued the protectionist system of the Hamiltonians, he also authored 'Arator' which conveyed his agrarian thoughts with some political tidbits, and in 1823 he published this book 'New Views of the Constitution' shortly before his death. <br /> <br />Justice Joseph Story, a champion of judicial nationalism, scoffed at the book for its title and never read it. \\"I once saw a book advertised New Views of the Constitution. I was startled! What right a man to start new views upon it?\\" Though, Taylor wrote his book to answer the perennial question, \\"What is the American form of government-national or federal?\\" Utilising recently published notes from Robert Yates which were sealed as was most the proceedings at the convention for years, John Taylor sought to give clarity and insight on the Constitution. Taylor makes it abundantly clear that the nationalising tenets of the consolidationist-monarchist camp were aired and summarily defeated at the convention following ratification. The ratified Constitution was the consensus produced which was wholly \\"federal\\" and not \\"national.\\" Hamilton's nationalist motions were all struck down in the Convention. \\"Although, neither the Virginia plan nor Mr. Hamilton succeeded in the convention, they embraced a mass of talents, too proud and powerful for humility and submission; and they resorted to the engine of construction, to be directed by many an Archimedes,\\" notes Taylor.  And this is precisely what Hamilton did, as he tried to conflate the teleocratic principle of \\"general welfare\\" expressed into the preamble into a grant of power. The so called \\"general welfare\\" clause was merely the expressed interest in which delegated powers were to serve, and is hardly a grant of power in itself as Hamilton would postulate. The language of the Constitution was to be subverted by the nationalists through construction: they would malign the \\"necessary and proper\\" clause, they manipulated the so called national supremacy clause, and lastly they animated the \\"We the people\\" clause in the preamble with an esoteric democratic nationalism as if the American people were one consolidated mass. If one studies the debates, and the deducible nature of sovereignty which flows from the States, it should be readily apparent that the United States was framed as a federal republic and not a national unitary state. John Taylor championed a true federal polity and the Constitution which he saw as compact among sovereign States. The States delegated certain, expressed enumerated powers to the general government, and the interlocking structures set by the Constitution embodied the whole federal polity. The Tenth Amendment clarified the consensus at the 1787 Convention: \\"The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.\\" Taylor was keenly aware of the lessons of history, and that \\"the Roman republik\\" having been subverted into centralised imperium \\"was secured by republican words.\\" For this reason, he would not stand idle as centralizing sophists tried to engage in such chicanery, so as to disfigure the American republic.  <br /> <br />All things considered, John Taylor of Caroline offers a remarkably insightful work and this neglected classic is pivotal in gaining valuable introspection on the study of the constitutional debates and the convention of 1787. The \\"Sage of Hazelwood\\" was a great American patriot, a principled republican and a champion of states rights. His exposition is a keystone for true federalists and defenders of states' rights.  <br /> <br />\\"Sovereignty is the highest degree of political power, and the establishment of a form of government, the highest proof which can be given of its existence. The states could have not reserved any rights by articles of their union, if they had not been sovereign, because they could have no rights, unless they flowed from that source. In the creation of the federal government, the states exercised the highest act of sovereignty, and they may, if they please, repeat the proof of their sovereignty, by its annihilation. But the union possesses no innate sovereignty, like the states; it was not self-constituted; it is conventional, and of course subordinate to the sovereignties by which it was formed.\\" -John Taylor of Caroline.	2005-04-28
US	51650080	R6KSARNVTKR11	1560003197	215202317	The Costs of War: America's Pyrrhic Victories	Books	5	15	17	N	N	War What is it Good For?	~The Costs of War: America's Pyrrhic Victories~ is a compelling and powerful anthology directed against the imperial psychosis of our times. It offers a sweeping indictment of the costs of war in terms of loss of life, the effect on morality in the aftermath, inflation, mounting debt, statism, the loss of civil liberties and economic freedom. A multitude of collaborators have contributed to this powerful anthology including John Denson, Samuel Francis, Thomas Fleming, David Gordon, Paul Gottfried, Robert Higgs, Justin Raimondo, Murray Rothbard, Joseph Stromberg, Clyde Wilson, et al. In the words of Justin Raimondo, the \\"noninterventionist movement\\" has been \\"relegated to the margins of American politics, confined to pacifists and extreme leftists, on the one hand, and extreme rightists, including libertarians as well as members of the John Birch Society, on the other.\\" Many of my nominally conservative friends have been of the mindset that a martial obsession is a novel conservative value. However, if they study history more objectively than they will find that there is nothing particularly conservative about being \\"warlike\\" and obsessed with \\"militarism,\\" particularly within the Old Right conservative tradition at home in America. The neoconservative interlopers have led them astray. Notwithstanding our present-day abandonment of the non-interventionist tradition, its roots go back deep into America history. The founding fathers enshrined their commitment to non-interventionism in the Neutrality Act of 1793. \\"The Great rule of conduct for us,\\" proclaimed George Washington, \\"in regard to foreign Nations is in extending our commercial relations to have with them as little political connection as possible... It is our true policy to steer clear of permanent alliances with any portion of the foreign world.\\" Thomas Jefferson further lauded the virtue of strategic independence, in proclaiming: \\"Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations; entangling allianceswith none.\\" John Quincy Adams surmised, \\"America does not go abroad, in search of monsters to destroy. She is the well-wisher to the freedom and independence of all. She is the champion and vindicator only of her own.\\" Some of our \\"monsters\\" in recent years whether Osama Bin Ladin or Saddam Hussain were actually considered our allies. Moreover, these \\"monsters\\" were foreign aid recipients and are actually \\"monsters\\" of our own countenance at one time. In my humble opinion, America's security lies in a foreign policy based on strategic independence and armed neutrality, not in reckless intervention abroad or in countless foreign entanglements, alliances, and commitments to international bodies like the United Nations.  Many people see the Second World War as a defining case against non-interventionism, but if they studied history more objectively than they would see how American intervention in the so called war to end all wars, the Great War, in fact paved the way for the Great Crusade in the Second World War. Woodrow Wilson's intervention in the Great War and his campaign to \\"make the world safe for democracy\\" actually served to make the world safe for both Hitler and Stalin. The seeds of Nazi Germany were planted by the forced abdication of the Kaiser and the vehement economic retribution perpetrated by the Western Allies like England and France against Germany, which only served to destabilise Germany and radicalise her body politic.  John Denson astutely surmises, \\"The greatest accomplishment of Western Civilization is arguably the achievement of individual liberty through limits on the power of the state. In the war-torn twentieth-century, we rarely hear that one of the main costs of armed conflict is the long-term loss of liberty to winners and losers alike.\\" War for America, despite our overwhelming victories, has been one Pyrrhic victory after the other. \\"Beyond the obvious costs of dead and wounded soldiers, there is the lifetime struggle of veterans to live with their nightmares and their injuries; the hidden economic costs of inflation, debts, and taxes; and more generally the damages caused to our culture, our morality, and to civilisation at large.\\" With this erudite anthology, Denson and many others illustrate the costs of war and the heavy toll that an imperial mindset unleashes on a nation. To encapsulate some of the brilliant content therein: Richard Gamble takes on the perennial champion of imperialism in the nineteenth-century Abraham Lincoln in a terse analysis of his sordid legacy, his war of aggression;  Richard Raico sketches the costs of America's needless involvement in the Great War, in an essay entitled `World War I: The Turning Point;' Robert Higg's profound essay entitled `War and Leviathan' sketches a history of how war preparedness has led to a continual aggrandisement of power in the hands of the state while proving itself to be detrimental to freedom; and Paul Gottfried asks the most heterodox question of our time, in his essay `Is Modern Democracy Warlike?'  This book squarely challenges the prevailing myth that our sustained history of war in the twentieth-century has made us freer and secured more freedom at home. War is an engine for aggrandisement of power in the hands of state, centralisation, as well as sweeping cultural and moral changes. After WWII, Americans became acclimated to payroll withholding, a hefty income tax, and a mammoth centralised bureaucracy. Nonetheless, the idea that there is somehow salvific cleansing power in the spilt blood of the America G.I. continues to prevail. I whole-heartedly recommend this book. Thomas Woods put it best, \\"The Costs of War is easily one of the most important books to emerge from American conservatives in a generation.\\" I whole-heartedly recommend this jewel, which is a reminder of the costs of war and a defender of the non-interventionist tradition which must be recovered.	2005-04-27
US	51650080	R8820XXOZ8A3W	0380977605	376951240	Partisans and Redcoats: The Southern Conflict That Turned the Tide of the American Revolution	Books	4	11	14	N	N	The War for American Independence on the Southern Front	~Partisans and Redcoats: The Southern Conflict That Turned the Tide of the American Revolution~ is a succinct and readable narrative history of the American War for Independence with a focus on the Carolinas and the Southern theater. The cast of characters includes patriots like Martha Bratton, Horatio Gates, Joseph Kershaw, and Francis Marion. \\"The American Revolution was won in the South by determined backcountry patriots,\\" notes Edgar. \\"Some, such as Andrew Pickens and Thomas Sumter, became American folk heroes.\\" I really like Edgar's book, because it is short and sweet. The body of the text is just one-hundred and forty-five pages. What makes this succinct book so remarkable is that Edgar tells the story and puts you in the shoes of the backcountry frontiersmen. The backdrop he paints of colonial South Carolina prior to the war shows how fragile civilization and civil society was on the frontier. He astutely explains the rigors of frontier life in the Carolina backcountry. He captures the essence of the tempestuous and rugged individualism of the Scotch-Irish settlers which were predominant in the region. Edgar tells of the sectarian animosities and strife that ensued. In one case, the tale of feuding Ulster Scot Presbyterians and Anglicans was rather humorous.** Law and order was hard to come by on the frontier, and criminal gangs of thieves and extortionists were rampant. Blood feuds and social strife ensued as a general rule. This gave rise to vigilante and posse groups like the Regulators who were eventually deputized by the state assembly. Eventually, the forces of ordered liberty quelled the forces of anarchy. The vigilante groups after some abuses were obliged to check one another at the behest of the State legislature. Former elements of such groups like the Regulators and Moderators provided foot soldiers, scouts, and frontiersmen to field the Continental Army and the State Militia during the war.     British policy was coldly deliberate in its policy of total war. Though total war was typically only felt in areas of entrenched, stubborn resistance: the South Carolina backcountry was such a place. \\"In a Civil War, there is no admitting of neutral characteristics, and... those who are not clearly with us must so far be considered against us,\\" noted British Commander Lord Cornwallis. Edgar catches the drama in his narrative history of families being torn apart and communities being torn asunder amidst reprisals and counter-reprisals. Partisans and Redcoats captures the sacrifices of patriots, the costliness of war, and the devastation it wrings out on civil society. Not surprisingly, the heat of the war gave rise to lawlessness, and Edgar tells some tales of home invasions and plunder. The peasant rabble of the South Carolina backcountry, so deplored by the Tory gentry actually gave the British one heck of a fight. The partisans were greatly underestimated and dismissed as boorish incompetents incapable of waging civilised war. Through, the two-pronged efforts of regular militia and guerilla insurgents, the South Carolinian patriots walloped the British. Their contribution played no small role in the final victory of the American cause. For this reason, battles like Cowpens, King's Mountain and Guilford Courthouse deserve as much consideration as Saratoga, Monmouth, and Yorktown. George Washington's northern armies played cat and mouse games with the British, and seemed destined to lose, but managed to stay afloat. The southern campaign tied down British troops, ate at their morale, depleted their manpower, and paved the way for the climatic victories in Yorktown. The southern contribution in my opinion is sometimes downplayed, ignored, and marginalized. Nonetheless, studying the war for independence in perspective makes one realize that the fraternal bonds of the various regions from New England to Georgia was vitally requisite to the overall success of the cause. The combined efforts of patriots in the thirteen States worked to break the yolk of Tory tyranny. The underdog Continental Army and a ragtag colonial militia defeated of one of the greatest powers of the eighteenth-century-the British Empire.    All things considered, Walter Edgar's book is a real treat. It is easy to read, straightforward, and it packs a punch despite its brevity. Edgar's manuscript captures the fierceness of the conflict in the Carolina backcountry and the breadth of sacrifices made on all sides. The War for American Independence was a hard fought contest. The odds were greatly against the rabble rebel armies of America taking on the might of the British Empire. Providence ordained otherwise and defied those odds. During the American War for Independence, many were content to sit on sidelines whether it was the coastal city slickers from Charleston to Boston had little resolve to fight British even if they had secessionist sympathies. Yet many clergy rallied behind the cause. The conflict was in fact dubbed a \\"Presbyterian Parson's Rebellion\\" by Tories in England and loyalists here at home. The predominantly Scotch-Irish population of the Carolina backcountry didn't like dishonored covenants between the governors and the governed, and frankly they didn't much care for the English either. They were hearty frontiersmen who hacked it out of the wilderness, bearing their children along the way. Their tempestuous antagonism against the English played no small part in the fervor that brought the cause for American Independence to fruition. In the end, their love of liberty and their hatred of tyranny compelled them to break the yolk of Tory tyranny.    * * * * * * * * * * *     **Here is an excerpt, which I found particularly funny about Presbyterian-Anglican relations in the backcountry of South Carolina in the mid-eighteenth century. It is told from the perspective a missionary of English pedigree who was sent to one of the token Anglican parishes in the Carolina backcountry. I found this story ratheramusing... Anyway, jump ahead to page nine if you want to get to the gist of the story. FYI The quotations are the words of Rev. Woodmason, an Anglican clergyman.    [p. 5]  The Scots-Irish were proud of their heritage. They were, first of all, Scots. They knew their nation's tortured history and its mistreatment by the English. They were fervent Presbyterians whose forebears had been persecuted for their beliefs. They were family men and women and tended to stick close by their kinfolks.     ...  [p. 7]  \\"The People,\\" wrote Reverend Woodmason, \\"all new Settlers, extremely poor-Live in Logg Cabbins like Hogs-and their Living and Behavior as rude or more so than the savages.\\"   ...  [p. 9-10]  It would not be unfair to say that the backcountry was close to being a state of nature. There were settlements, but the only social organization was the church. Woodmason was an Anglican missionary to the backcountry settlements, but there were only two Anglican congregations beyond Parish End. There were several Quaker meetings... but most were Baptists or Presbyterians.   ...  Sectarian animosities were fierce. Scotch-Irish Presbyterians were fervently devoted to their churches and just as fervently antagonistic to those who did not share their particular beliefs. They were the bane of Woodmason's existence and harassed him and any who attended his services. In one location, \\"[a] Presbyterian fellow carried off the Key to the Meeting House\\" so that services could not be held indoors. At Hanging Rock Creek, Woodmason was roughed up by \\"lawless Ruffians\\" who been hired by \\"debauch'd licentious fellows, and Scots Presbyterians.\\" When the Anglican missionary persisted in holding a service, \\"a Gang of Presbyterians\\" interrupted it by \\"hallooing and whooping... like Indians.\\" In the High Hills of the Santee, some Presbyterians \\"hir'd a Band of Rude fellows to come to Service who brought with them fifty-seven dogs (for I counted them) which in Time of Service they set to fighting,and I was obliged to stop.\\" A little later, Woodmason took a dog to the home of the area's leaders and informed him \\"fifty-seven Presbyterians came that Day to Service, and that I had converted one of them, and brought Him home.\\" He was fortunate to have been able to live to tell such a story.	2005-04-24
US	51650080	R37SWF82LRJ5F9	0851513832	578556656	A Body of Divinity (Body of Practical Divinity)	Books	4	38	39	N	N	The Body of Practical Divinity	~The Body of Practical Divinity~ is a great classic systematic theology of Reformed Protestantism. The author Thomas Watson was a Puritan divine and offers an erudite systematic theology for the Christian believer from a Reformed-Puritan perspective. The crux of the volume is soteriology (which is the doctrine of salvation according to Jesus Christ.) Not surprisingly, he makes it clear that salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone. Watson is rigorously Scriptural in his exegesis, and he enunciates the textual meaning and gives substantive amplification to the Word of God. He explains the Doctrines of God, Divine Sovereignty, Salvation, Sin, and the Trinity with remarkable clarity. His thinking is sound and Scriptural. Puritan theology sets the diadem of our salvation on Christ, and Christ alone, and it is solely on the basis of his meritous work that we are saved. The body of the text is not at all archaic, as it has a fluid feel and is easy to read. The great Prince of Preachers, C.H. Spurgeon, opined of Watson's book, as being \\"one of the most precious of the peerless works of the Puritans.\\" Soli Deo Gloria!	2005-04-24
US	51650080	R4K0MAAYLAGLP	0761525548	842882505	Robert E. Lee on Leadership : Executive Lessons in Character, Courage, and Vision	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Learning Leadership and Life Lessons from a Great General	~Robert E. Lee on Leadership: Executive Lessons in Character, Courage and Vision~ is in the words of former Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger, \\"A splendid and inspiring book.\\" The author H.W. Crocker III sketches an extraordinary little book profiling the extraordinary character and courage of the South's esteemed General Robert E. Lee. This timely piece chronicles the man Robert E. Lee, his spiritual convictions and extraordinary character forged amidst great hardship. The Lee family may have had aristocratic roots, but Lee embraced the esteem of the family name with humbleness instead of pomp and splendor. The great Confederate general is renowned by southroners, Union sympathizers, and Europeans alike. The esteemed Lord Acton sought dialogue with Lee after the war. President Theodore Roosevelt said affectionately that Lee was \\"the very greatest of all the great captains that the English-speaking peoples have brought forth.\\" British Prime Minister Winston Churchill observed, \\"His noble presence and gentle, kindly manner were sustained by religious faith and an exalted character.\\"     Lee was an astute student, and excelled at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. He served with honor as scout and engineer in the U.S.-Mexican War making a reputation for himself. He developed a little business acumen trying to manage his plantation at Arlington. Lee was great because he was unassuming and was a gentleman of Christian piety. He learned from his mistakes-and yes he made mistakes. Lee was a brilliant strategist and considering the lowly status of his underdog army, he defied the odds. Lee in humility credited providence for his successes. Lee was also great because he surrounded himself by great men, as Crocker highlights in the chapter entitled Lee's Lieutenants. Both Stonewall Jackson and cavalry leader Jeb Stuart were bold, daring, and ultimately gave their life to the cause they fought alongside General Lee for.    Just as his father General Lighthorse Harry Lee before him, Lee pledged his life and sacred fortune for the cause of his country. As a patriot, Lee simply could not conceptualize a patriotism that didn't put God and Family first. In 1861, as Lee was summoned by the Lincoln administration with a prestigious offer to command a Union Army, his conscience dictated his forthright refusal of such an offer. To trample on home and hearth in the name of an abstraction like the \\"Union\\" was beyond Lee's comprehension. He refused to lead an army to invade the southron states. The Union after all was formed for the security of the several States and the people therein, not to wage war on her people. The proposition established in the 1776 Declaration of Independence, which posited \\"rule by consent of the governed\\" plainly goes against the idea of tethering the Union back together by force. With the eventual secession of his home state and its accession to the Confederate States, Lee led his sword in defense of his beloved Commonwealth of Virginia. The cost borne by Lee to stand by the courage of his convictions was enormous. Being a northern Virginian he soon lost his much-loved estate straddling the Potomac yet he boldly named his army, the Army of Northern Virginia because that was the ground he defiantly intended to hold. Always daring, Lee would eventually take war to the north in Pennsylvania.     Commendation is to be given to H.W. Crocker Jr. for profiling the late Robert Edward Lee and garnering lessons on leadership from this extraordinary leader. The great value of the text is it's readibility and Crocker possesses a unique dynamism as a storyteller which adds lustre to it. Lee was neither a politician nor a statesman, but he is an admirable exemplar of what true leadership is. In sum, there are a great deal of life lessons to be learned from the wily Grey Fox.    \\"...a union that can only be maintained by swords and bayonets and in which strife and civil war are to take the place of brotherly love and kindness has no charm for me. I shall mourn for my country and for the welfare of mankind. If the union is dissolved and the government disrupted, I shall return to my native state and share the miseries of my people, and save in defence, will draw my sword on none.\\" -Robert E. Lee	2005-03-25
US	51650080	R2I0AQL3ZUCMLJ	0670032840	334352306	Rising '44: The Battle for Warsaw	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Tears of melancholy and sorrow flow mingled down	~Rising '44: The Battle for Warsaw~ is an intriguing if not fascinating sketch of the Polish Resistance to Nazi German occupation. However, the melancholy of this book is all to real. It's very depressing if not gloomy, as is the barbarity of the Nazis and the so called \\"liberators\\" in the Red Army. Davies is probably one of the leading English-speaking historians on Polish history and intimately familiar with their struggles. As such, he offers an appreciative if not romanticized account of the Polish resistance in Warsaw and surrounding areas. Norman Davies has sketched an awe-inspiring, but rather bleak and depressing history of the resistance perpetuated by the Home Army (Armia Krajowa - AK) in Warsaw and the aloof exiled Polish government in London. August 1, 1944 marked the impetus of the Warsaw Rising in Poland as nearly 40,000 members of the Home Army descended from the sewers and ghetto cellars. The rising was brutally crushed, as the Red Army \\"liberators\\" looked on. The sad and sometimes forgotten reality is that the Red Army halted their advance and sat idle across the Vistula River as the Wehrmacht and SS completely crushed the Polish insurgents.     The Warsaw Rising is often confounded with the Ghetto Rising of 1943 due to Soviet-era miseducation and a general Marxist-Leninist disregard for the historical struggles of Polish nationalists. It covers a near decade of Stalinist tyranny in the later leg of the book, which I didn't have patience to do anything more than skim. Most nations having endured such struggles as the Poles did in the mid-1940s tend to have welcomed liberation. For the Polish people, they had no such good fortune. The Soviet \\"liberators\\" merely coopted them from one form of totalitarian tyranny and repression to another. Gestapo and SS torturers were exchanged for NKVD and Red Army butchers. The Warsaw the Soviets \\"liberated\\" was nothing more than rubble and ash heap. Thereafter, the Soviets supplanted the Nazi genocidal terror thatafflicted the Poles with their own political repression, mass-murder, and gulag enslavement. The Soviets even tried covering up their atrocities by passing the buck to the Nazis, such as the Katyn Forest Massacre that executed over 4,000 Polish military personnel leaving them in mass graves. The liberated Warsaw was barren desolate, but rebuilt anew for political and ideological reasons. Ironically all the monuments were to the Soviet Red Army with obfuscatory history of their Great Patriotic Struggle. The Soviets would have had the memory of the Polish Resistance go down the Orwellian memory hole. Liberation really didn't come until fifty years later. During the 1980s President Reagan played hardball with the Soviets and covertly supported the anti-Soviet Solidarity movement. Shortly thereafter, in the 1989 the Iron Curtain began to crumble and roll back east.    The narrative is interspersed with short capsule stories of the resistance which are informative to say the least. Davies has a certain snide cynicism about the readers' ability to read and comprehend Polish names, so he abbreviates the surnames, which is a rather irritating quirk. Well, I nearly drained a highlighter going through this massive tome. I think it Davis' work was perhaps overkill in terms of the size and scope of the work, as the narrative has a lot of extraneous information and makes a prolonged trek into Soviet era which I didn't care to read in aggregate. He is cognizant of tensions that developed between Jews and Poles when historians engage in competitive martyrdom (or the fights where they claim one another's dead as their own.) As a result, Davies has always approached World War II and Polish history with a measure of sensitivity and objectivity without an ideological agenda. Overall, this book is very erudite, compelling if not gut-wrenching account of the Polish Resistance and Warsaw Rising of 1944.     Post Tenebras Lux (After Darkness Light)	2005-03-02
US	51650080	R3RFMRPDNOHD5I	0764222880	383769649	The God Who Justifies	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	A Masterful Exposition of Justification by Faith Alone	~The God Who Justifies: The Doctrine of Justification~ is a brilliant and erudite defense of the doctrine of justification by faith alone. This is a doctrine that is being ignored and misunderstood and is at the heart of the Gospel message. \\"Justification, in the biblical sense,\\" notes White, \\"is a declaration concerning the relationship of a man to God and his law. It is a legal statement that man is no longer under the curse of the law but stands righteous, just, before the bar of God.\\" Justification is a declaration that holds the believer just in the eyes of God and effectively free from the curse of sin. The crosswork of Jesus Christ, his perfect obedience to the law and his perfect righteousness is the diadem of the believer's justification, and that righteousness is imputed to the believer's account. \\"Justification is a matter of imputation (reckoning, charging): the sinner's guilt is imputed to Christ; the latter's righteousness is imputed to the sinner.\\" Working from the theology of Martin Luther and Jonathan Edwards, James White soundly explains and elucidates how the Protestant doctrine of justification is one of the most perceptive Scriptural truths in the Bible. James White performs a sound exegetical reading of Paul's epistle to the Romans and even brings out the original Greek text. He eschews a synergistic works-salvation system and makes a sound exposition of orthodox Augustinian-Pauline monergism. James White also soundly and exegetically harmonizes the epistle of James with the Pauline epistles. White asserts that the epistle of James is attacking an empty faith with the assertion that \\"faith without works is dead.\\" He expresses his confidence that a true, saving faith has the capacity to provide an external, personal demonstration. The crux of the book is \\"the faith that saves is a faith that clings in helpless dependence upon another: the God who justifies.\\" Thus, it is not Christ's sacrifice plus anything that saves, but Christ and Christ alone who saves. Reformed theologian James White calls believers to a clearer appreciation of the great doctrine of justification and the meritous work of Jesus Christ.<br /><br />The book may not sit well with laity as it is overtly technical in nature and essentially for college-level and seminary students, though the doctrine of justification by faith alone can very easily be elaborately upon and explained, and James White does just that. Moreover, he gives substantive elaboration upon the great systematic epistle of Paul to the Romans. This is a most excellent work and essential for deeper reflection upon the Gospel, and the doctrines of sin, atonement, and justification.<br /><br />For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith; as it is written, \\"The just shall live by faith.\\" -Romans 1:17<br /><br />Sola Fide! Sola Christus! Soli Deo Gloria!who saves. Reformed theologian James White calls believers to a clearer appreciation of the great doctrine of justification and the meritous work of Jesus Christ.  <br /> <br />The book may not sit well with laity as it is overtly technical in nature and essentially for college-level and seminary students, though the doctrine of justification by faith alone can very easily be elaborately upon and explained, and James White does just that. Moreover, he gives substantive elaboration upon the great systematic epistle of Paul to the Romans. This is a most excellent work and essential for deeper reflection upon the Gospel, and the doctrines of sin, atonement, and justification. <br /> <br />For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith; as it is written, \\"The just shall live by faith.\\" -Romans 1:17 <br /> <br />Sola Fide! Sola Christus! Soli Deo Gloria!	2005-02-19
US	51650080	R3HX5GCN1X9UDO	0895264072	46193347	Edmund Burke: Selected Writings and Speeches	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Classical Regnery Anthology of a Conservative Luminary	~Edmund Burke: Selected Writings and Speeches~ is a great anthology of conservative luminary Edmund Burke's political and social writings. Burke is considered by many to be the godfather of conservatism. The Irish-born British conservative entered Trinity College at Dublin in 1744 and later moved to London in 1750. In 1770, in his tract entitled the 'Thoughts on the Cause of the Present Discontents,' he scolded George III for his efforts at undoing the hard-won liberties that were thought to have been secured by the Glorious Revolution. Burke was a champion of the rule of law, and surmised that prerogatives of the king may not usurp that law, and that even the magistrates are to be constrained by the law. He defended the constraining hand of Parliament against the king's usurpations and cronyism in political appointments. He supported principled, calm, deliberative criticism of royal prerogatives by Parliamentarians, which he held to be a vital link in the preservation of the British constitution and ordered liberty.     Burke was an Old Whig, and on the Right side of the political spectrum and had no rosy delusions about human nature. His contemporaries on the Left like Jean-Jacques Rousseau had a positive and a optimistic view of human nature, and in his eyes humanity merely needed to be liberated from the decadent enslaving institutions of civil society. On the other hand, Burke recognized man's sinful nature and innate depravity and incorporated the Augustinian-Christian doctrine of original sin into his political philosophy. \\"Whatever disunites man from God, also disunites man from man,\\" declares Burke. What is more, Burke does not see equality as self-evident, but he astutely observes that inequality is part of the natural order of things. The ideal equality to strive for was equality before the law, not equality of condition or even opportunity. Burke recognized that the illusive search for equality was in fact destructive of the liberty that was to accompanyit because egalitarian ideology was fundamentally at odds with human nature.  For this reason, Burke was opposed to the French Revolution and scolded the Jacobin rebellion for its barbarity, its egalitarian tyranny, and the unattainable antinomy of absolute freedom that was sought after. He likewise abhorred the initial English enthusiasm for the events across the sea in France and lamented that such an upheaval would never afflict England. Yet Burke, an Old Whig was a champion of the Rights of the Englishmen, and spoke out on behalf of the American, Irish and the Indian colonials. \\"Good order is the foundation of all things,\\" quipped Burke in his Reflections on the French Revolution. Burke offered much prescriptive wisdom about reforming and bettering civil society while conserving the vital remnants and traditions so vitally requisite to the continuity of civil society. He yielded his acquiescence of support to the American Cause of 1776 and the Glorious Revolution of 1688. Burke assailed the abuses perpetrated against American colonials in exploitative taxation, arbitrary suspension of the rights of colonials and an overall condescending attitude of contempt that pervaded the attitude of government towards the colonial subjects therein. Burke worked tirelessly for conciliation between British and American colonials, though the Tories prevailed and their efforts to spite and to subjugate the colonials only led to the American colonials' victorious secession by force of arms. Furthermore, Burke was opposed to the aggrandizing of power and the corruption of the law, and recognized that ordered liberty must be upheld. Burke observed, \\"Bad law is the worst sort of tyranny.\\" He was practical and pragmatic to the extent needed without discarding first principles, as he accepted that, \\"All government-indeed, every human benefit and enjoyment, every virtue and every prudent act-is founded on compromise and barter.\\" Yet Burke was mistrustful of concentrated power and observed, \\"Those who have been once intoxicated with power, and have derived any kind of emolument from it, even though but for one year, never can willingly abandon it. They may be distressed in the midst of all their power; but they will never look to anything but power for their relief.\\"    The reductionism and sophistry of modern critics casts conservatives as knaves who nostalgically seek preservation of the status quo irrespective of whatever tyrannies and social pathologies afflict the people. However, Burke above all shows that classical conservatism is not quixotic sentimentalism about tradition but rather a desire to conserve those vital remnants so necessary to continuation of ordered liberty while improving civil society through patient, contemplative, informed and calmly deliberative political dialogue. Sometimes standing up to sheer tyranny through resistance and civil disobedience is in order. Though, \\"Our patience will achieve more than our force,\\" avowed Burke. Burke justly condemned the barbarity of the French Revolution and no doubt considers the interposition of the lesser magistrates as requisite in combating the usurpations of higher magistrates, ministers, and leaders.     All things considered, this brilliant anthology of Burke's more renowned works is certainly a great introduction to the perennial conservative.	2005-02-02
US	51650080	R2YCEZHHJCDFK1	019512118X	929793219	For the Soul of the People: Protestant Protest Against Hitler	Books	4	15	19	N	N	For the Soul of a People: Protestant Protest Against Hitler	~For the Soul of the People: Protestant Protest Against Hitler~ reflects upon the activities of the Christian Protestant resistance to Hitler's Germany. Her book chronicles efforts by the resistance as well as efforts to put the church under the heel of the totalitarian state. The abuses and usurpations by the Nazis are innumerable and the pagan ideology of the Nazi state hoped to supplant the Christian church and herald Hitler as the embodiment of the messiah. The Nazis borrowed Christian concepts of redemption, and promised heaven on earth and a one-thousand year golden age of Nazi rule, and yet they only succeeded in creating its antithesis-a hell on earth.    Like the Soviets, the Germans wanted a church they could keep under their thumb and control if they had to tolerate any at all. In the Soviet Union, a few token congregations were 'tolerated' in major cities like Moscow, and the Soviet stooges heading the congregations therein boasted of their religious freedom, which was primarily for outward consumption as religious repression was the norm. Publicly, their messages were distorted by Soviet propagandists. In Nazi Germany, the people were more resistant to marginalization of Christianity, because it was so ingrained in the hearts and minds of many Germans. The Nazis hoped to muzzle nascent Christian resistance, and demarcated the boundaries of a state-tolerated Christian assembly, under two confessional creeds, both Roman Catholic and Protestant. An organized resistance to the Nazi state and state-tolerated church was present in the underground church of Confessing Christians. These protestors objected vehemently to Nazi edicts-the so called Aryan clauses-that forbid non-Germans from being members of the church. The Gestapo counterintelligence had two sections dedicated to domestic monitoring of religious groups and their resistance, and churches were ridden with moles and informants. The Himmler Decree punished the activities of the Confessing Church, effectively outlawing their seminary studies, exam taking, which made them criminal activities. Yet the Confessing Church persisted, but faced persecution.     The anger of Nazis was kindled in one locale, as local Christians much preferred the tranquility of Bible studies to being spoon fed by Nazi indoctrinators. One Nazi quipped, \\"A migration of people occurs when these so-called Bible studies take place...\\" The pastor soon heard of death threats leaking from the Gestapo. The Confessing Church was bound by a code of ethics, and many refused to turn snitch, as the Berlin Council of Brethren declared: \\"From the standpoint of honor of a Christian and a German man, it is ruled out absolutely that a pastor of the Confessing Church offer himself to the police as an informer on his colleagues... The honor and fellowship... forbid any pastor to contribute, in any form, to a colleague's imprisonment...\\" Their constitution and resolve not to cooperate was perhaps much stronger than Soviet resistance. Yet anti-Christian, politically-correct historians (who seek to malign Christianity) would have you believe that the Christian church was in cozy lockstep with the Nazi party. They offer a few pictures of browbeaten clergy saluting the Fuhrer to vindicate their point.     Many Confessing Christians found their fate in the concentration camps. Dietrich Bonhoeffer believed that for Christian civilization to persevere that Nazi Germany must be brought to desolation. His patriotism compelled him to return to Germany, after seeking refuge in London and New York, even as war was on the horizon and endure suffering alongside his people. He couldn't see himself involved in the reconstruction and ministry there if he would not suffer alongside his people. The Christian Resistance readily admits compromises were made. Many wrestled with the nature of resistance. Bonhoeffer, for example, lamented Hitler was \\"anti-Christ\\" and most be opposed. He came to see compromising the Gospel mission byturning the church into a propaganda instrument for the state and \\"giving that which was holy unto the dogs...\\" (Mt. 7:6) as a most egregious and disreputable compromise that would arouse God's judgment. He was summarily implicated in the Abwehr conspiracy for his loose connections to a plot to assassinate the Fuhrer. Dietrich Bonhoeffer was among the Flossenberg martyrs, and executed just days before the Allies liberated his camp. Bonhoeffer is the archetype of the Christian resistance to tyranny. He would not submit to a self-aggrandizing demigod who trumped the Christian mission of evangelism to all peoples. Hitler zealously persecuted the opposition and heralded destruction as a creative force. Nazi abuses against Christians were so crude as to include plastering churches with anticlerical posters, desecrating religious symbols, smearing excrement on altars and church doors. Clergy were routinely singled out for violence, assassination, internment. Throngs of Hitler Youth paraded with shouts of \\"Death to Christians and the Jews!\\" Those who cooperated willingly desecrated their altars with swastikas and compromise their pulpit sermons with Nazi propaganda.    Barnett touches on some of the more nefarious abuses, though more could be chronicled. She makes light of lack of resistance in some circles and tries to illuminate considerations for lack of resistance. Overall, Barnett does an objective overview of their efforts of the resistance and Protestant protest. This book is mildly hampered by the small print, overtly unreadable passages that lose their fluidity, thus the text is hard to read at times. The breadth of content and the reasonable objectivity redeem it. Barnett's objectivity is much better than other books coming from Marxist circles. Other books on church-state relations in Nazi Germany are little more than anti-Christian diatribes. These biased historians act as though all Christians and Christian clergy walked in cozy lockstep with the Nazi state and seldom put up even a whimper of protest. (I give it a 3.5 out of 5.0 star rating.)     \\"It is the attitude to religion which separates and must always separate Conservative thinking from National Socialism. The basis of Conservative politics is that obedience to God and faith in him must also determine the whole of public life. Hitler and National Socialism adopt a fundamentally different position... It is a fact that Hitler... only acknowledges race and its demands as the highest law governing state activity. That is materialism irreconcilable with faith and Christianity.\\"   --Ewald von Kleis-Schmenzin	2004-12-29
US	51650080	R2999NLQ5NRC5Y	0761520570	746070341	The Rise and Fall of the Soviet Empire	Books	4	17	20	N	N	A Solid History of the Soviet Union on the World Scene	~The Rise and Fall of the Soviet Empire~ by Brian Crozier is a solid history of the Soviet empire. Crozier gives a good backdrop to the embryonic beginnings of the empire as it takes up the mantle of Russian nation. He rightly recognizes and soundly documents the Soviet Union's concerted effort to broaden its influence and power on the world scene since its impetus. The COMINTERN was aggressive to spread communism throughout the world, and particularly focused on Spain and Italy in the early twentieth century. The totalist rivalries between communism and fascism are written with remarkable clarity. Following World War II, FDR naively sold eastern Europe into communist slavery and Stalin quickly inaugurated satellization. The resistance to communist rule in Hungary and Czechoslovakia are well documented.     Crozier does not fall into the fallacies of leftist revisionists who would be guilty of excluding events and obfuscating truth. The Soviet Union actively sponsored terrorism, and used covert violence in furtherance of its political agenda to undermine the West. Some terrorists were not orthodox Marxist-Leninists, but received ample support nonetheless, such as the Irish Republican Army in Ulster, Argentina's Montoneros. The Soviets even maintained a terrorist training school dubbed the Patrice Lumumba Friendship University to train terrorists and foment revolution in the Third World. The infamous Ilich Ramirez Sanchez, better known as Carlos the Jackal, a Venezuelan born son of a Marxist lawyer was one of their products. The Jackal spread a wave of terror throughout Europe. He was culpable for bombings in Paris, numerous murders, assassinations and the kidnapping of OPEC ministers in Vienna. This stark reality is something Marxist apologists ignore.    Leftists criticize Crozier for his introspection and \\"bias,\\" but I'm apt to question their \\"bias\\" considering they ignore Soviet Stalinist atrocities, repression in eastern Europe and the Third World, as well as their state-sponsored terrorist campaigns. Crozier finds no fault with the CIA for whatever hand they may have had in Augusto Pinochet's coup to overthrow the Marxist Allende. Pinochet brought stability and prosperity to Chile, and saved it the perils of economic hardship from collectivization. American interests were served in stopping the spread of communism. Crozier poignantly chronicles the turning point of the Cold War where the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan is foiled and becomes their own Vietnamese quagmire. Thereafter, Ronald Reagan stifles the Red takeover of Grenada and then comes the period of Glasnost. The waning years of Soviet hegemony are covered with amazing clarity.    The vocal criticism volleyed against this volume is mostly by embittered lefties, American college-campus Marxists, and liberals in denial about communist crimes and the inhumane nature of the Soviet system. Crozier, a London-based historian is blunt and finds no fault with West and the United States for efforts to thrawt Soviet expansion. Ronald Reagan was right in calling the Soviet Empire an \\"evil empire.\\"     \\"The only thing necessary for evil to triumph is for good men to do nothing.\\" -Edmund Burke	2004-12-29
US	51650080	R357EAXYHH1CG	076152553X	349784694	The Tyranny of Good Intentions: How Prosecutors and Bureaucrats Are Trampling the Constitution in the Name of Justice	Books	5	93	99	N	N	An Indictment of the Current Legal State of Affairs	~The Tyranny of Good Intentions: How Prosecutors and Bureaucrats Are Trampling the Constitution in the Name of Justice~ is a solid critique of our nation's criminal justice system, which has strayed egregiously from its fundamentals and is continuously assailing the Rights of the Englishmen and the constitutional protections of our citizenry. \\"Good intentions have transformed law,\\" note the authors, \\"from a shield for the innocent to a weapon used by the police. Having lost the law, we have acquired tyranny.\\" With increasing lawlessness, the nefarious tactics of law enforcement are increasingly becoming indistinguishable from those of the \\"criminal underworld.\\" The Anglo-American common law tradition is losing ground to zealous prosecutors, insensitive regulators, and overly ambitious law enforcement. They are increasingly blinded by ambition and lacking any ethical sense of fairness and integrity as many seldom afford dignity or concern for those they investigate.    The onset of the book highlights the cherished Rights of the Englishmen and offers a little legal history and some jurisprudence lessons. Innocent people are increasingly caught up in a bureaucratic web where vindictive prosecutors and uncaring bureaucrats destroy lives and livelihoods. As the authors make clear, the reason for abuses which are prevalent perhaps owes to a loss of the sense of justice. \\"The function of justice is to serve truth.\\" When the quest for truth is lost, the focus on justice is dispensed with, and ambition of bureaucrats and prosecutors runs roughshod over the rights of the accused. In earlier times, the honor of the legal profession compelled prosecutors to have the utmost respect for the individual: \\"They respected people's reputations, and English judges wanted no innocent blood on their conscience... Their abhorrence of convicting the innocent was reinforced by religious beliefs of the age, such as accountability before God and the afterlife, and bad experiences with arbitrary judicial practices, such as Star Chamber proceedings in which due process and evidentiary standards were absent.\\" In more recent times, prosecutors \\"will pick people that he thinks he should get, rather than pick cases that need to be prosecuted,\\" notes Robert Jackson in 1940. This U.S. Attorney General and later Supreme Court Justice offered a ubiquitous warning of the most dangerous power of the prosecutor: \\"With the law books filled with a great assortment of crimes, a prosecutor stands a fair chance of finding at least some technical violation of some act on the part of almost anyone. In such a case, it is not a question of discovering the commission of a crime... it is a question of picking the man and then searching the law books, or putting investigators to work, to pin some offense on him. It is in this realm-in which prosecutor picks some person whom he dislikes or desires to embarrass, or selects some group of unpopular persons and then looks for an offense, that the greatest danger of prosecuting power lies.\\" The \\"real crime becomes that of being unpopular... being attached to the wrong political views\\" or just simply being \\"obnoxious\\" to the prosecutor. The authors too make it clear the task of the prosecutors is not to go on \\"fishing expeditions\\" or of drawing family, friends and colleagues of the accused into a web of harassment and accusations or charges. The foremost aim of the justice system was the search for truth, and it was pursued alongside the sacrosanct notion of protecting at all times the rights and dignity of the accused or the suspect of an investigation. Those that stand accused should always be given the presumption of innocence. Though, naive people in custodial interrogation are often compelled to incriminate themselves by zealous investigators who deceptively make their case appear so ironclad as if they have no other choice. Today, as Jackson and Stratton make clear, many prosecutors and investigators are not above evidence tampering or planting, instigating instead of investigating, crafting circumstantial evidence by continual manipulation of a suspect, egregious psychological intimidation and setting up stings to entrap suspects. For the capricious prosecutor who cares only about racking up statistics, the ends justify the means. Thus, using Stalinist tactics such as those used in the case of Nicholas Bukarin is not out of the question.     Capricious asset forfeiture laws and arbitrary regulatory takings in some states encroach upon property rights. It allows police seizure of property in some cases with mere probable cause and destroying any semblance of due process. Many asset forfeiture pursuits pay little regard to the guilt or innocence of parties. Forfeiture laws allow law enforcement agencies to utilize and divvy up seized assets. Horrendous abuses where drug stings or busts transpire with third parties on someone's property have been used to justify seizure of that property even in such cases, where the owner has no involvement whatsoever or perhaps he merely reported it to authorities. The spoils of forfeited assets are often used to finance law enforcement and regulatory agencies. Budget cuts, spending freezes, and imprudent lawmakers compel some agencies to financially sustain more of their activities not only by fines but also heavy forfeitures. This only acts as an incentive for more abuse. In California, for example, luxurious mansions have been forfeited and turned into posh police precincts. The incentives for forfeiture abuse are omnipresent.    Roberts and Stratton make light of Crimes without Intent where the mens rea (intent) requirement is being vanquished. \\"Foremost among the rights of Englishmen is the requirement that no one can be prosecuted for a crime without evidence that a crime has occurred and evidence that links the accused to the crime\\" beyond a reasonable doubt. These protections serve to guard against unintended or accidental crimes. Oliver Wendell Holmes observed \\"even a dog distinguishes between being stumbled over and being kicked.\\" Accidents are now being criminalized by zealous regulators and prosecutors. The authors cite the Exxon Valdez tanker spill case where the rule of law is trumped. In this case, a liability for a civil wrong is criminalized effectively blurring the line between civil and criminal law. This is a most dangerous precedent and any negligence on the part of Exxon should not be maligned as a criminal act since there was no intent to deliberately pollute the waters. Exxon didn't self-consciously set out to destroy its own ship and had nothing to gain by such an act. A non-existent conspiracy on the part of Exxon to pollute the Prince William Sound was contrived. Many other startling cases are cited. Bills of attainder and ex post facto laws are banned explicitly in our Constitution, but it hasn't stopped the government from utilizing such odious devices in indictments.     A chapter on Retroactive Law makes light of laws passed after the fact that criminalize or make civil liabilities out of actions that transpired long before they were illegal. Other chapters surmise the attack on cherished legal protection, the demise of attorney-client privilege where the government seeks to turn defense counsels into government spies.  Francis Bacon declared that \\"the greatest trust between men is the trust of giving counsel.\\" If this unassailable right is lost, defense counsels will be scarcely discernible from impotent Soviet public defenders who were little more than handmaids of the prosecutors. Forfeiting Justice is another ominous chapter; and it recants a tale of greedy government officials seeking to foreclose on a desirable private beachfront property surrounded by a national park. The owner objected to selling his property. Trying to implicate a multimillionaire beach property owner, they contrived probable cause and lead to a multi-agency no-knock SWAT operation into Donald Scott's house. Alarmed by the noise, Scott arose with a gun in hand in self-defense and was promptly shot dead. That warrant was his death warrant. A chapter entitled Ambition over Justice cites numerous examples of prosecutorial and police misconduct. It also makes light of how ethics are frequently lost today. J. Edgar Hoover found sting operations to be morally repugnant particularly those that sought to set snares and entrapments for people (especially hapless innocents with no prior history of involvement in such crimes.)  His concern was that law enforcement making use of the nefarious methods of the underworld would only act to corrupt the law and hurt the innocent. Attempting to entrap or entice a suspect to commit an unrelated crime is common. Efforts to pile charges on a suspect through sting operations can give zealous prosecutors ammunition to intimidate suspect and elicit a trumped up plea bargain. The use of the testimony of police informants and ruses who may themselves be seeking to avoid prosecution presents credibility problems as well. Some informants are driven by sense of self-importance and those that simply want to be utilized again by police may act deceptively to incriminate suspects.    Abdicating Legislative Power makes light of stunning abrogation of Congressional responsibility in recent decades. The authors bear out that Congress should not be able to delegate away its powers, with \\"all legislative powers\\" vested in elected representatives. The ancient Anglo-Saxon legal maxim Delegata potestas non potest delagari (\\"a delegated power cannot itself be delegated\\") is violated in such instances. The purpose is to maintain accountability amongst lawmakers and keep them amenable to the people. Yet the federal regulatory state has countless unaccountable agencies that create laws, execute them, and adjudicate over violations. Having an agency that is judge, jury and executioner is against every principle of free constitutional government, separation of powersand federalism. Administrative courts are little more than kangaroo courts of the bureaucracies. A convicted defendant can defer a judgment to the independent federal judiciary, but most federal judges sustain the administrative judgments ostensibly since they lack \\"expertise.\\"    There are still more chapters. I've sketched a cursory synopsis of this book in hopes of capturing the gravity of the current crisis and the breadth of this work that Stratton and Roberts have produced. This book is succinct, yet multi-faceted, and highly recommended not just for aspiring jurists but anyone interested in preserving our Anglo-American common law tradition. Our cherished constitutional protections may be egregiously imperiled and vanquished if abuses go unabated and reforms are not put in place. This book is a summons for concerned citizens, legislators, and yes even government attorneys of integrity to act to uphold and restore our cherished legal protections to their proper standing. This book is more a diagnosis only offers a few solutions without much detail. As an aside, Charles Colson has offered prescriptive wisdom on possible legal reforms, establishing restorative justice, and doing away with our modern Pharisaic system of justice.     Roberts is a journalist, economist, and a former official with the Reagan administration. He is a member of the Virginia and D.C. bar and has taught at Georgetown Law. Stratton and Roberts offer meaningful prospects for reform-with a sigh at the perils of ignoring the tyranny of good intentions that has crept upon us. Moreover, preserving a fair, judicious and equitable system of criminal justice is not a conservative, liberal or even libertarian cause. This book has not surprisingly educed praise from all corners of the political spectrum from right to left-including that of G. Gordon Liddy, Milton Friedman, and Alan Dershowitz.    \\"Government is not reason. It is not eloquence. It is a force, like fire: a dangerous servant and a terrible master.\\" -George Washington	2004-12-24
US	51650080	R2DJA8HNVPE46Y	188292648X	429338738	Robert Nisbet: Communitarian Traditionalist (Library of Modern Thinkers)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Profiling a great twentieth-century social thinker	~Robert Nisbet : Communitarian Traditionalist~ is a biographical sketch about the life and essentially the ideas of this influential twentieth-century sociologist and social thinker. Sociology has long been the mainstay of statist liberals and radical collectivists, and Nisbet is definitely out of touch with the quixotic or authoritarian mindset of most sociologists. Brad Lowell Stone's research is highly recommended and an excellent overview of Nisbet's social thinking. It is prudent to read Nisbet's books in tandem with Stone's biography. Stone points out some of Nisbet's influences, which are rather fascinating. Nisbet was weaned on the writings of Southern Agrarians like Crowe, Ransom and Tate who penned _I'll Take My Stand_ in the 1930s. Nisbet also gain insight from the late conservative luminary Russell Kirk, having read his book _The Conservative Mind: From Burke to Eliot_ in 1953 the same year he wrote _The Quest for Community_. Since his assent in the 1950s, the late Robert Nisbet has gained recognition from both the Left and Right. Contemporaneously, his appeal is primarily with those on the Right whether traditionalist or libertarians. Nisbet's sociological thinking is aloof from the statist sociologists who often fail to distinguish between state and community. Essentially Nisbet made a dichotomy between monism and pluralism. The thought of Plato, Hobbes, Compte, Rousseau and Marx embodied monism, while Aristotle, Burke, and De Tocqueville represented the pluralist camp.    Nisbet achieved notoriety for his groundbreaking manuscript, entitled _The Quest for Community_. His thesis therein was remarkable, for he asserted that the contemporary preoccupation with community was a result of the displacement of the intermediary institutions between the individual and the state. These vital institutions of civil society -- namely the family, neighborhood, church, or voluntary and civic associations -- have been trounced upon by an overbearing central state authority. The displacement of these institutions so vital to civil society lead to the accompanying obsession with revitalizing community. The veritable disintegration of community and the intermediary institutions was precipitated by the activities and structure of the modern managerial state. In our time, the centralised state has come close to dissolving the natural bonds and allegiances of civil society. Much of the later twentieth century social pathologies, dependency, poverty, and rampant crime perhaps are incidental to authentic community being grinded in the millstone of central state authority. When the intermediary institutions are displaced, the void is usually filled by central state power, which has the roots of authoritarianism and totalitarianism.     Nisbet is well versed in the classics and history. Gleaning valuable lessons from history, Nisbet recognized the impact of war. Moreover, the state's effort to subordinate all facets of society to the demands of warfare, acts as a solvent that dissolves the natural allegiances and those intermediary institutions between individual and state. Nisbet speaks of Roman History, as being \\"one long sage of conflict between established patria potestas, the sacred and imprescriptible sovereignty of the family in its own affairs, and the imperium militiae, the power vested in military leaders over their troops.\\" As the imperium (empire) supplanted the republic, the traditional kinship society was weakened. Nisbet notes, \\"...the once proud Roman family had been ground down by the twin forces of centralization and atomization.\\" History seems to repeat itself. Nisbet shows the harmonious relationship between the war-state and the welfare-state, and how they feed and nurture one another. Socialists accomplished much of their agenda by the the rise of military socialism. War has a democratizing, egalitarian-leveling tendency which brought about not only universal suffrage but also conscription. Not surprisingly, Nisbet laments, \\"Democracy, in all its variants, is the child of war.\\" The synthesis is the so called \\"welfare-warfare state\\" that libertarians fuss about.     History has proven when alienated individuals lose their community then they often seek a \\"national community\\" to fill the void. Totalitarian states like Nazi Germany quite deliberately laid waste to the remaining intermediary institutions between the individual and the state, and sought to create such a sham community, supplanting all competing allegiances, for total allegiance to the central state. Communist theoretician Antonio Gramsci too, postulated that the socialists could achieve their agenda in the West, by transforming the culture and supplanting the institutions of the old \\"bourgeosie superstructure\\" with their own radicalized institutions. Stone notes, \\"[a]s communities wane, the desire for communal fellowship leads straight to the extension of state power-further eroding the communities that mediate between the individual and the state. It is a melancholy fate.\\"     In sharp contrast to the centralizing statists, Nisbet was a pluralistic communitarian who never confused authentic community with allegiance to a centralized power structure. Incidentally, the appellation of communitarian itself can be a misnomer, since Nisbet stands alone, and most avowed communitarians are simply statists hoping to tether back broken bonds and broken communities under the auspices of the central state.     Nisbet has called for a \\"new laissez-faire,\\" which is a \\"form of laissez-faire that has for its object, not the abstract individual, whether economic or political man, but rather the social group or association.\\" Nisbet would eschew radical libertarianism, and see its adherants as rather peculiar reactionaries. Nisbet recognises the symbiotic relationship between individualism and statism. In modern times, the hyperatomized autonomous cogs that individuals have been reduced to in liberal society, owes to the twin perilsof atomization and centralisation which grinds away at the individual and authentic community. Alienation from the loss of authentic community often compels the intemperate masses  to seek deliverance from state power within a \\"national community.\\" As communities weaken and parochial, regional distinctives begin to fade, the fervor to accumulate central state power becomes overwhelming. Integral to Nisbet's socio-political thought is the medieval principle of subsidiarity, or sphere sovereignty, which emphasized localism, regional cultural diversity, \\"plurality of association, and the division of authority.\\" Subsidiarity, as applied to civil society, means that matters ought to be handled by the smallest (or, the lowest) competent authority. Subsidiarity is a precious gem that has been vanquished, if not lost, and it is among the vital remnants for restoring civil society.    All things considered, Brad Lowell Stone's biography of Robert Nisbet is an excellent introduction to the life and poignant thought of this brilliant man.	2004-12-08
US	51650080	R3HF7PQUTIUD14	1930865074	394281671	Fool's Errands: America's Recent Encounters with Nation Building	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The folly of Clinton-era nation building, case-by-case	~Fool's Errands: America's Recent Encounters With Nation Building~ is a terse analysis and overview of Clinton foreign policy maladministration. It succinctly captures his sad legacy of nation building efforts in the 1990s. Driven by nave Wilsonian idealism, perhaps rosy views of human nature, and a quixotic fixation with seeing \\"democratic enlargement,\\" the Clinton State Department presided over one foreign policy boondoggle after the other. Nation building efforts in Somalia, Bosnia, Haiti, and Kosovo were all entered with the best of intentions. Nonetheless, the end results were spurious victories with limited successes and arguably outright failures in some cases where intervention caused more harm than good. Some contests deemed triumphs are perhaps Pyrrhic victories at best. In such cases, US/UN/NATO babysitting (i.e. peacekeeping) has been deemed semi-permanent, political tripwires are everywhere, and an uneasy peace ensues.     (1) SOMALIA was an emerging crisis duly noted by Bush Senior after a coup d'tat toppled the government in Mogadishu. Bush Senior sponsored increased humanitarian aid following instability and a famine, but withheld a more direct presence. After the coup, the vacuum of power was filled by rival warlords. Thereafter, Clinton soon came on the scene and pushed for more direct intervention. Dempsey and Fontaine paint a startling sketch of war torn nation and give cogent reasoning why well-meaning foreign policy goals led to disaster. Powerful warlords in the cities plundered the spoils of humanitarian aid for their own gain to buy weapons and buy off cadres of foot soldiers to do their bidding. The Somali animosity towards Westerners intensified amidst the chaos; humanitarian workers became victims of warlord violence and street crime. The Western world took note of the stark aforesaid events. The U.S. intervened under U.N. auspices. They were in the precarious position of picking allies from the warlord factions and protecting unarmed U.N. personnel. The thorn in their side was Mohammed Farah Aideed, a dominant urban warlord who pilfered foreign humanitarian aid rather than distribute it equitably. He used the spoils to buy and arm his own armies and finance his criminal syndicate. Aideed was bold and flagrantly attacked UN peacekeepers and killed foreigners. The U.S. responded to these hit-and-run attacks by targeted strikes that summer. In October 1993, 18 U.S. Army Rangers were tragically killed in fighting while hundreds of Somali causalities fell. That conflict drew ominous parallels to Beirut and the quagmire touched a nerve in Washington. Thereafter, many in Congress demanded withdrawal. Clinton lashed out at isolationist \\"poison\\" and lack of U.S. commitment in the aftermath of sharp criticism. Further scandal erupted as millions of U.S. taxpayer dollars were lost to misappropriations, corrupt contract practices and embezzlement at the behest of UNOSOM. The U.S. eventually would relent and for the most part curtailed its presence. Aideed has died in fighting in 1996. Though Somalia is not a happy ever after story, the situation has marginally improved. Having endured Marxist despotism and anarchy, markets have since started to develop in the 1990s. Neighboring Djibouti helped broker a peace conference of Somali factions while an election brought President Hassan to power. Somalia is slowly emerging from the backwater Third World and all without a significant U.S. presence in the nation.    (2) HAITI is another horror story of good intentions gone awry. Haiti has a sad history of being mired in poverty, instability, corruption and economic stagnation with a paltry $250 per capita income. Clinton insisted on making democracy a grandiose cause in trying to strong arm a military junta out of power, and seeking the return of a democratically elected Marxist named Jean Aristide. The consequences of a nave insistence on making the world safe for lofty democratic platitudes are well documented. The Clinton Administration made a fundamental mistake of economic sanctions to expedite a regime change. Clinton only succeeded in cutting the Haitian GDP by fully one-third after the nominal foreign businesses that were there packed their bags. In the end, U.S.-U.N. sponsored sanctions only hurt the Haitian people. The effects of sanctions will likely have repercussions for decades. Clinton sent in Marines to restore Aristide to his palace in Port-au-Prince which was simple enough. Afterwards came massive aid packages and troops that were deemed necessary to train Aristide's security forces and maintain order. The Haitian markets and economic development remained stagnate. Aristide only proved himself to be a corrupt kleptocrat who plundered the lion share of humanitarian aid to line his pockets while buying off protection for himself and his cronies. Haiti has since been mired in more crime and poverty as the corrupt Aristide rigged subsequent elections. Aristide was eventually toppled at dawn of this century, and many observers welcomed it. The present Bush Administration refused to restore him to power much to chagrin of the Fidel-coddling Rep. Charles Rangel of New York. Clinton's policies in Haiti spelled a disaster, and rested on nave insistence on bringing a corrupt, avowed Marxist back to power in the name of democracy. It was also part of a politically correct agenda since Haiti in the early 1990's was being lead by a French Haitian in an essentially black republic. This was a touchstone of intervention for a Democratic administration obliged to defend political correctness over our vital security interests.    (3) BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA, that is a multi-ethnic Bosnian democracy, can be surmised as wishful thinking. The malfeasance in the nation-building campaign by the U.S. and NATO is Bosnia is captured by the chapter's subtitle, the Potemkin State. Potemkin, of course, alludes to the illusory idyllic village settings that were fabricated by Gen. Potemkinin eighteenth century Russia to awe Catherine the Great's courtesans from a distance as they toured her ostensibly idyllic kingdom. The artificiality of the Potemkin Villages came to embody the superficial and halfhearted attempts to reform and liberalize Catherine's kingdom. Happy peasants and happy villages were all a faade. Likewise, Bosnia remains an illusory farce, a state that exists merely on paper. It is deeply divided into mono-ethnic regions with separate standing armies and security forces. Germany helped foment the problem by recognizing the Bosnian State amidst a Civil War. By recognizing a independent Bosnia, Germany and NATO gave a carte blanche to the Bosniacs to wage war against the Serbs. The brokered peace at the Dayton Accord and negotiations came far too late. Germany and NATO exacerbated the crisis and the death toll by their intervention. Thereafter the Albright State Department decided that political correctness and the need for \\"multiethnic democracy\\" trumped the rights of Croats and Serbs. Croats abdicated their Croat settlements in Bosnia as are the Serbs in the New Bosnia. Technically, there really isn't such thing as an ethnic Bosnian. The so called Bosniacs are merely Muslims who live in Bosnia. The conflict in Bosnia was a proving ground for radical Islamists who trained and fought there, and networked with Mujahideen and Al Qaeda. War crimes committed by those other than Serbs are downplayed if not ignored, though all sides have unclean hands. I'm not a Serb apologist nor do I dismiss their atrocities in pointing out that Croats and Bosniacs committed their share as well. The difference is the outside world turned a blind eye to the atrocities committed by the later two nationalities. Serbs didn't initiate hostilities and something has to be said about the fact that the first refugees in 1992 were 40,000 Serbs. Not surprisingly, the prospects for ethnic reintegration are bleak and a multiethnic, cooperative, democratic Bosnia is anillusory farce and a modern Potemkin State. Bosnia is a veritable powder keg ready to go off.    (4) KOSOVO is a quagmire, and perhaps the biggest failure of any nation-building scheme the Clinton Administration contrived. Historically, Serbia has the strongest ties to Kosovo with more than a millennium of ties to the region. The battle of Kosovo against the Ottoman Turks was fought there. Moreover, it is home to innumerable sacred Serbian Orthodox shrines, many of which have been desecrated by Muslim militants. Nonetheless, the policies of the internationalist overseers are inherently philo-Albananian. While the occupiers and the Western media sensationalized accounts of Muslim victims of Serb aggression, many Serbs, Macedonians and Gypsies in the region have suffered immensely and many refugees of the later three nationalities have fled Kosovo. For all the hue and cry about ethnic cleansing, the unintended consequences of NATO policy was the massive ethnic cleansing of non-Albanians. War and terror atrocities only seem to get reported though when Serbs are the culprits. The West-NATO-US aligned itself with the Albanian KLA, which was nothing more than a corrupt, narco-terrorist group involved in illegal drug and arms trafficking as well as white slavery. The CIA, in fact, has long classified the KLA as a terrorist group. The KLA has little interest in the aims of the internationalist cadre behind KFOR, preferring instead a Greater Albania including Kosovo purified of non-Albananians. Kosovo will likely remain in the economic doldrums since its political status remains in limbo. The only foreign investment seems to be in security forces, building and maintenance of support structures for occupying peacekeepers. The economic prospects of Kosovo are in limbo, and international controls greatly hinder prospects of burgeoning markets or foreign investment. Investors simply lack confidence in an unstable region that is locked in political limbo for perpetuity.    President Bush said prior to his election in 2000, \\"I don't think our troops ought to be used for what's called nation building.\\" I tend to agree, but I have not changed mind on the subject. This book is vitally requisite for addressing the contemporary issues as the issue United States continues to be naively obsessed with reckless intervention in the name of \\"democratic enlargement,\\" furtherance of Wilsonian idealistic ideology and international human rights agendas. If we want lessons from history, we have to look no further than the last decade of the last century. Nation building takes more than imperious regime changing by superpowers and copious amounts of foreign aid. Free governments cannot be simply imposed. Nations must be built from within from slow cultural and political transitions. The Clinton foreign policy gurus act as though democracy is some tangible commodity for export abroad, and ignore how fragile the institutions of free government really are. They misread cultural, historical and strategic considerations before inaugurating their campaign of reckless interventionism and nation building. Bombing a region or country into the ground and whimsically rebuilding it into a free democracy seldom goes as planned. Gunpoint democracy has proven itself to be an illusory farce; the four major attempts at nation building in the 1990's were dismal failures. Dempsey and Fontaine substantiate this assertion in their book with sound reasoning and a trenchant analysis.    \\"Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.\\" -George Santayana	2004-12-05
US	51650080	R2Y6CJITR5BQJT	0060749849	105052032	Rome Wasn't Burnt in a Day: The Real Deal on How Politicians, Bureaucrats, and Other Washington Barbarians are Bankrupting America	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An Indictment of the failed Republican Revolution of 1994	~Rome Wasn't Burnt in a Day : The Real Deal on How Politicians, Bureaucrats, and Other Washington Barbarians are Bankrupting America~ proves that fiscal conservatism is not a hallmark of being a good ole boy in the Republican Congress these days. Joe Scarborough was a member of the United States House of Representatives from 1995 to 2001 and now is a political pundit on MSNBC. He offers a scathing critique of GOP sellouts with P.J. O'Rourke's adroit sense of humor. This book essentially deals with Congress, fiscal and budget issues, and big government. Scarborough asserts that the Republican mainstream is anything but \\"fiscally conservative\\" and that constitutionally-limited government is a hollow platitude with most of them in Congress.     A decade ago, the Republican Revolution of 1994 was certainly welcomed by me when it occured. The freshmen class included almost 80 new Congressmen, and the Republicans brought the Contract with America, and promises of scaling back an overreaching, overtaxing federal leviathan. There was even talk of abolishing the federal departments of Education, Energy, Health and Human Services (HHS) and Housing and Urban Development (HUD.) A veritable devolution revolution and restoration of the Tenth Amendment seemed to be looming just over the horizon. In reality, the long tradition of constitutional compromise, lack of principle, back-scratching and vote-swapping pragmatism was upheld, and most of them sold out. The Republicans today call for trippling the Education Department budget and more federal meddling in education, the Tenth Amendment notwithstanding. The Republicans didn't undo big government, they aided and abetted in it. They proved that their chief concern was holding onto power zealously. Amidst the Democrat scare tactics following the so called government shutdown of 1995, the Republicans went on full retreat. Here in this book, Scarborough offers a sweeping indictment of financial extravagence, so called \\"pork barrel\\" spending, government largesse, and how the Republicans and not just the Democrats are the willing accomplices in the federal fiscal farce.     Today, we have nearly half-trillion dollar budget deficits and a seven-trillion dollar national debt. We our mortgaging our children's future through fiscal irresponsibility and legal plunder and the GOP is as big a culprit as the Democrats. While Republicans promise piecemeal tax cuts, they won't deliver any spending cuts. They continue to play the legal plunder bid for votes. And it seems the present administration is embracing the Keynesian logic of government deficit spending and largesse to jump-start a beleaguered economy. The stagflation of the 1970s proved the failure of such economic logic, but economics and history isn't a big concern of the GOP party faithful. This book is insightful, but deals primarily with fiscal and budgetary issues and doesn't touch on constitutional issues quite as much as I would have liked.	2004-11-18
US	51650080	R2JLUC0AKGU12M	083081339X	269600369	Evangelism & the Sovereignty of God	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Salvation is All of God	This book examines the relationship between God's sovereignty and man's role as evangelist, the proclaimer of the Good News of salvation through Jesus Christ. Evangelical success for the evangelist is simply in being faithful to proclaiming the Gospel of Jesus Christ. The efficacy of a new believer's salvation lies not in the ability of the evangelist to wring out a confession of faith through rhetorical persuassion, but rather in the supernatural regenerating work of the Holy Spirit that illuminates their depraved minds to the truth of the Gospel. The Gospel call is a twofold call to believe and repent. J.I. Packer gives remarkable insight and clarity into the sovereignty of God in salvation, and reminds the Christian reader that our true success in evangelism lies in God's blessing and his supernatural work. Our job as evangelist, is to be ambassador of Christ, and proclaim the Good News. Indeed, every evangelical proclamation is a success for the evangelist faithful to God's Word since he is after all heeding the commmand to proclaim the Gospel. Our modus operandi for witnessing is proclaimed in 2 Timothy 2:24-25, and evangelism can be an on-going endeavor, as we are reminded to be \\"patient, apt to teach, in humility correcting those who are in opposition if God perhaps will grant them repentance so that they may know the truth...\\" Soli Deo Gloria!	2004-11-15
US	51650080	R2C6PPXAQ03RJC	0840791437	765907027	Our Unmet Needs	Books	5	7	7	N	N	God has the answers and God will provide!	\\"And my God shall supply all your need according to His riches in glory by Christ Jesus,\\" notes Philippians 4:19. The crux of Stanley's message is that God knows us and all of our unmet needs. Charles Stanley offers moral support to Christians and Scriptural exhortation. Jehovah Jireh provides all our needs, and when we walk in faith, he brings us to where he wants us. \\"And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are the called according to His purpose,\\" declares the Apostle Paul in Romans 8:28. It doesn't mean life goes peachy for Christian and is devoid of trials and afflictions, but the all things are working together for our good, our sanctification, and our final redemption when we're raised in glory. For those of faith, God is our sustainer, and he will make adequate provision for us when we turn to Him and acknowledge our dependency on Him to supply our unmet needs. Stanley exhorts reader to trust in God, seek fruits of patience and love. Charles Stanley has assembled another great inspirational and insightful pick-me-up for Christians on their spiritual journey.	2004-11-13
US	51650080	R34ECYLSPO20FP	0882643266	306050173	Tortured for Christ	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A tearjerker for those of faith... simply compelling	This book recollects the horrors that Christians endured behind the Iron Curtain in communist Romania. Richard Wurmbrand was a Jewish convert and recalls that their Soviet liberators who rescued them from Nazism merely supplanted one evil for another. He points to his persecution, and recalls that endured by his wife and son. The tortures were graphic and manifest the depravity of man. I was awestruck by the child-like faith and the lack of bitterness by Christians at their tormentors. They were starved, beaten, persecuted, and imprisoned. What is more, they would not repudiate their faith. I was particularly moved by a young boy who refused to recant Christ. Under the penalty of his own torture, the boy asked that his father not give in to cowardice by repudiating his faith that he might protect his son. The poor child echoed his Christian patriotism in avowing, \\"For Christ and Fatherland.\\" Thereafter, he was promptly pummeled to death for perceived disrespect to his communist torturers. However, many former communist butchers had the hardness of their hearts broken and they were moved by the testimony of those that they persecuted. The stories are captivating. Wurmbrand stood up for the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ.     The Soviet Union and Warsaw Pact nations covered up their militant state-sponsored atheism by infiltrating and controlling a few token `tolerated' churches. Wurmbrand like other patriots, such as Russian nationalist Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, emerged to tell the real story of the anti-Christ communist system. For occasional abuses in the United States, like municipalities harassing churches with zoning ordinances and attacks on an expression of faith by individuals in public places, we don't realize how good we have it in contrast to Red China today or Romania during the Cold War. My life has been a cakewalk in contrast to the sufferings endured by the persecuted church. This book is humbling, compelling, and emotional for those of faith.     \\"We are pressured in every way but not crushed; we are perplexed but not in despair; we are persecuted but not abandoned; we are struck down but not destroyed.\\" -2 Corinthians 4:8-9	2004-10-26
US	51650080	R1M54I65W2PE8O	1882926315	29635219	Vital Remnants: America's Founding and the Western Tradition	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Examining and Recapturing those Vital Remnants...	~Vital Remnants: America's Founding and the Western Tradition~ is vital for serious study of American constitutionalism and the American founding. Conspicuous in its conservatism, prudent in its effort to ascertain original intent without crude reductionism, this book edited by Gary L. Gregg, Jr. offers a remarkable breadth of insight on the American republic, constitutional history, and the founding era. The interplay of Christianity, the Anglo-American tradition, the Enlightenment, and the classical tradition in the American founding are all discussed with great clarity, objectivity, and historical elucidation. John Adams observed that public virtue was requisite for preservation of the public liberty, and such virtue could only be in the hearts of a religious people. Thus, virtue too is discussed and its relation to the American polity.    The first essay \\"Is America an Experiment?\\" by Wilfred McClay points to the uniqueness of America has having not happened by accident, fate, but by calm deliberation its form of government was conspicuously tailored-with the idea of preserving the Anglo-American common law tradition and securing the independence of the many colonial republics by Union. As Alexander Hamilton declares, it \\"seemed to have been reserved to the people of this country, by their conduct and example, to decide the important question, whether societies of men are really capable or not of establishing good government from reflection and choice, or whether they are forever destined to depend for their political constitutions on accident and force.\\" The later part of the essay brings to light the conservative nature of the 1787 \\"experiment\\" vis--vis the modern liberal efforts to make society anew through conscious social evolution and the deified Hegelian demigod of progress.    The second essay \\"Founders as Farmers\\" by Bruce Thorton offers keen insight into the georgic agrarian tradition and its profound influence on the founding fathers and their generation. Hearkening back to ancient Rome at its impetus, and the writings of Virgil, Cicero, and Cato the Censor, Thorton captures how the small freehold farmer acted to secure liberty, independence and political stability. The yeoman farmer was seen as one of the bastions of public liberty and economic self-sufficiency. Every early American President was a countryman. The need for the continual primacy of agriculture was hinted by many from Jefferson to Taylor. Contrary to partisan obfuscation, they were not as quixotic as the ancient Spartans to ban commerce or trade and restrict foreign influence, but merely stressed the primacy of agriculture. Jefferson suggested commerce remain the \\"handmaid\\" of farming. Federalists too recognized the vitality of the farmer and small freeholders to public liberty. It was conspicuously viewed as the economic pillar upon which to firmly anchor a free republic upon. Virtue too was cultivated, by the practice of a farmer, who methodically plans, toils, and cultivates the bountiful harvest of his land. The leisure of agrarian life-more so for the aristocrats-afforded time for contemplation, reflection on politics and religion.     The next essay \\"Open Shudders to the Past\\" by classicist E. Christian Kopff captures the profound influence of the classics and ancient history amongst the American founding fathers. Many were accomplished orators, familiar with Latin and Greek, and well versed in annals of antiquity. In referring to the convulsions, class warfare, turmoil, and revolutions that befall Greece as disgusting, Alexander Hamilton made it clear that their desire was not to emulate the Romans or Greeks, but rather to learn the lessons of history which they provided. The moral example of Cincinattus who was called to save Rome as dictator is illustrated. He was the farmer-citizen-soldier called upon save a besieged Rome. Upon accomplishing his appointed objective, he promptly returned power back to the Senate upon accomplishing his goal and returned to his farm inspiring many for his sense of duty and honor. On the other hand, Julius Caesar grabbed power, clinched it and crushed the republic. Parallels have been drawn between Washington and Cincinattus. Washington could have very well become an American monarch, but would have known of it. Other explorations in this essay look into the necessity of a balance and separation of powers and makes light of the many lessons gleaned from classical history.    Perhaps one of my favorite essays by Bruce Frohnen entitled, \\"Revolutions Not Made, But Prevented: 1776, 1688, and the Triumph of the Old Whigs\\" is an examination of the conservative and prudent sobriety of the generation that through off the yolk of British tyranny to restore their local and state rights and the Rights of the Englishmen. They in sharp contrast to their French counterparts across the Atlantic were not really revolutionaries at all, as they did not seek to destroy civilization and make society anew or foment a cultural revolution. The book opens with examination of the alleged hypocrisy of Edmund Burke for supporting American independence while simultaneously condemning the French Revolution for its austere violence and social radicalism. In this essay, the author hearkens back to the developments in British history and the Rights of the Englishmen. He captures the essence between the struggles of Parliament, the King, the Gentry Nobles, Cities with Local Autonomy, and the Peasants. He sketches a background to the so called Glorious Revolution of 1688 where William of Orange raised and army toppling the centralizing and corrupt usurpations of King James II. There are many stark similarities between the revolution of 1688 and 1776. Frohnen contends both embodied the Old Whig principles of subsidiarity, local control, protection for the Rights of the Englishmen. The Old Whigs sought to maintain, restore and preserve political structures emphasizing local rule, inherited rights, anda minimal delegated authority to central political institutions. They sought to harness the centrifugal forces of corporate liberty in setting institutions in equilibrium with one another. Prior to 1776, the colonial magistrates petitioned the king for address of grievances again and again. Their grievances went largely unanswered. Finally, they boldly declared the causes compelling them to separation and exercised the ultimate exercise of interposition, namely political secession. \\"American founder's were conservative revolutionaries,\\" as Gregg notes, \\"not radical social thinkers, and it was in the spirit of preservation that they worked their revolution.\\"    The closing essay, \\"The Therapeutic Threat to Human Liberty: Pragmatism vs. Conservatism on America and the West Today,\\" is a solid critique of the spirit of pragmatism, scientism and sterile utilitarianism which has become the new American creed, where the constitution is a flexible living document tailored to suit those conspicuously aimed at altering America by conscious social evolution. Pragmatists like Richard Rorty are scolded.    Other essays include \\"Natural Law, the Constitution, and Theory and Practice of Judicial Review,\\" \\"Christianity, the Common Law, and the Constitution\\" and \\"Liberty and License: The American Founding and the Western Conception of Freedom\\" by Robert P. George, James R. Stoner, Jr. and Barry Alan Shain respectively. Recovering the vital remnants seems vitally requisite for a recovery of the republic of our forefathers, genuine popular rule within our representative republic, and maintenance of an independent citizenry. All things considered, this a most worthwhile endeavor and not worth passing up by any serious student of American constitutional history. This book is a must read!    \\"Long before our time the customs of our ancestors molded admirable men, in turn these men upheld the ways and institutions of their forebears. Our age, however, inherited the Republic as if it weresome beautiful painting of bygone ages, its colors already fading through great antiquity; and not only has our time neglected to freshen the colors of the picture, but we have failed to preserve its forms and outlines.\\" -Marcus Tullus Cicero	2004-10-21
US	51650080	R1VJJSXM3F66HS	0865972729	617981753	Webster-Hayne Debate on the Nature of the Union, The	Books	5	13	17	N	N	The Nature of the Union: Compact or Consolidated Leviathan?	~The Webster-Hayne Debate on the Nature of the Union~ essentially is the \\"nationalist interpretation\\" vis-&agrave;-vis the \\"compact interpretation\\" of the Union. Historian Forest McDonald avows, \\"The Constitution would be a compact not among sovereign states, as was the 1781 Articles of Confederation, nor a Lockean compact between ruler and ruled, nor even a compact of the whole people among themselves. It would be a compact among peoples of different political societies, in their capacities as peoples of the several states. Such a compact was undreamed of in political philosophy.\\" After the 1787 Convention, there remained an unresolved tension nonetheless in the body politic over the nature of the Union, the powers of the general government and the residual powers belonging to the States. This played itself out in the Federalist Party tango with the Jeffersonian Republicans beginning in the 1790s. Though, the Federalist Party was divided against itself and eventually imploded. This tension further played itself out in these very debates, the ensuing sectional crisis and the War Between the States in the 1860s. This Liberty Fund book features speech and writing selections from Senator Daniel Webster of Massachusetts and his younger colleague Senator Robert Hayne of South Carolina. Webster expounds upon the nationalist theory while Hayne stands for the compact theory. These debates are pivotal to a more in-depth study of constitutional history and law. Moreover, they are absolutely integral to understanding the nature of the Union as it was and as it is. The Webster-Hayne Debates have been neglected in recent years, and what little emerges from these deliberations comes from nationalist partisan scholarship. This biased scholarship reveres Webster's nationalist theory as sacrosanct dogma while altogether dispensing with the compelling arguments for the compact view espoused by Hayne. Hayne's interpretation held resounding support during his time. In the early nineteenth century, the compact view of the Union held predominance not just amongst Jeffersonian Republicans, and the Tertium Quids, but also New England Federalists.<br /><br />I have no qualms of saying that what Daniel Webster espouses about the Union is essentially a myth and that I consider the compact interpretation espoused by Robert Hayne as having ethical, moral, historical and constitutional high ground. Historian Forest McDonald has delienated the Lincoln-Webster nationalist interpretation as \\"untenable.\\" Webster acts as though, the Union preceded the States, and it was formed by the people and sovereignty was always residual in the people in aggregate. Even nationalist Supreme Court Justice John Marshall declared, \\"No political dreamer was ever wild enough to think of breaking down the lines which separate the States and of compounding the American people into one common mass.\\" The marked schism in constitutional hermeneutics played out in the Webster-Hayne debates was but a foreshadowing of the conflict that came about in the 1860s.  The Union was tethered back together in 1865 not by the \\"consent of the governed\\" but by the bayonet, and a dissimilar polity removed from that one framed in 1787 emerged. After Reconstruction, the central government forever took ascendancy over the States. Today, sadly the nationalist interpretation has reached fruition in the post-New Deal era. The crescendo of power amongst central authority has produced a leviathan central government which sets dictates upon the states. The states more or less exist as mere corporations and subdivisions amenable to the central authority. Today, there is scarcely an object or power of regulation (education, health, safety, welfare) that is not touched upon by federal legislation.  Wheneever state policy is not to the liking of the central authority, that authority threatens punitive action against the states such as withholding federal funds or promoting a Congressional statute overriding theState on a matter. Thus, the Tenth Amendment is turned on its nose and is sometimes little more than hollow platitude on a piece of antiquated parchment.<br /><br />All things considered, I think the merits of Hayne's arguments far exceed that Webster, especially in light of history of the early Republic. Read these debates and see for yourself.<br /><br />* * * * * * * * * * *<br />Selections from the late Senator Robert Hayne:<br />\\"It cannot be doubted, and is not denied, that before the formation of the constitution, each State was an independent sovereignty, possessing all the rights and powers appertaining to independent nations; nor can it be denied that, after the constitution formed, they remained equally sovereign and independent, as to all powers, not expressly delegated to the Federal Government.\\"<br /><br />\\"The very idea of a division of power by compact, is destroyed by a right claimed and exercised by either to be the exclusive interpreter of the instrument. Power is not divided, where one of the parties can arbitrarily determine its limits. A compact between two, with a right reserved to one, to expound the instrument according to his own pleasure, is not compact at all, but an absolute surrender of the whole subject matter to the arbitrary discretion of the party who is constituted the judge...\\"<br /><br />\\"...[W]e are met by the argument that the Constitution was not formed by the States, in their sovereign capacity, but by the People, and it is therefore inferred that the Federal Government, being created by all the People, must be supreme, and though it is not contended that the Constitution may be rightfully violated, yet it is insisted that the from the decisions of the Federal Government there can be no appeal. It is obvious that this argument rests on the idea of State inferiority. Considering the Federal Government as one whole, and the States merely as component parts, it follows, of course, that the former is as much superior to the latter, as the whole is to the parts which it is composed. Instead of deriving their power by delegation from the States to the Union, this scheme seems to imply that individual States derive their power from the United States. Instead of deriving power by delegation from the States to the Union, this scheme seems to imply their power from the United States, just as petty corporations may exercise so much power, and no more, as their may enjoy permit them to enjoy.\\"<br /><br />\\"I deny that the Constitution was framed by the People in the sense in which that word is used on the other side, and insist that it was framed by the States acting in their sovereign capacity... it is clear they ['We the People...'] can only relate to the People as citizens of the several states, because the Federal Government was not then in existence.\\"<br /><br />\\"To show, that, in entering into this compact, the States acted in their sovereign capacity, and not merely as parts of one great community, what can be more conclusive than historical fact, that, when every State had consented to it except one, she was not held to be bound. A majority of the people in any State bound that State, but nine-tenths of all the people in any State bound that State, but nine-tenths of all the people of the United States could not bind the people of Rhode Island, until Rhode Island, as a State, consented to the compact. It cannot be denied, that, at the time the Constitution was framed, the people of the United States were members of regularly organized governments, citizens of independent States; and unless, these State governments had been dissolved, it was impossible that the people could have entered into any compact but as citizens of these States.\\"<br /><br />Selections from the late Senator Daniel Webster:<br />\\"Consolidation!-that perpetual cry, both of terror and delusion-consolidation! Sir, when gentleman speak of the effects of a common fund, belonging to all the States, as having a tendency to consolidation, what do they mean? Do they mean, or can they mean, any thing more than the Union of the States will be strengthened, by whatever continues or furnishes inducements to the people of the States to hold together? If they mean merely this, then, no doubt, the public lands as well as every thing else in which we have a common interest, tends to consolidation; and to this species of consolidation ever true American ought to be attached; it is neither more nor less than strengthening the Union itself. This is the sense in which the framers of the constitution use the word consolidation; and in which sense I adopt and cherish it.\\"<br /><br />\\"When they said I believe; fully and sincerely believe, that the Union of the States is essential to the prosperity and safety of the States. I am a Unionist, and in this sense a National Republican. I would strengthen the ties that hold us together. Far, indeed, in my wishes, very far distant be the day, when our associated and fraternal stripes shall severed asunder, and when that happy constellation under which we have risen to so much renown, shall be broken up, and be seen sinking, star after star, into obscurity and night!\\". Instead of deriving their power by delegation from the States to the Union, this scheme seems to imply that individual States derive their power from the United States. Instead of deriving power by delegation from the States to the Union, this scheme seems to imply their power from the United States, just as petty corporations may exercise so much power, and no more, as their may enjoy permit them to enjoy.\\"      \\"I deny that the Constitution was framed by the People in the sense in which that word is used on the other side, and insist that it was framed by the States acting in their sovereign capacity... it is clear they ['We the People...'] can only relate to the People as citizens of the several states, because the Federal Government was not then in existence.\\"      \\"To show, that, in entering into this compact, the States acted in their sovereign capacity, and not merely as parts of one great community, what can be more conclusive than historical fact, that, when every State had consented to it except one, she was not held to be bound. A majority of the people in any State bound that State, but nine-tenths of all the people in any State bound that State, but nine-tenths of all the people of the United States could not bind the people of Rhode Island, until Rhode Island, as a State, consented to the compact. It cannot be denied, that, at the time the Constitution was framed, the people of the United States were members of regularly organized governments, citizens of independent States; and unless, these State governments had been dissolved, it was impossible that the people could have entered into any compact but as citizens of these States.\\"     Selections from the late Senator Daniel Webster:  \\"Consolidation!-that perpetual cry, both of terror and delusion-consolidation! Sir, when gentleman speak of the effects of a common fund, belonging to all the States, as having a tendency to consolidation, what do they mean? Do they mean, or can they mean, any thing more than the Union of the States will be strengthened, by whatever continues or furnishes inducements to the people of the States to hold together? If they mean merely this, then, no doubt, the public lands as well as every thing else in which we have a common interest, tends to consolidation; and to this species of consolidation ever true American ought to be attached; it is neither more nor less than strengthening the Union itself. This is the sense in which the framers of the constitution use the word consolidation; and in which sense I adopt and cherish it.\\"    \\"When they said I believe; fully and sincerely believe, that the Union of the States is essential to the prosperity and safety of the States. I am a Unionist, and in this sense a National Republican. I would strengthen the ties that hold us together. Far, indeed, in my wishes, very far distant be the day, when our associated and fraternal stripes shall severed asunder, and when that happy constellation under which we have risen to so much renown, shall be broken up, and be seen sinking, star after star, into obscurity and night!\\"	2004-10-12
US	51650080	R334B86IS69P7Q	0826215483	951275057	Calhoun and Popular Rule: The Political Theory of the Disquisition and Discourse	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Calhoun, Concurrent Majority and the Search for Popular Rule	~Calhoun and Popular Rule: The Political Theory of the Disquisition and Discourse~ outlines the political theory of the esteemed southern statesmen John Caldwell Calhoun who is often lauded as the last American Founding Father. H. Lee. Cheek, Jr., the author, presents an astute exposition of Calhoun's political thought. Cheek does so by coupling objectivity, cogent reasoning with an enthusiastic appreciation for the contributions of Calhoun to political science. He presents Calhoun as a versatile, bold, and original thinker, but not aloof from the American political tradition wrought out in the formative years of the Republic. Calhoun is a complex figure in his own right, though somewhat influenced by the liberal and Enlightenment tradition, he stil rejected the liberal philosophy of natural rights and the Enlightenment's positive view of human nature. Cheek explicates Calhoun's concurrent majority with remarkable clarity and insight. Calhoun's statesmanship is neglected these days, and shoddy partisan scholarship glibly dismisses him as a firebrand voice for sectional interests. Calhoun attached a fervent willingness to defend the American republic, to stave off dissolution of the federal regime, and eschew consolidation as a means of strengthening the republic.  <br /> <br />This book is a well thought-out exposition of Calhoun's political theory. Even some of Calhoun's thorough biographers such as John Nevin among others have obfuscated Calhoun's political theory at times, and muddied the waters by incorrectly elaborating upon it or simply explaining it in reductionist terms. As result of their neglect at more careful study, Calhoun's contribution to political science is oft neglected and apt to be misunderstood. Cheek's effort is a poignant, well-written, and cogent elucidation on the Disquisition, the Discourse, and the principle of the concurrent majority. He clears up many matters, and soundly expounds Calhoun's political thought, chiefly that of the Disquisition and Discourse. <br /> <br />Calhoun was a member of that Democrat Party, yet he was opposed to the nascent demagoguery of Andrew Jackson and he rightly recognized the \\"limitations of the emerging plebiscitarian spirit within American democracy.\\"  He insisted only delineating himself as a \\"Republican\\" throughout his career. Calhoun was a most sober democrat, precisely because he recognized the limitations of democracy. For Calhoun, democracy works best by being dispersed (or localized) and is most tyrannical when it is centralized. Calhoun was focused on the search for a proper understanding of popular rule. <br /> <br />The first chapter, `Calhoun and the American Political Tradition,' sketches a background of the American political tradition from its inception. Cheek presents Calhoun as a heir and expositor of the South Atlantic republican worldview. This view, succinctly stated, was shaded by \\"moral and philosophical overtones,\\" it affirmed the principle of subsidiarity, it saw the necessity of virtue amongst the citizenry of the States (inculcated by religion and fear of God), and it recognized the need to protect a \\"decentralized, group-oriented society.\\" Following in the footsteps of his father Patrick Calhoun (who like Patrick Henry) was skeptical of the work wrought out in the 1787 Convention, John in turn was not doctrinaire to the dogmas espoused by Madison and Hamilton in the Federalist. Calhoun nonetheless admired the federal polity, but sought to solidify popular rule through concurrent majorities. \\"Calhoun's political theory should be understood as a reflective journey,\\" notes Cheek, \\"towards recovering genuine popular rule amidst the national crises that occurred during his career as a statesmen and political philosopher.\\" <br /> <br />The second chapter, `Calhoun's Early Republicanism,' elaborates upon his mode of political reflection and the  In this chapter, Cheek weaves together history interspersed with Calhoun's reflections, political views,and defense of the principles of 1798 in the interposition statements in the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions. In prcis, Cheek paints a background to Calhoun's mode of political thought through the lens of the \\"South Atlantic republican experience.\\" Calhoun's embrace of interposition as a counterweight to federal usurpation encapsulated and shaped Calhoun's political thought. Calhoun like many other statesmen from Robert Hayne to Thomas Jefferson found the notion that federal government would be the exclusive interpreter of whether it was operating within the scope of its powers to be anathema. Giving the States, no recourse against federal usurpation was the very embodiment of tyranny. Calhoun's republicanism compelled him to affirm dual sovereignty, and more resoundingly affirm the reserved rights of the states which he perceived were being encroached upon in his time. Calhoun saw the Constitution as a compact between the States and the general Government. Embracing the idea of corporate liberty, Calhoun recognized that not only the institutions within the general government, but also the States acted as a check against usurpations by the central authority.  <br /> <br />The third and fourth chapters, `The Political Theory of the Disquisition' and `The Political Theory of the Discourse' are trenchant analyses of Calhoun's Disquisition and Discourse respectively. Calhoun rejects natural rights, and scoffs at the self-evident egalitarian proposition in the Declaration, and embraced the doctrine of original sin in shaping his political thought. Yet Calhoun recognized authority existed to preserve liberty and he made a careful effort at structuring the interrelationship between the two in his writings. He was an organic political thinker weaving together communal, societal and government interests in his thought. Because of the sinful impulse of man, government was needed, and because of that same sinful impulse, government was to be restrained. \\"Intended to protect and preserve society,\\" government has \\"a strong tendency to disorder and abuse of its power, as all experiences and almost every page of history will testify,\\" argued Calhoun. Mere adherence to popular rule did not suffice to restrain government, and popular rule could give a locus of legitimacy to the most tyrannical oppression. Calhoun recognized this and affirmed his belief in constitutionalism. Calhoun takes issue with Madison and his notions of an \\"extended republic\\" acting to alleviate the intensity of factional strife merely because of the geographic scope of the nation. The idea that the extended republic would stifle majoritarian tyranny was absurd on its face. For Calhoun this was tripe and wishful thinking to think that friction amongst groups would be alleviated merely by enlarging the body politic. \\"Calhoun confronted a political situation in which the twin attributes of expansion and independence from group interests had failed in practice,\\" notes Cheek. \\"If extending the regime had proved fruitless at reducing conflict and preventing the coalescing of forces, Calhoun envisioned the solution for America as a return to the original instrumentation of diffused authority.\\" Calhoun recognized that without a continuous conscious effort at affirming a vision of federalism (with states' rights and the concurrent majority as its fulcrum) would in the end prove futile in staving off factional friction, and the undesirable road of either consolidation or disunion. <br /> <br />The final chapter, `Restoring the Concurrent Republic,' is an astute capsule of Calhoun's political theory and his labors to recover the concurrent majority within the American political tradition. Calhoun's contributions have been ignored, and reductionists who demean his reform efforts as nothing more than a proposal allowing for a dual presidency. The concurrent majority allows for genuine popular rule within a constitutional framework. The search for the concurrent majority in popular rule represents an endeavor of restoration and preservation since it embraces mutual negatives and institutional checks and balances while guarding against the tyranny of King Numbers or majoritarian tyranny. \\"Instead of yearning to dicatate all decision making by controlling government,\\" notes Cheek, \\"the concurrent majority recognizes and incorporates the natural divisions of authority into a coherent whole through a mode of deliberation premised upon compromise. With the numerical majority (and more absolutist forms governing), the only path to power is found in the domination of the government... [T]he concurrent majority relies upon compromise among the constitutive parts of the republic to ameliorate tension and promote cooperation.\\" The concurrent majority protects the minority interests, thwarts the all-or-nothing game at the national level and stifles coalescing of factions to the detriment of another faction. The concurrent majority represents a constraint against majoritarian tyranny, and acts to produce a peaceful consensus making a polity more workable with less friction amongst competiting interests. Cheek presents Calhoun's affirmation of \\"a South Atlantic republican inheritance\\" in a positive light, as well as his efforts to \\"return to the original diffusion of political authority and authentic popular rule.\\"  <br /> <br />With much bravado and clarity, H. Lee Cheek, Jr. has made a most remarkable contribution to political science; he very soundly elucidates Calhoun's political theory with an incisive analysis and insight. <br /> <br />* * * * * * * * * * * <br />Quotations from the late Senator John C. Calhoun: <br />\\"To talk of liberty, without a Constitution, or, which is the same thing, an organic or fundamental system of legislation, by which the will of the Government may be effectually coerced or restrained, is to utter ideas without meaning; and to suppose an ultimate power, on the part of Government, to interpret the Constitution as it pleases, and to resort to force, to execute its interpretation, against the authority which created the Constitution itself, is to be guilty of the greatest political absurdity that can be imagined.\\" <br /> <br />\\"[I]n governments of the concurrent majority... mere numbers have not the absolute control; and the wealthy and intelligent being identified in interest with the poor and ignorant of their respective portions or interests of the community, become their leaders and protectors. And hence, as the latter would have neither hope nor inducement to rally the former in order to obtain the control, the right of suffrage, under such a government, may be safely enlarged to the extent stated without incurring the hazard to which enlargement would expose governments of the numerical majority.\\" <br /> <br />\\"But, as there can be no constitution without the negative power, and no negative power without the concurrent majority - it follows, necessarily, that where the numerical majority has the sole control of the government, there can be no constitution; as constitution implies limitation or restriction - and, of course, is inconsistent with the idea of sole or exclusive power. And hence, the numerical, unmixed with the concurrent majority, necessarily forms, in all cases, absolute government.\\" <br /> <br />\\"On the contrary, the government of the concurrent majority, where the organism is perfect, excludes the possibility of oppression, by giving to each interest, or portion, or order - where there are established classes - the means of protecting itself, by its negative, against all measures calculated to advance the peculiar interests of others at its expense. Its effect, then, is, to cause the different interests, portions, or orders - as the case lay be - to desist from attempting to adopt any measure calculated to promote the prosperity of one, or more, by sacrificing that of others; and thus to force them to unite in such measures only as would promote the prosperity of all, as the only means to prevent the suspension of the action of the government - and, thereby, to avoid anarchy, the greatest of all evils. It is by means of such authorized and effectual resistance, that oppression is prevented, and the necessity of resorting to force superseded, in governments of the concurrent majority - and, hence, compromise, instead of force, becomes their conservative principle.\\" <br /> <br />\\"The concurrent majority, on the other hand, tends to unite the most opposite and conflicting interests, and to blend the whole in one common attachment to the country. By giving to each interest, or portion, the power of self-protection, all strife and struggle between them for ascendency, is prevented; and, thereby, not only every feeling calculated to weaken the attachment to the whole is suppressed, but the individual and the social feelings are made to unite in one common devotion to country. Each sees and feels that it can best promote its own prosperity by conciliating the goodwill, and promoting the prosperity of the others. And hence, there will be diffused throughout the whole community kind feelings between its different portions; and, instead of antipathy, a rivalry amongst them to promote the interests of each other... Under the combined influence of these causes, the interests of each would be merged in the common interests of the whole; and thus, the community would become a unit, by becoming the common centre of attachment of all its parts. And hence, instead of faction, strife, and struggle for party ascendency, there would be patriotism, nationality, harmony, and a struggle only for supremacy in promoting the common good of the whole.\\" <br /> <br />\\"The concurrent majority, then, is better suited to enlarge and secure the bounds of liberty, because it is better suited to prevent government from passing beyond its proper limits, and to restrict it to its primary end - the protection of the community.\\"	2004-10-12
US	51650080	RMMWEPD7AQAGU	1576830578	512384259	Righteous Sinners: The Believer's Struggle With Faith, Grace, and Works	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Righteous Sinners... The Lordship Salvation View Affirmed...	That's what we are, that is those of faith, are \\"righteous sinners\\" not \\"perfect pretenders.\\" We're righteous only because the righteousness of Christ Jesus has been imputed to our account and faith is the instrument of our justification. This book by Ron Julian addresses the believer's struggle with faith, grace and works. Julian tackles any number of issues and presents a Gospel message and reminds that there is no sin to great to be forgiven. Julian tries to settle an oft disputed question in light of Scripture: what is the relation between faith, grace and works? Legalist Arminians puport salvation is in man's own hands and he determines his faith. Adherents of Sovereign Grace like John Piper or Lordship Salvation View in dispensationalists circles like John MacArthur purport there is nothing more and nothing less than the free, unmerited grace of God that justifies the believer, and the fruit of saving faith is good works, that is those good works that the father has appointed that we should walk in them.    What must one do to be saved some ask? \\"Salvation comes to the one who has faith, but faith involves much more the mere doctrinal beliefs,\\" notes Julian. \\"Faith is an active trust in God, a dynamic commitment of the heart and the will. True believers totally surrender to God, yielding their lives to Him in obedience.\\" Julian goes on to point out, that true faith must be lived out, and it inevitably leads to good works. Indeed, faith without works is dead. Julian helps the believer reconcile faith and its relation to works, without falling into legalism (works-righteousness) or antinomianism (lawlessness). All those of faith are eternally secure in Christ Jesus.     The continious exhortation throughout the Scriptures is for the believer not to let sin have dominion over his/her life. Invoking the power of the Holy Spirit, and setting our sights on the promises of God, and the free and unmerited grace of God lets us experience the forgiveness that comes through faith in Jesus Christ.    The Apostle Paul's exhortation was to \\"...work out your own salvation with fear and trembling; for it is God who works in you both to will and to do for His good pleasure.\\" Phillipians 2:12-13     Romans 4:6 \\"Just as David also describes the blessedness of the man to whom God imputes righteousness apart from works: 7 Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, And whose sins are covered; 8 Blessed is the man to whom the LORD shall not impute sin.\\"    God's grace is boundless, but Julian makes it clear that a true, perserving saving faith inevitably yields fruits of obedience and true repentant believers will become overwhelmed with guilt and forsake their sins when they walk astray.	2004-10-06
US	51650080	R249AOVB158IL5	1882926374	768530666	Who Owns America: A New Declaration of Independence	Books	4	13	16	N	N	For Decentralized Politics and Private Property!	~Who Owns America: A New Declaration of Independence~ are a group of agrarians and conservative thinkers with a sobering culture critique where they advance the case for decentralised politics and widespread distribution of private property! They extoled the need for vibrant regionalism within the the nation-state. They recognized that one must surely be an Ohioan, Texan or Virginian as they are an American. This book was published in 1936 as the Great Depression became more depressing. This is the classic sequel to I'll Take My Stand, but the contributors frame their critique in national terms rather than southern sectional terms. It is an anthology that is a selection of articles and essays from various agrarian and conservative writers, mostly from the South and Midwest. Moreover, the contributing authors essentially represented a cross-section of thinkers from southern conservatives to Midwestern agrarians. They have much common ground, but some differences as well. There major focus in the book was a critique of America's culture and increasingly centralized economic-political structure. They offered a prescriptive formula for a renewed America landscape and body politic. This was to be characterized by widespread ownership of private property, small-scale enterprises coupled with preservation of the American entrepreneurial spirit and a decentralised political system amenable to the people at the state and local level.<br /><br />Allen Tate's 'Notes on Liberty and Property' in my estimation is the keystone of this book. Tate's essay concentrates on the correlation between political freedom and the widespread diffusion of freehold private property amongst the citizenry. Andrew Lytle's 'The Small Farm Secures the State' is also a meaningful contribution. Donald Davidson's ideas on regionalism were rather unlikable to me given that he favors establishing regional political blocs at the expense of state sovereignty. It seems evident that making politics more decentralised would not entail annihilating state sovereignty. The shared ideal embodied in the text of this New Declaration of Independence was that Americans should be independent not only of big government but its attendant companion big business. The agrarians are not anti-capitalist per say or demagogues; but as Anglo-Catholic distributist G.K. Chesterton quipped that \\"the problem with capitalism is that there are not enough capitalists.\\" The contributors together reasoned that the increasing corporate collectivism and growth of collectively-managed property is tantamount to the destruction of private property, and will inevitably yield to the attendant perils that come with socialism. The authors buoy the case that there is a strong correlation between political freedom and a widespread diffusion of political power and economic resources. They were, by and large, critical of an interventionist imperial foreign policy and tended to favor trust-busting to uproot monopolistic cartels. They offered a bleak prognosis if the continuing concentration of power and capital goes unabated. The agrarian writers seem to be enmeshed with ideas of trade protectionism which would be anathema to their conservative forefathers John Taylor of Caroline and John Calhoun. While against the New Deal, a few contributors tinge on advocacy of too much government meddling in economy. I say this not to malign the spirit of the book again recollecting that they advocate political decentralization and a market economy.<br /><br />Mary Fisher's essay entitled 'The Emancipation of Woman' is eerily prophetic of bad sociological trends in early twentieth century that have reached fruition today. Fisher addresses how women ostensibly seeking \\"emancipation\\" from motherhood have been pushed into a dehumanizing existence in the workplace. Today, the woman has to work to pay family's share of income tax. Erstwhile children have come to be viewed by many as a liability, a burden and something entirely undesirable. Feminism is perhaps the greatest misnomer of all time, it ran amok where it disavowed the femininity of women in favor of androgyny. The trauma of the Second World War and the Sexual Revolution exacerbated the attack on traditional womanhood and the family. Nature and tradition set the ordinary course of a woman in day-to-day life as being involved with family in her distinct role as nurturer, as the life-giver, and as a mother. Fisher's essay is alarmist, but a needed critique as the so called Emancipated Women is becoming an atomized cog in economic machine and alienated as her natural state of being is attacked by an increasingly materialistic society. Today, being a homemaker carries a stigma of being a pariah.<br /><br />The final essay features English Anglo-Catholic distributivist Hilaire Belloc who offers a critique of 'Modern Man.'<br /><br />All things considered, this book is a spirited critique of crass Yankee capitalism run amok; big business and big government go hand in hand. It offers so sound, prudent social and culture criticism with Southern and Midwestern sobriety. The ideas pressed forward in this book generally have a largely Jeffersonian flavor, a trenchant Tocqueville style of analysis and Calhoun's clarity of communicating ideas.<br /><br />* * * * * * * * * * *<br /><br />There is an aura of populist conservatism with a distinctively Southern and Midwestern sense of sobriety, in such statements as:<br /><br />\\"The diversity of regions rather enriches the national life than impoverishes it, and their mere existence as regions cannot be said to constitute a problem. Rather in their differences they are a national advantage, offering not only the charm of variety but the interplay of points of view that ought to give flexibility and wisdom... The regions should be free to cultivate their own particular genius and to find their happiness..., in the pursuits to which their people are best adapted, the several regions supplementing andaiding each other, in national comity, under a well-balanced economy.\\" -Donald Davidson<br /><br />\\"...The diffusion of an energetic population over our vast territory is an object of far greater importance to the national growth and prosperity than the proceeds of the sale of the land to the highest bidder in the open market...\\" -Andrew Johnson<br /><br />\\"Corporate mergers and all devices of economic and legal control, usurious interest with wholesale foreclosure, unsound manipulation of the nation's volume of money by banker, broker, and politician-all these have made of us a nation of dispossessed people.\\" -John C. Rawe<br /><br />\\"The joint-stock corporation, when overgrown, is the enemy of private property in the same sense communism is. The collectivist state is the logical development of the giant corporate ownership, and, if it comes, it will signalize the triumph of Big Business.\\" -Richard B. Ransom<br /><br />\\"The elected candidate, in the President's chair and in Congress, was supposed to represent the people and to foster the general welfare. In practice, they represented the will of the Northeast and fostered the welfare of the Northeast...\\" -Donald Davidson<br /><br />\\"The Northeast has manipulated the Federal mechanism so as to encourage, as a cardinal objective of national policy, a gross overemphasis on industrialism and speculative finance, with a corresponding injury and neglect of agriculture and small business, to say nothing of the general injury resulting to manners, morals, and human happiness.\\" -Donald Davidson<br /><br />If you find this book interesting than I would recommend reading economic critiques and treatises by Wilhelm Roepke, G.K. Chesteron and Hillare Belloc.	2004-09-24
US	51650080	R2IME6JW08PHMK	0870001183	522064210	The Wisdom of Conservatism	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Brilliant four-volume anthology of conservative thought	~The Wisdom of Conservatism~ is a sweeping four-volume anthology of conservative thought through the ages first published by Arlington House in 1970s. I have an old, but pristine hardbound set with the slipcase, and I have to admit, besides Russell Kirk's books, it is the crown jewel of my conservative book collection. The author balances out the book with conservatives from various camps. Conservative luminaries throughout the ages receive a showing in this anthology from Reactionaries to Monarchists to Roman Catholic Counterrevolutionaries to Anti-Modernists to English Whigs to Agrarians to High Federalists to Southern Republicans. Witonski is not inclusive in eschewing classic liberals, since their influence on mainstream modern conservatives is profound, so he features economists Adam Smith and Ludwig von Mises for example. Though, I found the inclusion of Nietzsche among several others to be rather questionable in an anthology dealing with conservatism. Whatever faults may be found in the text selections of this volume can be forgiven because of the breadth and scope of the anthology. I confess to never reading it cover to cover as it several thousand pages, but the value of this set as a reference for any student of conservatism is insurmountable.	2004-09-23
US	51650080	R3DH14I2V1QG9	0700606572	173741137	Founding Fathers: Brief Lives of the Framers of the United States Constitution Second Edition, Revised	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	The Founding Fathers: Framers of the Constitution	~Founding Fathers: Brief Lives of the Framers of the United States Constitution~ is a perennial classic and an excellent introduction to understanding the history of the early Republic and the men who framed the Constitution. The founding fathers featured herein, that is the framers of the 1787 Constitution, came from all walks of life. \\"One was a shoemaker, surveyor, lawyer, jurist, lay theologian, and statesmen. Two became president, one vice-president. Over half were experienced in the legal profession. The majority were well off and, for their time, well educated.\\" They came together in Philadelphia and produced the most profound document in the history of the United States.    M.E. Bradford amplifies the length and scope of content of each mini-biography based in proportion to the respective founding father's contribution and influence. Some biographies are obviously limited in scope due to lack of available materials. The brevity of this book does not hamper its quality, as it is an excellent starting point for researching the founding fathers and the ones who are lesser known today, but monumental in their influence during the time such as Deleware statesmen John Dickinson, New Hampshires' John Langdon, New York's Gouverneur Morris and Virginia's George Wythe. The objectivity is to be commended, and Bradford gives the reader a good feel for the positions of each of the men and usually explains whether they were centralizing nationalists, moderate Federalists, or decentralizing Anti-Federalists. Each biography is annotated with a bibliographical list of source materials, which may be useful for probing deeper into each founding father's background.  This book is well-written and offers great capsule biographies of the most influential men who helped frame the Constitution and shape it in the course of debates.    As for the other reviewer grumbling about Mel Bradford's making the American founding to be based on Christianity, I do not know where he gets that from. I think his criticism is unwarranted and I would point out that there is a flip side to the erroneousness of portraying ALL the founding fathers as devout Christians, which is his erroneous statement that \\"most were deists and freemasons.\\" It is not however erroneous to say most were Christians, however popular the token deists among them were. Bradford did little more than sketch backgrounds on the founders; it just happens that Madison studied at seminary, Hamilton founded the short-lived Christian Constitutional Society, William Few was a devout Methodist, etc. That a few founders were deists, Jefferson foremost, possibly Franklin does not make the founders all secularists. Consider that the vitality of the Christian religion to the founding father's times compelled even the deist politicians to generally speak in Christian platitudes, and embrace public prayer. They typically speak in the rhetoric of Christian moralism, hence Jefferson's insistence on his being a \\"true Christian\\" and his extol of the morality of Christ. Franklin was no different. In the end, I am not a discerner of hearts, but I do know a great many of the founders made bold affirmations of their Christian faith.	2004-09-23
US	51650080	R2FRIVUF95SYLG	0842314989	156621327	The Holiness of God (Revision)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Brilliant! A Modern Christian Classic!	~The Holiness of God~ expounds upon the overaching nature of God: his holiness. Are you fascinated by God's holiness or are you terrified? From his holiness emanates his love, but also his justice. God's justice is sometimes one of the most difficult things for many people to fathom. R.C. Sproul inquires into God's holiness with this articulate and trenchant book. Chapters such as the 'Insanity of Martin Luther' is book to itself. This chapter captures the spiritual struggles of the pious Luther who reckoned his good works profited nothing, and nothing save the unmerited grace of God could save him. I can identify with Luther's struggles and going through the \\"I am not that bad Gospel...\\" which is not the true Gospel that saves souls, salvation is all of grace through faith. The just shall live by faith. I admit to rereading this chapter several times. 'Be Holy for I am Holy' is a clarion call to righteousness on the part of the believer. Temptations may abound and the closer we grow in our relationship with God, the more apt Satan is to tempt us and lead us astray. Sproul offers prudent Scriptural exortation and a call to emulate Jesus Christ. A closing chapter entitled God in the Hands of an Angry Sinner, (no doubt a spin on Jonathan Edwards' famous sermon,) explores the righteous indignation of God reserved for sinners, and the depraved sinner's contempt for a holy God. He intertwines this with a message about the cleansing work of the Holy Spirit. In sum, this book is a profound exploration of the holiness of God from a Reformed Christian and Biblical perspective. I recommend reading and rereading this great Christian classic. This is highly recommended for Christians whereever they are on their Christian walk; it has something for every believer.	2004-09-18
US	51650080	R23E04OS4D7UI3	0760735301	619040557	Goering	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Profiling Goering, the Nazi Air Force and Economics Czar	~Goering~ is an overall objective biography of the so called Iron Man, Hermann Goering. Goering is famous for his ominous statement: \\"I have no conscience, Adolf Hitler is my conscience.\\" Pragmatic, arrogant, callous, and eager to manifest his unflinching loyalty to Hitler, Goering secured a considerable power base in Hitler's Third Reich.<br /><br />Goering was a powerful figurehead who controlled a portfolio of coveted positions in the Nazi state, and was an instrumental player in the organization of Germany's Wehrwirtschaft (i.e. war economy.) He served as the head of the Reichswerke A.G.-a state holding company-which consisted largely of nationalized industries, properties expropriated from Jews, as well as assets captured in Lorraine, Luxembourg, Czechoslovakia, Austria, Romania, and all the way to the Donetz basin of the Ukraine. This enterprise was tasked with supplanting the primacy of the I.G. Farben conglomerate and became the fulcrum of the Nazi war machine providing steel, iron, coal, munitions and oil. Reichswerke A.G. was to facilitate the phased shifting of the Reich industrial base into Eurasia following Operation Barbarossa as the Germans ratcheted production up for the war effort. These plans never fully materialized for various reasons. First, the Nazis alienated the conquered Slavs. Second, the Nazis recklessly pillaged and effectively destroyed many productive assets in the east. Third, Goering ineffectually diverted resources and manipulated the economy incessantly.<br /><br />Richard Overy highlights some of the more naïve economic views of Goering rooted in his affinity for socialist ideas. Goering avowed, in a Nazi economic system, \\"Profits cannot be considered... Calculations cannot be made as to cost. \\" Such naïve economic thinking characterized a man obsessed with bringing the German economy under his total control. Goering made sporadic interventions in the economy as if the law of supply and demand could somehow be negated or supplanted with the force of the Nazi will to power. Not surprisingly, the results Goering desired were seldom found. Shortages of supplies were commonplace and production seldom met expectations.<br /><br />The ambitious Goering zealously guarded his perceived prerogatives and was apt to look for more private industry to gobble up into his inefficient socialist conglomerate. In his role as head of the German Luftwaffe (i.e., Air Force), Goering zealously pushed for an inefficient reallocation of material resources to his pet projects while diverting them from private industry and other military branches.<br /><br />He may have won Hitler's respect initially, because of their shared obsession with wunder-waffens (i.e. wonder weapons.) Despite the engineering ingenuity and pioneering ambition of Germany in aviation and military technologies, the sporadic state interventions in the economy made German technological advantage superfluous. Both Hitler and Goering were obsessed with constant perfection of designs as well as getting new designs online. As a result, assembly lines had to be constantly retooled and components redesigned. For all these reasons, the idea of mass production became rather comical with the incessant changes ordered by Goering. Obsessed with perfecting tank and aircraft designs throughout the war, Germany made only piecemeal gains in productivity while the Western Allies were busy churning out far more armaments and equipment. The potency of Allied arms and munitions was cognizable in the sheer quantity they produced. These were volleyed at the crumbling Reich with full force.<br /><br />The Ruhr capitalists expressed frustrations at the sporadic interventions of the state. The radicalism of Goering was tempered by others in power since he would have preferred more nationalization and state control over the economy. At the behest of Speer and Hitler, the power base of Goering was finally curtailed after 1943 as concessions were made to industry and 'party moderates' in vain hopes of turning things around for the German war economy. It seems that Goering's bungling, anti-capitalist tendencies, and unintentional economic sabotage coupled with the Allied bombing campaign kept the German war machine from ever reaching its full productive potential. Overy captures this reality quite well.<br /><br />In the end, the so-called Thousand-year Reich died in its infancy. History and divine providence, which was so often was invoked by Hitler to legitimize his assent to power, proved to be against him in actuality.y moderates' in vain hopes of turning things around for the German war economy. It seems that Goering's bungling, anti-capitalist tendencies, and unintentional economic sabotage coupled with the Allied bombing campaign kept the German war machine from ever reaching its full productive potential. Overy captures this reality quite well.<br /><br />In the end, the so-called Thousand-year Reich died in its infancy. History and divine providence, which was so often was invoked by Hitler to legitimize his assent to power, proved to be against him in actuality.	2004-09-06
US	51650080	R20PLTQ3TTOIE7	0684815001	763680226	The Cost of Discipleship	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Costly grace must be sought after again and again!	~The Cost of Discipleship~ was profoundly influential on me as I pondered the nature of the call to discipleship. It was to be read and reread. No book save this book and, of course, the Bible has every elicited my tears. Bonhoeffer's dichotomy between \\"costly grace\\" and \\"cheap grace\\" is astounding as he poetically declares: \\"Costly grace is the gospel which might be sought again and again, the gift which must be asked for, the door at which a man must knock. Such grace is costly because it calls us to follow, and it is grace because it calls us to follow Jesus Christ. It costly, because it cost a man his life, and it is grace, because it gives us the only true life.\\"<br /><br />This book expounds upon the costliness and nature of true discipleship. What does it mean to be a disciple of Jesus Christ? It means you must follow him in obedience. One of the fruits of a persevering saving faith is obedience. Bonhoeffer does not attempt to buttress the believer in consolation with feel good theology, but reminds the believer that a servant is not above his master (Mt. 15:24); Christ suffered and so shall we, all those of faith will have to endure are allotted share of suffering and hardship. \\"You therefore must endure hardship as a good soldier of Jesus Christ\\" (2 Tim 2:3).<br /><br />Bonhoeffer makes manifest the costliness of grace and likewise the high price of true discipleship, which is why many shriek at such demands. Some naysayers pick apart Bonhoeffer's theology for various reasons. Accusations abound that he is a legalist abound and others defame him as having unconsciously sought out martyrdom. Bonhoeffer was not perfect, but he was a pious, sincere and devout follower of Jesus Christ. His character and willingness to put his life on the line for the truth is commendable.<br /><br />I will only say that his life and work was exemplary, as was his principled opposition to the anti-Christian Nazi regime. His theology and life work has to be understood within thehistorical context of his resistance to Hitler ana Nazis. He recognized that the Christian disciple must confront the world, he can neither hide from it nor be conformed to it. The Christian cannot fall into the monastic trap and seek shelter in \\"his closet\\" under the pretense of piety and otherworldliness, because he must confront the reality that \\"his closet\\" is part of the world. Being \\"salt and light to the world,\\" when the world was shrouded in darkness may very well bring martyrdom for the believer, but it was the cost of discipleship. For this reason, Bonhoeffer confronted Hitler and the despotic Nazi Regime. In his other work \\"Ethics,\\" he declares that the state that steps on the Christian mission negates itself, though he struggled himself over the nature of resistance and civil disobedience. Bonhoeffer was executed as one of the Flossenberg Martyrs (after being loosely implicated in the Abwehr conspiracy to assassinate Hitler) just days before the Allies liberated his camp. It really helps to reflect upon the world Bonhoeffer was in while studying this book.<br /><br />Ultimately, Bonhoeffer points the reader to Christ as our exemplar who we should strive earnestly to emulate Christ. Bonhoeffer was adamant that obedience necessarily follows a geniune preserving saving faith and is requisite for true discipleship. God gives us faith, but it is the sinner who must be believe. We have to walk forward and take that initial step of obedience to make effectual our faith, and make our calling sure. Sooner or later, a true faith will inevitably yield in obedience, otherwise it is not a geniune faith. Thus, geniune discipleship is not possible. God gives us the grace and he sustains us, as the author and finisher of our faith.	2004-09-04
US	51650080	R2W42R11S8BVBW	1590522737	33900693	Debating Calvinism: Five Points, Two Views	Books	3	9	19	N	N	Man's Quest for God or God's Quest for Man?	Calvinism is an appellation often ascribed to the doctrines esteeming the sovereign grace of God in man's redemption.  It is not the invention of Calvin, but the historic Biblical theology of Augustine, the Apostle Paul and our Lord Jesus Christ. I do not take my affirmation of Calvinism very lightly (Jas. 3:1). Sovereign grace rightly understood should bring humility, as no one deserves grace.    Dave Hunt is so profoundly disingenuous in his debating style while White makes some erudite, sound, Scriptural affirmations for the doctrines of grace. Hunt tries to appeal to petty emotional arguments and seeks to wring out confusion in the mind of laity. I don't know why he feels the compulsion to resell this book myself given his showing in this so-called debate. Hunt demeans meaningful debate with the shotgun approach. He unleashes a cornucopia of logical fallacies by way of ad hominem attacks, red herrings, straw mans, and poisoning the well. I think White given the word limit strictures of debate, does an excellent job at tackling the objections posed by Hunt to Calvinism. Dave Hunt's diversionary character assassination against John Calvin deserves more repudiation than White had time for. Among Hunt's more far-fetched assertions are: the idea that John Calvin himself is snared by Roman Catholic dogmas; and that Lutherans and Calvinists had droves of Protestants burned for rejecting infant baptism. White approaches the debate with composure and a calmly reasoned affirmation of Scriptural truths. Trailing away from meaningful debate on soteriology, Hunt erroneously purports that Calvin believes that baptismal regeneration is vitally requisite for salvation by misquoting and misreading him. This is a complete libel and White never got around to refuting extraneous red herrings. Calvin's Institutes clearly refutes a belief that baptism is requisite for salvation: \\"But there is a danger that he who is sick may be deprived of the gift of regeneration if he decease without baptism! By no means. Our children, before they are born, God declares that he adopts for his own when he promises that he will be a God to us, and to our seed after us.\\"  The very fact that James White whom Hunt is debating is a Reformed Baptist and thus a proponent of believer's baptism should suffice to filet this contrived red herring. Calvin was a learned theologian who confessed Christ as Lord and Savior and espoused justification by faith alone. Yet he is condemned as a hell-bound apostate by Dave Hunt. The Arminian divine John Wesley never demeaned Calvin with such slander, but called him, \\"A very learned and pious man...\\" and Wesley spoke highly of Calvin's Bible commentaries.      In addressing total depravity and its concomitant doctrine of total inability, Hunt fails to delineate between exhortations for the faithful to seek God and Scriptural affirmations of the natural unregenerate man being dead in sins and trespasses and thus unable to repent (Rom. 3:10-18; Eph. 2:1,5; Col. 2:13; 1 Cor. 2:14.) Faith does not precede regeneration (John 6:43-44), and is not wrought out in the heart of sinful man (Rom. 9:16). Hunt dubiously contends faith precedes the regenerating work of the Holy Spirit, and essentially exalts the will of man, and makes faith out to be man's gift to God.  Hunt's dubious Scriptural readings and erroneous contentions are numerous, but James R. White does a sound job in bringing many of them to the truth. White stays focused on the issue at hand, which is soteriology-the doctrine of salvation according to Jesus Christ. Hunt gets incensed at the Scriptural logic of a Calvinist and gets more and more visceral in his responses and towards the end of the book his proclivity for contriving caricatures of Calvinism is almost comical. I actually encourage ironclad Arminians, so called moderate Calvinists, and those soteriological agnostics standing on the fence of the sovereignty debate to read this book. Man-exalting synergism collapses beneath the weight of its unscriptural contradictions.      Debating Calvinism deserves at best three-stars since this is not really a debate-but a mouse trying to spar with a lion. Hunt tries to use the brute force of invective argument while eschewing logic, and ends up-well defeated.  Read it yourself and don't take my word for it.  An honest inquiry into soteriology requires a systematic, logical, and exegetical reading of the Bible, particularly the systematic Pauline theology of the epistle to the Romans.  I might recommend reading any of the following: _The Doctrines of Grace_ by Boice and Ryken; _The Five Points of Calvinism_ by Steele and Thomas; R.C. Sproul's anthology _Willing to Believe: The Controversy over Free Will_; and Martin Luther's _The Bondage of the Will_, as a backdrop to reading this so called debate. I embrace what is often called the doctrines of grace, the tenets of Calvinism, or Augustinian-Pauline monergism because its credence is found in the Word of God and the teachings of my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Sovereign grace rightly understood should humble a person. Soli Deo Gloria! All the glory to God!	2004-08-27
US	51650080	R227PY8JL5RYI2	0801025869	722666983	Christ-Centered Preaching: Redeeming the Expository Sermon	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Christ-Centered Preaching!	The title says it all: Christ-Centered preaching!  We live in the age of attention-deficit congregations who are incredibly short sighted and want things in sound bites and to be readily digestible.  On the other hand, there are still congregations that hunger for preachers who deliver more substantive sermons. Lost in this culture even amongst many conservative Christian congregations is the value of the expository sermon, which really delves into the Word of God. Chapell makes a case for the value of the expository sermon. Moreover he shows how to effectively deliver expository sermons.  He shows how we can learn from the great expositors of the past.  He addresses the need for Christ-centered preaching, effective delivery, and he soundly explains components of exposition and offers techniques for effective illustration.  He offers some poignant advice on delivery, dress and style, which is important to connecting with the congregation.  His exhortation is gentle and understanding, but he reminds the pastor not to lose sight of the Cross or fall into familiar traps of trying to humor the congregation as a constant comedian least the efficacy of one's Gospel message get lost in a sea of worldliness and pride.  Chapell really hits the point home that Christ-centered preaching is vitally requisite to the efficacy and power of a speaker's Gospel message. He devotes whole chapters to developing redemptive sermons and taking a redemptive approach to preaching.  Looking at notes is not off limits, but eye contact is vital to exhibiting knowledge and preparation and ultimately in effectively communicating the message to a congregation. Finally, he reminds the evangelist or pastor that the efficacy of one's preaching ultimately lies in much contemplation-seeking God through prayer and supplication-and a humble commitment to the Word of God.  If we boast in anything we should boast in the Cross!    This book was extraordinarily helpful in preparation for my first sermon this past June and I chose a more substantive expository sermon than a simple topical sermon to kick off my debut, and this book was most helpful in preparation, structuring and planing. Soli Deo Gloria!	2004-08-27
US	51650080	R3M1VVHLZUPF1U	0895267187	757803907	The Theme Is Freedom: Religion, Politics, and the American Tradition	Books	4	9	10	N	N	The theme is freedom... The title says it all!	From the teachings of Jesus Christ and Saint Augustine, to the Magna Carta and Blackstone, and still onward to the Puritans and the American founding fathers, M. Stanton Evans traces the ascendancy of liberty in the West. Evans gives particular attention to the roots of Western liberty, which arose in the fertile soil of Christianity; added focus is given to the Anglo-American common law tradition. This is a prudent piece of scholarship that eschews the Enlightenment conception of history while explaining how religion-specifically the Christian faith-has helped fortify corporate liberty in the West and particularly in Anglo-American civilization. Liberty owes as much to the institutions that progressively developed  as it does to political philosophy.     The chapter entitled the Age of Despots explores the collectivist and totalitarian movements whose progenitors Robbspierre and Rousseau helped to inspire countless revolutionaries. Evans makes light of the anti-Christian character of twentieth-century totalitarian ideologies, which are essentially millenarian religions. Hitler stated that Nazis hoped \\"to eradicate Christianity in Germany root and branch.\\" Mussolini signaled a disdain for objective truth in declaring: \\"If relativism signifies contempt for fixed categories and men who claim to be bearers of an external objective truth, then there is nothing more relativistic than fascistic attitudes and activity...\\" For fascists and collectivists, truth was subjective and they were apt to affirm their will to power; they sought to tailor their own collectivist ideology, propel it into the limelight, and espouse it as the Gospel truth. Fascists embraced the sentiments of Thrysamachus in Plato's Republic who defined justice as the will of the strongest. Simply put, might makes right! Evans asks a pressing question: in the absence or refutation of religious and ethical absolutes, who will define the truth and who will define right and wrong? The American Republic must refocus her sight on the first principles of her framers least she succumb to the totalitarian trap and morph into a totalist Enlightenment polity.    If Men were Angels is an exploration into human nature; this chapter drawing from a Madisonian proverb affirms the necessity of government owing itself to original sin and fallen man. A corollary to a mistrust of human nature is a mistrust of power, which is precisely why the framers of the Constitution sought to fortify checks and balances and decentralize power in the United States.    In contrast to pro-Enlightenment interpretations of history, which exalt the French Revolution and mystical belief in progress, Evans finds the ascendancy of Christianity as end to the absolutism of the pagan regimes.  While the state exists to restrain evil (i.e. force and fraud), the state itself was to be retrained, because a mistrust of human nature and concentrated power. The Calvinist belief in man's depravity played no small role in the development of the Anglo-American polity. The proteges of Jean-Jacques Rousseau do not acknowledge sin, but rather characterize society as sick and men as being perfectable if freed from the shackles of sick society. M. Stanton Evans does a remarkable job at explaining the debt that Americans owe to Christianity in the political developments that made the West free. He offers prescriptive wisdom against Enlightenment ideologies promising absolute freedom, which usually results in an absolutist state. Likewise, he eschews the Byzantine symbiosis of church and state, in favor of Protestant conceptions of sphere sovereignty, which acknowledges the God ordained sovereignty of the ecclesiastical and civil governments in their respective sphere. All things considered, this book is an impressive contribution to political science by capturing the interplay of religion, politics and tradition in the last few centuries.    A special thanks to my former political science professor Dr. S.A. Samson for introducing me to Evans' book.	2004-08-22
US	51650080	R1B9CFH4JV8A20	0674825284	730742862	The Southern Tradition : The Achievement and Limitations of an American Conservatism	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Analyzing the Southern Tradition	~The Southern Tradition~ by Eugene Genovese is a captivating, objective examination of southern conservatism and the southern tradition. The first chapter, The Lineaments of Southern Tradition, examines southern culture and conservatism in the Old South. The American South's currents such as traditional Protestant Christianity and its affinity for localism and agrarianism are all discussed in this first chapter. Genovese points out that southern conservatives accept \\"hierarchy and stratification as natural, necessary and proper,\\" at the same time resisting a tendency toward sponsorship of a self-aggrandizing elite or artificial aristocracy. The interplay of political and constitutional principles with the southern way of life is examined in the second chapter. It may be the boast of southerners that the first avowed conservatives in the U.S. were southern democrats. Southern luminaries like John Taylor of Caroline and John C. Calhoun stood opposed to Jacobin egalitarian leveling, and the materialism wrought out in the Enlightenment and Industrial Revolution. For nineteenth century southerners, their constitutional order allowed for the peaceful coexistence of antithetical systems of property. Genovese disavows the contentions by those who dismiss states' rights as nothing more than an instrument for preservation of slavery. He recognizes that the states' rights constitutional hermeneutic is by no means peculiar to the south, as states' rights doctrine arguably had its expression intensely felt in the northern section in the early nineteenth century. Likewise, the Hartford Convention and Pennsylvanian William Rawle's commentary affirming the constitutional right of secession demonstrates regional particularism; and goes a long way to vindicate this last point. Genovese elaborates on John C. Calhoun's theorizing about \\"concurrent majorities\\" coupled with his reform-minded activism which hoped to ameliorate the crisis of the federal system. Through constitutional reform, Calhoun endeavored to essentially make the polity more federal, and thus stave off an impending sectional crisis but striving for sectional equilibrium. The essence of federalism has always been a diffusion of powers and subsidiarity. Among Calhoun's proposals emanating from his doctrine of concurrent majorities was the idea of a sectional triple presidency. With an absolute veto for each section which would effectively bar a numerical majority from oppressing and expropriating a minority.<br /><br />Genovese rightly rejects simplistic reductionism perpetrated by biased political theorists and sociologists who itinerate the dubious notion that southern conservatives are in fact quasi-fascists. Genovese further notes this to be a \\"charge by those who know nothing about southern conservatism or fascism.  Those who study both honestly will be surprised by how little fascism and southern conservatism share.\\" The Fascist State is repugnant to parochial minded southerners. Likewise, provincial southerners with their penchant for localism are repulsed by centralism and overbearing statism.<br /><br />Genovese further probes into southern conservatism's manifestations in the twentieth century discernible in the agrarian thought of Herb Agar, John Ransom, Allen Tate and Richard Weaver.  These figures all seemed to recognize that corporate centralization and big government go hand in and hand.  The agrarian critique of crass Yankee capitalism scolded it for monopolistic tendencies and its de facto destruction of private property while supplanting it with an irresponsible system of managerial and bureaucratically managed collective property just as socialism does.  Such a collectivist economic system has a tendency to run roughshod over the individual and is destructive of traditional culture and institutions. Southern conservatives were increasingly cognizant of finance capitalism's capacity to degenerate into socialism. Big government and big business went hand in hand, and it acted as a solvent dissolving social bonds and smothering an organic, traditional civil society.<br /><br />All the things considered, Genovese does an excellent job capturing the history, politics, culture and lineaments of the Southern Tradition. His objectivity for having come from the Marxist Left is to be commended.  Having endured Marxist CRITs from college and their \\"trashing\\" tactics, I find it commendable and honest scholarship. Genovese arguably explains southern conservatism perhaps with more clarity, sympathy and honesty than a southern conservative could ever do. I understand, however, that more recently Genovese and his wife have found the Christian faith and drifted towards the culturally conservative Right.solvent dissolving social bonds and smothering an organic, traditional civil society.     All the things considered, Genovese does an excellent job capturing the history, politics, culture and lineaments of the Southern Tradition. His objectivity for having come from the Marxist Left is to be commended.  Having endured Marxist CRITs from college and their \\"trashing\\" tactics, I find it commendable and honest scholarship. Genovese arguably explains southern conservatism perhaps with more clarity, sympathy and honesty than a southern conservative could ever do. I understand, however, that more recently Genovese and his wife have found the Christian faith and drifted towards the culturally conservative Right.	2004-08-22
US	51650080	R2ZLOOYRAVJOR0	1882926196	175322621	Freedom and Virtue: The Conservative/ Libertarian Debate	Books	4	16	21	N	N	Freedom and Virtue: Antagonistic poles or vital compliments?	~Freedom and Virtue: The Conservative and Libertarian Debate~ is an interesting anthology of articles chronicling the similarities and dissimilarities between conservatives and libertarians. The debate observably establishes the common ground that libertarians and conservatives share: first, both parties are agreed that the greatest threat to liberty is the increasing centralization and concentration of powers amongst governmental authority; second, both generally recognize the vitality of free-markets and the benefits of minimal government intervention in the economy; third, both maintain a common opposition to modern statist liberalism for a myriad of reasons. Georgetown political science guru George Carey has assembled an anthology of writings from various voices: liberals such M.M. Auerbach; libertarians like Murray Rothbard and Tibor Machen; secular humanists like Paul Kurtz; and conservatives like John East, Russell Kirk, M. Stanton Evans and Richard Weaver.     A proponent of fusionism, Frank Meyer has long maintained that libertarianism and conservatism exist together in a broad theoretical unity, and a synthesis should be strived for. I used to fall for this incongruous idea of fusionism, but now I see the unfeasibility of it all, and as such I have grown past the intemperate libertarianism of my youth. It has to be ironic, but I got this book a few years ago, hoping to buoy the case for fusionist libertarian-conservative ideology in my mind. However, I gradually came to be perceptive of the unworkable contradictions within such a fanciful amalgamated ideology. I have since eschewed libertarianism altogether and ideology as well, and fell squarely into the classical conservative camp. As Russell Kirk says, anyone who thinks seriously about politics gradually falls away from libertarianism and \\"conservatism is the negation of ideology.\\" Still I have a great deal of respect for many right-libertarian thinkers (usually those of the old school deemed paleolibertarian.) I have a great deal of common ground with them. But what results from a libertarian-conservative debate are serious questions (and sometimes answers) about political philosophy. Is there a transcendent moral order? What should be the role of tradition, reason, and religion in civil society? When does liberty become license? What of the elusive search for absolute freedom? Finally, are \\"freedom\\" and \\"virtue\\" antagonistic polar opposites or vital compliments? How is the balancing act between freedom and virtue to be achieved in a healthy, vibrant civil society?    How do freedom and virtue fit into the ordered liberty equation?  I think freedom and virtue are complementary and not necessarily antithetical. One most avoid the elusive search for absolute freedom. Many libertarian ideologues are typically nave heirs of the Enlightenment-Romanticist in a search for absolute freedom. History demonstrates societies that strive for absolute freedom often do so with the effect of trampling virtue under foot and destroying freedom in the process. Conservatism recognizes the vitality of freedom and virtue in the public and private arena. Libertarianism declares virtue to be a private affair of the heart and rejects coercion towards virtue. Some radical libertarians even grovvel about the stigmatism of church, family and community. Conservatism sees that freedom and virtue are requisite and not necessarily antagonist towards one another; libertarianism that neglects virtue is often scarcely discernable from libertinism.    Altogether, this is a fairly good read and recommended for students of political science, newcomers to libertarianism, and right-wing devotees in general. For the reviewer, who stated \\"libertarians are not conservatives,\\" I'd like to second his motion, and add that interloper neoconservatives are not conservatives either.	2004-08-22
US	51650080	RTRR8KP1QXMJY	0700606521	990032265	The American Presidency: An Intellectual History	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The American Presidency: Then and Now	The American Presidency is like no other institution in the world and as evolved precariously from its heyday in 1787. Forrest McDonald focuses on the first few years of the Presidency. he then correlates modern developments and the expansion of the executive state coupled with the rise of the so called fourth branch of government, the bureaucracy. McDonald is somewhat of a conservative, but often withholds judgment on , though refrains from the enthusiastic lust for power and centralization that liberal historians like Arthur Schlesinger seem to have. (I give this book a 3.5/5.0 rating.) I recommend purchasing this book in tandem with _Reassessing the Presidency : The Rise of the Executive State and the Decline of Freedom_ from the Ludwig von Mises Institute.	2004-08-06
US	51650080	R2URQQM9RRI8WQ	0913966592	836254141	E Pluribus Unum	Books	4	14	14	N	N	E Pluribus Unum	~E Pluribus Unum: The Formation of the American Republic, 1776-1790~ is an astute and intriguing look at the formative years of the American Republic. The United States was taking shape from the days of the Confederation to the 1787 Constitutional Convention and many pivotal debates emerged as to the nature of the burgeoning federal republic. Particular emphasis is placed also on the Washington Administration and . McDonald offers an informative and intriguing scholarship, which is a solid contribution to constitutional history and early American history.	2004-08-06
US	51650080	R2N8TREBJXR4G6	0700603115	919252714	Novus Ordo Seclorum: The Intellectual Origins of the Constitution	Books	4	37	37	N	N	The debates, politics and legacy of the 1787 Constitution	~Novus Ordo Seclorum~ by conservative historian Forrest McDonald is an astute and poignant political history of the fledgling American republic.  The framers of the Constitution sought introduce a new concept into the political discourse, namely federalism. They, of course, were all nationalist in the sense that they hoped to strengthen and stabilize a general government.  The 1787 Convention hardly started from scratch and was built on the polity existing under the Articles of Confederation. McDonald perceptively captures efforts to balance out the powers amongst the republican institutions through corporate liberty.  Each institution jealously guarded their prerogatives as Madison and Jefferson was essentially the prop for the federal regime created in 1787.    The first introductory chapter boldly proclaims that framers had a problem following their independence: that problem succinctly stated was the nature and form of their republic was to take. The framers were unanimous in the belief that the proper end of government was protecting life, liberty, and property. Prior to 1787, they had yet to resolve the scope and role to be played by the general government and it was agreed that that government under the Confederation was scarcely functioning effectively as it was too weak. The second chapter entitled The Rights of the Englishman brilliantly gives a history of the Anglo-American common law tradition that was so cherished by the colonials. It was their go to fortify, uphold and secure the cherished Rights of the Englishman for citizens of the American polity. The third chapter entitled Systems of Political Theory is an exploration of political debates common amongst the framers. They were well schooled in the classics from Cicero to Lycurgus. Likewise, they were familiar with Montesquieu, but opted for prudence and temperance in their statecraft. They eschewed the Jacobin radicalism being fomented across the Atlantic in France by Rousseau and Robespierre. The fourth chapter entitled Systems of Political Economy deals with explorations into political economy. The body of thought delineated as Political economy is simply those \\"ideas about the policies governments should or should not pursue regarding property relations to promote the general welfare.\\" The bulk of this chapter deals with the influence of Adam Smith on the colonials and the cunning Hamiltonian economic proposals like protective tariffs, bounties for manufacturers and the Bank of the United States. McDonald captures the political struggles that ensued in Washington's cabinet as Randolph and Jefferson fought Hamilton tooth and nail to thwart his machinations. The remaining three chapters essentially chronicle the political developments, debates and theorizing during the Confederation and especially during those pivotal moments in 1787 when the Constitution was being framed.    The breadth and scope of this book is amazing. McDonald gives a great deal of insight on the framing of the American Republic. He does so with a remarkable deal of conservative sobriety and is not afraid to convey his admiration for the American experiment in republican self-government. McDonald gives enormous insight into the debates on jurisprudence, history, political philosophy, and political economy that took place in the pivotal years during and after the 1787 Convention.	2004-08-03
US	51650080	R13WBR9R1C17YD	0700612270	454280208	States' Rights and the Union: Imperium in Imperio, 1776-1876 (American Political Thought)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Did States Rights' die with Antebellum America?	~States' Rights and the Union: Imperium in Imperio, 1776-1876~ is perhaps one of the best new contributions to the study of American constitutional history in recent years. Most history books portray the nature of sovereignty within the American body politic as being well-settled after 1787. In their mind, it was settled that the U.S. was to have a strong central government. This is reductionism at its best and history at its worst. The essence of a true federal regime has always been a diffusion of powers and a dual sovereignty, not a centralized unitary polity like France or the United Kingdom. The framers of the Constitution deliberatedly contemplated a general government with expressly enumerated powers. The contest over States Rights and the Union was almost inevitable, as the American polity was framed with an ingrained contradiction of dual sovereignty that was anathema to European conceptions of sovereignty. McDonald's book is fittingly subtitled Imperium in Imperio, which literally delineates supreme sovereignty within supreme sovereignty. Likewise, the Calvinist notion of man's innate depravity was more readily acceptable to framers who were weary and mistrustful of concentrated power. It was the springboard for fortifying Anglo-American traditions of bicameral legislatures, common law protections for the individual and adding more checks and balances. The framers rejected whimsical views about man's good nature espoused by Rousseau. \\"Free government is founded in jealousy,\\" avowed Thomas Jefferson, \\"and not in confidence. It is jealousy and not confidence which prescribes limited constitutions, to bind down those whom we are obliged to trust with power...\\" Much to the chagrin of modern liberals, the crux of the American polity was the nature of its dual sovereignty coupled with its corporate liberty (i.e. institutions jealously guarding their prerogatives,) not its popular representation.      Forrest McDonald chronicles the political and constitutional history of the American polity in its first century from the time of the Constitutional Convention where the states in convention assented to the formation of the Union. All of the pivotal debates about the nature of the Union are addressed. McDonald pays special attention to contests that reached a groundswell during the administrations of Jefferson and Monroe over federal appropriations for internal improvements. The ensuing Congressional fights over the Bank of the United States, internal improvements, and tariffs would deepen the vexing question over the nature of sovereignty. James Madison brilliantly asserted that the Constitution gives the general government explicit \\"enumerated objects\\" of power, and Article I, Section 8 empowers Congress to finance \\"post roads,\\" though no mention is made for subsidies to railroads or building canals. The original secessionist movement was lead by New England Federalists ironically, and McDonald chronicles the saga of the Hartford Convention. The High Federalists opposed the Louisiana Purchase, because it expanded the states and they argued that while the territory could be expanded that no new states should be added. Jefferson had serious reservations about the legality of the purchase in the absence of Constitutional Amendment, but found the deal too good to pass up. The controversies leading up to the War Between the States and southern secession are discussed. Moreover, the actions of the Supreme Court in shaping the debate over States' Rights and the Union are the subject of constant discussion for McDonald. Ultimately, the Clay-Webster-Lincoln conception of the Union would work to steadily supplant the conservative Madison-Calhoun-Hayne conception of the Union. The dictatorial Lincoln regime and Reconstruction regime could only serve to set the precedent for the New Deal exploits of FDR.     States' Rights is considered an archaic concept now and is often demeaned as a mere buzzword for segregationists. Nonetheless states' rights remains a monumental pillar of the American Republic that needs to be rediscovered and not forgotten. Madison's point is simple, the federal government has expressed powers and limitations, and if there are no limitations on what that government may do than the Tenth Amendment is turned on its nose and a relic of the horse and buggy era. Modern neoconservatives seem only to argue for a renewed commitment to federalism by shifting some powers back to the states on utilitarian grounds of efficiency rather than on constitutional grounds. If you like McDonald, I think books such as _Reassessing the Presidency: The Rise of the Executive State and the Decline of Freedom_ and _The Real Lincoln: A New Look at Abraham Lincoln, His Agenda, and an Unnecessary War_ are also worth considering. McDonald is more of a constitutional storyteller who withholds judgment; those books previously, however, tell it like it is.	2004-07-31
US	51650080	R2IZKDRLOCA75	0865971137	774571973	On Power	Books	4	51	55	N	N	Profound critique and analysis on nature of political power	~On Power: The Natural History of Its Growth~ chronicles the growth of political power throughout the ages and explains how the powers welded by modern Parliaments and Presidents would be the envy of medieval kings. Bertrand de Jouvenel has a colorful past and was once snared by the etatism of his native France.  After WWII, he produced this astute and trenchant analysis of political power and tracing its natural history and growth through the ages.  Political power has reached a crescendo in the past century.  Monarchs of yesteryears could only dream of the power welded by Presidents and Parliaments.  Bertrand opens with a chapter entitled the Minotaur (who is analogous to the Fuhrer Adolf Hitler) and proceeds to document and trace the growth of state power through the ages.  He addresses varying theories of sovereignty and the resulting practical effects of those theories in practice.  He astutely captures the corrupting influence of Rousseau with amazing clarity and iconoclastically tackles that sacrosanct creature 'democracy' which Bertrand de Jouvenel rightly characterizes democracy as a child of war. He fittingly features a chapter entitled 'Totalitarian Democracy' as the book comes to a close.  When the rule of law was held in high esteem, then efforts were made to check and prevent the concentration of power.  Nonetheless, the dubious theories about the 'general will,' or similar theories purporting an infallible will of the people, seemed to take hold and gave way to legitimizing a succession of demagogues and dictators with unbridled power. The era of demagogues usually climaxes into an age of total war as these powers clash swords.  It was essentially when democracy become the ultimate end, and not the means, that it achieved its most repugnant manifestations and lead to a concentration of power unimaginable in previous centuries.  Revolutionaries and demagogues like Lenin, Stalin, Mussolini and Hitler were the illegitimate sons of democracy and could allrightfully lay claim to being democrats.	2004-01-29
US	51650080	R19GZUH9OC1E24	0945466293	94505800	Reassessing the Presidency : The Rise of the Executive State and the Decline of Freedom	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	Reassessing the Presidency, Cincinnatus to Caesar	~Reassessing the Presidency : The Rise of the Executive State and the Decline of Freedom~ is an intriguing historical assessment of the American Presidency, which has become one of the most powerful institutions in the world. Likewise, the American Presidency has dramatically changed since its inception. Most modern history books on the Presidency are characterized by adulation of executive power, administrative largess, and aggressive federal intervention in domestic, economic and foreign policy. Nonetheless, this powerful reassessment of the Presidency by the Mises Institute challenges such hagiographic tomes that idolize the President and venerate the dictatorial Presidents for their constitutional usurpations and assumptions of un-delegated power solidified as precedent.    This powerful tome is essentially an anthology of essays offering a critical analysis of the Presidency as an institution, and the various Presidents through the year, as well as an assessment of their policy prerogatives, etc. Most of the authors do not mince words and they hold to a priori presupposition that constitutionally limited government is desirable and offer no apologies in their condemnation of those who usurp it. Some contributors are cynical enough to bluntly declare the utter impossibility of limited government like Hans-Hermann Hoppe.     The various contributors include a motley crew of intellectuals from Old Right thinkers, classical liberals, libertarians and southern conservatives. Generally, their harmony of perspective includes advocacy of a non-interventionist foreign policy based on armed neutrality, strategic independence and open commerce, as well as support of a laissez-faire market economy. Amongst the more notable contributors are: John V. Denson (author of The Costs of War: America's Pyrrhic Victories); Marshall L. DeRosa; Thomas J. DiLorenzo (author of the Real Lincoln); Paul Gottfried (author of After Liberalism); Hanns-Herman Hoppe (author of Democracy: The God that Failed); Jeffrey Rogers Hummel (author of Emancipating Slaves, Enslaving Free Men); Joseph R. Stromberg, and Clyde Wilson (editor of John C. Calhoun's papers).     One of the more interesting essays penned by Marshall DeRosa is entitled \\"Supreme Court As Accomplice.\\" It essentially documents judicial backing for what he characterizes as a despotic presidency. He starts by going over history from Old Republic constitutional foundations to a FDR's stacking the court to move the New Deal along. Another interesting piece is featured on the Electoral College. One essay by J.R. Hummel offers a history of an unsung hero, Martin Van Buren, and he wins acclaim chiefly for his advocacy of an independent treasury system where all federal government monies are kept in a federal depository, which is attendant to his opposition to a national bank. Marshall DeRosa and Thomas DiLorenzo offer a slew of indictments against Abraham Lincoln whose administration was characterized by executive usurpation of constitutionally delegated powers. They see the bittersweet precedent for usurpation set by the Lincoln regime. President Andrew Johnson receives extol as the tribune of states' rights and with putting an end to radical reconstruction. Also, several essays wrestle with the assent of the Imperial dreams of grandeur by William McKinley who architected the American empire and the belligerent Teddy Roosevelt are met with a piercing critique of their policies. They acted to repudiate the founding father's advocacy of armed neutrality and condemnation of reckless interventionism and expansionism. Teddy Roosevelt who is the darling of neoconservatives and progressives alike receives no praise here. His personality is demonstrated as megalomaniac as was his bloodlust for war. Roosevelt publicly scathed the idea of limited government as a relic of the horse-and-buggy era. Roosevelt is famous for his trust-busting campaign, which was really a smoke and mirrors charade to espouse populistrhetoric while devising economic corporatism beneficial to favored constituencies. He was a pawn of the J.P. Morgan group and Chicago meatpackers that lobbied for a federal regulatory state to put its small-scale competitors out of business. Roosevelt labored tirelessly to engorge the Presidency by his series of usurpations in the domestic and foreign policy arena. Woodrow Wilson is not spared criticism as Wilson's naive idealism and internationalism are documented as well. Finally, America's most cherished sacred cow, the legacy of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, is trampled as the contributors make light of the ominous similarities between the New Deal and fascism. (Initially, prior to WWII, American progressives found Mussolini to be saint and his corporatist regime as a model of reform for all nations.) FDR's love affair with Joseph Stalin and his naive overtures to the Soviet Union receive an energetic documentation as well. FDR practically handed Eastern Europe to Stalin on a silver platter and did so rather enthusiastically praising the Soviet Union as a democracy. As the reassessment reaches its climax, Paul Edward Gottfried and Michael Levin offer compelling condemnations explaining how the managerial President has become a social engineer of sorts.     All things considered, this colossal read is a veritable goldmine of information and history and its honest and frank critique of the Presidency is certainly informative to say the least. These days, it seems Presidents with a fetish for usurpation of their constitutionally limited powers always seem to be the darlings of the academic and political establishment who spout out hagiographic books idolizing the worst offenders against the Constitution. Presidential dictators are trendsetters and loved by the establishment. Thus, this book is profoundly heterodox in rejecting the usual bandwagon praise for Lincoln, the two Roosevelts, Truman and Wilson. Overall, the book is amazingly astute in its observations and sharply critical of the executive state. Its conclusions, whether you agree with them or not, are extremely thought provoking and they cannot be easily dismissed. This book isn't written in a spirit of withholding judgment as conservative historian, Forrest McDonald, so often does, but rather it frankly just 'tells it like it is. One doesn't have to agree with everything in total to find it incredibly useful. Nonetheless, the book is profoundly thought provoking and a devastating indictment of an institution that has so egregiously strayed from the original intent of those that framed it and the Constitution.	2004-01-04
US	51650080	R3TRSWECGFQRTQ	0140444211	762791684	The Politics (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Aristole's Politics is relevant and still applicable today	~The Politics (Penguin Classics)~ is a groundbreaking classic of Hellenistic political thought from the rational philosopher Aristotle. \\"Man is by nature a political animal,\\" avows Aristotle. First, it is important to note that this is not an authoritarian ruler's blackbook on the art of governing. Aristotle is not Machiavelli. Second, many people when first approaching Aristotle naively presume that he is mirror-image protege of Plato, which could not be further from the truth. Aristotle's references to his teacher Plato are laced with a cynical tone of irreverence. Plato was an idealist and Aristotle was a profound realist. I think it is a pointless endeavor to pick favorites from among them since rationalism and idealism both have their limitations. Some political theorists split hairs over whether Aristotle or Plato is a \\"conservative,\\" which is hardly ascertainable. This is reductionism at its worst. In Hellenic antiquity, there was no delineation between the state and civil society, which should horrify the modern conservative. So, perhaps the conservative should content himself to be well read in both Aristotle and Plato rather than simply seeking to emulate one of them. Aristotle had a profound influence on the rise of medieval scholasticism and profoundly shaped the thought of Catholic theologians like Thomas Aquinas. Perhaps one of his big accomplishments is giving the realist camp intellectual ammunition to buoy their position.     Politics is still relevant today I think and one can learn a lot from Aristotle. It should be noted that Greek political thought and their concept of the polity (body politic) is profoundly dissimilar from post-medieval political thought in the West. Yet Aristotle's Politics is still relevant today in my opinion. I think one of the most profound things to be gleaned from Politics is a healthy dose of realism as opposed to the naive Wilsonian idealism that our leaders apply to foreign policy. Aristotle realized there are no canned quick-fix universal solutions to subordinate everything to. Also, Aristotle elaborated upon the various ascertainable political systems in their good and bad forms respectively (i.e. monarchy, tyranny; aristocracy, oligarchy; polity, democracy; etc.) Moreover, the practical approach to governance varies depends on any number of factors such as the nature of the polity, culture and society. Hence, modern efforts to impose \\"democracy\\" and/or \\"democratic capitalism\\" as if these are tangible commodities for export abroad usually are usually met with failures, or unexpected and less than desired for results. In recent years, nations like Russia acclimated to authoritarian rule never had much success at implementing it. The closest thing to \\"democracy\\" in the Islamic world, for example, would be Ayatollah Khomeini's populist fundamentalist regime in Iran that emerged in the late 1970s. Is that what the West really wants for the Muslim world?	2003-12-28
US	51650080	R2BNQ3193FPMTN	0195100719	616054975	Central Europe: Enemies, Neighbors, Friends	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Superb Background Study for understanding Central Europe	~Central Europe: Enemies, Neighbors, and Friends~ is an amazing background history on Central and Eastern Europe. Lonnie Johnson chronicles central European historical developments, whether cultural, political and socio-economic, after the fall of Rome and the rise of the Christian West. Central Europe (\\"Mitteleurope\\") is a vibrant region where the interplay of cultures (i.e. Slavic, Germanic, Magyar, Turkish, et al.) and faith (i.e. Catholic, Protestant, Orthodox and Islam) interact. Johnson gives a great cursory background to the nineteenth century nationalist movements throughout Central Europe and the so called Springtime Revolutions of 1848. Moreover, his elaboration on feudal developments helps gives clarity to understanding the sometimes enigmatic region. Anyway, Johnson explains why it is integral to understand the medieval meaning of natio (nation) in order to gain proper cognizance of history. The medieval kingdoms were \\"relatively loose confederations ruled by kings who claimed a limited amount of jurisdiction for specific subordinate political and territorial units, each of which, in turn, was ruled by nobles who exercised a high degree of autonomy in their domains.\\" Thus, the nobles and not the people were the constituent members of the nation. Approaching Central European history, without the clouded lens of modern democratic theory, which eschews feudalism as primitive, has clouded proper understanding of the developments so integral to Central Europe and its history. While romantic nationalism has swept Central Europe, the metamorphosis of romantic nationalism with hundreds of years of tradition, requires understanding medieval developments to frame everything in the proper perspective.       There are history lessons to be learned from this book. To me, the breakup of Austria-Hungary was an impetus for the violent ultra-nationalism, which has plagued the region in the twentieth century and those areas peripheral to central Europe like the Balkans. Austria-Hungary, a traditional monarchy, acted as a stabilizer and peacekeeper in the Balkans. Prussia's self-assertion in the 19th century, and their being the torchbearer of Pan-German nationalism, played no small part in the gradual downfall of traditional monarchies like that of the Austrian Hapsburgs though. The Great War sealed the fate of the Hapsburg Empire. This book also cast light on the Slavic and Germanic tension, which was forever part of the region. It also proves the absurdity of Nazi race theories of \\"racial purity,\\" since the various peoples of Mitteleurope, the Germans in particular, are among the most mixed stocks in Europe... In the middle ages, the Teutonic Knights essentially Germanized many of the Slavs in their desire to push the creed of Western Christendom. The Teutons gave the conquered Slavs the German language and the Roman Catholic Faith. The unvanquished Slavs further to the east countered the Germanic push as well. Though, in Poland the Slavs never displaced Roman Catholicism, only the German language, though not in its entirity. Ironically, the wellspring from which Pan-Germanism and German nationalism was born was amongst amalgamated German-speaking \\"Germano-Slavs\\" in Prussia. (Granted, they were thoroughly Germanized culturally, and had no problem with future dehumanization of their Slavic neighbors to the east.) The ideology of Pan-Germanism was wrapped in a mythology about German supremacy and blood purity, which history proves to be false. Anyway, Johnson wraps up the book with a fascinating probe into 20th century history as two world wars changed the political landscape. Central European history under the Nazis and the Soviets is covered with amazing clarity. With regards to the Balkans and that multi-ethnic state of Yugoslavia created after the Great War, much can be learned from this book in understanding and diagnosing the problems of Western (i.e. EU/NATO/US) foreign policy towards the Balkans.      Lonnie Johnson has assembled a fascinating window into the history and interplay of cultures over the past millenium in Central Europe. A background on medieval and modern history of the region should give the reader great deal of perspective on the European conflicts of the twentieth century.	2003-12-27
US	51650080	RBA61CBTQ3C25	0865970912	440497839	Political Sermons of the American Founding Era: 1730-1805	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Political Sermons of the Founding Era	~Political Sermons of the American Founding Era: 1730-1805~ is an excellent source of political sermons from the American colonial and founding era. Themes cover everything from the Biblically-ordained role of civil authorities to patriotism to the dangers of prosperity to the sovereignty of God. Sermons in this anthology feature a cross-section of early American Christian denominations: including Congregationalist Puritans, Baptists, and High Anglicans like James Madison. Samuel Langdon's Sermon on the \\"Republic of the Israelites, An Example\\" is particularly intriguing and no doubt inspirational to all who heard his message. Issac Backus was a New England Baptist who also made an impassioned plea for religious liberties in 1773, echoing a theme of the founders that religion is the duty we owe are creator. John Adams once avowed our Constitution was for a religious and moral people. The reality that virtue is a prerequisite for a Republic is often forgotten. Most of the founding fathers believed that virtue was to be found in the tenets of Christianity. James Madison said it best, \\"We have staked the whole future of American civilization, not upon the power of government, far from it. We have staked the future of all of our political institutions upon the capacity of each and all of us to govern ourselves, to control ourselves, to sustain ourselves according to the Ten Commandments of God.\\"	2003-10-12
US	51650080	R14GQTZMABV7XY	0802808743	466194467	Donoso Cortes: Cassandra of the Age	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Donoso Cortes: Right-Wing Reactionary and Political Prophet	~Donoso Cortes: Cassandra of the Age~ is an intriguing political biography of a reactionary Spanish conservative who opposed the radicalism fomented by the French Revolution. Don Juan Donoso Cortes was a remarkable nineteenth century Spanish statesmen and Catholic traditionalist. In his formative years Cortes even flirted with liberalism only to react strongly against it. Cortes embodies Real-Politik and shows influence from St. Augustine, Hobbes and Machiavelli. Born shortly after the tumultuous upheavals wrought by the French Revolution, Cortes was eerily prophetic and saw a dark future of socialism, mass politics, and the rise of the herd. In his country, there was a deep divide between defenders of the monarchy (absolutist, clerical, conservative, and traditionalist) and liberals of varying shades who advocated embracing elements of the 1791 Revolution.       For Cortes, liberalism was the nebulous creature paving the way for socialism and itself was an incubator for socialism, rationalism and democracy (the deification of the masses). He found the idealized abstractions of the French Revolution, that is \\"Liberty, Equality and Fraternity,\\" to be noxious and repugnant for they made crude caricatures of Christian principles. In promising unlimited freedom, the Revolution only brought strife, tyranny, and bloodletting. Cortes had no whimsical views about the innate goodness of mankind like Rousseau. His worldview accounted for original sin and man's depravity. Thus, Cortes recognized that when people lose their religious moorings, they lose their public virtue as well. When this occurs, Cortes held that dictatorship must fortify established authority, otherwise revolution or anarchy will ensue. For Cortes, dictatorship was a necessary corrective to thwart chaos. Cortes was no totalitarian, however, and recognized that the revolutionary malaise was destroying the intermediary associations between the individual and state. It was destroying social bonds, traditionalhierarchy and leading to the creation of hyper-atomized and individuals corrupted by countless -isms (i.e. atheism, rationalism, materialism, and socialism.) Moreover, Cortes was distraught by the moral corruption wrought by these pernicious ideologies, which he characterized as a demonic theology. Yet he had a peculiar awe for revolutionary adherents, particularly Proudhon, because of their fervor, commitment and dedication to their cause.       Cortes was prophetic in predicting a fusion of pan-Slavic nationalism with socialism, (which was unleashed by the Bolsheviks.) He obviously saw the signs. The seeds of discontent were planted in Russia by the nihilism of 19th century Russian intellectuals and by revolutionary agitation from abroad. Fascism too was wrought out by the mass politics and itself was a heir to the French Revolution to which even Hitler acknowledged. Cortes was committed to a movement of Christian counterrevolution and renewal. He was overwhelmed by a sense of pessimism. Ultimately, Cortes held to a Deutero-Isaiah view, believing that deliverance could only come from God. He had no misplaced faith in the masses and democracy. This intriguing book by R.A. Herrera sketches an intriguing biography of Cortes with some interesting quotations. Though, if you want to delve deeper into Cortes' political thought than you might want to buy _Selected Works of Donoso Cortes_.	2003-10-11
US	51650080	R28VW36L6UFSRR	1887898018	755060481	Revolution from the Middle	Books	4	24	28	N	Y	A Conservative Counterrevolution Countering the Hegemon?	~Revolution from the Middle~ is essentially an anthology of op-ed articles compiled by conservative journalist Samuel Francis from Chronicles Magazine. Francis is perceptive even if it misses the mark. He makes the contention that Middle America must become self-conscious or be crushed in a gigantic pincer movement by the Left Coasters, the Neoconservatives in orbit around the Beltway and the Limousine Liberals of the Northeastern Establishment. Internationalism coupled with runaway immigration from the Third World, cosmopolitan urbanization, decadent entertainment, vanity and crass materialism are the seeds of discontent sowed by the elites. If the crisis goes unabated, Middle America will be assimilated into a cultural and spiritual void. Francis hopes to thwart the dawning of America as a new Tower of Babel seething in a moat of cosmopolitan decadence and one-worldism. The book is thought-provoking and should not be ignored by conservatives.<br /><br />Francis breaks with luminaries like Russell Kirk and Erik Von Kuehnelt-Leddihin who for principled reasons rightly refuse to conflate conservatism to being an ideology (as they otherwise deem ideology undesirable.) Francis on the other hand reasons that there is little left to conserve. As such, conservatives need to take a cue from communist theoretician Gramsci and adopt an insurgent ideology, albeit one of a restorationist, traditionalist and counterrevolutionary nature. This counterinsurgency should strive to displace the hegemonic ideology of the transnational elites. Cognizance of the modus operandi of the Left has led Francis to believe that we must emulate their tactics to effectively fight and win a culture and political war. Gramsci proposed \\"a long march through the institutions,\\" which would lead to the creation of a veritable state within a state. The Leftist ideology would topple the \\"bourgeoisie superstructure\\" from within, graft itself onto the existing state and gradually throw residual elements ofthe old order off.<br /><br />To the dismay of the Right, it seems that the cultural overlords have already achieved their Fabian goals when conservatives break from traditional conservatism to become in Francis' words 'Middle American Radicals' (MARS) (c.f., [[ASIN:0268015945 The Radical Center: Middle Americans and the Politics of Alienation]]). Paleo-conservatives may fault Francis for conflating conservatism to an insurgent ideology. Neoconservatism is an ideology that retooled New Deal liberalism with sprinkles of conservative nostrums to appeal to America's nominally conservative elements in counterpoise to the political Left. To his credit, Francis' pessimism is not tainted with the resignation that so many other avowed conservatives have. Francis thinks Middle America shouldn't go out with just a mere whimper, but fight to the end, and in Nietzschean terms, embracing the 'will to power.'<br /><br />In analyzing some of the finer points of Francis' conservative counterrevolution, which may be familiar to Buchananites of the Old Right, he itinerates an America First platform of opposition to globalization as well as opposition to runaway immigration, which is displacing the distinctively European-Western culture upon which the U.S. was founded. He feels that Middle America's interests lie in preservation of the social insurance schemes wrought out in the New Deal and empowering the welfare state for Middle American interests. I cannot concur with this point. The New Deal paved the way for egalitarian leveling and dependence-breeding, which has debilitated Middle America's power. His essential point is that Middle America needs to be forceful in asserting itself. It must assert Middle America's interests while upholding, fortifying and restoring our Western culture and traditions. Middle America may become detached from its cultural and traditional roots if she does not meet the challenge posed by the political Left, globalism and multiculturalism. Middle America will then be submerged into an amalgam underclass numbed by propaganda and bread and circuses from the transnational elites.<br /><br />Perhaps true blue American conservatism has already died. And if so residual elements of the old order in the South, Midwest, and the Western U.S. are having a hard time coming to grips with this reality. In this case, these musings are just a sad obituary by a reactionary on the Right. Or perhaps this prophetic book is a foreshadowing of deepening conflict between an increasingly self-conscious Middle America and its cultural tormentors, the liberal, cosmopolitan, transnational elites.	2003-10-11
US	51650080	R3CZ7JSA8FK4ZT	0684847671	681840873	The Libertarian Reader: Classic and Contemporary Writings from Lao Tzu to Milton Friedman	Books	5	34	49	N	N	An Anthology Capturing the Essence of Libertarian Thought	~The Libertarian Reader: Classic and Contemporary Writings from Lao-Tzu to Milton Friedman~ is a fascinating primer on libertarian thinking throughout the ages. I being of a classical conservative mind, hope to offer a fair critique of both this book and libertarianism in general. I acquired it during my pre-law days when studying political theory. Anyway, David Boaz has assembled an anthology of political and philosophical writings gleaned throughout history of what he deems to be libertarian thought. The introductory section entitled \\"Skepticism About Power\\" puts forward the crux of libertarian thought, namely skepticism of concentrated power and an affinity for the principle of subsidiarity and the widespread dispersal of power. In sum, libertarians affirm Lord Acton's axiom that \\"power tends to corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely.\\" Boaz tosses in a selection from the Scriptures, in 1 Samuel 8, which shows the consequences of the ancient Israelites insisting on a monarchy. Here, the prophet Samuel warned of the consequences of absolutism that would ensue, but they the people would not relent and God through his permissive will relented and gave them their monarchy. James Madison's poignant Federalist #10 is included and correlates the founder's reverence of liberty with libertarian thought. Boaz infers the continuity of mainstream libertarianism with the 'classical' liberalism of yesteryears. Not surprisingly, advocates of free-markets and opponents of statism are among the cast of characters featured in his selections. Economists like Adam Smith, Frederic Bastiat, F.A. Hayek and Ludwig von Mises grace the pages. Frenchmen Bertrand de Jouvenal offers a poignant critique of redistribution, which was gathered from the pages of \\"The Ethics of Redistribution.\\" Some egalitarian levelers, anarchists, and other assorted radicals like Lysander Spooner and social Darwinist Herbert Spencer are featured as well.      With regards to foreign policy issues, the essays featured seem to acquiesce with the sentiments of the founding fathers, which may be summed up in the dictum of Jefferson: \\"Peace, commerce, and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none.\\" These essays advocate strategic disengagement, a policy of strategic independence, which is commensurate with the prevailing foreign policy of armed neutrality espoused in the early years of the American republic. One essayist, namely Ted Galen Carpenter, works alongside Boaz at the Cato Institute, and offers a sensible assessment of our entanglement with the UN and its negative long-term consequences. However, libertarianism may be shallow in some respect on international affairs, hence their affinity for Richard Cobden whom Boaz featured. Cobden's fanciful screed entitled \\"Commerce is the Grand Panacea\\" acts as if free trade amongst the nations will whimsically do away with war. For political realists, this is a bit of well wishing that doesn't mesh too well with reality or history.     Thus far I've been dispassionate for the most part, but now let me toss in a monkey-wrench in regards to Boaz's selection of libertarian icons. Many contributors selected never identified themselves libertarians as such. Moreover, some were avowed opponents of libertarianism. In the 1950s, economist F.A. Hayek deplored those who would assign the libertarian appellation to him. He insisted that he was an \\"Old Whig, with emphasis on Old.\\" Likewise, Ayn Rand too, had bad things to say about libertarians of her time, yet many in libertarian circles strangely have an affinity for her crude, materialistic objectivist philosophy. Some of the philosophical and theoretical underpinnings of libertarianism (visible in the schisms of 19th century classical liberalism) planted the seeds of what mutated into modern, permissive liberalism with its penchant for radical secularizing and egalitarian leveling. Some of these flaws are manifest in the nineteenth century selections featured in this book. Granted, some libertarians (i.e. paleolibertarians) are openly appalled at these dark facets of modernity that I'm about to describe. Generally, many libertarians have a dogmatic affinity for an abstract liberty, a tendency to reject a transcendent moral order, a penchant for crude utilitarian reductionism, and some even find all forms of coercion appalling, apparently even the social stigmatism of family, tradition and societal custom. (BTW If you think this is an overstatement than read Harry Browne's _How I Found Freedom in an Unfree World_.) Murray Rothbard was adamant that libertarians aren't libertines. However, as libertarian writers prattle off screeds like _Ain't Nobody's Business If You Do_ and _XXX: A Woman's Right to Pornography_ advocating an unfettered market for drugs and sex, it seems the more libertine side of libertarianism is apparent. Those avowed libertarians that retort, \\"I'm against these things,\\" probably favor Edmund Burke over Thomas Paine, and might as well rally to the conservative camp if they do an accurate self-assessment. Furthermore, many libertarians devalue both community and the nation-state, and question the sovereignty of states to regulate immigration while they long for a borderless world of hyper-atomized individuals engaged in economic transactions. That \\"globalization\\" is a cousin of \\"internationalism\\" remains a fatal concession and they have to tacitly admit it. Some libertarians in their theorizing have a tendency to supplant the marketplace in place of civil society. In doing so, they adhere to a dictum that can be surmised as \\"everything inside the market and nothing outside the market,\\" thus turning Mussolini's statist mantra on its nose. \\"Ideas have consequnces,\\" as Richard Weaver observes, and naturally the liberalism of Paine, Spencer, Mill and yes even Locke gave way to modern liberalism and the perils of modernity.      I was once an avowed libertarian, but with a kick; I fancied myself as \\"a conservative with a libertarian bent.\\" As conservative thinker Russell Kirk surmises, many nominal conservative youths flirt with libertarianism, but anyone who thinks seriously about politics falls away from the shallow philosophy. Nevertheless, there is much in libertarian thought to be admired, though they're not always the exclusive harbingers of all these good ideas they espouse. It's also real easy to maintain \\"ideological purity\\" on economic issues, for example, when you're not in power. Libertarians particularly those affiliated with the Cato Institute are aligned with the Old Right in an effort to unleash what we might characterize as a \\"devolution revolution.\\" Such a move would effectively restore the 10th Amendment and federalism commensurate with original intent of the U.S. Constitution's framers. (Neoconservatives however are too apt to constitutional compromise.) Anyhow, for accomplishing his task of making an anthology offering a cross-section of libertarian thought, I'll give Boaz a thumbs up and a five-star rating despite my misgivings about libertarianism.	2003-07-27
US	51650080	R8MZ94GRFCM8H	0736904646	508804670	Dismantling Evolution: Building the Case for Intelligent Design (Examine the Evidence)	Books	4	31	42	N	N	Making the case for intelligent design...	~Dismantling Evolution (Examine the Evidence)~ is authored by a former skeptic and evolutionist.  This is not the most in-depth book on the subject of the creation vs. evolution debate, but it documents the evidences for special creation and the flaws in evolutionary theory quite well. The author makes a compelling case for intelligent design in the universe and life itself.  One chapter entitled Hard Evidence versus Soft Evidence gives a background on epistemological methodology in proving intelligent design. The fossil record and geological evidence that supposedly gives credence to macroevolution is analyzed with remarkable clarity. Muncaster also expounds upon the theory of irreducible complexity, which Michael Behe deals with thoroughly in Darwin's Black Box. The existence of DNA, the building blocks that program organic life, gives ample evidence for intelligent design, particularly when one begins to grasp its' utter complexity. In challenging the evolutionist's worldview, Muncaster goes beyond the life sciences in order to to point out the laws of physics, which fundamentally undermine evolutionary theory.  The laws of thermodynamics cast serious doubts on the claims of evolutionists.  Evolutionists posit that the life is advancing to higher order, which is contradicted by the fact that observation has never revealed new information being added to DNA and that everything in the universe is in a state of entropy or decay. Nonetheless, while this book covers many bases, a skeptic or creation apologist may want to explore a book that probes one facet of creationism at a time (i.e. the irreducible complexity theory or the information theory.) This is not the definitive book on the subject, though it certainly is an informative reference. For the scientific laymen this book maybe preferable to Michael Behe's book.	2003-07-26
US	51650080	R3I2R66S6B8NP1	0375501495	377968342	The World of Beretta: An International Legend	Books	5	18	22	N	N	A Must Have for Admirers of Beretta Firearms	R.L. Wilson has assembled a handsome, well-researched volume on the world's oldest and most respected maker of firearms, Fabbrica d'Armi Pietro Beretta. Beretta stands out for its superb Italian craftsmanship, durable quality and design. Beretta's reputation has earned it respect and Beretta supplies the standard sidearm of the U.S. Armed Forces, which is the 9mm M9. Too me there are few things that surpass the exquisite aesthetic appeal of the Beretta pistol, except maybe a beautiful blue-eyed blonde. I'm a Beretta owner, and it's often to be expected that a man claims his possession to be best, but when I'm in the market for another gun, I'm not getting a Smith &amp; Wesson or a Ruger, I'm getting another Beretta. These guns are tried and true. So, whether you're a collector of these fine firearms or just an admirer, I wholeheartedly recommend this informative, illustrated and history-filled volume on Beretta firearms. Some other reviewer scoffed that this is book is merely an effort to create \\"a mystique and romance\\" about Beretta, but Beretta has earned this after nearly 500 years. Wilson just captures the essence of the \\"mystique.\\" Sure this book is a coffee table tome, but it is beautifully illustrated and fun to read and skim through! I give it 4.5/5.0 stars.	2003-07-25
US	51650080	R1WSSVRU8MHKB9	1929241631	83213059	Beloved Bride: The Letters of Stonewall Jackson to His Wife	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Captures the Sterling Character of Jackson in His Letters	~Beloved Bride: The Letters of Stonewall Jackson to His Wife~ is a compilation of love letters written by the great Confederate general to his beloved wife. Bill Potter and the Vision Forum have put together a remarkable compilation of letters of the great southern General Thomas Jonathan Jackson better known posthomously after the war as 'Stonewall' Jackson. These letters chronicle Jackson's courtship leading to his marriage with his beloved wife Anna Morrison Jackson as well as the turbulent wartorn years that follow. You really get a feel for the anguish of the soldier on the field-who longs to be at home with wife and child-but realizes he has a duty to country to fulfill. Stonewall stands out not only as a man of brilliant military genius, but as a man of dignity, honor and integrity. He was an accomplished West Point graduate and a renowned professor at VMI. Though he remained a humble and pious man with a deep abiding faith in the Gospel of Christ and a firm steadfast belief in the sovereignty of God. The editor Bill Potter does a remarkable job at offering a cursory background on Jackson and his character. He was an exemplary man of character who loved his wife Anna and his child very deeply. Sadly, he was accidently shot by his own men. But Jackson knew that all things work together for good to those who love God and are called according to God's purposes (Romans 8:28). (FYI This was one of Jackson's favorite passages of Scripture.) The cover art features a photo shot from the recent blockbuster Gods and Generals of Stephen Lang who played Jackson. I also recommend _Christ in the Camp_, which is a story of religious revival and proclamation of the Gospel during the war between the states by the same publisher.	2003-07-21
US	51650080	RA7LNSQWZITXZ	1882926013	562392957	The Politics of Prudence	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Conservatism 101: Crash Course on the 20th Century Movement	Another reviewer said it best, this is \\"Conservatism 101.\\" Kirk offers an overview of conservatism and the movement in the 20th century. The pillars of conservatism are an embrace of tradition, upholding limited government and ordered liberty. Moreover, he makes a good point, in quoting Hughes, he purports that conservatism is not an ideology, but the negation of ideology. Kirk offers a bittersweet assessment of libertarians and their limitations and flaws as he perceives them. He elaborates on the Humane Economy posited by Swiss economist Wilhelm Roepke. Roepke stands opposed to the \\"colossal\\" mass welfare state of big business, big regulation and the proletariat masses. A humane economy rests on the principles of subsidiarity and distributism (widespread distribution of private property) while the state doesn't displace or usurp the role of civil society and its humane institutions. Kirk writes an obituary for the so called neoconservatives, though this maybe wishful thinking at best, since unfortunately the late Russell Kirk is dead, and well the neocons have taken over the conservative movement. Kirk also brings the ideas of Richard Weaver and southern conservatism to the table. All things considered, this is a good volume and a good introduction to true blue conservatism, though not Kirk's best.	2003-07-19
US	51650080	R1JO9TF4Z0N84E	1882926242	243481026	A Humane Economy: The Social Framework of the Free Market	Books	5	32	33	N	N	The Humane Economy: Economics as if the Individual Matters..	~A Humane Economy~ is an astute treatise and insightful look at the social and political framework of the market economy. Wilhelm Rpke is a brilliant German-born economic, social and political thinker, and perhaps my favorite amongst the so called \\"Austrian school.\\" He stands apart from his colleagues in that he thinks on a more humane level rejecting crude utilitarian calculations in favor of sound and prudent empirical reasoning. This brilliant German economist of the \\"Austrian school\\" stood up to the centralising and dehumanising policies of the Nazis. Rpke recognised that collectivist ideologies lay waste to civil society-destroying the intermediary institutions between individual and state. When the State acts to supplant the natural civil associations with state institutions to empower and enhance the state, it destroys the moral fabric of communities, saps the nation's economic vitality and usually leads to twin perils of centralisation and atomisation. Rpke recognized that allocating resources by the free play of supply and demand is the most humane system and as such he was champion of the market economy. He was influential over German economist Ludwig Erhard, who architected the Federal Republic of Germany's postwar economic plan, which emphasized free enterprise while effectively curtailing state controls (i.e. price fixing, rationing, and state enterprises.)    Rpke would attest that mammon is not the measure of all things. In Rpke's eyes, the intangibles-that is to say faith, family and tradition-are the things that animate life and give it meaning. Rpke recognised the limitations of the market economy. Rpke possessed a remarkable sense of prudence and conservative sobriety in his thinking as it relates to the political economy. He rejected the idea of making economists into social engineers whether in the interests of \\"efficiency\\" or \\"social justice.\\" And amongst his \\"Austrian\\" colleagues like F.A. Hayek and Ludwig von Mises, he brought economics to a more humane level, rejecting crude utilitarian logic in favor of more sound empirical reasoning to defend the market economy. Furthermore, he refrains from the market idolatry that is so common to libertarian apologists for the free-market these days. Libertarians frequently espouse an ideology that can be summed up as \\"everything in the market, nothing outside the market.\\" (This, of course, turns Mussolini's statist mantra on its nose.) Rpke recognised something that libertarians miss with their penchant for crude utilitarian calculations and their amoral neutrality that often makes being an avowed \\"libertarian\\" indistinguishable from being a \\"libertine.\\" Many libertarians content themselves writing diatribes defending the \\"robber barrons\\" of the yesteryears while praising the colossal (i.e. Wal-Mart and oil cartels.) In their efforts to defend any and everything related to \\"the private sector,\\" these reductionists forget that the apparently sporadic interventions of the state often come at the behest of big business. Many capitalists\\" content themselves with cozy public-private partnerships that translate to steady, predictable profits and a regulated environment that drowns small business competition. Big business typically possesses a considerable advantage over their smaller competitors, because they can absorb the regulatory costs much easier and they can influence the regulators and regulations. Rpke, however, scorns the \\"cult of the colossal\\" not in demagogic rhetoric, but in the rhetoric of an economist. He likewise sees \\"big business\\" as a concomitant pillar of \\"big government\\" and its regulatory state. Rpke possessed some peculiarities in his lexicon that set in him apart from his colleagues, but his motive for such peculiarities was principled. Rpke rejected characterising socialism as a \\"planned economy\\" and he recognised that the market economy facilitated economic activity \\"planned\\" by entrepreneurs as opposed to state planners. He preferred the delineation of \\"market economy\\" to \\"capitalism\\" since what often passed for capitalism in the early twentieth century was a large interventionist welfare state in a cozy lockstep relationship with big business monopolists. This was state corporatism not capitalism. Moreover, \\"capitalism\\" was, of course, coined by its chief critic Karl Marx and while the term captures the importance of capital to the market economy, it remains rather sterile and ideological. What is more, \\"capitalism\\" typically delineates a materialistic consumerist ideology or images of big business rather than a social framework based on the market economy.    Unlike libertarians and some classical economists who too often dwell in the realm of abstract theory, Rpke possessed a gritty realism: first, he recognised that there is interplay between between political and economic processes; and he recognised the value of state intervention in prosecuting acts of force and fraud, enforcing contracts and upholding private property rights. As an economist, he could offer prescriptive wisdom on the proper and limited role of the state in the economy while elaborating upon the causes and consequences imprudent state interventions (i.e. price-fixing, inflation, production quotas, monopolies, cartels, overtaxation and overregulation.) Rpke essentially favored economic laissez-faire overseen by a night-watchmen state that exercised profound restraint in its interventionism least it hinder or even cripple a nation's potential for prosperity. Underlying Rpke's humane economy is the idea that a market economy needs a prudent civil framework, widespread distribution of property, a strong entrepreneurial middle class and emphasis on parochial traditionalism. Anyway, Rpke itinerates the need for sound monetary and fiscal policy on the part of the state. He holds that the gold standard is the only real safeguard against the vicious boom-and-bust cycles of modern capitalist society. Rpke recognised that a market economy flourishes when tradition and community guard against the centralising depredations of both the state and big business. Rpke further emphasised the principle of subsidiarity, which in Europe today seems to survive only in that beautiful alpine island of parochialism, namely Switzerland. Though, Switzerland may be losing its vitality as it is straddled by the colossal and cosmopolitan EU super-state as if it is ready to be cansumed.    In the Humane Economy, Rpke surmised that: \\"The market economy, and with social and political freedom, can thrive only as part and under the protection of a bourgeois system. This implies the existence of a society in which certain fundamentals are respected and color the whole network of social relationships: individual effort and responsibility, absolute norms and values, independence based on ownership, prudence and daring, calculating and saving, responsibility for planning one's own life, proper coherence with the community, family feeling, a sense of tradition and the succession of generations combined with an open-minded view of the present and the future, proper tension between individual and community, firm moral discipline, respect for the value of money, the courage to grapple on one's own with life and its uncertainties, a sense of the natural order of things, and a firm scale of values.\\" To answer those who might sneer at this, Rpke nimbly replies, \\"Whoever turns his nose up at these things... suspects them of being 'reactionary'... may in all seriousness be asked what ideals he intends to defend against Communism without having to borrow from it.\\"    John Zmirak does a wonderful job profiling the life and work of a very brilliant man. Bravo! Rpke's ideas are remarkably original, but even so are analogous to that of conservative sociologist Robert Nisbet, Anglo-Catholic distributists like Chesterton and Belloc, and the Southern agrarians. You might check out their works as well if Wilhelm Rpke interestsyou.	2003-06-29
US	51650080	R903X5SBV8EBY	080105222X	839316544	Reformed Confessions Harmonized	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An invaluable reference tool for the Reformed theologian	The Scottish Presbyterian leader Sinclair Ferguson and Joel Beeke, an American seminary Professor, have both edited and compiled a wonderful and resourceful reference book for the Reformed Christian.  This book offers a well-organized presentation of the major Reformed catechisms or confessional creeds side-by-side with the creeds reorganized to cover the various doctrines.  The book cover doctrines such as: theology (the doctrine of God); anthropology (the doctrine of man); christology (the doctrine of Christ); soteriology (the doctrine of salvation); ecclesiology (the doctrine of the church); and eschatology (the doctrine of last things.)  It features seven confessional creeds: the Belgic Confession of Faith (1561); the Heidelberg Catechism (1563); Second Helvetic Confession (1566); Canons of Dort (1618-19); and the various Westminster confessions (1647-48).  The doctrines are annotated with footnotes and an extremely helpful bibliography of theology resources is included.	2003-06-27
US	51650080	R27N2K3OZ397FE	0875524443	630230884	The Five Points of Calvinism: Defined, Defended, Documented	Books	4	12	15	N	N	A Helpful Introductory Tract to the Doctrines of Grace	The five points of Calvinism came about as a response to the Arminian Remonstrance. The Arminian Remonstrance demanded a radical change in the Reformed theology of the Christian church in Holland. The Arminians challenged the sovereign grace doctrines affirmed in the Belgeic Confession of Faith and the Heidelberg Cathecism and disavowed the Reformed doctrine of predestination among other things. Arminianism essentially affirms that man initiates salvation in accord with his free will, which I believe is in sharp contrast to the message of Scriptures. This tract compares and contrasts the tenets of Calvinism versus those of Arminianism and then proceeds to document Scriptural evidences for Calvinism.  It features a helpful bibliography of resources affirming Reformed theology.  Many opponents of Reformed theology disparage 'Calvinism' as if its adherents are duped into some innovative 'new' doctrine contrived by John Calvin- but Calvin only affirmed the spiritual truths espoused by Augustine, the Apostle Paul and Christ himself.  Calvin no more invented the doctrines of grace than he invented God's creation.    The five points of Calvinism represent the doctrines of total depravity, unconditional election, limited atonement, irresistable grace and the perserverence of the saints.  These doctrines form an easy-to-remember acrostic: T.U.L.I.P.  A previous reviewer affirmed that he is a \\"2-point Calvinist\\" while I contend there is LOGICALLY no such thing, since he does not likely affirm a doctrine of total depravity remotely similiar to that of the Reformed doctrine of man's innate depravity.  For if he did, he would recognize that there is corollary to the total depravity of man, which is man's total inability to save himself and the need for redemption by God's grace alone.  As it is written, it is God who justifies and we who were made alive by the Holy Spirit were formerly dead to our sins and trespasses.    If you're new to Reformed Theology or interested in betterunderstanding it, you might check out my Amazon guide to Reformed Protestant theology as well as _What is So Amazing About Grace_ by Phillip Yancey. Sola Fide!	2003-06-27
US	51650080	R1LTJDH2RVSL3I	0830815058	782549514	The Story of Christian Theology: Twenty Centuries of Tradition & Reform	Books	4	9	13	N	N	A good survey history of Christian Church and Theology	This is a well-written narrative history of the Christian Church from its early years.  This book documents the church's struggles against the various heresies from anti-trinitarianism to gnosticism.  It gives a good background on the various church fathers from the saintly ones who stood steadfast to the Word to the heretical apostates like the proto-Arminian Pelagius.  It captures the development of the Reformation and the rediscovery of Biblically sound Augstinian-Pauline Theology by Calvin and Zwingli.  All other Protestant sects are discussed in detailed such as the Lutherans and Methodists.  Olson closes with an overview of the attack mounted against orthodox Christian theology by liberalism and neo-orthodoxy.  Overall, this is a fascinating narrative history, which captures the theological and liturgical developments developments of the Christian Church.	2003-06-27
US	51650080	R3K6KFKSILOAVF	0691089825	115625930	After Liberalism: Mass Democracy in the Managerial State.	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Sobering Assessment of the Therapeutic Managerial State	~After Liberalism: Mass Democracy in the Managerial State~ is a thoughtful and erudite work, which offers a sobering assessment of the therapeutic managerial state. First, Gottfried purports that there is such a thing and explains its evolution from the Welfare State of yesteryears. The managerial state is ruled by an entrenched oligarchy of administrative elites, judicial activists and social engineers.  These for the most part unelected and unaccountable elites frequently promote economic and social policies (e.g. runaway immigration; multiculturalism) in sharp opposition to public opinion.  They like progressive education proponent John Dewey hope to remold society with an egalitarian ideology, which has the effect of hyperatomizing the individual and tends to dissolute the traditional social bonds of civil society.  Thus as conservative sociologist Robert Nisbet points out, the intermediary institutions between individual and state (e.g. community, church, civil associations, etc.) are weakened and destroyed in the process.  The elites entrenched in the managerial state are philosophically the bastard children of Jean-Jacques Rousseau and John Stuart Mill.  They warmly embrace Mill's crude utilitarian ethic to legitimize their cow-prodding the citizenry through dubious social experiments and Rousseau's concept of a \\"general will\\" where the inept masses are the \\"forced to be free.\\"  They couple their elitism with behaviorist psychology to manipulate the masses.  The locus of legitimacy that the elites cling to is the apparent absence of an organized opposition.  Thus Gottfried surmises that the traditional polity of nineteenth century liberalism has been displaced by a new regime of administrative elites, plutocrats, judicial activists and social engineers, which collectively subject the population to therapeutic managerial rule.  In their world, political opposition is frequently classified as mentally ill or sick while the masses are made victims and dependentsof the managerial state.    Gottfried points out that what is today called liberalism has no fixed essence. But there is rather a great deal of discontinuity between classical liberalism, which emphasized the need to protect civil society from an encroaching and overbearing state, and conceptualized liberty as a negative prior restraint upon state action as opposed to  state-guaranteed positive liberty. Thus, the classical liberalism of Frédéric Bastiat and John Locke is no more. What passes for liberalism in the twentieth century is of an altogether different character, hence the title of the book: \\"After Liberalism.\\" The modern incarnation of liberalism perhaps may be distinguished by its other connotation of \\"progressivism,\\" though it does exist in continuity with this movement. Gottfried traces the modern liberalism of today to the nineteenth century liberalism of John Dewey, Jeremy Bentham, and John Stuart Mill.  He points out that one must contextualize liberalism to understand and trace its developments, and understand the present phenomenon of the managerial regime.    Gottfried offers a thoughtful analysis of the Populist Right's opposition to the therapeutic state in Europe and America. He gives a realistic look at the movement's strengths and weaknesses. He also makes it clear that there is resignation of a sizable part of those ostensibly on the 'Right' to the therapeutic managerial regime. For example, in the United States,the neoconservative camp composed largely of northeastern Catholics and former radical Jews from the Left, feel that the post-New Deal therapeutic state shouldn't be toppled, but we should merely utilize its machinery for purportedly 'conservative' ends. William J. Bennett endeavored to do just this as the national education czar. Since neoconservatism is the mainstream current on the American Right, we may infer the surrender of the American Right ipso facto to the managerial state. Gottfried remains somewhat dismal about hopes for mounting opposition to the managerial regime.  In his essay, \\"Reconfiguring the Political Landscape,\\" published in Spring of 1995 in Telos, Gottfried notes, \\"The restoration of genuine self-government requires structural decentralization and, above all, the derailing of the present political class. Without that, it is unlikely that there will be any accountability from insulated public administrators, rotating collectors of patronage, or judicial social engineers.\\" Thus a campaign to dismantle the managerial state would require removing the entrenched elite, perhaps impeaching and replacing judicial activists on the bench and outright dismantling of various bureaucracies of the managerial state. Such a campaign would run concomitant with a restoration of the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. A concomitant devolution revolution would devolve power back to the states and the people. Such a political change would require Americans to rediscover the principle of subsidiarity, which is to say, a limited government that governs closest to home and closest to the constituent, in the end, governs the best.	2003-06-18
US	51650080	R3HRBZ0HIMXIGT	1882926676	457097126	Wilhelm Ropke: Swiss Localist, Global Economist (Library of Modern Thinkers)	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Champion of Ordered Liberty, Tradition, and the Free-Market	Wilhelm Rpke is a brilliant German-born economic, social and political theorist, and perhaps my favorite amongst the \\"Austrian school.\\" He stands apart from his colleagues in that he thinks on a more humane level rejecting crude utilitarian calculations in favor of sound empirical reasoning. The crux of Rpke's economic thought is that the individual counts. This brilliant German economist of the \\"Austrian school\\" stood up to the centralizing and dehumanizing policies of the Nazis. Collectivist ideologies lay waste to civil society-destroying the intermediary institutions between individual and state-supplanting them with institutions to empower and enhance the state. Rpke recognized that allocating resources by the fair play of supply and demand is the most humane system and he was champion of the market economy. He was influential over economist Ludwig Erhard, who architected FRG's postwar economic plan, which emphasized free enterprise.    Rpke possessed some peculiarities in his lexicon that set in him apart from his colleagues, but his motive for such peculiarities was principled. Rpke rejected characterizing socialism as a \\"planned economy\\" since in his view a market economy is just an economy \\"planned\\" by entrepreneurs as opposed to state planners. He preferred the delineation of \\"market economy\\" to \\"capitalism,\\" since what often passed for capitalism in the early twentieth century was a large interventionist welfare state in a cozy lockstep relationship with big business monopolists. This was state corporatism not capitalism. Moreover, \\"capitalism\\" was, of course, coined by its chief critic Karl Marx and while the term captures the importance of capital to the market economy, it remains rather sterile. Capitalism frequently connotes a materialistic consumerist ideology or images of big business rather than a social framework based on the market economy. Rpke would attest that mammon is not the measure of all things. In Rpke's eyes, the intangibles-thatis to say faith, family and tradition-are the things that animate life and give it meaning.     Rpke recognizes the limitations of the market economy. Rpke possesses a remarkable sense of prudence and conservative sobriety in his thinking as it relates to the political economy. He rejected the idea of making economists into social engineers whether in the interests of \\"efficiency\\" or \\"social justice.\\" And amongst his \\"Austrian\\" colleagues like F.A. Hayek and Ludwig von Mises, he brought economics to a more humane level, rejecting crude utilitarian logic in favor of more humane empirical reasoning to defend the market economy. Furthermore, he refrains from the market idolatry that is so common to libertarian apologists for the free-market these days. Libertarians frequently espouse an ideology that can be summed up as \\"everything in the market, nothing outside the market.\\" (This, of course, turns Mussolini's mantra on its nose.) Rpke recognizes something that libertarians miss with their penchant for crude utilitarian calculations and their moral neutrality that often makes being an avowed \\"libertarian\\" indistinguishable from being a \\"libertine.\\" Many libertarians content themselves writing diatribes defending the \\"robber barrons\\" of the yesteryears while praising the colossal (e.g. Wal-Mart.) In their efforts to defend any and everything related to \\"the private sector,\\" they forget that the apparently sporadic interventions of the state often come at the behest of big business. Many big business capitalists content themselves with cozy public-private partnerships that translate to steady, predictable profits and a regulated environment that drowns small business competition. Big business possess a comparative advantage in that they can absorb the regulatory costs easier than their smaller competitors and perhaps influence the regulations. Rpke, however, scorns the colossal not in demagogic rhetoric, but in the rhetoric of an economist. He likewise sees \\"big business\\" as a concomitant pillar of \\"big government\\" and its regulatory state.     Underlying Rpke's humane economy is the idea that a market economy needs a prudent civil framework, widespread distribution of property, a strong entrepreneurial middle class and emphasis on parochial traditionalism. Anyway, Rpke itinerates the need for sound monetary and fiscal policy on the part of the state. He holds that the gold standard is the only real safeguard against the vicious boom-and-bust cycles of modern capitalist society. Rpke recognized that a market economy flourishes when tradition and community guard against the centralizing depredations of the state and big business. Rpke further emphasized the principle of subsidiarity, which in Europe today seems to survive only in that beautiful alpine island of parochialism-Switzerland-which itself is straddled by the colossal and cosmopolitan EU super-state as if it is ready to be consumed.     In the Humane Economy, Rpke surmised that: \\"The market economy, and with social and political freedom, can thrive only as part and under the protection of a bourgeois system. This implies the existence of a society in which certain fundamentals are respected and color the whole network of social relationships: individual effort and responsibility, absolute norms and values, independence based on ownership, prudence and daring, calculating and saving, responsibility for planning one's own life, proper coherence with the community, family feeling, a sense of tradition and the succession of generations combined with an open-minded view of the present and the future, proper tension between individual and community, firm moral discipline, respect for the value of money, the courage to grapple on one's own with life and its uncertainties, a sense of the natural order of things, and a firm scale of values.\\" To answer those who might sneer at this, Rpke nimbly replies, \\"Whoever turns his nose up at these things... suspects them of being 'reactionary'... may in all seriousness be asked what ideals he intends to defend against Communism without having to borrow from it.\\"    John Zmirak does a wonderful job profiling the life and work of a very brilliant man. Bravo! Rpke's ideas are remarkably original, but even so are analogous to that of conservative sociologist Robert Nisbet, Anglo-Catholic distributists like Chesterton and Belloc, and the Southern agrarians like Agar and Tate. You might check out their works as well, if Rpke interests you.	2003-06-13
US	51650080	R1IKYEHB4N9ZVY	189355418X	303138505	The Abolition of Britain: From Winston Churchill to Princess Diana	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	A Sweeping Indictment of Tony Blair's "Cool Britannia	~The Abolition of Britain: From Winston Churchill to Princess Diana~ goes to show that Britain has become a shadow of its former self. This is a hard hitting, no holds barred social criticism from journalist Peter Hitchens. Hitchens is quite a wordsmith and has taken to the task of putting Tony Blair's \\"Cool Britannia\\" under a microscope. The UK just like my beloved America is in the midst of a culture war. Britain's traditions, culture and cherished national institutions are being demonized and eroded from within by cultural Marxism... Hitchens is quite frank in admitting the British national spirit has lost its dynamo, because of the assent of the Americans on the world stage, which has become a political, cultural and economic superpower. Though, he tacitly admits Britain can't blame all of its woes on Hollywood and Yankees. It appears Gramsci's \\"long march through the institutions\\" has taken its toll, particularly in Britain. Frankly, Britain seems to be in a worst boat than the US now with its embrace of multiculturalism. Britain has been browbeaten into an imperial guilt complex where its cherished cultural contribution to the world is ridiculed as \\"racist\\" and \\"jingoistic.\\" Even Shakespeare is under attack which Hitchens makes light of. Hitchens also chronicles the attack on traditional morality and Christendom by liberal relativists. Britain's sexual revolution has dealt a harsh blow to the traditional family while a state hijacked by leftists has aided and abetted in the attack on the family. Take a walk on a London street, as I have, and you'll see phone booths littered with pornographic solicitations for prostitutes. And the societal stigmatism against immorality seems to have faded. The book really doesn't touch much on the immigration issue though... which might be worth addressing since London increasingly looks like one of its former colonies in terms of demographic make-up. Sadly, this book though reads like an obituary. Hitchens never offers a prescription for reversing the perilous course Britain has taken. For non-British readers, the book may get boring at times when Hitchens speaks of people, places and things that they aren't all familiar with and/or have trouble relating to. This diagnosis of a culture in chaos may be just for Britain, but a cultural war is being waged throughout the West. I give Abolition of Britain a (3.5/5.0 stars.)	2003-05-17
US	51650080	R2E6MCYE29OPYW	0684827891	983899838	From Plato To NATO: The Idea of the West and Its Opponents	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Brilliant Intellectual and Philosophical History of the West	~From Plato To Nato : The Idea Of The West And Its Opponents~ tackles a most complex and ambigious subject, the Idea of the West. Danish author David Gress offers a sweeping overview and defense of the both the \\"Western Idea and a \\"Western Identity.\\" The West has been under attack for last century by universalism, multiculturalism, nihilism, relativism and cultural Marxism. In the 1960s, the cultural Marxism of Gramsci's \\"long march,\\" which seeks to take over Western institutions and transform their Western character into something altogether different, began to make an aggressive march forward. The West is beseiged from within. Gress chronicles the Idea of the West and its opponents in this remarkable intellectual and philosophical history. Though, the West is not really one big idea, but a culmination of ideas in flux. As Richard Weaver said, \\"ideas have consequences.\\" What have been the consequences of these grand ideas in light of history? That is the focus of Gress' thesis.    Gress' chapter on Germanic Freedom and the Old Western Synthesis breaks with the New Liberal interpretation, which sees \\"an imaginary direct line connecting the modern West to the ancient Greeks... in which everything in between formed an orderly sequence culminating in liberal modernity. This version descended from the romantic and nineteenth-century cult of Greece and misunderstood both the Greeks and the West. It creating an idealized vision of Greece seen through the lens of a West defined as the heir of that idealized Greece.\\" Historians like Will Durant play a role in shaping this myth. The intervening history is sometimes treated as the dark ages, an aberration or a period of disenlightenment. Two World Wars with Germany as the aggressor helped reinforce this progressive myth of Hellenic enlightenment. Gress challenges this absurd school of historical interpretation and shows how the West is a unique culmination of Roman, Christian and Germanic culture. Thus, modern Western concepts to freedom are very much indebted to Germanic influence more so than classical Greek influence. Two Germanic tribes, namely the Angles and Saxons, brought the Germanic culture and its concepts of freedom to the front. One lingering question emerges about the idea of the West? Is it merely an abstract proposition of human liberty or community? Is there something more substantive that defines the West like the interplay of its vibrant cultures with Christianity?     Gress offers an astute analysis of the cultural crisis beseiging the West. First, in the twentieth-century, the West was overwhelmed with totalitarian threats, which Gress covers in the chapter entitled 'The Totalitarian Trap.' Secondly, the West is under attack for elitism and exclusivism by post-modernism, nihilism and relativism. Thirdly, in the aftermath of that crisis, a new secular universalism has emerged which seeks to supplant the West and create an altogether new civilization. The final chapters 'Battle in the Heartland' and 'The Failure of Universalism' draw the book to a fitting conclusion defending the Idea of the West. Gress offers a break from social scientists like Francis Fukuyama and Samuel Huntington that confuse Westernization and Universalization. \\"Universalism,\\" notes Gress, \\"never solved its fundamental dilemma of being both a Western idea - the idea that Westernization was global and irresistible - and an anti-Western idea - the idea that Western identity had fortunately come to an end and been superseded by a lowest common denominator of communications technology, capital markets, free trade and doses of American entertainment.\\"     It is clear that the West is under attack, but it is very much an attack from within. An appropriate response dictates the universalists within the intellectual nomenclature must be displaced by champions of the Western idea. The West can export \\"cultural capital,\\" to borrow a concept from Thomas Sowell, but one is gravely mistaken to think it tenableor desirable to 'Westernize' the whole world. Moreover, efforts to supposedly 'Westernize' the world may really be an exercise to 'Dewesternize' the West. The 'West' will itself die in the process of trying to universalize itself and an altogether different civilization will emerge. The West will only die if good men fall into a spirit of resignation and declare it inevitable.    Gress gives amazing clarity at discussing history, philosophy and the developments in the West. He defends the West with a trenchant pen. This is an erudite piece of scholarship. I also recommend Russell Kirk's The Roots of American Order.	2003-05-11
US	51650080	RNYYK5S0JEDGE	0060976918	923226445	Alien Nation: Common Sense About America's Immigration Disaster	Books	5	33	37	N	N	A compelling case to close the immigration floodgates	~Alien Nation: Common Sense About America's Immigration Disaster~   by National Review journalist Peter Brimelow is a welcomed refutation of America's open borders immigration policy. America is besieged by an onslaught of Third World immigration - illegal and legal - which is now and will continue to radically transform the American demographic. Moreover, the culture, institutions, religion, character and ethnic core of America will change in the process. National Review journalist Peter Brimelow, an immigrant himself of British extraction, makes a compelling case against the unmitigated tide of immigration on economic, environmental and (gulp) cultural grounds. America embraces an immigration myth, which doesn't mesh with history: this myth posits America to be the first 'universal nation.' Founding Father and Federalist John Jay, characterized Americans as \\"one united people - a people descended from the same ancestors, speaking the same language, professing the same religion, attached to the same principles of government, very similar in their manners and customs.\\" Also, Brimelow points out some of the more absurd economic arguments by immigration enthusiasts and the hypocrisy of nations that send us droves of their emmigrants while restricting their own immigration. Why do they do that? Because they're too poor, too populated and do not have the economic strength to handle the influx. Yet we're told in the U.S. immigration doesn't displace workers, it complements them. Shouldn't it work both ways. Hmmm... The conventional immigration mystique holds the immigrant to be hard-working, productive and an asset to the economy. Nonetheless, the stark economic facts suggest this is quite to the contrary. A greater percentage of immigrants are on welfare than natives. Immigrants make up one-quarter of the federal penitentiary inmates. Immigrants are seldom productive as given credit for considering their huge consumption of resources: education, health care, welfare andother taxpayer subsidized services.    Advocates of open borders immigration who are alarmed at the multicultural Balkan stratification that is common to the new influx of immigrants may be missing the point if they think assimilation or assent to an elusive \\"America creed\\" is even tenable. Given the motley crue of Aztalan enthusiasts that loathe Anglos and Jihad warriors swimming onto our shores, the idea of assimilation being remotely feasible must be swept to the wayside. The new wave of immigrants by and large have no intent of embracing the culture and ways of America. Not surprisingly, the future of America looks bleak with a stratified, hostile, multi-ethnic populace isolated in Balkanized enclaves. Middle America is alienated by the power elites who ignore their cries to shut off the immigration floodgates despite the unpopularity of immigration whether legal or illegal. If America doesn't address the issue soon, the traditional culture, institutions and faith, that America so cherishes will be drowned out. The 1965 Immigration Act with its open borders policy, its preference for Third World immigrants and lax enforcement of illegal entries needs to be scrapped. Somehow, I doubt the Brave New World taking shape will have any reverence for Christianity or the republican institutions of the Anglo-American founders in 2050. Perhaps, Pat Buchanan is right and a moratorium or freeze on immigration is in order.    ...	2003-05-11
US	51650080	R3VMUQIY7320BB	0895261596	873277344	A Republic, Not an Empire: Reclaiming America's Destiny	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Superb Analysis of American Foreign Policy Past and Present	~A Republic, Not an Empire: Reclaiming America's Destiny~ is antidote to the policies of imperial empire-builders. Buchanan offers a sobering reassessment of our present foreign policy and its mindless interventionism in the name of empire. He does so in light of history. At the onset, he critiques some of our more recent interventions overseas. He offers some future war scenarios, which are errily prophetic in light of the post-9/11 world. To give a backdrop to his thesis, he offers an astute recap of American foreign policy and wars from the eighteenth century in a brilliant narrative. He proves that the republic of our forefathers has been abandoned. The U.S. has ventured into the world to become a policemen of sorts doing the legwork for internationalists and this is hardly in America's best interest. John Quincy Adams once avowed, \\"America does not go abroad in search of monsters to destroy. She is a well-wisher to the freedom of all and a vindicator only of her own.\\" America really dived headlonged into its' obessesive interventionism with the assent of Woodrow Wilson and his grandiose globalist vision of a New World Order guided by the League of Nations.       Buchanan is wrongly smeared for his account of the America First movement, which opposed WWII. For one thing, FDR did much to antagonize the Japanese in the Phillipines. (See the New Dealer's War and Day of Deceit.) Though, Hitler always posed a long-term threat to his Western neighbors including the U.S. Most importantly, however, the assent of Hitler could have been avoiding altogether were it not for U.S. intervention in WWI. The U.S. should have heeded the wisdom of the founders and avoided European entanglements in the Great War. To substantiate this point, I recommend reading _The Myth of the Great War_ by John Mosier and _The Illusion of Victory: America in World War I_ by Thomas Fleming. These books make convincing cases that were it not for American intervention in WWI, Germany would probably have won the Great War after a long stalemate. France and Britain would sue for peace, and perhaps France would have had to make some minor territorial concessions. If this was the case, Germany would not likely have been so destabilized economically and politically. Moreover, politics in Weimar Germany during the 1920's would have never turned so extreme; it tediously bounced between the prospects of a Communist Red Revolution which happened for a short time in Bavaria and the Brown Revolution of Nazism which eventually swept the nation. Hitler flew in on a red carpet with his demagogic rhetoric, which appealed to Germany's bitterness and anti-Versailles sentiment. Critics can snear should have, could have, would have... but they're just missing the point. So, the proverbial wisdom goes, if we do not learn from history, we're doomed to repeat it.       Buchanan is hardly offering a pacifistic tome, but rather makes it clear America needs a strong defense based on policy of strategic independence. This was the foreign policy that the founding fathers envisioned. Putting America First has become apparently unfashionable and immoral, which explains why Buchanan has so many vehement critics. The most outspoken of which have probably never read his book. President George Washington avowed, \\"Honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none, I deem [one of the] essential principles of our government and, consequently, [one] which ought to shape its administration,\\" and this is the embodiment of the foreign policy advocated by Buchanan. Buchanan articulates and substantiates the need for realigning America's foreign policy with that of the founders. The Federalists set the decorum with the Neutrality Act of 1798. Buchanan makes a compelling case for adhering to armed neutrality and stategic independence. This would include the following: 1) disentangling ourselves from the UN, NATO and various globalist commitments; 2) strengthening our military and defending America First with the bulk of our troops on our border and in our hemisphere; 3) and avoiding the 20th century's obsession with reckless intervention abroad; 4) stripping the Presidency of war powers usurped from Congress and codified in the War Powers Act of 1973, which sought to limit the Presidency's abuses, but at the same time codified and legitimized past unconstitutional precedent.	2003-05-10
US	51650080	R3BEFTEQFZ4AS6	1560004274	48790400	The Paleoconservatives: New Voices of the Old Right	Books	5	18	19	N	N	An anthology of Old Right political thought	Joseph Scotchie notes that the term 'Paleoconservatism' arose in the 1980's, perhaps in opposition to the rise of the 'neoconservatism', which is the so called conservatism of the Beltway Right. 'Neoconservatism' was first articulated as an ideology by Irving Kristol who characterized himself as a \\"liberal mugged by reality.\\" Neocons essentially accept the FDR New Deal, the Welfare State, an interventionist foreign policy, open borders and cosmpolitian internationalism, whereas paleoconservatives reject these instruments of big government.<br />Paleoconservatism resonates with Middle America and stands opposed to not only liberalism, but to the pseudoconservatism of the Northeastern Establishment and the Beltway, which acquiesces with much of liberalism's vision for America. Neocons characterize themselves as realists and concede big government is here to stay, we just to need to capture its machinery and utilize it for our ends.  Hence, the virtual abandonment of the idea lauded by Republicans in the 1980s to abolish the federal Dept. of Education.  Now, in 21st century, they've told the Democrats we'll match your federal education appropriation and double it.  Is it any wonder the Left is winning in this game of tug and war, neocons used to be just 2 decades behind liberals on what was acceptable.  And today, well... sigh...  <br />The Old Right traces its early twentieth century roots to New Deal opposition. It was a diverse group to say the least, including classical republicans, populists, paleolibertarians, Midwestern agrarians and Southern traditionalists. There are schisms amongst modern day paleoconservatives over issues like free trade, however, those who articulate a free trade position often due so with reservations and remained opposed to free trade treaties and the WTO such as Congressman Ron Paul of Texas.<br />Featured are essays from Russell Kirk, the father of twentieth century conservatism, who addresses the question of tradition and the relevanceof class, status, religion and culture to American life. Murray Rothbard offers a tongue-in-cheek look at Life in the Old Right, which gives a window into the anti-FDR New Deal opposition. Populist economist William R. Hawkins defends a protectionist trade policy and sets out to prove the destructiveness of a free trade policy in his essay the Anti-History of Free Trade Idelogy. James Burnham, author of Suicide of the West, offers an essay on 'the managerial society.' Conservative thinker Allan Carlson offers his thoughts on education, home and family. Other essayist featured are Paul Gottfried, Richard Weaver and Clyde Wilson.<br />The Paleoconservatives captures the essence of an authentic American conservatism. Certainly it has a divergent cast of characters with varying positions. However, their common commitment to classical republicanism, parochial regionalism and federalism generally bridges the gap. They hardly seek to play the all or nothing game the neoconservatives play in trying to articulate a 'general will' for the whole nation, but rather favor devolution, states' rights and a doctrine of federalism commensurate with original intent. Paleoconservatives aren't afraid to put America First, despite being denounced as xenophobes, reactionaries and various other slurs.	2003-05-03
US	51650080	R2E1V4897I35NO	188292665X	692493590	Securing Democracy: Why We Have An Electoral College	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Perhaps it could be better titled 'Securing the Republic'	~Securing Democracy: Why We Have an Electoral College~ is a brilliant anthology of essays, which defend the Electoral College. Contrary to popular belief, America was never founded as a \\"democracy,\\" but rather as a constitutional federal republic with limits set not only on the powers of government but on that of majority rule. The founders sought to check the excesses of democracy, and the 'one-man, one-vote' ethos is not even remotely accurate in describing the nature of our representative republic. Elections within the federal system are in fact state elections as it was the states that ratified the Constitution. It is the states that ultimately decide on whether the Constitution may be amended. The founders designed the federal system with a great deal of ingenuity and profoundly realistic understanding of human nature. The Electoral College is designed to check the excesses of democracy and is one of the cornerstones of the federal system, which keeps the republic from succombing to majoritarian tyranny. In a republic, the rule of law reigns supreme, not the tumultous and turbulent changing passions of the people. Contributors include a wide cast of characters from across the political spectrum. Senator Mitch McConnell whom I had the honor of campaigning for in Kentucky writes a brilliant introduction to this book. Even Democrat Daniel Patrick Moynihan offers an astute essay on the Electoral College and shows how it so remarkably captures Calhoun's principle of concurrent majorities. Gary Gregg offers an informative essay on the origins and meaning of this remarkable republican institution. The Electoral College may be dismissed as an anachronistic institution of the horse-and-buggy era, but when properly understood, it testifies to the genius of the founders and the federal system they left us. As Ben Franklin declared, we have a republic if we can keep it.	2003-04-26
US	51650080	R3KWDK19B1W4A2	1560009276	401110954	Death by Government: Genocide and Mass Murder Since 1900	Books	3	86	101	N	N	Big Government: Catalyst for the blood-soaked 20th century	~Death by Government~ touches on a subject that is often ignored that over 150,000,000 people have been killed in the 20th century, not in wars, but in democidal and genocidal purges by statist and totalitarian regimes. Beyond the detailed statistical analysis, some of the conclusions drawn seem to miss the mark. Have we really learned any lessons from history? Rommel makes an observation that more democracy is the answer. Is this really the most prudent conclusion we can draw. However, given that every dictatorship clings to a populist mass ideology (e.g. Hitler's Volk ideology, Qadhafi's Jamahiriya or state of the masses) to give it a locus of legitimacy, can any lessons be learned from the 20th century where democracy is held to be sacrosanct? Stalin committed heinous crimes in the name of the people. The Weimar Germany of the 1920's was said to have the most democratic constitution in all of Europe, yet it could not fortify the rule of law and the avoid lawlessness and dissent into political radicalism. Shortly thereafter the Nazis rose to fill the vacuum of power. Total democracy has a tendency to yield to the most totalitarian systems, because it runs roughshod over the rule of law and some demagogue rises while espousing a general will for the masses. Hitler loathed federalism, because its essence was a diffusion of power, and it was anemical to securing his party and ideology in place. Perhaps we should recognize that a relatively decentralized federal system such as that of Switzerland or the U.S. is the key to avoiding the horrors of the authoritarian system since only centralized statist regimes proved themselves capable of getting away with so much mass murder. The great crisis of liberal democracy has been its' unfettered faith in the people and its' rosy views of human nature. This ideology of democratism views democracy as an end in itself. Not surprisingly, there has been a drive in the name of democracy for more centralization and erosion of checks and balances which hinder the implementation of that alleged \\"will of the people.\\" Thus, Rummel's assertions that we need more democracy may be missing the mark when trying to assess what we can learn from history. Rediscovering the federal principle of subsidiarity, which is in essence a difusion of power remains the key to structuring viable political systems that are most conducive to freedom are less likely to be plagued by corruption and historically the least likely to subject its people or any other nation to mass murder. If one retorts that this what Rummel means in his conception of democracy than he certainly fails to define it.<br /><br /> So, if Rummel's simplistic thesis is that more \\"democracy\\" is the answer to avoid repeating the blood-soaked 20th century's mistakes than we've learned nothing. The 20th century was the most democratic of all, but political systems failed to fortify themselves against its excesses, which gave rise to dictators, demagogues and populist mass ideology that ran roughshod over the rule of law and individual liberty. Erik Von Kuehnelt-Leddihn avowed, \\"Fifty-one percent of a nation can establish a totalitarian regime, suppress minorities and still remain democratic.\\" This book is an otherwise intriguing reference on a sad series of episodes in human history.and balances which hinder the implementation of that alleged \\"will of the people.\\" Thus, Rummel's assertions that we need more democracy may be missing the mark when trying to assess what we can learn from history. Rediscovering the federal principle of subsidiarity, which is in essence a difusion of power remains the key to structuring viable political systems that are most conducive to freedom are less likely to be plagued by corruption and historically the least likely to subject its people or any other nation to mass murder. If one retorts that this what Rummel means in his conception of democracy than he certainly fails to define it.<br /><br /> So, if Rummel's simplistic thesis is that more \\"democracy\\" is the answer to avoid repeating the blood-soaked 20th century's mistakes than we've learned nothing. The 20th century was the most democratic of all, but political systems failed to fortify themselves against its excesses, which gave rise to dictators, demagogues and populist mass ideology that ran roughshod over the rule of law and individual liberty. Erik Von Kuehnelt-Leddihn avowed, \\"Fifty-one percent of a nation can establish a totalitarian regime, suppress minorities and still remain democratic.\\" This book is an otherwise intriguing reference on a sad series of episodes in human history.	2003-04-26
US	51650080	R3LD6P4SZ4ONIT	0060197765	907746676	From Third World to First: The Singapore Story - 1965-2000	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Interesting look at an Asian Tiger	Overall, an interesting book if you follow politics and international relations. Like Manuel Noriega (whose biography I also read,) KY Lee comes across as a little arrogant and full of hubris. Granted, he has far more political tact, leadership ability and statesmanship than the dethroned Noriega. Lee chronicles his efforts at nation building through establishing a military and police to efforts at laying down infrastructure. He explains his endeavors at brokering trade ties to the West. Much of the book is spent focusing on foreign policy with various corners of the world. He gives particular attention to relations with surrounding nations in Southeast Asia, China, the U.S., Japan, Britain and Europe.<br />He demonstrates a great deal of ingenuity in leadership and public policy, despite his authoritarian traits. In some respects, he exhibits some socialistic traits (e.g. national housing plan, state airline and telecom, state-owned hospitals) in his approach to politics, yet he has some rather astute and brilliant ideas on political economy (e.g. individual savings accounts, medical savings accounts) that market-oriented conservatives in the West long for. He outlines his ideas and implemented policies with clarity and detail. Perhaps, one of his most brilliant displays of leadership and grasping macroeconomic principles is his implementation of a worker savings scheme or mandatory IRA as opposed to the costly pay-as-you-go Social Security schemes of the West. Just as Chile's system had done, Singapore suceeded in spurring capital investment. The savings scheme allowed workers to build equity instead of relying on intergenerational wealth redistribution schemes like Social Security. The problem with pay-as-you-go state pension schemes is that the capital is not invested, but disbursed immediately to recepients and this only after administrative overhead for the bureaucracy is docked. It only represents a national liability not an asset. He rightly understood thathomeowners make better stewards than renters and sought to increase home ownership through various measures such as forced savings.<br />His authoritarian brand of capitalism and leadership has had a positive role in Singapore's economic development. Singapore's commitment to the rule of law and order has kept it free from corruption and the so called crony capitalism (e.g. the nepotism and corruption of the Marcos' and the Suharto's.) All things considered, Kuan Yew Lee exhibits extraordinary leadership ability in a seeming ordinary world. People can criticize Lee for having made Singapore into little more than a thinly disguised dictatorship with an authoritarian brand of capitalism and a stern rule of law society, but most so called democracies in the world afford their citizens considerably less economic freedom than Singapore. While democracies relish in their so called personal freedom, they seem to think everything is up for a vote whether an individual's property or the fruits of his labor. Moreover, democratizing has become analogous with socializing. Singapore is by no means a free-market utopia, but Singapore's public sector only taps about 15% of the national economy. Perhaps, the West could get some economics lessons from Singapore.	2003-03-28
US	51650080	R32FPG5NHEIPN6	0226463893	527355615	001: The Founders' Constitution: Major Themes	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Piviotal resource for ascertaining framer's intent	This is a monumental work, which I think is a must have for student of jurisprudence and constitutional law.  I found it incredibly useful as a law student in studying the debates and understanding developments in the common law tradition and constitutional history since the inception of the Republic.  It is well organized, and though their is some duplication of materials, it serves the purpose of making the reference more accessible and user-friendly rather than having  a cross-referencing scheme.  Perhaps, the other user might be right in pointing out that the CD-ROM might be better suited for some users.  I have an affinity for the printed matter and the organization makes things relatively easy to find.  Though, it is available online for free.	2003-03-27
US	51650080	R1F6R7V5W3Q0KF	019864227X	13127223	The Pocket Oxford Latin Dictionary	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Concise and portable...	This is a fairly useful Latin Dictionary... I got it, because I thought it would be useful as a student of law and the classics. Though, perhaps its overarching merit is simply its portability.  Usefulness and comprehensiveness are sacrificed to the utilitarian value of small size.  Jurists (e.g. legal scholars) and Medical professionals might find it lacks too many key Latin terms relevant to their discipline.	2002-12-29
US	51650080	R134XBTIFT1L6D	074320123X	217916880	Reagan, In His Own Hand: The Writings of Ronald Reagan that Reveal His Revolutionary Vision for America	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Interesting Window into the Mind of Reagan	This collection of writings offers an interesting look into the mind of Ronald Reagan before his Presidency. (Most of the writings and speeches were compiled from the 1960's and 1970's.) His policy proposals and formulations are interesting and his common sense grasp of economics and foreign policy is inspiring.  This is a must for any admirer of the Gipper. Reagan was a visionary who stuck to his guns and principles- and preached free-markets and limited government when everyone else hailed state interventionism and big government.	2002-12-26
US	51650080	R1T2G67X0U4ZM9	0743500334	269605927	Speaking My Mind	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Remembering The Great Communicator	Reagan was a great President simply from the perspective of his innate leadership ability and masterful skill as an orator.  This collection of speeches is quite compelling and an excellent reference for admirers of the honorable Ronald Reagan.  I also recommend Reagan In His Own Hand, which is a little more focused on the pre-Presidential Reagan during his stint as a private citizen and Governor of California.	2002-12-26
US	51650080	R1JO304VBTTMFR	006093350X	12468432	Ronald Reagan: The Great Communicator	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Bringing Back the 1980's	Okay- This is what is aptly dubbed a coffee table book... It isn't a thorough biography, but rather a concise biographical pictorial of the Reagan Presidency. As a fan of Reagan, I've already got quite a few books on the Gipper from an American Life to Dutch.  It is a nice addition to my library, and recaptures the nostaligia of the 1980's with its vivid pictures.  However, if you're looking for substance and informational content than I'd recommend Ronald Reagan by Dinesh D'Souza or Ronald Reagan's autobiography, An American Life.	2002-12-26
US	51650080	R1OP6NYD022UBJ	0684848236	357972578	Ronald Reagan: How an Ordinary Man Became an Extraordinary Leader	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An Intriguing Look into the Character and Mind of Reagan	Reagan was America's fortieth president and perhaps the greatest President of the 20th century. D'Souza chronicles his ascendency to the President as he climbs from his youth to his career as an actor to state politics in California. This is a unique biography since it offers a window into the thoughts and perspectives of Reagan on leadership and policy. His foreign policy ideas and Cold War actions are magnified in 'Confronting the Evil Empire.' Reagan stood in the face of communist tyranny and led the free world. He boldly and rightly declared that the Soviet system was EVIL! The chapter 'A Walk on the Supply Side' is an insightful look to Reagan's bold opposition to the tried and failed Keynesian policies of the Left, which was discredited with the stagflation of the 1970's. He embraced the ideas of free-market economists and sought to roll back the Welfare State. Though, in all reality, the needs of defense and a Democratic Congress that wouldn't budge too much on social spending perhaps compromised his agenda. With respect to Reagan's legacy, perhaps it would be a mistake to say that the 'Reagan Revolution' was fulfilled in the meaningful sense of being commensurate with its original conception. Compromise after compromise was made! His economic advisor, David Stockman, points to some of the failures and realities that stopped or at the very least skewed it from its free-market, limited government principles in his book 'The Triumph of Politics.' Perhaps, wrestling the Beltway Machine was a formidable task that perhaps no President can tackle alone with a supportive Congress. All things considered, this is a monumental work in the Reagan biography collection just despite it's brevity.	2002-12-26
US	51650080	R2FCZ7J1UC1ER1	0785258523	75986590	The Reformation Study Bible: The Word That Changes Lives - The Faith That Changed the World (NKJV)	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Sola Fide- A worthy heir to the Geneva Bible	Through God's grace and continued study of the Scriptures, I become acquainted with the truth of the sound Reformed doctrine not so long ago. I set out to find a study Bible to replace my various other study Bibles of the Arminian theological persuassion. I had originally intended to get a facsimile of an old Geneva Bible for the Reformed notes and commentary of John Calvin. Though, the cost was prohibitive and its archaic English prove impractical for regular consultation and study. I eventually got Calvin Commentaries on CD-ROM- while incredibly valuable-it still left me longing for a practical study Bible. Fortunately, I found out about the Reformation Study Bible. In the tradition of Reformers like Calvin, Luther, Owen and Spurgeon it combines the lucid and clear translation of the New King James version with reference notes and a concordance affirming the tenets of the Reformed Christian faith. I first heard of this study Bible after becoming acquainted with R.C. Sproul's ministry on the Internet. This study Bible has been a godsend for me. It elaborates on the doctrines of grace and possesses an incredibly useful concordance and is complimented by an appendix of articles explaining the five points of the Reformed faith. It makes frequent reference to the Westminister Confession of Faith, which is a nice touch. Perhaps my one qualm I have about this book is that the pages are too thin. It took me some time to find a highlighter/marker that wouldn't bleed through the pages.	2002-08-12
US	51650080	R38TMXMD6DXFP1	091061489X	144097711	Taxation & Confiscation (The Freeman Classics Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Masterpiece on the Political Economy	Taxation and Confiscation is yet another great Freeman Classic for your political economy bookshelf. It features a selection of essays by various luminaries addressing various facets of economic issues surrounding taxation, government fiscal policy, deficit spending and the regulatory state. Among the distinguished contributors are: economist Hanns F. Sennholz; historian Clarence Carson; political writer and theologian Gary North. Carson offers a witty tract on how the &quot;power to tax is the power to destroy.&quot; North tackles the issue of school vouchers. Robert Higgs and John Hood offer two insightful essays that elaborate why the culmination of public sector growth (federal, state and local) has long outstripped real economic growth and is putting a burdensome strain on the nation's economic health. Eric Brodin tackles the myth of the Swedish Welfare State and the &quot;third way between capitalism and socialism&quot; myth. Other essays deal with issues such as confiscatory taxation caused by 'double taxation', tax equity, the middle-class tax-squeeze and how various public policies have stifled capital formation. It is a must for the free-market apologist. Though, if you don't already own any books from the Foundation from Economic Education than I recommend you at least get the book 'Cliches of Politics' first.	2002-07-25
US	51650080	RX5HB2QYQ05DI	0804118752	956752160	Dead Center: A Marine Sniper's Two-Year Odyssey in the Vietnam War	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Real Page Turner	Dead Center is a compelling book about an ordinary 18-year old kid from middle America faced with extraordinary situations. The circumstances that led up to his Marine sniper job are interesting. His account of boot camp is interested. It's straightforward, easy to read and hard to put down. Kugler doesn't play himself as a hero, just as a kid making a transformation to a good soldier. The book, however, is full of explicitive language.	2002-07-17
US	51650080	R2OAG2JGZ2FQGT	039300063X	970429791	The Progressive Presidents: Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Lyndon B. Johnson	Books	4	6	7	N	N	I like 'The Progressive Presidents...' (The book that is.)	John Blum's short, but informative book on the Progressive Presidents presents a fairly balanced picture of the presidency after the ascendency of progressivism. The author admits he is a &quot;conventional liberal&quot; who &quot;grew up&quot; with the FDR administration while he &quot;admired&quot; FDR. However, he raises many important questions about the &quot;Imperial Presidency&quot; that this men invented. He admits that in the wake of welfare-statism after LBJ has &quot;provoked reconsideration.&quot; This reconsideration owes itself to the progressive presidents continiously testing, exceeding, breaching and redefining constitutional and customary limits to power. For an avowed liberal to even concede that the Presidency at the behest of progressive liberalism has perhaps gone awry is a watershed event.	2002-07-17
US	51650080	R2829XDH2SXFB7	0684863316	419002241	Alexander Hamilton, American	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An Intuitive Portrait of an American Founder	~Alexander Hamilton, American~ presents a well-rounded narrative history of a most influential American founding father and our nation's First Secretary of the Treasury. Brookhiser paints a portrait of Hamilton with vivid detail. Moreover, he offers a lively narrative of Alexander's life from his heyday as a teen prodigy in St. Croix to his fateful duel with Aaron Burr. Though, this book has drawn criticism foremost for its brevity, it manages to develop an intricate, lively and all too human portrait of Hamilton. Hamilton's administrative genius, economic savvy and statesmanship have masked his humble origins. Brookhiser brings young Alexander to life. He chronicles his practical education as a clerk and his exodus to America for a more erudite education. From there, Hamilton emerges as a patriot, a soldier whose wartime service breaks the tenacity of his youth, as a jurist and a statesman for the fledging republic. Likewise, his ambitious tenure as Treasury Secretary and his struggles with the Jeffersonian Republicans are chronicled. This biography-like Hamilton's life-is cut short by a solemn and foreboding chapter entitled 'Death.'     For the curious, Brookhiser is a neoconservative journalist of the National Review variety and leaves little doubt that he is a Hamiltonian. Some might complain a Hamiltonian doesn't make for objectivity, but I doubt Jefferson's biographer Dumas Malone, (a thorough-going Jeffersonian,) would have gave any semblance of objectivity if he wrote Hamilton's bio. While questions of objectivity abound, I think one has to take an interest and perhaps have a perculiar affinity for their subject, especially if that subject is a founding father. (Myself, I'm more of a Madisonian.)    Though, having read several books on Hamilton, I can't bring myself to write this book off as superficial as so many reviewers have. Brookhiser, however, ambitious has too many books to compete with and doesn't bat an eye as claimant to Hamilton's 'best biographer' by any stretch of the imagination. Instead of mincing words about the succinct nature of this book, I offer other recommendations to suit the discerning reader's fancy. The New Deal liberal Broadus Mitchell offers an informative two-volume and condensed biography on Hamilton. Forrest McDonald's _Alexander Hamilton: A Biography_ delves deep into Hamilton's political career and statesmanship adding depth and perspectives on the _Hamiltonian Political Economy_. Clinton Rossiter's work- _Alexander Hamilton and the Constitution_remains the best guide to Hamilton's constitutional thought. Of course, _The Young Hamilton_ by James Thomas Flexner gives depth to Hamilton's formative years.	2002-07-14
US	51650080	R2TYCMSVWPKGO	081170100X	8211908	American Counterrevolution: A Retreat from Liberty, 1783-1800	Books	1	9	39	N	N	Trashing History with Left-Wing Revisionist Non-Sense	This book presupposes that the foundation of the American Revolution apparently resembled the pretentious Jacobin egalitarianism of the French Revolution. With its highbrow aurora of seriousness and countless pages, it purports that the 1776 Revolution was about woman's suffrage and black liberation. It than shows that these 'evil dead white guys' (e.g. the founding fathers) came along and somehow betrayed all of this. Tise just regrets that the Jacobin fervor that befell colonial Haiti didn't hit home in America.<br />What is more striking to me is the fact that right-wingers who read books by Thomas Fleming and Patrick Buchanan are apparently buying this book as indicating by the related purchases. They need to do their homework and read some reviews before throwing away [money] on this book. You could, at least peruse this book at your library if my warning doesn't suffice. You'll see that this tome is little more than shallow politically correct revisionism in the spirit of Arming America: The Origins of a National Gun Culture, which rewrites American history and mythologizes the Second Amendment through fraudulent scholarship, hyperbole and fanciful conjecture.	2002-07-14
US	51650080	R3SGBGMLNCCF0G	091396686X	445645319	Freedom and Federalism	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Federalism: A Distinctively American Contribution to Political Science	~Freedom and Federalism~ is an intriguging perspective of federalism than and now... Felix Morley was a prominent conservative journalist and editor for Human Events. Freedom and Federalism was first published in 1950's and offers an honest assessment of federalism since the inception of the American Republic in 1787. \\"Federalism,\\" affirms Morley, \\"is a distinctively American contribution to political art,\\" which makes the reconciliation of liberty and order possible. He also critiques 'democracy' and 'democratism' with a brutally honest and prudent wisdom, which makes Morley a brilliant citizen-statesmen in the spirit of the founding fathers.    \\"In Morley's eyes,\\" the cover notes, \\"a government of free men is like a strong-standing arch. The solid stones of which it is built is called freedom. Neither the building blocks of individual liberty nor the arch of freedom will stand secure without the keystone of federalism. It is federalism that holds up the arch. It is federalism that makes possible the preservation of both liberty and freedom. And the name of the arch is Republic-not Democracy.\\" This book affirms that America was founded as a Republic, not a Democracy. Edmund Randolph avows, \\"The general object,\\" of the constitutional convention, was \\"to provide a cure for the evils under which the United States labored; that in tracing these evils to their origin, every man had found it in the turbelence and follies of democracy.\\" \\"The U.S. was conceived and framed as a constitutionally limited federal republic with limits not only on the powers of government but on that of majority rule. Succinctly stated, the fundamental purpose of government was to protect life, liberty and property. The founders were weary of unchecked democracy, majoritarian tyranny and the redistributive threat that democracy posed to property rights. In an absolute democracy, everything is potentially up for a vote, including your God-given natural rights. Under republican government, the rule of law is supreme and the rights of the individual are paramount. Thus, as Morley recognizes, the founders made few concessions to democracy and sought to localize it. Even Thomas Jeffesron, purported to be the most 'democratic' of the founders recognizes that \\"A democracy [is] the only pure republic, but impracticable beyond the limits of a town.\\"     Morley analyzes Rousseau's concept of the \\"general will,\\" which is a pretense for legitimizing majoritarian tyranny under the auspices of 'totalitarian democracy.' He points out how the design of federalism thwarts a general will. Morley also has no delusions of grandeur about federalism today. (Note that this book was written in the 1950's.) He rightly recognizes a steady erosion of original intent and the principles of federalism has led to centralization and a precariously unconstitutional balance of power between the federal government and states. It is little wonder that the word 'federal' has taken on a pejorative context while exemplifying centralization and bureaucracy. The word 'Federal' was derived from the Latin 'Foedus,' which translates to 'covenant' and thus 'Federalism' and 'Constitutionalism' goes hand in hand.     The culmination of big government machinations such as the Civil War, Reconstruction, New Deal, and the Great Society has usurped the constitutional order and has in many cases reduced the states to mere creatures of the federal government. Morley offers insights on historical developments such as the the Civil War, the problems presented by the 14th Amendment for jurisprudence, the nationalizing effects of commercialization, war preparation, empire building which began after the Civil War and went full circle under Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson.	2002-07-09
US	51650080	R35G39LPCFXFGN	0865970505	464751250	Essays in Religion, Politics, and Morality (Selected Writings of Lord Acton, Vol 3) (v. 3)	Books	4	33	34	N	N	Thought-Provoking Essays, Religious and Political...	Acton is probably most known for his quote: \\"Power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely.\\" John Emerich Edward Dalberg Acton (1804-1902) was born to a wealthy English aristocrat and become a brilliant scholar. He was Victorian England's most renowned historian and political thinker. Acton was a Roman Catholic educated under the Catholic historian Ignaz von Dollinger in Munich. Acton found the idea of Papal Infallibility to be appalling. To Acton, holding the Vatican on a pedestal as the infallible arbiter of religious and moral conscience was detrimental to the cause of liberty. Acton was a classical liberal who seems to possess the prescriptive wisdom and prudence of Edmund Burke when it comes to politics. <br />This collection of essays and commentary features a selection of Acton's thoughts on the interrelation between church and state, religion, politics and morality. The first section features essays on Liberal Catholicism; the second section includes Acton's commentary on the Vatican Council; and the third section features Perspectives on History, Religion and Morality. The fourth and final section features an intriguing collection of quotations on various topics like Liberty, Conscience, Church, Democracy, Federalism, Nationality, Property and Socialism to name a few. This final section makes the book very useful resource for Acton's witticisms. I don't wholeheartedly embrace all of the ideas of Acton, but this book is nonetheless an eye-openning window into European Old Whig political thought during the 19th century.	2002-06-16
US	51650080	R3JTO7QFLDAUPP	0060956410	889503795	Wheelock's Latin, 6th Edition	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Overall, it is a good grammar study guide to Latin	Wheelock's Latin is a good primer on Latin grammar and syntax. Learning Latin opens a whole new window to Roman culture and literature. Granted, I'm still struggling along in my syntax and vocabulary. If you're studying the classics or Latin than I'd recommend you get this book. It is, I understand this text is the most popular introductory Latin textbook in high school and college and for good reason. Also, if you're a new student of Latin than I recommend you get a good companion dictionary... perhaps the Oxford Pocket Dictionary to Latin will suffice for beginners.	2002-06-14
US	51650080	R15FW9VHN4SQVC	0785813594	265598004	The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Military Aircraft: 1914 to the Present	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The Ultimate Military Aviation Reference	A must for aviation enthusiasts. I've got several dated editions of Angellucci's aviation reference books. I think no aviation enthusiast should be without a copy of this most excellent reference book. The color pictures come to life, and it is packed with relavent statistics, data, and pull-charts which are teeming with information. The only criticism I have is that after glancing through this most recent edition in a book store... it doesn't seem to have any new aircraft. The Joint Strike Fighter and the F-22 Raptor come to mind.	2002-05-30
US	51650080	R11RC8DJ6VQVU4	0710623151	63911985	Jane's Fighting Ships 2001-2002	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Definitive Reference to the Navies of the World	This is what the navy brass utilize in studying the ships and navies of the world. It is a thorough and excellent reference to the bluewater navies of the world, but high on the price tag. It is packed full of relavent statistics, data and information for any military enthusiast. Admittedly, my review refers to a slightly older edition. But Jane's consistently proves itself to be better and better year after year.	2002-05-30
US	51650080	R1ORNVLFPD5OAB	0679432272	450519607	America's Prisoner: The Memoirs of Manuel Noriega	Books	3	10	16	N	N	Noriega, the hapless victim of American Imperialism?	I have to admit the book is rather enjoyable to read, incredibly interesting and hard to put down. Noriega comes across as very charismatic, but thats how Eisner intended to write him up. While one might see that there was some erroneous CIA propaganda in the whole Panamanian-Noriega Affair, it isn't nearly as prevalent as Noriega would have you believe. The CIA's timing is suspect, but what better time to air out the bad laundry of a drug-dealing dictator than when you want to bring him down. Moreover, Manuel Noreiga and Eisner are no less apt to making propaganda of their own. The Panamanian demagogue would have you believe he is wholly a victim of the evil American imperial capitalists. Eisner more or less tries to portray poor Noriega as the hapless and 'innocent' victim of American imperialism. Noriega, the pox-marked dictator, derided as \\"Pineapple Face\\" by his detractors, may never have amassed the massive fortune alleged by the CIA... but he was on the take so to speak. He has always been for sale to the highest bidder whether the Medellin drug cartel or the CIA. Since his early days as a CIA spy, he was selling out intel on his fellow students at a Peruvian Military Academy in the 1950's. Noriega mastered the art of double-dealing... and can fairly be described as a double-agent, if not a \\"triple\\" or \\"quadruple\\" agent. He was taking payoffs from drug dealers (as most politicians in the region do) and this isn't just CIA propaganda. He essentially crossed Bush one time to many... making one too many overtures to the Sandinistas and the Soviets. Bush Senior pulled the Potomac two-step on Noriega and Noriega reaped the whirlwind for having asked for a divorce. Regardless of what you think about the Panamanian intervention in 1989, Noriega isn't the \\"patron saint of Panama\\" that he'd have you believe he is. Nonetheless, I find his biography too be very intriguing.<br />If you care about Central American politics, you might like \\"A Twillight Struggle\\" by RobertKagan.	2002-05-30
US	51650080	R2JS7FRXHFFROJ	0849937396	85538998	Why I Believe	Books	5	0	4	N	N	Excellent Apologetical Work for Christian and Non-Christian	D. James Kennedy has crafted a wonderful apology for the believer and unbeliever elaborating on the fundamentals of the faith. Kennedy is a renowned Presbyterian Minister at Coral Ridge Presbyterian in Florida. An excellent reference work to fall back on.	2002-05-01
US	51650080	R1K8G48WC2YI1O	046508138X	549201674	Basic Economics:  A Citizen's Guide to the Economy	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Economics 101	Thomas Sowell does it again. The conservative paleolibertarian social commentator, columnist, historian, economist and writer explains Economics in practical terms for the laymen. This is economics, from a free-market perspective, made simple. It is divorced of overbearing quantitative statistics and numbers and like. It is sort of like Hidden Order by David Friedman, but I think somewhat better. Bravo! Also, if you're interested in free-market economics, than I recommend any books by F.A. Hayek, Ludwig von Mises or Milton Friedman.	2002-04-30
US	51650080	R3SWX0OWWDEINS	0195105494	101858319	Rockne of Notre Dame: The Making of a Football Legend	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Brings the legend to life...	My ole man went to Notre Dame... so I've been steeped in the rich legacy of Fightin' Irish Football. This book is by far one of the better books on Notre Dame football in its heyday under Knute Rockne who forged that legacy. The team that brought us the forward pass left a rich history worth examing. This book captures the essence of Rockne, his leadership style, his character and his ambition to excel.	2002-04-29
US	51650080	R2QRT2XIGKCUKC	0226320839	501494446	002: Law, Legislation and Liberty, Volume 2: The Mirage of Social Justice	Books	5	28	30	N	N	F.A. Hayek does it again... The Wisdom of an Old Whig	Today, it seems everyone from Patrick Buchanan to Jessie Jackson are extoling the ideal of &quot;social justice.&quot; But where did this insidious concept emerge. In the third and final installment in Hayek's Law, Legislation and Liberty series, Hayek delivers a knock out blow to the the notions of &quot;social justice&quot; or &quot;distributive justice.&quot; He examines its socialistic roots and intellectual origins, which ensued after the egalitarian fervor in post-1791 Europe. He critiques new economic and social policy, which has emerged in the wake of the &quot;social justice&quot; phenemenon.	2002-04-29
US	51650080	RCMY0TGKHM30A	1890626279	651439749	The Revenge of Conscience: Politics and the Fall of Man	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Brilliant Assessment of Contemporary Culture	Score one for the Right in the culture war of ideas. J. Budziezewski was the Texas Professor whose journey took him from humanism to nihilism to Christianity. He offers a witty, frank, tongue-in-cheek assessment of liberalism, the culture war and contemporary society... He devastates liberalism and its doctrines of moral neutrality in the secular realm. His critique of humanistic liberalism and its search for secular salvation in history is brilliant. He recognizes the limits of contemporary conservatism and communitarism. Christian or not, you should consider reading his blistering critique of pluralistic society.	2002-04-29
US	51650080	RHNFY7Y383217	081391485X	474485893	The Constitutional Thought of Thomas Jefferson (Constitutionalism and Democracy)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The Real Jefferson, Not the Reinvented One	I've always maintained that the best way to understand the founders is to understand them on their on terms. Mayer believes this too and does an excellent job at profiling the constitutional thought of Jefferson and his political philosophy. Too often, shoddy partisan scholarship like that of Richard Matthews gets it quite wrong on the founders. They do so quite purposefully choosing to dwell statically on one quote or episode instead of objectively highlighting the development of their subject. Mayer explains Jefferson on his own terms, as \\"whig,\\" \\"federal,\\" and \\"republican,\\" hence his First Inaugural Address. Jefferson was an adament defender of federalism, state's rights and the Constitution. His alleged \\"radical egalitarianism\\" was more than tempered by his mistrust of central government and the huddled urban masses and his rejection of majoritarian tyranny. \\"Democracy is not practicable beyond the limits of a town,\\" avows Jefferson. Despite his occasional contradictions, his early tenacity of youth and sympathies with the French Revolution, he was a true Whig and a classical republican, and advocate of limited government. He is an enduring founding father who deserves careful study and admiration for his statesmanship.<br />Also recommended: Alexander Hamilton and the Constitution by Clinton Rossiter.	2002-04-29
US	51650080	RMODYQFIULTI6	0895261650	769863057	Shakedown: Exposing The Real Jesse Jackson	Books	5	15	21	N	N	The Cat is Out of the Bag....	Finally, the man David Horowitz rightly blasts as a \\"racial ambulance chaser,\\" has been exposed. The full extent of Jackson's on-going corrupt exploits and wholeshale extortion schemes have be chronciled for the world to see. This shaddy, disreputable figure, who always cry \\"foul,\\" has ran down the end of the road of claiming permanent \\"victim status,\\" in an effort to line the pockets of himself and his cronies. Bravo Timmerman!	2002-04-29
US	51650080	R2FAHX36I9NIB3	0195055446	965162885	The Rise and Fall of the American Whig Party: Jacksonian Politics and the Onset of the Civil War	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great Reference on Antebellum Politics	This is a great reference on Antebellum politics in America in those formative years of sectionalism leading up to the war between the states. It picks up with the start of the Jacksonian era in the mid-1820's when the Federalist Party is no more. It is a rather thorough piece of scholarship, which some criticize for being overtly technical (e.g. election statistics.) Its value as a reference is not to be underestimated for those interested in 19th century American History. However, the bulk of the book is a well-researched reference into Whig Party politics, which itself was beset by sectionalist factions.<br />I also recommend State's Rights and the Union by Forrest McDonald.	2002-04-23
US	51650080	R2XZ0V4RME937B	0688079512	737054511	A Conflict of Visions	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Insightful look at the war of ideas...	This is an insightful look by the renowned conservative historian and economist at George Mason University, Thomas Sowell. It probes the on-going cultural war of ideas between the Left and Right. I also recommend the Vision of the Annointed by Sowell and Intellectuals by Paul Johnson.	2002-04-23
US	51650080	RKYUW898SLAW3	0375751459	532759707	Whittaker Chambers: A Biography (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	5	11	16	N	N	A Seminal Work on a Courageous Ex-Commie, Anti-Communist	I've had just read an original copy of Chambers' autobiography Witness when I had purchased this book. It was a real eye opener to the real communist threat in the 20th century. This is an excellent companion to the autobiography of Whittaker Chambers (Witness.) The prolific writer and journalist Sam Tanenhaus does an excellent job at creating an impression of Mr. Chambers. I think those interested in the Chambers-Hiss affair will also be interested in: The Black Book of Communism; The Hollywood Party; and Arthur Herman's biography of Sen. Joseph McCarthy.	2002-04-23
US	51650080	R2CKQ1Z5OINLPA	0895267659	577485728	Ghosts on the Roof: Selected Journalism of Whittaker Chambers, 1931-1959	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Excellent selection of Chambers writings	This is an excellent anthology of Whittaker Chambers' writings from his moonlighting as a communist journalist to the period after his fall out with the Reds. He follows his subsequent migration to Time and his days penning for the National Review. If you've read and enjoyed his autobiography, Witness, than you will probably enjoy this book.	2002-04-23
US	51650080	R199OCRIF5NKEB	0809093251	478948214	The Third Reich: A New History	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Reich Revisited	~The Third Reich: A New History~ breaks from the thousands of other books on the Third Reich, which focus on the cult of personality surrounding Hitler and the other Nazi leaders and analyzes the full impact of National Socialism on the people: those in Germany, the Jews, the resistance, and the conquered collaborationists. Burleigh follows the trail of death produced by the Nazi juggernaut. He makes light of  the grizzly anti-Christian, anti-clerical character of the National Socialist movement much to the chagrin of those liberals who like to wrap up Mein Kampf with the Gospel. He illustrates why the Nazis lightened up their anti-Christian campaign as resistance emerged in areas of entrenched piety. Burleigh weighs particular emphasis on Nazi eugenics formulations as a backdrop to the Nazi's racial and genocidal policies. Burleigh quells the obfuscatory sensationalism wrought out in books like _Hitler's Willing Executioners_ but he does so with some sensitivity. Burleigh cultivates the reader's compassion for the resistance from Edgar Julius Jung to Dietrich Bonhoeffer to Ewald von Kleist-Schmenzin in chronicling their efforts to challenge the Nazi regime.    It illustrates the formulative years leading up to WWII... the rise of lawlessness during the Weimer republic and Hitler's seizure of power, the dehumanization of people and the acceptance of euthanasia to get rid of undesirables, the Nazi invasions and occupation as seen by the occupied. It is well written and well organized. It presents a new window into the Third Reich that few historians have captured with such depth. Burleigh breaks with those historians like Carroll Quigley who refuse to characterize the German dictatorship as totalitarian. Burleigh, on the other hand, recognizes that Nazism tried to create a polis that truly blurred the lines between public and private, subordinating all aspects of life to the Nazi ideology.    Burleigh has written a incredibly readable narrative history of the Third Reich with an amazing zeal for historical accuracy and balance. I also recommend Leftism Revisited: From de Sade and Marx to Hitler and Pol Pot by Erik Von Kuehnelt-Leddihin and the Road to Serfdom by F.A. Hayek. These books give an excellent insight into the roots of national socialism and fascism, which was a close cousin of the French Revolution, Jacobinism, and the followers of Mazzini in Italy.	2002-04-23
US	51650080	R181NGV21XY34K	9994521896	510268435	Cliches of Politics	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Brilliant!	This book offers a poignant rejoinders to those familiar cliches, which advocate more interventionism on the part of the state in economic and social affairs. Over a hundred cliches are answered from &quot;We must abide by the majority... thats a democracy&quot; to the all to familiar &quot;Pass a law&quot; cliche. No liberty-loving library should be without a copy of this book. Contributors include a wide spectrum of paleolibertarian, conservative and other thinkers.	2002-04-23
US	51650080	R3UNDBR7VGYMCG	0849914469	395692878	Moral Dilemmas	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Solid Exposition of the Moral Dillemas We Face Today	This Christian ethics books offers a perspective on the moral dillemas we face today from a Christian point of view. The book is a concise chapter-by-chapter survey of various contemporary issues, including: abortion; euthanasia; genetic engineering; sexual promiscuity; crime and punishment; drug abuse; the family; pornography; homosexuality; technology issues; environmentalism; the media; and other issues. This book is hard-hitting and is resounding reply to those secularists who ask that Christians sit on sidelines of the political realm. If you like this book you'll probably like Understanding the Times by David Noebel and The Trouble with Democracy by William Gairdner.	2002-04-23
US	51650080	R1Q868R6NNXBFW	0316544728	335675388	001: Jefferson the Virginian - Volume I (Jefferson and His Time) (Volume 1)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An insightful look at Thomas Jefferson, the Virginian...	This wonderful piece of biographical scholarship, profiles the life of Thomas Jefferson. Jefferson was one of America's most prolific statesmen and a talented jack-of-all-trades... an architect, naturalist, jurist, political theorist and a Virginian. This book offers an insightful profile of the developments shaping Thomas Jefferson's character and Old Whig political ideas. Dumas follows Jefferson from his youth in Albemarle County to his collegiate legal studies under the his mentor, George Wythe. It intuitively chronciles Jefferson's career just following the Constitutional Convention.<br />I also recommend The Constitutional Thought of Thomas Jefferson by David Meyer and Mr. Jefferson by Albert Jay Nock.	2001-10-09
US	51650080	R3868VX7VHO18W	0684834936	667246406	Darwin's Black Box: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	5	10	18	N	N	A sound job at refuting Darwinism...	This book goes one step further in refuting evolution over most creationist books, which simply focus on the laws of Thermodynamics, physics and the information theory. It shows the incredible complexity of life-sustaining proteins and the total unlikeliness of such complex, intricate structures happening by chance. The author makes a convincing case about the utter absurdity of it happening by chance without intelligent design.<br />Also, he accepts the idea of natural selection, as if Darwinists and Evolutionists have a monopoly on it. A scientist and a creationist named Edward Blyth, conceived of the concept of natural selection and adaptation some 25 years before Darwin's controversial Origin of the Species thesis. He conceived of it as a conservative genetic process that removed defective and unsuited organisms from an environment (e.g. a relatively hairless dog in an sub-arctic environment.) It built on Mendel's genetic experiments.	2001-10-02
US	51650080	ROCULIARYNKIO	0679767495	771111727	In Retrospect: The Tragedy and Lessons of Vietnam	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Interesting perspective from the guy who screwed things up..	McNamara and his so called Whiz Kids really botched things up in Vietnam. Though, McNamara makes for an interesting read... The same arrogant McNamara that sunk us into the quagmire in Vietnam, with his poorly planned strategy, is still somewhat defiantly arrogant in this book. Yes, he humbles himself at first, but his true self comes out in the book. To me, he is still apt at making excuses like 'America was overzealously concerned about containing communism' and the 'domino theory is bogus.' McNamara is right in pointing out how we alienated the Vietnamese people, but he was complicit in the policy to do so. <br />Vietnam was a farce, because Vietnam had no clear-cut strategic objectives... Gen. Westmoreland succinctly summarized its failings when he stated that the overarching strategic objective is to 'rack up the body count.' Killing people and breaking things is a means to attaining an end, but it shouldn't be the only end.<br />Also recommended:<BR>No More Vietnams by Richard Nixon<BR>A Bright Shining Lie<BR>Vietnam: The Neccessary War	2001-10-02
US	51650080	R28IQ081J6WVC4	0895267896	485385986	Witness	Books	5	17	20	N	N	An Intriguing Look at a Courageous Man	I acquired an original 1st edition copy of this classic, but oddly enough I kept it shelfed, assuming it to be rather mundane. I was very wrong! This is a fascinating biographical account of a former American communist, who 'defected' to the cause of freedom after seeing communism for what it really was- a LIE! Witness profiles the life of Whittaker Chambers during his hey-day as an avid Marxist to his conversion, which was as much a spiritual transformation, as an ideological one. <br />He was the whistleblower who offered the account of over Alger Hiss and an entreched number of communist agents in the U.S. State Department and other positions of power. I also recommend his biography by Sam Tanenhaus. Chambers would later continue his journalism career, writing for Time. He eventually came under the umbrella of the conservative William F. Buckley's National Review.	2001-10-02
US	51650080	R30DY2TDKK710P	0913966916	702000055	The American Democrat	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Equality as virtue and vice...	Whereas, Alexis de Tocqueville offers his perspective on America as an outside observer, the literary genius James Fenimore Cooper offers his assessment of culture, politics and society in 19th century America. He doesn't hold democracy to be sacrosanct like we do today, but rather like any other system of government with its advantages and disadvantages. His look at the nature of liberty and its relation with equality is particularly intriguing.<br />He is cognizant of the dangers posed to American self-government, which values legal equality. Equality, is a virtue, only insofar as it pertains to equal rights and equality before the law. Any effort at establishing equality of outcome is tantamount to tyranny and opposed to liberty. Cooper illustrates the precarious relationship between liberty and equality. Unless, tradition, custom, the rule of law and the Constitution are revered and upheld- the American Polity could easily collapse into majoritarian tyranny under a demagogue. <br />One gains an appreciation of the system of government established by the American founding fathers after reading this book... They established a constitutionally-limited federal republic, with limits not only on the power of government, but with limits placed on the power of majority rule, so as to limit the fundamental role of government to protecting the rights of its citizens. This constitutional republic sought to balance out monarchial, democratic, and aristocratic elements...	2001-09-30
US	51650080	RX35F7GY4P3VQ	0895262428	518501198	American Democrat and Other Political Writings	Books	5	23	24	N	N	A critique of culture, politics and society in early America	Whereas, Alexis de Tocqueville offers his perspective on America as an outside observer, the literary genius James Fenimore Cooper offers his assessment of culture, politics and society in 19th century America. He doesn't hold democracy to be sacrosanct like we do today, but rather like any other system of government with its advantages and disadvantages. His look at the nature of liberty and its relation with equality is particularly intriguing.<br />He is cognizant of the dangers posed to American self-government, which values legal equality. Equality, is a virtue, only insofar as it pertains to equal rights and equality before the law. Any effort at establishing equality of outcome is tantamount to tyranny and opposed to liberty. Cooper illustrates the precarious relationship between liberty and equality. Unless, tradition, custom, the rule of law and the Constitution are revered and upheld- the American Polity could easily collapse into majoritarian tyranny under a demagogue.<br />One gains an appreciation of the system of government established by the American founding fathers after reading this book... They established a constitutionally-limited federal republic, with limits not only on the power of government, but with limits placed on the power of majority rule, so as to limit the fundamental role of government to protecting the rights of its citizens. This constitutional republic sought to balance out monarchial, democratic, and aristocratic elements...	2001-09-30
US	51650080	RT5YG4UEAU6UR	080651860X	226725702	The Legal 100: A Ranking of the Individuals Who Have Most Influenced the Law	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An interesting look at the figures who shaped jurisprudence	It offers a top 100 legal list of attorneys, jurists, judges, statesmen, philosophers and political theorists through the ages that have a profound influence on Western Jurisprudence. The Legal 100 places a particular emphasis on Anglo-American law. I guess this book is fairly balanced ideologically. Though, it has quite a few figures who organized the law for the purpose of 'legal plunder.' Granted, they've had a profound influence on contemporary law too. It is probably one of those books like Black's Law Dictionary, that every student of law should have. My only gripe is that the classical liberal statesmen and economist, Frederic Bastiat, was not included.<br />Sampling of the top 50: 1. James Madison; 2. Alexander Hamilton; 3. John Marshall; 4. Cicero; 5. Daniel Webster; 6. Clarence Darrow; 7. William Mansfield; 8. Thomas Eskine; 9. Edward M. Hall; 10. Earl Warren; 11. Edward Coke; 12. Francis Bacon; 13. William Blackstone; 14. James Kent; 15. George Wythe; 16. John Locke; 17. Montesquieu; 18. Olier Wendell Holmes; 19. Louis D. Brandeis; 20. John Marshall Harlan; 21. Aristotle; 22. Jeremy Bentham; 23. John Stuart Mill; 24. John Austin; 25. Karl Marx; 26. Earl Rogers; 27. Charles Evans Hughes; 28. Hugo Black; 29. William O. Douglas; 31. Hammurabi; 32. Solon; 33. Justinian I; 34. Henry II; 35. Edward I; 36. Napoleon Bonaparte; 37. Benjamin Disraeli; 38. William Gladstone; 39. Theodore Roosevelt; 40. Woodrow Wilson; 41. Franklin D. Roosevelt; 42. Lyndon Baines Johnson; 43. Christopher Langdell; 44. Roscoe Pound; 45. Benjamin Cardozo; 46. Lemuel Shaw; 47. Mary Wollstonecraft; 48. William Godwin; 49. Mohandas Gandhi; and 50. Susan B. Anthony. Other luminaries included are: Thurgood Marshall Edmund Burke, Patrick Henry, Thomas Jefferson, Joseph Story, John C. Calhoun, Otto von Bismark and V.I. Lenin.	2001-09-30
US	51650080	R2RG5UCN4R31BO	0553278398	525478656	Prelude to Foundation (Foundation, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A marvelous work of science-fiction.	I read this a very long time ago when I was in my early teens. This book sets the stage for the Foundation series.... Young Hari Seldon journeys around the technotronic planet Trantor and unravels the future of the empire... This book was written after Foundation and the other novels... but is sequenced as the first in the series. It is frequently skipped, but I consider it among the best novels in the series. It really sets the background for anyone jumping into the Foundation series.	2001-09-29
US	51650080	R3RYSOA41TV1AI	0700602933	277975207	The Radical Politics of Thomas Jefferson	Books	1	11	35	N	N	Terrible Scholarship	Matthews specializes in revisionist pseudohistory for the limousine liberal crowd. This book tries to portray Jefferson as a Democratic Radical and a quasi-socialist. The author is muddling his own socialist, left-wing philosophy with Jefferson, but misinterpreting quotes and out right fabrication. Matthews is down right distortive of both Jefferson and Madison... <br />I'd instead recommend Mr. Jefferson by Albert Jay Nock and The Constitutional Thought of Thomas Jefferson by David Meyer. The biographies by Dumas Malone are worth noting, but there is no better way to understand Jefferson than read his political writings. Get the Library of America volume with Jefferson's writings.	2001-09-25
US	51650080	R2I9PCCPBT510C	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A superb biography of John Adams	This book really paints a vivid picture of the life of John Adams- as the President, as the statesmen, as the lawyer and as the citizen. Moreover, McCullough does a good job of adding perspective and illustrating the life of Adams behind his political career. I wholeheartedly recommend this book.<br />Today, it seems most biographies on the founders are more apt to be distortive, revisionist and controversial works just to sell copies. This is not the case with this book. McCullough has created a wonderful piece of scholarship...	2001-09-25
US	51650080	RLNM1VIPFDRQ6	0130639915	330772372	Political Philosophy: The Search for Humanity and Order	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Well-Rounded Political Theory through the Ages	A well-rounded book on political philosophy through the ages. It does a fairly good job of covering the classical tradition through modern times. It does a good job covering antiquity to the middle ages. My gripe is that the modern radicals get covered and their is virtually nothing from the American Founding Fathers or those who inspired the American Constitutional Republic (except John Locke.) Perhaps, something from Montesquieu and Madison could have been included. <br />It is used for various Political Theory classes. Incidentally, I've acquired a great deal of the writings in this book beforehand and probably never spent as much as this text costs. Also, the bulk of these writings are available in the public domain, which makes one wonder why it is so expensive. Typical of most textooks, it is ridiculously expensive like all textbooks from the Cali Textbook Cartel.	2001-09-25
US	51650080	R1Q10KJ7EA1UAI	0029024803	76224891	An Economic Interpretation of the Constitution of The United States	Books	2	17	47	N	N	Bad Thesis... Worth reading to answer the charges...	This book basically puts forward a theory that the founders just established the Constitution for their own personal economic gain. This book is well-researched, but its premise is totally flawed. Moreover, it tries to portray all of the founding fathers as self-serving and looking out for their own economic interests. It doesn't really explain why some of the wealthiest colonists and statesmen such as George Mason and Elbridge Gerry refused to sign on. Moreover, I'd recommend that any student of the Constitution, study the writings of the framers and the Constitutional debates to answer these charges. I also recommend _The Founder's Constitution_ set, edited by Phillip Kurland and Ralph Lerner. It is an excellent tool for examining original intent. The renowned constitutional scholar, Forrest McDonald, does an excellent job introducing this book and debunking its controversial charge towards the Constitution.	2001-09-25
US	51650080	R16AA42OD5NA4N	1568331231	268745802	For Good and Evil: The Impact of Taxes on the Course of Civilization	Books	5	24	26	N	N	A sweeping historical narrative of taxation since Babylon	I read this book sometime ago, but still recall it quite vividly. For good and evil- taxes seem like there here to stay. Adams, a tax attorney by trade, offers an intriguing narrative history of taxation since ancient times. Moreover, he illustrates how their is a fine line of how much sustained taxation a civilization can endure before it collapses, (hence the Laffer Curve.) He points out the pitfalls the befall ancient Rome and Egypt when they engaged in confiscatory taxation policies. <br />Additionally, he shows how high taxes feed a vicious cycle of statism, corruption and more taxes and economic collapse as demagogues rise to the power. Indeed, this book makes it clear that taxation has &quot;the power to destroy&quot; as it has brought mighty empires to their knees. (Granted, some might say its the effect, not the cause of a debased culture. Morality and tradition play a role as well in the collapse of civilizations.)<br />Also recommend: When Nations Die by Jim Black.	2001-05-03
US	51650080	R3VK74WFILHY2O	0688064264	135683332	Marxism: Philosophy and economics	Books	5	36	48	N	N	So you want to understand Marxism...	I'm admittedly vehemently anti-communist. Moreover, I've devoted quite a bit of time studying communism, Marxist-Leninist ideology, its history, the murderous history of the Soviet Union and Red China, its influence in America and Europe and how its shaped other ideologies.  This book is rather objective for a conservative like Sowell. It makes no presumptions and goes out on a limb to present the Marxist worldview from the Marxist's vantage point.    Marxist writings on economics and history are found on the Internet in public domain archives. Moreover, must are incredibly dry reads written in verbiage that is non-sensical, technical and forceful in its sometimes unsupported assertions. Thus, if you're looking to understand Marxism in précis, I'd recommend this strategy. Get Sowell's book, which outlines the basic tenets of the Marxist Worldview... Get Understanding the Times: The Religious Worldviews of our Time by David Noebel... and get the Communist Manifesto programme.    Sowell's book outlines the Marxist view of history... its spin on the Hegelian dialectical that views class struggle as the driving force of history and the Marxist belief the communism is inevitable. Sowell looks at Marx in the 'pure' Marxist context minus Leninist assumptions... Though, it is readily apparent that following Marx's prescription for change will ultimately led to Soviet-style totalitarianism. Lastly, though some may find the book and indeed the subject boring, Sowell writes lucidly with the implicit purpose of surmising Marxist ideology less the arcane language.    By understanding the Marxist perspective on history - you can see how many communists feel communism didn't die with the Soviet Union, and it is the unknown ideal somehow destined for mankind.	2001-05-03
US	51650080	R1GUY4PVF4PDY3	1568330944	143299866	A Nation of Millionaires: Unleashing America's Economic Potential	Books	5	5	9	N	N	A political blueprint for restoring the American dream	Amidst declining prosperity, stagnating economic growth, and lower savings rate - a large portion of America's population is faced with little or no money for retirement and stagnating income that loses to inflation. Genetski offers a true vision of the American Dream - repealing the sacred cows of the New Deal and the Great Society in favor of an opportunity society where we the people gain unprecedented control of the fruits of their labor. In this opportunity society, \\"the private, productive work force is so attractive, no one can afford to be left out.\\" Among the remedies in this free-market prescription our: Social Security privatization, medical savings accounts, reforming the education system and tort reform. There is in an old saying that when you subsidize failure and poverty you get more of both-vis-a-vis, when you subsidize savings and investment capital, you reap more prosperity.	2001-05-02
US	51650080	R3K4MS8LDWV9EC	0140444270	888404112	On War (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	21	28	N	N	Classic on military tactics... The concept of total war..	I have the Regnery edition- &quot;War, Politics, and Power,&quot; but this edition surmising Clausewitz's writings seems more widely available. So I offer my review on his writings and recommend this book. This book was widely disseminated in Red China, Nazi Germany, and the Soviet Union.<br />Essentially, this book contains the best writings of the German military theorist.  Clauswitz, the Prussian Sun Tzu, effectively brought the concept of total war into acceptability. Gone our the days Antonie Henri Jomini's chilvarious code of conduct and honor- Civilians will not only be subject to attack - they'll bear the brunt of the battle in an age of total war. Several points are made- which are crucial to surmising Clausewitzian theory- 1) &quot;War is the continuation of state policy by other means;&quot; 2) &quot;All war is based on the art of deception;&quot; 3) &quot;No one starts war... without first being clear in his mind what he intends to achieve by the war and how he intends to conduct it;&quot; 4) War is &quot;an act of force to compel our enemy to do our will.&quot; 5) &quot;If the enemy is thrown off balance,  he must not be given time to recover.  Blow after blow must be struck in the same direction: the victor, in other words, must strike with all his strength... by daring to win all, will one really defeat the enemy.&quot;<br />To me this work is valuable in its historical context- and as an ardent student of military history.	2001-05-02
US	51650080	R1VE8WAT2JKP6N	0767900391	565047830	What It Means to Be a Libertarian: A Personal Interpretation	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Libertarian Blueprint for true Federalism...	Charles Murray's claim to fame is the Bell Curve and Gaining Ground... He utilizes an adroit mix of verbal and quantitative logic to support and substantiate his perspective. To me Charles Murray is a practical libertarian- or as he calls himself a small-l libertarian. He shows why the government that governs the least is the one that governs the best. Also, he offers a vision for restoring the 10th amendment and federalism consistent with the original intent of the founding fathers and the natural law philosophy. In short, he offers a plan of action to vault individual liberty and responsibility to its rightful position in an opportunity society where we are not government subjects, but citizens. In this 'Civil Society,' individual fulfillment, prosperity and happiness would be the norm. It is a society where freedom and responsibility replace servitude and dependency. He itinerates the fundamentals about the rule of law, the role of government and its role as protector of individual rights... drawing upon such luminaries as Edmund Burke, James Madison and Thomas Jefferson. Upholding the 10th Amendment is tantamount to his blueprint for renewing liberty, most federal departments would be abolished, while drastically trimmed departments of Defense, Justice and State would remain. Indeed, his blueprint for a new birth of freedom is concomitant to the Jeffersonian vision: \\"a wise and frugal government\\" which should preserve order among the inhabitants but would \\"leave them otherwise free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement.\\"<br />A cheap shot by critics - is that this book isn't a primer on libertarian ideology. As the title states it is \\"A Personal Interpretation.\\" Moreover, it gives understanding to libertarian ideology in practice. What would a libertarian society be like? What is government's role in this society? Murray goes to great lengths to address the importance of the rule of law, property, individual liberty, economic freedom, the failures of intervention and state coercion. I found two negative reviews with familiar cliches from interventionists. One reviewer declared it to be a \\"Whiggish reading of history, and a failure to distinguish sufficiently between political and economic liberty.\\" Apparently, he fails to realize that a basic premise of libertarianism is that the two are intertwined and thus inseparable. Moreover, a reduction in either economic or political liberty translates to the reduction of the other. The other reviewer avows that people would flee admittedly unregulated businesses in droves... He fails to realize the benefits of a choice equation in a free-market for both businesses and consumers alike.	2001-05-02
US	51650080	R3NEV2K272UVGA	0945466021	42209731	The Free Market Reader: Essays in the Economics of Liberty	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Interesting and timely anthology of free-market thought...	Lew Rockwell has compiled a fascinating collection of essays to add to the free-market apologia.  Rockwell is the &quot;dean&quot; of the Ludwig von Mises Institute in Alabama, the fountainhead of paleolibertarianism. The Institute works to advance individual liberty and free-markets while promoting Judeo-Christian values.<br />This book, originally published in the late 1980's, contains a number of essays on a variety of issues from economists, scholars and free-market defenders. It features<br />luminaries of the Austrian school such as Mises, Reed, Rothbard, Skouson. Also, the paleolibertarian Congressman of Texas, Dr. Ron Paul offers his perspective in essays such as &quot;The Coming World Bank&quot; and &quot;The Case for Free Trade.&quot; Moreover, Lew Rockwell, the editor, also offers some fresh perspectives.<br />Wide-ranging issues such as: banking, economic myths &amp; fundamentals, fiat money vs. the gold standard, free trade vs. protectionism, privatization and socialism, etc.  Plus a salute to the great economists of the Austrian school of economics.<br />Moreover, it seems this book has gone out-of-print.  You might want to search for it on a used book search like half.com if you don't have any luck with Amazon's used book service.  Though, I've seen it available every now and again.	2001-05-02
US	51650080	R2LDK7WJAXGLGX	096039382X	984106995	You Don't Say	Books	4	1	17	N	N	Interesting compilation of quotations made by liberals...	This came as my gift for joining the Conservative Book Club. The author has assembled a vibrant collection of quotations... He makes it a sort of a guessing game trivia type deal. He points out the fanatical anti-family, anti-religion, anti-market, anti-western socialistic internationalist agenda. Hearing liberals in their on crude, behind the scenes frankness, unmasks their true intentions and their radically Marxist agenda. Moreover, he presents each quote with annotated commentary. I appreciate this unabashed paleoconservative way of putting things in perspective.. Its a break from the politically correct rhetoric of neoconservatives.	2001-05-02
US	51650080	R29O5R2WB3VB77	0895264013	332043847	War, Politics, and Power: Selections from on War, and I Believe and Profess	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Clausewitz on War	Essentially, this book contains the German military theorist and tacticians best writings. Clauswitz, the Prussian Sun Tzu, effectively brought the concept of total war into acceptability. Gone our the days Antonie Henri Jomini's chilvarious code of conduct and honor- Civilians will not only be subject to attack - they'll bear the brunt of the battle in an age of total war. Several points are made- which are crucial to surmising Clausewitzian theory- 1) &quot;War is the continuation of state policy by other means;&quot; 2) &quot;All war is based on the art of deception;&quot; 3) &quot;No one starts war... without first being clear in his mind what he intends to achieve by the war and how he intends to conduct it;&quot; 4) War is &quot;an act of force to compel our enemy to do our will.&quot; 5) &quot;If the enemy is thrown off balance, he must not be given time to recover. Blow after blow must be struck in the same direction: the victor, in other words, must strike with all his strength... by daring to win all, will one really defeat the enemy.&quot; To me this work is valuable in its historical context- and as an ardent student of military history.<br />I got this from the Conservative Book Club, which is tied to the Regnery publishing house. Apparently, one of the reasons that this book is pushed by the conservative publishing house Regnery- isn't because conservatives are thought of as warmongerers, but because the this book is so widely disseminated in the Communist Bloc nations. Understanding the strategic theory that so profoundly influences them should wake us up.	2001-05-02
US	51650080	R278CJ24CK0VKN	0879388013	581082707	An Illustrated History of the Gestapo	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Intriguing history of Nazi Germany's Secret Police...	The author tracks the political machinations of the SS, the Gestapo, and evolution of Hitler's instruments of terror. He chronicles it from its beginnings as a small intelligence agency watching communist dissendents to its evolution into a monsterous secret police and intelligence agency. He offers insights on the minds of Hitler, Goering, Himmler, Schellenberg, and other movers and shakers in the Third Reich.<br />The only downside is this book is not a thorough piece of scholarship... Not everything is footnoted or substantiated. The bibliography is skimppy. Moreover, the author didn't go to any great lengths to find multiple sources or add any new revelations. Albeit, he did feature interviews from the Gestapo's living victims.	2001-05-02
US	51650080	R30T45KG3O12BQ	0805463577	696091426	In the Lion's Den: A Shocking Account of Persecuted and Martyrdom of Christians Today and How We Should Respond	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Christians- The most persecuted group in the world now!!	An insightful and powerful book addressing Christian persecution throughout the world.  Shea declares that more Christians have died for their faith in the 19th and 20th century than throughout the whole of history.<br />I do think this book could be ammended... It deals priamrily more with abuses in Islamic and Asian countries. Stalin's purges were specifically targeted at some Christians. Moreover, Christians endure a hostile media environment in America and Europe that no other group seems to be subject to.	2001-05-02
US	51650080	R1PEW1YOOB9261	0932790313	675965579	Case for Gold: A Minority Report of the United State Gold Commission	Books	5	116	126	N	N	Ron Paul's Report of the U.S. Gold Comission	This book first written in the early 1980's by the honorable Congressman from Texas and Lewis Lehrman discusses the feasibility of bringing back the gold standard. Moreover, Paul makes the case for the gold standard and the case for abolishing the Federal Reserve, which has to its credit: a Great Depression, bloated government growth, skyrocketing public and private debt, stagnating economic growth, and an inflationary boom in the 1970's.<br />Amidst, rampant inflation of the 1970's, a skyrocketing deficit... Things didn't look so good and a number of business and political leaders seriously enterained and supported the idea of reverting back to the gold standard.  Sooner or later the financial institutions and fiat money cartel will abuse its power of the press and inflate us into another depression. Perhaps then instead of migrating to a world bank and currency structure, we will kill the fiat money machine once and for all.<br />Lastly consider these words: &quot;Under a gold standard, the amount of credit that an economy can support is determined by the economy's tangible assets, since every credit instrument is ultimately a claim on some tangible asset. But government bonds are not backed by tangible wealth, only by the government's promise to pay out of future tax revenues... A large volume of new government bonds can be sold to the public only at progressively higher interest rates. Thus, government spending under a gold standard is severely limited.... In the absence of a gold standard, there is no way to protect savings from confiscation through inflation.... This is the shabby secret of the welfare statists' tirades against gold.  Deficit spending is simply a scheme for the hidden confiscation of wealth. Gold stands in the way of this insidious process...&quot;  Moreover, the author also makes it known that the gold standard wouldn't have the prolonged economic distortions and vicious boom-and-bust cycles that fiat money systems have.  Who was the author?None other than Alan Greenspan in an essay called Gold and Economic Freedom.  When Greenspan, the Federal Reserve Chief, is face-to-face with Ron Paul... in the back of his head, he knows Paul is right and that the central bank is wrong!	2001-05-02
US	51650080	RZMAIX6D38BN1	0847685160	514232301	Vindicating the Founders: Race, Sex, Class, and Justice in the Origins of America	Books	5	8	20	N	N	How to answer PC revisionism? Throw historical fact at it.	Thomas West presents the founders in their own words and presents their principles and ideals that shaped of the Revolution, the founding of the Republic, and the Constitution. West challenges political correctness and the tired old diatribe about how freedom stopped in the 1790's with the &quot;white male property-owning slaveholder.&quot;	2001-03-29
US	51650080	R1WVABP94142VT	0486259803	475234511	The Confederate Reader: How the South Saw the War (Civil War)	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Interesting Compilation of Southern Perspectives	This is an interesting compilation of Confederate perspectives from the period. However, I think it is wanting in content to truly fulfill the title... Though, its not that the perspectives are slanted negatively against the south-	2001-03-13
US	51650080	R31O7TPWZV7IGQ	0195071980	943711718	The Oxford Companion to American Military History	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Interesting reference for military history buff.	This book is NOT a chronological book of American military history, but rather an encyclopedic reference with thousands of entries. No pictures- ...  It covers topics including: all the major wars, battles, bios on military leaders, warfare methods, a survey of combat weapons and military hardware, political acts by Congress and treaties, overviews of the military structure and services.  It features contributions by notaries like Stephen E. Ambrose and John Keegan... its coverage priorities are odd. The political-correctness bent comes out every now and then in this book...	2000-11-01
US	51650080	R3Q45OC7OLDW32	156554109X	976301538	The Flags of the Confederacy : An Illustrated History (Flags of the Civil War)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Authoritative reference on flags of the Confederacy.	Devereaux D. Cannon is an expert on vexillology (the study of flags).  This book offers a history, profiles, design specs and an overview of the various flags (national flags, battle flags and naval ensigns) that were utilized by the Confederacy.  The book features several pages with glossy photos of the various flags of the Confederacy.  It features even the little known flags.  Cannon's book has inspired flag maker's to revive the old flags in addition to the 3 national flags, the battle flag and the naval ensign.  This book is must have for flag gurus, Civil War buffs and southern partisans.	2000-11-01
US	51650080	RML98VG54RT1W	0312230826	747474986	Feeling Your Pain: The Explosion and Abuse of Government Power in the Clinton-Gore Years	Books	5	0	1	N	N	James Bovard offers his keen insight on liberty vs. tyranny.	Who will win out in the 21st century? The forces of collectivism, statism and the welfare-warfare state or the ideals of individual liberty, personal responsibility, and a constitutionally limited government. The 1990's has been a time of explosive growth for the forces of statism under the Clinton administration... Bovard chronicles the attack on liberty under the Clintonista regime. The rising tide of statism is alarming... A large portion of all economic growth during these times was siphoned off by the government. I recommend all of James Bovard's books...	2000-10-15
US	51650080	R287URD8U0MQ01	0700606432	931782713	If Men Were Angels: James Madison and the Heartless Empire of Reason	Books	1	11	32	N	N	This revisionist book is a stake in the heart of Madison...	Matthew specializes in pseudohistory books for New York's limousine liberal crowd.  This book is a downright distortive pseudohistory that dwells on one Madison quote and inteprets Madison's whole political philosophy as some proto-authoritarian republican advocating a strong central government and &quot;Machiavellian&quot; politics to maintain &quot;stability.&quot;  The author essentially muddles his own socialistic, authoritarian philosophy on politics with that of James Madison.  He tries to reintepret the history of the Presidency of Madison along these lines.	2000-10-03
US	51650080	R4KH4CEBE99TR	0071357548	655141869	24 Essential Lessons for Investment Success: Learn the Most Important Investment Techniques from the Founder of Investor's Business Daily	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Sound and practical advice from stock guru...	William O'Neil is the founder and publisher of Investor's Business Daily and offers great advice on sound investing.  I recommend reading this book after reading his primer &quot;How to Make Money in Stocks.&quot;  O'Neil offers simple crisp reading with practical advice for the guy on the street looking at investing.  O'Neil's techniques help you cover all grounds so that you can be aggressive and go for the strong stocks, yet cautious in capital preservation.	2000-10-03
US	51650080	RSPL2MA185C1C	0910884293	598448773	The Anti-Capitalistic Mentality	Books	5	35	44	N	N	Give this to that guy who whines about big bad business!	This is a good probe into the mindset of socialist-interventionists.  It unmasks the psychology and ideology that plays on people's emotions, fears and ignorance, while advancing the cause of collectivism and big government.  Commies would write this book off as bourgeois trash for capitalist pigs.  Free-marketers will find this tract enjoyable.  However, it might free a few minds of anti-capitalist leanings.  I'm surprised how many people think that the root of inflation is simply 'greedy' businesses raising prices.<br />&quot;An 'anti-something' movement displays a purely negative attitude.  It has no chance whatever to succeed.  Its passionate diatribes virtually advertise the program they attack.  People must fight for something that they want to achieve, not simply reject an evil, however, bad it may be be.  They must, without any reservations, endorse the program of the market economy.&quot; -- Ludwig von Mises.	2000-09-23
US	51650080	R2HZCKDC5MCC2Z	0913966630	767738963	Socialism: An Economic and Sociological Analysis	Books	5	58	66	N	N	A classic tour-de-force by an economics genius...	A thorough analysis and brilliant refutation of socialism and the politics of redistribution. This book confront the many myths surrounding socialism that are stilled echoed today. It is so concise, straight-forward and covers all the bases in a simple, yet powerful text. Also, this book confronts all the so called &quot;Third Way&quot; positionists advocating social justice, a mixed economy, a corporatist state, fascism, syndicalism and other dubiously named contrivances that are essentially socialist forms of economic organization.  Mises makes it clear that socialism, the so called economic system of the future, is anti-social and incompatible with human nature. As Mises declares, &quot;Men must choose between capitalism and socialism,&quot; which is simply because, &quot;If the the market is not allowed to steer the whole economic apparatus, the government must do it.&quot;  There is no Third Way, how true! The debate lies between free-markets and socialism -and this book makes it clear socialism is illogical.  This book might be helpful at deprogramming a quasi-socialist by exposing and refuting all the major myths.   If you're getting a start on studying classical economics than get this book.  The Law by Frederic Bastiat and Economics in One Lesson by Henry Hazlitt is also recommended.	2000-09-23
US	51650080	R1ZCE7X8R820MQ	0070480176	778370224	How to Make Money in Stocks: A Winning System in Good Times or Bad	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Best and simplest book on the subject of investing!	My father had introduced me to William O'Neil's books and his financial daily, the Investor's Business Daily.  I have nothing but praise for this book.  No hype... just sound advice on improving your stock analysis ability and decision making ability and net worth.  The C-A-N-S-L-I-M methodology is invaluable for picking out a stock winner.  His advice on cutting losses early on a loser stock is sound, especially in today's volatile and hyped markets... <br />I also recommend getting Investor's Business Daily... Frankly, its much better than the WSJ, because its focus on investing is gear towards individual investor on the street. Its data and articles are superb.  It has a no non-sense free-market perspective while it leaves out the Wall Street establishment angle.  IBD is also free of all the assorted non-financial riff-raff, which means its subscription price is half that of WSJ.	2000-09-23
US	51650080	R3AIXIKI7VGDOJ	9993198684	895188298	Bureaucracy	Books	5	20	22	N	N	The Free-Market Perspective on Big Government	This is a short economic tract from the acclaimed Austrian economist known for his stern defense of free-markets.  Mises' sharp verbal logic and analysis of the adverse affect that bureaucracy, socialism, and a bloated public sector has on the economy.  This book is a classic.  I recommend reading in tandem with his other classics like Human Action, Liberalism in the Classical Tradition, Socialism.	2000-09-23
US	51650080	R1G87P6UBMM2A9	0671012150	218707282	The Age of Louis XIV (The Story of Civilization VIII)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Tour de force! The best book on the period!	Durant covers Western Civilization and European history with an in-depth clarity that no historian of the 20th century can match. If you like history, don't pass on Will Durant. With regard to this book, it does an excellent job of covering all aspects of European history at the time of Louis XIV.  Durant delves far deeper than a mere political and social history of the times.	2000-09-22
US	51650080	R1VZVE0NIGY88C	0813332893	568367162	001: The Gulag Archipelago, 1918-1956: An Experiment in Literary Investigation (Volume One)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	A superb exposition on Soviet Gulags and Atrocities...	Your media, publishing houses and education system were apparently to busy raving about the horrors of McCarthyism and sculpting Stalin into Time Magazine's Man of the year for 1943- they didn't have time to tell you how the communists got by with liquidating over 100,000,000 people in the 20th century. Well now the dead have a voice... Out of the evil empire, a voice emerged to tell the story that academia and the media didn't care to hear. This book is haunting, because it brings historic fact to the table from someone that lived firsthand in the Soviet Gulag state.  The accounts of life (and death) in the gulag are vivid and engrossing.  What I find most disturbing is how so many dogmatic leftists still play apologists for the Soviet Union.	2000-09-22
US	51650080	R2SFTRAU1BQFNY	0671616005	533474173	5: The Renaissance (The Story of Civilization V)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Will Durant is one of my favorite historians...	I recommend the whole Story of Civilization set.  I've got all eleven.  Durant is a brilliant writer and macrohistorian.  His approach delves deep into the era with more than just a mere political or social history. I bought the set after my history professor recommended it some time ago.  He covers Western Civilization and European history with an in-depth clarity that no historian of the 20th century can match.  If you like history, don't pass on Will Durant.	2000-09-22
US	51650080	R16WIDTI6YDENX	1890626287	979941263	The Art of Political War and Other Radical Pursuits	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Horowitz tackles untoched topic - Political Warfare	This book touches on a new topic - political warfare, the marketing of ideology and how the leftists are winning at it.  Horowitz offers some answers why the leftists and liberals are so good at it... the media certainly helps... I'd say scare tactics is #1... Horowitz hints that the right needs to shift back to its old platform of economic independence, personal responsibility and limited government - and work at getting its message across.<br />However, this book leaves you wanting for answers on what the right could do to reverse the trends. Horowitz is probably gearing up for another book.  It seems the Machiavellian tactics that Republicans in general have taken is to be all things to all people... Their liberal-conservatives, or &quot;compassionate conservatives&quot; and tolerant of a lukewarm regulatory and welfare state. Historically, they don't win by being liberals.	2000-09-21
US	51650080	R1ES7BV07Y5S8K	031226660X	19959884	The Ten Things You Can't Say in America	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Yeah! Larry is right with his no holds barred attack on PC	Larry Elder, libertarian radio commentator and journalist, tackles tough issues, challenges political correctness and presents hard facts on ten unspoken truths confronting America.  Larry is candid, frank and derails the PC crowd off its tracks - whether its on the issue of feminism, gun control, race and racism or government intervention in the economy.  Need a break from the the liberal media? or just simply tired of compromise and political correctness from neoconservative Republicans? Than get Larry Elder's book - The Ten Things You Can't Say in America.	2000-09-21
US	51650080	R1P81785PGDWSV	0945466102	636809103	What Has Government Done to Our Money?	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A sound defense of sound money.	Murray Rothbard makes the case against the Federal Reserve, socialist  central banking schemes and inflationary fiat money.  This book's detractor  from Brazil apparently doesn't see the politics behind Keynesian economics  --socialism.  <br />I recommend reading this book along with Ludwig von Mises'  Theory of Money and Credit.	2000-09-13
US	51650080	RDPYE81CMYBGK	0226493644	411166366	More Guns, Less Crime: Understanding Crime and Gun-Control Laws	Books	5	38	51	N	N	Conventional wisdom says guns cause violence and crime?	This book has definitely brought the anti-self defense lobby into an  uproar.  It probably won't win any converts among the overtly dogmatic gun  control crowd who use lies, deceit, and legal manipulation too further  their disarmament agenda.  It's a good read to give to the  \\"neutral\\" non-gun owner who's not quite as passionate about the  Second Amendment, yet not decisively \\"anti-gun.\\"      As the  National Review has said, \\"Lott has done to gun control what Charles  Murray did to welfare payments in Losing Ground.\\" This book is a  thorough, well-reasoned rebuttal to liberal gun control dogma and it proves  that more guns do equal less crime.  It's no coincidence that the  highest-crime cities have the most gun control and that states like Vermont  with \\"no permit required\\" concealed-carry enjoy the lowest crime  rates. Lott does an excellent job shattering gun control myths... whether  its those about gun buybacks, waiting periods, and background checks  reducing crime or high-crime being attributable to a \\"proliferation of  weapons.\\" Lott, an economist at the University of Chicago makes a  well-reasoned analysis of gun control trends and its consequences, while  offering excellent reasoning, verbal logic and statistics based on facts  not wild speculation. This is the book to have close at hand when gearing  up for a debate with those against the inalienable right to self-defense.	2000-09-13
US	51650080	R1I3GMY4ASRQU6	0925279579	447555613	Original Intent:	Books	5	61	161	N	N	The Founder's Original Intent vs. Secular Revisionism	David Barton clears the air about the \\"separation of church and state.\\"   Today, nearly everywhere in the United States is being declared \\"a public  realm,\\" even private institutions and businesses, where traditional  religious observance is restricted or off limits, because God forbid  someone might be offended.  Never mind that the U.S. government has  unconstitutionally declared Secular Humanism the de facto religion.  According to a past Supreme Court ruling, Humanism is a religion.<br />Barton  offers insight into the American founding father's perspective.  He refutes  historical revisionism about original intent with his vast reservoir of  quotations by the founders.  The Judeo-Christian contribution to American  Republic was as immense as that of the Greco-Roman contribution, for it  laid the foundation for character, freedom, moral stature and integrity  necessary for public service.  The American founders recognized that man is  endowed \\"by their Creator \\" with inalienable natural rights that exist in  spite of governmental decrees and right grants.  As a paleolibertarian, I'm  certainly aware of the dangers of an officially established or recognized  religion, just as the founders were.  Perhaps if the Supreme Court finds an  individual praying wherever he chooses to be a problem for public schools,  maybe we need \\"a separation of education and state.\\"	2000-09-13
US	51650080	R2U2M4NT8SGS84	0140432078	297670499	On Liberty	Books	3	12	26	N	N	Where liberalism went wrong...	John Stuart Mill was a liberal's liberal or a socialist's socialist- ahead of his times (or just hanging on Karl Marx's coattail.)  His utilitarian  socialist philosophy was a real u-turn away from the classic liberalism  preceeding his times.  What is particularly disturbing is that this book is  passed off by academia to represent classical liberalism. This book is good  for its historical value and studying political theory, but don't be fooled  into thinking 'On Liberty' is at all faithful or indicative of the  classical liberal or libertarian philosophy on liberty.<br />Get Liberalism  in the Classic Tradition by Ludwig von Mises to understand true classical  liberalism.	2000-08-06
US	51650080	RFJKFSB61RVWE	0820441864	395471575	The Myth of the Liberal Media: An Edward Herman Reader	Books	1	10	109	N	N	Uh-Okay... The title tells you something...	Serious left-wing denial of media's liberal leanings.  Herman is the  mouthpiece of Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting (FAIR), a liberal media  watchdog that critiques rare incidents of anti-liberalism in media.  If  you're left of Bill Clinton and Mikhail Gorbachev this book may interest  you.	2000-08-06
US	51650080	R2KZBXENYJO569	1567310141	763666725	Caesar and Christ: A History of Roman Civilization and of Christianity from Their Beginnings to A.D. 325 (Story of Civilization)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Intriguing look at West during times of Caesar and Christ	If you are a student of history, than you will like this book.  The late Will Durant is a prolific writer and historian.  This title is one of my  favorites in the Story of Civilization series.  Durant's style is  fascinating and unique, because he probes a lot deeper into history -he  offers more than a mere political history of the times.  It's no wonder so  many historians of his day were so critical - a classic case of  genius-envy. Durant's vivid prose and kind insight as a historian compelled  me to get the whole Story of Civilization set.  <br />FYI the title cover  published by Fine Communications looks a whole lot better than the old one  Amazon listed- hopefully they will update it.	2000-08-05
US	51650080	R302NGLH93V0AB	0198662521	36639274	Russia: A History	Books	2	15	36	N	N	Barely worthwhile... Classic revisionism on Stalinist crimes	As somewhat of a history buff, I bought this book for superficial reasons: neat cover and the bold ambitious title.  In hindsight, I should have read  more reviews.  This book covers Russia from early Czarist times of Ivan the  Terrible through the Sickle-and-Hammer days of the Russian Revolution. It  features a number of short essay chapters from various contributors. Like a  previous reviewer indicated, this book focuses more on the leaders and  leadership than anything else. While this might be an easy way to approach  an historically authoritarian country's history, it's not the best way.  At  times, certain chapters make for a totally dry and boring read. However,  there were some interesting insights by a few writers, but marginal in  number.<br />Considering the horrific revelations of Soviet Russia's  totalitarian past, the revisonist interpertation on Stalinism is a real  crime.  Especially since this book was so ambitious with it's 'in-depth'  probing the Stalinist era. Yet, it only glosses over the surface, while  downplaying and denying communist crimes all the way. Also it is full of  pictures, but mostly those Stalinist-era propaganda variety that hails  ambitious production and public works projects. <br />At best, this book  serves as an amateurish survey of Russian history.  You'll need the Black  Book of Communism to temper the revisionism if you get this book.  I'd like  to unbuy this book.	2000-08-05
US	51650080	R36L7YVBX6US5Y	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	1984- just rename it 2030. It's a prophetic warning...	A wake up call!! This eerily prophetic book should serve as warning to all of the horrors of collectivist totalitarianism and of the seductive snares that lead us there. This books best value is a warning against collectivist totalitarianism. It is all the more scary, because of the stark parallel between the trilateral blocs of Oceania, Eurasia and Eastasia and our world with the European Union and it's developing superstate counterparts, the American Union and Asian Union.	2000-08-05
US	51650080	R2PJ6Q21FB6Y8G	0140150951	248392330	The Portable Conservative Reader	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Good anthology of conservative thought!	This is an anthology of conservative thought put together by the late  Russell Kirk.  It features a good selection of writings from such  luminaries as Edmund Burke, literary genius James Fenimore Cooper, southern  conservatives like John Randolph and John C. Calhoun, et al.  Nothing is  featured though from Richard Weaver.  Also writings from prominent  Federalists such as John Adams, Alexander Hamilton, Fisher Ames are  featured.  However, there are NO strong paleoconservative arguments  presented favoring the American Republic over Jacobin Social Democracy.   Also, this anthology could have stood to include the writings of prominent  Anti-Federalists.  Why do they always get left out? Other anthologies  include them. Being weary of a strong central government is a conservative  tradition -is it not? Kirk isn't exactly a neoconservative  revisionist.<br />Though this anthology culminates a diverse blend of  conservative thought, it is reflective of Kirk's own unique brand of  paleoconservatism.  All in all, this is a good &quot;portable&quot;  anthology of conservative thought that starts with the Burke basics. I  might also recommend, Freedom &amp; Virtue : The Conservative Libertarian  Debate by by George W. Carey(Editor) and The Paleoconservatives : New  Voices of the Old Right  by Joseph Scotchie (Editor)	2000-08-04
US	51650080	R3I0ZBSD04CRNY	0517548232	656533858	Economics in One Lesson: The Shortest and Surest Way to Understand Basic Economics	Books	5	15	21	N	N	Hazlitt shines light on the dismal science of economics	This is perhaps the best book to introduce the layman to the field of  economics... This book was a Godsend for me... I stumbled on it in my early  college days when I was taking two semesters of Economics and neck-deep in  a Keynesian textbook of Fabian socialist fallacies and liberal lies.  Hazlitt's book opened my eyes to an insightful intellectual library that  supports free-markets and individual liberty. Economics in One Lesson  enlightened me, while it helped develop my economic reasoning. It helped me  confirm what common sense told me all along - that a laissez-faire free  market is the way to go! <br />While I already had a libertarian bent, this  book basically introduced me to the Austrian School of Thought on  Economics. The &quot;Austrians&quot; vindicate the market economy's  spontaneous order as the surest way to have optimal prosperity,  opportunity, and individual liberty for the masses. The verbal logic and  reasoning of the Austrian school is generally easy to understand and makes  sense to the reader. Needless, to say my interest in the laissez-faire  perspective grew - and I read and amassed a library of hundreds of  interrelated books on various disciplines from economics to history to  political theory. I also recommend any books by other &quot;Austrian&quot;  luminaries such as Ludwig von Mises, F.A. Hayek, and Murray Rothbard.  Hidden Order by David Friedman and Capitalism by Ayn Rand are also worth  mentioning.	2000-08-04
US	51650080	R3RE5MWFVZZOQ6	189264701X	782096985	And Not a Shot Is Fired	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Illustrates revolutionary tactics at subverting a democracy	This political tract book outlines Marxist revolutionary tactics at  subverting a democratic parliamentary government.  Thus, making a 'legal'  change to a social democracy which then erodes into a socialist  totalitarian dictatorship.  This book illustrates the 'legal' transitional  communist takeover of Czechoslavakia without a shot fired.  This is  strikingly similar to the Hitler-led NSDAP takeover of Germany in the  1930's.<br />This book should serve as a cautionary warning of how democracy  can be subverting and how the constitutional checks and balances of the  American Republic serve as a protection against this subversion (assuming  that there preserved and not subverted.) Although, it is a little expensive  for a book under a 100 pages, it is nonetheless informative.	2000-08-04
US	51650080	R1R8YI6XXN6MOF	0674076087	63813983	The Black Book of Communism: Crimes, Terror, Repression	Books	5	26	38	N	N	Evil Empire on trial!! The forgotten dead have a voice.	This book is a painstakingly researched exposition of the most democidal  and oppressive regimes in history -- those of the communist bloc.  Now the  dead have a voice as their muzzled cries long ignored by left-wing  revisionist history.  While Time magazine was making Uncle Joe Stalin  &quot;Man of the Year&quot; and FDR sold out Eastern Europe to communist  slavery, Stalin had and continued to order the butchering of his own people  by the millions.  Leftist apologists for the 20th century's most oppressive  totalitarian ideology best crawl back into their collectivist cubbyhole  when this title hits the shelves.<br />I believe People who find this book  interesting may also like: Death by Government by R.J. Rummel and Aleksandr  Solzhenitsyn's The Gulag Archipelago.	2000-08-03
US	51650080	R1JI2NGCHL2A11	0060922834	897653726	Modern Times: The World from the Twenties to the Nineties, Revised Edition	Books	5	12	18	N	N	Interesting Survey of Contemporary History	I believe Paul Johnson is one of the great historians of our time.  He  offers a refreshing narrative history of the ups and downs of the 20th  century.  He covers everything from the tumultuous ravages inflicted on  humanity by totalitarianism and collectivist ideology to man's greatest  hour of scientific discovery and technological feats.  <br />What one  considers objective in regard to history, particularly contemporary history  - is what one typically what one has an ideological bias for.  Having said  that, it is understood that most historians are &quot;liberal,&quot; so  Paul Johnson offers a refreshingly different perspective on contemporary  history that challenges the prevailing leftist culture that passes their  revisonist version of history as objective.  He doesn't play apologist to  any totalitarian regimes like the leftists do with communism.  Modern Times  is well documented and easy to read. Is it any wonder that his books are so  widely disseminated by conservatives and libertarians alike. <br />Johnson is  unapologetically biased against collectivist ideology. Is it any wonder  that his books are so widely disseminated by conservatives and libertarians  alike.<br />I also recommend other books by Paul Johnson and Tragedy and Hope  by Carroll Quigley.	2000-08-03
US	51650080	R3QSXTBO8IASFF	0465003109	949106200	The Sword And The Shield: The Mitrokhin Archive And The Secret History Of The KGB	Books	4	29	33	N	N	Interesting History of KGB!	This book is probably the most popular book on the KGB now.   I got it from my local library and read it. Like the previous reviewer said, don't  let this be your first book or for that matter the only book you read on  the topic of the KGB.  It is a multi-faceted book that doesn't have to be  read cover-to-cover to follow.  I skipped around a lot.  It is engrossing  and a page turner at times, yet dry and boring on some matters.  While V.  Mitrokhin makes light of Soviet disinformation, deception, and lies, I  don't quite go along with his perspectives (which is obviously somewhat  influence by disinformation)  on a few minor points...  Mitrokin's  revelations are however interesting. All in all, the Sword and the Shield  is an intriguing book worth a read (assuming your interested in the the KGB  Soviet police state.)<br />I recommend those interested in the KGB consider  reading The State Within a State: The KGB and Its Hold on Russia--Past,  Present, and Future by Yevgenia Albats.	2000-08-03
US	51650080	R1NFCDZ0XX02KX	0226320618	688914972	The Road to Serfdom: Fiftieth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Fundamental Reading!!	This book derails the proponents of statist ideology off their tracks.  Freedom-loving individuals in the dark about ideology, economics, and  politics had best wake up and read this book.  If you don't want the  distopian nightmare world prophesized in George Orwell's 1984, Aldous  Huxley's A Brave New World, or Ayn Rand's Anthem to every meet reality --  then wake up and smell the statism.	2000-08-03
US	51650080	R1I0MCIN1ESY02	0451147952	325358008	Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An interesting defense of laissez-faire free-markets...	Ayn Rand offers a sound moral defense of the laissez-faire capitalism, but with moral reasoning rather than theoretical or statistical reasoning. Rand makes her case that the spontaneous natural economic order of free-markets is the only social system conducive to individual liberty and the natural rights. She shreds economic myths and fallacies with her sharp wit and reason. Rand also offers a scathing, yet logical critique of an interventionist state in the economy. Rand pokes reason in the face of her collectivist critics. Collectivist pursuit of economic and social equality has left hundreds of millions dead at hands of totalitarians in the past century. It's no wonder they loathe her every word. Some of her ideas stemming from her concepts of the \\"virtue of selfishness\\" and \\"rationale selfishness\\" are thought-provoking rebuttals to radical egalitarianism, but on the same token, her critique of \\"altruism\\" is rather shallow. The essays by younger Alan Greenspan in the 1960's alone are worth the price of admission. He offered a defense of sound money... yes a pure gold standard and other essays on anti-trust and consumer protectionism. Yet today, he is Fed Chief and head of the central bank, a statist institution which personifies an interventionist socialist state. Has he grown nave about economics with age? Or has he just sold out for power? You be the judge! Beyond this book, I cannot tolerate much if any of Rand's objectivist philosophy, particularly the atheism, materialism and relativism, which isn't overt in this book. Rand's philosophy holds to a materialism on par with Marx and in her zeal against collectivism, she espouses an individualism larger than life. (I guess I give it 3.5/5.0.)	2000-08-03
US	51650080	R160AVQR8037YY	1565072685	669356670	Understanding the Times	Books	5	55	63	N	N	Superb comparison of the prevailing worldviews of our age!	A comprehensive, yet easy to understand survey of the prevailing worldviews of our day. This is the definitive reference to understanding the ideas and forces shaping our times. David Noebel rather objectively  compares and contrasts the Christian, Marxist/Leninist, Secular Humanist  and New Age worldviews. By comparing and contrasting the prevailing  worldviews of our time, it helps you to clarify your own worldview. It also  gives the reader clearer insight into the world view bias that are shaping  a New World Order. Recommended to Christians and anyone desiring to better  understand their worldview. This book isn't one you just read and 'shelf  away', its valuable as an excellent reference title which I regularly  consult.  Good reference for philosophy students as well.    Also  recommended: The Universe Next Door: A Basic Worldview Catalog by James Sire	2000-07-24
US	51650080	R79UEMPP7RJJ5	0930073193	656533858	Economics in One Lesson: 50th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Hazlitt shines light on the dismal science of economics	This is perhaps the best book to introduce the layman to the field of economics... This book was a Godsend for me... I stumbled on it in my early college days when I was taking two semesters of Economics and neck-deep in a Keynesian textbook of Fabian socialist fallacies and lies. Hazlitt's book opened my eyes to an insightful intellectual library that  supports free-markets and individual liberty. Economics in One Lesson  enlightened me, while it helped develop my economic reasoning. It helped  me confirm what common sense told me all along - that a laissez-faire free  market is the way to go!      This  book basically introduced me to the Austrian School of Thought on  Economics.  The \\"Austrians\\" vindicate the market economy's spontaneous  order as the surest way to have optimal prosperity, opportunity, and  individual liberty for the masses.  The verbal logic and reasoning of the  Austrian school is generally easy to understand and makes sense to the  reader.  Needless, to say my interest in the laissez-faire perspective grew  - and I read and amassed a library of hundreds of interrelated books on  various disciplines from economics to history to political theory.  I also  recommend any books by other \\"Austrian\\" luminaries such as Ludwig von  Mises, F.A. Hayek, and Murray Rothbard.  Hidden Order by David Friedman and  Capitalism by Ayn Rand are also worth mentioning.	2000-07-22
US	51650080	R2SQKE6PSQHQNQ	0945466269	962658847	Conceived in Liberty (4 Volume Set)	Books	5	17	28	N	N	Conceived in Liberty... You should conceive a purchase!	Anything by the late Murray Rothbard is worth reading.  He is a brilliant economist and he proves to be a great historian as well with this groundbreaking book set. Enough said.	2000-07-22
US	51650080	R2VXMA6RM7JWM6	1572460229	558197394	Liberalism: The Classical Tradition	Books	5	20	22	N	N	A brilliant defense of classical, laissez-faire liberalism..	Today, liberalism is a misnomer for an ideology advocating a interventionist welfare-warfare state. This ideology is known as socialism in Europe and the rest of the world and typically known as liberalism in America. For the better part of my life, I considered a classical liberal to be someone like say Ted Kennedy. Mises pointed me back to the pre-20th century classical liberalism... the liberalism of free-markets and individual liberty... the very same liberalism espoused by Thomas Jefferson, John Locke, and Frederic Bastiat. Classical Liberalism is among America's most venerable traditions, for it laid the foundation for everything revered by the conservatism and libertarianism of today. Mises vindicates free-markets and refutes socialism with his amazing verbal logic and innate sense of reasoning. <br />However, I find Mises' brilliant work to be just as valuable as an economics text as it is a work of political history and theory. This book is a great volume for jumping into the brilliant writings of Ludwig von Mises... Getting this book and companion volumes such as Anti-Capitalistic Mentality and Bureaucracy are a good way to gear up for Mises' magnum opus - Human Action.	2000-07-22
