US	51664778	RDBNS6QPBQ7WO	0553804154	829325009	Velocity	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Who will live and who will die?  Your choice...	Billy Wiles is an average, hard-working guy who tends bar, is devoted to Barbara, his comatose fiancee, and just wants to live a quiet life.  He has had enough drama in his past and, now, all he wants to do is bide his time until Barbara, hopefully, awakens so that they can have a life together. Like many Koontz heroes, Billy Wiles is thrust into the role.  A sociopath targets him to play a game of cat and mouse, and Billy has no choice but to play along.  How he reacts when he's tossed into the fire is what makes him a hero. In the beginning of the tale Billy does not have a very good opinion of himself.  He often doubts his ability to come out of the situation alive, or be able to protect Barbara from the monster who is killing innocent people (as a game!) all over Napa County.  But as this highly charged thriller progresses we see Billy evolve into the hero that he needs to be in order to defeat the villain.  VELOCITY is part suspense, part thriller, part mystery.  Billy has to keep his wits about him in order to identify the killer before the killer decides to make Barbara his next victim.  Some critics have said that Mr. Koontz is evolving into a writer of substance.  But I believe that he has always been a writer of substance.  I can remember the first book I read by him, LIGHTNING.  That book was also an epic tale full of meaning, and the story still resonates with me.  Like VELOCITY, it also made you think about life and the choices that we make.  Dean Koontz is my favorite writer, and with VELOCITY he simply proves that he's earned that title.	2005-06-10
US	51664778	R3Q8XISHNICK7G	0060509430	46798312	Robot Santa: The Further Adventures of Santa's Twin	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Watch out Emily and Charlotte...Bob's at it again!	Those of us who read and enjoyed Santa's Twin know that sisters, Emily and Charlotte had to save Christmas last year (the events in this story take place a year later) by rescuing the real Santa Claus after his deranged twin brother, Bob, stuffed poor Santa in a sack, dropped him into the basement, then hijacked the sleigh and reindeer.  Oh, the awful things crazy Bob left in unsuspecting kids' Christmas stockings!  This time around, Bob is repentent and tries to make amends by building a robot Santa that will take some of the burden off his jolly brother, Nicholas.  But, of course, the robot malfunctions on its first stop on Christmas Eve, Emily and Charlotte's house, and winds up TAKING instead of giving.  It's one calamity after another as Emily and Charlotte try to prevent Robot Santa from destroying their house without awakening their parents. Their dog, Woofer, loyal pooch that he is, tries to help but is sidetracked by a trained gorilla named Keith who is supposed to be piloting the sleigh but instead goes into the girls' kitchen to whip up a tasty treat.  Woofer is undone by his stomach, and follows the gorilla.  All seems lost!  Will Emily and Charlotte manage to get a message to Santa before Robot Santa turns their house into a disaster area?  This was a funny follow-up to Santa's Twin.  I wonder what's going to happen to the put-upon sisters next year.  Hopefully Bob will get some therapy.  After all, it isn't easy being the brother of someone as perfect as Santa Claus.  I loved the illustrations as much as I did the hilarious story itself.  Especially the drawing of Woofer floating through the air after a fall from the roof.  The expression on his face is priceless! LOL!	2004-12-17
US	51664778	R1QGQSSRMHWCRW	0553804146	245113934	Life Expectancy: A Novel	Books	5	201	214	N	N	Koontz can still surprise me after all these years!	In the past fourteen years, I've read everything of Koontz's that I could get my hands on and, yet, he still managed to thrill me with Life Expectancy. It wasn't the plot, nor the diabolical twists and turns.  You know, right away, when you sit down to read a Koontz book that he's going to take you on a fast, suspenseful ride.  You know that the characters will be well-drawn and that you will be frightened out of your wits and that sometimes you will laugh until you cry.  All of those expectations were met in this book.  What I got online to tell you, fellow readers, is that instead of a suspense novel that you will read in a few hours and put away, you're getting a novel that will touch you in ways you'll never forget.  And, what's more, Koontz accomplishes this by not being preachy at all.  I adored the Tock family: Rudy and Maddy and Grandma Rowena, Weena; Jimmy (who's the hero), and his wife, Lorrie (who is one heck of a heroine).  I disagree with the critic who said Koontz's humor was misplaced in this book.  I loved their humor.  As macabre as Grandma Weena's stories were, they were hilarious!  These characters had a zest for living that was wonderful.  No matter how horrible life sometimes got for them, they did not give up.  Personally, that's the only way I know how to live.  You don't give up in life, you just keep going and you WILL prevail!  That's what I love the most about Koontz's books.  His characters have human failings, but they possess indomitable spirits. You will laugh, and cry, and shout Hallelujah! when the bad guys get theirs.  An all-around rousing tale that Grandma Weena, that teller of macabre tales, would be proud of.  Some highpoints for me were: The prose--smooth as silk, concise, not a word wasted.  The fact that the story was populated by a multicultural cast.  Okay, I appreciate that in a popular novel.  It's just more realistic to me to have people from all races in a story.  Wait until you read the scenes in which Jimmy and Lorrie are in their SUV on the way to the hospital for her to give birth to their first child, when a maniac in a Hummer runs them off the road during a snowstorm.  You'll feel like you're in the car with them! Kudos, Mr. Koontz.are in their SUV on the way to the hospital for her to give birth to their first child, when a maniac in a Hummer runs them off the road during a snowstorm.  You'll feel like you're in the car with them! Kudos, Mr. Koontz.	2004-12-17
US	51664778	R349CUEVZHE4V7	0972942777	403880467	Life is Good!: Lessons in Joyful Living	Books	5	44	46	N	N	Miss Trixie tells you how to enjoy life	For certain, we weren't all blessed with her beauty or her poise, nor that glorious golden-brown hair or those big brown eyes.  But we, mere humans that we are, can still learn how to be happy, and Trixie tells us how.  First of all, you should relish every morsel you put in your mouth.  Good food is sure to lift your spirits.  I know it makes Me happy!  Secondly, getting your rest is a must if you're to have the energy to enjoy life.  So, sleep as much as you possibly can. Last, you must learn to be playful.  So many humans forget to play.  We're so busy going to work, taking care of the family, cooking, cleaning, that we neglect our playful natures.  Get back to the basics: Good food, good rest, and playing.  This lovely gift book is simply a reminder that all work and no play isn't good for a soul, whether it's a pooch's soul or a human soul.  Remember to be joyful.  The photographs of Trixie and her dad (Dean Koontz) were charming.  Trixie's obviously a very lovable canine.  Generous too, because she's donating her earnings to Canine Companions for Independence.	2004-11-26
US	51664778	RA6T8C34V6GEQ	055380250X	303170656	The Taking	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Brought every phobia I have to the surface: I loved it!!!	Someday, I'm going to research why we like being scared.  Perhaps it's because, unlike our cave-dwelling ancestors, our fight or flight mechanisms are seldom engaged.  Maybe we need that adrenaline rush, and we compensate for it by reading horror novels and watching scary movies. At any rate, Dean Koontz scared the heck out me with this new novel.  Molly and Neil Sloan are a writer and a carpenter, respectively.  They've been married seven years and are devoted to each other.  They live in the tiny California mountain town of Black Lake, population, around 2000.  One night Molly can't sleep and, as she's done on many occasions, she gets up to write until she starts to feel sleepy.  But before she sits down to write, she hears rain and goes to the window to investigate.  The rain is strangely luminescent.  While she's looking out at the rain, she notices movement on the porch.  Coyotes, chased from the forest by fear, have crowded on her porch seeking a safe haven.  Molly feels compelled to go out and stand among them.  She does, and their reaction to her is like that of your average family pet.  Thus begins a very strange story.  Molly and Neil find out that every place on earth is affected by weird weather phenomena.  Not only on this planet, but above the planet on the U.S./Russian space station, it appears that the universe has gone completely mad.  All means of communication are cut off. Molly and Neil decide there is safety in numbers, and go into Black Lake to find like-minded neighbors, only to find the town has taken on a macabre appearance.  I can really see H.P. Lovecraft's influence in Mr. Koontz's descriptions of the creatures the strange invaders brought with them to torment mankind. Mottled skin, razor-sharp teeth, incomprehensibly horrifying.  At first I was thinking that the enemy was akin to 'the ancient enemy' that appears in Mr. Koontz's, Phantoms.  But I was mistaken.  This book is stranger than Phantoms, and chilling in its intensity.  Apparently, the dead don't stay dead.  Dogs aren't the uncomplicated creatures they used to be.  Perhaps even God isn't whom you thought He was.  Other reviewers have referred to this as an alien invasion book.  One reviewer said it was Koontz's take on Armageddon.  I don't think it's either.  Whatever it is, it's top-notch entertainment.  I had a ball reading it, and I will require more sessions with my therapist.  Thanks so much, Mr. Koontz.  You're not as benign as your picture on the back cover suggests.  What are you waiting for?  Get to work on your next book.  I need another adrenaline rush!y, the dead don't stay dead.  Dogs aren't the uncomplicated creatures they used to be.  Perhaps even God isn't whom you thought He was.  Other reviewers have referred to this as an alien invasion book.  One reviewer said it was Koontz's take on Armageddon.  I don't think it's either.  Whatever it is, it's top-notch entertainment.  I had a ball reading it, and I will require more sessions with my therapist.  Thanks so much, Mr. Koontz.  You're not as benign as your picture on the back cover suggests.  What are you waiting for?  Get to work on your next book.  I need another adrenaline rush!	2004-06-08
US	51664778	R1KEXVFAFAWUXD	1583144218	285087198	To Have and To Hold (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Compelling and not-to-be-missed love story!	From the March 2004 issue of Rendezvous Magazine: Dr. Solange DuPree tries to put a comical spin on her visit to her gynecologist and finds this difficult to accomplish especially in the position she has assumed for the examination. She fears that she will have to put her dreams of having a child in the past. Rupert Giles can be very exasperating at times, but Solange feels that it would be unfair to marry him especially since she cannot give him a child. This wonderful duo must work through their personal problems as danger lurks and threatens their lives in this compelling and not-to-be-missed love story. P	2004-05-14
US	51664778	R29QZF5KCLALF4	1583144218	285087198	To Have and To Hold (Arabesque)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	From Affaire de Coeur: The dashing Rupert Giles is back!!!	We met the dashing Rupert Giles, a private investigator, and the beautiful archaeology professor, Solange Dupree, in Ethiopia two years ago in For Your Love. Solange has returned to Miami while Rupert wraps up unfinished business. That unfinished business has to do with Aziz, a criminal he helped put away but who has now escaped. Aziz is out to exact revenge on Rupert. Therefore, Solange is his target, payback for the loss of his wife, according to Aziz's twisted mind.  The agency provides protection, but Aziz is a slippery one. When Solange finds out Rupert is not completely through with the agency, her love overpowers her anger but causes tensions between the lovers. Then there is the question of Desta, the thirteen-year-old girl they wish to adopt, who is waiting in an Ethiopian orphanage for paperwork to clear.  But with Aziz hanging around they are reluctant to let her come to Florida for the nuptials.  Meanwhile, as the wedding date nears, Aziz gets bolder.  Some characters from For Your Love and Out of the Blue make appearances as well as quirky new characters including a wedding planner who is incognito, a jealous secret agent, and Marie, Solange's prissy, elegant mother.  As always, readers are treated to the witty writing style Ms. Sims is known for and a look at the cultures of Florida.<br />Dera Williams/March-April 2004 issue Affaire de Coeur magazine	2004-04-20
US	51664778	R3N3AABNAKANQG	158314465X	888454331	A Measure Of Faith	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What Will You Do When Your Perfect Life Crumbles?	From all appearances, Lynnette Montgomery (who, as a child, was abandoned by her mother but rose above it) has it all: A wonderful husband, two healthy children, a successful business, and strong faith in God.  However, what happens when she has a health crisis, and everything else important in her life seems to recede into the background?  Lynnette and Robert Montgomery reside in a small town in Georgia.  He's a builder, and she's an interior designer.  Oftentimes they work in conjunction with one another.  They have two teenaged children: Joshua, 17 and Miranda, 16.  One day Lynnette learns that she needs an operation that, she thinks, will change everything that makes her a woman.  Her husband, Robert, certainly can't understand that if she goes through with it, she'll lose something precious to her.  The stressfulness of her situation causes her to behave oddly.  She starts staying out late.  Takes up with her childhood friend who her husband thinks is a bad influence on her.  On the upside, she meets an older woman named Rose whom she begins to think of as a surrogate mother.  Rose is soon welcomed into the family and everyone comes to love her.  But a secret is revealed and Lynnette is faced with another crisis of faith.  Can she learn to give her problems to God, and not ask for them back?  Can she have the faith needed to forgive and forget?  As a woman, I could sympathize with her anguish. This is a story anyone can relate to.  A warm, sensitive portrayal of a woman in transition.  JS	2004-04-02
US	51664778	R345CK7SPFGBE5	1583144242	498280441	Let It Be Me (Arabesque)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Vera and Marcus sittin' in a tree, k-i-s-s-i-n-g!	Marcus Deveraux had been in love with Vera Jackson since he was 18 and she was 28.  But Vera was married to John Jackson, a pro-football player.  John was not faithful to her, and his caustic comments made her feel less than a woman, but Vera stuck it out.  Then, John got killed in a tragic plane crash and Vera, now a widow, continued to castigate herself with thoughts of being frigid, etc.  All because of her mentally abusive marriage.  Vera had a lot of pain to get through.  But Marcus, being the youngest Deveraux brother and possibly the most determined vowed to break through her resolve.  Vera had all kinds of reasons why they shouldn't be together, and Marcus had all kinds of reasons why they SHOULD.  It was so much fun reading about the ways he wooed her.  What woman wouldn't melt under that kind of attention?  Ms. Schuster gets better and better with each book in this series.  I cannot wait for the next book which is about Angelique and Adonis (what a name!).  This book is steamy and quite impossible to put down, so read it when you've got a large block of free time!  JS--writer and avid reader.	2004-03-06
US	51664778	R2CRJ39XY8TT4M	0060533072	23132059	Unforgettable	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Bette's debut with Avon is a real treat!	UNFORGETTABLE offers everything a diehard romance reader wants in a novel, two very likable characters, a plot that keeps you turning the pages, steamy love scenes, and just a touch of bittersweet angst.  Anna and professional football player, Gavin have known each other all their lives.  Anna had a crush on Gavin when she was a teen, and has never truly gotten over it.  However Gavin sees her only as the little sister of his best friend.  Or so Anna thinks.  One day Gavin's deadbeat dad drops by for money, and leaves Gavin a gift: His younger brother, Kyle.  Abandoned with a brother he's never known by a father who obviously doesn't care about his well-being, Kyle is one lost kid.  Gavin, however, steps up to the bat and vows to give Kyle a good home.  He will need help though.  That's where Anna comes in.  Anna owns a catering business that prepares meals for Gavin's football team, the Detroit Lions.  He sees her practically everyday.  When he asks her to watch Kyle for him when he has to be out of town on away games, and to continue to cook for the two brothers Anna doesn't have to think long before agreeing to the arrangement.  But with them in such close proximity, it isn't long before they both discover a strong attraction between them.  Attraction?  No, more like a burning desire.  You will enjoy this heartwarming tale about family, and faith, and discovering that the love of your life is right under your nose!	2003-12-16
US	51664778	R3NM9SXWCZJ461	0553802496	471304969	Odd Thomas	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	An Ordinary/Extraordinary Man	ODD THOMAS, Dean Koontz's latest novel, reads like a cross between two Bruce Willis films, The Sixth Sense and Die Hard.  Twenty-year-old Odd Thomas is a fry cook in his hometown of Pico Mundo, California (translated from Spanish: Little World).  The narrator, Odd Thomas, who sees dead people, malevolent creatures called bodachs and also has something akin to a psychic tracking system in his head, is remarkably sweet to have been raised by two very dysfunctional people.  This is due, I think, to the wonderful secondary characters who populate Odd's life: His girlfriend, Stormy; The chief of Police who is a surrogate father to him; his pal Little Ozzie a mystery writer who is in no way small at over 400 pounds; and many other lovable, if quirky characters. Koontz definitely brings home the point that we are whom we decide we're going to be, and we don't have to be negatively affected by our environment.  All through ODD THOMAS I was filled with a sense of hope, a sense of if you persevere, you WILL make it through this crazy world intact. I compared ODD THOMAS to The Sixth Sense because Odd can see dead people.  I compared it to Die Hard because Odd is an ordinary man up against extraordinary odds.  He has to race against time to prevent a disaster of epic proportions, and he must do it alone.  Koontz made me care about Odd and his friends.  I wanted him to succeed.  I cried at the unexpected ending, and as I closed the book, I wanted more stories from the pen of Odd Thomas.  In the beginning he said that Little Ozzie had admonished him to keep the narrative light.  In most instances, he succeeded, but that ending was heartbreaking.  I would like to revisit Pico Mundo, and Odd Thomas.  Perhaps Odd can go meet his aunt Cymry whom I suspect may be a bit odd too.	2003-12-15
US	51664778	RTHHTRYK8IR2V	0812966864	175759763	Love by the Glass: Tasting Notes from a Marriage	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Alcohol and I don't mix, but I still loved this book!	I'm doing research for a series of romance novels about a family of winemakers.  My friend, Gwen, recommended this book since she knew I was a neophyte where wine is concerned.  I'm so glad she did.  I learned a lot about wine, how to choose a good one, why wine changes from the moment you uncork it to your last mouthful.<br />I learned about the regions where grapes are grown, and why some grapes grow better in certain regions.  I learned that oftentimes how good a wine is depends not so much on the soil the grapes are grown in, but the patience, passion, and faith of the winemaker.  Most of all, this book is about enjoying life.  Dorothy Gaiter and John Brecher definitely know how to do that!  They're inspiring.  A truly heart-warming story.  And I didn't have one potent potable while reading it!  :o)	2003-11-07
US	51664778	R1ERJJ7CFB3RJ2	158314420X	604122435	Desert Heat (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	4 and 1/2 stars from Affaire de Coeur Magazine	Janice Sims gives her science fiction fans a fix with her well-crafted offering, Desert Heat. It has been five years since she wrote Out of the Blue, which convinced this sci-fi shy reviewer that there just might be other possibilities. In this novel, though the subject of teleportation is more of a scientific quest, the terminology and excellent research put into it will satisfy the Trekkie fans.<br />Dr. Katharine Matthews of Tucson, Arizona accepts an award for her ailing father, Dr. David Matthews, who is renowned for his quantum physics research. Kate is accosted by one of his colleagues who strongly suggests that David turn over his research so as to not heed progress. Her godfather and university Physics head, Dr. Jason Edmonton rescues her from the situation and Kate, still highly agitated from the incident, mistakes a handsome man with a gun as a terrorist at the Tucson airport when she arrives home that night. One minute Deputy Marshal Rafael Grant is smiling at a beautiful young lady with lustrous hair and a pretty smile, and the next thing he knows he has a possible broken nose.<br />Kate is horrified and embarrassed that she has attacked a law enforcement officer and offers to nurse him after they leave the hospital. There is no denying the attraction they both feel---it is too strong. In fact, Rafe leaves her house that night, rather than risk becoming involved too soon. But he is soon pulled into the lure of the Huerta women clan as he is baptized into this multicultural family.  Kate has grown up in a combined culture family, a community of blacks, Native Americans, Mexican Americans and whites. As a teenager and lover of physics, she was an outcast in high school and after her doctorate, she decided that to offset her obsession, she would concentrate on scientific writing. After her father's twelve-year research is stolen, not only is she determined to find the culprits, she knows it is time to carry on her father's work.<br />This story has a mixture of good and bad guys, interesting well-developed characters of diverse backgrounds and lots of steamy love scenes that will curl your toes. Ms. Sims gives readers great imagery of the cultures that make up the community of Tucson as well as a view into the intricacies of quantum physics as it relates to the scientific community. There is even a scene that involves early morning sightings of alien life.  This is definitely a cross-over romance that can be enjoyed by anyone.<br />Dera Williams for Affaire de Coeur Magazine, Oakland, Californiaure of good and bad guys, interesting well-developed characters of diverse backgrounds and lots of steamy love scenes that will curl your toes. Ms. Sims gives readers great imagery of the cultures that make up the community of Tucson as well as a view into the intricacies of quantum physics as it relates to the scientific community. There is even a scene that involves early morning sightings of alien life.  This is definitely a cross-over romance that can be enjoyed by anyone.<br />Dera Williams for Affaire de Coeur Magazine, Oakland, California	2003-10-31
US	51664778	R3UP807EVYPXTE	014100018X	598461998	Chocolat	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Read the book before you see the film	I saw the film before I read the book.  Ms. Harris is a wonderful storyteller.  She is descriptive to a fault.  Her prose is smooth as silk, and she is capable of pulling emotions from her readers.  Underneath the guise of bringing some joy into the dour lives of the villagers in this tale, I could not help but feel that Vianne took some satisfaction in destroying certain peoples' lives.  The town priest's, Reynaud, for example. Everyone has secrets in Lansquenet-sous-Tannes.  I suppose since I saw the film, and the intentions of Vianne in the film were harmless I thought the book was going to be the same.  It was not.  Vianne had a load of baggage.  Though her facade was lighthearted, inside she was battling many demons.  In one instance, the author alluded to the fact that Vianne might have been a kidnap victim and the woman she thought was her mother might not have been.  Yet, the topic wasn't explored any further.  Why bring it up?  And the character of Roux, the gypsy, had me totally confused.  Was he attracted to Josephine, Vianne's friend, or to Vianne?  Both, obviously.  At least the filmmakers made that point clearer.  After all this grousing you would think I didn't enjoy the book.  Not at all.  I thought it was beautifully written, and I would gladly read anything else by the author.  My point is, perhaps we should not make judgments about the course an author takes in the telling of the tale.  Perhaps we should simply read it, see how it unfolds and accept it as it was meant to be, one person's story.  However, being human, we bring our own preconceptions to the tale when we sit down to read it.  That's why those other reviewers were disappointed.  The story didn't go the way they wanted it to.  It didn't go the way I expected it to go either (after seeing the film first!)but it's still an excellent book.	2003-10-27
US	51664778	R2MRGH5OR08RNO	158314403X	135704638	One Sure Thing (Arabesque)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Mamma Lou's up to her matchmaking tricks again!!!	After matching up Madison and Tony in PRICELESS GIFT, Louise Gates, matriarch of the Gates family and known to all who love her as Mamma Lou sets her sights on marrying off her remaining grandson, Dr. Raymond Gates, jr., renowned plastic surgeon.  But who would be a perfect match for Raymond who is a determined bachelor and has warned his overzealous grandmother to keep her matchmaking skills to herself?  Keeping her eyes and ears open, the resourceful Mamma Lou overhears a conversation in the ladies' room when she's attending the theater. Finally, there's 'hope' for Raymond!  Throwing her plan into action, Mamma Lou turns up in the emergency room of Golden Heart Medical Center where Dr. Hope Adams is the physician in charge.  Raymond races to his grandmother's side and clashes with Hope when he throws his weight around.  His reputation as a brilliant surgeon precedes him, but Hope is not impressed.  She doesn't let him push her around, and Raymond appreciates that.  They are instantly attracted to one another however, due to some horrible things in her past, Hope cannot bring herself to trust any man let alone one as seemingly perfect as Raymond.  With the help of Mamma Lou and Hope's sister, Faith, eventually Raymond and Hope come to realize that the ONE SURE THING they have between them is true love.  The lasting kind.  It was fun to revisit characters from PRICELESS GIFT.  And I'm looking forward to finding out who Mamma Lou will find a match for next.  Will it be JT or the elusive Kennedy?<br />Smart, funny, and totally engrossing.  You don't want to miss ONE SURE THING!!!	2003-09-16
US	51664778	R12X0MLLN7Q180	0743470303	981646949	Secrets Never Told	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Rochelle Alers in mainstream: Oh happy Day!	Heroine Morgana learns her husband is cheating on her the very day her mother dies.  She is unsure of what to do next, but duty says she must go home to bury her mother properly.  While down south, she feels enveloped in her mother's love and after the funeral decides to stay a while in order to sort out her thoughts about her husband's infidelity.  While living in her mother's house and packing up her mother's things in preparation to sell the house she comes across her mother's hidden diaries.  One revelation after another rocks Morgana's world.  Her mother, her father, nor her favorite uncle are who she believed them to be!  Plus, she's met a local teacher/artist who has awakened passions in her she thought were reserved for her husband.  Read this novel.  It will make you think twice before embarking on an affair.  The consequences can be devastating.  Great job, Ms. Alers.	2003-09-05
US	51664778	R4YGONKMCQ5UO	0316591122	848130165	Fear Itself: A Fearless Jones Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Fearless Jones and Paris Minton make an unbeatable team	FEAR ITSELF allows you to get into the minds of Paris and Fearless.  Paris repeatedly calls himself a coward, but his behavior belies that title.  A man is not a hero because he has no fear.  A man is a hero because he IS afraid, and he does the right thing anyway.  I enjoyed the fact that both Paris and Fearless are fallible.  That makes them more realistic to me.  As the two follow clues to the fantastic conclusion of the tale, they both have to fight against impulses that tempt them to walk on the bad side.<br />Excellent book, as usual, Mr. Mosley!	2003-09-05
US	51664778	R2MU1FOB7QBUSV	158314420X	604122435	Desert Heat (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	From RENDEZVOUS Magazine	ISBN 1-58314-420-X<BR>DESERT HEAT by Janice Sims<BR>BET/Arabesque Contemporary Romance 9/03<br />Dr. Katharine Matthews, who followed in her father's footsteps and became a physicist, writes books instead of working in a lab, returns home after attending a conference.  Anxious to get home and check on her father, Katharine overhears a conversation making her think there's a terrorist right next to her.  Her only thought is to stop him before someone is harmed.  A bloody nose stopped him alright, but U. S. Marshal Rafael Grant is no terrorist and this intriguing woman has a lot of explaining to do.  Rafe and Katharine have an instantaneous attraction that's moving faster than either one of them could ever imagine.  When Katharine's parents' house is broken into and all of her father's work is stolen, Katherine agrees to work with him in trying to complete his formula before it's copied.  Her biggest worry was how her work makes her oblivious to everything around her, but her love for Rafe is strong enough to remind her of what's important.  However, Rafe hasn't learned that yet. DESERT HEAT definitely heats up the pages as the passions simmer between these two.  This is an alluring tale with a fascinating glimpse into the scientific community.  The host of secondary characters makes for a wonderful read.  DK	2003-08-30
US	51664778	R3B11RJ7232D1W	0060959037	822422067	Prodigal Summer: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Take your time and savor this novel.	Whenever I'm asked who my favorite authors are, Barbara Kingsolver always makes the list.  Why?  It's because she is consistently good.  No matter the subject matter, her voice rings true and, excellent wordsmith that she is, the end result invariably adds something new to my mental storehouse from which I get my own abilities as a writer. She is lyrical AND down-to-earth.  When she lets you see the heart of a character, you recognize yourself.  That's why I love her books.  There isn't one African American character in this novel, and yet I am able to identify with all of them.  A good author has the ability to transcend race and class.  I loved Garnett, and Nannie, and Lusa and Cole.  All of the Wideners.  The lady ranger, who found herself in lust with someone 19 years her junior, and then pregnant at 47!  Why is it called Prodigal Summer?  It's because of the way she brings three disparate story lines together at the end.  How she brings lost souls back home again.  Simply beautiful in every way.	2003-08-15
US	51664778	R1LKFS36L7HAUU	034545930X	728415237	Dancing on the Edge of the Roof	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What a hoot!	Who among us has not thought of just taking off and leaving everything behind, family, job, 'life'?  Well, Juanita, the heroine in this fine first book does that.  And as someone who has written about Montana, I don't think she could have chosen a better place to get lost in.  Talk about your quirky characters!<br />I appreciated the fact that the author was not afraid to pair Juanita with a Native American man.  Jessie, the 'Lakota man', as she referred to him.  I'd like to see more authors bring African Americans and Native Americans together in fiction.  Another point: It's often true that the best thing you can do for a spoiled child is nothing.  Let him stand on his own two feet.  Wonderful first novel, Ms. Williams.  I look forward to reading more from you.	2003-08-09
US	51664778	R2E78J9ANPMFBT	1583144234	576368095	My One and Only Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Martin and Ceylon!  Yeah, Baby!!!	Melanie Schuster just keeps getting better and better with each new book.  I was so thrilled to see a hero, a gorgeous hunk of a man, who was depicted realistically for a change.  Martin had lost an eye in an accident, and for years he wore an eye patch.  He could be my mystery pirate any time!  Ceylon was beautiful, voluptuous, and a sister who knew what she wanted, and how to get it.  How many black women do we know like that? All of 'em!  We're strong, and we're tough because we have to be.  But we're also soft, and gentle, want to be loved, and to give love in return. Ms. Schuster depicts all of this in My One and Only Love.  It's an instant classic in my humble opinion.  Tender, sexy, and compulsive reading!  A keeper!	2003-08-09
US	51664778	R1LFBR52KZ5D76	0553802488	607743484	The Face	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dean Koontz: Master Magician	In the body of Dean Koontz's latest novel it is stated that angels work 'by indirection. Encourage, inspire, terrify, cajole.'  They, 'influence events by every means that is sly, slippery, and seductive.'<br />If this is the case then Mr. Koontz, himself, qualifies for angel status.  He certainly kept this reader mesmerized, astounded and thoroughly inspired.<br />On the surface THE FACE is a thriller like no other. However when you dig deeper you'll find that it is much more than a thriller. It's a study on the depths to which the human spirit can plunge, and the heights to which it can soar.<br />37-year-old Ethan Truman is an ex-homicide detective now employed as chief of security by Channing 'The Face' Manheim, the world's most popular movie star. It's routine for Manheim to get death threats from unhinged fans. Most of them turn out to be harmless. But lately someone's been sending disturbing packages to Palazzo Rospo, Manheim's Bel Air estate. Ethan begins an investigation, and when he does he is thrust into an adventure that will test his strength of will AND his sanity. In the real world he and his ex-partner, Detective Hazard Yancy, are going through the basic procedures any good officer of the law employs in the attempt to catch the bad guy.<br />They start to question their belief systems when Ethan is killed twice (yet lives); time is folded to accommodate him, and Hazard has a similar experience.  Then, things are no longer cut and dried, they've become downright otherworldly! For one thing, Ethan's childhood best friend, Duncan 'Dunny' Whistler, (who also coveted Ethan's wife, Hannah, who succumbed to cancer five years ago), died after weeks in a coma. When Ethan gets to the morgue to say goodbye to Dunny for the last time he discovers that the body is gone, and all evidence points to the unbelievable conclusion that the body left the morgue under its own power.  Later, Ethan spots the reanimated, sharp-dressed Dunny on the town. Talk about Twilight Zone time!<br />Okay, so now Ethan has to find The Face's stalker before he strikes, plus he's spooked because he thinks he'll eventually come face-to-face with the dead Dunny. Which, believe me, he doesn't want to do.  Who would???<br />Now we come to one of my favorite characters in the book, Fric, the 10-year-old son of Channing Manheim and ex-wife, supermodel Fredericka 'Freddie' Nielander. Neither of Fric's parents is in residence for any significant length of time.  Fric is a surprisingly self-possessed child. He has adapted to being the sole Manheim in a house with a full staff. The head housekeeper, Mrs. McBee, and her husband serve as Fric's guardians in his parents' absence, which is most of the time.  He and Ethan also get along, and are becoming buddies.<br />It isn't long before Ethan and Hazard pinpoint the culprit behind the latest threats against Manheim: English professor and self-styled anarchist Vladimir 'Corky' Laputa.  Laputa is so far around the bend that he spots himself coming around the corner. Having no natural affection for anyone except himself, he is bent on destroying society by fostering chaos of all kinds.  He kills, he maims, he kidnaps and imprisons rival professors who disagree with his taste in literature, or his teaching methods, and slowly starves them to death.  But first he drives them insane.  He has GOT to be stopped.  I could not wait to see what sort of end this creep would meet.<br />Before the story concludes you will encounter angels (and not so angelic creatures). You will be on the edge of your seat praying that your favorite character survives to the end of the tale. And, yes, you will shed a few tears.  But this story is worth the spent emotions. I laughed and I cried.  One of my favorite scenes was when Dunny appeared to Hazard on a rainy night. Dunny materialized out of a puddle and later vanished right back into the puddle.  In THE FACE angels travel by mirrors and, apparently, via puddles.<br />DK hooked me frompage one.  He made me care about Ethan, Fric and Hazard.  The description of Hazard Yancy sounded like the heroes in my stories and, frankly, made me wish Hazard could have his own book.  I'd be the first in line to buy it.<br />Another wonderful story, Mr. Koontz.  Bravo!page one.  He made me care about Ethan, Fric and Hazard.  The description of Hazard Yancy sounded like the heroes in my stories and, frankly, made me wish Hazard could have his own book.  I'd be the first in line to buy it.<br />Another wonderful story, Mr. Koontz.  Bravo!	2003-06-16
US	51664778	RSJK1NI9MA727	0425181111	742127435	Strangers	Books	5	115	122	N	N	I've read this book FOUR times!	I've just finished reading STRANGERS for the fourth time.  And, undoubtedly, I'll read it again and again.  When I checked out some of the other reviews I was astounded that some readers didn't like this story.  They thought it was too long!  Good Lord, it wasn't long enough!  Or the ending wasn't feasible.  Maybe it's because I love science fiction that I could appreciate the ending, and find it thoroughly believable.  What happens in this story, dear ones, is that several people from varied backgrounds, who all come from different places, start manifesting strange symptoms that eventually draw them to a motel in the desert where they all stayed last summer. You see, something happened to them at the motel.  And someone has erased their memories.  However, like a bad penny, the memories start resurfacing and begin to affect each person: sometimes positively, sometimes negatively.  I think Dean Koontz is at the top of his game with this story.  His power of description is magnificent.  And his ability to make you care for his characters is on the money.  I just loved Ginger, the young Jewish surgeon who goes into a fugue state whenever something reminds her subconscious of the night her memory was erased.  And Jorja, the Vegas waitress whose daughter is obsessed with the moon.  Once again, Koontz's female characters show strength and resilience.  His male characters aren't bad either.  There's Dom, the writer, who wakes in the middle of the night in the closet and doesn't know how he got there, nor what he's so afraid of that he nails his windows shut while sleep-walking!  And there's Jack, the thief, who just makes your heart ache when he has to say goodbye to his wife who has been in a coma for many years.  I could go on and on about this thrilling story.  But I won't because I want you to read it for yourself.  If you like a story that grabs you by the seat of your pants and takes you for the ride of your life, a story that's written by a master of suspense who knows how to get your heart pumping, then this book is for you.  I'm truly baffled by those negative reviews.nows how to get your heart pumping, then this book is for you.  I'm truly baffled by those negative reviews.	2003-04-08
US	51664778	R2QZ7D8YYVR9RS	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Strange but wonderful	This was my 3rd Gaiman book.  At 461 pages (I read the hardcover version), it was long.  Fortunately, I like long books if they are interesting, and this one was. I've been a fan of the old mythological tales since I was around five years old.  The idea of the gods having actually existed is not new.  Many people already believe that the mythological gods are based on people (not supernatural beings) who actually lived.  There are so many different versions of the birth of the world, for example.  There are stories about a messiah in various religious ideologies worldwide.  Or the All-Father, whether you call him Jehovah, Allah, or Odin.  But even if there are similarities in these tales does it lessen the impact for believers?  No, we still have faith in our gods.  Thanks, Mr. Gaiman, for including 'gods' from the African diaspora, Anansi and the Queen of Sheba.  Though I could never think of her as half-demon. Previous reviewers have adequately described the plot and the characters.  I'd like to comment on this writer's ability to paint a vivid picture in the reader's mind.  And to evoke myriad emotions in the reader, as well.  I read the book over the course of a week.  Each day, I looked forward to returning to it. The main character, Shadow, was a hero to the core, in my opinion.  Though he was presented with many opportunities to go the wrong way, he invariably tried to do the right thing.  He's like many of us: We are tossed about on the sea of life, and we survive, sometimes, by the skin of our teeth but we persevere anyway.  I liked Shadow a lot.<br />Well, who can recommend another Gaiman book for me to read?  So far, I've read Neverwhere, Stardust and this title.  I gave all of them five stars.	2003-03-26
US	51664778	R3SOBSNP3U0Z4W	0970010249	435882214	The Princess of Kaya	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A West African 'Romeo and Juliet'.	Dorothy A. Atabong's debut novel is unique in that it offers the reader a glimpse into African royalty during war. In West Africa, the island nations of Kaya and Tekland have long been bitter enemies. At the opening of The Princess of Kaya, the princess Violette, whom everyone simply calls 'Kaya'after the country she will one day rule, is returning home from England.  She is being educated there, but now she is home for a visit.  Or so she thinks!  Shortly after she arrives on Kayan soil, her entourage is ambushed and, out of nowhere, a hero materializes and risks life and limb to save her life. The hero is Aadil. In the midst of their escape, Kaya and Aadil are drawn to each other. After he delivers her safely to her father's palace, Kaya insists he come in and meet her father. Aadil adamantly refuses, which puzzles Kaya.  Why doesn't he want to meet her father?  The reader learns the reason why later on.  He disappears into the night.  Kaya believes she'll never see him again.  However Aadil returns several days later, under the cover of night, and steals into her bedroom. Thus begins their love affair.  Ms. Atabong is generous with her descriptions of the customs and traditions of the Kayan and Tekland peoples. The setting is beautiful and detailed.  So much so that the reader can easily visualize the exotic locales. The emotions of her characters are also richly interwoven in the tale. We are a party to the indecision Kaya feels when she must choose between the man she is passionate about (Aadil), and the man her father has chosen for her to marry, the prince of Bashir, Anthony.  I don't want to give away key elements in the tale because that would detract from your enjoyment of it. Suffice to say that there are secrets galore, intrigue, and plenty of drama. Ms. Atabong shows a great deal of promise as a writer. More than that, she's a good storyteller.  Janice Sims, author of FOR YOUR LOVE.	2003-03-19
US	51664778	RZKDWY3JTUM8V	0451406869	561998138	The Rake	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Simply Fabulous	Thanks Mrs. Giggles for recommending this book.  It was as wonderful as you said it was.  I really liked the fact that the hero was flawed (like real men), and the heroine was tough and resilient (like real women). What can I say that many others haven't already said about this marvelous book?  It's inspired me to try my hand at a historical novel.  Great writing, Mary Jo Putney!	2003-03-19
US	51664778	R23JM124LZLSGV	0679843361	190613100	The People Could Fly: American Black Folktales	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Excellent! Especially when read aloud.	I read this to my daughter, Rachel, and she really enjoyed it.  She smiled throughout the entire book.  She loved the animal folktales about Bruh Rabbit, and Bruh Fox.  She trembled with delight at the reading of the scary tales.  As for her mother, my favorite was the title tale, The People Could Fly.  It was magical!	2003-03-19
US	51664778	R2THCR28XCU8H6	0380804557	26552478	Stardust	Books	5	3	3	N	N	LOVED IT!...	My second Neil Gaiman book did not disappoint.  Tristran Thorn goes on a quest to find a fallen star and, boy, is he in for an adventure!  Stardust is a fairy tale for adults.  That's already, undoubtedly, been said.  There is magic, treachery, pathos, witches galore, and all other manner of magical creatures great and small.  What I loved about the book was the prose.  It went down so smoothly that I read this book in a matter of hours.  Now, I'm geeked-up to read AMERICAN GODS.	2003-03-09
US	51664778	R9DPEGDU8LR10	0380789019	511174865	Neverwhere	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	I Love The Way This Author Thinks!	Neverwhere was my first Gaiman read.  I thoroughly enjoyed watching Richard Mayhew transform from somewhat of a slug in the early chapters, into a hero.  Gaiman's imagination is boundless.  The manner in which he described 'below London' was unique and written with abandon.  There were surprises around every corner.  His villains were truly vile, and his heroes were truly heroic.  Although some of the characters kept you guessing as to whose side they were on, ultimately this is a good-versus-evil story.  Previous reviewers have given you the gist of the story.  I'd just like to say I feel I've discovered a diamond in Gaiman.  He's now one of my favorite writers.  I'm reading STARDUST next.	2003-03-09
US	51664778	R267SHGA76X3D8	1583143823	840686817	Candlelight and You: Valentine Love\Wait For Love\Seventy-Two Hours & Counting (Arabesque)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Magical, Sensual, and Heartfelt	What a lovely way to spend Valentine's Day in preparation for a night out with your sweetie.  Ms. Esdaile weaves a magical tale around a gift shop owner and a radio executive.  I thoroughly enjoyed the 'angel' in the form of the little old lady who visits the shop one day and gives our heroine a tiny golden angel.  Then, things reallys start heating up!  What an artist Ms. Schuster has proven to be.  In her story, WAIT FOR LOVE, she makes me believe in second chances.  A misunderstanding between two shy souls in college turns into a fiery love affair many years later when they meet again. Curt is an ex-basketball player turned coach.  Janice is an interior designer extraordinaire.  Once the air is cleared and the misunderstanding is explained sparks are ignited.  What chemistry!  And in Linda Walters'tale a long-time boyfriend has to sit up and take notice because his lady is tired of being ignored.  Every man should get this kind of wake-up call just to make sure he's still interested.  All three stories were delivered is different styles with varying degrees of spice.  All were romantic.  All were excellent reads.  Arabesque continues to get better and better where their anthologies are concerned.	2003-02-12
US	51664778	R27R95UJ8JVWO	0374527350	826207107	Lucy: A Novel	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Is Lucy the same character as Annie John?	While reading Lucy I was constantly reminded of the character, Annie John, in Ms. Kincaid's book of the same name.  I read Annie John first, and both characters, Annie John and Lucy had a lot of similarities.  Both were rather disaffected.  They both loved and detested their mothers.  It appears as if Lucy is a sequel to Annie John.  However the author never admits this.  After reading two of Ms. Kincaid's books I find her style of writing to be clear, concise.  I think she's very talented.  However I didn't understand why both characters, Annie John, and Lucy had so much hatred for their mothers or the world in general.  Neither of them seemed to have particularly hard or tragic lives.  In fact, they were loved by their parents, were never starved, nor molested as children.  I simply don't see why they're both so very unhappy.	2003-01-27
US	51664778	R3AR58KIX1E8Y3	0553801430	977865510	By the Light of the Moon	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Still the Master of Suspense	What I like about Dean Koontz is that no matter what he writes about, whether it's evil bioethicists or your everyday sociopath, he manages to imbue his stories with his own unique style and spirit. You know his hero and heroine are going to be thrust into a life-threatening situation.  You know you're in for a roller-coaster ride, but you also know that along the way you're going to laugh, cry and express every emotion known to man. The action in BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON is rapid-fire.  Everything happens within the space of twenty-four hours. Reminiscent of INTENSITY, another favorite of mine. Dylan, Jilly and Shep are injected with a mysterious golden serum and, almost immediately, begin exhibiting strange powers like precognition, and the ability to fold space and time.  Wow!  As a science buff, AND a science fiction buff, I was thrilled when I learned WHY Dylan, Jilly, and Shep were suddenly blessed with superhero powers.  And the scene in the church, toward the end of the book, when the three try to prevent a terrorist attack,is one of the best Mr. Koontz has ever written.  Astonishing.  I loved every minute of this book. I didn't want it to end, and when I finished it I was sorry I'd read it as quickly as I did. I'm looking forward to his next book with high expectations.  It's going to take a lot to top this one.  But, you know, I have a feeling that he can do it with the third installment of the Christopher Snow series.  I miss Chris.  Hint, hint...:o)	2003-01-12
US	51664778	R28B9CCI5FW4IH	157566917X	533770852	True Lies	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Margaret Johnson-Hodge is on target, as usual.	I never forego a Margaret Johnson-Hodge book. I've come to expect the type of stories that make me examine my own values from her.  She doesn't disappoint here.  Rick, a decent man who has a child by Gina but whose relationship leaves a lot to be desired, meets Dajah.  Dajah seems to be everything he needs in a woman. Rick is honest with Dajah from the beginning, telling her about his daughter, Kanisha, whom he calls his heart, and of the unfinished relationship with Gina.  Dajah 'does not share' and tells him if he's ever 'free' to give her a call.  From that point on the author illustrates how profoundly intentions can affect people's lives.  Rick gets caught up in his own good intentions.  Wanting a life of his own, but not wanting to hurt either Gina or Kanisha, he makes choices that leave him, Dajah, Gina and Kanisha tied together in a drama that will be played out to the end.  But will his and Dajah's love survive?<br />I was caught up in these people's lives from the very beginning, and each time I opened the book to continue reading, I waited with breath held to find out what would happen next.  The ending<br />was unexpected, but made perfect sense to me.<br />This story is about choices and how they affect our lives.  It's also about the power to recreate ourselves.  Ultimately, it's about reclaiming the dreams we had for ourselves, but thought were lost.	2002-12-22
US	51664778	R1FK7Y9L43VGDC	1583142436	467672502	For Your Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	From RENDEZVOUS magazine	Dr. Solange DuPree, an archaeologist, is in Ethiopia assisting friends to reclaim their daughter from kidnappers. She becomes re-associated with the dazzling Rupert Giles, a British man with an iffy past. They agree to tour together for several weeks. During that time stranger-than-fiction events begin to happen. Exciting and informative!  Excellent insight into Ethiopian history. SC	2002-10-03
US	51664778	R2M6PTS86L3IUZ	1583142436	467672502	For Your Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Sims gets into the psyche of her characters	Reading a Janice Sims storyline can be easily compared to sailing the high seas--calming and soothing one minute and rumbling and restless the next as the novel moves swiftly through its action. For Your Love is not exactly the easiest book to characterize by simply saying it's a romance, and the same is true of the main character and the supporting cast. There are the fractured relationship of Dr. Solange DuPree, 34, with her Haitian-born mother; the calamitous aftermath of her ruptured engagement to her previous fiance; and her emotional turmoil over her inability to conceive a child of her own. She seems to be both a victim and the heroine of her circumstances. Enter Rupert Giles, 38, a man who seems to be the hero of her fantasy incarnate/embodied in flesh and blood, and Solange is at a loss to tell him of her inadequacies before their budding relationship blossoms into a fullblown love affair. It seems Rupert does not take intimacy lightly. He prefers that there be an emotional attachment as well. The last time Solange told a man about her infertility, the relationship became ugly and abusive. So here she is in Ethiopia with plans to research the location of the Ark of the Covenant, which is believed by the people to still be sequestered somewhere within the country's borders. If she can pinpoint the location, she can see her reputation enhanced with her superiors and peers at the University of Miami, where she is a professor of archaelogy. Rupert, whom she met earlier at the university while he was investigating an insurance incident (see A SECOND CHANCE AT LOVE), thinks this is an ideal time for them to get to know each other if their relationship is to move foreward, so he takes a vacation to accompany Solange across Ethiopia. Rupert brings his past along with him on the jaunt. He was adopted by a white couple when he was a toddler and his single birth mother could no longer care for him. Though he knows his adopted parents loved him, he's been haunted mostof his life by the fact that he was an oddity at school and in their neighborhood. The complexity of these two lovers trying to find their rightful place in each other's lives affects both Solange and Rupert. Solange grapples with her secret throughout the weeks they are together more so than Rupert does over his problem surrounding the death of his birth mother and never having known his biological father. She however finds herself sliding down a slippery path to stand on love's ground or to leave Rupert and face loneliness. But when she is kidnapped and faced with the realization that she might not see Rupert again, she learns that the risk of losing his love is worth taking a chance at happiness. Thus, she rethinks her choice even while feeling conflicted and vulnerable. The author has a distinctive writing style, which promises no lack of an audience clamoring for this and other stories that Sims leaves little doubt she is capable of producing. However, For Your Love is not without its flaws. For one, Rupert is too American-sounding rather than sounding more like a Brit--his mother tongue. In one instance, Rupert says, \\"You don't have to thank me for something I take such pleasure in. Besides, you're not very high-maintenance.\\" Then, he says, \\"Give a guy a break, and say yes, already!\\" There are other faux pas such as these in the book. Also the ending feels unfinished as though the author already has a sequel to the story in the works. Even with these minor blunders, the author has written a pleasurable novel, which this reader likes because Sims has gotten into the psyche of her characters and exposed their heartfelt emotions while painting a vivid image for her readers. What Sims has invested in producing For Your Love is experienced between writer and reader, and the reader is the better for the encounter. Emma J. Wisdom reviewer for the Chattanooga Courier, Nashville, TN.  Edition: week of September 2, 2002. Pages 3, 5.	2002-09-17
US	51664778	R3VIRSYCA5GQCA	158062748X	668919784	Cup Of Comfort F/Women	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	These Stories Will Make You Laugh, and Make You Cry	This was my first CUP OF COMFORT experience.  I bought it because my friend Dera Williams has a story in it, and I wanted to read her story about quilting as a legacy.  Well, I thoroughly enjoyed Dera's story, and then I started reading the book from the beginning and was quickly pulled in by the beautifully told stories by women who, although just like me, each had her own story to tell.  Stories that uplifted me, and made me think of life's possibilities. I highly recommend this book to any woman who needs a little inspiration to kick-start her day, or week, or year!	2002-09-02
US	51664778	R3M2VJF5NJG09G	0595228259	917140532	Whatever It Takes:  A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Vee Garcia Keeps Getting Better and Better	Kudos to author, Vee Williams Garcia, for writing a tale that had me glued to the pages and kept my attention from start to finish!<br />Janice Sims<br />Author of FOR YOUR LOVE	2002-09-02
US	51664778	R1LDL0GV5934KP	1583141537	877744404	A Second Chance At Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Sims Writes With Passionate Momentum	Janice Sims has written a story of love, family togetherness, and kidnapping underscored with action and a subplot involving mysticism surrounding seven fertility gods and goddesses. In A Second Chance at Love, the author's writing is articulate, sensitive, and tender. In this sequel to All the Right Reasons, Sims chronicles the lives of main characters Toni Shaw and Charles \\"Chuck\\" Edward Waters, along with their twin daughters Georgie and Bree and their significant others. The story unfolds in the cities of New Orleans, Boston, and San Francisco and in several locations in Africa. Before her transformation from social activist to single mother of twin daughters, she now is , at fiftysomething, Toni Shaw the noted author. She had gotten pregnant her freshman year at Berkeley and given birth to Georgie and Bree, who are an attorney and actress, respectively. The twin sisters are 33 years-old. Chuck abandoned Toni when she was pregnant because of his fear of reprisal from his elitist parents. Now, three decades-plus later, he is back in Toni's life, wooing her as he'd more relentlessly done in their youth. He's a changed man after realizing some years ago the error of his ways. He's out to prove to Toni he's changed. But can Toni believe him? For one thing, Toni is afraid of what her family and friends will think of her if she allows Chuck to steal her heart once again, especially after vowing to stay away from Chuck under all circumstances. Trust, of course, is at the core of her wavering, and she wonders if she should dare trust him after the callous manner in which he behaved years ago. As they are gradually mending bridges that separate them, Toni finds herself succumbing to his charm until he pops the question: \\"Will you marry me?\\" Toni throws herself into her work and flees to research who's behind stealing the fertility gods and goddesses in different locations around the world. Her first stopover is in Miami and eventually to Africa. Chuck knows she is trying to avoid giving him an answer. So the question has him in a quandary thinking, should he follow her or wait for her to return to his arms? Then Toni is notified that Bree has been kidnapped on location where she is shooting a film. How the villains associate Toni and Bree is somewhat of a stretch of plausibility. Nonetheless, at this point, everything else takes a back burner. However, at the same time, the author speeds up the action. However, readers won't get the answer to Chuck's question, or who kidnapped Bree, or the answer to the disappearing fertility dolls until the climatic moments when all answers are provided and wrapped up into a tidy package. In A Second Chance at Love, Janice Sims writes with passionate momentum. (From reviewer, Emma J. Wisdom of the Chattanooga Courier. September 10, 2001. Pages 3, 5.to avoid giving him an answer. So the question has him in a quandary thinking, should he follow her or wait for her to return to his arms? Then Toni is notified that Bree has been kidnapped on location where she is shooting a film. How the villains associate Toni and Bree is somewhat of a stretch of plausibility. Nonetheless, at this point, everything else takes a back burner. However, at the same time, the author speeds up the action. However, readers won't get the answer to Chuck's question, or who kidnapped Bree, or the answer to the disappearing fertility dolls until the climatic moments when all answers are provided and wrapped up into a tidy package. In A Second Chance at Love, Janice Sims writes with passionate momentum. (From reviewer, Emma J. Wisdom of the Chattanooga Courier. September 10, 2001. Pages 3, 5.	2002-08-13
US	51664778	R3INQ8E831R14T	1583143629	488063990	Lucky In Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Lucky to have discovered such a wonderful writer!	LUCKY IN LOVE is one of those novels you simply don't want to end.  I started it Friday night and finished it Saturday night. After a night out on the town with my husband, no less!  Melanie Schuster's command of the written word had me riveted to the pages.  It's been a long time since I enjoyed a story as much as this one.  The previous reviews have given you the gist of the story.  Andrea Benita Cochran meets Clayton Arlington Deveraux and sparks fly.  However, they have many obstacles to overcome.  Benita, or 'Bennie' has an overbearing father in media magnate, Big Benny Cochran.  I love it when a heroine is not a mamby pamby sort who kowtows to the men in her life.  Benita stood up to her father and laid down the law.  Ms. Schuster has an exquisite eye for detail.  And a wonderful sense of humor.  I laughed aloud in the middle of the night, waking my snoring hubby. Tears, too, were evoked time and time again.  I adore a story in which I laugh, cry and talk back to the book.  Benita and Clay were a marvelous couple who deserved the happiness they fought so hard for.  I also enjoyed their families, especially Benita's gorgeous brothers.  Clayton's brother, Martin, got my attention.  I hope Ms. Schuster writes about him sometime in the future.  He was very intriguing because he'd been disfigured in an accident, subsequently dumped by his beautiful wife, and he'd withdrawn from the world.  I'd like to see some gutsy woman make him believe in love again.  Also, Benita's best friend, Renee, and Benita's twin brother Andrew were standout characters in this marvelous book.  Hot describes the chemistry between those two.  Whew!  I could go on and on, but you get the message.  Read the book.  You won't be disappointed.<br />Can't wait for Ms. Schuster's next book!	2002-08-04
US	51664778	R2KB8EVQAK37F	0553801376	598224178	One Door Away from Heaven	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Loved the ride, ready for another one!!!	I never rush through a Koontz novel because I know it will be months before I get my hands on another one.  So, I can't speak to it keeping me up nights in order to finish it because I intentionally read only a few chapters a day.  In this way I can extend the pleasure derived therefrom.  Something like Sting does with sexual enjoyment when he employs the mechanics of yoga.  But,I digress.<br />What has brought me back to Koontz book after book is his ability to marry horror, suspense, AND sincere human emotions into one smooth read.  I've read other authors who were good writers of horror, or suspense, but who lacked a sense of hope in their stories.  I'm like most of you, my life isn't perfect.  I'm the mother of a special needs child, my day is full of mundane work and my relatives are driving me to distraction.  It's wonderful to read about people who are facing challenges similar to what I'm going through but who manage to survive it.  That gives people like me a boost.<br />Another reason I read Koontz is because the women in his books are fierce!  His female characters empower me.  And they're realistic.  I don't know any weak, turn-her-ankle-and-get-killed types.  Women fight back in a Koontz novel.<br />Here's a rundown of what you're in store for: Shapeshifters, good and bad. Indomitable cyborg warrior-women--ur,girls. Dogs aplenty. Psychopaths galore.  Vile bioethicists.  Sweet movie buffs.  Angry insectile aliens. Golden retrievers (gotta have at least one of those pups).  Triumphant human spirit.  Nail-biting suspense. Oh, did I mention twin pistol-packing showgirls?<br />Thanks for the entertainment, Mr. Koontz.  Can't wait for the final book in the Christopher Snow trilogy, hint, hint!	2002-01-24
US	51664778	R1SNRKP23NWCZX	158314319X	794579805	Love In Bloom: Love Masquerade\Forbidden Fantasy\Teachers Pet (Arabesque)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	All Three Stories were GOOD!!!	Francine Craft starts off this anthology with a story about two people who knew each other in high school.  Maya Williams is now a health food store owner.  She's divorced and doesn't hold out much hope of meeting anyone.  Christopher St. John is also divorced with a young daughter and he's like-minded.  Of course we know that true love will change their minds.  Good job, Ms. Craft.<br />Linda Hudson-Smith's story is about a social worker, Ashleigh Ayers who has had a crush on football hero Austin Carrington practically all her life.  Whom do you suppose she meets on a Caribbean cruise?  None other than Austin!  Lovely story, Ms. Hudson-Smith.<br />Rounding the anthology out is Janice Sims's story about a literature professor at a historically black college, Bethany Porter, who becomes reacquainted with Colin Armstrong whom she knew when she was seventeen.  Twenty years later they're two different people but sparks fly whenever they're in a room together.  Will she have the nerve to act on it? Any loyal readers of Ms. Sims's books know you're in for a lot of laughs, and passion.  Ms. Sims does not disappoint in this keeper!<br />For loyal Sims readers: The novella in this anthology connects with A Very Special Love (Gabriel and Kiana's story) and This Time Forever.  Gabriel and Kiana appear in all three stories!  I love connecting stories.<br />Arabesque came through with this anthology!	2002-01-22
US	51664778	R1HAN9CCKXHL4E	0060294884	592950092	The Paper Doorway: Funny Verse and Nothing Worse	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Don't be a ghoul...stay in school.	My daughter, Rachel, and I  got a kick out of the adventurous Oddkins about animated toys on the loose one dark and dreary night.  We laughed until milk came out of our noses when we read the frightfully funny tale, Santa's Twin about an imposter Santa who leaves obnoxious things like snot in kids' stockings.  In Rachel's opinion the more obnoxious, the better.  So we were excited about the release of The Paper Doorway.  Her favorite poem is Peg-Leg Zeg about a pirate who loves picking at crocodiles and subsequently gets several appendages eaten.  What can I say, the kid has a weird sense of humor which, I suspect, she inherited from me!  My personal favorite is A Cure For Ugly about a man who was horribly disfigured on the outside, but beautiful on the inside.  What a wonderful way for collaborators, Koontz and Parks to get across the fact that books are the doorway to a kid's imagination and so much more. Dean's rhymes were exceptionally witty at times and poignant at others.  Phil's illustrations beautifully complemented Dean's words. They're a winning team as evidenced by their long association, and the quality of their latest project, The Paper Doorway. Wholly delightful!	2001-11-02
US	51664778	R1ALC45HQ8AND3	1583142428	298924285	This Time Forever (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Taut mystery, tightly woven plot	From Rendezvous Magazine October 2001 issue: Damascus, Florida--Chief of police Kerry Everett has her hands full when a murdered man is found in the city's junkyard. After Kerry does some investigation, she decides she needs to send for the FBI. Special Agent Maceo 'Mac' Kent is as surprised as Kerry is when he shows up in Damascus. They had once shared more than military training. Mac doesn't want to interfere in Kerry's investigation as she knows the townspeople better than he does. But he doesn't want anything to happen to Kerry either. So he works closely with her so they can find the murderer before he strikes again. A taut mystery with compelling characters and a tightly woven plot. JP	2001-10-22
US	51664778	R1UU5JYLW38WOP	0970342802	389092310	Between the Giant Twin Oaks	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Wonderful Family Saga	Sweeping from the eighteen hundreds to the present, this novel of one black family from Arkansas is beautifully written.  The emotions contained in these pages will grip you from the beginning and hold you in their thrall until the very end. The Riley men did not look at the ground when in the presence of whites like their brethren.  Because they didn't kow tow to racists they earned a reputation for being uppity or crazy (from whites) and brave (from fellow blacks).  Riley women were strong, they had to be to support such strong men. Charlotte Ellis Maxwell is an author to watch. She is a storyteller with the power of the African griot.  You know you're reading her words but, somehow, it's almost as if she's personally whispering the tale in your ear.  I certainly hope this story gets wide recognition because it deserves it.	2001-07-17
US	51664778	R1DRMWP7Q186Y8	0553801341	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Breathtakingly suspenseful...and beautiful.	Don't rush through From the Corner of His Eye, because when it ends, you will dearly miss the well-drawn characters.  The review above has already told you what the book's about.  Let me tell you how it makes you FEEL.  In the beginning, you are absolutely mesmerized, shocked, horrified by the actions of the villain, Junior Cain.  His actions are often inexplicable.  Evil is present in the world.  Especially in Junior's diseased mind! <br />However, good is also present in the persons of Agnes Lampion, her son, Bartholomew 'Barty'.  Koontz's books always deal with a battle between good and evil.  We loyal readers know that.  He has gone a step further in From the Corner of His Eye, writing so compellingly that you MUST know how evil is finally vanquished in this tale.  The story is populated by wonderfully quirky secondary characters, such as Agnes' brothers Jacob and Edom whose lives have been stunted by an abusive father, but through the love of their strong sister, they find redemption.  <br />I have to mention this: The African American family, the Whites were a welcome addition to this story.  I've been an avid reader of Mr. Koontz's novels for years and to see myself represented in this book was a thrill for me.  Of course he's had African American characters in Strangers, Sole Survivor and Phantoms, but in this book he really depicted the characters with an unsurpassed depth of feeling.  I wish more popular authors would incorporate African American characters in their novels.  It's only realistic, as we live in a multi-cultural world.<br />From the Corner of His Eye was such an emotional read for me that I'd read a few chapters each night, put it down then go back to it the next day.  Some part of me sensed I'd be sad when it ended.  And I was!	2001-01-10
US	51664778	R2TAP5TR71OYVL	0553801341	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Breathtakingly suspenseful...and beautiful.	Don't rush through From the Corner of His Eye, because when it ends, you will dearly miss the well-drawn characters.  The Amazon.com review above has already told you what the book's about.  Let me tell you how it makes you FEEL.  In the beginning, you are absolutely mesmerized, shocked, horrified by the actions of the villain, Junior Cain.  His actions are often inexplicable.  Evil is present in the world.  Especially in Junior's diseased mind!<br />However, good is also present in the persons of Agnes Lampion, her son, Bartholomew 'Barty'.  Koontz's books always deal with a battle between good and evil.  We loyal readers know that.  He has gone a step further in From the Corner of His Eye, writing so compellingly that you MUST know how evil is finally vanquished in this tale.  The story is populated by wonderfully quirky secondary characters, such as Agnes' brothers Jacob and Edom whose lives have been stunted by an abusive father, but through the love of their strong sister, they find redemption.<br />I have to mention this: The African American family, the Whites were a welcome addition to this story.  I've been an avid reader of Mr. Koontz's novels for years and to see myself represented in this book was a thrill for me.  Of course he's had African American characters in Strangers, Sole Survivor and Phantoms, but in this book he really depicted the characters with an unsurpassed depth of feeling.  I wish more popular authors would incorporate African American characters in their novels.  It's only realistic, as we live in a multi-cultural world.<br />From the Corner of His Eye was such an emotional read for me that I'd read a few chapters each night, put it down then go back to it the next day.  Some part of me sensed I'd be sad when it ended.  And I was!	2001-01-10
US	51664778	RKAK2ALTTPTXA	0553801341	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	5	28	37	N	N	Refreshment for a weary soul!	From the Corner of His Eye was a Christmas gift from a very dear friend.  I bless the day I met him.  I'm sure he sent it to me because, knowing my situation, he felt it would touch me.  He simply didn't know how much!<br />The plot of the book revolves around a miscreant by the name of Junior Cain (no plot spoiler there, it's in the review from the publisher). Junior commits a heinous act and, in the commission of that act, he sets in motion a chain of events.<br />Of course Junior isn't right in the brain, plus he's a devout follower of a bent pop psychologist who must have earned his degree from ICTY (I'm crazier than you) University.  A saner person wouldn't have been looking for signs and portents in everything that happened to them.  However Junior isn't sane.<br />Junior commits the heinous act that sets everything in motion before the story itself actually begins.  The first violent act the reader is a witness to is his pushing his lovely bride, Naomi, off a fire tower.<br />From there poor Junior is hospitalized with emesis, or projectile vomiting.  Seems he has a conscience after all.  But where did it come from?  He definitely doesn't admit to having one.  At any rate, he is visited in the hospital by Detective Tom Vanadium who appears not to believe Junior's grieving husband pose. This distresses Junior mightily, since in his mind he hasn't done anything wrong.<br />While the wrung-out (from all that vomiting) Junior is somewhere between sleep and wakefulness, he murmurs the name Bartholomew.  The name strikes terror in his heart for some reason. In his depraved mind all he knows is that Bartholomew must be destroyed.  He is his mortal enemy. Of course he doesn't figure out why until toward the end of the book.<br />Miles away in Bright Beach, CA and San Francisco, two women are giving birth.  One is Agnes Lampion, mother to Barty.  The other is Seraphim White, mother of Angel.  They come from disparate backgrounds.  They have nothing in common except both births were preceeded by great tragedy.  Yet, before this wondrous tale ends, they are interconnected in ways no other human beings have ever been! <br />From the Corner of His Eye had all the elements I love in a good book: suspense, lots of action, science (quantum physics), alternative universes.  Wonderfully moving characters that drew emotions out of me and even a few tears.  And yes, laughter. Agnes Lampion's brothers, Jacob and Edom were so endearing in spite of their dark takes on the world.  And I love it when a woman fights back. You'll enjoy it when Celestina White does just that with Junior Cain.  I was cheering her on!<br />A very satisfying experience.  Mr. Koontz, you've surprised me yet again!	2001-01-05
US	51664778	R362Y9DWKQWG6U	1885478135	444611960	Nowhere to Run (Indigo Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Totally Engrossing Read	Ms. Gunn definitely put her heart and soul into Nowhere to Run.  From the very first sentence the reader is catapulted into the world of Cassie Lee and Solomon. With a sharp eye for detail and the ability to write beautiful imagery, she really delivers! In a time when African Americans had absolutely no rights as human beings, her characters showed the kind of strength and resilience worthy of hero worship.  Yes, Nowhere to Run is romantic and sensual (for you diehard romance readers).  However the author displayed the kind of depth we've come to expect from so-called 'serious' reads, the kind that top the New York Times Bestseller lists.  I've seen books that make that list which truly don't live up to the honor.  Nowhere to Run should have been there when it debuted. But perhaps you, the reader, can get the word out now: THIS BOOK IS A MUST READ!!!  'Nuff said?	2000-11-29
US	51664778	R3PSQFL9KQG4Q7	0312264844	166096163	Butterscotch Blues	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Some Love, Some Joy, Some Pain...Sometime	After years of searching for the man whom she can spend the rest of her life with, Sandy Hutchinson finally meets Adrian.  Adrian of the butterscotch skin and golden eyes.  It's true love. But can true love survive a severe shock to the system?  Margaret Johnson-Hodge handles the subject of love in the New Millennium with a deft hand, a knowing heart and a poetic voice.  How deep is your love?  Deep enough to withstand the threat of death every time you try to express it?  Deep enough to stand by your man when he no longer has that butterscotch skin you covet so much? A very powerful work of fiction!	2000-10-05
US	51664778	R1LKD5PZ42H0VT	0553582941	191153164	Sole Survivor	Books	5	26	31	N	N	One of my favorite Koontz books	I love Sole Survivor for the simple reason that it's well-written and displays the human spirit at its best!  Joe Carpenter has lost his wife and two little girls in a catastrophic plane crash.  No one survived.  Or so he believes, until he's visiting his family's gravesite one day and encounters the 'sole survivor'!  Rose Tucker is that person.  Petite, with an ethereal beauty, you wouldn't expect her to possess the strength of will she demonstrates in this story.  The mystery is set, the chase begins, and Joe is racing toward a denouement that will blow his mind, AND the readers'minds as well.  Koontz at his best.  By the way, I saw the FOX network miniseries.  It was good. Intensity is still my favorite miniseries, but that didn't take anything away from my enjoyment of Sole Survivor.  Now I'm hoping that Mr. Koontz will do Lightning as a theatrical release.  Years ago, when I read Lightning, it was my opinion that Rutger Hauer would make a wonderful Stefan, the anti-hero in Lightning.  Now, I'm thinking Russell Crowe...An idea worth putting out there!	2000-10-03
US	51664778	R2HQGQE32RLX9F	0393039803	644561006	Free City: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Perfect Little Purple Book	I read Free City two years ago, and I've recently reread it simply because  I wanted to experience the beauty of Eric Darton's language and ideas once  again.  The altruism of the unnamed inventor (I think of him as Leonardo)  versus the open, selfish greed of his benefactor, Roberto, makes for a  brain-twisting, delightful allegory of good and evil.  How far will the  inventor go to thwart Roberto's lust for power?  And is Adela a witch?  And, if so, is she a good witch or a bad witch?  And what of the duck? Why  was HE blessed with speech when his brethren can only quack?  Mmmm? Makes  one wonder.  Which is why I love this book.  If you want to exercise those  sluggish brain cells, read this book.  Also, to the publisher:  I can  understand why this book is sold-out.  What I don't understand is why you  haven't reissued it yet!	2000-08-15
US	51664778	R1KQYHQEL9X79E	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	3	5	6	N	N	This book had so much potential!	Because I enjoyed The Silence of the Lambs, I really looked forward to Hannibal.  And given the amount of time the author put into the tale, I  truly expected something magnificent.  In some ways, it is.  Mr. Harris  writes with clarity, with an eye for the minute detail and also beautiful  imagery.  However there is no consistency in the behavior of main  character, Clarice Starling.  Some of the things he had Clarice doing I  would never have imagined her doing in a million years.  Don't let me get  started on the amount of gratuitous violence...I'd be here all day.  Just  suffice it to say this book is possibly the most gross piece of literature  I've ever had the displeasure of reading.  It seems the author wanted us to  feel sympathy for the monster, Hannibal Lecter.  I have no compassion for a  man who eats his fellow man. I'm truly sorry I couldn't give this five  stars.  If I were grading it solely on the writer's ability to compose  wonderful sentences, paragraphs, I'd indeed give it five stars.  But a  writer has a responsibility do much more than entertain.  There is no human  feeling in this book.  If you like suspense and horror, I suggest you read  a Dean Koontz book.  He's an excellent writer of this sort of story, and he  manages to write with compassion.  The end of this tale is a travesty!  I  do not write spoilers.  But see if you don't agree with me.  I felt totally  cheated with this sophomoric effort at riding off into the sunset and  ,frankly, thought both the writer and Clarice Starling had lost their  minds!  No, I definitely don't recommend this read.  And I'm not putting my  name on this review because I don't want my close friends to know I read  Hannibal!	2000-08-03
US	51664778	R2ZHMO46N3Q3GH	0374464898	960555705	Stories for Children	Books	5	64	65	N	N	Just as magical as the Harry Potter books!	Over the years I've read this book to my daughter several times.  As most children, she has her favorites and never tires of those.  You've got demons and witches and holy men who fight evil.  You've got moral lessons  that teach without preaching.  All written with compassion and a deft hand.  Adventure abounds.  Excitement rules the day. You'll find yourself speaking  with a Yiddish accent in spite of yourself!  And, me, an African American  woman!  Good books know no color. Pure magic.	2000-05-18
US	51664778	R163IT81SZI2II	1559724781	208432183	50 Black Women Who Changed America	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Inspiring Collection of Biographies	Sonia Sanchez, Betty Shabazz, Zora Neale Hurston, Florence Griffith-Joyner.  What do these women have in common aside from the fact that they're all African Americans?  Answer: They've all contributed to the  positive image of black women in America, and around the world.  Buy this  book for your home library. It's a wonderful reference book.  Buy it  especially for your daughters.  They can read a story a week and by the  time they're finished with the book, they will have a fairly good idea of  the glorious strength and resilience of black women.	2000-05-04
US	51664778	RQ7LWHEEIY0IX	0451406273	469778882	Gal: A True Life	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Riveting...Impossible to put down	Written in the author's language, this book was extremely powerful.  Her story is at once horrifying AND inspiring.  You know that if she could survive everything she did, you will also make it through whatever crisis  your life's challenged by at the moment.  Mothers, get this book for your  daughters.  Daughters, get this book for your mothers.  You won't regret  it.<br />The author's last line, comparing herself to the sunflower, was so  beautiful, &quot;It follows the sun.&quot; That's what she chose to do,  look for the good in life instead of dwelling on her past.  Bravo, Ms  Bolton!	2000-05-04
US	51664778	R314PXCQQ9XB49	044652171X	844479653	A Love Supreme: Real Life Stories of Black (African-American) Love	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Absolutely Sublime!	These stories touch the heart.  So many times the fact that black families love and cherish one another is glaringly absent in the media.  We hear all about the negative aspects of black life.  Well, now we've been served up a healthy dose of positive love.  Bravo!  I enjoyed the stories about  celebrities. But I also truly appreciated the stories about everyday  people.  I applaud the Stovalls.	2000-04-29
US	51664778	R34K9P7JLN2HKG	0425115801	134454761	Lightning	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I read it in 1990.  I STILL love it!	Lightning was my first Koontz experience.  I'd never read anything remotely like it.  Suspense, science-fiction, drama with a touch of romance.  I thought Koontz was a genius and my opinion of him has just gotten better over the years.<br />Who among us wouldn't like to have a guardian angel who protects us and loves us?  I fell in love with Stefan.  And Laura has the strength of character all of Koontz's heroines seem to  possess.  That's another reason I love his books, they're so life-affirming  for women.  You simply feel good about yourself after devouring one of his  novels.  Of course that isn't to say that a male reader won't feel just as  good!	2000-04-29
US	51664778	RYXCWCKMBTZVM	078600245X	638432714	Choices (Arabesque)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Will She Resist Temptation?	Chaney is lonely.  Her husband is a world-famous singer.  She's left home with their two small children, Nicole and Ronnie, more often than not.  Enter her first love, Taurique.  Will she be strong enough to let go of hurt feelings and keep her eyes on what's truly important in life, namely  her husband and their children or will she be led by a momentary lapse in  judgment?  Ms Corley did a good job in illustrating how CHOICES can have  lingering effects on our lives.	2000-04-03
US	51664778	R369B428MU4BYH	0312972938	763184963	Warm Hands: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	What Makes Us Behave the Way We Do?	What struck me first about Warm Hands was how personal and poetic the prose was.  The narrative is so intense you will be caught up from the initial breathless words.  Margaret Johnson-Hodge delves deeply into the  character, Mya , a woman who, just like us, only wants to be happy and she  equates happiness with finding a soul mate.  When she lucks upon Jeff I am  elated for her.  However Ms. Johnson-Hodge has a few gut-wrenching changes  in store for Mya.  All I will say is, if you've ever contemplated cheating  read this book first.  It's an eye-opener! Warm, rich, powerful and poetic.  Don't miss this keeper.	2000-03-02
US	51664778	RSMY7UHKSP4TX	055310666X	284106836	False Memory	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Most Morally Wicked Villain Since Edgler Vess!	False Memory had all the elements a good suspense novel must have in order to hold my attention: a riveting plot, characters I care whether they survive till the end or not, and plenty of nail-biting tension.  From the  beginning I was swept up in the lives of Martie and Dustin Rhodes, two  people just trying to be as decent human beings as they possibly can be in  a chaotic world. When their world starts to inexplicably crumble around  them several clues lead them to Martie's friend Susan's psychiatrist, who  Susan thinks is her sole salvation.<br />Dr. Mark Ahriman made my skin  crawl.  The explanation for his reprehensible behavior is given in the end,  but by that time you simply do not care WHY he became the way he is, you  just want the earth to be rid of him!  DK goes, deep, deep into the psyche  of this character.  Too deeply for my particular comfort zone.<br />The  writing is sharply detailed, gloriously descriptive.  You see the action  through the eyes of the characters. You feel their emotions. False Memory  kept my nerves on edge much like Intensity did.  DK is a master of  'in-the-moment' narratives.  You are definitely in the moment!<br />So, if  your heart can take it, read False Memory.  But take an aspirin  first...Just in case!	2000-02-23
US	51664778	R3CA5JEQXEJN6Q	0786005327	344349773	Heart's Desire (Arabesque)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Riveting!!!	I don't want to be a plot-spoiler.  I want you to read this novel for yourselves.  But, I WILL say that if you like a fast-paced novel that grabs  your attention from the beginning and doesn't let go until the very end,  then this is the book for you.  Kara and Brent are a very human couple.  Their first meeting is unconventional, to say the least! Everything about  this novel is unusual, which is why I liked it so much.  Ms. Jackson isn't  afraid to push the envelope.  It's not your average romance novel.  These  characters don't always behave according to societal rules.  But then  real-life is not cookie-cutter perfect.  Nor is Kara or Brent.  They have  their problems, and they overcome them.  Very inspirational for those of us  who like a dose of reality in our modern-day fairy tales.  Excellent job,  Ms. Jackson!	1999-10-23
US	51664778	R2XYE8X2YQ71O9	0786006072	634359079	Beyond Desire (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Exquisite!	Beyond Desire was my first Gwynne Forster read.  It was an excellent choice because I believe I was afforded the opportunity to experience this  author at her best...As evidenced by the previous reviews!  Ms. Forster  goes deep, deep into the very heart of her characters.  You not only  witness their actions, but you also have a front row seat to the reason WHY  they behave the way they do.  Amanda and Marcus both have wounded souls.  It is an absolute treat to watch them draw ever closer, as their love for  each other comes to the surface.<br />Bravo, Ms. Forster!	1999-10-23
US	51664778	R2WJNE4OBQYR61	0446404853	318754277	The Devil's Hatband	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	It'll Keep You Guessing Till The Very End...	The Devil's Hatband is my first Robert Greer novel.  A friend who reviews for a California-based magazine told me about him since she knew I'm interested in the mystery genre.  CJ Floyd is a character that gets to your  heart.  I know some folks like their detectives (CJ's a bounty hunter, but  you'd just as well call him a detective) hardboiled.  CJ is tough but also  a thinker.  I like that. Mr. Greer wrote a very believable tale about the  cattle industry in a time when a comment from Oprah can throw them into an  uproar.  I never realized how cutthroat the cattle business could be.  And  Mr. Greer peopled his novel with memorable folks like Billy Delong, Dittier  Atkins and Morgan Williams broken down ex-rodeo cowboys whom I hated to say  so long to.  And Mavis, CJ's on-again, off-again lady who had HIS number  but still liked to call sometimes.  Fresh, lively and thoroughly  entertaining.  I'm ordering the other CJ Floyd mysteries.	1999-09-03
US	51664778	RSJ39TVGIHOGC	158314031X	471298002	When Love Calls (Arabesque)	Books	5	9	25	N	N	In A Word...Sublime!!!	For an athlete, a personal best is when she beats her own best time, or effort.  For Gail McFarland, When Love Calls is her personal best.  She's outdone herself!  All her previous titles have been wonderful. I know,  because I've read every one of them. When Love Calls surpasses wonderful  and moves on to the sublime.  All of her characters are richly drawn.  This  is the sort of story that pulls you in and wraps you in its seductive  embrace.  Not a word is wasted.  Every expression is beautifully wrought  and expertly executed. I especially enjoyed the conversations Davida and  Marcus engaged in.  For me, the ability to bring characters to life depends  upon what they say to each other.  The dialogue will ring true to your  ears.<br />When Love Calls made me laugh and cry.  On a personal note:  Davida Lawrence and I share the trait that was mentioned in this wonderful  novel.  I hate to give a plot away, so suffice it to say, Ms. McFarland did  her research, medical and otherwise.  Don't miss this novel, because your  friends will be talking about it for years to come.  I know I'm telling  everyone I care for about it!	1999-07-29
US	51664778	R2U4S72EZS0AQF	0786005157	636068265	Bouquet (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Lovely Trio of Love Stories	Bouquet was indeed a pleasure to read.  Roberta Gayle's story makes one think twice about what friendship between a man and a woman could really be.  Anna Larence's tale was warm, comical and spoke to the possibility of  love when you think all hope is lost.  And Gail McFarland's was a lesson in  expectations.  Who knows?  Maybe you'll walk into a flower shop one day and  meet your true love.  Bravo ladies!  Great job.	1999-07-15
US	51664778	R1ECP6HE35UI6Q	0786005610	935266897	The Best for Last (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	In a word: FABULOUS!!!	I know romance novels usually end on a positive note.  It's a prerequisite, right?  But, this tale had me on the edge of my seat, wondering if it would have a happy ending, or not.  Great writing, great  visualization, superb characters.  Noelle and Jamal are so good together.  I'm waiting to hear more about Pat and Morgan.  Pat was the best friend of  all best friends!  This story has suspense, drama, a tight plot.  Read it,  I'm sure you'll agree with this lowly reviewer's opinion.	1999-07-15
US	51664778	R3H587LU0C9JVZ	0786004363	817558377	Summer Wind (Arabesque)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Must Have For All Gail McFarland Fans!	I thoroughly enjoyed this romance/mystery set in the Arizona desert.  Ms. McFarland's use of imagery is exquisite.  I could see the lush resort, Summer Wind, in my mind's eye.  And her characterization was superb.  Even  the minor characters leapt off the page.  But Keira and Jesse(what a man!),  well they were perfectly matched.  Keira could have been seen as just  another poor little rich girl, but the author was wise enough to develop  her character and let her be revealed as a warm, caring, down-to-earth, and  earthy full-bodied woman.  No cliches here. I believe Summer Wind was Ms.  McFarland's first published novel.  If so, then she did a great job, and  she has a fan for life.  Check it out.	1999-07-08
US	51664778	R229CDUI79PIW1	0553574272	622900824	Whisper His Name	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Wonderfully told suspenseful historical romance	This was my first Elizabeth Thornton novel.  It took me a while to navigate through the language as I'm not an historical romance fan.  I usually read contemporary novels.  But Ms. Thornton is a skilled  storyteller, and, soon, I was engrossed in Abbie Vayle's life, her growing  love for Hugh and their adventure.  I didn't know those Victorians were so  recklessly passionate!  Bravo, Elizabeth Thornton.	1999-06-07
US	51664778	R1E1NXHRL7VF3Q	0684829673	484029130	Caught in a Rundown	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Terrific Screwball Comedy-Mystery	Caught In A Rundown is a wonderful debut for author, Lisa Saxton.  It's hard to believe this is her first novel.  Jewel Averick and Dee Sweet, both unlikely sleuths, are like a couple of bulldogs with their teeth in a juicy  steak once they latch onto the Two-Mile McLemore mystery.  The exchanges  between characters in this novel were always sharp, witty and kickin'.  A  delight throughout.  I especially liked Jewel's extremely hip grandparents.  Reminded me of my own.  If you're the type of reader who likes a good  brain teaser with the added bonus of a rollicking adventure then this is  for you.  Be warned however: you won't want to put it down.  And when you  do, your mind will be on the story, the characters, and what they could  possibly be up to next.	1999-05-31
US	51664778	R2JO7HV6WQI0PI	0786002255	152213182	Delicious (Arabesque)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Tasty Mystery !	This novel helped me to decide to work for this line of books.  Delicious is the story of Bailey Walker, a caterer, married to Sam, one splendid example of male pulchritude.  Bailey is satisfied being a wife and mother  to her daughter, Fern, until her best friend, Mary Lou, is found dead.  Bailey is immediately suspicious.<br />The manner in which Shelby Lewis  combines sleuthing with winning recipes is unique.  The book was a nice  mystery novel as well as a romance.  It reminded me somewhat of Like Water  For Chocolate by Laura Esquivel, the way she weaved recipes into the  telling of the tale.<br />The love scenes between Sam and Bailey are  passionate and touching.  We don't often read of married couples, still  deeply in love with one another.  And the scene where the ex-husband shows  up wanting to make trouble for one of the girlfriends and the women are  prepared to take off their shoes and get down in defense of their friend,  well, that was one of the funniest scenes I've ever read.	1999-05-29
US	51664778	R2NXMZZJK7GLDU	0786006048	729454733	A Resolution of Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Will Keep Your Attention From Start To Finish	A Resolution of Love begins with three friends preparing to go to a New Year's Eve party.  You get to know these friends, heroine, Daryl, friends Audrey and Margo, intimately. I was impressed with Daryl's single-minded  faith that there was a Mr. Right out there just waiting for her.  The  girlfriends'conversations on this subject were hilarious.  At the party,  Daryl meets Sheldon Turner, ex-basketball player, and one stunning fellow.  Daryl's smitten, Sheldon is in lust! The tale Ms. Thomas weaves around  these two characters is mesmerizing.  I began the book just as I retired  for the evening and didn't stop reading until I'd reached chapter twelve,  and my eyes were too grainy to continue.  It's just that compelling.  And  then there's the character, Malle, an ex-girlfriend of Sheldon's who simply  doesn't know when to quit.  You won't soon forget her.  Excellent job,  Jacquelin Thomas.  You go, girlfriend!	1999-05-26
US	51664778	R2ZG29FBKWSEP0	0312969155	520972512	A New Day	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A rich, warm, powerful urban Cinderella story	Choices, we all make them.  This is a tale of choices, some good, some bad.  I could sympathize with Carol-Anne's struggle as a single mother.  Becoming a single mother, though, was a decision she made with her eyes  wide open.  The consequences were what she hadn't fully thought out.  She  is a heroine with whom we can all identify.  Occasionally, her love for her  daughter, Nadia is her one redeeming quality.  But, we still love her.  Max, the prince in this tale is also a fully flesh and blood human being.  He has his faults, but you never doubt, for one minute that he isn't loyal  to the very bone.  I loved this story.  I even enjoyed the peripheral  characters, like Carol-Anne's mother, Clarice;  her daughter, Nadia's best  friend, CeCe and last but not least, the feisty, Tina, Carol-Anne's best  friend from Spanish Harlem.  A wonderful novel.  Don't miss it.	1999-05-09
US	51664778	RR4JTCOL79QFP	1583140204	92441190	Pieces Of Dreams (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A Fitting Follow-up To A Private Affair!	I loved the way Max, Taylor and Quinn all got the opportunity to tell their sides of the story.  I could feel Max's pain at having to reveal a secret that could possibly alienate Quinn forever.  I could sympathize with  Taylor, who had been there for Max when she needed him most, and then to  feel betrayed by her choices.  And Quinn...his grief and anger were  palpable things.  This is a powerful, sensitive, well-written addition to  Donna Hill's oeuvre.  Don't miss it!	1999-05-07
US	51664778	R21QYXZQIG3432	0671897527	986759686	Digging Up Momma	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Two Thumbs Up...And A Toe!!!	This is my first Sarah Shankman book.  I like her style.  Mystery laced with black humor.  We've got to laugh at ourselves, right?  I do have one question, however:  Why Earl?  That's all I'm going to say on that matter.  Don't want to spoil the plot for those who haven't enjoyed this delightful  book yet.  Samantha's a kick in the head.  New Mexico, a great locale.  Check it out.	1999-04-05
US	51664778	R3S6CJ4A0CF0MB	0553106651	294009896	Seize the Night	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Dean Koontz...the way I like it!!!	All right, I perused the other reviews and I have a bone to pick with some of them.  It seems to me that if a writer doesn't adhere to a certain method, some readers become disillusioned.  In my opinion, Seize the Night  is one of the best novels Mr. Koontz has written.  I enjoy his sense of  humor, and, yes, I also enjoy the fact that he's infusing more spirituality  into his prose.  There is more to suspense than blood and guts.  Make us  think!  DK does that.  I say this was a rip-roaring, tasty, side-splitting  monster of a novel.  I can't wait for #3 in the Christopher Snow series.	1999-04-03
US	51664778	R2WOLSPA7MZWRC	055309971X	621617883	Cat on the Scent	Books	4	0	0	N	N	I still love Mrs. Murphy, Tucker and Harry, too!!!	I've enjoyed all of Rita Mae Brown's Mrs. Murphy novels.  I'm a Southerner; perhaps the setting reminds me of the small town I grew up in.  I withheld one star because I had the feeling that there was something  missing in this tale.  Less grit, less enthusiasm?  I can't put my finger  on it.  I would still recommend it to you Mrs. Murphy fans out there,  however.  And I look forward to any upcoming Mrs. Murphy novels.	1999-04-03
US	51664778	R1UFPD4YNO7GY2	0345366239	16404674	The Eight	Books	5	0	0	N	N	65 reviews already, but what the hey!!!	I loved this book when I read it over two years ago.  I still love this book.  I reread it every few months for inspiration.  You see, I'm a writer.  I figure if I read this superb novel every so often, maybe, just  maybe some of Ms. Neville's genius will seep through the pages and  miraculously join with my DNA.  Wishful thinking.  The Eight had everything  I enjoy in a book, heart-stomping adventure with a mixture of romance and  intrique.  Yeah baby, this is a winner, and if you don't read it, you're  missing one of the best novels ever written.  Great art, Katherine Neville.	1999-03-24
US	51664778	R30BB2HWH8AWR	0786002778	392104288	After Hours (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Love strikes when you least expect it!	I thoroughly enjoyed After Hours.  Nachelle could be hardnosed, but soft.  She knew what she wanted and how to get it.  And then Steven comes along and she, at first, doesn't know how to categorize him.  Will he be friend,  or foe?  Well, the attraction between them is so powerful that getting  physical with the enemy isn't at all an unpleasant prospect!  Ms. Larence  is a good writer, and I hope to see many more books by her in the future.  Bravo, Anna.	1999-03-17
