US	51686698	RO1A4CF6MFHXF	0671877542	942641623	The Ship Errant	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Tidying up old business and going where no brain has gone.	Of the five books that have been written in the Brain & Brawn series by Anne McCaffrey and various co-authors, my favorite was \\"The Ship Who Won,\\" the direct prequel to this title.  So when I saw that co-author Jody-Lynn Nye had penned a solo follow-up, I naturally bought it.  One critic says of it on the back cover that \\"Anne McCaffrey should be proud,\\" and I'm sure she is. <br /> <br />Carialle, for those unfamiliar with the series, is a \\"brain\\"--a human being born so badly malformed that her only hope for survival was to be encased permanently in an artificial environment and trained to become the guiding force of a space station or (in her case) a spaceship--a Central Worlds explorer-craft whose mission is to \\"seek out new life and new civilizations,\\" as Star Trek had it.  After lengthy training, she chose a \\"brawn\\" (a normal person who could act as her arms and legs)--Keff, a romantic and amateur linguist with a weakness for holographic adventure games like Myths and Legends--and they set out on what will be a 25-year partnership.  In the previous book, they discovered the planet Ozran, where two lost colonies--one human, one of the amphibioid Cridi--co-existed and shared a Cridi technology known as \\"Core\\" which permitted feats that would seem magical to nontechnological races.  Now they have been assigned to carry a Cridi delegation home to their world of origin and invite the mother culture to become members of CW.  What they didn't realize before they left Ozran was that the Cridi homeworld is close--literally painfully so--to a region of space where Carialle once suffered a catastrophic mishap which nearly destroyed her then ship-body, and was (or thinks she was) boarded and stripped by beings she was never able to identify.  Upon re-entering that region, she suffers flashbacks which lead Inspector-General Maxwell-Corey to conclude that she is insane and should be removed not only from the mission but from service entirely.  But Cari's not giving up withouta fight, and neither is Keff.  When the CW ship sent to relieve her is attacked by a pirate craft, they realize that Carialle's memories were accurate, and take off in pursuit of the pirates.  Cridi friends old and new join their quest, which leads eventually to the discovery of yet another sapient race, the griffin-like Thelerie, and to Carialle's vindication when the pirate ringleader is captured. <br /> <br />What I liked best about this book were the Cridi and the Thelerie, two delightfully original and well-realized alien species.  The Cridi, tiny but lionhearted creatures that resemble common Earth frogs, speak in both vocal and sign languages and have been struggling for 50 years to get their space program back on track, unaware that the reason for their zero success rate is that the pirates, lurking in the outer regions of their system, destroy every ship they launch.  The Thelerie, who live in the neighboring solar system, are the innocent tools of the pirates (or Melange, as they call themselves), recruited for their unfailing ability to tell where they are in relation to their homeworld (and doubtless for the kind of innate grasp of piloting skill that would come naturally to a flying people); they also change sexes according to need, like the people in Ursula K. LeGuin's \\"The Left Hand of Darkness.\\"  Keff and Cari's skillful and compassionate campaign to demonstrate their error to them, help them make friends with the Cridi and vindicate themselves by helping in the defeat of the Melange show clearly how well these partners have learned their lessons and how smoothly they work together.  This is a quick-moving tale of first contact and space-opera adventure that should appeal to all lovers of sf.	2005-01-10
US	51686698	R170M4IOOU9VT2	0671878611	252627357	The Ship Avenged (Brainship)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	The Jack of All Trades grows up	In this authorized sequel to McCaffrey & Stirling's \\"The City Who Fought,\\" it's 10 years since the barbarian spacegoing raiders the Kolnari captured Space Station SSS-900-C and were sent scurrying with tails between legs by Simeon, the Brain that runs it, and Joat, the 11-year-old technodemon who lurked in its conduits.  In gratitude, Simeon and his Brawn, Stationmaster Channa Hap, adopted Joat and saw that she received an education.  Now Joat is out on her own, a dropout from Brawn school with a small ship called \\"WYAL\\" (for While You Ain't Lookin') and her very own AI, Rand, who, while not a Brain, functions almost as well as one. <br /> <br />Unfortunately the Kolnari have neither forgotten nor forgiven their defeat, and their warlord, Belazir t'Marid, has succeeded in acquiring a virus that attacks the cognitive centers of the brain and, in effect, brings on a kind of artificial Alzheimer's Disease.  To spread it, he must create a human carrier, then return that carrier to his own planet and wait for the virus to do its work.  The carrier he selects is Amos bin Sierra Nueva, Prophet and leader of the religiously-oriented colony world of Bethel, which played a major role in the Kolnari defeat a decade before.  So that Amos can't warn his people of his state, Belazir injects him with a paralyzing agent and advertises, through his underground contacts, for a free ship to carry his \\"package\\" home.  The \\"WYAL\\"--which, unknown to Belazir, has been hired by Central Worlds master spy Bros Sperin to look into the man Belazir uses as a contact and fence--responds, and in short order the fate of Bethel, Station Simeon, and much of the civilized Galaxy hangs on Joat, Rand, Sperin, a Sondee scientist named Seg !T'sel, Joat's one crewmember Alvec, and Amos's close friend and head of security, Joseph. <br /> <br />Anyone who liked Han Solo should be pleased to make the acquaintance of the adult Joat, who is just as shifty and morally ambiguous as the world's most famous Corellian and even better with techie toys.  And the Kolnari, like the Imperials who were Solo's bugaboo, are a race of villains you love to hate--utterly evil, yet in a way comprehensible.  Seg the Sondee--a romantic with James-Bondworthy dreams of the glamor of espionage, \\"working on an opera in his spare time\\" (as practically every Sondee is), and a highly skilled medic and computerman--is another great original character.  Though the romantic attraction between Bros and Joat seems rather forced, the story itself is convoluted and fast-moving, with lots of military throwaway such as might be expected from Stirling.  A good entry into the Brain & Brawn series.	2005-01-10
US	51686698	R21ALPHW9YP1AB	0152049118	408310979	A Wizard Alone: The Sixth Book in the Young Wizards Series	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wizardry still surprises	The wizard of the title could, in fact, be any one of three.  A month after her mother's death, Nita Callahan, middle-schooler, is still struggling with depression and has lost much of her former interest in magic.  So, when a new young wizard's Ordeal extends past the three-month mark (a sign that it may be \\"stuck\\"), her Senior, Tom, asks her partner Kit Rodriguez to look into the situation, on the theory that a single man inquiring about a boy he's not related to might be seen as suspicious, but another youngster would hardly be noticed.  To Kit's astonishment, Darryl McAllister turns out to be autistic, and, like most autistics, trapped in his own Universe--or is he?  When Kit and his dog Ponch contrive to enter Darryl's reality, they gradually learn that not only is the Lone Power--the foe of all wizards--in there too, doing Its best to destroy Darryl before he can come into his true power, but that Darryl already has an idea of who and what he's dealing with and has been constructing one Universe after another to keep It occupied and out of the \\"real\\" world.  Meanwhile Nita finds herself being contacted in dreams, at first obtusely symbolic, by someone she thinks at first is an alien but eventually turns out to be her partner's case--because, as she theorizes, they've both built \\"walls\\" against the world.  And as Kit's task gradually begins to take him over, Nita discovers that not only *must* she serve as his backup, she *wants* to. <br /> <br />Slightly darker and more mystical in tone than earlier volumes in this excellent series, \\"A Wizard Alone\\" also offers some delightful moments of humor (Kit's ongoing struggle to get his family's new DVD player and the remote to stop shouting abuse at each other), surprise (as when Nita's therapist unexpectedly reveals that he knows some people who are on errantry--that is, wizards), and intriguing mystery (Darryl's suggestion that he can see \\"what Ponch is turning into\\"--something I hope Duane intends to amplify upon in future volumes).  And in the end its message is one of hope, as always seems to be true of Duane's allegorical and fascinating stories.  A unique entry into the series.	2004-11-09
US	51686698	R2GBR3GKLT4RMS	0064404773	611302574	Beauty: A Retelling of the Story of Beauty and the Beast	Books	5	1	1	N	N	McKinley starts out as she means to go	This was Robin McKinley's first publsihed novel, and it sets the tone for the many fairy-tale and legend retellings she has turned out in the 25 years since.  Honour Huston, somewhat incongruously known as Beauty (though she's lanky, plain, and an incurable bookworm), is 15 years old when a series of business reverses force her family (widowed father, two older sisters, and herself) to auction off almost everything they own and retreat to a tiny cottage in the country, at the edge of a dark wood mysteriously barren of all animal life and, according to the whispers of the villagers, enchanted.  Two years later, her father is on his way back from an errand when, lost in a blizzard, he stumbles upon a mysterious castle.  Its owner, a hideous Beast, threatens him with death for plucking a rose from the garden, then relents: if one of his daughters will freely consent to come and live there, no more will be said.  Beauty pragmatically observes that the family will lose the least if she is the one to go, and so she does.  As the months go by, she slowly comes to care for the Beast, and at last to love him.  And in true fairy-tale style, it's her love that breaks the enchantment.    McKinley's greatness lies in the way she fleshes out the traditional tale, giving life and backstory to the characters, making them seem understandably motivated and therefore real.  Although she seems to set her tale in 18th-century England rather than in France, and despite the fact of Beauty's plainness, there are several elements in it--like the description of the Beast and the animate furniture and vast library in his castle--that make me think Disney's staff read this version before they commenced work on their animated one.  Anyone who loves fairy tales or romance, from preteens up, should enjoy this book.	2004-10-26
US	51686698	R2GAA8LG8IOVV2	006101561X	101480626	Cat Seeing Double: A Joe Grey Mystery (Joe Grey Mystery Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Life goes on, and so does murder	Molena Point, CA, is the home of three sentient cats: little Kit, who, though over a year old now, is still impulsive and filled with wonder at the world around her; Dulcie, who loves beautiful things and puzzles over how the \\"clever and inventive\\" human mind can so often turn to mayhem; and tough-as-nails, down-to-earth Joe Grey.  Able to weep real tears (Dulcie dissolves during a wedding, telling Joe \\"All females cry at weddings, it's in the genes\\"), gorge on human food with never a hint of indigestion, enjoy more-than-normal feline stamina, and perhaps even see colors, as well as speak, read, and use the telephone, they have been instrumental in solving no less than seven murder cases.  This eighth installment of their adventures starts (almost) literally with a bang.  The entire village has gathered for the wedding of Police Chief Max Harper and Charlie Getz when a bomb blows out the side wall of the chapel.  Lives would be lost wholesale if not for bold little Kit, Joe and Dulcie's tortie protege, who attacks the triggerman with teeth and claws, then races to warn Clyde Damen of the trap.    This is just the beginning of the mystery and mayhem in this fast-moving tale.  To everyone's amazement, the triggerman is a 10-year-old boy!  Was the bomb of his crafting?  If not, who made it and why?  Then Ryan Flannery, Clyde's new lady friend, finds her philandering ex-husband shot dead in her garage, forcing her uncle, Dallas Garza (introduced in [[ASIN:0061059897 Cat Spitting Mad: A Joe Grey Mystery (Joe Grey Mysteries)]] and now a high-ranking village police officer), to investigate her.  As always, Joe, Dulcie, and Kit immediately take a paw in the case, and it's their insights and discoveries that finally bring the killer--and the bomb-maker--to book.    There are delightful moments in plenty strewn throughout the story: little Kit's first shot at playing informer by telephone; Ryan's adoption of a stray weimaraner and its encounter with Joe, who, hiding under a sofa, sternly commands it to STAY!; Joe and Clyde's uneasy yet effective team-up in surveilling Ryan and Larn Williams, the would-be client who seems to be trying to set her up for extortion.  Garza accepts the mysterious informants as Harper has learned to do, recognizing that they bat a thousand.  And Joe is relieved of the possibility of losing his home as Clyde hires Ryan's contracting company to imaginitively renovate his cottage, installing (among other things) a mini-lookout tower for our tomcat detective.  A superior entry.	2004-10-22
US	51686698	R3U6WWVYBMBXG0	0316517313	68949245	The Fabulous Flight	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A very small boy saves the world	This is perhaps my favorite Lawson fantasy and one that begs to be returned to print.  As a result of an accident, young Peter P. Pepperell III ceases to grow at the age of seven, and actually begins to shrink, while getting brighter all the time.  By the age of 12 he's reached literal pocket-size.  His father, who works in the State Department, is delighted because Peter can now help him with his \\"work\\"--an elaborate model-train layout; his mother is disappointed at first, having always hoped that Peter would grow to be six feet plus and become a Colonel or a General like her brothers, but her husband points out that regardless of his height he might have only become a Major, a rank Mrs. Pepperell particularly loathes. <br /> <br />Tutored at home, Peter befriends the local animals, who welcome him now that he's more their size.  One day a visiting seagull, Sam, alights on the family pond, and Peter discovers the delights of flight astride his neck.  Then Mr. Pepperell comes home with distressing news.  A reclusive scientist in a tiny middle-European nation has invented an explosive even more fearsome than The Bomb, and the State Department desperately wants to get it away from him.  As it turns out, Peter and Sam are ideally suited to the task.  Mr. Pepperell crafts a fiberglass \\"car\\" that can fit on Sam's back, providing a place for Peter to sleep and keep his supplies, and the pair set off on a fabulous flight indeed. <br /> <br />Peter and Sam are characters any kid will love, and they play off each other perfectly.  Sam's slangy speech and blue-collar outlook on Europe's wonders are particularly delightful.  And when they reach their goal, a surprising twist occurs that makes their mission at once easier and more difficult than they had anticipated.  Humor and excitement abound in this wonderfully imaginitive book, and its rarity is a crime.	2004-10-15
US	51686698	R2Q0LMU931SNDF	014031010X	220090506	Rabbit Hill	Books	5	47	48	N	N	Rabbits and squirrels and mice, oh my!	On a hill in the peaceful Connecticut countryside stands an old foursquare house, in which for many years there lived a family of good Folks.  They respected the Small Animals that shared their Hill, their children played hide-and-seek with them on warm evenings and their old lady Spaniel even raised an orphaned fox cub.  Then they moved away, and hard times fell upon the Hill.  The Small Animals, forced to do their \\"marketing\\" in Fat-Man-at-the-Crossroads' garden, have wondered for a long time whether they would ever get such Folks again.  Now, at last, New Folks are coming, and the question in every Animal's mind is, what kind of Folks will they be?    \\"Rabbit Hill\\" is perhaps Lawson's best-known book, though he wrote many that deserve to be returned to print.  Based upon the actual hill on which he lived, it follows the adventures of the Rabbit family, Father (a Southern gentleman from the Kentucky Bluegrass who talks like a dictionary), Mother (a chronic worrier), Little Georgie, and the permanently-visiting Uncle Analdas, and their many animal neighbors--Willie Fieldmouse and his vast family, the forgetful Gray Squirrel, Foxy, Phewie the Skunk, old Porky the Groundhog, the Red Deer and his Doe and Fawn, Mole for whom Willie must often \\"be eyes,\\" and more.  His Animals are drawn lovingly and accurately both in words and pictures (he did his own illustrations) and behave recognizably as we might expect them to do if they were intelligent enough to speak to one another.  And there's a surprising amount of excitement for such a short book: Georgie's flight from a pursuing dog and his remarkable leap across Dead Man's Brook, the question of whether the Folks will be Good Folks or not, and the aftermath of Georgie's mishap with a car on the Black Road.  The close of the tale is heart-warming and beautiful.  This is a kids' book to which I return over and over.	2004-10-14
US	51686698	R3NUFEW7LAUKLF	0140312153	333709949	The Tough Winter (Puffin story books)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	How they fit the winter through	A bleaker book than its predecessor, \\"The Tough Winter\\" finds the Good Folks of \\"Rabbit Hill\\" about to head south to the Bluegrass for the coming winter.  At first the Small Animals of the Hill aren't too worried; they at least have warning and can stockpile.  But curmudgeonly Uncle Analdas Rabbit is sure this will be a \\"tough winter,\\" and he turns out to be far too right.  The Caretakers hired to look after the Big House are slovenly and unpleasant, the weather is cold and the snow deep, and slowly, as the endless weeks grind by, more and more of the animals must abandon the Hill in search of food or to get away from the Caretakers' brutish dog.  At last only Little Georgie, Willie Fieldmouse, and Father Rabbit (who has fallen ill) remain awake and about (though Phewie Skunk and old Porky the Groundhog are happily hibernating in the latter's burrow).  Even Uncle Analdas, as tough an old Rabbit as ever made a stringy stew, has inexplicably vanished (what his family doesn't know is that he has resolved to follow the Folks to the Bluegrass Country and bring them home to save the day).  There are moments of rare beauty, such as the Hill-wide reunion on Christmas-eve night; humor, as when Phewie is recruited to \\"skunk\\" the marauding Dog; and above all a heart-clutchingly authentic picture of what the wild things must endure.  Though perhaps not a book for the most tender-hearted young animal lovers, it does tell a story of undaunted hope and courage, and in the end the Folks return and all is well again.  A classic tale of animal heroism in the face of everyday challenges.	2004-10-14
US	51686698	RZPF4AYR50NFW	0618070230	322182449	The Cuckoo Tree	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Safe in England's arms...or not	After almost three years and a succession of voyages \\"twice round the world,\\" scrappy Cockney Dido Twite finally sets foot in England once again.  Unfortunately she's still 60 miles from her beloved London, and getting across that distance proves to be just as difficult as her previous adventures put together.  Seeking help for her travelling companion, Captain Hughes, RN, after a coach wreck, she runs into first a mysterious band of what eventually turn out to be smugglers (but very upright ones, King's men to the last), then the oddly assorted inhabitants of run-down Tegleaze Manor.  The Captain is carrying a vital dispatch for the First Lord of the Admiralty, and it soon becomes apparent to Dido that the rascally Hanoverians know about it (and may even have arranged the wreck).  There's also witchery--perhaps even voodoo--afoot, and a plot to deprive young Sir Tobit of his inheritance.  But Dido proves equal to it all, with the help of the kindly blind shepherd Mr. Firkin and the delightful chief smuggler Yan Wineberry (who reminds me of a British Han Solo, and who seems to be related to half the South of England, as well as being known and trusted to various high government figures).  A new Stuart king, Richard IV, is introduced, the Preventives (government revenue officers) are revealed to be hand in glove with the Hanoverians, and Dido is reunited with her rascally but musically brilliant father, who for all his cavalier treatment of her seems to care enough to plead for her life when she is captured by the conspirators.  Though often deliciously shuddersome, the book retains the quality of its predecessors, and Dido is certainly up to her usual standard.	2004-10-13
US	51686698	RTS0ZCPEE94QM	0618196234	774530814	Dido and Pa	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dido in her element	At long last Dido Twite is back in London, though perhaps not as she anticipated she'd be.  Unexpectedly reunited (much to her delight) with her old friend Simon, now the Sixth Duke of Battersea, she has been spirited away from him by her rascally father Abednego, who with most of his family killed in the destruction of Battersea Castle has become Music Master to the Hanoverian Ambassador.  The position is not unearned--for all his bad qualities, Mr. Twite is a brilliant composer and a performer of note on the hoboy, whose music often brightened Dido's younger days even though he always favored her much older sister Penny.  But, quite naturally, the Ambassador is also a pivotal player in the ongoing Hanoverian plots against the Stuart throne, so Mr. Twite's politics mesh nicely with his employer's.  Unfortunately for them both, \\"Bonnie Prince Georgie\\" (the King George IV of our universe) has recently died without issue, so what's a Hanoverian plotter to do?  The answer's plain: find a way to become the power behind the throne.  And this the Ambassador has done, with a Dutch double for King Richard IV.  With the help of a network of street urchins and a young artist who is in love with Simon's sister Sophie, Dido contrives once again to foil the plot, though not without a few near escapes, and in the process is reunited with Penny and with what seems to be a younger half-sister, the oddly-named Is.  She is also overlooked by a blind apple seller who has a gift of foreseeing and declares that he \\"can see crossed sparkling lines over her head, and a whole shower of lucky stars...a gold crown in her hand...and a velvet carpet under her foot.\\"  Take good care of her, he warns Mr. Twite, or the luck will turn for you... <br /> <br />The high point of this installment in the Wolves Chronicles is the quirky relationship between Dido and her father, which is portrayed in a rich series of vignettes between them, cunningly spotted along the course of the tale to provide breaksin the otherwise headlong action.  Aiken also shows her usual Dickensian gift in her portrayal of London street life and her creation of villains you love to hate--though Mr. Twite has his sympathetic moments.  As the book closes, he has met the fate the apple-seller warned him of, Sophie and her gallant have come to an understanding, and Simon shyly suggests that perhaps Dido will \\"think about being Duchess of Battersea one day.\\"  A satisfying conclusion to Dido's extended globe-trotting.	2004-10-13
US	51686698	R8H0NH5KWBEM0	0395971853	397577451	Nightbirds on Nantucket (Wolves Chronicles)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Dido Twite, Meet Melville & Verne!	There's a more fantastical than Dickensian feel to this third in the Wolves Chronicles.  As the story opens, we find Dido Twite (thought drowned in the climactic storm in \\"Black Hearts in Battersea\\") aboard the Nantucket whaler that has picked her up, just waking from a \\"long winter's nap\\" indeed--ten full months.  The ship's Captain, Jabez Casket, is, like Captain Ahab, in quest of a whale--but his is as pink as a strawberry ice.  Since the ship is currently in Arctic waters, he can hardly return Dido to her beloved London, but he does have a task for her: lure his young daughter, Dutiful Penitence, out of the stores closet in which she has locked herself ever since her mother's tragic death at sea early in the voyage.  This the resourceful little Cockney succeeds in doing, but as she explores the ship and gets to know the crew, she discovers that there are mysteries aboard.  Who is the stowaway hidden in the hold?  What was the paper Second Officer Slighcarp tore into bits and flung overboard soon after the \\"Sarah Casket\\" had bespoken another whaler? <br /> <br />Returned to Nantucket with Pen (as Dido has christened her), our heroine finds that she will have to remain a while at Captain Casket's farm until arrangements can be made to return her home.  Here it soon becomes apparent that Pen's \\"Aunt Tribulation\\" is in fact the mysterious stowaway.  And lurking in the nearby woods are a band of Hanoverian plotters who have succeeded in fabricating an immense cannon with which they plan to lob a shot all the way across the Atlantic and murder good King Jim in his palace!  Dido, Pen, and the \\"Sarah\\"'s ship's-boy Nate must find a way to expose the conspiracy and prevent the king's assassination.  The pink whale, who proves not to be a figment of Captain Casket's imagination but a very real cetacean, plays a pivotal part in their counterplot. <br /> <br />In this book Dido assumes a central role in the series, one she will hold for several volumes to come.  She's definitely a heroine for our time--gutsy, clever, quick-thinking, quick with a comeback and afraid of nobody, loyal to her friends and tough as a leather thong.  Apart from the incredible elements of the cannon and the whale, which most kid readers shouldn't have much problem accepting, the chief difficulty I have with Aiken's story is that Dido--whose entire family was shown in \\"Battersea\\" to be Hanoverians down to the very youngest cousin--here declares herself a Stuart loyalist and risks life and limb to save her king, something which would have been easier to swallow if Aiken had given some thought to setting it up in the previous book.  It would also be nice to know how Miss Slighcarp, the sinister governess from \\"Wolves,\\" escaped getting her just due after her attempts to bring about the deaths of Sir Willoughby and his lady and take over their estate (no doubt with the view in mind of using it to finance James III's overthrow).  But all in all this is another fast-paced and delightful alternate-Universe romp that maintains the author's previous reputation as a storyteller.	2004-10-05
US	51686698	RKHOP4569M6X	0395971284	293418248	Black Hearts in Battersea	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Plots afoot and foiled in an alernate England	This is a direct sequel to \\"The Wolves of Willoughby Chase,\\" which took place about a year before.  In it, for the first time, we learn that Aiken's world is not our own, but an alternate reality in which the Stuarts kept the British throne; the King is James III, the \\"Hanoverian Wars\\" were fought some 15 years earlier to keep him in office, and the \\"Pretender\\" is \\"Bonnie Prince Georgie over the water,\\" who is supported at home by a conspiracy of Hanoverians.  Simon, the young orphan hero of \\"Wolves,\\" is now 15, and comes to London to study painting and lodge with Dr. Gabriel Field, whom he befriended in the previous book.  When he finds the doctor's lodgings (not without a good deal of misdirection, which proves to be enemy action), not only is Field not there, but everyone insists he never was.  Bewildered, Simon manages to gain entry to the art school in Battersea, where he deeply impresses the master and meets Justin, the thoroughly untalented nephew of the Duke of Battersea, whose castle lies directly across the Thames.  He soon makes the acquaintance of the Batterseas themselves, a delightfully foggy middle-aged couple (the Duke is a keen natural scientist and experimenter in gas balloons, and his lady has such a horror of boredom that she carries an arsenal of amusements wherever she goes, including the opera), and discovers to his delight that his dear friend Sophie, whom he knew in the orphanage before running away at the age of eight, is now the Duchess's lady's-maid.  His friendship with his landlord's slangy small daughter, the neglected Dido Twite, leads him to the discovery of an arsenal of guns and pikes in the Twites' cellar and the realization that the family is Hanoverian--a persuasion shared, as it proves, by just about every servant in Battersea Castle (though not at the Duke's country house in Chippings).  After he, Sophie, and the art students foil two attempts on the Batterseas' lives, he learns of a conspiracy to assassinate King Jamie, but is kidnapped to sea before he can warn anyone.  Dido and Justin, stowing away on the ship, contrive to rescue him, there's a fire and wreck in a savage storm, and after a series of revelations that would do credit (once again) to Dickens, the conspirators come to their deserved end (or at least most of them do) and Simon and Sophie learn the secret of their roots.  Though the British slang used by many of the characters may be puzzling to American readers, it can be worked out from context, and the plot is fast-paced and builds skilfully toward a climax.  Robin Jacques's lovely line illo's add immeasureably to the story.  \\"Battersea\\" defies the maxim that sequels are always inferior to the original.  A great read-aloud that all families should own.	2004-10-04
US	51686698	R3J8T44REFF45W	0152488308	292606825	The Long Way Home	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The triumph of hope and the human spirit	This is the story of a German boy's odyssey--three years and halfway around the world--in search of freedom and a family.  In May of 1953 young Christoph has just turned 13.  His father was killed in action during the war, his mother died while refugeeing from the advance of the enemy, and he is severely psychologically scarred by having survived the firebombing of Dresden as a toddler--the mere mention of fire gives him convulsions.  Since 1945 he has been raised by his mother's old schoolteacher in her isolated cottage on the side of a mountain in Thuringia.  This region is part of the Russian Zone, but Chris has been raised as a Christian and a lover of freedom--which causes him to get peripherally involved in a planned student uprising.  To protect him, his \\"Aunt\\" decides to send him to America, where he can join Larry, the GI who helped save his life when he was five and promised that one day Chris would live with him as his son.  Slipping over the border at peril of his life, he makes his way first to New York City, then to Chicago where he is reunited with Larry and learns of the family difficulties that are delaying his entry into the man's international family (French war bride, Sicilian adopted daughter, Korean adopted son, and infant natural son), and at last to Larry's aunt's pony ranch in a beautiful canyon near Santa Barbara, CA, where Larry and his family plan to move.  The beauty and isolation of the place suit him perfectly, but Larry's wife Denise is still discontented and returns to France with her baby for a visit.  Not until she has been able to compare her native land honestly with her adopted one can she realize how truly happy she is there.  Meanwhile, Chris must conquer his abiding terror of fire when a brush blaze threatens the ranch and its livestock.  Chris is a clear-eyed, hard-working young man whose life has forced him to an early maturity, yet his reactions to America--the good and the bad of it--are both fascinating and telling.  Benary-Isbert also ties the book to her Lechow Family trilogy by introducing Matthias and Andrea Lechow, who are aboard the ship that takes Chris to America.  And her descriptions of the ranch especially border on the lyrical.  This is another splendid YA that adults can love too (I just reread my copy).ary-Isbert also ties the book to her Lechow Family trilogy by introducing Matthias and Andrea Lechow, who are aboard the ship that takes Chris to America.  And her descriptions of the ranch especially border on the lyrical.  This is another splendid YA that adults can love too (I just reread my copy).	2004-10-03
US	51686698	R2F2A3ZR1CTH0T	0440496039	335061449	The Wolves of Willoughby Chase (Wolves Chronicles (Paperback))	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Dickensian adventure	The cast may be small, but there's an aura to this juvenile classic, the first in Aiken's long series, that reminds us of Charley D. at his best.  In what seems to be pre-Victorian England, Bonnie Green, daughter of Sir Willoughby Green, the Squire of Willoughby Chase, is to be left in the care of a governess, Miss Slighcarp, while her parents go on a voyage abroad to restore her mother's health.  Her orphaned cousin Sylvia comes from London to keep her company.  What neither girl knows is that Miss Slighcarp has an agenda, and it doesn't bode well for them.  With the help of Bonnie's loyal maid Pattern, the good footman James, and Bonnie's young friend Simon, a boy who lives in a cave in the Chase park and raises geese for sale, they manage to escape from the cruel \\"charity school\\" to which Miss Slighcarp commits them, gain the aid of a young physician and Sir Willoughby's attorney, and foil their wicked governess, and all comes right in the end.  There are, however, chills and near escapes galore--an attack by wolves on a railroad train, skulkings through secret passages in the walls of the great house, and an epic journey from the industrial city of Blastburn (possibly an analog of Birmingham) to London.  Bonnie, plucky and quick-tempered, and Sylvia, more retiring and ladylike, are distinct individuals and Simon is a splendid young guardian for them--and not without ambition: he has artistic talent and dreams of becoming a painter.  A delightful book to read aloud or enjoy quietly, this title hasn't been OP since it first appeared, and enjoys the seal of approval of the prestigious Accelerated Reader program.  Every family should own a copy.	2004-10-03
US	51686698	R3NUQ4DYU4GE1E	0061015628	186319509	Cat Laughing Last (A Joe Grey Mystery)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Murder is the least of the mysteries	In a departure from Murphy's usual pattern, this seventh Joe Grey mystery doesn't really turn on a murder--there is one, but it doesn't occur till halfway through the book.  Nevertheless, Molena Point is certainly suffering through some weird goings-on.  Why is the famous author who has come to live in the village not writing up to his usual standard?  Who vandalized Susan Brittain's home, and why?  What is the attraction of a battered old wooden chest found in a local yard sale, for which a village antique dealer is willing to commit assault?  And what does would-be stage star Fern Barth have on author Traynor to make him insist that she be cast as the lead of the Little Theater's production of his novel?  Only Joe, his partner Dulcie, and their stage-struck protege Kit could assemble the information and put it together so the humans could act on the hidden truth.  Meanwhile, Joe must put up with the angst of human housemate Clyde Damen, who has lost his casual girlfriend, Charlie Getz, to his lifelong buddy, Police Chief Max Harper, and is pondering the possibility of selling the cottage that has become Joe's beloved base of operations.  Among the most delightful scenes in this book are those involving little Kit, who manages to nab a prominent part in the play.  And Joe, with \\"the freewheeling approach [that only] a cat could employ,\\" ends up with the last laugh indeed.	2004-09-30
US	51686698	R30QORFX8TGLAV	0152039015	40252332	The Ark	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Why doesn't somebody reprint this?!	\\"The Ark\\" has to be one of the three best YA novels ever written about the aftermath of World War II (and Benary-Isbert wrote the other two as well).  The Lechow family were never Nazis, but they got they swept up in events beyond their control.  The father, a doctor, was apparently drafted in 1943 and sent to the Russian Front, where he was captured and sent to Siberia.  The rest of the family has been forced to flee their home in Pomerania--not because the region has been returned to the Poles (Dr. Lechow often treated the poorer citizens of that ethnicity free of charge), but because it has fallen under Russian control and they're of no mind to exchange one totalitarian government for another.  So, after nine months of wandering, they have come, in October of 1946, to the province of Hesse, where the Housing Office sends them to live in the attic of Mrs. Verduz's home at No. 13 Parsley Street.  Oldest son Matthias, 15 1/2, who yearns to be an astronomer, finds himself working construction--though the job does lead to a firm friendship with musician Dieter and his band, the Cellar Rats.  Little Joey, going on seven, has his doubts about the prospect of school, but it brings him a very special friend, the orphan refugee Hans Ulrich, and their \\"treasure\\" hunting in the old ruin leads to surprising rewards.  Andrea, not yet ten, is the most resilient of the band (except perhaps for their hard-working mother): when she gets a scholarship to the lycee, she's happy.  Margret, who will be fourteen in December, is the most deeply affected by all the changes they've endured: she mourns the death of her twin brother Christian and the family Great Dane, Cosi, who were killed by what we assume were plundering Russian soldiers, and the loss of all opportunity to fulfill her dream of becoming a veterinarian.  Yet it's her love for animals that not only opens a crack in Mrs. Verduz's defenses but also brings the family to a new life at Mrs. Almut's farm outside the neighboring village of Hellborn.  The author sketches each family member and her other major characters--Dieter, Hans Ulrich, Mrs. Verduz, Mrs. Almut, Marri the old \\"bee-witch\\"--lightly yet with consummate skill, making each a distinct individual, and portrays vividly and affectingly the hardships, and the underlying revival of hope, in post-War West Germany.  It's a crime that this excellent book has been allowed to fall out of print--and that so many libraries are weeding their copies out.  Get one for yourself while you can.  Like all the finest juveniles, it's equally as enjoyable by adults as by kids.	2004-09-30
US	51686698	R2KPHOW7HWVSNA	0152692363	544562029	Rowan Farm	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Lechows soldier on	\\"Rowan Farm\\" is a direct sequel to \\"The Ark\\" (which you'll need to read first to understand what's going on), and equally as good.  We pick up the Lechow family in January, 1948.  They've settled in at Mrs. Almut's farm in a converted railway carriage, and been reunited with their father and husband, who is at last home from the Siberian POW camp.  Though things are getting better, there are still personal and political tests ahead of them.  Matthias, now almost 17, finds himself involved in a rivalry with Mrs. Almut's son Bernd over a pretty visitor.  11-year-old Andrea campaigns quietly but grimly against her father's resolve to send her to college, when her only dream is to be an actress.  Joey and newly adopted \\"twin\\" Hans Ulrich (now called Ull by the family) get involved in their schoolmaster's plan to build a home for returning veterans.  Dr. Lechow struggles to establish a practice with nothing but his medical bag and the herbal remedies taught to him by old Marri, the neighborhood \\"bee-witch.\\"  Everyone worries about the coming currency reform and what it will do to their savings (if any) and their plans for the future.  And Margret suffers the pangs of first love, rescues an abused Shetland pony, and meets an American Quaker relief worker who offers to take her to the United States.  Like its predecessor, this excellent YA novel, which can be enjoyed just as well by adult readers, begs to be brought back in print.  Let's all e-mail Scholastic and the other major publishers of kiddie books until they agree to do so!	2004-09-30
US	51686698	R3JAFYMW18NLKU	0061059897	373834898	Cat Spitting Mad: A Joe Grey Mystery (Joe Grey Mystery Series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Vindicating an unaware friend	Joe Grey, the talking tomcat, is furious.  Two women, a mother and her grown daughter, have been savagely murdered while out riding, and the younger girl who was with them at the time has disappeared.  What's worse, Molena Point Police Chief Max Harper is the only suspect.  While Joe and his feline partner Dulcie have often tricked and manipulated Harper in their previous investigations, and he's not yet aware of their secret, they like and respect the veteran cop, who is a longtime buddy of Joe's human housemate, Clyde Damen.  Joe can't believe that anyone would think such an upright law-enforcement officer capable of murder and worse.  Naturally, he and Dulcie and their new sidekick--\\"the Kit,\\" another gifted feline--set about to prove Harper's innocence.  Meanwhile, a young cougar has moved into the ruined Pamillon estate up in the hills; and in San Rafael County, the sinister Welshman Lee Wark, who knows Joe and Dulcie's secret, has escaped from San Quentin.  While the resolution of the murders isn't unexpected--the motive was simple revenge--the means the three cats employ to prove it are, as always, clever and suitably feline, and their rescue of young Dillon is full of thrills.	2004-09-24
US	51686698	R24L4RRTLQPHAQ	0671750402	160899734	What Cops Know	Books	4	17	17	N	N	A fascinating look into the mean streets	This compilation of interviews in the words of genuine Chicago cops was put together by the sister of one, which gave her an entree into the \\"closed society\\" of law enforcement.  Most of the officers she spoke with \\"work or have worked\\" in the city's Area Six, which encompasses everything from the notorious Cabrini-Green housing projects to the glittering upscale Gold Coast along the lakeshore.  Yet crime is a constant, as it has been ever since human beings began to develop a society more complex than that of the cave-based clan.  These officers have seen it all, and their cynicism is evident, yet the knowledge they've gained is broad and fascinating.  Have you ever wondered how the Mafia (called in Chicago \\"the Outfit\\") is organized?  Whether there are still any old-fashioned professional burglars?  How a sex criminal or a serial killer thinks?  These cops know, and they tell all.  They are, of course, cynics, and the closing prediction of one Mob \\"expert\\" on where organized crime is probably heading seems to have been proved wrong; but altogether the book is an invaluable resource for mystery writers, social scientists, and police groupies.  (Also read the author's \\"Pure Cop.\\")	2004-09-24
US	51686698	R2C8YE8HUUT6EL	0152024603	766839073	The Wizard's Dilemma  (Young Wizard's Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Learning tough lessons, making hard choices, & growing up	For the first time in the Young Wizards series, Nita Callahan and partner Kit Rodriguez take a break from world-saving in favor of a much more personal mission.  The story begins a bit slowly as Duane sets up the conflict between them and the problems Nita (in particular) is having dealing with the Herd Instinct of most of her schoolmates; but just about a quarter of the way through, Mrs. Callahan collapses in her husband's florist's shop, and the family learns she has an insidious kind of brain tumor.  Quite naturally, Nita resolves to use her wizardly powers to fight the cancer--but this leads not only to a course of exhausting \\"practice\\" tests but to some difficult choices.  Cancer cells, like everything else wizards deal with, are alive in their fashion, and the Wizards' Oath enjoins her to \\"defend life where it is right to do so.\\"  Is it right to destroy the lives of the cancer cells to save her mother's?  Or is the cancer--an invention of the renegade Lone Power--a legitimate target for wizardry, which exists to fight that Power in all its manifestations?    Kit, meanwhile, discovers that his mixbreed dog, Ponch, can literally create Universes--and, with a bit of practice, so can he.  And both partners encounter the enigmatic Transcendent Pig, whose existence and nature not even the Powers That Be can fully explain, and their old adversary the Lone Power, whose nature is more clearly delineated for us than in the previous books; what Kit says of It, especially, makes it more obvious than ever that this series is, or can be read as, a Christian allegory.  It's notable, as well, that since the events of \\"A Wizard Abroad,\\" Nita's parents seem to have fully accepted what their daughters are, and even to have learned quite a bit about how wizardry operates (I'd like to have been a fly on the wall during *those* conversations!)  But this book is, most of all, about how Nita, particularly, has to learn how to make some difficult choices.  Can she apologize to Kit andseek his help in her time of greatest need, or will her hurt pride break up their partnership?  Can she sacrifice her life or her wizardry to save her mother?  (And would her mother want her to?)  Most affecting is the moment when she asks herself, \\"Does there come a time when you *stop* growing?  And when you and the universe *agree* that you're going to stop?...Was there the slightest possibility, here and now, that it *wasn't* right?  How could you tell, without being one of the Powers?  And if people can't tell, then the game just isn't fair!\\"  Though Nita has abilities denied to most young people, she still has to find her way to the same kinds of ethical conclusions that bedevil all of us, and in that, wizardry notwithstanding, she is Everygirl.	2004-09-16
US	51686698	R3O0NOF4OOR8BR	0886775795	648550947	Mind-Speakers' Call (Ghatti's Tale, Book 2)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Seekers and Ghatti enter international diplomacy	It's been six months since Doyce's stepson Vesey and the renegade \\"Gleaners\\" (telepaths) he led were destroyed, though not without cost to Doyce herself: ever since that battle she has closed herself off mentally from everyone, including her would-be lover Jenret (whose presence she wasn't even aware of) and her beloved Bond, the ghatta Khar'pren.  So Khar is delighted when the chief of the Seeker corps asks Doyce to join a diplomatic mission.  The chief (only?) continent of the ghattis' world was long ago divided by its human colonists into two countries: the Seekers' Canderis, which is a republic, and Marchmont, a monarchy.  Recently Marchmont's aged queen died without obvious heirs, and border incidents have been multiplying ever since, endangering the freedom of trade between the two nations and, thereby, Canderis's prosperity.  Accompanied by several other Seekers and their ghatti, plus Nakum, the forester, and his ghatt Saam as guides, she sets out for the border.  When Chak, the Bond of the senior Seeker, unexpectedly dies and his human walks off a cliff with his body, Doyce is promoted to head the party, much to her dismay, and they continue on their way. <br /> <br />In Marchmont, intrigue is afoot, and questions are everywhere.  Who is the heir, and why can't he or she be found?  Who is the mysterious Steward who guides Marchmont while the search continues?  Who is trying to disrupt the Seekers' mission?  Where does the D'Artagnan-esque guardsman Arras Muscadeine stand?  Can the Canderisians stop a palace coup from placing the power-hungry Lord Maurice on the throne?  As they struggle to carry out their mandate, they learn, to their astonishment, that Marchmont is overrun with telepaths--but these are not the meddling Gleaners of Canderis; their society acknowledges them and they function openly and, for the most part, ethically.  Their powers will prove crucial to the resolution of the situation--but so will the Seekers: the late Queen on her deathbed urged her people to \\"wait for the ghatt\\" who would lead them to their next ruler, and so one does. <br /> <br />Although by no means a quick read, this second in the Ghatti's Tale series is equally rich in texture and insight, and author Greeno displays a keen understanding of how governments and economies work and how people react to psychological stress.  (Some reviewers take Doyce to task for her \\"whining,\\" but I understand her feelings: she thinks there should have been something she could have done, as Vesey's stepmother, to prevent him from growing up so twisted, and she believes she should have nurtured rather than destroyed him, which naturally makes for guilt.)  The climactic scenes may be difficult for some readers to bear, as two ghatti and their Seekers die gallant but violent deaths for a country that isn't even theirs; but in the end the right triumphs and Doyce and Jenret appear to be on their way to healing.	2004-09-16
US	51686698	R46EBOATSKGQ4	0886773792	791901960	Sword-Maker (Tiger and Del)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	The series reaches a climax	Roberson's five-volume series seems to be structured much like a Shakespearean play, and in this, which is Act Three, things rise to a peak.  We find Tiger, the one-time slave turned sword-dancer, on his way back to his Southron homeland with his new jivatma (blooding-blade, a magical named sword) and the rank of kaidin (teacher of swordsmanship, in the Northern tradition), recovering from a nearly-fatal wound taken in his dance with Del, the Northern swordswoman who had become first his partner, then his lover--the woman he's sure died from the wound he gave her.  Before too long, however, he and we both learn that Del is alive, and seeking to rejoin him; penitent at having \\"used\\" him in her attempt to get to know her daughter, she still needs him as a sparring mate if she's to recover her condition and \\"end her song\\"--kill the bandit Ajani who destroyed her family.  Del and Tiger's journey leads them first to a village being harried by the \\"hounds\\" Tiger has sworn to destroy--magic-made animals created by the legendary centuries-old sorcerer Chosa Dei, whom Tiger kills, taking his spirit into his sword in the process--and from there to the deserted Border city of Iskandar, where the long-prophesied jhihadi, or messiah, is shortly expected to appear.  There, in a literally whirlwind climax, they learn that the jhihadi is Ajani, and his Oracle is Del's younger brother Jamail, the slave-lover of a Southron desert chief. <br /> <br />Robeson maintains a pace that increases so gradually you almost don't notice what she's doing, yet holds your interest through over 400 pages of story.  She also strews a few red herrings about the plot--I was convinced that Ajani would turn out to have found a way, not only to re-quench his jivatma, but to retain all the power each killing had given it, and Tiger is given news that convinces him Jamail is dead.  Unlike many fantasists, she also gives thought to the inevitable results of a long career as a warrior: Tiger, at 36 or so, isbeginning to feel his age, and actually entertains dreams of what it will be like to settle down on the domain he's promised if he wins the dance that will determine whether the tanzeers (desert princes) and nomad tribes will go to war or not.  Del is equally human, even though she's sure her obsession with revenge has turned her into something else; her very doubts make it plain that she's not as far gone as she thinks she is.  Cultural background about both Del's Northern people and Tiger's Southrons is subtly and liberally provided, and the Borderer family of Adara, Cipriana, and Massou from the previous volume, with the \\"horse-speaker\\" Garrod, makes a return appearance.  The book would be improved by a map of Tiger and Del's world, and I would have liked a little more explanation of how Tiger failed to know that Del had survived their duel, but it's a well-written and skillfully-plotted tale of love, revenge, politics, magic, and the human potential.	2004-08-30
US	51686698	R1GL1AQX2JQQSP	0886774470	613286077	Sword-Singer (Tiger and Del)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Tiger out of his element, Del back in hers	In this second volume of the series (you definitely need to have read the first in order to understand what's going on), Tiger, the Southron sword-dancer, follows his battle-comrade and bedmate, the striking female dancer Del, back to her Northern homeland to stand as her advocate when she faces the council of teachers in an attempt to justify having killed her own in order to take his spirit into her jivatma (blooded blade).  She has one year to do this or be foresworn and declared outlaw, whom any Norherner may kill with impunity.  Of course, the quest isn't easy.  Tiger is still recovering from the aftereffects of his brief enslavement in the tanzeer Aladar's mine, and the weather seems determined to delay them even though Del knows the country well.  Tiger inadvertantly releases some loki (apparently a kind of malevolent earth-spirit) from the magical circle that imprisons them, and a Borderer widow and her two children in need of protection and escort hold the pair up even further.  Then they realize that they're being hunted by what Tiger christens the \\"hounds of hoolies\\"--doglike but clearly sorcerous beasts who seem to have a sinister interest in Del's sword Boreal. <br /> <br />What makes this book hold your attention is twofold: the developing relationship between Tiger and Del, who, having become lovers as well as comrades, are gradually settling into the practicalities of pairhood, trying to blend their differing views of what women can (or should) do and how Del can balance personhood with her quest to avenge her murdered family; and the picture we get of the North and its culture.  As you read, you begin to understand more and more of the influences that shaped Del into the woman she is, just as the revelations of \\"Sword-Dancer,\\" the first book, gives you an understanding of Tiger.  Any fantasist needs to learn how to explain her world while still keeping the pace of her story intact, and Roberson succeeds very well in this.  I wish that she had provided a map of the lands through which Del and Tiger travel, but that may just be me: I always like to be able to locate characters in space as well as time.  In the end Tiger displays both his deep regard and loyalty for Del and the pragmatism of his training as a sword-dancer in a climactic conflict that made me immediately pull out the next book in the series to find out whether he'd really done what it looked like he had.  A solid entry into a fantasy series that has become classic.	2004-08-30
US	51686698	R2U1CMVQ20IF37	002864266X	672674655	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Paganism	Books	4	37	41	N	N	A reassuring intro	If you think you may be a pagan at heart, and want to find out how you can decide for sure, seek no further: this book will provide you with a sound, comprehensive, yet undemanding introduction to the entire concept.  McColman, a long-time practising pagan, clearly explains what pagans believe and why, how their beliefs carry over into their everyday lives, what kinds of rituals are typical of them, how to deal with the non-pagans in your life, and where you can find out more.  Again and again he reiterates the basic tenet that paganism has no single dogma: you're free to practise it in whatever way feels right for you.  Among the most useful of his recommendations: follow the tradition to which you feel most closely drawn.  (In my case, probably Native American.)  After reading this book, I feel more convinced than ever of my basic pagan-ness, and begin to have some idea of how to get my feet more solidly planted on pagan ground.  It's true that McColman seems to concentrate most heavily on the Wiccan and Celtic traditions, but since they're apparently the most popular and visible segments of the pagan community, that's probably inevitable.  Once again, it's important to remember that you don't have to join them, or any group at all.  Paganism, McColman tells us, is for folks who like to think for themselves rather than blindly accepting what the established religions have to say.  If you think of yourself in those terms, it's worth your time to look through this book; you may recognize yourself.	2004-08-27
US	51686698	R3EVIWOL6TCCXN	0684853787	999464161	Bobos In Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There	Books	4	8	9	N	N	An intriguing study of the &quot;new meritocracy&quot;	While it may not be as catchy as &quot;preppie&quot; or &quot;yuppie,&quot; in &quot;bobo&quot; David Brooks has coined a new term for a newly visible and significant segment of society.  A Bobo, he claims, is a hybrid of the bourgeois and the bohemian--a &quot;new meritocracy&quot; or &quot;educated elite.&quot;  Bobos are the new movers and shakers of American business--in banking, law, the media, anything connected to the high-tech industry, even Hollywood.  And like the preppies and the yuppies before them, they're making their mark on the rest of us: Starbucks, for example, was specifically envisioned as a Bobo hangout.<br />Brooks claims that Bobos despise yuppies, but a close study of his book will show that the two groups have several significant things in common.  Both are educated professionals (though many Bobos, especially those in computer-connected fields, are college dropouts or never-wents, Bill Gates being the most obvious example) pulling in high salaries (from a minimum $100,000 annual gross to several million); couples are always dual-income.  Both are comfortable with high tech in all its latest manifestations.  Both take conscientious care of their bodies--no smoking, no drugs, only moderate alcohol consumption, health-club memberships, toning sports like running, skiing, and racquet games.  Both are attracted to highbrow culture (Bobos are mad for museums and listen to NPR).  Both enjoy vacationing in remote, out-of-the-way spots that don't expose them to the thundering herds of &quot;fat tourists&quot; pouring on and off busses.  Both are entranced by &quot;professional-grade&quot; kitchen appliances and want to own a restaurant's worth of lesser tools and equipment.  Both are happy to spend prodigious amounts of money on &quot;things that used to be cheap&quot;--everything from T-shirts to bottled water to coffee to food staples.  Both think it important to expose their young to lots of broadening experiences, including, of course, private schools.  Both are (or claim to be) in love with and consumed by their work.  Some Bobos--those who are veterans of SDS or Woodstock--may even have done a turn as yuppies in the '80's before they discovered their true identity.  But there are also important differences.  The yuppie is a city dweller; Bobos prefer the suburbs (albeit high-end ones)--or small towns like Burlington, Vt., to which many of them eventually move to start up their own little dream businesses, often connected with food.  Yuppies are conventional Organization Men and Women; Bobos value creativity, flat hierarchies, and a boss who gets right down in the trenches with his employees instead of issuing edicts from an ivory corner office.  Yuppies love sleek, smooth, hard-edged decorating schemes; Bobos choose the country/rustic/ethnic look.  Yuppie couples often consciously decide not to procreate, and when they do they confine themselves to one child; Bobos often have two or three (albeit well spaced apart).  Yuppies boast about how exhausted they are by their work; Bobos seek balance.<br />The chief fault of this book is that Brooks can't seem to decide whether he comes to mock the Bobos or to praise them.  In several of his chapters he adopts a wry voice, as when he discusses the seven rules for spending money, the most favored vacation destinations, or the REI store in Seattle where Microsoft staff loves to shop for explorer-type gear.  But as he reaches the &quot;intellectual life&quot; section of the book he waxes sadly sympathetic toward the financial plight of the dual-income couple earning $180,000 a year and trying to send three kids to private school (the oldest is in Stanford).  And in explicating the religious and political views of his subjects, he is completely serious; many readers, Bobos or not, will recognize themselves in his descriptions.  He closes with a ringing call for the Bobos to assume a position of leadership and guide America &quot;into its next golden age.&quot;  Allin all, it's an interesting book about a group many of us may not have really noticed up till now, but one which has a great influence on our lives.	2004-06-15
US	51686698	R2T6DSIURNZJXW	1572301937	716673818	I Love a Cop: What Police Families Need to Know	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An indispensable tool for understanding the cop mind	Even if you're not married to, or otherwise involved with, a police officer, this book can help you to understand a great deal of the police culture, mindset, and worldview.  Its descriptions of the character of the typical police officer and of how that officer evolves over the usual 20-year career are particularly valuable.  And it offers insights into the home life of cops and how they cope.  Both failed and successful relationships are covered, and in the end the tone is upbeat and optimistic.    Also read [[ASIN:0440313422 Cop World]]; [[ASIN:0805080759 Homicide: A Year on the Killing Streets]]; [[ASIN:0671685511 Cops]]; and [[ASIN:B000LBWPBK Pure Cop]], [[ASIN:0671750402 What Cops Know]], and [[ASIN:0671000861 Breaking and Entering]].	2004-06-01
US	51686698	R2F8MTQSQJW1EK	0886775507	575109450	The Ghattis Tale, Book 1: Finders-Seekers	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Murder, mystery, & "meow" on a lost colony	Having been a cat-lover all my life, I'm always on the lookout for books that feature felines.  I'm not sure why I passed up this series (begun in 1993) till just last year, but I'm glad that I finally broke down and bought it.  Greeno images a lost Terran colony (probably settled by back-to-the-land pagans, since it has regressed to a pre-technological level in only 200 years and its people worship a goddess they call \\"the Lady\\"), where a major lifeform is the ghatti (a single male is a ghatt, a female a ghatta, and an immature of either sex a ghatten)--creatures which, whether through parallel evolution, genetic manipulation, or crossbreeding with Terran cats, look and behave very much like outsized versions of the latter, but are apparently sentient and boast a limited telepathic ability: they can \\"mindspeak\\" to each other and to selected humans, and can scan people's thoughts for lies and deception.  They're also as loyal and loving as dogs: a ghatti bonds to a single human (it has long been thought that it *can't* bond to a second one, even if it loses the first, but in the course of the book we learn that this isn't true) in kitten- (or rather ghatten-) hood, and thereafter, following a period of training, the two become Seekers Veritas, circuit judges of a kind, one of two professions (the other is the \\"eumedicos,\\" or doctors) that hold the society of Methuen together.  The tabby ghatta Khar'pern (Khar for short) is Bondmate to Doyce, a woman who has already lived almost as many lives as a Terran cat: daughter to a weaver and shadowed sister of a cripple, eumedico-in-training, wife to Varon, stepmother to his son Vesey and mother to his daughter Briony, widow by fire, and unexpectedly, at the age of 27, Seeker.  In the decade since the two have ridden their circuit faithfully and Doyce has slowly begun to heal from her loss, taking the Seeker Oriel as an intermittent lover (unaware that another of the male Seekers, Jenret, five years her junior, harbors feelings for her too), only suffering vivid nightmares which Khar shares through their link and tries to ease.  Suddenly Oriel and his ghatt are found murdered and mutilated, and Doyce soon discovers that the crimes are part of a pattern: someone is apparently conducting clandestine medical studies of Seekers, their Bonds, and ordinary humans and Terran cats, trying to learn what makes the Bond relationship possible.  Accompanied by Jenret and his black ghatt-friend Rawn, the mind-crippled ghatt Saam whose human Bond was one of the victims, and later by her former eumedico mentor Mahafny, the ex-priest Harrap, and the ghatt Parm who bonded with him after his first Seeker began to \\"change\\" mentally in frightening ways, Doyce sets out to follow Oriel's old circuit and try to learn what is going on.  As the book proceeds, we learn that Doyce is in fact the key to the entire mystery.  This is the first volume of (so far) four thick paperbacks, and you'll want to read them all, if only because Greeno leaves us, at the end, with a good old-fashioned cliffhanger.<br />Though readers may be distracted by mention of typical Terran wild animals (elk, mountain sheep, wolves, bears, foxes, owls, squirrels) in the woods of Methuen, the society of the colonists is well drawn, and of course the central pivot, the Seeker/ghatti relationship, is especially well done.  Greeno obviously knows cats and has studied them closely: her ghatti behave just as we might expect a thinking, telepathic cat to behave.  Among the most charming scenes is that on p. 244-7, where Parm tries to comfort the confused Harrap, who never expected to Bond with a ghatti: \\"I would wear a Lady's Medal for you, if you wanted me to,\\" he says; \\"...I would do anything you wanted of me!\\"<br />This series is a perfect choice for the lover of both cats and sf/fantasy (I'll probably be buying a set for my girlfriend, who is both).	2004-01-04
US	51686698	R19OMI3ZBIROPT	1400031362	405618230	Morality for Beautiful Girls (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Precious Ramotswe's life grows more complicated	Mma Precious Ramotswe, the only lady private investigator in the nation of Botswana, finds that being engaged isn't all it's cracked up to be in this third installment in Smith's series (you definitely need to have read the first two in order to understand the references).  Her fiance, Mr. J. L. B. Matekoni, the heretofore devoted and successful owner of Tlokweng Road Speedy Motors and foster father to two Bushman orphans, proves to be suffering from depression and must be subtly tricked into seeking medical help.  Meanwhile, her assistant, Mma Makutsi, discovers unsuspected talents when they move the Agency offices to share the garage premises and she finds herself riding herd on Mr. Matekoni's notoriously lazy and inept apprentices.  Mystery is provided by the possible ongoing poisoning of the brother of an important Government official, who suspects his sister-in-law, and the discovery in the bush of a naked boy who &quot;smells of lions&quot; (anyone who has read Kipling's Mowgli stories will immediately guess at his past, though nothing canonical is established about it).  The title arises from Mma Makutsi's efforts to learn which (if any) of four finalists in the Miss Glamorous Botswana contest are morally suited to the title.  Smith, as always, conveys much of the spirit, flavor, and customs of the African nation he knows so well, and leaves us wanting to know how the cases of Mr. Maketoni's depression and the mysterious bush boy will turn out.  Highly recommended for readers of the series.	2004-01-02
US	51686698	R1JWBZDDD58SHN	0345424603	867079822	The Masterharper of Pern (Dragonriders of Pern)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A beloved character gets his own book	Perhaps the most popular of the major &quot;regulars&quot; in the Pern series is Robinton, the rich-voiced Masterharper who can hear and be heard by every dragon on the planet.  Many readers grieved with the Pernese when he was killed off.  Now, at last, we have a book that explains how this pivotal character came to be who he was.  From his birth (which nearly kills his mother), through his childhood as a prodigy (loved by his vocalist-mother but cold-shouldered by his composer-father), his first meeting with Falloner (later the Dragonrider F'lon, father of F'lar and F'nor) and their developing friendship, his two great loves and the tragedies to which they led, and his clandestine (and hitherto untold) work among the Holders, up through the opening scenes (told from his viewpoint) of &quot;Dragonflight,&quot; we watch as his character and gifts develop and he becomes, inevitably, the man who will help lead Pern into its as-yet-unsuspected future.  McCaffrey also, as in every Pern book, sprinkles a few new tidbits about her planet through the story.  You need to have read at least the first two books in the series to understand what's going on, and the story is a bit slow to start, although once Robinton is writing music it grows more interesting.  Definitely an indispensable read for McCaffrey's legion of fans.	2003-12-11
US	51686698	R1SXORXRIZ31IQ	0394510321	70651256	A Field Guide to American Houses	Books	4	7	7	N	N	An indispensable tool	I stand in awe of the amount of work that must have gone into this book.  Photographs of existing examples of every style of architecture (from #1, a Winnebago bark wigwam, to a sampling of NeoVictorians) in every region of the United States dominate its pages (their size is the only reason I don't rate it at five stars: you'll definitely want a magnifier).  A lengthy (61pp) preface explains the roots of American house styles and all their basic elements, from plans and shapes to methods of construction to decorative details.  Each chapter concentrates on a basic style, from &quot;Pre-Railroad&quot; (log cabins and plains soddies, including a splendid series of sketches showing the former's possible permutations) through &quot;NeoEclectic&quot; and &quot;Contemporary Folk;&quot; all include a map showing the locations in which that type was common and the period of its outward spread, and most have ink sketches of details such as doors, windows, roofs, and general shape.  Whether you're a dedicated &quot;house-walker&quot; or just curious about the kinds of houses people have lived in over our nation's history, this comfortably sized and clearly illustrated volume should be on your shelf.  I refer to it regularly in writing about past house styles.	2003-10-10
US	51686698	R5JASHMAU4GDX	0152162380	869663317	A Wizard Abroad: The Fourth Book in the Young Wizards Series	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What's a young wizard to do?	Nita Callahan isn't quite 15, and she's a wizard.  She and her friend and partner, Kit Rodriguez, have already saved the world at least three times (see the previous books in this excellent series, and my review of \\"A Box of Wizadry\\").  Unfortunately, her parents are mundane, and they don't understand.  Whether or not they really think she and Kit are up to hanky-panky, as Nita is sure they do, they're determined to get her away from \\"all that.\\"  So they send her to County Wicklow to stay with her aunt, Annie Callahan, for six weeks.  What they don't realize is that Ireland is top-heavy with old magic--there's hardly a square foot of it that isn't overlaid with the residue of enchantments and workings reaching back thousands of years--or that Annie is herself a wizard.  Nita soon discovers that the Powers That Be *want* her to be there--along with Kit and kid sister Dairine, whose powers are even more impressive than Nita's but who at least doesn't have a male partner--to once again beat off the incursions of the renegade Lone Power.  And she even meets an Irish boy with whom she shares a first kiss.  Duane's great gift is to blend the \\"weirdness\\" of magic so perfectly with everyday life that it seems utterly acceptable, even though her magic tends to be highly technical--the reverse of Arthur C. Clarke's famous dictum, \\"Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.\\"  Nita fights off a pack of dire wolves, calls the Faery-Folk to cope with an invasion of drows, and eventually imports Dairine to help recreate the Spear of Victory, one of the great magical treasures of Ireland, by literally reaching back in time for iron plasma from the heart of a star!  Duane herself, if memory serves, lives in Ireland, and obviously enjoyed putting her home into her work.  An excellent addition to a superior YA series which can be equally well appreciated by adults.	2003-10-09
US	51686698	RGS7RJWJ3XKJM	0152025898	999549448	A Stranger at Green Knowe	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Green Knowe without magic	This book is a sport: it's the only volume in the Green Knowe series in which magic makes no appearance--unless you count as magic a peculiar almost-friendship between Hanno, a gorilla escaped from the London Zoo, and the 11-year-old Chinese refugee boy, Ping, who appeared in the previous volume and is inexplicably drawn to the ape upon first viewing him in his cage.  Ping's friend Ida undertakes to write Mrs. Oldknow, who is alone in the old Norman manor while Tolly spends the summer with his father and stepmother in Scotland, and ask if she would consider inviting Ping back to stay with her--which she does.  He's still en route when he learns of Hanno's escape from the zoo.  At first everyone assumes the gorilla is somewhere in Regents Park, but by a peculiar twist of fate he ends up in the \\"thicket\\" at one end of the manor garden just as Ping is exploring it.<br />Green Knowe books are best when Tolly and Mrs. Oldknow are both present, and at least this volume includes one of them, but the lack of anything supernatural seems to put the book out of kilter with the rest of the series, even though it's the most often recommended after the opening volume.  Written at a time when gorillas were first being seriously studied and understood, it suggests that the author was herself so fascinated by them that she decided, willy-nilly, to write a book about them, and couldn't think of any place to put one except at Green Knowe.  It's also, ultimately, a rather sad book, with an inevitably tragic climax, even though Ping does find a home with Mrs. Oldknow in the end.  It *is* necessary to have read it in order to understand part of what happens in the following volume, but it should definitely not be read as an introduction to the series, since it has very little in common with them but its setting.	2003-09-25
US	51686698	RP7RQWWKVQC54	0152024816	891310317	An Enemy at Green Knowe	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Magical thrills and chills	After \\"The Children of Green Knowe,\\" this is my favorite of the five central books of the sequence.  It includes all the elements that make the series immortal: the mysterious old Norman manor house with its lush garden and bordering river, the wise and wonderful Mrs. Oldknow who often seems to have more than one foot in any time but her own, her young great-grandson Tolly (now probably about 12) to provide the spark, tales of the mysterious past of the house, and magic--some of it not very nice.  Kids who enjoy identifying with the juvenile protagonists of R. L. Stine's horror tales may be well served by being introduced to Tolly and his friend Ping, the Chinese refugee boy, and following along as they slowly become aware of the character and lack of scruples of \\"Dr. Melanie Powers,\\" the sinister lodger at The Firs, who wants to acquire a gramarie (book of spells) said to have belonged to a tutor employed at the house in the 17th century.  While Mrs. Oldknow quickly comes to agree that Dr. Powers is both powerful and evil, it's left up to the boys to beat off her nastier efforts and, ultimately, find a means of defeating her utterly.  (Ping has an excellent heroic role when he summons the shade of the slain gorilla Hanno.)  Mrs. Oldknow's lodger, the scholarly Mr. Pope, also has his moment of glory when, reciting an ancient Hebrew spell for his tape recorder, he unknowingly halts a spell that threatens to literally ruin the manor.  Even the time-travelling blind girl Susan makes an appearance, though I wonder that Tolly's first ghost-friends, Toby and his sibs, are conspicuously absent, this being as much their house as Tolly's--perhaps more: they've been there longer!  The one question that itches at me is what has become of Tolly's stepmother: her husband, his father, is mentioned and even arrives at the end of the book, but she isn't and doesn't.<br />Children like to be deliciously frightened, and this book is a superior title to frighten them with--though notone you'll want them reading alone in their rooms late at night!  A superior entry into the series.	2003-09-25
US	51686698	R1OQDCH5H8KKZJ	015202607X	319104291	The River at Green Knowe	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Strange adventures in the English countryside	In this third of the Green Knowe series, Tolly Oldknow and his great-grandmother have presumably gone off to Cornwall for the summer (as they talked of doing after Tolly found the lost Oldknow jewels in the previous volume), and the mysterious old house has been rented out to Dr. Maud Biggin, a lady archaeologist, and her friend, Miss Sybilla Bun, who loves nothing better than to cook for people.  Seeing the large amount of space the property offers, Dr. Maud invites her great-niece Ida to visit and writes a charitable society to send two displaced children to keep her company; the chosen pair are Oskar, a Hungarian whose father was shot by the Russians, and Ping, a Chinese refugee.  The children immediately make up their minds to explore the river that flows past the house, and in doing so they meet with some very strange adventures.  There's an almost dreamlike quality to many of the things that befall them--the discovery of a vine-draped Georgian ruin and of a former London busman who has become a hermit, a nighttime romp with a herd of winged horses, Oskar's temporary shrinkage to field-mouse size, an encounter with a live adolescent giant and his mother, a brief journey to the distant past to view a pagan ritual--and it's not at all clear how much of it really happens and how much they only imagine.  None of the Oldknow ghosts makes an appearance, which is unfortunate, but perhaps inevitable, since the children aren't from \\"their family.\\"  This is a particularly good book for dreamy, imaginitive children who have a knack for suspending disbelief, though not my own favorite in the series.	2003-09-23
US	51686698	RKHHAQC4SEHT0	0152026010	226243791	Treasure of Green Knowe	Books	5	8	8	N	N	More ghosts and a lost treasure	It's the spring immediately following the events of \\"The Children of Green Knowe,\\" and young Tolly Oldknow returns to the ancient manor of his family to stay with his great-grandmother over the Easter break.  He barely steps through the door when he senses that something is wrong--and how horribly wrong it is: his ghost-friends, Toby, Alexander, and Linnet, have accompanied their portrait on loan-out to an exhibition, and may never return, for Mrs. Oldknow is desperate for money to make repairs to the house and has been offered a high price for the picture.  Tolly resolves to search for the long-lost jewels of Maria Oldknow, the stylish wife of his 18th-century ancestor, which disappeared when the grand \\"new annex\\" of the manor burned down in a suspicious fire in 1798.  Yet he soon finds that ghosts still lurk in Green Knowe--or perhaps not ghosts at all, since his blind ancestress Susan and her young black companion Jacob lived far beyond the ages at which they manifest to him.  As is often the case at this house, time becomes a half-meaningless concept, past and present blend and communicate, and Mrs. Oldknow's stories of Susan and Jacob, Susan's vain and flighty mother and spoiled older brother Sefton, her young tutor Jonathan Morley (who, years later, she married), and the sinister manservant Caxton seem to draw these Georgians even closer to Now.  Tolly himself finds that his modern-day actions resonate into the past and that--in one memorable sequence--he can even travel back to it and help Susan and Jacob conceal a young poacher from Caxton in a secret tunnel he has discovered.  And in the end, even before those stories lead him to the hiding place of the jewels, the portrait is returned, and in a beautiful closing scene we get a hint of the possibility that Susan and Jacob may come to know Toby and his sibs as Tolly does.  A worthy sequel to the first book and nearly as good.	2003-09-22
US	51686698	RUM9EYZLWCTG4	0152024689	15256450	The Children of Green Knowe	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Friendly ghosts and a lurking curse	For mature and thoughtful children--and for adults, like all the best kids' lit--this British book, the first in a series, is a true gem.  Eight-year-old Toseland Oldknow (cruelly called \\"Towser\\" or \\"Toto\\" by his schoolmates and new stepmother) is sent to the old manor house of Green Noah (the discrepancy in names is explained partway through) to stay with his great-grandmother, Linnet Oldknow (who apparently married her cousin, in case readers wonder), during the Christmas holidays.  The first thing he learns is that he bears an ancient family name, which his Granny shortens to Tolly, by which we will know him henceforward.  It soon becomes apparent to him that the ancient stone pile is full of secrets: he hears movement and childish laughter, sees things out of the corner of his eye, and finds a wooden Japanese mouse that's inclined to move and squeak under his pillow.  Everything traces back to a 17th-century portrait of three Oldknow children--Toby (another Toseland), 14; Alexander, about 11; and Linnet, 6--with their mother and grandmother, of whom the latter is a dead ringer for his Granny.  As Mrs. Oldknow tells stories of this trio, their pets, their adventures, and their seagoing father and older brother, they seem to come more and more to life, until Tolly actually finds himself encountering them--or rather their ghosts, since they died in the Great Plague.  He also finds out that Mrs. Oldknow played with them too when she was his age.  Then he accidentally learns of a curse placed on the Oldknows by a vengeful gypsy in the 19th century--and very nearly falls victim to it himself, only to be saved by his ghostly friends.<br />Boston's evocation of the house, the countryside, the misty borderline between two realities, and the final horrific manifestation of the curse (if your kids were frightened by Aslan's fate in \\"The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe,\\" you'll need to exercise caution with regard to this particular sequence), are masterful, and her gradual revelation of the many mysteries of the manor and the family are splendidly paced.  The three 17th-century children are as alive as 1950's Tolly, not only to Tolly but to the reader.  I reread this series out of the library several times and finally bought them when I was in my 20's, and I still go back to reread them almost 30 years later.  No one should fail to experience them.	2003-09-22
US	51686698	R2HJNOZNNUB1GT	0735201218	89735329	Literature Lover's Book Of Lists : Serious Trivia for the Bibliophile	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A wonderful resource	Like Steven Gilbar's [[ASIN:0312088035 The Book Book]] (see my review), this is a great item to just pick up and open; you're sure to find something interesting in it no matter what page you choose.  Though not marketed as such, it will prove most interesting to parents of children from grade-school through high-school age, and may indeed be used as a compendium of reading lists by homeschoolers.  (For example, if you turn to page 245, \\"Animals: Books & Stories\\" in \\"Themes: Under One Umbrella,\\" you'll see listed, under Crane/Stork/Goose/Duck/Swan/Penguin, titles ranging from [[ASIN:0316058432 Mr. Popper's Penguins]] and [[ASIN:B0007D9VJG Make Way for Ducklings]] to [[ASIN:0375849785 The Snow Goose]] and [[ASIN:B000K03C1E Cranes in My Corral, Hyde]].)  Besides allusions, quotations, and definitions, the bulk of the book, as with Gilbar, is given over to lists of books--everything from \\"Best-Selling Books\\" to \\"1990s Literature From Around the World;\\" there's no reason an intelligent teen can't take a taste of everything Strouf lists.  Serious-minded ones may also want to check out List #9 (\\"Influential Writers from Around the World\\"), #14 (\\"Literary Criticism\\"), and #16 (\\"U.S./British/Irish Critics\\") for ideas on where to go next.  But above all, buy it for Sections 2, 3, 5, 6, and 7 (Books...for All Ages, Genres...for Every Taste, Drama, Themes, and Literary Periods) and the titles and authors in Section 4 (Poetry).  It's true that the index includes only authors' names, no titles, which to my mind is a fault (and somehow neglected to includ the comic-strip creators from pp. 86-8, even though many of them have had their works collected in bound form).  It's also true that there are a few rather glaring typos (mostly having to do with book titles) that would have been caught by an editor who knew his books, but by searching in your library or online under both author and title you should still be able to find all the items listed.  Then get yourself a used copy of Gilbar (get his [[ASIN:0899191320 Good Books]] too), Nancy Pearl's [[ASIN:B001T0I7OG Book Lust: Recommended Reading for Every Mood, Moment, and Reason]] and [[ASIN:B0028N73C0 More Book Lust: 1,000 New Reading Recommendations for Every Mood, Moment, and Reason]], and [[ASIN:013712175X The Prentice Hall Good Reading Guide]], and you'll have a treasure trove worthy of the fabled Indies to search and sample.	2003-09-11
US	51686698	R3455NRMEX9BN8	0671578065	757956536	Lazerwarz	Books	5	7	7	N	N	There be gods here!	Mark Shepherd offers what appears to be the conclusion of his urban-fantasy trilogy (read [[ASIN:0671876309 Elvendude]] and [[ASIN:0671877755 Spiritride]] first) and ties up his loose ends with a bang--or several.  Set in Mercedes Lackey's SERRAted Edge Universe, the book has, as usual, several subplots skilfully woven together and even a wild left turn or two.  In Tulsa, OK, FBI agent Samantha McDaris--who is actually an elf in disguise, and the sister of Avalon's King Aedhan--is investigating the disappearances of over 200 young players from a nationwide chain of indoor wargaming arenas called Lazerwarz, of which a new facility is slated to open momentarily.  When she arrives, she discovers that part of Stonehenge--yes, *that* Stonehenge--has inexplicably (to most people--Sammi immediately realizes that a magical Gate has been used, but whose and why?) has appeared in the facility's parking lot.  Meanwhile, a teenage fast-food worker named Dobie discovers in the arena a warrior personality he'd never suspected--and gets picked up and seduced by what turns out to be The Morrigan, an ancient Irish goddess.  But she's not the only Celtic survivor from The Upperworld still hanging on, as Lugh, the god of light, contacts Sammi and her brother with the news that his demimortal son, Cuchulain, has been reincarnated in modern guise and has no idea of his past.  A British druid (probably likewise a reincarnation) and our old friend Mort, the demonic hanger-on from the previous books promoted to major villainy and with his true nature revealed, add further complications.  Shepherd somehow manages to keep everything straight and maintain momentum right through an updated techie single combat intended to settle, once and for all, the quarrel between Mort and the Seileighe (Light Elf) court.  He also originates a splendid laserized version of paintball and describes it so well that you find yourself wondering when it's going to open near you.  This is urban fantasy at its best.	2003-09-05
US	51686698	R20JV1BYEYLHOL	0312109601	266000235	Cutter (Gail McCarthy Mysteries)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	An intriguing debut	It's a pity that Crum's earlier books seem to be out of print; as with any mystery series, you're always best advised to begin at the beginning, which is this one, followed by [[ASIN:0312960409 Hoofprints]].  Amateur sleuths who are veterinarians are not unknown, and many literary sleuths interact with smaller animals like cats and dogs, but Crum has made horses the focus of her mystery, and in the process imparts a lot of information about them (though I question her assertion, or rather implication, that *all* horses eat wood; some do (they're called \\"cribbers\\"), but it's a habit of which they can be broken (if that weren't true, there would be few 19th-Century barns and stables still standing!)).  She has clearly done her homework regarding horse-based eventing (cutting, endurance riding), and knows something of equines at work (her descriptions of cutting horses working cows verge on poetry).  She also has a gift for humor--she had me giggling helplessly over her description of Lonny Peterson's kitten Gandalf.  She's a bit slow getting started--it isn't till we're more than a third of the way through the book that the body is discovered and the detection actually gets under way--but once she does, the mystery unrolls with suitable red herrings, and the ultimate perpetrator isn't one I would have suspected.  I'll be looking for further novels in this series.	2003-09-01
US	51686698	R2H4TMN1NK1O0S	0312860374	348366267	Starfarers	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Ultimately a disappointment	I first discovered Poul Anderson in the early 1970's and over the past 30 years have managed to collect practically every book he's ever published--a total of more than 80 novels and short-story collections, including his very rare historical \\"The Golden Slave.\\"  Up to this point I chose not to keep only one of those I read (\\"The Devil's Game\\"), but I'm afraid this title will make Number Two.  SF has always been fundamentally an optimistic genre--even dystopic stories usually feature a maverick or two beating their wings against the bars of society's cage--and while in the end \\"Starfarers\\" also posits a rebirth of the human spirit, it left me feeling somehow unsatisfied.  Perhaps it's that Anderson's earlier work (like the great Ensign Flandry and Nicholas van Rijn/Davey Falkayn series or the retellings of Norse sagas), despite a lurking shadow of decadence (the \\"Long Night\\" often referred to by Flandry, the Nordic gloom of the sagas), focuses on characters who are truly heroic, larger than life (though far from perfect), while the \\"Envoy\\"'s crew seem more to be an accidental association of rather ordinary folk.  Perhaps it's the picture he paints (rather improbable, to my mind) of a humanity that (in some unexplained way) manages to confine itself to Earth (and a few widely scattered colonies) without overwhelming the planet with its numbers and waste.  Or perhaps it's the way he portrays what seems to me a change in the basic human character over the 10,000 years of \\"Envoy\\"'s absence; after all, anyone who has read widely in history understands that people today aren't too basically dissimilar to those of ancient Egypt and Sumeria--or, for that matter, the Australian aboriginies and other modern counterparts of Stone Age humanity.  Even the very late Anson Guthrie series had more of a basically upbeat tone than this one does.  It's true that his Tahirian aliens are wonderfully original and excellently drawn, and the starfaring Kith--clans of traders--are a peopleworth knowing.  And even in his age, the author lost none of his lyrical style.  But if you're looking to get familiar with the best of Anderson, don't start with this novel.  I'd go so far as to say that only utter completists should trouble to keep it in their collections.	2003-08-31
US	51686698	R1RTBIPIA5HFTI	0140340343	252725444	101 Dalmatians (Puffin story books)	Books	5	53	53	N	N	The first and still the best	The live-action Disney version of this book was the pits.  The animated version wasn't bad at all (I own it).  But the book is better than either of them.  And, like all the best kids' books, this one, though written for 8-14's, can still be enjoyed when you're way past childhood.<br />Disney necessarily simplified the story and characters for his movie versions, cutting out a lot of the subtle characterization and background that makes the book seem so completely plausible.  Here, instead of \\"Roger and Anita,\\" we have \\"the Dearlys,\\" a businessman and his bride, who are \\"owned\\" by Pongo and--not Perdita, but \\"Missis\\"--and have not one \\"Nanny\\" but two, \\"Nanny Cook\\" (a real cook) and \\"Nanny Butler\\" (a real butler).  We learn of Cruella deVil's sinister family history, her furrier husband (never mentioned in the films), and her obsession with furs.  We learn that her employees, the Baddun Brothers, dream of appearing on \\"What's My Crime?\\"  Many of the Pongos' pups--Lucky, Patch, Cadpig, Roly--are fleshed out as they never were on the screen.  The sheepdog Colonel is less of a buffoon and more a shrewd strategist.  The drama of the puppies' births and early lives is much better portrayed, as is the journey of Pongo and Missis to Suffolk to rescue their stolen family, with introductions to the dogs that help them on their way--the hospitable Golden Retriever, the aged Spaniel and his \\"pet,\\" 90-year-old Sir Charles, the flighty Irish Setter whose efforts come to naught through a fire, and the tough Staffordshire who occupies the moving van the Dalmatians board to shorten their homeward trip.  Cruella's white Persian cat is here too--a clever animal \\"biding her time\\" as she waits for the opportunity to settle the score for her drowned litters--and so is the sheepdog's \\"pet,\\" two-year-old Tommy Tompkins, who lends his toy hay-cart to the army of London-bound dogs.  Yet despite a certain anthropomorphization, all the animals are recognizably animals; they behave as such anddon't do anything you couldn't visualize such creatures doing.  The humor is much more subtle than in the films, no doubt reflecting Smith's British personality.  There are episodes like the brief rest in a country church and the Dalmatians' revenge against Cruella that would have made great theater.  I still enjoy the animated version, but I keep coming back to the book.	2003-08-26
US	51686698	RFYCKJ8VGNH82	0440407605	735575917	Lassie Come Home	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A classic returned to print	If, like me, you read this book in childhood and have lamented the recent unavailability of any but abridged editions, rejoice--this is the Dell Yearling paperback many of you may remember, complete and uncut.  Adults and children alike will love it (Knight originally published it in a short-story version in \\"The Saturday Evening Post,\\" which, though a family journal, was aimed at a grown-up audience); even cat people (like me) can take great delight in it.<br />Everyone knows the story: the beautiful collie Lassie, beloved by the Yorkshire schoolboy Joe Carraclough, is sold by Joe's father to the local Duke because the coal mine in which he has labored has shut down and he needs the money to feed his family.  But Lassie is linked to Joe by a love-bond that recognizes no barriers.  Three times she escapes and returns to him.  Then, taken to the Duke's property far in the northern regions of Scotland, she flees again, and sets out on an epic trek homeward.  Some of the people she meets hinder or seek to harm her; others give her care and help so she can get on the way again; one, the unforgettable peddler Rowlie Palmer, she travels with as almost a partner, and repays by saving his life.  And in the end her faithfulness brings good fortune upon the Carraclough home, and all is well.<br />Lyrically written and rich with the flavor of the English and scottish countryside, this book should be read aloud to every child in the land.  (Then rent the video with young Roddy McDowell--the adaptation is excellent.)	2003-08-22
US	51686698	R38AXRJHXR7V7V	0141301228	155756941	The Town Cats and Other Tales	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Clever cats, foolish humans	\\"Never take a cat for granted!,\\" warns the back-cover copy of this collection, and Alexander, like myself, has obviously enjoyed a long association with felines and knows whereof he speaks.  I originally read this book out of the library years ago and was delighted to find it back in print.  Any child (or adult) for whom Puss-in-Boots was a major hero will want to have it in his collection.  Alexander's cat-heroes, from Pescaro, who dupes an unwelcome royal bureaucrat in the title story, through Witling in \\"The Apprentice Cat,\\" may all be able to talk, but otherwise they clearly *think* like cats--sometimes to the detriment of the people around them.  (As Mark Twain famously declared, \\"If man could be crossed with the cat, it would be an improvement for the man, and a comedown for the cat.\\")  There's Margot, who helps a princess marry the man she wants; Baraka, who plays chess and teaches the sultan a valuable lesson; Quickset, who relieves his village of the tyranny of a greedy storekeeper; Vaska, who shows his human the folly of trying to imitate one's betters; Hillesum, who saves the career of the painter he lives with; and the Master of Revels, who helps the fiddler Nicholas earn the recognition that is his proper due.  Laszlo Kubinyi's illustrations are as delightful as the stories (don't miss the vignette on the title page).  This book will remain on my shelf till the floor falls through.	2003-08-22
US	51686698	R2HKOX7FR5VU5	0446673188	286963544	To Visit the Queen (Cat Novel)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A cat may look at a queen...but can it save her?	All Duane's fantasy--the \\"Tale of the Five,\\" the \\"Young Wizards\\" series which takes place in the same Universe as this book and its prequel--turns on the unending battle between the Powers That Be (the forces of life, or what a Star Wars fan might call \\"the Light Side\\") and the Lone Power (the renegade god whom Christians term \\"the Devil\\"), each aided by its own mortal adherents and sometimes willing, sometimes unaware pawns.  In this story, feline wizard and Worldgate technician Rhiow and the survivors of her team--opera-loving tom Urruah and visionary kitten Arhu--must travel to London to try to repair a malfunctioning gate (cats, unlike humans, can both see and manipulate the \\"strings\\" that make the gates work).  Gradually they discover that an alternate England has been brought into being through the scheming of the Lone Power, and threatens to overwhelm their own reality and end all life on Earth.  To prevent it from doing so, they must forestall the assassination of the alternate Queen Victoria in her very bed--and the way they do it could only be accomplished by cats.<br />As always seems to be true in Duane's work, there are touches of tragedy--the fate of the gallant London teamleader Huff and his beloved mate Auhlae may make you reach for the Kleenex box.  But her alternate England is splendidly imagined, and there are light moments as well, like Rhiow's reflections on the possibility of finding a mate for her widowed human, Mike.  Saurian wizard Ith reappears and performs gallantly, and his and the cats' interaction with a young Arthur Conan Doyle is charming.  Now, Diane, when can we hope to see another adventure of Rhiow and her team?	2003-08-16
US	51686698	R1PHZMTOIZTBNT	0812545400	382625779	Leopard In Exile: Carolus Rex, Book II	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Wessexes go to the New World	This sequel to [[ASIN:0812545397 The Shadow of Albion (Carolus Rex, Book 1)]], as I had hoped it would, begins to somewhat flesh out the world where the Stuarts kept the British throne.  We learn (to my surprise) that the Tudors (from whom the Stuarts descend) used \\"dark forces\\" to sweep the Plantagenets aside, that the French are prone to enslaving and exploiting the native peoples (in our reality, as any historian knows, they had excellent relations with most of the tribes, and it was the Spanish who were heavily into enslavement and tyranny), and that magic seems to be the prerogative of the nobility.  We find out how a Canadian tribe (the Cree) happened to have a presence in the wilderness outside Baltimore, and meet the Mandan, who even in our own Universe were something of an enigma (here they speak a debased Latin, practise a blurred copy of the High Mass, and guard a treasure that includes the Holy Grail).  Contemporary Americans like Jefferson, Burr, and Andrew Jackson are briefly introduced, and Charles Corday--\\"Gambit,\\" the French agent who attempted an assassination at a Mooncoign masquerade party in the first book--is reintroduced and becomes a full-blown and pivotal character.  Jean Lafitte, the gentleman pirate-slaver of the Louisiana coast, is here too, along with all the major characters from \\"Albion\\": Rupert, Earl of Wessex, and his lady, the former Sarah Cunningham, who was plucked magically from our Universe to take the place of her counterpart, the Marchioness of Roxbury; Louis, the Lost Dauphin, and his bride Meriel; Illya Kosciusko, Wessex's charming Polish partner-in-espionage.  And the source of Sarah's dreams of \\"the Beast\\" is revealed as we learn the true depths of depravity to which the Marquis deSade is willing to sink.    Much of the story occurs in New Albion (the 13 Colonies of our world) and Nouvelle-Orleans (our New Orleans), to which first Sarah (frantically summoned by Meriel after Louis goes missing) and then Rupert travel.  Thestoryline owes something to \\"The Last of the Mohicans,\\" with characters at cross-purposes, captures and escapes, and the looming threat of torture and sacrifice.  True, some of deSade's scenes are not for the tender of stomach, but then anyone who's heard of him knows not to expect a \\"nice man.\\"  Also true, the authors seem a bit confused about their characters' ages: in \\"Albion\\" it was established, or at least strongly suggested, that Rupert and Sarah were 32 and 23; now, two years later, it's suggested that *Rupert* is 23!  (Proofreader asleep at the switch?)  But there's more magic here than in the first book, suggesting that they intend to amplify still further on that aspect of their world when (as I presume they plan to do) they set their noble pair against the \\"atheist\\" Napoleon, who is now deprived of his most puissant sorcerer-supporter.  The question that arises next is, Have they done enough to keep their world from turning into a copy of ours?  And can they, and the Grand Alliance (now including Denmark, since England's Prince Jamie has finally wed its Princess Stephanie), roll Napoleon back from his hoped-for conquest of the world?	2003-08-16
US	51686698	R30GMDU3RMM9HI	0756400163	108622149	A Constellation of Cats	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Stories to make you purr	Cats and fantasy have a long-recognized relationship, and this themed anthology continues the tradition well.  Most of the stories are fantasy, set in environments from Ancient Egypt (10,000 temple cats summon the goddess Bastet to help beat off the Persian invaders) to modern times (an inept witch and her two children settle into their new neighborhood with the help of a stray cat), but there's also a science fiction story that takes place on a traders' starship, and a touching, quiet tale that could have been lifted from today's headlines.  This book would make an excellent no-occasion gift for a cat-loving friend as well as an addition to your own collection.  (And if you like it, I very strongly recommend the five volumes of &quot;Catfantastic,&quot; edited by Andre Norton and Martin H. Greenberg.)	2003-08-16
US	51686698	R2Z43F5QNS6R8R	0671319795	376164972	Stars Over Stars	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Misfits prove their worth	On the planet Oleaaka, Ranger Sgt. Heyoka Blackeagle, a lupinoid hrinn who was raised in the Restored Oglala Nation on Earth, is struggling to make a going concern of the first integrated human-hrinn Ranger unit.  The hrinn are fierce fighters, but they have absolutely no concept of chain of command and hate sitting around and waiting to get in on the fight they've been promised against the insectoid flek.  Heyoka's second and longtime partner, Cpl. Mitsu Jensen, is still recovering from the brainwashing she endured as a flek POW.  And Oleaaka has what everyone assumes to be a native species of its own, the laka, who supposedly--nobody yet understands how--drove the flek off 48 years ago.  Entirely by accident, the Ranger unit discovers a hidden flek transport station, and everything starts going downhill from there.  As has been mentioned by other reviewers, the multiple pov's may be a bit hard to follow--we get the chance to see through the eyes of just about everyone, from Heyoka and his kinsman Kei to assorted laka.  But what makes the book work, like its predecessor, is Wentworth's amazing ability to put herself into the skins and minds of her nonhuman characters and portray them as true aliens, with their own cultures, concerns, and convoluted ways of thinking.  In the end there's an opening left for yet another book in the series, as Heyoka's unit literally saves the day (it's been two years since the book was published; I can only hope that the author is putting the finishing touches on the final conquest of the flek!).  Of course, I knew very early on that Heyoka was going about his program the wrong way, but given his raising that may be inevitable, and at least he realizes eventually that he can't, and shouldn't try to, make hrinn into carbon copies of humans.  At the same time, his weirdly assorted group wouldn't survive if it hadn't had *all* the beings in it that it does; each plays an important role in the final triumph.  Excellent military sf and a vivid portrayal of an alien, yet ultimately comprehensible, people.	2003-08-16
US	51686698	R21ZA2OEO9YMC3	0805031340	107250331	The People's Chronology: A Year-By-Year Record of Human Events from Prehistory to the Present (A Henry Holt Reference Book)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The one absolutely indispensable chronological volume	There are several good chronological overviews out there, but this one (overdue, after 11 years, for a newly revised edition) is the best I know of and the one I reach for most often.  No matter what historical period your greatest interest falls in, you can browse through it year by year.  You can look up your own birth year and those of friends and relatives and find out what was happening then, or refresh your memory of past times.  You can follow the repercussions of a given incident from beginning to end while noting how the world continued to spin all the while.  Of course it's heavily weighted toward more recent events (the 19th and 20th Centuries occupy 68% of the volume), but the detail is superb.  You'll find *everything* in this book--kings and presidents and prime ministers, wars and assassinations, financial landmarks, inventions, new developments in science and research, the founding of universities, newspapers, paintings, sculpture, theater, ballet, music, industry, population, and that's just the year 1801!  If you have any prospect of ever needing to know &quot;what happened when,&quot; you need to own this book.	2003-08-14
US	51686698	RTHU8WWG056P8	0803297238	351948934	The Trampling Herd: The Story of the Cattle Range in America	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Indispensable to the Old West lover's library	Novelist and historian Wellman here provides an indescribably superior one-volume story of the range-cattle business that reads as easily as fiction.  Beginning with the Spanish roots of the Southwestern cattle ranches, he goes on to tell something of the early Anglo settlement of Texas, the troubles with the Comanches, the &quot;hide-and-tallow empire&quot; built up in antebellum days, the effects of the Civil War, the clashes with the Kansans, the founding of Abilene.  He talks about stampedes and what was done about them, great trail towns and their lawmen, lean years and fat ones, the cowboy's work and play, and a gallery of unforgettable Western characters, good, bad, and indifferent.  He studies the Lincoln County War, the coming of &quot;bobwire,&quot; and why cowmen hated sheep.  There is information I got from this book that I've found nowhere else.  You will say the same.  Every lover of Western social history should be glad to see it back in print.	2003-08-13
US	51686698	R1U21JIRHT1JNO	0525485082	625860424	Painted Ladies Revisited: San Francisco's Resplendent Victorians Inside and Out	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Back to the future?	11 years after the publication of [[ASIN:052548244X Painted Ladies: San Francisco's Resplendent Victorians]], Elizabeth Pomada returned to San Francisco to gaze anew upon its Victorians, and found a new concern for authenticity, subtlety, and sophistication in what she now calls the \\"Colorist Movement.\\"  The examples she shows here, while still splendidly detailed and richly pigmented, are for the most part less gaudy than those in the first book, reflecting the emergence of yuppies onto the preservationist stage earlier occupied by hippies and radicals.  Almost the best part of the book, however, is the many interiors she has included, often by houseowners with a keen interest in authentic restoration.  Architecture and interior-decorating buffs alike will want to own this volume.	2003-08-13
US	51686698	R35RA2S7NRUESA	0803281455	373681912	Trail Dust and Saddle Leather (Bison Book)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Have your heroes always been cowboys?	I admit to a terrible weakness for good, highly detailed line drawings; I know real people and animals don't have ink outlines, but there's nothing like a great ink sketch to help you understand just how a creature, or an outfit, is put together.  Jo Mora, who deserves to be far better known than he is, was a master of the medium, and nowhere does he strut his stuff better in this book, first printed in 1946, when he was 67 years old.<br />Mora begins with a brief, humorous sketch of the beginning of the American cattle industry--the early Spanish ranchero, the antebellum Texian frontiersman-cowhunter, and at last the first great trail drives to Kansas.  He goes on to explain why the cowboy's dress and tools are as they are and how the rider does his work, complete with diagrams that show sequentially how a steer is &quot;busted.&quot;  He tells about the two chief systems of breaking a cowhorse, about the longhorn and his customs, the trail herd on the way north, the chuck wagon, the roundup, brands, rustling, and that indispensable item, the horse.  He illustrates it all with fine detailed pictures that should help anyone, even if they've never seen a real cowboy in their lives, imagine how one should have looked.  His friendly, casual voice, like that of Will James or Ramon Adams, is that of an old-timer at the campfire genially explicating upon something he loves and knows well, without ever forgetting that he may be dealing with a pack of ignorant greenhorns.  This is one of the half-score or so of books that are absolutely indispensable to an understanding of the genuine &quot;waddie&quot; and his work.  It begs to be brought back into print.	2003-08-13
US	51686698	R1AKNHH97TBMWW	0140238573	167326204	America's Painted Ladies: The Ultimate Celebration of Our Victorians	Books	5	23	23	N	N	The pinnacle of the series	Taller than any of the other books and nearly twice as thick as the thickest, this gorgeous 1992 volume (Ms. Pomada, isn't it time we got a fifth??), once again produced with the help of partner Larsen and photographer Keister, is, like [[ASIN:0525485775 Daughters of Painted Ladies: America's Resplendent Victorians]], a survey of Victorian homes from all over the country.  From Searsport, ME, where the subtly detailed, white-bodied Mansard Carriage House Inn welcomes its guests, to a pink 1887 Steamboat Gothic in National City, near San Diego, here are dozens of Victorians, large and small, somber and vivid, plus an assortment of interiors, some fully period, others furnished in more contemporary style against the richly detailed background of the time.  If you buy it to \\"get ideas\\" for your own Painted Lady, you'll find more than you can choose between.  If you buy it just to look at, be prepared to spend hours drooling!  A treasure trove for lovers of period detail, which is so admirably brought out by the creative combinations of color used in decorating these buildings.	2003-08-13
US	51686698	R2AL963N6SE67V	0525483373	473392356	Daughters of Painted Ladies: America's Resplendent Victorians	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A broadening of focus	Here Pomada, with co-author Michael Larsen and photographer Douglas Keister, branches out from her San Francisco roots in search of Painted Ladies in other regions of the country--and finds them.  Once again she shows houses of all sizes, degrees of elaboration, and amounts of gaudiness--the quietly lavender Blackberry Inn of Camden, ME, the darkly splendiferous English Queen Anne at 130 Mt. Vernon St., Boston, beach cottages on Martha's Vineyard, a vividly red church in West End, NJ, a crisp turqouise-and-cream confection from Cape May, a wondrously porched house in Savannah, GA, even a brick eclectic in Milwaukee.  One wonderful little gem on p. 89 is an Aspen, CO, cottage whose front-porch gable comprises a blending rainbow of 25 colors--&quot;14 blues of the sky and oranges from the sunset.&quot;  The Morey Mansion of Redlands, the Carson Mansion of Eureka, and several Main Street buildings are here too.  Pomada even contrived to get permission to show some interiors from a Portland house.  These lovely houses will set you dreaming even if you don't own one of the same vintage yourself.	2003-08-13
US	51686698	R20FYOVIEEBFBU	052548244X	428312959	Painted Ladies: San Francisco's Resplendent Victorians	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Joyous whimsy	If Peter Maass, in [[ASIN:0517019655 The Gingerbread Age: A View of Victorian America]] and [[ASIN:B0006C0Q1A The Victorian home in America]], first made us truly aware of the glories of Victorian domestic architecture, it was Elizabeth Pomada who showed us how it could be brought to vivid life.  In this, her first book about the modernizing-by-paint of 19th-Century houses, she concentrates on San Francisco, where the Painted Lady style was invented during the heyday of the hippies.  The houses shown in the gorgeous full-color photographs range from the elegantly somber (like Don Parodi's many-bayed house on p. 23) to the minutely detailed (the imposing Colonial Revival mansion on p. 20 and the Bert Franklin rowhouse opposite) to the downright gaudy (Rhine & Kennedy's fire-engine-red offices on p. 29, a tiny lavender cottage on p. 50, a literally rainbow-striped confection on p. 69).  If you can't make it to San Francisco in person--or if you've been, and want to relive the glories of its vintage housing--this book belongs on your shelf.	2003-08-13
US	51686698	RE3XE9LY4IDGT	0879514825	940184928	American Shelter: An Illustrated Encyclopedia of the American Home	Books	5	4	4	N	N	No historian should be without it	If you ever have reason to write (fictionally or otherwise) about American architecture (chiefly domestic), you shouldn't miss a chance to add this volume to your shelves.  (It's included in the file I always send to Old-West mavens wanting to know what they should read.)  Chapters range from two to eight pages in length and cover everything from the earth lodge of the Southeastern Plains Indians to the projected space station now three years past due.  Typically, each includes the time and region in which the original style was most abundant, a few paragraphs explaining its history and salient features, and a number of finely detailed pen-and-ink sketches portraying exterior details and often cutaways and floor plans.  The book can also be used as a field guide to help you decide what kind of house you happen to be looking at.  From log cabins to Frank Lloyd Wright, Mount Vernon to the humble Quonset hut, every major kind of American house is here.  This is an item that cries to be brought back into print.  Until it is, don't miss a chance to pick up a used copy if you're afforded one.	2003-08-13
US	51686698	R2DL78PQ5WUC7H	0486257045	954811176	A Victorian Housebuilder's Guide: Woodward's National Architect of 1869 (Dover Architecture)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	For the house lover, the house restorer, the house looker	This reprint of &quot;Woodward's National Architect of 1869&quot; is the earliest example of its kind I've seen Dover bring out yet.  Like all the Dover paperbacks, it's technically excellent, well bound, printed on sturdy paper, and clearly reproduced.  What makes it valuable to me is the era it focuses on.  There are plenty of plan books dating from the mid-'70's onward, but these transitional years aren't so well covered.<br />The only thing that keeps me from ranking it at four stars is that it is somewhat &quot;lumbered&quot; (pun intended) with carpenter's and mason's specs explaining how the houses are to be built--something most historians and architecture mavens aren't likely to find very useful.  This means it includes only 20 designs, plus a rich assortment of architectural details in the back of the book.  For the most part these are what we would call &quot;middle-class&quot; houses--not too big, not too small--plus an icehouse, a boathouse, a scholhouse, and a tidy family stable, and wouldn't seem out of place in any community, East or West, in the land.  This is a book that would be useful to the researcher as well as the casual lover of Victorian architecture.	2003-08-12
US	51686698	R26CMZRC9N279W	013712175X	72936678	The Prentice Hall Good Reading Guide	Books	5	7	7	N	N	How one book leads to another	Every truly devoted reader has had the experience of completing a novel with a deep sigh of satisfaction, shelving it among his favorites, and then wondering &quot;What can I read next that is like this?&quot;  Unless you're fortunate enough to know a good Readers' Advisory librarian or a very knowledgeable bookstore clerk, you need a book like this one to help you out.  An encyclopedically arranged volume listing 300+ fiction writers from Chinua Achebe to Emile Zola, including classic and modern names from all major countries, it is designed to help you decide what books might be &quot;most like&quot; the favorite you last read.  McLeish gives a brief sketch of the background, basic style, and major themes of each of his subjects, with a capsule review of one typical work of the more prominent ones, and suggests follow-ups keyed to their best-known genres and ideas.  There are also 19 &quot;special reading skeins&quot;--charts suggesting how a work such as &quot;Pride and Prejudice&quot; might lead in different directions depending on what you liked best about it--and over 60 &quot;menus&quot; of suggested reading on subjects from &quot;Action Thrillers&quot; through &quot;Classic Detection,&quot; &quot;The Middle Ages,&quot; and &quot;Parents &amp; Children,&quot; out the other end to &quot;Weepies.&quot;  From mainstream to horror and sf, historical fiction, romance, mystery, and even humor, it's all here.  I bought this book once, gave it away, and then bought it a second time because I found it so useful.  Don't make my mistake--once you get it, keep it.  You won't be sorry.	2003-08-12
US	51686698	R2JJUT03L5Z7YA	0446606332	106696252	The Book of Night with Moon	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Dark and Furry Fantasy for Cat-Lovers	Set in the same Universe as the Young Wizards tetralogy (and featuring guest appearances by its main characters, Nita and Kit, and their immediate wizardly supervisors, Tom and Carl), this fascinating if sometimes sad and depressing fantasy tale focuses on a team of wizards who are both Terran and nonhuman--in short, cats.  It seems that we humans share this planet with many sentient species--whales, dogs, and cats among them--and in each of these wizards are born on a regular basis.  Rhiow, a black New York City housecat, is one of them, the leader of a team that includes the constantly itching Saash (no, she doesn't have fleas, though her ehhif (Cat-language for humans) think she does) and the young tomcat Urruah.  Deep underneath Grand Central Station to investigate the malfunctioning of one of the many Gates that lead from world to world, the trio find an injured kitten, Arhu, who turns out to be a wizard-on-Ordeal--if he survives, he'll come into his power, just as they did in their time.  Gradually it becomes clear that Something very nasty is messing with the Gates, and the cats must not only help to defend the City from a plague of dinosaurs that come charging through, but penetrate to the dinos' universe of origin and find a way to stop further incursions.<br />Reflecting her other career as a writer of sf (she's perhaps best known for several Star Trek:TOS novels including the excellent Rihannsu subseries), and perhaps a belief in the corollary of Arthur C. Clarke's maxim &quot;Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic,&quot; Duane's magic is sometimes extremely technical (I can't work out how the Gates function *at all*, though the cats can).  And there are a couple of places where she might have clarified better how her world works (why did the dinosaurs retreat to a subterranean existence?  Why don't they have wizards as other sentient species do?).  The story she tells is, like that of C. S. Lewis's Narnia, an allegory of Christianity, yet it partakes of early mythology from Egypt and Sumeria as well, and even has a touch or two of Zoroastrianism.  What makes it all work is her characters.  She obviously knows cats and has spent a lot of time observing them: Rhiow, Saash, Urruah, Arhu, and the other felines who appear briefly in the book are at once distinct individuals and recognizably animals.  Even her villain, the Lone Power, is motivated and delineated in a way that makes It seem very real and understandable.  There are moments of humor (Urruah's attempts to explain the concept of opera to Rhiow when they attend a Three Tenors rehearsal in the Sheep Meadow, Arhu's delighted discovery of mozzarella cheese, Saash's ongoing attempts to elude a human with a can of flea powder) and poignancy (Rhiow's return to the apartment she shares with Hhuha and Iaehh (Susan and Mike) to discover that Susan has been killed by a runaway taxi), and an epic battle deep underground between the Team and an unexpected saurian ally on the one side and the Lone Power and Its wizardly pawn on the other.  The pyrotehnics and wild action salted throughout would make an eye-catching movie or miniseries, if sfx could figure out a good way to do the cats!	2003-08-12
US	51686698	R1FLBZRB6NJIEC	0486259722	253292892	Country Houses and Seaside Cottages of the Victorian Era (Dover Architecture)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Another great resource from Dover	Though these houses purport to be &quot;country houses and seaside cottages,&quot; there's little reason they couldn't have been built in any Victorian small town.  They range from a tiny three-room structure to a rambling 10-bedroom Dutch Gambrel mansion (called in those days a &quot;villa&quot;) to a &quot;club house&quot; (easily altered to private use), a lakeside pavilion, a Baptist chapel, a &quot;stone rectory in Iowa,&quot; and a couple of apartment blocks, one of which eerily reminds me of a building not far from my former home.  These buildings are primarily of the Eastlake or Queen Anne style, the original book having appeared in 1883, an era when the front stair-hall was often as big as any other room and used as such.  You'll need a magnifier to make out some of the details, but if you have any interest at all in late-Victorian domestic architecture, you need to have this volume on your shelves.	2003-08-12
US	51686698	RGYWC50ML03WU	0517467836	636658762	The Book Book: A Compendium of Lists, Quizzes, & Trivia About Books	Books	5	3	3	N	N	How to build a basic home library	If you can acquire all the titles in the main lists (not the quizzes or fun bits) in this slender volume, you'll find yourself in possession of over 4000 of the best books ever written on a broad range of subjects--fiction and nonfiction, classics and modern prize-winners, novels of ethnic experience, religion, seafaring, music, journalism, biography, history--almost any subject you might be interested in.  In this prequel to his more comprehensive \\"Good Books,\\" Gilbar doesn't attempt to explain *why* a book is good; he just presents you with a list (often titled with a witty pun or other lightness, such as \\"Readin', Writin', and Rememberin': 20 Teachers' True Tales\\" or \\"Hitting the High Seas: The Nautical Novel\\") of from 10 to 50-odd titles relating to a given idea, figuring you'll see at least one whose quality you recognize and be interested enough to try its neighbors.  It's a nice item to browse through for fun, too.  When I thought I'd mislaid it in packing to move, I almost panicked (fortunately it turned up at the foot of the bed not long after).  Though troubled by occasional misspellings of authors' names (try searching under the titles instead, since they seem to be mistake-free), it's definitely a bibliographical tool that every true booklover should have on the shelf--or, better yet, near the armchair.	2003-08-12
US	51686698	R27KYNJGZVZ481	0898024943	417510513	West Coast Victorians: A Nineteenth-Century Legacy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	So lovely to look at...	As Naversen points out in his introduction, the \\"Victorian Era\\" in architecture coincided exactly with the booming, ballooning expansion of that part of the country most of us think about when we think about \\"the West\\"--the lands that lay beyond the Missouri River jump-off towns of Westport, Independence, St. Joseph and Kansas City.  Here he has concentrated on houses in the Pacific Tier, from Washington down through Oregon to California, travelling from Seattle to San Diego with stops in lumber towns, Mother Lode camps, military installations, heads of navigation, and even major cities like Portland.  (It's rather a pity he didn't venture into some of the other Western states, where thousands more such treasures must lie in obscurity, but perhaps a future volume will mend the oversight.)  Using the same double-spread format as in the companion volume, \\"East Coast Victorians,\\" he studies everything from the prefabricated Frisbie-Walsh House, erected in Benicia, CA, about 1849, to the towered Queen Anne Sherwood House, built in Coquille, OR, more than 50 years later.  Large houses and small, elaborate and simple, white and multicolored, all are here, some commissioned by Western robber barons, others built for the common middle-class family.  Most are of 1880 vintage and later, but if you're a fan of Victorian housing, all are enough to set you drooling.	2003-08-12
US	51686698	R26KYKNUYK9NST	0899191320	302488904	Good Books	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The subtitle says it	&quot;A Booklover's Companion&quot;--and, oh, how very true that is!  I love to just veg out in a comfortable chair and page slowly through this wonderful compendium (I wish Mr. Gilbar would bring out a &quot;Son of Good Books&quot; that would update us on what he's been reading in the 20 years since he compiled it) of thematically arranged lists of books both famous and lesser-known.  Everything from Homer's epics to Time-Life's Old West series and the Rivers of America books is in here, each of them personally read by the compiler.  His squibs are necessarily brief--after all, he's trying to explain the attraction of some 9000 different works!--but should at least give you a hint of whether the book might be worth a look; and, as he points out, all &quot;exist and can be found&quot;--through InterLibrary Loan if you're low on funds.  But no matter how low on funds you may be, if you love to read, you should own &quot;Good Books,&quot; and that's not a general recommendation.	2003-08-12
US	51686698	R296QH7ZW4GCP	0898025508	886202512	East Coast Victorians: Castles & Cottages	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Victorian Glory	When I visit a strange town, there's nothing I like better than to wander up and down the streets, checking out the stores and the housing styles.  If I happen on a district of Victorians, you can't pry me out with gunpowder--which is why San Francisco is one of my favorite cities.  Owning this book is like being able to take a &quot;house walk&quot; any time you care to--even if it's 10 PM and blizzarding.  Naversen's gorgeous full-color photographs, each arranged in a double-spread with some history about the house, take us from the Wedding Cake House (an 1826 Federal house in Kennebuk, ME, that was Victorianized in the mid-'50's) and Lyndhurst, a Gothic stonework castle begun in Tarrytown, NY, in 1838, to the Beaux-Arts Burrage Mansion, built in Boston's Back Bay 61 years later.  Along the way he touches on all the major styles of Victorian domestic architecture, and presents houses large and small, well-known and obscure, masonry and frame, stark white and joyous Painted Lady.  (His photos of the Lesley-Travers Mansion in New Castle, DE, and the Edward King House in Newport, RI, were taken around sunset and make the buildings appear to have dipped in blood, while the 1861 Moses Bulkeley House of Southport, CT, dozes amid lush greenery, the gorgeously and emphatically Pink House of Wellsville, NY, stands like a shout against an overcast sky and foliage just beginning to turn, and the Philadelphia house called Burholme is glorious in bisque against an unbelievably blue sky.)  If you love to stare at the best examples of Victorian housing, this book and its companion are for you--but you may want to use a napkin to protect the pages!	2003-08-12
US	51686698	RJTKHWBDF8TCY	0486239047	454047428	Bicknell's Victorian Buildings	Books	5	14	14	N	N	An indispensable resource for the study of the 19th Century	Just about any of the many Victorian plan books reprinted by Dover is an excellent investment, but this is one of my top favorites.  Within a single slender volume you'll find houses ranging from tiny \\"cheap\\" cottages (they could be built for $750) to a pair of opulent $30,000 mansions (an 18-room Mansard and a towered 19-room Gothic masonry \\"farm house\\").  There are also carriage houses and stables (from a two-stall, $500 board-and-batten back-yard style to a sprawling cupolaed masonry version), schoolhouses with two and six classrooms, churches from village to cathedral size, two dignified courthouses, a jail with keeper's quarters, and elevations (though unfortunately no floor plans) of several \\"business blocks\\" (store-and-office buildings).  If you've ever wanted to get an idea of the kinds of buildings among which our small-town Victorian ancestors moved, this is a great book to start with.	2003-08-12
US	51686698	RGQK2X6RHWKOH	0671877755	536515411	Spiritride	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Elves, Shamans, Satanists, Bikers, and Wingless Angels...	If that sounds complicated, it's supposed to be.  There's little future in trying to offer a synopsis of this urban (well, sort of) fantasy romp, which takes place in the same world invented by Mercedes Lackey for her SERRAted Edge Series, and is a direct sequel to Shepherd's &quot;Elvendude&quot; (it helps if you've read that first).  The battle between Seleighe (Light Elf) King Aedhan's clan and its Unseleighe (Dark Elf) rival led by Japhet Dhu spills over into the human world, where it sweeps up 15-year-old Lucas Trask, a confused teen wavering between suicide and Satanism, and Wolf, a Native American Gulf War vet who is the last member of his tribe and the grandson of a shaman.  Wolf's presence, in turn, involves Thorn Wilson, a Rider Guardian--a sort of angel who's been dead since 1922 and serves the Lord of the Land of Shadows as the helper of motorbikers everywhere.  From Faerie to the Real World to the half-formed limbo that lies between all realities, the characters pursue each other through the interdimensional Gates, with abductions, human sacrifice, and assorted deceptions along the way.  Though fast-moving, I found the story easy to follow, and there's action enough to suit any gaming enthusiast.  I especially liked Thorn and would love to see him make a reappearance somewhere; he doesn't seem to have a lot to do here.<br />I have yet to be disapponted by any book written by Lackey or any of her co-worlders, and this novel maintains the qualitu of its predecessors.	2003-08-08
US	51686698	R3Q9Y123O43OQN	0843951990	550140086	The Mexican Saddle	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Pulp Western with a touch of mystery	This is an interesting little Western set well outside the usual time period for the genre (in Mexico, Porfirio Diaz is \\"on the way out,\\" which sets the story solidly in 1911, and one of the major characters carries a Krag rifle, first widely used during the Spanish-American War).  It was originally published serially in Smith's weekly \\"Western Story,\\" but was apparently never before brought out in book form.  It is also the first example of Foster's writing--certainly the first novel by him--that I can remember reading.<br />Jim Barre, a former Texas Ranger, and his partner, Waco Ibold, are in Carver City, Texas, at the close of the working season, jobless and with only a hundred-dollar stake (the money is Jim's).  Waco suggests that they use the money to outfit themselves as wolfers and spend the winter making a stake--but Jim has already lent the hundred to Dale Clark, a fellow cowhand, who in turn has left as security a battered old Mexican saddle displayed for sale in a local shop window at a price of $10.  Then Clark is found dead, having obviously been strenuously questioned by person or persons unknown--on the very day his twin sister Marilee arrives in town.  Next a ranch owner named Tayler (formerly the partner of the Clarks' late father, who was killed in Mexico while on his way home from having discovered a lode of wire gold) approaches Waco with an offer to buy Jim's saddle for $150.  Seeing visions of stake money, Waco sells him, not the old Mexican hull, but Jim's good $100 saddle, and they gather up an outfit and head into the Chisos to trap wolves.  Happening upon a stone shack where something sinister is going on (as a desperate cry from within testifies), they are shot at and driven off, then proceed to Gaskin's Crossroads, a trailside store run by the Clarks' uncle, where they find Ranger Captain Ringgold and a force of 10, whose assignment it is to try to keep the anti-Diaz excitement from spilling northward.  Gradually they discover that the old Mexican saddle is supposed by more than one person to conceal some secret hint to the location of Clark's lost gold mine, and that everyone and his brother--Tayler, a Carver City deputy named Stupe Waddell, a Mexican bandido-revolutionary who goes by Agapito deGriego--seems to want to get his hands on it.  A cross-Border gunrunning scheme and the possibility that Tayler actually stole the ranch from the young Clarks add even more complications.<br />As might be expected in a story written for the pulps, Foster concentrates much more on action than on character; there is little explanatory depth to his people, except when we learn that Jim left the Rangers because he was forced to go after a man who had once been his friend, and his romance with Marilee Clark seems very sudden, almost as if Marilee herself was added to the story as a convenient pawn or because a love story of some kind was expected in any pulp Western.  That much said, the story is fast-paced and holds the attention thoroughly, and has a great element of mystery interwoven with it (what *is* the secret of the saddle?  Will Jim decipher it before one of the enemy can acquire it?).  The wry cowboy banter between Jim and Waco is delightful, very reminiscent of Clarence E. Mulford's style, and the 20th-Century setting doesn't obtrude: except for Waco's Krag and the occasional reference to the disturbances attendant upon the Mexican revolution, you could easily believe it to be set 25 or 30 years earlier than it is.  There are several very well-written action scenes and one unforgettable horse, Jim's buckskin Monte, who is a pet and a \\"pie-biter.\\"<br />I bought this book on a venture because I had a good coupon at Borders, but I'll definitely shelve it among my favorites and be watching for more Foster.	2003-08-08
US	51686698	R9SE1RE6HWTMI	0345434692	343656718	The Skies of Pern	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Pernese society continues to evolve	It has been thirty years or more (the book could definitely benefit from a chronological appendix) since the Hatching of Ruth, the White Dragon, and the Lost Colony of Pern is now experiencing what most of its inhabitants devoutly hope will be the last Threadfall ever.  The central question of this latest Dragonrider novel, then, is, What will Dragonriders and their Dragons do when there is no more Thread to fight?  For some, the holdborn, the question isn't too vital: they need only return to their ancestral occupations.  Others are moonlighting as carriers of mail and light freight.  But new challenges continue to arise: the Abominationists, a Luddite group that disapproves (to the point of terrorism) of the new technologies imparted by the AIVAS computer at Landing, and the splashdown of an Object From Space (either a huge meteorite or a small asteroid), which results in a world-circling tsunami from which the Dragonriders must struggle to evacuate the inhabitants of lower-lying settlements.  It is this Object which reveals the role the Dragonriders must play After: they will be the Watchers of the Skies, the defenders of their planet from similar debri.  And green Zaranth, ridden by the female Rider Tai, displays a new talent which shows how such debri will be dealt with in future.<br />Most of the familiar characters reappear in this novel (including Weyrleader F'lar, now in his 60's, and his Weyrwoman Lessa), but the main concentration is on F'lessan, son of F'lar and Lessa, and on Tai, who proves to have been severely psychologically bruised by her dragon's previous mating flights.  Of course, it's almost mandatory to have read the previous volumes, but I can't imagine anyone who buys this book not having done so.  And it's reassuring to see that the Pernese recognize that their world needs only adopt so much technology and no more; their society need not be totally shaken to its roots by the revelations of AIVAS.<br />I'm sure McCaffrey never anticipated, when she published &quot;Dragonflight&quot; in 1968, that 35 years later she'd still be chronicling the history of Pern in a series that has now grown to 16 volumes.  My only question is, how will she follow this act in the chronicles of one of the most beloved sf societies yet to appear in print?	2003-08-08
US	51686698	R24EHXF4ACIFY	0061056006	128270526	Cat on the Edge: A Joe Grey Mystery (Joe Grey Mystery Series)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	If You Like Rita Mae Brown...	then you can't afford not to sample the Joe Grey mysteries, of which this is the first.  Joe, a tough, stump-tailed tomcat, lives in the arty little California coastal village of Molena Point with Clyde Damen, who repairs and restores high-end and antique cars for a living, and Clyde's two dogs and three other cats.  For several weeks he has felt a \\"strange identity change\\" taking place in him: he has gained the ability to understand human speech in all its nuances, then to speak it; he's also begun to think on a human level, analyzing, appreciating natural beauty, planning his day, speculating on metaphysical subjects.  He's even, inexplicably, suddenly become able to read!  On top of this shock comes another: he witnesses a murder in the alleyway behind a local deli.  And the killer seems to realize that Joe could be a threat to him, since the very next morning he tries to break into Clyde's house.  Forced to go on the run, Joe teams up with Dulcie, a charming little brindle female belonging to retired parole officer Wilma Getz, who is a long-time friend of Clyde's; Dulcie too has just realized that she shares Joe's talent.  Trying to preserve their own lives, they realize, requires that they help the police nail the murderer--which, in turn, draws them into a stolen-car ring and a counterfeiting scheme.      Meanwhile, Kate Osborne, a friend of Clyde's, has discovered that she can change from human to cat shape and back again...    The twists and turns of the plot, while complex, are so well drawn that the story flows easily from point to point, and the cats, apart from their fantastic abilities, are recognizably felines who behave just as any housecat might, yet at the same time are distinct and well-delineated characters.  The fact that Joe and Dulcie have to do their maneuvering behind the scenes--only their own people, and Kate, are allowed to learn about their new talents--adds a fresh angle to the so-often-repeated \\"amateur detective\\" motif.  I've gone on to read the second book in the series and it maintains, if not exceeds, the quality of the first.  Lovers of cats, mystery, and fantasy are sure to find this book a thorough delight.  (Note: Murphy is also the YA fantasy novelist Sylvia Engdahl.)	2003-08-08
US	51686698	R2GKL60FY624BF	0397321651	571846578	The Secret Garden: The 100th Anniversary Edition with Tasha Tudor Art	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A classic for all ages	Still in print after almost a century (it was originally published in 1909, though it seems to be set during late-Victorian times) and well-deserving of the honor, this may not be the best known of Burnett's juveniles, but it's certainly the *best*, and the most accessible to a modern audience.  It's also one of those books that can still be enjoyed whether you're eight or 88--as all the very best juvenile books are.<br />\\"Mistress Mary Quite Contrary\\"--Mary Lennox, daughter of an officer in the Raj--is orphaned by the cholera and sent to live in Yorkshire at the home of an uncle she's never met.   Misselthwaite Manor, like its adult cousin Wuthering Heights, is a gloomy if splendid old pile and full of strangeness and secrets.  Long accustomed to emotional self-sufficiency, Mary may not be sympathetic at the outset, but she's probably the only kind of child who could prosper in this neglectful environment.  Her first friends are Ben Weatherstaff, the grumpy senior gardener, Martha Sowerby, the chambermaid assigned to her, and \\"our Dickon,\\" Martha's free-roaming brother who loves and charms all animals.  But it's \\"the robin\\"--a very special little redbreast who may be more than he appears--who leads her to the walled rose garden where her transformation takes place.  In resurrecting it from its decade of neglect, she finds herself--and learns the wisdom that enables her to save her cousin Colin, a bedridden invalid whose great fear is that he will become a hunchback.<br />Burnett skillfully portrays the gradual change in character that comes to Mary and Colin and succeeds in the difficult task of transforming them from unsympathetic to thoroughly normal, likeable children.  Her underlying themes are the redemptive quality of nature and the idea that it is never too late to overcome one's faults, yet they're so subtly presented that young readers will find the book simply a fascinating, well-told story.  Like many classics, it would make a perfect family read-aloud,and should be found on the bookshelf of every child in the land.	2003-04-09
US	51686698	R1CX0P1MWBF0CF	0743435486	519289007	Lord Darcy	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A perfect introduction to the type	It's great to see paperback publishers bringing out \\"unitary editions\\" of OP classics for the benefit of those who were too young to know them when they first appeared (or have read their original copies to rags), and Garrett's Lord Darcy trilogy is one of the best choices this particular house could have made. In a splendidly imagined and explicated parallel/alternate 20th-Century world where magic not only works but has been officially codified and where the milieu takes off from recognized historical events (Richard Lionheart didn't die at the Siege of Chaluz in France in 1199, and his descendants went on to create the Anglo-French-speaking Angevin Empire, where physics, not sorcery, is the stuff of fairy tales--the internal-combustion engine and wired communications have never been invented, yet magic operates according to mathematical theory), Garrett seamlessly brings together sf, fantasy, espionage, and murder mystery in the adventures of Lord Darcy, Chief Investigator for the Duke of Normandy, and his friend and assistant, Master Sorcerer Sean O Lachlainn. \\"Too Many Magicians\\" is a full-length novel with elements of international intrigue lent by the machinations of Casimir IX of the Polish \\"quasi-empire,\\" who, like Hitler, dreams of continental (if not world) domination, while \\"Murder and Magic\\" and \\"Lord Darcy Investigates\\" are collections of short stories originally published in various sf magazines in the '60's and '70's. Garrett (now, sadly, deceased) was obviously a student of history, and he's also a skilled and ingenious plotter who shows a real mastery of what used to be called the \\"locked-room mystery.\\" Though some of his characters' explanations of how and why magic works may seem a bit tedious, your patience in reading them through will be rewarded--everything in them contributes to your understanding of Lord Darcy's reality. And he throws in some great curve balls too: while \\"Mechicoe\\" is a duchy of the Empire's New World possessions, it's stilladministered by a (Christianized) descendant of the Montezumas.  I can think of no similar book that's as good apart from Poul Anderson's \\"Operation\\" stories. These books can truly be appreciated as examples of more than one genre and should reach a crossover audience.	2003-04-03
US	51686698	R2PE0QOCT37A72	0671318578	753300534	Retief! (A Collection of Stories)	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Diplomacy Saves the Galaxy--Sort Of	Keith Laumer is among my favorite writers of &quot;light&quot; sf, and these three books, the first in the long series (13 volumes that I know of, counting each original volume as one) of Retief adventures, show why.  Filled with sharp pokes at government bureaucracy (Laumer himself was connected with it for many years and knew whereof he wrote), they follow the wild adventures of Jaime Retief, a member of the Corps Diplomatique Terrestrienne with more than a touch of James Bond in his makeup.  Constantly redeeming his superiors' blunders, usually by making an end run around the &quot;accepted&quot; way of doing things, he bounces in and out of serious bodily peril and thwarts at every turn the machinations of the Groaci, whispering five-eyed aliens with a penchant for torture and a thirst for universal domination.  (The books were originally published in 1963, 1965, and 1968, in the very heart of the Cold War, which suggests that these villainous beings were intended as an analogue of the Communists.)  Yet the stories never take themselves too seriously, and very little happens that couldn't safely be shared with a child.  I've collected Retief religiously, and joyously, for some 30 years, and I don't regret a bit of it.  You won't either.	2003-03-29
US	51686698	R2CLKKF1A1GRFT	0898799228	289293894	Everyday Life During the Civil War (WRITER'S GUIDE TO EVERYDAY LIFE SERIES)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	All the pluses and minuses of the series	As is the case in all the &quot;Writer's Guide to Everyday Life&quot; books, it is of course impossible for author Varhola to cover in full depth in so brief a book the vast and complex canvas that was the American Civil War.  That much said, he does a very good job with the space he has.  His price lists, descriptions of money, and period terms are especially well done and useful, and I found his descriptions of city life fascinating.  As is usual, he does slip up once or twice (canned goods, for example, were developed in Napoleonic France and first commercially manufactured in the USA in the 1820's, though it's true that the industry didn't really take off till the War created a huge demand for portable food with a long shelf life), but that's probably inevitable.  He also provides a lengthy bibliography which (with the Recommendations on this page) should give interested readers plenty of detailed background on the aspects that most intrigue them.  This is definitely a book that should be read by all CW social-history buffs.	2003-01-20
US	51686698	R1TZ7T8H9KBGFE	0529039923	433401228	The Young United States, 1783-1830: A Time of Change and Growth; A Time of Learning Democracy; A Time of New Ways of Living, Thinking, and Doing.	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Not to be missed	This volume in Tunis's trilogy of social histories (the others are &quot;Colonial Living&quot; and &quot;Frontier Living&quot;) focuses on an era that tends not to be as closely studied by most people as are the Revolutionary era and the 19th Century, which means that books about it are thin on the ground.  But if, by some chance, it's one of your interests, &quot;The Young United States&quot; is a book you must definitely add to your collection.  With Tunis's trademark highly detailed pen-and-ink illo's and clear, well-written commentary, it provides an excellent overview of how all levels of society lived during the 40-odd years under consideration.  I found it indispensable in determining how the father of one of my fictional characters--a veteran of the War of 1812--would have grown up and what his surroundings would have been like in Federal America.  Adult researchers should not fail to consult it.	2003-01-17
US	51686698	R214P8E01WF7WH	158574137X	110634071	Frontier Living: An Illustrated Guide to Pioneer Life in America	Books	5	47	48	N	Y	Indispensable for adults as well as young readers	The subtitle says it all: \\"An Illustrated Guide to Pioneer Life in America, Including Log Cabins, Furniture, Tools, Clothing, and More.\\"  From about 1725 to the closing of the frontier, Tunis examines dozens of aspects of American frontier life in this sequel to his \\"Colonial Living,\\" and even touches on history (the little-known Black Hawk War, the Santa Fe trade, etc.).  His clear, detailed pen-and-ink sketches provide a perfect visual accompaniment to written commentary.  (Check out the household articles on pp. 24-5, the tub mill on p. 40, the spinning wheels and loom on pp. 46-8, and--my favorite--the elementary prairie well-drilling rig on p. 157, to take just a few examples.)  As is often the case with juvenile social histories, he manages to touch on things you don't learn in books written for an adult audience, so the volume should be useful to researchers of every age.  My one complaint is the positioning of the page numbers, which are buried in the crack of the binding!  This is a book I was delighted to add to my collection, and I recommend it to everyone who has an interest in pre-1900 America.	2003-01-17
US	51686698	R1X892XL78N701	0801869323	238107059	Oars, Sails and Steam: A Picture Book of Ships	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A splendid pictorial history	I've always believed that even an adult researcher should keep the juvenile section in mind, and this book is a perfect example of why.  Clear, easily comprehended text covers all the highpoints of the history of ships, from the floating log to modern passenger liners; illustrations are beautiful and detailed, and there's an extensive glossary of nautical terms at the back.  With this volume to help you, you will be well \\"launched\\" (no pun intended) in your quest to learn about historic watercraft.	2003-01-17
US	51686698	RB35ILDSLUHBY	0801862272	359728515	Colonial Living	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Even adults should read it.	Team this volume with Tunis's &quot;Frontier Living&quot; (though there's a bit of overlap in the time periods covered) and you'll have a good, sound, easily understood social history of the first 280 years of the USA.  As always, his illustrations are clear and detailed and his text well written and easy to follow.  If, for whatever reason, you can't visit an actual reconstructed Colonial community, having this book on your shelf is the next best thing.  (Much of the information in it can probably be carried forward into the early and mid-19th Century, too.)  A classic of its type and one we should all be overjoyed to see back in print.	2003-01-17
US	51686698	RCT751312V693	B00005WAHN	970427801	The look of the old West	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Nothing quite like it before or since	It was in reading this book out of my public library, when I was about 12 years old, that I got thoroughly and irrevocably hooked on 19th-Century social history and the study of the material artifacts our ancestors used on a daily basis.  When I found it in the secondhand bookstore where I was working 10 years later, I snatched it so fast I'm surprised my boss didn't hear a sonic boom!  Foster-Harris covers everything from the uniforms of the Civil War veterans who rushed westward after Appomattox in search of a new life, through the weapons they carried, the transportation they made use of, the trails they followed, the homes they built--almost anything you might want to know about--and provides simple but clear illustrations to help you visualize what he's talking about.  Some of his &quot;facts,&quot; as I've come to learn by checking other sources, aren't quite accurate: he claims, for example, that Western women &quot;never&quot; wore pants or rode astride, but my research has shown that even Eastern females admitted that &quot;these pioneer Western women are of a different breed,&quot; and saw no scandal in their riding &quot;Indian-style&quot; (as straddle was delicately called at the time); Mark Twain in his letters tells of at least one maverick lady he knew in the Comstock, and many women who dressed and lived in masculine style, Calamity Jane and &quot;Mountain Charley&quot; Pankhurst not the least, are historically substantiated.  But for sheer material detail, his book is hard to beat, and it should be found on the shelf of everyone who writes about, or is curious about, the way Westerners lived in the heyday of the free range.	2003-01-17
US	51686698	R9CSIKNW85FNS	0898795419	666537423	The Writer's Guide to Everyday Life in the 1800s (Writer's Guides to Everyday Life)	Books	4	24	24	N	N	A once-over-lightly, but surprisingly useful	I've been researching the 19th Century (with specific attention to the Old West, but a lot of Eastern culture got transplanted there, so inevitably I've had to learn about that too) for 35 years now, and I still find that a book can occasionally give me some information I didn't have. This is one such volume. Though not by any means an in-depth treatment of the period--no one book could ever cover all the fascinating details of everyday life and society in a hundred crowded years--it did provide me with an assortment of vernacular terms I'd never seen before, a sidebar on stagecoach etiquette, another on the treatment of various common contagions, some information on how safecrackers cracked safes, a good chronology of popular magazines, and various other tidbits to add to my ever-expanding files of information. <br />Author McCutcheon does occasionally neglect to give facts that would soften some of the gloomy picture he paints. He states that \\"The nineteenth-century home was a woman's...confines...[and her] work was never done...,\\" but fails to add that household help was cheap and abundant, and even \\"mechanics\\" (what we would call skilled workers) earning less than a dollar a day could afford at least a maid-of-all-work; also that the housewife was generally assisted by a resident aunt, mother or mother-in-law, unmarried sister, older daughter, or some combination, as well as neighbors. He doesn't point out that women's rights were a focus of much attention through much of the century and their status did improve, especially after about 1845. Nor does he give any space to the many eccentrics and rebels, from Dr. Mary Walker to Calamity Jane, who defied convention and got away with it. The reader will need to consult other books to obtain a more balanced, to say nothing of a more detailed, picture of the era, and although the many references used in the text are enumerated, there is no bibliography of suggested readings in this volume as there have been in othersin the series (I strongly advise looking in the bibliographical essays of assorted American histories to find some titles worth seeking out, as well as checking out the \\"Recommendations\\" and \\"Readers Who Bought This Book...\\" listings on this page). Still, you will definitely learn things from McCutcheon that you won't readily find elsewhere, and the book is certainly worth your read.	2003-01-03
US	51686698	R3TMX7AJR6A04Y	0898797527	230820894	The Writer's Guide to Everyday Life in Renaissance England: From 1485-1649 (Writer's Guides to Everyday Life)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	It could do with more illustrations...	Most Americans who would be interested in such things, after all, have probably visited a Colonial reconstruction (like Williamsburg) at some point, and seen the artifacts of the period up close and personal, so it doesn't matter too much that the volume this series offers about Colonial America isn't too well supplied with pictures.  But visual recreations of Elizabethiana are thinner on the ground, and it would have helped to have been able to see something of the objects described (I had to haul out one of my costume references to comprehend the description of Anne Boleyn's trademark headdress, for example).  That much said, the book is packed with useful information ranging from plots against the Virgin Queen to how much things cost to education, language (including the Scots dialect), and witchcraft.  And it offers sizeable bibliographies of other books to seek out in connection with various specialized subjects.  On balance, I have to say that I got a lot out of it, and would recommend it as a good jumping-off place for students as well as writers.	2002-12-31
US	51686698	RD4WNZTA1RZYX	0898797721	973685603	The Writer's Guide to Everyday Life in Colonial America (Writer's Guides to Everyday Life)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	A good basic volume	The Writer's Guide series is intended to &quot;syntheize the many facts available into concepts that help you understand the period without excessive study,&quot; to quote the author's introduction, and in that this volume of it succeeds well.  Of course, in a book of this size, such a large number of subjects can only be covered in a fairly superficial manner, but the extensive bibliographies do help by providing pointers to other useful works.  And since social histories always tend to be thinner on the ground than mainstream ones (battles and kings and Parliaments), any comprehensive book on the subject is welcome.<br />The book starts out with a general timeline, then offers a regional overview of the major developments and occurrences in each of four major regions, and goes on to touch on everyday life (food and drink, architecture, clothing and accessories, marriage and family), government and war (including &quot;money, economy, trade, travel, and navigation&quot;), and Colonial society (arts and sciences, trades, professions, religion).  Period terms and unusual colloquialisms are emphasized by a special typeface.  Though the illustrations are relatively few, they are clear and well-chosen, and there are several sidebars showing such things as weights and measures and the sequences of commands used in artillery and in matchlock-rifle companies.  It may simply be because I don't often have occasion to look into social histories of this era (my period is more likely to be 1840-90), but I found that this one provided me with quite a lot of useful information.  Writers and casual students alike should be able to say the same.	2002-12-31
US	51686698	R5AUPBOJWGKM4	0152045821	93958120	Diane Duane's Box of Wizardry	Books	5	9	10	N	N	While waiting for the next Harry Potter...	...this would be a perfect series to explore.  Like Rowling, Duane (who doesn't write nearly enough, in my opinion--Diane, are you listening?) tells the story of youthful magic-users growing into their powers, learning as they go, and facing an ongoing threat from an insidious enemy.  Her main characters, both mavericks among their kind, are well-drawn and sympathetic, and the books (and their sequels) can also be read as Christian allegory.  Though usually packaged for \\"young adults\\" (which in pubspeak means kids 11 up), they are, like Harry Potter, well-written and exciting enough to appeal to grown-up readers too.  Now at last the first three books in the series are again available in a popularly-priced paperback edition.  Excellent modern fantasy and not to be missed.	2002-12-06
US	51686698	R21ONDI93U79TV	0879236612	565057238	Winter Holiday (Godine Storyteller)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Proving that fun isn't limited to summer	It's been a year and a half since the Walkers (the Swallows) first met the Blackett sisters (the Amazons) and were plunged into Captain Nancy's adventurous worldview (not that they didn't have one of their own already).  Now, for the first time, we see the six from an outside view--though still that of young people: Dick Callum, astronomy buff, and his sister Dorothea (\\"Dot\\"), aspiring novelist, are staying at the lake while their parents are off digging in Egypt over the Christmas holidays, and are caught up in the adventures of the senior group when they attempt to \\"signal to Mars\\" by night.  The Walkers and Blacketts, inspired by the coldest winter the lake has experienced in living memory, are training for an expedition to the North Pole (the far upper end of the lake), \\"only the beastly Arctic won't freeze.\\"  Quite unexpectedly Captain Nancy saves the day by coming down with mumps, which requires all the others to be kept out of school for a month lest they spread the contagion.  The Blacketts' uncle Captain Flint reappears too, playing a pivotal role in the expedition's preparations.  Much of the story is told from the viewpoint of the ever-imaginitive Dorothea, whose writer's mind puts a unique spin on what she sees.  As always there are misunderstandings with the \\"natives\\" (local adults, rechristened Eskimos for purposes of the season), and a literally chilling sequence during which the Callums are blown to the Pole by a sudden blizzard.  Ransome here proves that it doesn't have to be summer for his Lake Country to provide plenty of good story fodder, and in the process gives us a unique children's adventure tale that should be as eagerly welcomed as a read-aloud as any of the others in the series.  Not to be missed.	2002-11-26
US	51686698	R2787BDOAI4WK2	087923864X	164150419	Pigeon Post (Godine Storyteller)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The ultimate volume of theseries	This was the first of Ransome's \\"Swallows & Amazons\\" series that I ever read, and it's still my favorite.  We find the Swallows (the four Walkers), the Amazons (Captain Nancy Blackett and sister-Mate Peggy), and the D's (Dick and Dorothea Callum) headquartering at Beckfoot, the old Blackett house, while impatiently waiting for Captain Flint (the Amazons' Uncle Jim) to return from South America.  \\"His mine wasn't any good,\\" says Nancy, and she decides to fill in the time by searching for gold up on the high fells above the lake, following hints given by Slater Bob, a local miner.  Complicating the program is the distance from Beckfoot to the target area and the fact that the Lake Country is seeing its driest summer in memory--and the presence of the mysterious lanky man the explorers call \\"Squashy Hat,\\" who seems to be looking for the same thing they are.  The book takes its title from the three homing pigeons the Blacketts own and resolve to use to keep Mrs. Blackett informed of their adventures while they camp nearer to the moors.  The countryside is splendidly drawn, the children are unique individuals well sketched, their adventures and inventions are so thoroughly described that an American child could probably duplicate them, and there are thrills galore when the fells catch fire.  What's more, the eight actually find...but that would be telling!  Read it for yourself and find out.<br />Like most children's books of its period, this one is equally enjoyable by adults and would make a splendid family read-aloud.  Highly recommended.	2002-11-26
US	51686698	R39AHUF6Y5SCCJ	0879235721	449786655	Swallowdale (Godine Storyteller)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Peril and adventure on the Lakes	One year after the events of &quot;Swallows and Amazons,&quot; the four Walkers return to the Lake to spend the summer holidays, looking forward to more thrilling adventures with the Blackett sisters and their uncle, Captain Flint.  To their dismay, they discover that the Blacketts' Great-Aunt--a strait-laced and somewhat tyrannical person who brought their mother and uncle up--is staying at Beckfoot and badly cramping the two pirates' style.  And then the Walkers' boat &quot;Swallow&quot; is wrecked on the far side of the lake, forcing them to find a new camp.  In dealing with these challenges the six show their mettle once again--and even manage to get away for an overnight climb of Kanchenjunga, as they christen the tallest of the nearby hills.  Along the way Roger and Titty get lost when a sea-fog rolls in over the moors, and the outwitting of Great-Aunt Maria furnishes a fair share of suspense.  Once again Ransome tells his tale without talking down, seeming to assume a child's viewpoint with an ease matched by few writers.  Another excellent family read-aloud that should be owned by every household even if they don't care for boats or camping.	2002-11-26
US	51686698	R62W30R8H4HY4	087923573X	449786655	Swallows and Amazons	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A timeless tale of childhood adventure	The great strength of Arthur Ransome's &quot;juveniles&quot; is that he never talks down to his young readers (which makes the books equally enjoyable by adults), and despite his own years, he seems to be able to slip effortlessly into an underage mindset and share the wonder and imagination of young people living what is in essence a fantasy life with a very solid grounding in reality (preparing their own meals, sailing to Dixons' Farm for their milk each morning).  Set in the gorgeous Lake Country of Northern England, it follows the four Walkers (John, Susan, Titty (presumably her real name is Letitia!), and Roger (baby sister Vicky is too small to take part in their adventures), as they go camping on the small island they have observed from the farm where they're spending their summer holidays, explore the lake and its shores, and meet the Amazons--sisters Nancy (&quot;Shiver my timbers!&quot;) and Peggy Blackett, who were &quot;born on the shores of the Amazon River, which flows into this ocean.&quot;  Living on a houseboat anchored in a nearby cove is the Amazons' uncle, whom the six (following on Titty's declaration that he must be &quot;a retired pirate&quot;) quickly christen Captain Flint.  When he accuses John of setting off a firecracker on his cabin roof, war is declared.  Meanwhile there's a thrilling cutting-out expedition by dark of night as the Swallows try to capture the Amazons' boat so John can be Commodore of the Fleet, an encounter with the charcoal-burners known as The Billies (Titty. ever the most imaginitive of the group, calls them &quot;savages&quot;), and a burglary of the houseboat (not, of course, by the children).  The story climaxes with the Fleet's assault on the houseboat and a splendidly described thunderstorm.<br />All six of the child characters are individuals sketched with loving and lifelike attention, who behave like real children; that they're British and growing up in the '30's may take some adjustment (and explanation to younger audiences), but it doesn't detract from the joys of the book.  The imagery and names they use for their surroundings are wonderful.  Like all the series, it would make a splendid family read-aloud.unger audiences), but it doesn't detract from the joys of the book.  The imagery and names they use for their surroundings are wonderful.  Like all the series, it would make a splendid family read-aloud.	2002-11-26
US	51686698	R16CGPTE5AT5DM	0879237872	236179732	Coot Club (Godine Storyteller)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Thrills galore on the Norfolk Broads	In this book Ransome focuses on the two most recently introduced members of his juvenile cast, Dick and Dorothea Callum, who are sent to spend part of their Easter holidays with Mrs. Barrable, their mother's old schoolmistress, along the rivers of the Norfolk wetlands.  Eager to learn to sail so they can take part in the adventures planned for the lake next summer, their spirits plummet when they learn that Mrs. Barrable \\"can't sail her boat by herself\\" and plans to use it only as a houseboat.  Unexpected salvation occurs in the form of Tom Dudgeon, son of a local doctor, who finds himself a fugitive after setting a motor-cruiser adrift to protect a coot's nest being observed by himself and his five friends (Port and Starboard, the twin girls who live near the Dudgeons, and the Death and Glories, Joe, Pete, and Bill).  Seeking shelter from the outraged motorboaters aboard Mrs. Barrable's rented craft, he meets the trio and finds instant common ground, and quickly agrees to serve as Captain and teach the Callums \\"the ropes.\\"  Though there's less imaginative play in this book than in the rest of the series, it still features Ransome's splendid insight into juvenile minds and character, plus loving description of the countryside and a strong consciousness of the environment that must have been unusual in the 1930's.  Though this volume will never be my favorite of the series--somehow things are never so lively without Captain Nancy Blackett on board!--it succeeds on its own terms and will be a pleasant change of pace for families reading aloud in sequence.	2002-11-26
US	51686698	R1L8PCQ51ZPZ8L	0553575414	621617883	Cat on the Scent: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Marvellous Mrs. Murphy Does It Again	The sixth &quot;Mrs. Murphy Mystery,&quot; featuring Mary Minor &quot;Harry&quot; Haristeen and her pets (Mrs. Murphy, the tiger cat; Tee Tucker, the corgi bitch; and Pewter, the fat gray cat who used to live in Market Shifflett's grocery), takes some interesting new tangents. There's a Civil War re-enactment, a haughty Britisher who gets shot (not fatally) in the very midst of the fray, a small plane hidden in an old stone barn, and a missing pilot; a dismaying discovery by the three animals in a pit full of discarded farm machinery, and the revelation it leads to; an appearance by the Reverend Herb Jones's cats, Elocution and Lucy Fur, who've been mentioned but never introduced before in the series; a cabal that may or may not be illegal but is certainly leading to some strange doings; and a murder that goes unsolved, even by the notoriously nosy Mrs. Murphy. <br />The high point of the novel, though, has to be the astonishing scene in which Tucker and the cats, having discovered Harry's neighbor Blair Bainbridge lying in his Porsche freshly shot, contrive to literally drive the car home to their mistress so she can call for help. It sounds incredible, but as Brown has set it up (foreshadowing with a newspaper story about a dog ticketed for driving without a license), it just seems a believable outgrowth of a series in which animals talk to one another, read the mail and the newspaper, and help solve crimes while still acting plausibly like animals. A not-to-be- missed entry.	2002-10-23
US	51686698	R3NFTQKWM0RQ08	0553287532	183214458	Wish You Were Here: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	5	2	3	N	N	For Lovers of Cats, Dogs, &amp; Murder	If you're one of those people who sometimes looks at your pet and thinks, &quot;What is he *really* thinking?&quot; or &quot;I wonder how much she *really* understands?,&quot; this delightful mystery and its sequels are right up your alley. Mrs. Murphy, a gray tiger cat, and Tee Tucker, a corgi bitch, live with Mary Minor Haristeen (aka &quot;Harry&quot;), postmistress of the little country corner of Crozet, Va. When local paving contractor Kelly Craycroft turns up in a dismembered condition in one of his own cement mixers, Harry and her pets (assisted by Pewter, the fat gray cat who lives in the market next to the post office) are drawn inexorably into the case through Harry's realization that the killer uses anonymous picture postcards to telegraph his intentions. The gimmick is that we readers (unlike the humans in the story) can understand what the animals are saying to one another--and they prove to have very keen perceptions regarding the murder and subsequent events. And when the killer's identity is at last revealed, it's Murphy and Tee whose teeth and claws save the day.<br />This is the first of an ongoing series of &quot;Mrs. Murphy Mysteries&quot; signed by Brown and her cat Sneaky Pie. Whether Sneaky actually had a paw in the writing is for the reader to decide, but certainly Brown has a keen insight into the animal mind: the behavior of the pets and their private reflections on the human condition ring very true. The human characters, too, are unforgettable: Harry's soon-to- be-ex-husband, ambivalent veterinarian Fair (Pharamond) Haristeen; Mrs. Miranda Hogendobber, widow of Harry's predecessor and a devout member of an obscure Christian denomination; Mim Sanburne, grande dame of the village; Rick Shaw, the chain-smoking sheriff who finds himself in water deeper than he expected, and his able second-in- command, Off. Cynthia Cooper. Flavored with witty humor and vivid portrayals of the Virginia countryside and customs, &quot;Wish You Were Here&quot; and its sequels are not to be missed by pet-lovers and mystery aficionados.	2002-10-23
US	51686698	R3E7UWW71R6XA3	0879516259	606419790	The Overlook Film Encyclopedia: The Western	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An Invaluable Resource	If, like me, you love Westerns and have cable, this is a book you need to own.  Its detailed synopses and reviews have helped me over and over again in deciding what previously-unknown movie to set the timer for.  Each capsule-essay includes year of release, run time, director, major stars, and some information about the story, with brief critical remarks.  The many bw photographs, though rather small, are just so much gravy.  You can also just sit down with it and start going through the listings so you can compose a Wish List!  With this book and Fenin &amp; Everson's &quot;The Western,&quot; you have a good basic foundation in Western-film criticism and history.	2002-10-20
US	51686698	R2JSQRLPZK6E2D	3452467643	978663166	Western Paintings of Frank C Mccarthy	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Charlie Russell of the 20th Century	Writes McCarthy in his introduction to this collection: &quot;I paint to achieve visual impact--trying to redesign...the beauty and character of...the mountains, streams, lakes, deserts, and most of all, the rock.  I put into this setting the characters that roamed it: mountain men, free traders, cavalry, cowboys, and Indians...wagon trains and the stagecoaches.&quot;  If impact is what he was after, he succeeded beyond his wildest dreams.  With almost every page you turn in this full-color book, you're hit between the eyes by a painting of near-photographic quality that seems to catch action between one breath and the next--two road-agents ambushing a coach as it fords a shallow creek in &quot;The Last Crossing,&quot; a Plains war party defying an unseen foe in &quot;The Cry of Vengeance,&quot; a Cavalry patrol racing across the desert in &quot;Forward by Twos.&quot;  There are quieter moments too--an Indian warrior petitioning the spirits in &quot;The Prayer,&quot; which owes some debt to the well-known &quot;End of the Trail;&quot; a mud-wagon making its slow way across a sage flat in &quot;Bleak Dawn;&quot; two cowboys and their packhorses in &quot;Packing In.&quot;  The stark beauty and sheer size of Western landscape is splendidly captured, as are the details of costume and tack, and action and pageantry blend seamlessly; I know of only one other contemporary painter (Olaf Wieghorst) who does horses anywhere near this well.  Many of these paintings were originally commissioned as paperback book covers, which accounts for their unique layout, and to get the most out of them you may want to equip yourself with a large, high-quality magnifier.  Anyone who loves Western art should have this book on his shelf, right alongside Remington, Russell, and their ilk, as I do.	2002-10-13
US	51686698	RJSXIQCDUA197	0486412520	538388704	The Victorian Home in America: With Over 250 Illustrations	Books	5	22	22	N	N	The Man Who Raised Our Consciousness	15 years before this book appeared, the author, born in Austria but converted to a love of Victorian architecture upon his arrival in the US, produced &quot;The Gingerbread Age,&quot; the first popular volume that dared to express admiration for a period in building then considered the nadir of the art.  In his Foreword to this work he talks of the &quot;torrent of fan mail&quot; that followed.  It's not saying too much to maintain that his work was responsible for the eventual revival in Victorian architecture which began with the hippies creating Painted Ladies in '70's San Francisco and swept the nation in the mid-'80's.  Having established the true quality of post-Greek-Revival, pre-World-War-I houses, he turns here to a deeper analysis and description of the different major styles--Gothic, Italianate, octagons, Mansards, Queen Anne, Richardson Romanesque.  Lavishly illustrated with bw photographs, floor plans, and reproductions of period pictures, its text written in everyday language with little specialized jargon, and provided with a large appendix listing where to view existing Victorians and a sound list of books to go on to, the book concentrates chiefly on exteriors, though some views of notable rooms are included.  If you're looking for good basic overviews of domestic building of the era, Maass's two books are indispensable to your collection.  As a social historian, I consult them often.	2002-10-13
US	51686698	RJCE599I00PM7	0486223779	813688146	Montgomery Ward Catalogue of 1895 (Dover Pictorial Archive)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Another Treasure Trove of Late Victorian Culture	Like the Sears Roebuck catalogue, which sits beside it on my shelf, this unabridged reprint is an indispensable tool for anyone who wants to know the kinds of items that might have been found in a typical middle-class home a hundred-odd years ago.  In some ways it's even superior: the illustrations have reproduced more clearly, with their details better visible, and the type, though you may still want a magnifier to read it, is also more easily made out.  Prices are of course included, though you'll want to allow for the fact that MW was at that time not a conventional retail house, but confined to mail-order, which allowed it to undercut the &quot;traditional&quot; merchants just as Net sellers can today!  There's a full index right at the front, where you can easily look up whatever you may be interested in at the moment; or you can simply open the volume at random and start browsing.  And, unlike Sears, it even has a toy section!  Like all Dover books, its paper and binding are superior in quality, and will doubtless last very well.  Since the items listed don't duplicate exactly, I strongly suggest purchasing both catalogues.  As a writer of historical fiction, I use both frequently.  Highly recommended.	2002-10-09
US	51686698	R35FZQ2TZQP4H9	0152022562	401444616	Return to Gone-Away	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A Hint of Mystery	Enright makes her first foray into juvenile mystery as an element of this story.  It's been a year since Portia Blake and her cousin Julian Jarman unexpectedly stumbled upon marshy \\"Gone-Away\\" Lake and its resident eccentrics, octogenarians Pindar Peyton and his sister Minnehaha, who quickly became \\"Uncle Pin\\" and \\"Aunt Min.\\"  Now the Blakes have purchased Mrs. Brace-Gideon's old mansion, the Villa Caprice, just back from Gone-Away Lake, to be their summer home.  The focus of the book is in their efforts to restore it--and in the children's quest to discover the hidden safe which (so their \\"Aunt\\" Minnehaha tells them) exists somewhere in the house.  I always find myself wishing I could get my hands on a house like this one!  Another splendid Enright, gloriously returned to print.	2002-10-08
US	51686698	R1SDP5GF0070OD	0805070613	200450738	The Four-Story Mistake	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Momentum Retained	This second in the Melendy series is at least as good as the first, and perhaps even better.  Not only do all the \\"family\\"--the four children, their father, housekeeper Cuffy, and handyman Willy Sloper, plus dear friend Mrs. Oliphant--return, but there's a wonderful new (actually Victorian) house in upstate New York, new friends (many of them adult), and the beginning of Mona's longed-for career as a serious professional actress.  Slightly accident-prone Randy continues her pattern (running her bike into the back of the Carthage bus, spraining her ankle while ice-skating), and Rush finds a way to contribute to the family finances; even Oliver, the \\"baby\\" of the family, has his day in the sun when he discovers a \\"treasure trove\\" in the basement.  The book seems to take place in 1941, and World War II intrudes more into the Melendys' lives than it did in the previous one, but it's not in any way disturbing; it's almost more like a distant radio playing in the background.  Like all the best juvenile writers of her era, Enright \\"talks\\" to her audience as if they were intelligent human beings, which makes the book thoroughly as enjoyable by adults as by kids, and in fact an excellent family read-aloud.  Not to be missed.	2002-10-08
US	51686698	RDZJRE8898ANH	0152022724	572974536	Gone-Away Lake (Gone-Away Lake Books (Paperback))	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Gentle, Funny Delight	Written and set about 20 years later than the author's Melendy series, this book and its sequel prove that Enright hadn't lost her insight into juvenile character.  Portia and Foster Blake head for upstate New York to visit their cousin, Julian Jarman (an enthusiastic amateur naturalist--Portia says that Foster, who's keen on Outer Space, \\"knows the names of everything *out* of the world, and [Julian knows] the names of everything *in* it\\"), and his parents.  Like the Melendys at the Four-Story Mistake, the Jarmans have just shifted quarters, and thereby hangs the tale: exploring the countryside, Portia and Julian happen upon a former lake mostly drained by a new dam, and edged still by the crumbling remains of a community of late-Victorian summer houses.  Living there are two elderly eccentrics who spent their childhood summers at the resort and inspire a season of wonderful reminiscences and adventures.  This is another excellent family read-aloud with splendidly drawn characters (both children and adults) and a vividly described background, as well as great relationships between the kids and the grown-ups.  I still reread it regularly though I'm a long way from being age 9-12!	2002-10-08
US	51686698	R2L6T4TXR2NOAO	0805070605	633090626	The Saturdays	Books	5	63	63	N	N	A Classic!	\\"The Saturdays\\" has been among my favorite juveniles since I discovered it in the library 40 years ago.  I'm now in my 50's and can't count how many times I've gone back and reread it.  What a treat to see that, at last, some astute editor has had the savvy to bring it back into print so modern audiences can enjoy it--and in a durable hardcover at that.  This is a perfect read-aloud for families, in part perhaps because of the age-spread of the four children: preschoolers will envy six-year-old Oliver his lone excursion to the circus, young teens will identify with 13-year-old Mona's stirrings of adolescent rebellion as exemplified by her decision to have her \\"long butter-colored braids\\" cut off, and middlers will like 10-year-old Randy's creation of the Independent Saturday Afternoon Adventure Club and the unique situations that befall her (like befriending the formidable and exotic Mrs. Oliphant or tumbling out of a rowboat on Central Park Lake).  Each child is a real human being and an individual character whom Enright draws to perfection.  And the setting (New York in, probably, early 1940 or '41) will intrigue the younger generations and bring a glow of nostalgia to the older ones.  This book should be in every household library in the land!	2002-10-08
US	51686698	R3C5Z1VJMT845V	0805070621	598848873	Then There Were Five (The Melendy Quartet)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Darkness and Light	The third Melendy novel has a darker undertone than the preceding two, with the introduction of Mark Herron, a lonely orphan befriended by Rush and Randy, and his guardian-cousin, the fearsome Oren Meeker.  There are thrills and heart-clutchers a-plenty--Rush and Mark spying on an illegal whiskey still, a vividly described house fire--but they're nicely leavened by the lighter incidents like the character of Mr. Jasper Titus, rural gourmand, and the resolve of Mona and Randy to undertake the canning of the family's victory-garden produce.  World War II, also, is a more looming presence (the time seems to be the summer of '42), as the family's ancient car, \\"the Motor,\\" is up on jacks \\"for the duration\\" (they get around by way of a one-horse surrey!), Rush and Randy start a scrap drive \\"for the soldiers,\\" and the Melendys' beloved father takes a hush-hush war job in Washington, which ultimately leads to the kids being left on their own when housekeeper Cuffy is unexpectedly called away to help an injured cousin.  But in the end everything comes out right, as it should in a juvenile.  This is the book to which Enright was leading up with the previous two, and perhaps the best she wrote.  The whole trilogy would make a splendid miniseries on TV (is any executive reading this? I'll even do the script!).	2002-10-08
US	51686698	R3R4A3RM374VE6	0671577883	367834271	Black on Black	Books	4	11	11	N	N	An Auspicious Debut for a Series	One of my favorite subdivisions of the vast sf field is what I call the \\"culture-dependent\\" story--one that takes place on an alien world and turns upon the differences between its native race and humanity. It's not an easy type to write convincingly, because a human author naturally tends to think like a human, and up to now there are only two--C. J. Cherryh and Poul Anderson--whom I've found really capable of getting into an alien's skin and viewing the Universe through its eyes (and sometimes other senses). With \\"Black on Black,\\" new author Wentworth, like Superman clearing a tall building, joins this auspicious company in a single bound.<br />Ranger Sgt. Heyoka Blackeagle, his name to the contrary, is not an Oglala Sioux (though he was reared by one), but a hrinn--a lupine type of nonhuman, seven feet tall, with an all-over coat of black fur, two thumbs on each hand, and retractible claws on every digit. Invalided out of the Service after sustaining a leg wound in the ongoing war against the insectoid flek, he makes up his mind to visit his homeworld, Anktan, for the first time in his conscious memory (his foster father rescued him from a slave pen when he was little more than an infant), and try to find his roots. His human partner, Cpl. Mitsu Jensen, is due a leave and goes with him. <br />His initial contact with other hrinnti is both confusing and dismaying: they take him for an \\"Outsider\\" and \\"one of the Dead\\" (their name for anyone with an alien smell), yet at least some of them seem to attach great importance to his coloring--solid black outer- and undercoats, with not a speck of other hue (hence the title of the book). Gradually he discovers that he may be the last survivor of the Levv, a Line that was destroyed by an alliance of hrinnti for supposed infractions of the species' social code at about the time of his birth; that his coming has been the subject of prophecy--and that something very peculiar is going on at the local Confederation base. <br />When Mitsu is captured by one of the hrinn Lines, then mysteriously vanishes after supposedly being returned to her own kind, it's up to Heyoka to weld the quarrelsome Lines--dominated by females--and the males' houses into a single force that can somehow prevent the flek from completing the transport grid they've been secretly constructing in the back country for over 30 years. If he fails, his people will be destroyed, their world remade to suit flek ideas of perfection, and the enemy will have a staging area from which to strike at dozens of nearby planets.<br />For all his alienness, Heyoka is a sympathetic character whose feelings of rootlessness in a human culture and struggle to repress \\"the other who lives inside him\\" echo the frequent literary theme of alienation. And the hrinnti, though hardly the most sympathetic nonhuman race in sf--with their savage quarrelsomeness and lack of any concept of friendship or family--are fascinating in their gradually revealed history, their fixation on what they call \\"patterns,\\" and their image of the godhead, which they call \\"the Voice.\\" <br />Wentworth slips readily from human to hrinnti viewpoint, and when reading chapters written in the latter, it's easy to forget that this is a fictional people invented by a human. What resolves the story is the ability of some hrinnti, Heyoka among them, to \\"use power\\"-- somehow storing and channelling a kind of cosmic electricity through their own cells: a concept that is, to the best of my knowlege, completely new to the genre.<br />If you enjoy adventures on distant worlds and like to meet new species, \\"Black on Black\\" is your kind of book.	2002-10-07
US	51686698	R2DEZJO8HXHRH4	1400031354	405618230	Tears of the Giraffe (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, Book 2)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	The Return of Mma Ramotswe	Here is the second in Smith's acclaimed new series about the only female private investigator in Botswana. Although more episodic than his debut volume, it maintains the latter's quality with its lyrical style, careful pace, and rich evocation of culture, country, and characters. (I am inevitably reminded of my all-time favorite detective writer, Dell Shannon, who invariably kept one major-case thread running throughout each book while cleaning up assorted smaller ones--sometimes humorous, sometimes grave-- along the way.) <br />We find Precious Ramotswe newly engaged to her longtime friend, Mr. J. L. B. Matekoni, owner of Tlokweng Road Speedy Motors, and in the process of promoting to assistant detective her loyal secretary Mma Makutsi. The emphasis is more on the couple's domestic affairs--the search for an engagement ring, the decision as to which house they will live in, and Mr. Matekoni's thoroughly unexpected acquisition (his bachelorhood notwithstanding) of two foster children--than on casework, but there is still a wife's faithlessness to expose, the fate of a long-missing young American to determine, and Mr. Matekoni's vindictively jealous housemaid to deal with.<br />Like Shannon, Smith skillfully blends the humanizing details of his characters' private lives with the work they do, and although the New York Times called Mma Ramotswe &quot;the Miss Marple of Africa,&quot; to me she seems more like Mrs. Pollifax (another old favorite). At least two further titles are in the wings. If they're as good as this one, they'll be well worth the reader's time.	2002-10-07
US	51686698	RTKGCOLIXWRHF	1400031346	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Delightful New Detective	Mma Precious Ramotswe, Botswana's only female private investigator, should probably have called her agency \\"No. 1 Lady's,\\" since she's its sole operative. But apart from that grammatical slip, she doesn't miss a trick. A \\"traditionally built\\" (read: stout) person creeping up on 40, she decides to enter this field with the money she gains from the sale of her father's cattle after his death. With little more than a desk, a telephone, a typewriter, a small white van, her cleverness and common sense, her loyal secretary Mma Makutsi (who graduated the Botswana College of Secretarial and Office Skills with an average grade of 97%), and the occasional assistance of her good friend, Mr. J. L. B. Matekoni, owner of Tlokweng Road Speedy Motors, she solves cases that range from a freeloading con artist who has tricked an honest woman into believing he is her father, to the abduction for sinister purposes of a young boy by native witch doctors--who have a connection to a very prominent citizen.<br />Smith clearly knows the country and people of which he writes, and succeeds in giving his story a lilting, lyrical flavor that makes the reader feel almost as if she is listening to a story being spun by a native tale-teller. This first of the series bodes well for volumes to follow.	2002-10-07
US	51686698	R37DY7T3P4F1WO	0812545397	690733690	The Shadow of Albion (Carolus Rex, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	When is a Regency Not a Regency?	THE SHADOW OF ALBION, described as the first volume in the Carolus Rex Trilogy, includes many elements of the traditional Regency romance: a concentration on the \\"ton\\" (British nobility) and its manners and activities, a marriage of convenience (by order of the King!) that turns into something more, a cold-hearted hero and tomboy heroine, and lots of research, including a rich use of period-appropriate language (\\"abigail\\" for \\"lady's maid,\\" for example). But--as might be expected of a book co- written by one of the best-known names in science fiction and fantasy--it's not *just* a romance. First, it takes place in an alternate world where the Stuarts never lost the British throne: in 1805 England is ruled by Henry IX, great-great-great-grandson of the Merry Monarch, Charles II, through his legitimized son the Duke of Monmouth. With no overbearing Hanovers to push them to rebellion (though Henry's daughter Maria is married to a member of that family), the North American Colonies are still just that--colonies, though loosely ruled and in many ways autonomous--and the Mississippi Valley remains a French possession as Napoleon Bonaparte storms across Europe, with dark ambitions for the entire world. Sir John Adams is the British envoy to the Danish court, the Marquis deSade is a supposed sorcerer in Napoleon's service, Talleyrand is the head of French internal security, and nobody is quite sure what became of Louis-Charles, son of Louis and Marie Antoinette, after his parents were guillotined. In England, plots are afoot to return the country to Catholicism, while the Dowager Duchess of Wessex (the hero's grandmother) and a network of helpers seek to keep humanity in a peaceable relationship with the Oldest People--the Faery Folk.<br />This is what sparks off the story, as the young Marchioness of Roxbury, dying of consumption, is forced by one of the Duchess's operatives to change places with one of her alternate selves--Sarah Cunningham of Baltimore-in-*our*-world--sothat her line can continue and the promise \\"that Roxbury and Mooncoign would always do what must be done for the People and the Land\\" can be kept. That change, of course, is accomplished by magic--and so the element of fantasy is introduced to the tale, to run as an undercurrent through all that happens subsequently. And plenty does: espionage, valorous escapes, attempted assassinations, alarums and excursions about the countrysides of two nations, diplomatic maneuverings, plots and counterplots exposed and foiled, love affairs, Sarah's marriage to Rupert Dyer, Duke of Wessex, the discovery of the whereabouts of the \\"Young King\\" of France, and the sudden sorcerous vanishment of a Danish ship-of-the-line bearing the Princess Stephanie to her wedding to \\"Prince Jamie,\\" the future James III, 19-year-old heir to the British throne. And although the connection isn't completely clarified in this volume (the authors are said to be working on the next), there's an element of dark sorcery suggested in Sarah's dream of a non-mortal \\"Beast\\" somehow connected to Bonaparte's ambitions.<br />Though Rupert is a rather unsympathetic hero, Sarah more than makes up for him: a tomboy woods-runner in her American girlhood, struggling to understand why the new life in which she finds herself seems unfamiliar and wrong, and eventually using her skills and gifts to play a large part in everyone's salvation. Illya Koscuisko, Rupert's Polish partner-in-espionage, is a delightful original and worth knowing; he and the Young King are almost worth the price of the book in themselves. It's also fun, if you're a history buff, to puzzle out the differences between the Carolus Rex reality and our own. There are even hints of that classic TV series, \\"The Wild Wild West,\\" in the resolution of Rupert's confrontation with one of the many plotters he must deal with.<br />To anyone who (like me) has been reading Andre Norton almost since there was any, it's clear from the style that much of the writingwas done by co-author Edghill (who happens to have been, under another name, a former neighbor and fanzine partner). But the fertile Nortonian imagination is clearly at work too, and the two have turned out an intriguing read. I'll be watching for Volume Two.	2002-10-07
US	51686698	R2M9WW98WP98MS	0886778778	790232584	The Morgaine Saga (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	SF With a Fantasy Feel	In the '70's just about every fantasy writer felt compelled to turn out one or more books about a tough female warrior.  Morgaine is a direct descendant of those warriors--but better.  The Morgaine Saga is sometimes considered fantasy, and with its low-tech cultures, its aura of timelessness, and Morgaine's own trappings--a horse to ride, a sword to close the Gates--it does have something of that feel about it, but a close reading will show that the worlds in it are clearly Lost Colonies that have slipped back to a pre-industrial level.  What makes the books work is the people--Morgaine and her vassal Vanye: a hard, practical leader tested by virtual immortality, and an angtsy exile who fears, loves, and admires her all at the same time.  And Cherryh's almost poetic style lends a sense of a saga being woven by some Homer of the future.  The three novels in this omnibus, and their sequel &quot;Exile's Gate,&quot; may rank with the Chanur Saga as Cherryh's best.  They're among the few novels in my collection that I make time to reread.  Not to be missed.	2001-12-29
US	51686698	R1ZI1JCH8JX6KE	0553070096	549136498	The Art of Bev Doolittle	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Gorgeous Western Art	Bev Doolittle's definitive collection (you don't need anything else of hers if you have this one) is a glorious compendium of richly detailed full-color reproductions of her paintings.  The optical tricks alone are worth the book's price tag, and the minuteness and authenticity of Doolittle's details rival the paintings of Frank C. McCarthy (another favorite of mine).  Anyone who loves illustrations of horses, American Indians, or both cannot call their collection complete without this title.	2001-12-28
US	51686698	RY0ZW3FGR1ESW	0590428330	4656352	Catwings	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Delight for Kids &amp; Adults	This is the perfect book for cat-loving adults to read aloud to cat-loving kids--and then guiltily snatch for their own shelves.  Four alley kittens are born with wings (much to their mother's astonishment) and use their unusual capabilities to seek out a more hospitable place to live.  The kittens are distinct personalities and their plight and trek are movingly told.  A future classic.	2001-12-28
US	51686698	RDMM6IZ7SQ3YF	0886779308	51191767	The Chanur Saga	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Getting Into Aliens' Heads	When I think of authors who have the ability to &quot;think like a nonhuman,&quot; the first name that pops into my mind is Cherryh's--and the Chanur Saga, of which this omnibus includes the first three volumes, is the prime exemplar of why.  The hani, a race of sapient felinoids with a female-dominated culture, are so perfectly portrayed that the reader, observing their reactions to the first human in their experience, feels like an alien herself.  A richly imaged background of other species (the mahendo'sat, who are anthropoid, and the stsho, who are somewhat reminiscent of the court of Ancient Japan, are my favorites) provides splendid contrast, and Meetpoint Station, where they all intermingle and trade, is the best-drawn hive of scum and villainy since Mos Eiseley Spaceport.  No lover of hard sf, space opera, or alien first-contct stories, which blend seamlessly here, can afford not to have this volume and its sequels (&quot;Chanur's Homecoming,&quot; &quot;Chanur's Legacy&quot;) in her collection.	2001-12-28
US	51686698	R225KU4RK12S9M	0471143944	822841867	Houses by Mail: A Guide to Houses from Sears, Roebuck and Company	Books	4	16	16	N	N	If Only the Pictures Were Bigger...	...I'd give it five stars.  This book is a treasure trove for old-house mavens, especially those interested in early 20th-Century domestic vernacular architecture.  Houses of all sizes and styles are included, most with full floor plans--which, unfortunately, you often need a magnifying glass to view clearly--and all with an illustration showing the exterior, as well as the dates sold, price, and other useful information.  Many of the writeups also show interior suggestions.  A very useful book.	2001-07-19
US	51686698	R1BONJ971VXTB0	0791046265	39860089	1897 Sears Roebuck & Co Catalogue	Books	4	14	16	N	Y	A Cornucopia for Historians	You'll find *everything* in this reprint, from buggies and bicycles to books to groceries.  (You'll need to mentally adjust the prices, since Sears was at that time strictly a mail-order wholesale house, and like the e-merchants of today could drastically undercut the traditional retailers: I've found that adding 50-100% to their list, unless they give another one in the adcopy, will give you a good idea of what \\"brick-and-mortar\\" merchants would have charged for the same item.)  A splendid resource for anyone interested in the minutinae of everyday late-19th-Century life.  If they'd only included toys, it would be perfect!  The small print is a bit hard on the eyes and the illustrations sometimes rather dark, but the book as a whole is well worth buying.	2001-07-19
US	51686698	RYZP7LN5RDXB	0671876422	938991157	Oath of Swords	Books	5	30	33	N	N	A Hard-SF Writer Turns Successfully to Fantasy	I've been talking this book and its sequel (The War God's Own) up to everyone I can find including the owner of the Genreflecting website.  I was so impressed that I actually wrote Weber a letter--and that's something  I've done only once before.  Bahzell Bahnakson is a delightful new hero  (though some readers may be just a tad put off by his Irish speech  pattern)--loyal, bullheaded, true to his own sense of ethics, and not  without a *mind* withal.  There's plenty of action and humor, a vividly  imaged world, well-drawn characters, and lucid, logical explanations of how  and why gods and magic work.  Even Tomanak Scale-Balancer, Bahzell's divine  patron, is sympathetic--nowhere near as remote as some fantasy god-figures.   My only complaint was that there was hardly any magic at all in the first  third of the book!  A good read, fast-paced, solidly plotted, and well  written.  Highly recommended.	2000-06-02
US	51686698	R3C0DXHAJV0CCS	0671577921	904025755	The War God's Own (War God (Weber))	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Sequel That Works	Many sequels fall short of the original, but this one doesn't.  Weber hits the ground running and maintains his pace throughout.  I had recently read &quot;Oath of Swords&quot; (for which see my review) and broke a cardinal  rule--I pulled the sequel out of my to-be-read stack and read it out of  order, I was that eager to find out what happened next!  I wasn't  disappointed.  Weber develops his character and world to a further degree,  introducing Bahzell's people (including his parents and several sibs), a  female Champion of Tomanak, and a young knight-probationer who goes from  priggish prejudice to a deep bond with the hradani.  Also back is Wencit of  Rum and, of course, Bahzell's patron, Tomanak Scale-Balancer.  The author  has done his research, too, as in the scenes where Bahzell visits a  dwarvish settlement and sees what's clearly a blast-furnace in operation.   The ending leaves room for more, and I'll be watching.  Excuse me--I want  to go update my Eyes listing!	2000-06-02
US	51686698	RT3IQDRBFFLZX	1564586464	323032282	France (Eyewitness Travel Guide)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Perhaps the best of its kind	This gorgeously illustrated guide to the whole of France is just as interesting for the browsing armchair tourist as for the traveller who actually plans to go abroad.  It provides not only standard tourist  information but fascinating background on French history, lifestyle, etc.   The maps in the Appendix are perhaps a little difficult to use, but the  book is worth the price just for the thousands of full-color photos and  cutaway diagrams.	1999-02-26
US	51686698	R2SNEI70S6QRMV	1886370028	213611758	Rick O'Shay, the Dailies: 1963-1964	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A humorous comic begins to offer serious Western adventure	Nine complete story arcs are included in this collection.  Three of them turn, rather distractingly, on the intrusion of 20th-century life into what otherwise appears to be a classic Western environment, but the other six  could quite easily have happened just as Lynde has drawn them.  My own  favorites are &quot;Paris Green,&quot; &quot;The Byte Boys&quot; (featuring  Rick's female gunslinger friend Lily), and &quot;Law and Disorder.&quot;  A  nice mix of humor and action characterize the entire book.  Recommended.	1999-02-26
US	51686698	R37FTN5XIIM1OF	1886370133	315617516	Rick O'Shay and Hipshot: The Price of Fame	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A highly recommended graphic Western novel	Stan Lynde's often humorous daily-and-Sunday strip from 1959-77 goes serious with a two-volume graphic novel focusing on the long friendship of Conniption City Marshal Rick O'Shay and gunfighter Hipshot Percussion.   When Hipshot is forced to shoot three wanted outlaws, he attracts the  attention of a dime-novel publisher whose resulting paperback brings in the  reputation-seekers for months thereafter.  Rick must find a way to protect  his friend and his town.  Lynde's art has matured wonderfully, his  characters are distinctive and skilfully drawn, and there's a real flavor  of the Wild West about the story and art.  Any Western-lover should  definitely buy this set.	1999-02-18
