US	51687115	R7J5WA256U7CH	0486237265	126340988	The Discovery of Neptune	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Dover should re-publish this out-of-print gem	Since ancient times, it was known that there are six planets; no more, no less. This all changed in March 1781, when William Herschel serendipitously discovered and identified the first modern-era planet, which was subsequently named Uranus. This discovery shook the astronomy, and the rest of science with it, and it is comparable with Galileo Galilei's 1610 proof that the Earth is not the only planet with a satellite.<br />The new planet, however, did not behave entirely predictably, and evaded precise tabulation of its trajectory. (The emphasis here is on precise - the observed discrepancies in the order of ten arc seconds were well below the angular resolution of the naked eye.) Collecting more precise observations did not help - the tables were either correct for the older measurements, or for the newer. More than 70 years later, the planetary astronomy was still unable to explain the irregular motion of Uranus. Is it caused by the drag force of aether? Does Uranus have a massive, though unobserved satellite? Is there an yet undiscovered planet disturbing its motion? Did Uranus collide with a comet? Or, worse of all, does Newton's law of gravitation fail at such large distances?<br />Independently, two young astronomers, John Couch Adams in England and Urbain J. J. Leverrier in France tackled the problem by postulating a new planet in the orbit outside that of Uranus, as predicted by Titius-Bode Law, and calculated its gravitational pull on Uranus for different positions of the new planet. Fitting the positions to the experimental data, they were narrowing down the possible positions. By the end of September 1845, Adams finished his calculations, and tried delivering them personally to Sir George Airy, the Astronomer Royal. Airy was unavailable at the moment and later, when he read the report, he was skeptical about it. Adams felt rebuffed. Meanwhile, Leverrier presented his preliminary calculations on November 10, 1845. On June 1, 1846, he presented his completed analysis, Recherches sur les mouvements d'Uranus. Once Airy read this report, he realized that the predicted position of the new planet agreed with result of Adams' paper (which he kept in the drawer all this time) within a couple of degrees, and directed England's most powerful telescope, that of the Cambridge Observatory, to start searching for the new planet in July, 1846. For various reasons, the search didn't yield any results. At the same time, Leverrier was unsuccessfully trying to convince any French observatory to participate in the search of the new planet. Not wanting to miss any chance to instigate a search for the hypothetical planet, Leverrier sent his report also to Johann Galle at the Berlin Observatory. Galle received Leverrier's letter on September 23, 1846, and after convincing his superior, Johann Encke, proceeded with the observations that same night. Equipped with the excellent Berlin Academy's Star Atlas and Leverrier's data, he discovered the new planet within hours. Now, however, the question of who was first one to calculate the predicted position of the new planet, and whose name should it bear, really broke out...<br />The discovery of Neptune is perhaps the most famous story in the annales of astronomy, a story where the key individuals, without doubt gifted by talent and industrious, were also struck by luck. Not only Galle, also Adams and Leverrier were lucky, as Neptune happened to be favourably positioned and allowed simplifications of the otherwise intractable many-body problem for part of the orbit where the perturbations of Uranus were measured. The postulate they both used in their calculations, the empirical Titius-Bode Law, also later turned out not to hold for Neptune.<br />Grosser shows a great mastery of the subject, and the tiny book is a delight to read. Accompanied with a short glossary of astronomical terms used, an extensive list of notes to each chapter, an impressive bibliography list containing everything from theprimary sources to every paper on this topic published by the time when the book was written (1962), and finally an extensive index, The Discovery of Neptune sets a high standard of a thoroughly-researched and excellently written popular science history work, one I only desire to see more often in the more recent works of this kind.	2002-02-18
US	51687115	R2JKEC4W5U24JO	0596000707	451991764	Effective awk Programming (3rd Edition)	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Most Complete Coverage of Awk	Awk is one of those handy Unix tools with which you can easily impress people. Using a simple<br />/pattern/ { action }<br />syntax, you can construct powerful one-liners. Do you want to how much time in total you spent surfing the Internet? Here it is:<br />awk '/Connect time/ { s += $8 } END { print s }' /var/log/messages<br />It doesn't get much shorter in any other programming language, does it? Need to strip text of HTML tags? Need a frequency count of words in a text? Awk is the perfect tool for tasks like this. With its pattern-action structure, powerful regular expression mechanism, associative arrays and basic program flow control, it provides a powerful tool for manipulating flat text files. Even though other scripting languages may be richer in features, there exists a niche where Awk is just the right tool to do the job.<br />Arnold Robbins, the author of this book as well as of several other books on Awk, serves also as the maintainer of GNU Awk (gawk for short), the most influential version of Awk available today. With the version 3.10, released in 2001, GNU Awk became richer for a handful of new extensions over traditional Awk, most important among them are the TCP/IP networking and the support for internationalization. All new extensions are described in the book. How successful these new extensions will be is doubtful, however. Networking scripting niche is already well covered with Perl and Python, and internationalization doesn't really matter much in short throw-away scripts Awk is usually used for.<br />With all due respect to the creators of Awk and their book (Alfred V. Aho, Peter J. Weinberger, Brian W. Kernighan, The Awk Programming Language, Addison-Wesley, 1988), I have to say that \\"Effective Awk Programming\\" is probably the best Awk tutorial on the market today. If you are serious about learning Awk, you shouldn't be without it. If you are still hesitating whether it wouldn't be wiser investing those 28 USD elsewhere, here is chance to read it before you buy it: install GNU Awk 3.10, and the Texinfo source of the book comes with it. But sooner or later you will find O'Reilly RepKover binding too tempting...	2002-02-01
US	51687115	RZ0LW9F5SM2IP	0345368436	772657774	Douglas Adams's Starship Titanic	Books	2	11	21	N	N	There is a good side to it: it's short!	Let us start with a quick quiz: in which city does the London Bridge stand? Lake Havasu City, Arizona, USA. OK, another one: who wrote Douglas Adams's Starship Titanic? Well, Terry Jones, of course.<br />So what does Douglas Adams have to do with Douglas Adams's Starship Titanic, if anything at all? Well, he is the author of a storyline for a computer game of the same name. I believe that the phrase &quot;a novel written after the computer game&quot; pretty well summarizes it, and prepares the reader for the quality of plot (s)he is to encounter. If you are considering yourself a great fan of British humour, please try to forget the names Douglas Adams and Terry Jones for a moment and re-evaluate it pretending that it was written by an unknown author from Ukraine, or Nebraska. See what's in it?<br />As a great fan of Hitch-hiker's Guide to the Galaxy from over twenty years ago, I have saddenly observed the stagnation and decline in originality and quality in its author's later works. It's sad to see Douglas Adams and Terry Jones (ex Monty Python's Flying Circus) themselves prostituiting like this. Really sad.	2002-01-30
US	51687115	R3TUF7IJWQYCKJ	0308702328	61755983	More Unkempt Thoughts.	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Did satire die with communism?	Do you find most sit-coms imbecilic and Monty Python's Flying Circus, well, adolescent? Then what you are looking for is satire. As Ambrose Bierce, the great American satirist of the late 19th and early 20th century put it in his Devil's Dictionary, satire is &quot;an obsolete kind of literary composition in which the vices and follies of the author's enemies were expounded with imperfect tenderness. In this country satire never had more than a sickly and uncertain existence, for the soul of it is wit, wherein we are dolefully deficient, the humor that we mistake for it, like all humor, being tolerant and sympathetic. Moreover, although Americans are `endowed by their Creator' with abundant vice and folly, it is not generally known that these are reprehensible qualities, wherefore the satirist is popularly regarded as a soul-spirited knave, and his ever victim's outcry for codefendants evokes a national assent.&quot;<br />One thing is true. For reasons unknown to me, when you are trying to think of a 20th century satirist, he is likely to be Russian, Polish or Czech. And none of them published anything during the last ten years. Satire seems to be especially flourishing in a repressive environment, be it Austrian-Hungarian empire, tzarist Russia, or communism.<br />Stanislaw Jerzy Lec (1909-1966), a Polish aphorist, was one of the last grand masters of the art of satire. His brilliant bitter-sweet collection of aphorisms, &quot;Mysli nieuczesane&quot;, was first published as a serial in 1957, and English translation by Jacek Galazka followed in 1962. &quot;More Unkempt Thoughts&quot; is a follow-up, published posthumously in 1968. If you can find this gem, give it a chance.	2001-09-18
US	51687115	R2S9VIIO7Z6I7I	1569247668	499310942	Prospero's Cell: A Guide to the Landscape and Manners of the Island of Corcyra (Corfu)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	A poet as a tourist guide?	The English writer Lawrence Durrell spent four years on the island of Corfu together with his first wife Nancy Myers in the years 1935-1939. He has collected his memoirs on this period during his staying in Alexandria during the WWII.<br />Prospero's Cell evades genre classification. It is an autobiography, but not a particularly factual one - for instance, along with Lawrence and Nancy, the whole Durrell family - his mother, two brothers and sister - came to live on Corfu for the same period, a fact he only acknowledges in a passing remark or two. It is written in a form of a diary, but the story flows without paying any attention on the interpunctuating dates. It claims to be a guide to the landscape and manners of the island of Corfu, but is useless as such. It spends a considerable time discussing the history and myths concerning Corfu, but the material is not laid out in a systematic and scholarly manner, and is probably of low value as a historical text.<br />Apart from ephemeral characters, the four personae make out the main cast: apart from Lawrence and his wife, there is also a doctor, biologist and polymath, Dr. Theodore Stephanides, and a bohemian Armenian journalist, Ivan Zarian. (Both are actual persons, of course; apart from here, Stephanides also appears on Gerald Durrell's My Family and Other Animals, and Henry Miller's The Colossus of Maroussi.) However, Durrell has taken the liberty to interrupt occasionally this chronicle of their living, their thoughts etc. with a treatise on the Saint Spiridon, the island patron; or Karaghiosis, the puppet theatre hero; or a long treatise on the island history and myths concerning it. Prospero's cell ends with &quot;some peasant remedies in common use against disease&quot;, a &quot;synoptic history of the island of Corfu&quot;, lists of places to see, things to visit etc., and finally concludes with an anthology of letters written by Edward Lear, an English painter who spent on Corfu several years in mid-19th century.<br />Durrel's language is like brocade: rich, heavy and very sophisticated. He is too serene and spiritual to talk humour, even when the topic is indeed funny, e.g. the accident with the Corfu fire brigade, the Zarian's obsession with &quot;Mantinea 1936&quot; and the Stephanides' confusion with the brain cutlets, he merely cites the narrator. Still, it is a nice holiday reading, an intellectual supplement to any *real* guide to Corfu you happen to take with you. And, while you are there, don't forget to get yourself Hilary Whitton Paipeti's guide, In the Footsteps of Lawrence Durrell and Gerald Durrell in Corfu (1935-39), which will help you connect the world of Durrells with the contemporary Corfu.	2001-08-24
US	51687115	RG18M0LCBBCNP	014028902X	888618380	My Family and Other Animals (Classic, Nature, Penguin)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	English boy's magic childhood on Corfu	My Family and Other Animals is a lovely collection of short stories - most of them dealing with Corcyrean fauna - set in the years before WWII, which the author, then a boy in his early teenage years, spent with his family on the Greek island of Corfu in the Ionian sea. Gerald Durrell is a hilarious storyteller, and page after page you will be entertained by the adventures of the young Gerry and his animal pets; his family, consisting of mother, brothers Larry and Leslie, and sister Margo; and their Greek friends: Dr. Theodore Stephanides, a doctor and polymath, their driver Spiro, and other mostly ephemeral characters.<br />Having said that, a word of reservation. My Family and Other Animals fits into the &quot;Young Adults&quot; genre, and its target audience are early-teens boys with an interest in nature. I emphasised boys, as there is no character in the book a young female reader could identify with - Gerald's sister Margo is shown mostly as vain, whinny, and not too clever. The characters are rather shallow and predictable, and with few exceptions, the stories in the book follow the same scenario: Gerry takes a walk in the countryside, finds some interesting animal - a turtle, a magpie, a snake, a scorpion - and decides to bring it home as a pet. Then, interrupted by other pressing matters, he temporarily leaves it in some random place in the house, where it is discovered by some other unsuspected family member. The panic which inevitably follows increases, until there finally comes Gerry - cool, calm and composed - and gets thing back in order. It also smells of the British imperial grandeur, maintaining the view that the world is inhabited by two races: the Brits and the native peasants. One can observe the tenacity of this view from works written much after the British Empire has become a historical memory, e.g. the late Douglas Adams' Last Chance to See (don't miss it if you liked this one!). <br />As an autobiography, My Family and Other Animals is not avery factual one, either. When faced with the dilemma of being factual or being entertaining, the author mercilessly butchered the facts. Thus, there is not even a slight hint of the fact that Lawrence was actually married to Nancy Myers during this time (he described his staying on Corfu in Prospero's Cell), and stayed with her in Koulouri, rather than with his mother, brothers and sister. Also, some of his stories from later years in Cressida are attributed to earlier years in Perama. However, if you are not exactly a Gerald Durrell biographer, these few details should not distract you from enjoying the book.<br />If you are visiting Corfu and plan to visit some of the locales in the book - the strawberry-pink villa, the daffodil-yellow villa or the snow-white villa - you will probably find helpful a tiny booklet In the Footsteps of Lawrence Durrell and Gerald Durrell in Corfu (1935-39) by Hilary Whitton Paipeti, available in any bookshop in Corfu Town.	2001-08-24
US	51687115	R123OUR9Z66A52	1858285305	438329290	The Rough Guide to Ionian Islands, 2nd Edition (Rough Guide Travel Guides)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A perfect counterpart to Lawrence Durrell's Prospero's Cell	John Gill is no Lawrence Durrell, but this is not necessarily bad. While it is highly unlikely that anybody will show any interest in this guide 60 years after its publication, I have to admit that it is quite useful now. Having just returned from a two-week holiday with friends on Corfu and Paxos, I can confirm that we put the guide to good use. It contains the usual blend of the descriptions of attractions, historical information, an occasional topical articles (like The Ionian School of Painting), and of course practical information.<br />As for practical information: the author himself admits that the situation with ferries changes from one year to another, so you have to check it yourself. Most ferry companies have their own Web sites nowadays, and you can also make reservations there. The yearly inflation rate in Greece is about 5%, which you have to take into account when comparing prices in the guide with the actual ones. As for kafenios and tavernas - use your own sense. Recommending or - rarely - advising against some taverna can be useful sometimes, but sticking strictly to your guidebook without looking around, you are no different than the rest of the tourist crowd, are you?<br />And one thing is clear: Mr. Gill doesn't like tourists, especially British tourists. Neither do I (I don't sport any preferential dislike for any nationality, though), nor probably do you, or you would be booking your package holiday in Kavos or Ipsos instead of reading this guide. The attitude of &quot;travellers&quot; towards &quot;tourists&quot; is snobbish in its own way, and if you are put off by it, you probably won't like this guide. If you do consider yourself a traveller rather than a tourist, though, then the Ionian islands might be a good destination for you.  I don't remember seeing any McDonald's joint there, so the charming idyllic picture might not be completely lost yet. And, speaking of idyllic pictures, Durrell's autobiographic Prospero's Cell, describing hisyears on Corfu before WWII, might be a perfect counterpart to this guide.	2001-08-08
US	51687115	R3UE1H9JAKNBZ7	0192801031	716007176	A Dictionary of Physics (Oxford Quick Reference)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Useful reference	It is tempting to compare this dictionary with the The Penguin Dictionary of Physics (ISBN 0-14-051459-7). They are both coming from an established British publishing house, both are paperbacks, both the same size, both updated in the same year (2000), and, curiously, they have both been prepared by Market House Books, Ltd. <br />Jumping to the conclusion that we are talking about variations of the same book would have been erroneous, though. A quick glance at the inside reveals the differences. Although the difference in the nominal number of terms defined is not that great (4500 for Penguin vs. 3500 - sometimes claimed even 4000 - for Oxford), the subjective feeling is that Penguin knows a lot more terms. Oxford, on the other hand, also contains short biographies of selected scientists, articles on each of the 109 chemical elements, some dozen two-page feature articles on selected topics like Big Bang, Free Electron Theory etc, and about just as many chronologies of selected areas of physics. Also, the definition of terms are on average longer in the Oxford dictionary - the definition of &quot;orbital&quot; is, for instance, two whole pages long, &quot;death of a star&quot; takes up one and a half page, etc. The illustrations in Penguin vastly outnumber those in Oxford, but I found those latter more informative. Both delve into technology as well, especially semiconductor technology, and, for my opinion, spend (or waste) too much space on computer science technology. Do we really need CPU, RAM, CD-ROM, DAT etc. defined in a Physics dictionary?<br />Which one is more useful? As a non-native speaker, it is likely that I use it differently than a native speaker would, so your mileage may vary. I've been educated in physics in my native language, and I think in it when I think physics. When I have to write in English, I occasionally encounter a term which I am not quite sure whether I know the correct English expression, although it is lurking somewhere in the back ofmy head. So it's a time to check it in the dictionary. It is likely that I will already find it in Penguin, and not find it in Oxford. In the latter case, I have to look for a broader term to find it. Searching through Oxford is therefore somewhat more time-consuming. However, the process is reversed when I don't already know in advance the term I want to check, but I do know the broader term, then Oxford comes in more handy. So, in a way, I find the two dictionaries complementary.	2001-06-20
US	51687115	R1RDUQSU9II5J3	0140514597	979884195	The Penguin Dictionary of Physics (Penguin Dictionary)	Books	4	35	36	N	N	Useful reference	It is tempting to compare this dictionary with the Dictionary of Physics (Oxford Paperback Reference, ISBN 0-19-280013-1). They are both coming from an established British publishing house, both are paperbacks, both the same size, both updated in the same year (2000), and, curiously, they have both been prepared by Market House Books, Ltd.<br />Jumping to the conclusion that we are talking about variations of the same book would have been erroneous, though. A quick glance at the inside reveals the differences. Although the difference in the nominal number of terms defined is not that great (4500 for Penguin vs. 3500 - sometimes claimed even 4000 - for Oxford), the subjective feeling is that Penguin knows a lot more terms. Oxford, on the other hand, also contains short biographies of selected scientists, articles on each of the 109 chemical elements, some dozen two-page feature articles on selected topics like Big Bang, Free Electron Theory etc, and about just as many chronologies of selected areas of physics. Also, the definition of terms are on average longer in the Oxford dictionary - the definition of &quot;orbital&quot; is, for instance, two whole pages long, &quot;death of a star&quot; takes up one and a half page, etc. The illustrations in Penguin vastly outnumber those in Oxford, but I found those latter more informative. Both delve into technology as well, especially semiconductor technology, and, for my opinion, spend (or waste) too much space on computer science technology. Do we really need CPU, RAM, CD-ROM, DAT etc. defined in a Physics dictionary?<br />Which one is more useful? As a non-native speaker, it is likely that I use it differently than a native speaker would, so your mileage may vary. I've been educated in physics in my native language, and I think in it when I think physics. When I have to write in English, I occasionally encounter a term which I am not quite sure whether I know the correct English expression, although it is lurking somewherein the back of my head. So it's a time to check it in the dictionary. It is likely that I will already find it in Penguin, and not find it in Oxford. In the latter case, I have to look for a broader term to find it. Searching through Oxford is therefore somewhat more time-consuming. However, the process is reversed when I don't already know in advance the term I want to check, but I do know the broader term, then Oxford comes in more handy. So, in a way, I find the two dictionaries complementary.	2001-06-20
US	51687115	R2RY08I5LQGHMZ	0395427398	203802585	Seizing the Enigma: The Race to Break the German U-Boats Codes, 1939-1943	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A history book that reads like a thriller	The year is early 1941, and the Battle of Britain is intensifying. The Kriegsmarine submarines, organized in groups - wolf packs - are trying to cut the life-line the British defense depends on - the convoys which supply Britain with food, military supplies and raw materials. And they are pretty much successful in it, sinking more ships each month than Britain and United States can build. Meanwhile, a group of mathematicians, linguists and other odd characters located a top-secret base in Bletchley Park, Buckinghamshire, is trying in frenzy to decode the German naval code, Enigma...<br />David Kahn has produced a well researched and clearly written book on this segment of naval history, which has long remained classified. The story of Enigma is traced from the Arthur Scherbius's design, through the first successful decoding made by Marian Rejewski's group in Poland, and finally to Alan Turing and the Hut 8 staff in Bletchley Park. We learn that while direct attack on the cipher was mindbogglingly impossible, the chances for decoding being 150 million million million to one, the Brits had to find bypasses, raiding German boats for the on-board code books, employing &quot;kisses&quot; (identical messages transmitted in two different cryptosystems), and finally mechanising the solution finding with the &quot;bombes&quot;.<br />The emphasis of the book is more on the naval war than on the cryptology. Although the operation of Enigma machine is described to some extent, you will not be able to fully understand its workings from it alone. Singh's Code Book, for instance, has a much better introduction to it. It also limits its scope quite narrowly, not spending one single word on the fact that while Hut 8 was busy solving naval Enigma, some hundred yards away the world's first electronic computer - Colossus - was built in attempt to solve the German Lorenz cipher.<br />The book comes with an exhaustive list of notes, an excellent bibliography and a useful index. There arealso over thirty b/w documentary photographs.	2001-05-21
US	51687115	R36KOYICU23C0L	0721671438	681681629	Diagnostic Ultrasound: Principles and Instruments	Books	4	30	33	N	N	An introductory textbook on medical ultrasound	I actually came across Professor Kremkau's textbook accidentally, when I was looking for some not too dated text on the physics of medical ultrasound. Although it was obviously aimed at a practicing ultrasonographer preparing for some ARDMS or ARRT exam rather than a physicist trying to brush up his knowledge of medical ultrasound, it proved to be a valuable source of relatively recent information on the current state of the area.<br />The textbook starts with an overview of the basic physics of waves and ultrasound, proceeds to the transducers and beam shape, and continues to the computer technology used for imaging. Next comes a chapter on the Doppler effect, being followed by a discussion on spectral analysis. A synthesis of these two techniques is the color Doppler imaging, and an entire chapter is devoted on the recent techniques like Color Doppler and Color Power Doppler. The textbook is concluded by a chapter discussing the artifacts, and finally a chapter on performance and safety.<br />The style is highly readable, although the text is somewhat repetitive. One striking observation - for a physicist at least - is that professor Kremkau denies the efforts spent in inventing a readable representation of mathematical relations over the past 500 years or so, and has invented his own system. So instead of the usual &quot;wavelength equals propagation speed divided by frequency&quot; written in mathematical symbols, we see frames like &quot;frequency UP, wavelength DOWN&quot; throughout the book. Strange, and probably not particularly efficient.<br />Each chapter is accompanied by a list of over 100 questions, and the answers are provided at the end of the book after the summary chapter. Each chapter also contains a small handy glossary. The book is lavishly illustrated and has a useful index, while the list of references is not particularly impressive.	2001-04-18
US	51687115	R2SZFMRL9RR4AI	072164869X	180336209	Doppler Ultrasound: Principles and Instruments	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Textbook on Doppler effect for practicing ultrasonographers	For a number of years, Professor Kremkau has been publishing in parallel two textbooks on medical ultrasonography: Diagnostic Ultrasound and Doppler Ultrasound. He even spends the a great deal of the preface explaining why the two textbooks are complementary. Having now in my hands the most recent editions of both books, I can see that the dualism has ended, as the smaller one has been more or less absorbed in the latest (1998) edition of Diagnostic Ultrasound, and I wouldn't be surprised if the Doppler Ultrasound will not be reprinted.<br />The textbook starts with an overview of the basic physical properties of waves and ultrasound in particular. It's being followed by a short chapter on hemodynamics. We then arrive at the Doppler effect, which is given a chapter on itself. It is being followed on the spectral analysis, and the two techniques are woven together in the chapter on the use of Doppler effect in ultrasonic diagnostic (i.e. Color Doppler). The textbook is concluded with a chapter on artifacts, performance and safety.<br />Each chapter is concluded with a review, a glossary of used terms and a list of exercises (the answers are provided at the end of the book). The index is fairly useful, while the list of references isn't particularly impressive.	2001-04-18
US	51687115	R1POJM8L7MJI2D	0738203335	128366571	Rebel Code: Linux And The Open Source Revolution	Books	4	28	31	N	N	The greatest history of Linux that (n)ever was	As someone who has been tracking the progress of Linux since 1992, and has been using it continuously since 1994, I have been looking for some years now - at least since 1998, when Linux hit the mainstream news - who is going be the first to come up with a history of Linux; something among similar lines as Gleick did for chaos theory. Now we have the winner: Glyn Moody, a British IT journalist.<br />Not always organized in a chronological order, Rebel Code follows the progress of Linux and several other open-source projects (XFree86, Sendmail, Perl, Apache, Samba...) from the grandfather of Linux, Unix, in late sixties; then we follow the stories of Andrew Tannenbaum's Minix system and Richard Stallman's project GNU through the eighties, until we finally arrive to the beginnings of Linux in 1991. From then on, we follow it rise and blossom, with its added functionalities, with the first contributors to the kernel starting to appear, and then the first Linux distributions.<br />If the first half of the book deals mostly with technical topics, the second half - following the decision of Netscape Corporation to open the source code of their Web browser - is mostly concerned with the socio-economical issues of the open source model, the differences between it and the idea of free software; the huge initial success of the IPOs of open-source companies (Moody is much less vocal about the fact that they lost most of their values a year later), possible alternative uses of Linux (handheld and internet appliances) and musings on the possible future of the free/open source movement.<br />Speaking of the latter, I miss a more thorough and independent analysis on whether the author sees the free/open source development model as a sustainable strategy or just a part of the dotcom craze. In that aspect, Rebel Code doesn't bring much one would not already know from the writing of Larry McVoy and Eric Raymond. I may not be alone here. Anybody who has already been tracking the progess of Linux - and I believe the majority of readership ought to be sought in this audience - will probably find some 80% of the book already familiar. The rest present the interviews the author conducted with some principal contributors throughout the 2000, and contained many new and interesting facts to me. The whole is packaged in a fairly pleasant and readable form.<br />There is something about Moody that makes me uneasy, though. I cannot quite decide whether it is his intellectual criticism, or is he simply looking for some cheap drama. His best known writing on Linux before this book was his 1997 HotWired article titled &quot;The Greatest OS That (N)ever Was&quot; where he depicts his worrisome views about the future of Linux in dramatic tones (&quot;...But Linux also sits at a critical juncture...&quot;). In Rebel Code, he seems to be especially proud of his description of the schism that was threatening in Linux development in 1998, which &quot;... nobody outside the Linux world noticed.&quot;<br />Finally, there is no apologize for the complete omission of references. Linux is a child of Internet, its development was carried out in the open, and so it is perhaps the best documented OS ever. This book had a wonderful chance to become the authoritative list of resources concerning the Linux history, and flunked it. On the positive side, Rebel Code does have a decent index.	2001-02-21
US	51687115	R14SFWSFA3PZP8	0684832674	794734184	Where Wizards Stay Up Late: The Origins Of The Internet	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Internet is older than you thought	This is an excellent book for all those who would guess that Bolt, Beranek and Newman is a law firm. It may sound like one, but it isn't. BBN - now a subsidiary of GTE/Verizon - is a company which is most intimately tied to the birth of what is nowadays known as the internet. And if the BBN's marketing guys would have been half as good as their engineers, we would probably hear a lot more about BBN today and less about, say, Cisco.<br />In a clear and highly readable style, Hafner and Lyon have covered the history of the packet switching networks with encyclopedic breadth. You'll learn both about the early theoretical fathers of packet switching, like Paul Baran and Donald Davies; you have the people in the DoD's Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) like Joseph Licklider, Bob Taylor or Larry Roberts, who not only had a grand view of computer networking or obtained the necessary governmental funding, but were also able to specify their wishes precisely enough that the engineers were able to build the network based on their plans. And finally, there is Frank Heart's team at BBN, guys who actually built the darn thing.<br />The subtitle - The origins of the internet - is well chosen. Most of the book focuses on the years 1968-1972, from Roberts' draft proposal, to the 1972 international conference on computer communication. Other development, either earlier or later, is covered only fragmentary. There are other interesting stories, like the origins of USENET, internet news exchange service, but they are not the scope of this book.<br />The book leaves a pleasant impression that the authors actually understand the necessary technical background of the topic they are writing about. Some diagrams might help further, but I am sure that numerous metaphors used in the book will also alone help the casual reader to understand the idea of packet switching. Chapter notes and bibliography section deserve special praise, and the subject index comes in handy, too. Overall, a very satisfying book.	2001-01-20
US	51687115	R3FA0HCS1ICXN5	0811825558	979162178	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook	Books	4	9	9	N	N	All true, but nevertheless grotesque	Years ago, a friend of mine was terribly amused when he read the section on bear encounters in his Alaska backpacking book. It went something like &quot;If the attack is unavoidable, determine the type of bear attacking you. If it is a grizzly, lay down flat and pretend you are dead. If it is a black bear, raise your arms above your head and prepare to fight back!&quot;<br />This little handbook is packed with similar advices, usually accompanied with neat illustrations. The fun part of the book is that all of the advices are meant dead serious, and are all taken from serious handbooks - the extensive bibliography is also provided. However, the whole collection of extremal situations - e.g. how to jump into a dumpster from a skyscraper, how to wrestle an alligator etc. - makes the compendium grotesque, and classifies it as humor.<br />Judging from the Amazon sales rank, people seem to have reached a consensus that this book is a perfect holiday gift, and I can only agree with it. I mean, you know at least someone with some sense of humor, right? And oh, by the way - regarding bear attacks, this Handbook asserts the &quot;lay down&quot; doctrine regardless of the bear species.	2000-12-21
US	51687115	R5M5SGTCYPUKI	0465016189	767726758	The Math Gene: How Mathematical Thinking Evolved and Why Numbers Are Like Gossip	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Gossip. Is this really it?	This is a book from a well-known and respected popular science writer and mathematician, Professor Keith Devlin, on a very intriguing question: how and why did people acquire the skill of doing mathematics. Unfortunately, many readers will probably still be looking for more after finishing this one.<br />Devlin starts with our sense for numbers. Not all numbers are the same: we instantly recognize one or two objects; beyond that number, we have to count them. But counting itself is not yet mathematics. So what is mathematics? Devlin fancies the answer that it is a science of patterns, and spends a whole chapter on what he really means by the extended concept of pattern. In order to describe abstract patterns, mathematics has developed a specialized language. So is it possible to learn anything about mathematics from what the linguists have already learned about the generalized structural grammar, underlying every known language? How did the full language - with grammar - evolve at all from the &quot;momma hungry&quot; protolanguage? And why?<br />The above arguments pose a grandiose ouverture for Devlin's thesis, which we are finally ready for in the second-but-last chapter: in order to be able to plan and predict, human ancestors have some 300.000 years ago developed what Devlin calls &quot;off-line&quot; thinking. With off-line thinking came grammar and language. Language is, and always was, used predominantly to build the &quot;team spirit&quot; among humans, or, with other words, for gossip. Mathematicians can avoid one unnecessary level of abstractions if they visualize the entities they are working with. So for them, doing mathematics is like gossiping. Well, sort of.<br />And that is it. The book is actually quite a pleasant read, with lots of interesting stuff. On the other hands, Devlin drags us on and around general linguistics and the evolution of speech and God knows what else before getting to the promised topic. The final thesis comes then rather unculminating. On the plus side, Devlin is fair at citing books and articles he had learned from. I wish I could say the same about some other popular science authors.	2000-12-20
US	51687115	R2DQ5Q6GYE3UOB	0671872346	970132728	COMPLEXITY: THE EMERGING SCIENCE AT THE EDGE OF ORDER AND CHAOS	Books	4	16	17	N	N	The Making of the Santa Fe Institute	I bought this book back in 1994, when it was released as a paperback in the UK. I liked it tremendously, and although I let a dozen friends or so borrow it from me to read, I was keeping its track very meticulously in order to get it back every time. Complexity is one of those books that easily gets lost if you are not careful, you know.<br />In short, the book is a chronicle of at the time seemingly unrelated ideas that finally led to forming of the Santa Fe Institute in 1984, and the people who created them: the economist Brian Arthur and his lock-in theory of &quot;increasing returns&quot; (better known to engineers as &quot;positive feedback&quot;); Stuart Kaufmann and his &quot;autocatalytic&quot; models for evolving biological systems; John Holland and his genetic algorithms and genetic programming; Christopher Langton and his &quot;artificial life&quot;; Doyne Farmer with all his experience with chaos theory; and of course the &quot;founding fathers&quot; of the Santa Fe Institute: George Cowan, Kenneth Arrow, and two Nobel-prize winners, Murray Gell-Mann and Philip Anderson.<br />With a PhD in Physics, MA in Journalism and over ten years of service as a senior science writer for one of the world's most prestigious science journals - Science - M. Mitchell Waldrop seems like a role-model science writer. Complexity is his second book, being predecessed by Man Made Minds, a survey of artificial intelligence. This book, however, bears much greater resemblance in style with James Gleick's bestseller Chaos than with his own previous work.<br />Some &quot;historical distance&quot; allows us also a somewhat more critical view on the complexity theory itself. Contrary to the popular expectations of the time, complexity was since forced to follow the same path that chaos, fractals or catastrophe theory - to name a few - traveled before it, and admit that is not The Great Universal Theory of Everything. On the other hand, while the hype is gone, we have to admit that complexity - or &quot;nonlinear science&quot;, if you want - is still very actively worked on.<br />So is this book for you? Yes, if you want vivid explanation of one of the most important ideas that shaped the end of the 20th century, and colorful portraits of the people behind it. If nothing else, it will wet your mouth. If Complexity will succeed in winning your interest, you may want to proceed with other popular reading on this topic - almost everyone of the people mentioned before has himself published at least one book. For learning more hard science, however, you should reach for other science monographs and papers.	2000-12-12
US	51687115	RQDP145HSG9N9	0140261494	580276924	The Penguin Book of Curious and Interesting Numbers: Revised Edition (Penguin Press Science)	Books	4	44	46	N	N	No recreational mathematician should be without it	In the foreword to G.H. Hardy's book A Mathematician's Apology, C.P. Snow tells an anecdote about Hardy and his collaborator Srinavasa Ramanujan. Hardy, perhaps the greatest number theorist of 20th century, took a taxi from London to the hospital at Putney where Ramanujan was dying of tuberculosis, Hardy noticed its number, 1729. Always inept about introducing a conversation, he entered the room where Ramanujan was lying in bed and, with scarcely a hello, blurted out his opinion about the taxi-cab number. It was, he declared, &quot;rather a dull number,&quot; adding that he hoped that wasn't a bad omen. &quot;No, Hardy!  No, Hardy,&quot; said Ramanujan, &quot;it is a very interesting number. It is the smallest number expressible as the sum of two cubes in two different ways.&quot;<br />Usually it takes a great deal of insight as well as considerable mathematical training to discover a yet unknown properties of some number. Only recognizing the beauty of a number pattern is much easier, though, especially with a friendly book like this one on hand. Wells, a long-time mathematics popularizer, has collected over 1000 numbers he considers interesting. Each of them is given a short explanation, often accompanied with a bibliographic reference. Celebrities among the numbers, like i, e or Pi, are given a more comprehensive treatment. Included are also several sequences, like Fibonacci's, Mersenne's, Fermat's, Carmichael's or Kaprekar's, each accompanied with its explanation. So are cyclic, amicable, untouchable or lucky numbers, and many more sequences you probably didn't know about.<br />While Wells' dictionary certainly gives the impression of a well-researched work, the list of numbers is by no means exhaustive. Anyone familiar with chaos theory will notice the absence of Feigenbaum constant; prime hunters would probably be interested in discussion on Woodall primes, Sophie-Germain primes, or Proth primes. But they are better off with Paulo Ribenboim's book on primes, anyway, while Wells' book, with its easily understandable explanations and accessible price is probably more suited for the &quot;recreational mathematics&quot; audience.	2000-12-10
US	51687115	R29IQEENZRFNIA	0517585979	399727616	The Deeper Meaning of Liff: A Dictionary of Things There Aren't Any Words for Yet- But There Ought to Be	Books	4	37	39	N	N	Save the language - recycle place names!	The idea behind The Meaning of Liff, first published in 1983, as well as The Deeper Meaning of Liff, which followed seven years later, is actually quite simple. As the authors put it: there are hundreds of common experiences, feelings, situations and even objects which we all know and recognize, but for which no word exists. On the other hand, the world is littered with thousands of spare words doing nothing but loafing about on signposts pointing at places.<br />Douglas Adams - the one of the Hitch-Hikers Guide to the Galaxy fame - and John Lloyd have done their best trying to pair the two. Just for the gusto, here's an example of dictionary entry: Wyoming (ptcpl.vb.) Moving in hurried desperation from one cubicle to another in a public lavatory trying to find one which has a lock on the door, a seat on the bowl and no brown streaks on the seat.<br />Although The Deeper Meaning of Liff is significantly expanded in size over the original, I guess I would choose the latter. While The Meaning of Liff mostly covers place names from the Britain, the expansions seem to be predominantly reaching abroad, resulting in somewhat diluted compendium. After all, there is some logic that English place names are fitting best in an English dictionary, isn't it?	2000-12-06
US	51687115	RGPBCQEOJVOUQ	0262680920	353778639	The New Hacker's Dictionary - 3rd Edition	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Recursion (n.). See recursion.	Perhaps we should start by telling what this dictionary isn't. First, it has nothing to do with breaking into computer systems and similar illegal activities which any layman would usually associate with hackers. It teaches you that hacking is not the correct name for breaking into computers, though. Second, it is not a dictionary of IT terminology. You can probably do your IT job quite well without knowing what a foobar is. And third, it is not a dictionary of the current cyber slang. The main reason for this is probably the fact that Eric Raymond is well beyond his teenage years.<br />Altogether, I don't even think The New Hacker's Dictionary fits the category of a reference work. Instead I'd dare to call it literature in the form of a dictionary, much like the classical Devil's Dictionary by Ambrose Bierce, or The Meaning of Liff by Douglas Adams. Sure, many entries can be used as reference, although a lot of them actually refer to historic software and hardware items like ITS, PDP-10 or LISP machines. The New Hacker's Dictionary not the dry, encyclopedic style of dictionary - entries are written in an opinionated, juicy style. The humorous side of the dictionary - a work of a witty, creative hacker mind picking names for things - certainly vastly outweighs its practical side.<br />So is this book for you? Yes, if the legendary MIT AI lab hacker scene fascinates you. Although LISP machines are gone, it's perhaps still affecting your computing environment more than you think. For example: Linux, the free Unix clone, is built on top of the GNU project, which descends directly from the MIT AI lab hacker scene. And finally, is there any point in buying a printed book, if the complete text is available on Raymond's web site so you can read it on-line?  I'd say it is. You see, it's not particularly convenient to take your computer into the bath tub.	2000-10-19
US	51687115	RG866QXHAUUTH	0750304707	799339523	Physically Speaking: A Dictionary of Quotations on Physics and Astronomy	Books	3	4	4	N	N	The best of its kind. Also the only one.	&quot;If I have seen further it is by standing on ye shoulders of Giants. God does not play dice. All science is either physics or stamp collecting.&quot; And so on. If you are a physicist, you can probably cite from the top of your head a dozen more witty quotations attributed to some celebrity physicist. Albert Einstein, Niels Bohr, Richard Feynman and Stephen Hawking, for instance, seem to have been especially prolific in this area. But while there seems to be no shortage of resources scattered in books, journals and across the Internet, there is a surprising shortage of books containing collected quotations on physics. I might have missed some, but this is exactly the only one I know. There exist, however, more general dictionaries of scientific quotations like Mackay's.<br />Around 1800 quotations (estimated) - contributed not only by physicists, but also by several poets - are sorted by subject (black holes, chaos, experiment, neutrino, quantum theory etc.). Apart from this, two indices are provided: a subject by author index and an author by subject index. Apart from few quotations listed as &quot;Unknown&quot;, they are usually provided with the source, including page number, and a generous list of over 800 references is included.<br />Strangely enough - or perhaps not for a pioneering work, as the compilers claim it to be - you will probably easily find several well-known quotations missing in the book. From the three I have started with, Newton's and Einstein's quotations are missing, and Rutherford's is misquoted. This, of course, cannot serve to diminish the meticulous work Mr. and Mrs. Gaither - none of them a physicist - had accomplished. I am wondering though if consulting some physicist might improve the end result. They are somewhat suspiciously missing in the acknowledgment.	2000-10-11
US	51687115	R1Q5SGMKO0B7T8	0060028459	259976	October the First is Too Late	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Hurry up, the gap is closing!	That's right: the very same British astronomer - a retired Plumian Professor of Astronomy at Cambridge University, the founder of the Institute of Astronomy at Cambridge and currently a Honorary Fellow of both Emmanuel College and St. John's College in Cambridge and an Honorary Professor at Cardiff University of Wales - who occasionally challenges the audience of astronomers with daring theories, also writes fiction.<br />The novel, written in 1966, was set into present time, i.e. 1966. Two colleagues from their common Cambridge times, a composer and a acclaimed particle physicist, meet at Heathrow airport. In a cheerful reunion mood they decide to make one of their student plans come true, and head for a hike in the Scottish Highlands. A pleasant hiking holiday is abruptly interrupted when the physicist learns he has to make an urgent trip to California, since the experiments show an unexpected modulation in the Sun radiation. The composer is invited along, and from there the two characters start an unusual and fantastic journey across the world and - simultaneously - through the time, as the parallel universes suddenly seem to be coexisting side by side, with Britain being in 1966, Western Europe in 1917, North America in mid-eighteenth century, and Greece in the fifth century B.C. But the gap in the time-space is closing... you guessed when.	2000-10-01
US	51687115	R3F12PBNJ234	0385495315	440237161	The Code Book: The Evolution of Secrecy from Mary, Queen of Scots to Quantum Cryptography	Books	5	18	20	N	N	An excellent introduction to the topic	The Code Book, Simon Singh's introduction to the race between cryptologists and cryptanalists, code-makers and code-breakers, is probably one of the most pleasant popular science reads of the year.<br />The first chapter starts with the description of the monoalphabetic substitution ciphers, its failure and the consequence of the latter, the execution of Mary Queen of Scots. From then we proceed to polyalphabetic ciphers, the Vigenere Cipher and the Babbage's method of breaking it; as an added bonus Singh has thrown in the three Beale papers, allegedly leading to over a ton of gold buried in the hills of Virginia. The third chapter describes the path Germans made between the world wars, from the Zimmerman note disaster to the construction of Enigma. Closely related to it is the next chapter, a story about the Poles and the Brits cracking Enigma.<br />The fifth chapter is a step aside: on deciphering texts that are not purposely encrypted, but simply written in extinct languages and scripts, like Egyptian hieroglyphics or Minoan Linear B script. From then on, we are probably already on the more familiar territory; the discovery and re-discovery of public key cryptography, and its application in Phil Zimmerman's PGP. The last chapter tries to provide a peek into the future: quantum computers that can break currently uncrackable codes in linear time, and quantum encryption, which cannot be broken without violating the laws of physics.<br />Apart from the Beale treasure papers, Singh added another gem for aspiring cryptanalists: they can test what they have learned with ten ciphertexts in the appendix, and the author promised to pay 10.000 GBP to the first one who solves all of them. And Singh proved to be a good teacher: to date, nine stages out of ten are solved already (the last one involves a massive amount of CPU time).<br />True, David Kahn's Codebreakers contains a more exhaustive treatment of the historic development of cryptography, and Bruce Schneier's AppliedCryptography will provide you with a knowledge needed by a working specialist. However, if you share just a casual interest in the area, this is the book for you. It's much more than just stories about people involved in the cryptography and other related trivia - you will be surprised that Singh's lucid explanations will actually make you understand how the algorithms work.	2000-09-28
US	51687115	R3KVV64BVH2DPQ	0897919602	871602704	Wizards and Their Wonders: Portraits in Computing	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A gallery of portraits	This &quot;Who is Who in Computer Industry&quot; is a perfect coffee-table  book for computer enthusiasts: large format, lavishly illustrated and right  on the topic. Almost 200 people are presented, each with a full-page colour  photograph and some 100-words abstract.<br />The wizards are divided into five  categories: the Forerunners, the Inventors, the Enterpreneurs, the  Communicators and the Venture Capitalists. As Dan Bricklin (featured on  page 56 in the book) already observed, its wide scope is the strength of  this book. Myself, however, I would gladly sacrifice the latter three  categories - and perhaps also the first, since there seems to be no  shortage of literature on the beginnings of computing - for a decent  article on each of the inventors. Something along similar lines was  attempted by Shasha and Lazere, but I am not entirely satisfied with their  work either.<br />A plus side of the book is its list of sources on the  presented personae, many of them from the World Wide Web. And,  surprisingly, many of them still working...	2000-09-14
US	51687115	R3KF5OXMYWKZW1	0345378482	855829988	The Andromeda Strain	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Where were you on February 8, 1967?	The back cover starts: &quot;Five prominent biophysicists give the US  government an urgent warning: sterilisation procedures for returning space  probes may be inadequate to guarantee uncontaminated re-entry to the  atmosphere.&quot; Biophysicists, right? One can hardly find a more  appropriate reading to read on the train, when I was travelling to the 3rd  European biophysics congress in Munich earlier this month.<br />This novel  will teach you that the life on earth was in early February 1967 close to  disaster comparable to the impact of Chixculub meteorite 65 million years  ago. An US space probe, Scoop VII, brought with it a highly virulent and  pathogenous alien life form from the orbit, before it crashed into the  Arizona desert. After wreaking havoc in a small Arizona town, the space  probe is transferred into the ultra-secret high-security US government lab  in Nevada, built  just a couple of months before to prevent dispersion of  toxic extraterrestrial agents. Here, a group of five scientists led by a  Nobel prize winner, bacteriologist Jeremy Stone, starts a race with time.  What exactly is this alien life form? By which mechanism does it affect  human body? Under what conditions does it multiply? How can we stop it  before it wipes away the human population?<br />The novel contains quite a bit  of technical details - it's science fiction after all, right? - where  Crichton will pause and explain with a patience and persistence of a  good-humoured teacher. So in case you didn't know what proteins are and  what they are made from; or how electron microscope operates; or what can  cause blood acidity in a patient - you will learn it all here.<br />It would  be interesting to know how many scientists today were influenced by this  novel to pursue a career in science. Because, after all, what Crichton  writes is mostly how a scientific experiment is conducted. OK, the method  in biosciences have advanced somewhat from the late sixties, but the spirit  is still here. So while you are unlikely to encounter the situation when  you have a few hours to save the humankind, scientific research never loses  its share of excitement, either.	2000-09-14
US	51687115	R384Q0ZLD355YL	3822865192	925982970	Penguin (Photobook)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Brilliant!	Dutch-born nature photographer Frans Lanting should be a familiar name to  the readers of National Geographic, Audubon, LIFE or several other  prestigious high-circulation magazines. With a Master's degree in  Environmental Economics, he devoted himself full-time to photography in  1980. Since then, he won numerous awards, including the Sierra Club's 1997  Ansel Adams Award, and was named the Photographer of the Year 1991 by BBC.  Lanting now lives near Santa Cruz, California.<br />This monograph, which is  actually his eight book, was conceived during his three visits to the  Antarctic waters. The first of them brought him amidst the rockhoppers,  gentoos and Magellanic penguins on the Falkland Islands. The second one was  a two-month cruise around South Georgia, South Orkney and South Sandwich  islands, where he observed the king, Adelie and chinstrap penguins. And  finally, as a crown, he spent several weeks among the emperor penguins on  the Weddell Sea, Antarctica. In total, there are over 100 photographs.  Lanting's photography is always brilliant. True, penguins are always cute,  but as other birds, they have no facial expression. It is therefore amazing  how he managed to capture the spirit of the moment of a bird's life.<br />The  book will surely attract any nature lover, ornithologist or not, and  amateur nature photographer. For these latter, Lanting added some short  notes on photographing penguins. And finally, if you are interested, you  can learn more about Lanting on his internet site, triple W dot lanting dot  com.	2000-09-05
US	51687115	R24CLWQA07ZKFO	0679726012	246141487	Innumeracy: Mathematical Illiteracy and Its Consequences (Vintage)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Combinatorics, probability and statistics made fun	&quot;A million dollars, a billion, a trillion, whatever. It doesn't matter as long as we do something about the problem.&quot; Does it matter,  or does it not? Perhaps you can more easily visualize what jumping by six  orders of magnitude means if you divide it by 10^6: &quot;One dollar, a  thousand dollars, a million...&quot;<br /><br />Or perhaps consider this: Abraham  Lincoln was elected to Congress in 1846 and was elected President in 1860.  John F. Kennedy was elected to Congress in 1946, and was elected President  in 1960. Lincoln's secretary was named Kennedy. Kennedy's secretary was  named Lincoln. Andrew Johnson, who succeeded Lincoln, was born in 1808.  Lyndon Johnson, who succeeded Kennedy, was born in 1908. John Wilkes Booth,  who assassinated Lincoln was born in 1839. Lee Harvey Oswald, who  assassinated Kennedy was born in 1939. There is some mysterious harmony  ruling the world, isn't it?<br /><br />Most likely not. Politicians' careers do  follow certain patterns - people are very rarely indeed elected presidents  at 19, then elected to congress at 86. Furthermore, there are very few  records of assassins in the age group over 65, for instance. You also have  to take into account that, taking into account US constitution, there is  nil probability that Kennedy would have been elected president in 1961, or  1958. And Lincoln isn't all that uncommon as the last name, is it? And  finally, we have been rather selective which facts we have included:  Abraham Lincoln was born in 1809 and died in 1965, while John F. Kennedy  was born in 1917 and died in 1963, for instance, but along with all other  facts this simply didn't fit the intended story, so it was  omitted.<br /><br />Throughout the book, Paulos tries to demystify such  mysterious occurances by providing more or less elaborated examples, where  he applies combinatorics, probability and statistics. All relatively simple  concepts, but people tend to forget about them once they leave high school.Is it true that if the flipped coin has come up heads for fifteen  consecutive rows, it is much more likely to come up tails on its next flip?  And what about the statistics claiming that one out in eleven women will  develop breast cancer, on the average?<br /><br />Some passages - whining about  the incompetent elementary school math teachers etc. - are too whinny for  their own good, but otherwise this short booklet is a fun read. But then  again, with a degree in physics, I probably already fall among the  numerate. What I was very much missing, though, is a list of references  from which professor Paulos has taken his examples from.	2000-08-18
US	51687115	R19NA7Y5JJ6EJQ	1555581234	244166838	The UNIX Philosophy	Books	2	19	33	N	N	Yada yada yada	I suppose this is the kind of book that should be adored by managers. First, it has a stylish cover. Second, it doesn't take much of your time. You should be over with it in about one hour - not only it's thin, it is  also typeset in a size larger than the usual book letter size. And third,  it comes with ready-made slogans like &quot;Small is beautiful&quot;,  &quot;Make each program do one thing well&quot; etc, that can come handy at  staff meetings.<br /><br />Even at its rather modest size, this book is stretched  to the limits. There is about enough material in it to make a decent  article in UnixWorld or some similar magazine, perhaps even two; it could  also be made a chapter in some compendium. But that doesn't nearly make it  enough for a standalone book.<br /><br />True, Gancarz writes well, and  anecdotical stories in this  book make a pleasant bathtub reading. To  convince you that Unix indeed is a great design, however, get something  substantial instead. If you are a programmer and seeing some actual code  doesn't scare you off, I would recommend The Unix Programming Environment  by Kernighan and Pike. Though dated, in my opinion it still makes a better  introduction to the Unix design philosophy. If you are not that much  interested in Unix, you might nevertheless want to consider saving twenty  bucks and subscribing to comp.unix.advocacy Usenet group instead.	2000-07-20
US	51687115	R3K5UR64S38DDG	013937681X	509213781	The Unix Programming Environment (Prentice-Hall Software Series)	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Oldies but goldies	Merely half an inch thick, and employing the same cover design - or lack of it - as the C Programming Language, this is probably the least pretentious looking book on my bookshelf. However, the look is misleading -  there are very few books, regardless of length, that aim to teach you as  much as this one, and even fewer than succeed in it.<br /><br />Unix programming  environment might sound a rather ambitious title nowadays, when a tutorial  on each specialized tool can easily exceed 400 pages. However, this one  actually delivers everything that it promises. Kernighan and Pike start  with the basic description of Unix file system and the basic set of  commands, continue with the command shell, redirection and piping. Next  come the filters: regular expressions, grep, sort, sed and awk. At that  point, the reader is ready for the full-fledged treatment of the command  shell programming. Next come standard I/O and Unix system calls, followed  by the program development tools: make, lex and yacc. The course is  concluded with a chapter on document formatting with troff.<br /><br />The  chapters on I/O and system calls imply familiarity with the C programming  language. The already mentioned tutorial on C by Kernighan and Ritchie,  written in much the same style and spirit, can serve as the introduction to  it. Also, while the book keeps up with its age remarkably well, there are  some points where the described Unix system differs from the modern POSIX  systems (most user commands are however backward compatible and still  accept the old syntax). The required changes are really minor, but can  nevertheles annoy an innocent reader.<br /><br />The book belongs to nowadays  rare breed of books on computers written for engineers and CS students  rather than for dummies and idiots. Although primarily written for  individual study, it can be used for one-semester course on Unix (like in C  Programming Language, the exercises are lacking solutions, though). I would  love to see it made-up with POSIX syntax and generally reflecting the  changes made to Unix during the past 15 years.	2000-07-20
US	51687115	R10SC4GBZH3PQT	0738201669	526351529	The Meaning Of It All: Thoughts Of A Citizen-scientist (Helix Books)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Feynman on life, the universe, and everything	This short booklet is actually a typescript of a series of three John Danz lectures which professor Feynman delivered in April 1963 at the University of Washington. They show yet another of his many facets -- aside from the  ingenious scientist, the wonderful science teacher and the hilarious  storyteller -- one of an intellectual thinking of the interaction between  the science and the society.<br /><br />The thread that can be followed  throughout the series of lectures is the value of scepticism. Scepticism  and doubt kept science sane for centuries. After describing what he  considers the essence of science, Feynman tries to answer several questions  arising at the boundary between science and the society. Is there a  conflict between science and religion? Can science be applied to moral and  ethical questions? How can the inspirational value of religion be preserved  when the belief in God is uncertain? In the last lecture, Feynman  elaborates some abuses of statistics he encountered, like mixing up the  probability with the possibility, a posteriori statistical reasoning etc.  <br /><br />The book will probably first and foremost attract Feynman devotees,  who already have all the other books he has written and cannot miss one.  The book also reflects some of the atmosphere of the cold war 60's, so it  might be of some interest for those who either lived in that era or have  some special historic interest in it. But aside from this, no collection of  Feynman's papers published after his death has ever reached the mastership  of books he actively prepared.	2000-07-16
US	51687115	RXUFR72XEKSJP	0062731009	441411373	The Cartoon Guide to Physics (Cartoon Guide Series)	Books	4	91	100	N	N	Not as good as The Cartoon History of the Universe	I was delighted when some time ago I received two volumes of Larry Gonick's Cartoon History of the Universe as a present from a friend. It is absolutely hilarious! Being a physicist, I considered it a must to add  Cartoon Guide to Physics to my Larry Gonick collection.<br /><br />However, I was  disappointed. The guide indeed tries to cover a significant amount of the  usual high-school physics course - mechanics, electricity and magnetism  (missing are thermodynamics and optics) - but it is not really as  charmingly funny as the Cartoon History of the Universe. As a physicist, I  can assure you that the problem does not lie in the simple fact that the  history is more interesting topic than physics - physics is plenty  interesting, thank you! But the desired blend between the textbook and the  cartoon resulted in something that is not educational enough to actually  learn something from it and too boring to make a good cartoon.<br /><br />Trying  to find some bright spot, I am happy to report I have not discovered any  major flops in the science part of the book. Also, I believe the book  actually becomes somewhat more interesting toward the end. But then again,  if I would have to choose between, say, the chapter on relativity and  Joseph Schwartz's Einstein for Beginners, I would probably opt for the  latter.	2000-06-28
US	51687115	R3FNTX1G67QWEH	156592469X	726193494	Running Linux	Books	4	20	20	N	N	A classic	With its first edition dating back to early 1995, Matt Welsh's book is widely regarded as classic, to the extent this term can be applied to Linux. Mr. Welsh, now continuing his PhD studies at UC Berkeley, is a  renowned Linux expert, and was actively involved in Linux development since  1992. In particular, he is known in the Linux community for starting the  Linux Documentation Project, for contributing to it with Linux Installation  and Getting Started (LIGS) Guide (available freely from the Internet) and,  lately, for being the founding editor of the Linux Magazine.<br /><br />Running  Linux grew out of LIGS as its expanded and professionally edited version.  This has its pluses and minuses. When it came out, there were hardly any  other books on Linux available, so it tried to teach the reader everything,  from Linux installation to Unix administration, from the command shell  basics to compiling the kernel, and from using the C compiler to  configuration of X Windows. Its breadth is thus encyclopedic, and yet it is  surprisingly sharp at details. The third edition added all the things that  happened since: KDE, GNOME, Samba... It may be my personal feeling only,  but the new chapters somewhat stick out, without really growing into the  tissue of the text.<br /><br />More important, the book fails to recognize that  the structure of new Linux users changed since 1995. At the time, it was  written as a &quot;getting started&quot; guide, and it served its role  perfectly. However, nowadays you cannot assume any more that every new  Linux user is familiar with command line commands or other Unix systems.  Therefore I don't think I could still recommend Running Linux as a  beginner's guide.<br /><br />Being one of the top-selling books on Linux, it  doesn't need any particular recommendation, anyway. Still, Running Linux is  a book edited to high O'Reilly standards, and written by some of the most  knowledgeable people in Linux community - which is to many a definite plus  compared to books written by journalists. I would say its best target  population are seasoned Unix users wanting to try Linux, technically minded  people in general, and CS students in particular. Others might find its  learning curve somewhat steep.	2000-06-23
US	51687115	R2M9DDIU10ISZ0	1565922603	454866046	UNIX  PowerTools	Books	5	27	27	N	N	If you can only afford one book on Unix, this is the one	I do not know about you, but for me, a book has to be pretty darn exceptional to persuade me to buy a second edition of a book which I already own the first. Unix Power Tools is one such book. It is simply  packed with tons of useful tips which the authors have accumulated over  decades of using Unix, and is a sort of `crme de la crme' of O'Reilly  reference books.<br /><br />Praise aside, the book is not for everyone. It is an  intermediate level reference, not an introductory tutorial. If your  problems are like &quot;How do I delete a file?&quot;, you should read  something else first, get acquainted with Unix, and then return to it. If,  however, the questions you face are more like &quot;How do I delete a file  with a null name?&quot;, then this is exactly the book for you. Unless  there is a real Unix wizard around you, this book is likely to earn you  this title in your environment.<br /><br />The second edition focuses on POSIX  systems rather than on SysV/BSD, uses Bash and Tcsh instead of Sh, Ksh and  Csh, and has moved from Awk to Perl. The two-colour printing is gone,  though. Fortunately, the superb index - one of the best I have seen - is  still here, and so are the cross-references in the text. Accompanying  CD-ROM might be essential if you are living in the mountains of Tajikistan,  but anybody connected to the Internet will probably prefer to download  newer versions of software on-line.	2000-06-02
US	51687115	R225MZ82IYD7ZG	0521431964	290364479	Electromechanics of Particles	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Behavior of polarizable particles in electric/magnetic field	Professor Jones, renowned author of numerous scientific papers on this topic and the Editor-in-Chief of Journal of Electrostatics, presents us with the monograph on the interaction of the electric or magnetic field  with non-charged small, but nevertheless macroscopic particles. The force  or torque exerted on particles by the field can result in migratory  movement in a non-homogeneous field (dielectrophoresis), rotation of  particles in a rotating electric field, orientational change of  non-spherical particles, and formation of aggregates of particles known as  pearl chains. The tome is a collection of important results in this field,  many of them are direct results of Professor Jones and his  coworkers.<br /><br />Throughout the book, only classical electrostatics and  magnetostatics are employed, i.e. particles are modelled as bodies and  shells with given (complex) dielectric permittivity (magnetic permeability  in the magnetostatic case), immersed in a homogeneous medium with different  electric (or magnetic) properties. This is not a particular drawback, since  there is an abundance of literature catering for readers interested in  mezzoscopic phenomena.<br /><br />It is clear that Professor Jones' intention was  to make the book accessible not only to physicists, but first and foremost  to the intended audience of engineers and scienctists from different  branches of science. Thus, for instance, Chapter 2 introduces the effective  moment model, which is used throughout the book rather than mathematically  more complex the Maxwell tensor formalism. Even though the book is a  scientific monograph, mathematics used as a rule does not exceed the  standard repertoire of any textbook on electromagnetism, such as multipolar  expansion. In addition, experimental scientists will probably appreciate  numerous results presented as simple formulas, suitable for comparing with  experimentally obtained values.<br /><br />Investigation of the interaction of  electric andmagnetic field with particles is gaining importance, in  particular in biotechnology. As standard textbooks on electromagnetism  rarely proceed beyond Clausius-Mossotti law, it is difficult for someone  new to this field to find where to start. This monograph could therefore  serve as a valuable introduction and reference to this field for a working  researcher or a graduate student.	2000-05-25
US	51687115	R3FBOXSVRPBTHD	1582340676	278851859	Uncle Petros and Goldbach's Conjecture	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Oudeis ageometretos eiseto	A young boy decided to find out the truth about his mysterious, eccentric uncle Petros, a retired professor of mathematics. As he grows into his teens, his obsession with the old man does not diminish, on the contrary, it tempts him into pursuing a career of mathematician himself. Page after  page, we follow him as he unveils secrets about his uncle and his life-long  struggle with a mathematical hypothesis known as Goldbach's  conjecture.<br /><br />With Petros and his nephew, the reader enters the arcane  and exciting area of number theory, a pandemonium of Goldbach's Conjecture,  Riemann Hypothesis, Prime Number Theorem, to name a few, with Goedel's  Incompleteness Theorem being a guest star. Apostolos Doxiadis, a  mathematician by his formal education, stands firmly on his ground -  science-wise, there are no apparent flops in the book, which happens so  often with writes less acquainted with the locale they put their  protagonists in. The title of this review, borrowed from Plato, is an  exaggeration - no prior mathematical knowledge is required to enjoy this  novel; some love for mathematics, however, is.<br /><br />Doxiadis - .........  - first published Uncle  Petros (O Theios Petros ...) in Greek in 1992, one year before Andrew Wiles  announced that he found the proof of the Fermat's Last Theorem. One out of  the three most difficult problems in mathematics has thus proven to be  solvable, after 350 years. To this day, Goldbach's Conjecture is still  &quot;only&quot; 250 years old, and not solved yet. However, the publishers  of Uncle Petros, Faber &amp; Faber (UK) and Bloomsbury (USA) have issued a  $1,000,000 challenge to prove it. Would you like to pick up where Petros  Papachristos left it?	2000-05-19
US	51687115	R2UWH17OBRTEFX	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	4	8	9	N	N	The birth of the chronograph	Latitude and longitude are fundamentally different. Rotation of Earth endows our planet with an axial symmetry. So while finding latitude is relatively easy, determining longitude is not. Save the moon and the  planets, the night sky looks exactly the same if you travel along the  parallel 15 degrees to the east east, or simply wait for an hour. Without  an accurate clock and a sextant, this made navigation on the open sea a  black magic. For any expanding overseas empire, this was serious matter.  Serious enough that the British Parliament offered a high prize -- several  millions dollars in today's money -- in 1714 for solving the longitude  problem.<br /><br />By 1730, the world still did not have any practical and  reliable method of finding longitude. By 1760, it had two. One of them,  backed by Britain's the most influential astronomers of the time, included  a quadrant (later sextant) and tabulated ephemerides. With them, a skilled  navigator could have calculated its position within hours, in clear  weather. The other method required only an accurate clock. If the clock can  tell you your home time, you only need to determine your local noon -- when  the shadows are the shortest -- and the difference between the two tells  you your longitude. This method was backed by a lone clockmaker, John  Harrison. This book is about him, about his life-long pursuit of a  reliable, seaworthy chronometer, and his battle with the scientific  establishment.<br /><br />Eighteen-century mechanics, while far from trivial, is  intuitive enough to make explaination of the internal workings of a shiny  brass clockwork a wonderful topic. With some diagrams and explanations of  Harrison's ingenious inventions, this book could easy become any engineer's  dream. Perhaps the illustrated edition (ISBN 0802713440) comes closer to  this ideal. Ms. Sobel, although allegedly a science writer, was more  interested in the socio-political aspects of the story, and hardly touches  the engineering part. Deliberately neglecting the engineering audience, the  book is far from being a historical scholarly text either. She writes in an  easy-to-read, journalese style. Fair enough, some thirty references are  listed in the end for anyone willing to pursue the topic further. So while  you cannot claim you've learned a lot of science or history, Longitude  still makes a great beach reading. And of course, reading this book is a  must for anyone planning to visit the Royal Observatory at Greenwich,  England, where the clocks are exhibited.	2000-05-17
US	51687115	R2F0OXGLAWFG0T	0465021212	354462139	The Evolution of Cooperation	Books	5	34	39	N	N	Can cooperation emerge among egoistic individuums?	Sometimes, the individual benefit seems to conflict with the benefit of the community as whole, even though the community includes this very individuum. One such example has been formulated as the Prisonner's Dilemma: two suspects, A and B, are arrested, and kept separated so that  they cannot communicate. If they continue to cooperate, they will be both  sentenced to one year. However, if suspect A cooperates, but suspect B  defects, A is going to be sentenced to five years, and suspect B will be  released. Vice versa, if B cooperates and A defects, A will be released and  B sentenced to five years. Finally, if both defect, they will both be  sentenced to three years each.<br /><br />It is clear that the best solution for  both of them is cooperation. On the other hand, each individual is also  tempted to maximize his own individual benefit. And each of them benefits  most if he decides to defect, which in turn brings the worst possible  outcome for both (six years total). So one-shot Prisonner's Dilemma rarely  leads to cooperation. Now, what if the very two chaps are later arrested  again? Will they cooperate when given another chance? Or if they know they  will face the same situation every five years? Professor Axelrod tested the  iterated Prisonner's Dilemma with computer programs, and investigated under  which circumstances cooperation can emerge.<br /><br />The book is nicely  scattered with fragments of game theory and examples from world politics.  All in all, as Richard Dawkins has commented in the foreword to its British  edition, in breathes with optimism, and is a delight to read. Still, it has  one problem, and actually shares it with Dawkins: the book reaches its  climax right at the beginning. The book starts with a strong and very  convincing idea, but later fails to keep the same pace of dynamic. The idea  is splendid, but the structure of the book could be enhanced.	2000-05-02
US	51687115	RP9ZBJBXOTK3I	078971826X	749841918	Complete Idiot's Guide to Linux	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Great for beginners, too shallow for others	Way into late nineties, most books on Linux still read like this: Here is Linux, which is zillion times better than MS-DOS, and here is the command shell, which is so much more powerful than COMMAND.COM in MS-DOS, then here  are X Windows, which are like MS Windows in DOS, only better... A reader  less acquainted with the history of computing might have asked &quot;Wow,  that's cool, but what is this MS-DOS thing you keep  mentioning?&quot;<br /><br />When the first edition of this book appeared in late  1998, Manuel Alberto Ricart was among the first authors to admit that  Windows 95 and 98 actually *did* happen. Rather than comparing bare-bones  Linux with a historic relic, he chose a decent peer for a modern Windows  environment: Linux with a desktop environment KDE.<br /><br />Mr. Ricart starts  with the elements of the KDE desktop, spends considerable time explaining  basic operations with it, then proceeds to the programs of KDE base suite:  file manager, text editor etc. The inevitable command line only comes in in  part two. After explaining the basic commands -- file utilities -- some  Unix concepts like pipes and regular expressions are discussed, while the  programming in command shell is omitted. The section on programming editors  Vi and Emacs is probably too short to be useful. The last part, part three,  deals with the system administration tasks. Installation of Linux is added  as an appendix.<br /><br />What is the advantage of using command shell despite  the existance of graphical interface? Mr. Ricart unfortunately cannot give  a convincing answer, although it is probably clear to every second reader  -- command shell contains a powerful macro language, which is superb for  performing repetitive tasks. This is a pity -- spending 30-40 more pages on  the Bash programming would actually give a meaning for including the  complete Part 2. But I guess there has to be something idiotic in each of  the books of Complete Idiot's series, right?<br /><br />Leaving this aside, the  book is perhaps the best introduction to Linux for beginners. Of all the  distributions, Caldera Open Linux that comes with the book allegedly has  the most user-friendly installation program -- unless you have some  unfortunate exotic hardware, with which it won't work. Bear in mind though  that every Linux CD included in a book is likely to be one year old or more  when it arrives in your hands, and one year is a long time in Linux  development. So the system you have just installed is already outdated...  Watch the Web to find out what is really going on.	2000-05-01
US	51687115	R3CVHWUD2K0KFN	0201541998	909552527	The Latex Companion (Addison-Wesley Series on Tools and Techniques for Computer T)	Books	4	25	31	N	N	All the things you wish were written in Lamport's guide	First, a remark on the title: this is not a companion to theprogram, but rather a companion to some other book on LaTeX you shouldhave. I bought this book back in 1994, when it was the first book onLaTeX2e, and by now it is thoroughly worn (though the binding is still doing its job well :).  However, at the time I bought it, I have already been using LaTeX for six years, and have read Lamport's guide (which is charming, and also the book The Companion intends to accompany) and Kopka and Daly's (which is better organized and more complete).<br /><br />The LaTeX Companion is something between an advanced course tutorial (could just as well be named Selected Chapters from LaTeX) and a reference book. None of them was ever aimed at beginners, and this one is no exception. LaTeX comes with a rich legacy of add-on macro packages doing various useful and nifty things with lists, floats, tables, formulas, graphics, fonts, indices and bibliographies. This book covers some of them. I would love to see second edition of this book covering more of them. There is a treasure hidden at CTAN, but it is usually hard to find it. The examples are well chosen and it is easy to learn from them. I am less pleased with the index. At 36 pages, it looks very promising, but it rarely led me to the place I sought. During years of use, I mostly figured out where in a book things are, and stopped using it.<br /><br />Despite the confusing index, the book is worth its (admittedly high) price and you will probably learn many useful things from it. The idea of a thin tutorial and a partly-overlapping &quot;companion book&quot; doesn't appeal to me, though. Personally, I would prefer one single book with a complete treatment of the topic.	2000-04-29
US	51687115	R1YAH7CYD2GOLW	1565922255	480381905	sed & awk	Books	4	33	35	N	N	Powerful tools for text manipulation	Unix has earned itself quite a reputation for its potent tools, used for batch editing of text files (like program output). Sed and Awk are two of these tools. Sed is a direct descendent of Ed, the original Unix line  editor, which employs regular expressions, a powerful method for  description of patterns in text, for operations like substitute, append or  delete. Awk is a complete scripting language with programming structures  like conditionals, loops, functions etc., developed in 1970's by Alfred  Aho, Brian Kernighan and Peter Weinberger (hence A-W-K). The trio has also  written a book on Awk.<br /><br />Dale Dougherty (in the 2nd edition with Arnold  Robbins, maintainer of GNU Awk and author of several more books on Awk  programming language) have made a good job in making a thoroughly readable  tutorial on Sed and Awk. However, it remains a mystery to me how they  succeeded to fill no less than 407 pages with it. Mind you, Sed and Awk are  not really some big monsters. There exist something like two dozens of  operators in Sed (most of them you will probably never use), and the syntax  of Awk mimics those of C programming language, so it is likely that you  know it already. Once you grok the idea of regular expressions, you should  become a proficient user of Awk in about 30 minutes.<br /><br />In conclusion, go  buy the book if your need to manipulate text files on Unix and you think  you need a lengthy tutorial with a gentle learning curve. Otherwise, short  references on Awk and Sed, like the ones in &quot;Unix Power Tools&quot;  and a bunch of examples showing some tricks you might not think of, will  probably be more useful. In addition, it is good to know that during the  nineties, much of the focus has drifted from Awk to Perl, so you might  consider a book on Perl as well.	2000-04-15
US	51687115	R3CT91ETLXEUR1	0671726889	538304275	Cuckoo's Egg	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A spy story set in the time of early Internet	During his first week as a system administrator at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratories, Cliff Stoll noticed a mismatch of $0.75 in the total sum produced by two different programs used for system accounting. Within a day  or two, he discovered that the system he is in charge of has been broken  into. Most people would at that point shut the security hole, thus perhaps  throwing away excellent material for a book. Dr. Stoll instead decided to  track down the intruder, a quest that occupied most of his time for several  months. His chase brought him in contact with several three-letter  agencies, as well as celebrities Luis Alvarez and Bob Morris Sr.<br /><br />Dr.  Stall put considerable efforts to make descriptions of technical details as  non-technical as possible. Still, enough details are preserved to bring  fond memories to all those still remembering the BSD and System V Unices,  VMS and early Internet. More amazing for me, however, was his deep and  profound trust in the government agencies. In short, all of them wanted him  to continue the chase while refused to help him in any way; requested  information from him and at the same time giving no valuable information in  return. As a topping, after Markus Hess -- the cracker Stoll has been  chasing for month -- was arrested, FBI refused to release any information  to Dr. Stoll and requested him to keep quiet, while at the same time leaked  the story to a German magazine. Still, the whole episode seem to strengthen  his belief in the government agencies, even more so when he discovers that  the intruder is from abroad. Now if this is not patriotism, I do not know  what it is.<br /><br />All in all, the book reads as a very readable spy chase --  and a true one. Dr. Stoll writes well enough to succesfully convince even a  non-American reader that he was doing the right thing and Hess was not.  Well, almost.	2000-04-13
US	51687115	R2PE1Y5QFICGGK	1858282276	796721501	Corsica: The Rough Guide, Second Edition (2nd ed)(Rough Guides)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	You have no other choice - buy it!	How many other guides to Corsica aimed at independent travellers, written  in English can you name? Yes, Corsica is covered in each and every guide to  France as well, but those 20 or so pages in a 500-pages book aren't what  you really want, are they? It would be unfair to say though that Corsica:  The Rough Guide is the best one simply because it's also the only one --  both the authors and the editorial staff has done a pretty decent job on  this one. Recommended.	1998-08-27
