US	51688225	R1ZWTT3P70FMTQ	0393058506	904288157	The Great Unraveling: Losing Our Way in the New Century	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Critical observations by a believer in the system	What is particularly poignant about this work is that Paul Krugman is a mainstream, moderate economist, who is clearly committed to the capitalist and believes in reasonable free enterprise.  He is not a half baked neo-Marxist, and his premise is that the depredations of the Bush Administration's economic policies are undermining our economy, and anti-thetical to sound capitalist monetary policies.<br />Krugman clearly notes the disconnect between the rhetoric, and the reality of the Bush administration's policies, and notes the deliberate distortion in order to acquire legislative authorization to enact actions contrary to the public's intent.  He notes that this is a radically aggressive government, with a mission to dismantle much of the economic policy that has been the basis of our and social and governmental structure for this century.  Particularly unnerving is Krugman's referencing of the Asian and Latin American economies and how parallel policies torpedoed them.<br />The author also points out the free ride Bush has been given by the press, and the irresponsible failure of journalists to do the basic math and point out that this administration's math doesn't add up, and often is outright fabrication.<br />This is a chilling indictment from a well grounded, and respected moderate.	2004-03-19
US	51688225	R3TYD8TA16LP6F	0618164723	392143634	Fat Land: How Americans Became the Fattest People in the World	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Crucial, and dense with detail	Okay, pardon the pun in the \\"dense in detail\\".  However, this is a comprehensive, extensively researched and documented study of American obesity, and plowing through the numerous facts and statistics does take some commitment.  <br />Critser starts off on an entertaining, and somewhat light tone which will engage the reader and secure his commitment when the arcane physiological and chemical terminology and statistics are somewhat overwhelming.  After the author has made his point he does have a tendency to beat it into the ground with additional detail that brings to mind the expression \\"too much information\\".  However, it's all very important in light of the ongoing tragedy of prevalent American obesity.<br />Critser provides a very interesting history of recent food additives, which is extremely helpful in enabling you to be discriminating in what you eat -- specifically food additives such as palm oil and high fructose corn syrup about which our friends in journals such as the \\"Nutrition Action Newsletter\\" and \\"Prevention\\" have been warning us for years.  This is hardly hysteria on the part of \\"health food diet Nazis\\"; the points Critser makes are intuitively obvious, and when understood simply common sense.<br />The author also makes a much harder case for exercise, particularly strenous exercise, which is a hard sell in an increasingly sedentary culture.  While his points are valid, from a feasibility perspective those prompting a movement from inertia to moderate exercise are more likely to find converts.<br />Critser's observations on the cost to all citizens, in terms of increased health premiums, besides the more pervasive but subtle losses in worker productivity due to obesity related illnesses are poignant and frightening.   However, he also makes a valid point that major processed food industries have an immediate interest in obscuring and outright challenging such facts.  It is hard to contest the point that there are more Americans who are affected with obesity than who smoke cigarettes, which is a valid if terrifying observation.<br />This is an important work -- unfortunately, I suspect its impact will be limited as most people will prefer to keep their heads buried in the sand (or trough).	2004-01-28
US	51688225	R1CZURPDCVDWGU	0743244915	730119057	Jarhead: A Marine's Chronicle of the Gulf War and Other Battles	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Crude, vulgar, poignant, mesmerizing	As you begin &quot;Jarhead&quot; you immediately begin to find it distasteful.  Swofford begins with descriptions of normal, daily human activities that polite people typically don't discuss.  And, as you delve further into this chronicle the author describes crude people you wouldn't particularly want to know, much less live next to...lower class, bottom feeders, misfits.  Marines aren't trained to be polite people.  Swofford's point, throughout the study, is that these are often the people drawn by the allure of becoming a mean &quot;killing machine&quot;, or whose social class leaves this as one of the few opportunities for &quot;advancement&quot;.<br />While the mainstream propaganda would have you believe otherwise, the men we transform into marines aren't trained to be choirboys or even Eagle Scouts.  The author describes how we pander to these men's baser instincts in order to render them brutal, callous fighters willing to do the ugly job of killing and to endure the conditions wraught by war.  However, these are also human beings, with hearts and souls who are indelibly affected by their harsh and ugly experiences --despite how much the military might strive to toughen and insensitize them, to get them to unblinkingly obey, or to persuade them of the righteousness of their charge.<br />Swofford doesn't cry, whine, or ask for sympathy.  However, after reading &quot;Jarhead&quot; you can't help but be empathetic.  The brutalizing of these men is tragic, as conveyed by the crying of his mother after noting the transformation of her &quot;sweet son&quot; into an angry man following basic training, and the opposition of his laconic, marine veteran father to his enlistment.  Those caught up in in the &quot;Semper Fi&quot; propaganda will dismiss this as psycho babble.  However, the numerous socially disfunctional if not psychologically impaired veterans more than support Swofford's assertions.	2004-01-27
US	51688225	R2JJIN86BFBGJU	0743217721	663582620	Carry Me Home: Birmingham, Alabama: The Climactic Battle of the Civil Rights Revolution	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Rivetting historical writing	&quot;Bring Me Home&quot; is electrifying and reads like a murder mystery, which in fact it is.  All of the elements are present:  villains, murderers, thieves, and victims.  And in many respects the story has been a mystery, with some of the perpetrators only recently brought to justice -- 23 years after the 12th Street Baptist Church bombing-murder, with numerous related crimes still unresolved.  The author herself, for whom this is in part a memoir, was unable to get a definitive answer from her own father, whose involvement in the era's events or lack thereof remain somewhat murky.<br />This is a serious historical work, and reading it requires commitment and energy.  However, McWhorther is an excellent writer which makes the effort extremely pleasurable -- with her lightening the drama of the horrific events with frequent dry sarcastic and ironic observations on the era's events, and the culture of the Southeast.<br />The author logically and factually substantiates how racism was employed by local capitalist hegemony to control working class whites, as well as to maintain black oppression by manipulation of the Klu Klux Klan and other extremist racists.  While I have been a student of this era I was fascinated by McWhorter's depiction of the Klu Klux Klan's origins as a populist white movement.  Additionally, McWhorter gives long overdue recognition to the  pivotal role played by Reverend Fred Shuttlesworth whose substantial achievements based in unrelenting activitism were eclipsed by the politics in the civil rights movement, resulting in Martin Luther King's being thrust into the limelight and receiving disproportionate credit.<br />The poignancy of this book is also largely a function of the writer's background as a member of one of Birmingham's upper crust families, with the irony of her father electing a working class white lifestyle.  McWhorter owns up to her culpability in the disenfranchisement and oppression of blacks as a member of this society, andthis book is in part an effort at compensation.  It is truly an excellent work.	2004-01-13
US	51688225	R3FGEDY3GXLE3F	0375401466	160007841	Old School	Books	4	1	5	N	N	A seeming sequel to &quot;This Boy's Life&quot;	I am only glad that I haven't read &quot;In Pharoah's Army&quot;, because having read &quot;This Boy's Life&quot;, I am convinced that Wolfe's latest novel is almost biographical, so I'd like to read the seeming &quot;trilogy&quot; in sequence.  However, I will need to do some more research on him to determine to what extent.  This impression isn't deterred by the cover photograph which originates from the Hill School where Wolfe managed through duplicity to be admitted.<br />&quot;Old School&quot; is an interesting and engaging novel which seems to depict an era reminiscent of the 1940s, though the protagonist ends up a Vietnam veteran.  It depicts an regimented, hierarchical academic world isolated from the mainstream that predated meritocracy, one that is somewhat idealistic with a cerebral focus on writing and literature, and rigid social mores and honor codes established to maintain the WASP ideal. <br />While many novels need substantial editing, this is one where I felt the characters could have benefitted from being fleshed out somewhat more.  Additionally, after the protagonist's abrupt and tragic self inflicted wound, there seems insufficient development and almost a disconnect between that catastrophe and his achieving almost too poetic closure.  The protagonist's graciousness at the end doesn't seem commensurate with the brutal and disproportionate punishment meted out to him.<br />This is a good and worthwhile novel; perhaps it was simply at the end that I wanted more.	2003-12-09
US	51688225	R2X1ABHEU7C44	0812966864	175759763	Love by the Glass: Tasting Notes from a Marriage	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Sweet, helpful, and unpretentious	Gaiter and Brecher have employed their love of wine as a wonderful frame for the warm and touching story of their lives together.  Both are people of incredible accomplishment who share their experiences and appreciation of wine in an uncomplicated, unpretentious, and understated fashion.  While what they share about their evolving interest and expertise in wine is interesting, it is their own personal chronicle that is fascinating.<br />This is a wonderful book for the neophyte/developing devotee of wine.  They frankly point out their initially pedestrian taste in wine, and their continued willingness to try seemingly unsophisticated, &quot;fun&quot;, or inexpensive wines. I experienced some mild nausea reading what a wonderful principled paragon of good journalism the &quot;Wall Street Journal&quot; represents (in light of its editorial page); however, its credibility jumped in my estimation while reading this book due to the admiration I developed for them and their advocacy of the paper.  This book challenged my assumptions, in that the seeming journal of the privileged features a wine column ideal for the needs of regular people.<br />&quot;Love By the Glass&quot; is a practical guide to savoring wine that doubles as a touching memoir.   It is not a great book or a connoisseur's guide, but definitely is a fun and worthwhile read.	2003-12-02
US	51688225	R2ICH65AZ9VJW3	0375410082	412479139	Waxwings: A novel	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Meandering, inconclusive, and depressing	The prospect of reading a novel by Jonathan Raban, after enjoying his very satisfying &quot;Bad Land&quot; was exciting, and the fact that it was focused on late '90's Seattle was icing on the cake.  However, this fell far short of those raised expectations.  Perhaps because it appears Rabin never decided whether to produce a lampoon on Seattle in the 1990s or substantive work of fiction.<br />&quot;Waxwings&quot; reads as a Brit's caustic social review of Seattle society and culture.  While there is ample ammunition provided for a valid skewering of the dot.com culture in the area, his hardly veiled trashing of the University of Washington (and American higher education period) comes across as shallow, snide, far from accurate, and simply jealous.  While knowing Raban is a British immigrant I am reading a good deal in here, he enabled this plausible interpretation by making his central character a British professor.  If you are going to ridicule, you need to employ rapier wit and sharp, apt observations to pull it off; &quot;Waxwings&quot; doesn't.<br />The characters are shallow, mostly unsympathetic, and depressing.  While I understand the intended metamorphosis, the most sympathetic character -- an illegal Chinese immigrant simply becomes grim and ugly, with insufficient development of the basis of this transformation. The plot seems to meander, and when the ending finally comes, it is somewhat inconclusive and your find yourself looking to see whether there is a final chapter, or afterword that you missed.<br />&quot;Waxwings&quot; is okay, but also a tremendous disappointment.	2003-11-19
US	51688225	R3B9XHEXLPTS4V	1400050669	951260070	The Lies of George W. Bush: Mastering the Politics of Deception	Books	5	526	577	N	N	Comprehensive, sobering, poignant	For those of us who have devoured the recent books outlining the depradations of the Bush Administration such as those by Vidal, Ivins, Franken, and Moore you will find little revelatory here.  However, David Corn is a fine journalist and serious scholar with evident professional integrity.  So, what is rewarding about &quot;The Lies of George W. Bush&quot; is its comprehensive, well documented, and scholarly approach -- making it above reproach in terms of research and accuracy.<br />Corn's basic point and most poignant observation is at the book's beginning.  There is nothing unique about Bush as a politician being a liar; in that respect he is in good company.  However, he campaigned on a self righteous, moralistic platform asserting that he would maintain clean campaigns and straightforward, honest leadership. It was on this basis that he proclaimed he was entitled to the mantle of leadership rather than Al Gore, whose occasional bending of the truth the Republicans branded reprehensible and immoral.  His constituents also assert that unbending commitment to the truth and morality  is their quest, yet they relentlessly lie in their ruthless quest for power and profit as they trample the rights and exploit the majority of Americans, and endanger the safety of the planet.<br />Probably the best, and most telling chapter in the book deals with Bush's &quot;White Collar Lies&quot;.  He comprehensively outlines Bush's violations of SEC regulations, outright lies, and theft during his involvement in Harken Energy and substantial profits from insider trading, which foreshadowed the later Enron scandal that mirrored this scandal.  Corn skillfully compares the two and, in an understated fashion, points out the glaring irony.<br />Corn very effectively and eloquently outlines that George W. Bush is a well established liar, and on the basis of his widespread, pervasive, and menacing lies, and his ruthlessness in pursuit of any of his objectives that he is unfit to be the President of the United States.	2003-11-06
US	51688225	R12O4P378MM728	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Hard questions coupled with constructive suggestions	Michael Moore is characterically brilliant in mocking and skewering corporate and government figures whose actions result in suffering with savage irony.  This isn't such a lampoon, however; in this book Moore is striving to provoke and mobilize readers to action to remove the current menance controlling the government and rapidly deconstructing our democratic institutions.<br />Moore asks out loud a number of awkward, but self evident questions about the Bush family's complicity with the Saudi monarchy and the inexplicable (?) failure of the government and military to respond during the attacks on Manhattan and the Pentagon on September 11, 2001.  Particularly disturbing are well documented chronicle of the Bush administration's evacuation of the Bin Laden and Saudi royal family members in the US, while commercial aircraft were grounded during that emergency, and Bush's unofficial meeting with the Saudi ambassador the evening of September 11.  Like other critics he sees the Bush administration seizing these attacks as an opportunity for the ongoing promotion of fear and paranoia to enable an aggressive attack on civil liberties and any efforts to restrain the Republican political and corporate agenda.<br />This book is yet another that note that the media is complicit in enabling the Bush administration's depredations.  Particularly interesting is Moore's description of how Murdock/News Corporation Harper Collins sought to censor his earlier \\"Stupid White Men\\" due to its criticism of the Bush Adminstration.<br />Moore does have a somewhat tedious tendency to get cute in this and other books, which quickly becomes cloying.  This is evident in his proposing that Oprah Whinfrey be drafted as a presidential candidate.  However, he does have some plausible, constructive suggestions once you sift them from a few of the nonsensical.  What is evident here is that Moore is passionately concerned about the fate of our nation, and believes that civil action by the silent majority of fair and open minded Americans is essential immediately to contain the rapidly accelerating damage to our nation and the remainder of the world at the direction of the Bush Administration.  Bravo to Moore, and God willing more Americans will heed his cry for help.	2003-10-15
US	51688225	R18GR5N4CZSFDC	0375507523	644345297	Bushwhacked: Life in George W. Bush's America	Books	5	97	107	N	N	Rapidly dismantling the government safety net	First, it needs to be pointed out that while still sardonic, this is a much more serious and journalistic/supported work by Molly Ivins, as is her earlier collaboration &quot;Shrub&quot;, in part due to its coauthor Lou DuBose of the &quot;Texas Observer&quot;.  Ivins is always solid, but when challenging skilled professional, ruthless, and exceedingly dangerous liars it helps to have watertight research and facts.  They are here, unlike the ongoing smokescreen that they reveal and repudiate.<br />I knew beginning this book that it would plunge me into great depression -- however, I also knew it was my civic responsibility, and that as a parent, to read this because it is evident that this country is under attack and that the government and freedoms that have made us great and the envy of the world are under an ongoing barrage from the Bush Administration.  Ivins and Dubose state it succinctly and eloquently when they note that Mussolini defined fascism as a merger of corporate and government interests -- an identical pattern is clearly at work in the US today -- right down to similar propaganda clouding the judgement of the average citizen.  Deja vu -- or the more apt German translation.<br />This is a frightening, as well as disturbing study. It is comprehensive in terms of the close alliance of the Bush family and foreign interests, the attacks on food safety, education, the criminal justice system, worker safety, the environment, and the entire government safety net.  I don't believe Ivin's assertion that Bush's religious posturing is ideological, I think it is a smokescreen, but she and Dubose are definitely on target that his antipathy toward government and support of corporate hegemony are nearly religious in fervor.<br />The mendacity, inequities, cruelness, and stupidity of what is going on in this administration -- largely unchallenged, much less checked -- are comprehensively examined.  This is a very important book.  To those who would not read it I would caution that the average German probably felt similarly stymied during the 1930's; they, like us were essentially good people whose failure to pay attention and to resist enabled colossal evil to control their society.  We are naive to dismiss the possibility that it could similarly occur here.	2003-10-10
US	51688225	R2XTHAYCN9KJE0	0525946756	557461421	Skipping Towards Gomorrah: The Seven Deadly Sins and the Pursuit of Happiness in America	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The Relativity of Sin and Morality	You begin reading anything written by Dan Savage expecting it to be provocative.  So those who are easily bruised by vulgarity and hedonistic self indulgence shouldn't crack the book. However, in his characteristically inciteful fashion Savage chooses to take a somewhat sober look at what, based upon an individual's particular social mores, are fundamental sins.  Of course, Savage doesn't disappoint his usual following and renders this examination in his typical mocking, iconoclastic style.  <br />The consistent point that Savage makes is how incredibly prevalent (cumulatively) the practice of these sins is among the solid, highly functional, hard working majority in a society that morality scolds suggest is close to collapse.  Additionally, he makes standard progressive observations about the  ineffectiveness and waste attempting to legislate and regulate these widespread practices costs American society -- as well as the glaring hypocracy such social legislation represents.  He also makes the valid point that by damning many of these practices as physically destructive and taboo, government only adds to their allure while simultaneously undermining its own credibility.<br />To his credit, Savage tries with a somewhat open mind to examine and experience things he finds repellent such as learning to fire a hand gun, gambling, and joining a convention of the defiantly obese.  While he, and perhaps most readers, will find many of these practices sad (actually I was made queasy by much of the book) he focuses on the irony, and the inconsistency with which we define and attempt to control immorality.  Interestingly, some of the most destructive sins (handgun access, gambling, relentless and subtle unhealthy promotion of obesity) are entirely legal, where relatively victimless practices such as the use of marijuana are grossly distorted, and the effort to control them generates more associated vice than permitting them would.<br />Readers will experience some cognitive dissonance reading some of Savage's conservative views, e.g.: a somewhat rambling diatribe about wanting to assassinate Osama bin Laden.  His self righteousness, and immense self assurance are occasionally grating, but this is a thought provoking and worthwhile study that makes many valid observations, and is entertaining in Dan Savage's self consciously shocking &quot;bad boy&quot; fashion.	2003-09-29
US	51688225	RNX54OWAWSAME	0618334661	847790169	Reefer Madness: Sex, Drugs, and Cheap Labor in the American Black Market	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Invisible and Nameless Economy	This is another eloquent and scholarly journalistic effort by Schlosser focusing on issues resonant with practically anyone in American society.  Readers will be impressed with the author's substantial researchm which is organized and presented in an eloquent yet unpretentious and \\"readable\\" fashion.<br />\\"Reefer Madness\\" marks a shift by Schlosser to more partisan journalism by his conspicuous and passionate observations about the social justice implications of our reliance upon undocumented \\"illegal\\" farmer workers, as well as the irony of how an agricultural economy based upon such labor, as well as the hypocracy and inconsistencies of our \\"moral\\" legislation regulating America's immense demand for recreation drugs and pornography, in actuality work to undermine our legitimate economy.<br />While the thread of commonality throughout this work is the immensity of this parallel economy, and the impact upon and threat it poses to our \\"legitimate\\" economy, the three topics he studies are pretty much distinct and separate issues.  It requires the reader to stretch a bit conceptually to see the valid, but somewhat subtle connections.<br />Schlosser's sorrow, outrage, and angst -- especially concerning undocumented workers -- are moving and heartwrenching, especially since they are backed by irrefutable statistics.  Readers should be warned that you will find yourself hard pressed to ever again eat a farm raised strawberry in good conscience in light of the exploitation and oppression its production represents.	2003-09-25
US	51688225	R18EYCJWAXMFE3	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Swinging Instead of Ducking	Al Franken has again gone on the offensive to speak on behalf of the many Americans tired of neo-conservative distortion and outright lying to manipulate the opinion of the great majority of Americans too busy just surviving or apathetic to seek out and demand the truth from government, the media, industry, and commerce.  It is important to realize that despite quite sophisticated research, and airtight statistics, Franken does not profess to be a journalist -- only a comedian and self righteously outraged citizen.  Of course, that is the delicious irony of the book -- that a comedian is providing more valid, unvarnished, and intentionally honest facts than the media who are allegedly committed by professional ethics to represent events and facts in a non-partisan, accurate manner.<br />Additionally, Franken makes no bones about the fact that he is partisan.  He takes aim (and achieves numerous bullseyes) calling right wing media as it is -- a mouthpiece for corporate interests, the conservative right, and their political machine the Republican Party.  And he employs the same no gloves tactics that the Republican disinformation sources such as Fox News, the Washington Times, and New York Post do -- he is ruthless and personal, and comes out and actually calls them as they are -- &quot;liars&quot;.  The added irony here is when called on it, the conservative bullies cry fowl, unfair, and unkind -- despite over twenty years of their vicious mendacity, and the resulting squeezing and screwing of the majority of Americans on behalf of a wealthy miniscule minority, and severe damage to our government, society, and culture.<br />This isn't great literature; it isn't an academic study or state of the art journalism -- and Franken doesn't for a moment profess that it is.  However, it is obviously the truth, and it is solace for those many of us who are so discouraged, and feel so disenfranchised by an unrepresentative group of principleless corporate schills running our government and manipulating opinion through dishonest propaganda transmitted through the media outlets that they have created.	2003-09-24
US	51688225	R1AY1696I1E6SA	0312283709	994951933	Running with Scissors: A Memoir	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Sardonic survival	This first of Burrough's memoirs depicts a child's good natured fortitude and amazing survival contending with daunting adversity.  Dysfunctional seems an inadequate term to describe his living conditions and rearing in an atmosphere of criminal, heart wrenching neglect and stomach turning abuse.  The only reason that the actions of the parents and guardians involved is (perhaps) forgiveable is because they were obviously mentally ill.  However, it is hard not to be enraged by the selfishness and cruelty of his parents.<br />While the reader infers that the writing is cathartic, and therapeutic, &quot;Writing with Scissors&quot; reflects anguish over a lost childhood, despite Burrough's sardonic, self mocking recollections.  What one concludes reading this work is that not only is Burroughs a survivor, but also an individual of superior intellect and ability to have come out of it all capable of making his way (apparently quite successfully) despite circumstances that would have crippled any mere mortal.<br />Burrough's recollections are horrifyingly funny, and the memoir is rendolent with shock value.  It is, however, also heart wrenching and melancholy.  Perhaps amazing is the best term to describe it.	2003-07-17
US	51688225	R36LN90TFHB4K3	1560255021	528901183	Dreaming War: Blood for Oil and the Cheney-Bush Junta (Nation Books)	Books	4	61	69	N	N	Obvious Observations About September 11	Before opening this book it is obvious where Gore is going in this collection of essays.  However, for those of us seeking solace as we witness the ongoing depradations of the Bush Administration the few opinions in print that seem to validate our opinions are needed and reassuring.<br />What I didn't expect in this collection of essays was Vidal's stunning, but intuitively obvious expose of the apparent decision to allow the attacks of September 11.  While most complacent, sheep-like Americans will dismiss this as more &quot;radical left conspiracy theory blather&quot;, how else can one explain that fact that 4 commercial aircraft were hijacked simultaneously, lost control with air traffic controllers for one half hour and allowed to attack the nation's largest city, and its capital, also simultaneously, without any response from the most powerful military on the planet?  To assume Vidal is incorrect would assume that the entire eastern seaboard remained entirely vulnerable to attack prior to September 11.  This is hardly likely, and Vidal points out the incentives and historical precedents.  That his assertions aren't far fetched is being supported by the Bush Administration's ongoing stonewalling of investigations of the events of September 11.<br />A few of the essays are revelatory, and have insight and bite.  Others are mired in Vidal's pedantic rehashing of WWII, and memories of a fictional, idealistic republic, which he is clearly reflecting upon with rose colored glasses.  While America's imperialism and quest for empire have been bold and unattractive for the past 110 years, our history under the &quot;republic&quot; was hardly unblemished with its legacy of slavery, racism, disenfranchisement of women, and extermination of native Americans.  One is prompted to observe that hindsight is always 20/20.  A number of these essays reveal that Vidal is losing his focus, and waxing nostaglic as he gets older -- his mind, however, remains strong as a beartrap, andhis integrity and courage are light years beyond that of most writers.<br />This collection will rightfully make you cynical, angry, depressed, and frightened.  It is important, however, that Vidal's observations not be dismissed -- he is not to be underestimated and far from half baked.  The operative question is why haven't, and aren't, more Americans asking the same questions about the attacks of September 11.	2003-07-15
US	51688225	RUQXAINV4ALZ7	0802117449	981529853	Ten Little Indians	Books	3	20	28	N	N	Not Vintage Alexie	Since I am a fan of Sherman Alexie's, and have read all of his previous works, I found this book disappointing.  If you have read any of his other works you will note some redundancy, and perhaps be left with a sort of \\"deja vu\\" feeling.<br />While one or two are noteworthy, the stories are milking the same Alexie themes, now getting tired.  His displeasure with the \\"greyness of Seattle weather\\" has gotten old.  He has exhaustively explored the impact of young men on strong women and a matrilineal culture.  His incorporation of sexual innuendo and humor have grown puerile.  And, he is beating the basketball theme into the ground. <br />I think it is time for Alexie to take a hiatus to ponder and perhaps devote his considerable talent to explore some of his other experiences...or to take the time to have some.  The themes in this book are like orange juice concentrate to which 4 cans of water have been added.	2003-07-14
US	51688225	R26X3Z76XZGWUR	0312272057	433455404	Dry: A Memoir	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Coming to Be Honest with Himself	Burroughs memoir is iconoclastic, and almost oxymoronic, as he represents awkward, embarrassing, distasteful, and tragic episodes in his life in a skillful sardonic, self effacing fashion that makes you frequently laugh out loud, despite the seriousness and severity of conditions at hand.<br />Perhaps what prompts, and allows you to be entertained by this memoir rendolent with addiction, child abuse, terminal illness, and loss is the fact that Burroughs has surmounted these challenges and become a stronger, but far from smug -- nor sanctimonious, person.  His memoir is brutally honest with and about himself.  While &quot;Dry&quot; isn't really &quot;humorous&quot;, Burroughs is able to laugh at himself, though one suspects this is a long established coping/survival mechanism for him.<br />&quot;Dry&quot; is not simply a sarcastic and self mocking tale.  It is also a moving memoir about love, loss, and communication in relationships.  You will be touched as well as simultaneously entertained and horrified by this memoir.	2003-07-10
US	51688225	R1BQ0YUIEY5GO9	0375413944	266419082	Great Neck	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The Irony of Holocaust "Blowback" on the North Shore	\\"Great Neck\\" is one of the most distinctively creative books I have read.  Cantor brilliantly interweaves, and depicts a quite plausible interconnection between the impact of the civil rights movementand  the Students for a Democratic Society of the late '60s/early '70s as a reaction to the search for sanctuary from anti-semetism, and the Holocaust specifically, in the affluent oasis of Great Neck, Long Island.  However, in his tale the author indicates that this quest was quixiotic, that in fact the legacy of the Holocaust cannot be escaped and that their religion's heritage of ethics and responsibility eventually compells Jews to venture from what is safe to advocate for social justice. The irony of the book (in Cantor's rendering) is that as a response to persecution Jews won hard sought after success and moved to Great Neck as a sanctuary to savor their achievements, only to find peace elusive. <br />To those familiar with the actual Great Neck, LI, the book may come as a surprise.  It in no way validates stereotypes of shallow self absorbed exceedingly affluent suburban New Yorkers.  This is a complex book that attempts to depict the angst of the experience of a group of the now Jewish upper middle class in a segment of Long Island, who find their tortured heritage impossible to escape.  \\"Great Neck\\" is an engrossing, substantive and thought provoking book.	2003-06-17
US	51688225	R1SLG59O2MYQ3C	0395944171	543646566	Snobbery: The American Version	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Meritocracy, and the desire for distinction	&quot;Snobbery&quot; is quite entertaining, and will hit the typical yuppie right where he lives (ouch!).  To enjoy this book you require the ability to laugh at yourself -- that is, should you intend to read it entirely.  It is part of a currently popular genre, also prominently illustrated by David Brooks in his &quot;Bobos in Paradise&quot; and various articles in &quot;The Atlantic&quot;.<br />Epstein does outline the historical precedents of snobbery and shows its evolution and resulting many new manifestations as meritocracy has allowed greater access to money, and the various niches of society seek distinction.  However, as Epstein notes, snobbery exists at all levels of society in some shape or form.<br />He does stress (perhaps overstress, with a bit of bitterness over the past) his own personal experience emphasizing the only relatively recent access by Jews to certain stratas of American society and the resulting changes in heretofore WASP dominated institutions.   To his credit, he owns up to his own elitist attitudes throughout the book.<br />Interesting, entertaining, not as clever as I anticipated, but a worthwhile read.	2003-05-09
US	51688225	R27US18WYR62NZ	0743219651	845477731	Waiting for Snow in Havana: Confessions of a Cuban Boy	Books	4	19	24	N	N	Warm nostaglia, irony, and smoldering rage	\\"Waiting for Snow in Havana\\" is a warm and entertaining descripton of being catapulted from a privileged childhood in Havana to an abrupt and grinding struggle in the United States.  Eire focuses his memoir on endearing recollections of childhood as the pampered son of a Cuban judge.  However, it is balanced by brief allusions to the harsh fate he encountered as a refugee in the United States.<br />Eire's memoir is full of irony, referencing his childhood aversion of being black (afraid to eat chocolate for fear of transforming), which he associated with poverty and servitude only to have his white identity challenged after experiencing severe prejudice as a Latino after coming to the United States.  Additionally, the reader infers that Eire interprets his destiny as in part \\"karma\\" for being shielded from punishment for childhood malicious mischief because of his status as the spoiled child of a prominent public official.<br />This book exudes the familiar rage of formerly upper middle class Cuban immigrants over their need to flee the island, and the radical transformations that followed many of which reek of hypocracy and corruption.  Reading works like this helps to make more understandable the mentality of the Cuban diaspora in Miami.<br />Eire's recollections are bittersweet and personally tragic, as they document a happy and pampered childhood filled with family love, followed by inexplicable hurt and disillusionment over a father who refused to live Cuba to join his emigre family.<br />An engrossing, and well written story.  It is evidence of the incredible fortitude and resilience of many Cubans who fled to the United States following Castro's revolution.	2003-05-06
US	51688225	R3UQDEFT08ZCTF	0670030910	51076004	All Over Creation	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Championing Life and Nature	Ruth Ozeki has produced another iconoclastic, sardonic, and hair raising novel raising further awareness about corporate subversion of our food supply.  While not as ambitious as her earlier \\"My Year of Meats\\", this novel spotlights the threats to our health and nature as a whole posed by the genetic engineering of food crops.   While we knew that green crops such as celery and lettuce were full of pesticides, immediately after finishing this book, and before I'd had a chance to turn the first page, my wife committed to only buying organic potatoes. Living not far from the site of this fictional tale, and where most of the nation's potatoes are grown, I was even more engaged in the author's description of how the dwindling number of remaining small farmers are coerced by corporate agricultural practices -- and how their own health is compromised as an added result.<br />Ozeki again proved able to weave an entertaining and touching tale interwining human nature and our food supply.  She tells a poignant and touching story about the unpredictability of nature while simultaneously making you laugh out loud.<br />While Ozeki's satirical style makes the situation sound far fetched, she is again absolutely on time, as confirmed in recent articles in \\"Harpers\\" and the \\"New York Times\\" have confirmed.  There is a sound basis in fear underlying the strident opposition of the Europeans to genetically alerted crops besides a seemingly elitist aversion to the American largely convenience food diet.  Ozeki accurately represents how genetic modification of the agriculture is a critical threat to the world's health supply as a whole.  Unfortunately, the actual outcome is less likely to be as upbeat as the novel's end.	2003-04-07
US	51688225	R1Z7XKG2DUVK61	0684863871	40119901	Random Family: Love, Drugs, Trouble, and Coming of Age in the Bronx	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The Invisible Underclass	LeBlanc's chronicle describes a separate, largely alien subculture ignored by the the rest of New York society which surrounds it. What is the most fascinating about this study is how this separate society, which subsists on social welfare programs and crime, is not only essentially invisible to the rest of the New York metropolitan area (and in some descriptions to low income upstate Troy) but how its denizens themselves remain isolated from the rest of the massive city that surrounds them.  While parallel populations exist in each of the city's 5 boroughs alone, they remain largely unfamiliar with each other, and the neighborhoods' residents are truly parochial.<br />This work depicts a culture whose rules and social mores are completely different from that of the predominant culture. Marriage is uncommon, men having multiple female partners -- often simultaneously, and beginning in their mid teens women bearing children from a number of men.  Despite this deviance from the morality of the rest of society, abortion is rare and distinctly frowned upon.  What is described is a nomatic culture with single parent families led by women continually moving from apartment to apartment, and from city to city, in pursuit of habitable housing, more favorable cost of living conditions on fixed welfare incomes, and proximity to the favored incarcerated fathers of some of their children.<br />LeBlanc is a sensitive yet objective observer.  While the people she depicts are sad, they are largely kind, very much human, and clearly the victims of society.  Our lack of familiarity with this cohort of our fellow citizens speaks volumes about the character of our society.  This is an eye opening and important study.	2003-04-03
US	51688225	R29A4PFXCY7BT0	0262182106	539335409	The Invisible Heart: An Economic Romance	Books	5	38	38	N	N	This might convert Marx	This is a very creative, and downright brilliant book.  It very palatably presents free market economic theory in a sweet, engaging, and endearing tale. <br />Were I a high school teacher or a college instructor teaching an entry level economics course this would be a book that I would definitely require -- it outlines fundamental economic concepts in a practically fashion easily understood by the &quot;lay&quot; person.  Additionally, it presents a perspective that those left of center (such as myself) are compelled to respect, even if they are philosophically not in agreement.<br />Besides its educational merits, this is simply a touching novel that keeps you committed, and makes you feel warm and satisfied finishing it.  A reader completed devoid of any interest in economics whatsoever would find this an interesting and worthwhile read (and end up better educated despite himself).	2003-01-13
US	51688225	R3VJSQ7KY4768R	1893224740	411398373	When You Ride Alone You Ride with Bin Laden: What the Government Should Be Telling Us to Help Fight the War on Terrorism	Books	5	19	24	N	N	Truly patriotic	Maher shows no hesitation in proclaiming his constitutional right to criticize our government and policies in the exercise of genuine patriotism.  In so many words he is yelling at the American frogs to stop being so stupid and complacent and to jump out of the pot as the heat is clearly increasing and we clearly risk being boiled alive.<br />The historical allusions, metaphors, and ironies of this collection of essays are creative and brilliant.  Throughout them he lampoons the empty promises of the government and corporate sector (aren't they one?), the deliberately misleading finger pointing, and its baldly obvious lies designed to promote corporate wealth and to divert attention from the real causes of the world's rage against the United States.  However, he doesn't just take shots at the government and industry, he lays the blame appropriately on our compliance in a vapid, self centered culture which chooses to remain blind to the ramifications of gross overconsumption of fossil fuels, and our military policies to keep them cheap for our convenience.  He points out our obliviousness to our disproportionate domination and waste of many of the world's other resources while people starve, freeze, and die of poor health.<br />However, Maher's rant is alleviated, and his love of country and patriotism are illustrated by his noting the hypocracy of much of the rest of the first world's criticism of the US domination  over things such as alleged \\"cultural imperialism\\", which he accurately dismisses as inaccurate as well as emanating from clear jealousy.  He observes how the US chooses in its own, perhaps inconsistent way, to act as a more humane imperial power than the other nations that over history have held this distinction.  He also notes, that much of the hate for the US by the first as well as third world is largely due to our self absorption, and complete disinterest in other peoples.<br />This is a strong dose of truth, \\"sweetened\\" by Maher's scathing but delightful sardonic wit.  However, it will surely only appeal to those who already agree with his position.	2003-01-10
US	51688225	R18T5BFSYTAHF7	0316610895	707616502	The Power of the Dog : A Novel	Books	5	42	43	N	N	Tense, harsh, twisted, powerful	This is an incredibly well crafted novel.  A brilliant, complex tale of complicated, twisted but plausible characters, fraught with tension.  Savage masterfully employs foreshadowing and understatement throughout the novel; it clearly requires a re-reading to appreciate them all, as well as its many metaphors.  This tale is so powerful that in the first read you are compelled to proceed reading rather than to slowly savor it.  After having finished it, I found myself repeatedly rereading the impeccable last 15 pages -- the perfection of the novel's end literally takes your breath away.<br />It is rare that one comes across a novel as well written as this:  impressive, satisfying, masterful.	2003-01-08
US	51688225	R1KLWVW9X4WK5Z	158648138X	14000679	Pipe Dreams: Greed, Ego, and the Death of Enron	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Ali Baba and His Thieves	Okay, we all knew that the Enron scandal was noxious, and we knew that there was substantial governmental complicity.  However, the degree of bald faced corruption and theft pervading all aspects of the commodities and trade professions and the extensive government acquiescence, if not compliance, which Bryce describes stagger the imagination. <br />This is a thorough, well documented study of the Enron scandal, from the corporation's early origins.  While extensive, and depressing, Bryce alleviates it with sardonic depictions of the unvarnished vulgarity of the senior management feeding at the Enron trough.  <br />Bryce is fair in that he gives the Clinton Administration its due for facilitating the depradations of Enron; however, while resisting the effort to go for the jugular, he makes it clear that the greatest beneficiaries of Enron's largesse were Republicans, particularly the two Bush administrations.  He reserves most of his vitriol for Senator Phil Gramm and his wife, who were undeterred at any time by ethical concerns about their undisguised conflicts of interest in judgements on regulations benefitting the corporation that was filling their pockets.<br />Bryce provides a number of tutorials on accounting and trade and commodity practices that help the \\"lay\\" person understand how the transgressions were allowed to occur and mushroom. Reading \\"Pipe Dreams\\" you wonder first why the many members of the Enron management aren't in prison, much less the obscenity of their being able to loot the company and retain their obscene fortunes.  It is incredibly disillusioning, and you are left with an increased sense of impotence, yet your outrage is alleviated by Bryce's biting sarcastic wit.	2003-01-02
US	51688225	R11I37RZ4IUD87	0375507345	366189909	No Way to Treat a First Lady	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Cute, but transparent and predictable	I am a true fan of Buckley's satire -- when he is at his peak.  I found \\"Thank You for Smoking\\" a brilliant and savage lampoon of lobbiests.  And, while not quite as sharp, I loved his skewering of political pundits in \\"Little Green Men\\".  Buckley is also quite capable of depth as illustrated in both his widely differing works \\"Steaming to Bambooza\\" and \\"Wry Martinis\\".<br />While \\"No Way to Treat a First Lady\\" is cute and prompts some belly laughs, it represents a return by Buckley to the safely mocking satire of a Washington insider and is reminiscent of his earlier \\"White House Mess\\".  This novel has more bite, and is considerably more irreverent, as it is a thinly veiled satire of the Clinton Administration.  Buckley is considerably more cautious, and less entertaining, when he \\"mocks\\" Republican administrations.  In all fairness, however, the Clintons did provide limitless opportunities and come by ridicule honestly.  Yet, Buckley was actually quite kind in his depiction of the Hillary Clinton-like protagonist.  His depiction of the total absence of conscience, ethics, or morality on the part of stereotypic high priced trial lawyers is delightfully savage, if in likelihood probably depressingly true.<br />This is a light fluffy novel perfect for a long plane ride, or for an easy read in the hot sun lying by the pool.  Entertaining, but definitely not vintage Buckley.	2002-12-23
US	51688225	R2L2LIU87BZQGG	0375727752	168722923	Honky	Books	3	5	10	N	N	A family choosing to be poor	\\"Honky\\" is an engaging, very readable, and pretty interesting story of a white family living in largely African American, lower east side Manhattan public housing projects.  Accordingly, Conley, now a professor at NYU, has a perspective different from that of other white academics, and an appreciation for, as well as greater sensitivity to the poor African American subculture.<br />The story is fascinating in describing how Conley's mother navigated and manipulated the NYC housing and education bureaucracies to extract the maximum opportunities available through the system.  Of course, it is intuitively obvious reading Conley's memoir that her success was primarily due to her being white, and by virtue of her greater education than the average African American born into such circumstances who is compelled to rely upon them by necessity, rather than by choice as was the case with Conley's family.<br />\\"Honky\\" is valuable in terms of its descriptions of the daily culture shock that Conley experienced from a poor home environment to the middle class milieu of the the elementary and high schools in which his mother managed to have her children placed.  While sad to read about how he came to be ostracized and occasionally roughed up neighborhood black kids as he grew older, it was difficult to be entirely sympathetic recognizing that this was a transitory period in his family's life, and entirely due to his parents' choice.<br />This book is definitely worth reading; however, it is difficult not be left with a sense of irritation and injustice over Conley's parents' choices for their own convenience, and at their children's and the public's expense.	2002-12-23
US	51688225	R2AULYT1KUC872	0805056645	856506400	Are You Somebody?: The Accidental Memoir of a Dublin Woman	Books	2	12	16	N	N	A Brutal Self Examination	Based upon the subtitle \\"The Accidental Memoir of a Dublin Woman\\" and that fact that she is a writer for the \\"Irish Times\\", in addition to favorable critical reviews, I was very interested in reading this book.  However, nothing prepared me for the raw, depressing, and somewhat pathetic autobiography O'Faolain has written.<br />What is redeeming about this memoir is it's reflection of the plight of women, and particularly Irish women, in decades from from the 1940s through the 1970s.  And despite how unrelentingly depressing most of the recollections contained are, it does reflect a gradual emergence of hope for the condition of women as the 20th century drew to a close.<br />For anyone Irish, or of Irish extraction, O'Faolain's depiction of Irish society and culture is bitter, distasteful, and quite ugly. Essentially she paints an alcohol soaked people where male callousness towards women resulted in the neglect as well as overt abuse of children. While evidently there is some truth in what she depicted, I question it being a thorough portrait of the Irish as a whole. She admittedly depicts her parents as \\"bohemian\\", and her experiences seem to largely describe the conditions of the economically marginal. However, later in the work her pleasure in discovering rural Irish society and culture in her middle age are uplifting.  Additionally, her observations on the Balkanization of Northern and Southern Ireland, to the point that a Dublin woman knows little of the state of Catholics in the North, is insightful.  She seems to take umbrage at the distaste reflected in the remarks about Ireland and the Irish by some Americans and English.  However, based upon her own depictions one is left with the sense that she feels that the Irish deserve the world's pity rather than distain.<br />O'Faolain seems to savor wallowing in self contempt, rather than acknowledging her abilities or achievements.  Clearly she would not have attained her educational credentials and professionalexperiences without being bright, some hard work, and  occasional sober, positive life experiences. This work comes across as more of a confession; a \\"mea culpa\\" rather than a memoir.  While brutally honest, and probably accurate, I didn't find it a particularly rewarding read.	2002-12-03
US	51688225	R1YPI8GVCFUCBC	0385722370	318631306	Up in the Air	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Surrealistic farce and apt social commentary	While the initial reviews of this when it came out in hard cover last year were lukewarm, seeing it (appropriately) in the airport and in paperback, I decided to pick it up.  The reviews prepared me for a farce featuring a warped, disfunctional, and somewhat pathetic lonely guy.  However, that is a distorted underestimation/misinterpretation of this work.  Kirn has created substantive, thought provoking lampoon of the ongoing incessant, cynical, and invasive science of the study of consumer behavior and the marketing that it supports.<br />Being a frequent traveller, I found this both amusing and depressing.  It reinforced both my cynicism about the service industry, and my dissatisfaction with much of it. <br />Beyond the social message, this is a novel with which frequent fliers will identify, and they will view Kirn's depiction of the quotidian existence of business travel as representing their ongoing plight, and grind.	2002-11-25
US	51688225	R1QNY8W1BYUHSB	0609605917	758339585	Portrait of a Burger as a Young Calf: The Story of One Man, Two Cows, and the Feeding of a Nation	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Thorough, scholarship, thought provoking, spiritual	When I started this book I imagined another informative expose reinforcing my concerns about the eating of beef. However, what I found was a thorough, thoughtful, and engaging study of the dairy and beef industries, in which the author went to painful lengths to give fair consideration to all sides on the issue.<br />Lovenheim's book is not sensationalist muckracking. While I think his observations would reinforce many of the worries of those concerned about eating beef, or drinking milk induced by bovine growth hormone, the most striking part of this work is the otherwise overlooked consideration of cows as living creatures. I was struck by his descriptions of the cows' actual sense of community, their adaption and response (or seeming lack thereof) in the face of continual danger; that in fact they aren't quite the dumb animals we have been raised to believe they are. Lovenheim makes you consider that these animals are different than plants, and that you are making a conscious decision to take a living feeling creature and choosing to process it as a commodity entirely out of your own dietary choice and convenience.<br />The author's sensitivity, compassion, and admiration for those engaged in the various aspects of the dairy and beef industries is admirable. He also gives ample consideration to the historical place of beef in our diets, frequently alluding to his own Jewish spiritual tradition.<br />This is a substantive, worthwhile, and quite \\"readable\\" work. I highly recommend it; I was pleased to have picked it up, and felt I had both learned and acquired greater sensitivity as a result of completing it.	2002-11-20
US	51688225	RQMRL3Q5OBDQP	0060012781	86601151	A Cook's Tour: Global Adventures in Extreme Cuisines	Books	3	9	15	N	N	the Gonzo Gourmand	Well, Bourdain has admittedly decided to succumb to the television siren, as documented in this entertaining journal of his recent travels.  While I was not a great fan of \\"Kitchen Confidential\\", having been prepared for his overpowering self confidence by that book, I found this an interesting and more enjoyable read.<br />Bourdain desperately wants to portray himself as the bad boy of chefs; sort of a chef's Mick Jagger, compared with a Paul McCartney, or perhaps a Peter Pan goes bad.  He seems to define badness by the extent to which he is willing to engage in self destructive behavior:  excessive consumption of alcohol (actually the anecdotes are nauseating just to read about), chain smoking, and blithely consuming food prepared in conditions of questionable hygiene.  And that is before you consider what he eats.  <br />Bourdain also definitely wants you to know he is macho; he may be a chef, but absolutely nothing effete about him; he goes to great lengths to demonstrate this; in fact it almost seems his life quest.  He proves this by what he is willing to eat, e.g.:  the still beating heart of a cobra, potentially toxic blowfish, and by distain for vegetarian cuisine, which he here again not only defines as inferior, but by implication effeminine.  Hmmm.  And, he goes into the dark heart of Khmer Rouge controlled Cambodia, getting off on firing semi-automatic weapons, in uncomfortable, sleazy,  and decidedly hazardous circumstances.  I didn't quite get how this related to his quest for new culinary experiences, but damn he's bad!<br />The descriptions of Vietnam and its cuisine were perhaps the best part of this work.  It was interesting to have his descriptions of eating in France refute the suggestion that the French are the world gold standard in cuisine, and his journal of his experiences in Mexico were warm and enticing.<br />I settled on this in the airport when seeking an appropriate diversion during long flights.  In this book Bourdain has mellowed a bit in his intense distain for opinions contrary to his; however, be prepared for a self congratulatory celebration of excessive consumption and self destructive habits as an art form.	2002-11-19
US	51688225	R2OSX9837TU9QA	0674006054	772734743	Hungering for America: Italian, Irish, and Jewish Foodways in the Age of Migration	Books	5	28	29	N	N	The Predominant Allure of America	This is a trully intriguing work about three parallel immigrant cultures, and how hunger for an adequate diet was one of the predominant incentives to them for immigration.  What makes this study so interesting is how the importance of food manifested itself so differentially among these separate groups once in the United States based upon the histories of the country of origin.<br />Being of Irish extraction I learned for the first time, definitively, why unlike my Italian, Jewish, and Latino friends no Irish \\"ethnic\\" foods (other than soda bread) were part of my background.   And, it helped me to better understand the critical, but differing, importance of food in the Jewish and Italian cultures I grew up along side.<br />Readers should be advised that this is a serious academic work, one which would be an appropriate college history text. Therefore, the introduction and summary chapters will seem dry and...\\"academic\\" to those seeking a purely recreational read.  I advise them to walk on the edge and learn something; it's well worth the time invested.	2002-08-29
US	51688225	R29ZFS3FDMW1R5	0679751319	190478568	Dead Man Walking: The Eyewitness Account Of The Death Penalty That Sparked a National Debate	Books	5	22	31	N	N	Grace, elegance, courage	While the manner in which the story is presented is quite readable and engaging, the strength of this work is in the important and poignant experiences and issues the author presents.  Reading this book one is struck by the incredible depth and character of the author.  She is clearly a person of profound integrity and compassion, yet does not convey the impression of being judgemental nor saccarine.<br />Prejean confronted the issue of capital punishment by embracing the situations of two of the least sympathetic situations perhaps possible:  the men executed had committed heinous, unforgiveable crimes, ones that are alone horrifying to read about.  However, in an incredibly objective fashion the author presents their atrocities in the context of the circumstances of these mens' lives which, while it does not in any way mitigate their crimes, does make their predilection for commiting them perhaps more comprehensible.<br />Besides the fortitude Prejean demonstrated while supporting these men through their executions, including witnessing them, one is moved by her character in embracing the need to engage in dialog with the relatives of the victims of these mens' crimes.  She shows incredible compassion in presenting their circumstances and suffering as well.  While opposed to capital punishment Prejean fairly represents the perspective of those demanding vengance.  The author also, in a very subtle fashion presents how the criminal justice system is cynically manipulated for political purposes, and the immense economic cost involved in executing prisoners.<br />This is powerful, moving, and thought provoking.  &quot;Dean Man Walking&quot; is a very important work.	2002-08-22
US	51688225	RVRT9179ZUEK9	0399147551	338981258	Secrets of the Tsil Cafe	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fun, Obtuse, Endearing	This is a warm, engaging, and eccentric novel, which gourmands will find captivating.  Its focus on a Southwestern cafe, of uncompromising native American cuisine is set in the seemingly unlikely &quot;wonder bread&quot; mid-west.  Averill devotes little time to the possible disconnect with the cafe's surrounding environment but focuses upon the clash of indigenous peoples and cuisines with European incursions, and the inevitable fusion of both.<br />Philosophical, insightful and profound, albeit in a very subtle fashion.  The author makes many worthwhile observations and statements about the encounter of these two cultures without being pedantic, and while having fun.  This is a delightful novel, one which I thoroughly enjoyed reading.	2002-08-21
US	51688225	REGVX62MHOYA0	0375401318	726865659	Breaking Clean	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A woman made of granite	After finishing this it was difficult to determine which I admired more, the author or the memoir she produced.  This is a spare, beautifully crafted book that is totally engrossing, and evocatively depicts the patrilineal culture, and suppression of women (and their typical acquiescence) in traditional subsistence ranch culture.<br />Based upon the reviews, I anticipated a work detailing her escape from an oppressive relationship.  Instead, she focuses on depicting the struggle to fulfill her own identity in light of the culture and circumstances from which she emerged.  I was impressed by the compassion and restraint Blunt exercised in succinctly why she ended her marriage to permit pursuit of her own individuality.  The memoir is touching as it balances nostalgia with a brutally honest description of the grueling conditions of her life in Eastern Montana.<br />This is a very fine work; I am throughly impressed and recommend it highly.	2002-08-20
US	51688225	R1DETG8AVF8LLF	0380732807	591957331	I Left My Back Door Open: A Novel	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Everything but the kitchen sink	\\"I Left My Back Door Open\\" is a formulaic, positive self image novel, which seems to attempt to cover every current social issue in a hip progressive way.  The protagonist, Dee Dee, comes across as a \\"Mother Earth\\" type of character and contends with almost every conceivable issue:  incest, bluimia, obseity, foster parents, bi-racial children, sexual harassment, teen sex, adultery, abortion, divorce -- whew!  Dee Dee is represented as a font of wisdom as she dispenses advice to all she encounters, is devoid of prejudice, and watches her weight (though eventually reconcils to the positive aspects of being full figured) and contends with the after effects of childhood trauma while searching for Mr. Right.<br />Besides the plethora of social issues the novel attempts to address, the dialog is rife with cliches and stale wit, and reads like a sit com television show.  It all ends on a positive note with Dee Dee finding Mr. Magic and one is left to assume is happy ever after.  Yawn.  It was work struggling to finish this novel -- I recommend that you spare yourself the effort.	2002-08-19
US	51688225	R1EL94PLA8H4KH	0375505385	784510723	The Count and the Confession: A True Mystery	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Depressing and glutted with detail	I suppose if you enjoy legal mysteries rife with detail, you would enjoy \\"The Count and the Confession\\".  Initially, I found it engaging and was committed until about half way through.  However, as I continued to read the story continually slowed and I came to feel as if it failed to progress; reading it became reminiscent of treading water.  However, in light of the situation in question perhaps that is the sense of frustration and hopelessness that the author attempted to convey.<br />The characters involved are bizarre, disfunctional, and mostly unattractive.  Their behavior is illogical as well as distasteful.  With the initial titillation of the novel you look beyond their characteristics to learn the outcome; however, as you become mired in the obsessive, tedious details you begin to question why you are devoting so much time to reading this sordid tale.  I found the characters almost universally unsympathetic and quite frankly it is nauseating; I began to want to take a shower.<br />It is interesting (albeit exceedingly depressing and discouraging) to read about the depredations of the criminal justice system -- to see evidence of how, in order to get a conviction, some police officers will deceive and manipulate, and once a conviction has been reached the state will do all in its power to thwart any attempts to find that decision in error.<br />At the end of the work you still don't know whether the chief protagonist is guilty, and frankly I no longer cared.  I wouldn't recommend this unless you had a particular interest in the workings of the legal system.  It is hardly a rewarding or uplifting reading experience.	2002-07-18
US	51688225	R1EY6602YIEH9V	0375413634	70225414	The Emperor of Ocean Park	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Murder and intrigue among the talented tenth	I was drawn to this novel as the plot is centered on the black bourgeoise.  It is very long, and takes some commitment, but Carter is a skilled storyteller with a complex, creative imagination.  Furthermore, it offers an interesting view of academia and the legal profession.<br />\\"The Emperor of Ocean Park\\" is perhaps most successful in depicting how two parallel, albeit unequal, societies exist in the United States -- described by the author as the \\"darker\\" and \\"paler\\" nations.  His depictions of the massive egos and prevalent clay feet in academia are on target. Also, he also offers a number of interesting, and ironically amusing observations on unconscious condescension of white liberals interacting with blacks and the continued predominance of racism, albeit often subconscious.<br />This probably would have been a better book if 200 pages shorter.  Additionally, after careful and exceedingly gradual progression of the mystery four fifths of the way through the novel it accelerates in an increasingly bizzare and implausible fashion in the end.  Carter does offer some important observations on the importance of family and personal relationships, and the impact upon them and happiness caused by the quest for success.<br />I thought this was a very worthwhile novel.  Perhaps not the greatest literature, but the insights it offers on the top tier of black society, de facto segregation, academia, the legal profession, and the value of life make it a good investment of time.	2002-07-16
US	51688225	R4EIGOL1IV1DD	1573228281	454004836	A Gesture Life: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Dark, melancholy, profound	&quot;A Gesture Life&quot; reinforces my impression that Lee is one of the most gifted American writers of this generation.  His skills as a wordsmith are awe inspiring, which he employs to offer profound insights on the mores and prejudices of society.<br />This novel takes patience to get into.  The hesitant and painfully careful and thorough manner in which he depicts the narrator's voice are of course part of his portrayal of a Japanese immigrant who, being raised in Japan of ethnic Korean extraction, has lead a life of striving to acclimate and maintain a favorable, and low profile.  However, as the novel progresses the reader discovers that this unobtrusiveness is intentional as well as cultural and is concerted to atone for barbarism in which the protagonist was involved.<br />The work is rife with foreshadowing, metaphors and irony.  It focuses on a ugly, sordid aspect of the Japanese Imperial Army as a foil for societal hypocracy and resulting irony in suburban New York.  Lee employs a Dickenseque technique in painting this fictional memoir that I found in a number ways reminiscent of &quot;A Christmas Carol&quot;.<br />This is a dark and often depressing work. It should be taken up with the thought of reading something profound, important, and masterfully written.	2002-07-01
US	51688225	R3NL5HTCHRJP95	0374281971	566394281	The City of Your Final Destination	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Warm, complex, satisfying	This is one of the most satisfying novels I have read in quite awhile.  Cameron has created a well developed, complex and somewhat esoteric plot with rich characters.<br />The author's imagination takes you from Kansas to Uruguay to New York and incorporates German Jewish,Iranian, Thai, French, and American emigres.  All are escaping war, exploitation, their own sordid pasts or some combination.  He depicts each with warmth and compassion and while a seemingly unlikely combination he presents them in an entirely plausible fashion.  Cameron's adept use of foreshadowing and metaphor are a joy to experience.<br />This is such a fine book that I look forward to re-reading it when I find myself in need of a reliable, welcome diversion.	2002-06-28
US	51688225	R1KWBXLASJYFH2	0060932813	617082594	Waiting: The True Confessions of a Waitress	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Dry, insightful, interesting	I began this book with the expectation that it was going to be vicariously entertaining by being riddled with war stories from a veteran waitress.  It is entertaining, but in an understated and often ironic fashion.  Ginsberg's \\"True Confessions\\" is largely an introspective memoir and reads like a sociological study.  Frequently, I found myself reminded of Bourdain's \\"Kitchen Confidential\\", perhaps because the territory both covered overlaps, though this hardly an expose.<br />The book has more than its fair share of humorous recollections presented in an unvarnished fashion -- but none will make you laugh out loud.  \\"True Confessions\\" is largely a defense of the reasons to endorse working as a \\"server\\" and observations on the behaviors and personalities of restaurant patrons.  Throughout the book Ginsberg takes offense over the proletarian pigeonholeing people do of waiters and waitresses.  Ironically, however, she doesn't do much to bolster the image with her passages about disfunctional personalities, commonplace alcoholism, and the prevalence sex literally in the work place among employees and patrons.  Her descriptions depict a profession that draws more than a fair share of bottom feeders, and the accounts of intimate relationships rather than being titillating instead make you want to take a shower.<br />From the perspective of learning more about a segment of society with whom we all personally interact on a daily basis, yet one  most perceive as a lower caste and keep at a distance, this is an interesting read.  Ginsberg makes many apt observations, but her writing is some what stilted and wooden, perhaps as a subconscious protest that being educated and a \\"server\\" aren't necessarily mutually exclusive.  Rather in than the category of humor, I'd shelve this book with Ehrenreich's \\"Nickel and Dimed\\"; something thought provoking and engaging that will hopefully heighten your sensitivity toward the working class.	2002-06-18
US	51688225	R5QMXJUV9QL5Y	0394528360	741344123	Master of the Senate: The Years of Lyndon Johnson III	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Masterwork of American History	Again, Robert Caro has demonstrated that he is among the pantheon of major American historians.  &quot;Master of the Senate&quot; is an impeccable added volume in his biography of Lyndon Johnson. <br />Caro provides us with a thorough and engaging history of the Senate as well as detailed and understandable exploration of the arcane protocols and oral tradition that govern it in order to frame and effectively represent Johnson as a senator.  While some reviews (e.g.:  in the New York Times) regarded this history of the Senate in the volume's first hundred pages as superfluous, it provides an essential context for appreciating Johnson's tenure for those who lack a working understanding of the workings and traditions of that body. Particularly interesting is Caro's description of how the design of the Senate has assured the South disproportionate influence in the direction of legislative branch throughout the nation's history.<br />While Caro describes an often vulgar, loathesome, cynical, protean (yet  brilliant) figure he also strives to present him in the most objective possible light, suggesting that Johnson was increasingly oriented to do good as he sought to enlist the support of, and represent, the nation as a whole.  It is clear that he was very sensitive to criticisms of the preceding volume &quot;Means of Assent&quot; and learned from the reaction, if in fact the criticism were at all valid. <br />The length of the work is initially daunting; however, Caro's skill as a writer matches his scholarship and this is another very readable work by this author, which kepts the reader engaged and committed.<br />I learned a great deal and felt that the time invested was very well spent.  For years I have anxiously awaited this continuation in Caro's study of Johnson; the gratification was well worth the wait.	2002-06-14
US	51688225	R1C8FD525AO69K	0670886939	928300055	Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII	Books	4	8	19	N	N	Sober, fair, and thorough	While the title suggests a sensationalist book riddled with salacious facts, \\"Hitler's Pope\\" is a serious, and well documented historical work.  Although the scholarship is solid, clearly Cornwell is striving to make a point, to the point of emphasizing and stretching some historical events in his effort to portray his subject as prejudiced and insensitive.<br />Actually, while the title suggests that Pius XII was a willing accomplace of Hitler, as logic would indicate this was clearly not the case, and is not the premise of the author.  He depicts Pius XII as so focused on the centralization of Catholic Church  power in the authority of the Papacy that he engaged in expedient measures that significantly facilitated Hitler's political advancement in Germany, which was then one of the most significant Catholic nations.  Piux as Cardinal undermined a vibrant Catholic political infrastructure in Germany to undermine the autonomy of the local (regional German) bishops and cardinals in return for greater influence in education, and the German government's willingness to abdicate any influence in the appointment of local church officials. <br />Cornwell does represent as being a cold, formal man of many prejudices and massive ego who sided on the side of conservative, repressive forces throughout the world.  As his power grew, and tenure as pope progressed he acquired an increasingly distorted view of his own abilities and (the author infers) increasingly saw all his behaviors as devinely inspired.  As he grew older, coupled with his isolation, he became increasingly eccentric.<br />\\"Hitler's Pope\\" does acknowledge that Piux XII was a pious, if politically duplicitous individual.  The work is not particularly balanced as it doesn't note the surely positive, constructive aspects of his papacy. Additionally, the author beat to death certain episodes with excessive details long after the point had been proven. In terms of it's explanation of the centralization of papal power, it is enlightening concerning the governance of the contemporary Catholic Church.  It depicts an increasing reduction of regional Catholic autonomy and disenfranchisement with tragic world wide consequences.	2002-05-30
US	51688225	R1XJVB27HQ3XWI	1565123492	684031059	Cuba Diaries: An American Housewife in Havana	Books	4	23	26	N	N	A distinctive, admittedly privileged perspective	Tattlin's &quot;Cuba Diaries&quot; are a distinctive insight into the effects of the Cuban revolution that pervade Cuban society from the top down.  Despite the unfortunate choice in title, I found this memoir of Tattlin and her family's Cuban sojourn fascinating. <br />The fact that Tattlin was allowed the opportunity to enjoy a distinctly privileged existence mingling at the highest levels of Cuban government and society is what is so illustrative about her recollections.  While her struggles and frustrations are insignificant in light of the plight of the average Cuban, they illustrate (as the author recognizes) how pervasive and severe the deterioration of the Cuban infrastructure has been to the point where no one, at any level, is insulated from it.  <br />&quot;Cuba Diaries&quot; is also noteworthy for the hypocrisy that it documents of the Socialist Revolutionary veterans who run the nation -- such as Castro's request for (and significant disappointment over the lack of) French wine at a dinner party, as well as the other specific, top shelf requirements his functionaries outline before he can be invited to dinner. Such expectations in the midst of the deprivations of the society as a whole are echoed in the author's experience with other government officials and reminiscent of Orwell's &quot;Animal Farm&quot;.<br />Tattlin clearly develops a respect and appreciation for the Cuban people and their culture, and the beauty of the island.  She recognizes the nation's decades long shortages have resulted in a parallel economy to circumvent a system that doesn't work,and has reduced many Cubans to seize occasional dishonest opportunities.  This is illustrated when she becomes angry with Americans exploited by Cubans who she feels are not in a position to pass judgement lacking the experience of the daily frustrations and struggles of Cuban society.<br />An engrossing, and informative book.  While it has an important message, it makes it with humor, understatementand irony -- it  is not preachy or pedantic.	2002-05-28
US	51688225	R3O3LY4VZC17HA	0609610031	300129040	Step Ball Change: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Warm, kind, uplifting	When an author's first novel is as wonderful as &quot;Julie and Romeo&quot;, the expectations bar is set quite high for any subsequent work. Once again Jeanne Ray has written a fine book and, while perhaps not quite as insightful and wise as her first novel, &quot;Step-Ball-Change&quot; is a thoroughly enjoyable reading experience.<br />Ray's style is understated, deadpan humor and she employs considerable irony.  Clearly speaking from experience she effectively depicts how a lifetime of experience provides a broader perspective and, often, results in less impetuous -- more rationale decisions.<br />The author evocatively (but not saccarinely) depicts the fundamental fulfillment that a family -- spouse, children, siblings -- represent, and how regardless of life's challenges they are ultimately the harbor to which we seek to return.<br />In comparison to &quot;Julie and Romeo&quot;, if &quot;Step-Ball-Change&quot; has flaws, however, they are in that it tends to be a bit too idealistic, and the lives of it's characters are a bit too easy and smooth -- relatively free from economic concerns they can fully endulge focusing on their emotional side.  Additionally, the ending was devoid of any complexity in that the angst of the many characters depicted I felt was resolved too neatly, completely and happily ever after.<br />I felt warmed after reading this novel.  While I didn't think conveyed as effective or &quot;profound&quot; a message as &quot;Julie and Romeo&quot;, it was still a wise and a definitely  entertaining diversion.	2002-05-16
US	51688225	R1H2W5XVVVGM4O	1582431167	969668639	Body Toxic: An Environmental Memoir	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sad, poignant, and poetic	While &quot;Body Toxic&quot; is an environmental memoir, it is debatable whether the accent should be placed on the term environmental, or on the term toxic.  In all probability it should be toxic, because that term is more apropos to the disfunctional maternal side of the family whose emotional problems, while apparently exacerbated by the environmental conditions Antonetta describes, predate them.<br />As the book starts, it is reminiscent of &quot;A Civil Action&quot;, and reader becomes caught up in the environmental devastation of what was a seemingly benign seaside vacation retreat.  However, the work deftly becomes more of a family memoir, periodically interwoven with descriptions of the environmental devastation of Ocean County New Jersey which, ironically her mother's family refused to recognize, just as they suppressed acknowledging their family's many aberrant behaviors and personalities.<br />While perhaps a trite comparison, the family reminiscences are reminiscent of the writing of Jamaica Kincaid in terms of the cadence, and occasions of repetition.  Perhaps this is no coincidence since Antonetta focuses on the family's Afro-Carribean roots (or perhaps I subconsciously looked for such a similarity).<br />This is an important, beautifly written, and bittersweet work.  I highly recommend it.	2002-05-08
US	51688225	RETSEA73E5WN8	1569472807	698922702	A Working Stiff's Manifesto: Confessions of a Wage Slave	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A cynical reconciliation with impotence	Despite what the title might suggest, \\"A Working Stiff's Manifesto\\" is hardly a proletarian call to arms.  This social commentary/memoir does live up to it's title in that it focuses on the fate of the average working \\"stiff\\" to continually tread water and the probability that there is little he can do to alter it.<br />The tone of this book is in harmony with Faludi's \\"Stiffed\\", Ehrenreich's \\"Nickle and Dimed\\", and Moore's \\"Downsize This\\".  There is little humor here, other than that derived from irony.   Levison's opinions have greatly enhanced credibility because they are based upon his own personal experiences shifting from from one low wage job to another struggling to get by.<br />The power of this work is in the irony it depicts.  He very effectively describes how hard work and loyalty are no longer of value to employers, and the average worker is callously treated and continually reminded that he is entirely expendible.  Workers are treated as if they have little intelligence and aren't worthy of dignity and respect; when initially enticed with courtesy and enthusiasm in all likelihood those lures are deceits employed to exploit or fleece them.<br />Levison simply presents his examples, which range from working in a \\"chi chi\\" Scarsdale gourmet grocery to an Alaskan seafood processor, in a straightforward, unembellished fashion.  His depiction of the absurdity of drug tests and employment questionnaires in light of the recruitment pool drawn by the salaries is one of the many great ironies highlighted by his anecdotes.<br />He devotes a substantial part of the book depicting the fishing and seafood processing industry in Dutch Harbor, Alaska.  His descriptions are interesting, and in some ways grimly reminsicent of \\"One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich\\".<br />Toward the end of the book he includes a somewhat inchoate description of the impact (or lack thereof) of the internet.  <BR>While he offers some apt and interesting observations, this segment comes asalmost a nonsequitur, and could have used more development.<br />Definitely an interesting read, with apropos observations and social commentary.  If you appreciate irony this will appeal to you; however, it is not an uplifting book, but hopefully one which will instill you with greater sensitivity to low wage workers, and compell you to clamor for greater social justice.	2002-04-23
US	51688225	R2DJTOZF1NQ95U	0060975059	948464496	French Dirt: The Story of a Garden in the South of France	Books	3	21	21	N	N	Warm reflections on an agrarian interlude	&quot;French Lessons&quot; is a warm memoir of the author's year long sojourn in a rural village in Southern France.  Unlike the recollections of other foreign visitors who have written of their experiences in France, Goodman gives scant attention to the region's food or wine.  <br />Goodman's tale is primarily spiritual -- the satisfaction he derives from communing with nature as a gardener, and his persistent efforts to gain acceptance and approval from this close knit, closed community of French farmers.  The book is reminiscent of Chris Stewart's &quot;Driving Over Lemons&quot; in the latter respect.<br />Goodman's passion about his gardening experiences does become a bit cloying, and is somewhat saccarine, with almost forced profundity.  A passage where he describes getting emotional over cutting bamboo, for example,  definitely makes your teeth hurt.  Although I derive a considerable amount of satisfaction from gardening myself, I found Goodman's anecdotes somewhat breathless and gushing, particularly his striving to &quot;measure up&quot; in the eyes of a helpful, friendly, apparently very strong 20 year old named Jules.<br />This is a pleasant book; however, I expected more, in light of the potential.  &quot;French Dirt&quot; is mostly a recollection of Goodman's spiritual journey devoting himself to a garden one summer.	2002-04-15
US	51688225	R1CS7DNYBTHL3X	0767904478	683753064	Wine and War: The French, the Nazis, and the Battle for France's Greatest Treasure	Books	4	32	32	N	N	France's most coveted treasure	This is an engrossing, and distinctive observation on one of the many impacts of World War II on both France and Germany. It is not simply a book about French wine, but a broader study of the impact of the German occupation upon French daily life.  What is fascinating is how much the Germans coveted French cuisine, and especially wine, and how gluttony inspired the Nazi government's quest to strip the French larder as part of spoils of war.  \\"Wine and War\\" does indicate what a highly regarded treasure French wine represents in Western culture.<br />This is a terrific read if you like wine or enjoy history (and is twice the pleasure for those, like me,  who appreciate both).  It is not a serious, scholarly history of the war, but instead a compilation of various anecdotes -- oral history being put into print.   From a historical perspective, what I found the most interesting was the author's indication of how the legacy of the harsh reparations extracted from Germany by France in World War I came back to haunt the French in terms of the German thirst for revenge in the Second World War.  There is an element of suspense throughout the book, in terms of the Germans possibly killing the goose that laid the golden eggs (though the reader already knows the outcome). However, the work manages to represent that beyond the greed and thuggery of some Germans, a number maintained a sense of humanity and long range vision regarding a people who would always remain their neighbors.<br />You won't learn alot about wine reading this book; you will learn more about history.  But what you will learn about French wine is what a covetted treasure this has regarded in any of the German-French conflicts, and what a critical part of French culture it represents.	2002-04-09
US	51688225	R2JTVFIAK0VVY9	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	5	42	55	N	N	Mea maxima culpa  And an overdue apology	For those of us left of center, the mendacity and injustice outlined in &quot;Blinded by the Right&quot; is no surprise.  What is shocking, however, is Brock's 180 degree shift in direction, full disclosure, and furthermore complete acceptance of responsibility.<br />The extent of his disclosure tends to strain the credibility of this memoir, as well as some excessive detail, e.g. the point is not enhanced by his recalling that he was sitting on a blue linen couch when he was advised about damning evidence concerning Clarence Thomas.  Additionally, there appears to be a some zeal, and no small amount of shadenfreude in his revelations about the many prominent and pivotal figures in the radical right.  However, the credibility is sustained by Brock's willingness to accept complete responsibility for his sins, and his acknowledgement of how hypocritical, loathesome, and entirely self serving his actions were.<br />I was disinclined to read this book after its very critical review in the New York Times.  However, Hendrick Hertzberg's review in the New Yorker intrigued me, because besides the reviewer's own credibility was his belief that this was a sincere apology, not just an expose.<br />This is a very important source of information in terms of revealing the means by which the radical right encumbered duly elected officials and thwarted the people's will, as well as their ruthlessness by engaging in outright fabrication for character assassination.  It is a critical read since many of these same people hold prominent positions in the current administration.<br />Fairness requires you to read this with a raised eyebrow, in light of what he confesses to having done in the past.  However, it is credible as little good in terms of self promotion could have motivated what he writes here.	2002-04-04
US	51688225	REX1DH3A3EFMV	1573225312	421221260	Native Speaker	Books	5	96	102	N	N	An American Tragedy	If you read a great deal, you recognize that only a few books are truly profound and will be regarded as noteworthy among those written in a particular era.  Having just finished &quot;Native Speaker&quot; I was both moved, and extremely impressed.  This is clearly one of the distinguished books of this generation.<br />Chang Rae Lee is clearly a man of acute depth and insights, and he eloquently represents distinctly different cultures, and the angst, disillusionment, and metamorphisis arising from survival that affects immigrants.  He also probes fundamental issues of family, loyalty, betrayal, and the question of what constitutes success.  While he employs Korean, and Korean American prototypes, his themes and issues are fundamentally human, but perhaps distinctly American.<br />Furthermore, Lee is a superb wordsmith and a beautiful writer, with a masterful command of the English language, which he skillfully and artistically, employs to convey his complex tale and profound concepts.<br />I was motivated to read this book when I read that this was the book that had been recommended by many as that which diverse, fractious, and iconoclastic NYC should claim as it's own in the trend for each of the nation's cities to focus on a book to read.  However, this is an important book for all Americans, as it trully speaks to the American experience.  I noted one review compared it to Ellison's &quot;Invisible Man&quot;.  While I think that it stands alone, if I were to compare it with other American classics they would instead be Dreiser's &quot;An American Tragedy&quot; and Richard Wright's &quot;Native Son&quot;.  I am very pleased that I chose to read this book; it is noble, touching, and important.	2002-03-21
US	51688225	R2Q36OZGNSTZ5A	0446604658	612130498	Lucky You	Books	5	5	6	N	N	the ultimate Hiaasen lampoon	Of the six \\"mysteries\\" I have read by Hiaasen, this novel best showcases his skills at satire and lampoon.  It is delightfully scathing and literally makes you laugh out loud as he skewers one ignorant, greedy, and or ugly group after another and highlights irony in his characteristically understated fashion.<br />In \\"Lucky You\\" Hiaasen again savages the venality of Florida developers and pervasive corruption of government agencies and politicans.  Again, this plot's central, most intelligent, and heroic figure is a woman, in this case she is African American.  Other distinctive components of this novel (clearly part of his ongoing crusade) ridicule white supremacy, the rabidly right Cuban emigre community, religious \\"scams\\", and marital infidelity -- basically ugly ignorance in general.  The scenes he depicts not only make you laugh out loud, but succumb to  uncontrollable giggles.  Hiaasen doesn't leave a stone unturned in this satire.<br />One of the understated themes is the feasibility of an \\"interracial\\" relationship when the two involved are bright well intentioned people, as this allows them to appreciate each other's essential integrity.  A heart warming theme that Hiaasen portrays in a fashion that doesn't make your teeth hurt.<br />God this is a hysterical book; the ignorance he portrays is  incredibly plausible, yet when cast in Hiassen's spotlight it actually becomes amusing.  Clearly part of his solution is to combat ignorance by mocking it; if you are of a similar mind you will love this book.	2002-03-14
US	51688225	R1KTKN9BRVL8NK	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	5	23	35	N	N	Righteous and &quot;on time&quot;	Thank you Michael Moore!  It is reassuring that someone still seems to have both a memory and a conscience.  Moore assures us that, yes indeed, people still are seething about the usurpation of justice that the last Presidential election represented and that, in fact, the Bush administration is cynically and egregiously exploiting the working poor, promoting environmental devastation, and aggravating the world's anger, loathing and fear of the United States.<br />However, he also admonishes democrats and &quot;liberals&quot; not to be complacent or sanctimonious, as their &quot;representatives&quot; are simply a more sanitizied, perhaps more palatable, version of the current Republicans.  Said representatives (e.g.:  former President Clinton) in a more warm and fuzzy fashion have perpetrated the same injustices against working Americans and the rest of the world and, in fact, work in tandem with the Republicans in following the direction of the corporate sector.<br />I have never before heard the plight and oppression of African Americans as succinctly and eloquently outlined by a Caucasian.  Moore outlines and points the responsibility clearly where it belongs -- to white American society.  The brutality and callous indifference he describes are chilling and shaming to read.<br />Moore also provides a fair and convincing case for Ralph Nader and the Green Party.  He certainly made a valid argument from my perspective, and I was disinclined heretofore to be very sympathetic in light of my interpretation of Nader's impact upon the last Presidential election.<br />At a time when the realities of our politicans' actions are being obscured by jingoism, a prolonged military side show, and cynical milking of the recent national tragedy we sorely need more figures like Moore to implore upon the national conscience.  Governmental policies in the interest of corporate greed are simply mean and wrong, and myopic in that they also sow the seeds for potential Armeggedon.<br />Moore employs absurdity, understatement, and deadpan humor to present his case in an entertaining style.  While the book may make those of us with sardonic, cynical humor occasionally guffaw at the ironies, what he describes is far from funny, it is tragic.	2002-03-13
US	51688225	R1U8R1VBOX636G	0609808982	299264177	Nappily Ever After: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Beauty: self esteem and come from within	Clearly this is a compelling book as for anyone even vaguely familiar with African American culture since the title is so provocative.  And in the plot hair both literally and as a metaphor represents a shackle for black women and a hurdle to be surmounted in achieving a sense of worth and self esteem.<br />The author's use of hair as a metaphor in depicting the lives of African Americans insightful and adept. From a literal perspective it is apt and often funny; however, always with an edge.  However, the focus of the novel is the predominant underlying theme that a sense of inner worth, and satisfaction are  essential and fundamental to beauty (as well as a broader definition of what represents beauty). <br />&quot;Nappily Ever After&quot; is touching and poignant in its representation that many African American women view beauty and success as being represented by securing one of the successful, dependable, (and seemingly rare) black men.  It's message is important and powerful in calling out to  women that they need to look no farther than within to determine the level of beauty and success they have attained; when they recognize this, then the beauty will be self evident to any others who are worthy of appreciating it.<br />Despite the important and eloquent themes, the protagonist's angst and self exploration are belabored to an excessive extent, and the book would have benefitted from editing in this regard.  Additionally, the book relied upon a &quot;the bad guy gets his deserves&quot; and the good (if occasionally misguided) characters all find happiness in the end.<br />A decent book, with important themes; however, the writing is not profound and this novel does not constitute great literature.  Instead, it is simply a nice book.	2002-03-01
US	51688225	R3KXD0X1IJOJD4	0670030295	360273792	Roscoe	Books	3	0	3	N	N	The underside of local politics	I absolutely loved Kennedy's original Albany trilogy (though, &quot;Ironweed&quot; is head and shoulders above the others).  That, and being a New York native and upstate denizen for many years, I have remained committed to reading Kennedy's subsequent works.  My impression remains that, following &quot;Ironweed&quot;, in his subsequent novels Kennedy has tried too hard to sustain the image of being a profound writer (though &quot;Ironweed&quot;, albeit unconsciously, is a profound work).  His history &quot;O Albany&quot;, however, was quite good. After the press hype for &quot;Roscoe&quot; I had my hopes up, yet after finishing it was underwhelmed.<br />&quot;Roscoe&quot; is an interesting, and primarily a quite plausible description of the political machinations of power brokers in a lesser burg.  Like Kennedy's other works, he tends to focus on describing the gritty lives of bottomfeeders; his descriptions of the local political leaders, however, quickly become caricatures.<br />Evidence of Kennedy trying too hard are his efforts at surrealism punctuating the book; they would be interesting and worth pondering if they substantively enhanced the plot; I don't think they do.  Additionally, for anyone at all familiar with the rigid caste system of upstate New York, the likelihood that the WASP upper crust would allow their holi poli Irish Catholic minions out of the shadows, much less risk their reputations in anyway socializing with them is totally implausible.  Kennedy goes even further and suggests an intimacy which is hard to comprehend (recreational flings, perhaps; substantive relations, hardly). The author suggests intermarriage between Jews and Catholics and then WASPs in post WW I era when such taboos didn't ease up until the '60's.  His story is further diminished by an unsavory element of incest that, while it makes the plot somewhat more complex, makes the reader feel weak and want to take a shower.<br />If you are originally from upstate New York, or very familiar with New York State politics, you might find this interesting.  I had hoped for something broader, more revealing, and with more bite.  While I can appreciate that Kennedy's vigorous efforts at metaphors probably reveal considerably more, I couldn't sustain the interest to reflect on them after putting the book down.	2002-02-25
US	51688225	R3QITSGLVW7WBO	0375411070	628573598	Basket Case	Books	3	4	5	N	N	fun but few belly laughs	I love Carl Hiaasen and have read most of his books.   They are perfect when you need a pick me up -- something fun, but with some substance and punch as well.  <br />&quot;Basket Case&quot; is entertaining, but most of it's vitriol and scathing humor is focused on the corporatization of journalism, with dramatically devastating results in terms of quality and public service.  As usual, Hiaasen makes some important points, and clearly his close up and personal experience are reflected in the plot.<br />This is a good plane, pool, or beach book.  The reader should be forewarned, however, that it lacks the same degree of righteous mockery (though not the mockery) of most of Hiaasen's other novels.	2002-02-23
US	51688225	R1QYKL214EG1OJ	067973256X	987936474	Samba	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A Social History of Black Brazil	Guillermoprieto is both a skilled writer and a serious scholar.  That combination makes this erudite, and exceedingly detailed study of the black underclass in Brazilian society both readable and engaging.  She employs an inductive approach, using the culture surrounding the Samba and Carnival in Rio as a base for exploring the status of blacks in Brazilian society and the many contradictions and ironies in light of their prevailing influence in all levels of Brazilian culture.<br />The story is fascinating and the author admirable, because in order to learn and effectively represent the culture of the Samba and black Brazilian society (which she pretty effectively demonstrates are in many ways largely synonymous) she not only joined a Samba club in order to participate in Carnival, but also moved into the favelas of Rio.<br />Guillermoprieto depicts the injustice of the blacks' fate in Brazil in a dispassionate, yet also very poignant and sympathetic manner.  She allows the compelling facts to represent themselves without embellishing them with personal assessments, which makes her writing that much more powerful.<br />This is really a great book:  a fascinating story about the complex organization and serious part of the Brazilian economy that the Samba and Carnival comprise, and a distinctive and holistic representation of black Brazilian society and the rest of that nation in its reflection.	2002-02-19
US	51688225	R1LU15RR6VO4LR	0312269587	268236099	Plane Insanity: A Flight Attendant's Tales of Sex, Rage, and Queasiness at 30,000 Feet	Books	3	47	61	N	N	Mildly amusing	Since misery likes company, I was interested in reading this as I fly a good deal.  Additionally, my philosophy is when things are incredibly tedious and frustrating the best tactic for maintaining your sanity is to mock absurdity and celebrate the outrageous.  <br />Based on the gushing recent review of this book in the New York Times, I eagerly anticipated an uproarious collection of \\"war stories\\" from the air.   I was again reminded, however, not to attach too much credence to reviews with the \\"New York Times\\" imprimatur. This is a very tame, and unfortunately pretty predictable collection of air line experiences, interwoven with whining about hard working stewards and stewardesses, under appreciated by the public and exploited by the airlines that employ them.  While initially the observations on the egos and cheapness of pilots were amusing the tune quickly rings flat by being overplayed.  There is a bit of cautiously expressed, very non-specific, worker frustration over corporate greed.  Yawn.<br />The book is entirely too safe, too politically correct, and too defensive about why Hester believes passengers should be satified with the food and service that they get. He is very careful not to go out on a limb or risk enough bite to compromise his position (so you kind of wonder to what extent his travel column is reliant on travel industry support). You get the sense that the flight servers view themselves as doing a favor to passengers who, as a whole, they regard as annoying, insufficiently docile, and underappreciative. <br />My sense was that the exceedingly boring chapter \\"The Mile High Club\\" discussing sex in the air was viewed as essential by the publisher to sell copies.  While I didn't expect (or what) graphic descriptions, I did anticipate anecdotes that were at least entertaining in terms of being unique and absurd.<br />I don't believe I laughed out loud once reading this.  While generally \\"okay\\", in light of the immense potential for such a book, this was a crushing disappointment.	2002-02-18
US	51688225	RFHIKU1ZQXBW4	006093090X	807655132	The Night Listener: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Melancholy, bittersweet, unsettling	This book had great interest for me in light of the press it has received for it's basis in a bizarre real life scenario involving several high visibility figures drawn in by its beguiling and tragic central characer.  Additionally, it marks a departure for Maupin whose previous works have been witty, and uplifting, despite underlying substantive, and occasionally heavy messages.  \\"The Night Listener\\" is a serious, thought provoking book.  It is also a genuine and somewhat disturbing mystery, and in that regard an ideal book for book group discussion.<br />Interestingly, the tragic alleged victim of pedaphilia (his existence at all becomes a mystery) who the recorder of the tale attempts to console, ends up serving as the therapist for an older gay man whose long term relationship has atrophied, and who is struggling with a painful, but polite separation, and increasing distance from his partner.  The story is insightful in revealing how well intentioned good efforts can actually emanate from primarily self serving motivations and needs.<br />The story would be complex, and thought provoking enough, if one did not already realize it is based upon actual circumstances.  That realization was unfortunately distracting as I read it; however, it also made what one might dismiss as an implausible and far fetched tale, in fact credible. And because it is reality based, the tale is that much more sad, and disturbing.<br />This one of those novels you will ponder for days after completing it, and with which you will associate current events.  In that respect it is a quite a fine book and a genuinely worthwhile investment of time.	2002-02-18
US	51688225	R3NZDYU85NR3FW	0316776963	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	4	9	13	N	N	A dark, sardonic, distinctive, and pleasantly warped	David Sedaris's humor clearly appeals to a distinctive taste.  Some times it is warped bordering on creepy (particularly in &quot;Holidays on Ice&quot;), but often his wry observations are very poignant.  What I particularly appreciate is his ability to laugh at himself.  He may poke fun at any and all, but he also doesn't take himself seriously.<br />Having really enjoyed &quot;Naked&quot; I was very disappointed by the critical reviews in the press for &quot;Me Talk Pretty One Day&quot;.  Generally, reviewers flayed him for being too caustic and harshly criticizing Americans abroad now that he is an ex-pat. <br />I am glad that I finally overcame my reluctance and read this book.  I did not find &quot;Me Talk Pretty&quot; at all divergent from his other works; in fact it is equally satisfyiing.  His wit here is consistently savage about the ignorant and rude, with an endearing appreciation of the quotidian and absurd. He continues to pugnaciously defend his right to an unhealthy habits, including tobacco and alcohol, and foods of dubious nutrition.  Of course, appreciating Sedaris the reader has to recognize that he recognizes what is wrong and self destructive about these things and that he is mocking himself.<br />Contrary to the prevailing opinion of the reviews (did they read the book or each other?) I didn't detect any sense that he has become a Francophile.  In fact, his French hiatus has served as a foil that has enhanced his perspective on the United States, and has made his observations more insightful and he seems, in his own twisted way, to be more appreciative of many things here.<br />I didn't enjoy every one of the essays; however, I didn't expect to either.  Overall I did enjoy the collection, and while occasionally a bit too odd, I do find Sedaris's distinctive, absurd, and mostly sage humor quite refreshing.	2002-02-18
US	51688225	RJH38F0YZGG81	0345401123	454724918	Your Blues Ain't Like Mine: A Novel	Books	3	5	8	N	N	An ambitious snapshot of the civil rights struggle	From a historical perspective this is a very interesting book, and a good synopsis of a segment of a number of significant issues in the civil rights era.  Campbell also effectively defines the essential economic causes underlying racial strife, and how the upper class has effectively employed racism to secure its own position.  <br />Scanning the reviews from around the nation, however, I also expected this to be great literature.  While it tells an important and noble tale, the characters, plot, and metaphors are far from extraordinary.  This is a very readable, interesting, and informative work, but any profundity is limited to what is depicted, not the literary prowess of the writer.<br />A decided weakness is the book's attempt to cover too much territory, and a regrettable \\"peaceable kingdom/cumbayah\\" conclusion where justice is on the horizon, and the evil get their just rewards.  Unfortunately life usually isn't that tidy, and evil often goes unpunished.<br />Readable, and a tale quite familiar to those who have studied the civil rights era -- I would particularly recommend it to those wishing to learn how civil society and the status of black Americans have been transformed since the fifties.	2002-02-14
US	51688225	RMN5AJVF1Q25Y	0452282950	609426348	The 25th Hour	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Repression, insecurity, jealousy, failure,and wry humor	This is a fine book.  Benioff portrays an ecclectic assortment of characters whose personalities, and interconnections are distinctively New York.  Where else would working class Irish, middle class Jews, Puerto Ricans, upper crust WASPS, and the Russian mob have reason to associate and become emmeshed in each others' lives?<br />This is tale is also a reflection of the current age, with it's depiction of upward striving, class barriers, unfulfilled promise, ephemeral wealth, and self destructive tendancies.  Benioff's metaphors are colorful, vivid, and thought provoking.  Yet this is all depicted with the ironic, sardonic humor characteristic of New York.<br />\\"The 25th Hour\\" is a splendid, very satisfying book.  I savored it completely.	2002-02-08
US	51688225	R1DUL8DHIVTCCI	0374100128	647099960	The Corrections	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Dark, naked, unsettlingly insightful	Regardless of the Oprah imbroglio, this is hardly lightweight or middlebrow reading.  This is a dark, complex, thought provoking, and somewhat unsettling novel.<br />It is a brutal and searing depiction of mid-west middle class life, reflecting the angst, inadequacy, and lack of fulfillment that many people have.  The irony in the distain which many adopt, turning their backs on their origins after attaining success was among the many depressing, yet accurate types of unattractive behavior represented.<br />\\"The Corrections\\" reflects the many ugly things about the lives of many seemingly normal mainstream people, and much of it represents a scathing indictment of mainstream mores.  As a reaction to such upbringing the characters it produces end up breaking many of \\"the established rules\\" as a consequence.<br />The novel incorporates a signficant surrealistic component, which highlights many of the underlying themes, but which also makes this work far more complex, and requires that it be carefully read to fully appreciate the metaphors.  Franzen's detailed knowledge of disparate areas, such as international commerce as well as the chemistry is daunting and vastly enhances the novel, as well as making it that much more complex.<br />This is a very thought provoking work; I think it would be ideal for book groups.	2002-01-30
US	51688225	R225L9WNJMJFC8	0684862743	197285450	George Bush, Dark Prince of Love: A Presidential Romance	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Absurd and splendid	Well, I knew from the title alone that I would love this book.  However, I had no clue that it would be as brilliant a lampoon as it is.<br />The plot focuses on how a woman who embodies all the victim's of George H.W. Bush comes fanatically loyal and obsessed with him.<BR>While exceedingly understated, this defines savage satire.  The irony is delicious and not at all overwrought; fortunately it is short as any longer and the humor would quickly transcend the point of diminishing returns. <BR> <BR>This is definitely dark, sardonic humor.  If you have a cynical bent, you will love this.	2002-01-24
US	51688225	R17SCDV4J0ANOX	0375411062	920214738	Stuffed: Adventures of a Restaurant Family	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A celebration of a family	It has been a while since I have read a book as warm and uplifting as this one.  The flyleaf for \\"Stuffed\\" is misleading; you initially think you are reading a book which will focus on the tribulations of a restaurant family.  However, while incorporating many recollections of the varied members of her family in the New York restaurant business, this transcends that guild. \\"Stuffed\\" celebrates a fascinating family, and radiates pride and love, while noting with humor the petty differences that kept family members apart.<br />This is a visit to a distinctively New York Jewish family and reflects the special closeness, unwavering love, and the paramountcy of family in that culture.  This is both a touching and an inspirational book.  You will feel better for reading it, and be left with quite an admiration for its quite admirable author.	2002-01-24
US	51688225	R351F4ZNO69523	0399147519	784516648	The Death of Sweet Mister	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The dark underside of society	Again Woodrell has written a brilliant, but gritty novel about the rural underclass.  He vividly depicts a strata of society that most readers are hardly aware of, if they know it exists.  Most of his characters are misfits or damaged goods, the type of people you would choose to sit far away from in the movie theatre, or hurriedly walk past on the sidewalk.<br />The cast of &quot;The Death of Sweet Mister&quot; are losers who live in a fantasy world and compensate for their dead end, poverty existence with alcohol, cigarettes, drugs and elicit sex.  Reading Woodrell's lifelike and telling depiction of their existence leaves you feel like showering and brushing your teeth.<br />This novel's plot seems predictable, yet is full of a number of deft, unanticipated twists.  A very worthwhile read, but be prepared for the fact that the characters break most of the rules.	2001-12-18
US	51688225	R2R409BO1SDCUV	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fascinating and Dickensesque	While interested in the topic I resisted reading this book for a long time because it seemed so hyped that I imagined it to be a mainstream appealing heart wrencher.  Well, the kudos this novel has received are amply deserved; it is a fascinating and rivetting book.  <br />Before reading this I knew virtually nothing about geishas and their role in Japanese society.  In telling his tale Golden introduces readers to both a distinct niche in antibellum World War II Japan as well as that culture's social mores.<br />Besides providing an ethnography of sorts, this is a engrossing and satisfying novel, very reminiscent of works by Dickens such as &quot;Great Expectations&quot; and &quot;Oliver Twist&quot;.  Both men and women will find this an engrossing and satisfying read.	2001-12-05
US	51688225	RM2N3X7EW38SJ	0380713802	280023223	Neither Here nor There: Travels in Europe	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Sophomoric, but fun	So far this is my favorite of Bryson's travel books, though, in some ways it is also his most eccentric.  This memoir represents a return visit to Europe, when a more affluent, middle aged journalist Bryson retraces his earlier trail through Europe as a carefree youth.  Besides his characteristic sardonic observations, his descriptions include a number of nostaglic reminiscences and disappointment as his recollections are viewed through rose colored glasses.<br />You have to have tolerance for Bryson's use of the various venues as a means of launching into sophomoric tangents reflecting on having lusted after beautiful young women, or puerile comments on digestion and bathroom habits that provide too much information.<br />His descriptions are the usual mix of admiring and scathing; he clearly was enraptured with Southern Italy and less than impressed with Brussels and much of Belgium.  His stereotypes of the various nationalities while often funny are outrageous and savage.<br />This is a good airplane, pool side, stuck somewhere book.  It keeps you interested and amused.	2001-10-17
US	51688225	R6DIQMJCQTGJ4	0375726624	90327779	Newjack: Guarding Sing Sing	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Courageous -- an insightful, needed perspective	Conover's effort is truly daunting; that he was willing to subject himself for a grueling year to the physical and emotional hazards of working as a prison guard is beyond impressive.  The result is an informed study of the penal system, which offers insights on subculture of corrections officers and the facilities where they work. <br />After the spate of works sympathetic to the plight of the incarcerated, such as those about Mumia Al-Jamal, and Hurricane Carter, this work fills a needed void.  As this book attests, not all guards are brutal and not all prisoners blameless victims.  This work reminds us that many, if not most, of those incarcerated did something wrong, and that prisons exist to protect society.  However, it also notes that prisons do not &quot;correct&quot; but exist to separate &quot;deviant&quot; individuals from society.  <br />Conover does not attempt to gloss over the behavior of &quot;corrections officers&quot;; he convincingly conveys how prison guards need for daily survival in a menacing environment results in occasional brutality, and the intentional ignoring or violation of many rules.  <br />By education Conover is an anthropologist and as a result this work is a holistic study of the history, and &quot;evolution&quot; of American correctional facilities, as well as an evocative depiction of their current state.  While a &quot;scholarly&quot; work, it is gritty, readable, and engaging.  Additionally, he refrains overstating his points with superfluous &quot;sensational&quot; anecdotes.<br />Conover describes a sad, but necessary element of society; one that is unsuccessful in many respects, and which warrants reconsideration and overhaul.  This is a well written, and serious work.	2001-10-10
US	51688225	R1L1S34RRKIOPP	0446603422	396091677	Stormy Weather	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Absurd, fun, on target	I guess Hiaasen's works do seem to sound alike; this one even appears to be a sort of sequel to &quot;Strip Tease&quot; as it includes the eccentric ex-governor Skink and his devoted State trouper pal Jim Tile, who are featured in that novel.  Knowing this, however, I was looking for something with some bite to make me laugh and once again Hiaasen didn't disappoint me.<br />The plot of &quot;Stormy Weather&quot; thoroughly lambasts developers, real estate and mobile home salesmen, and the governmental agencies that exist to &quot;regulate&quot; them.  Hiassen is entirely cynical and savage in his depiction, which spares no group in its scathing satire.  Ex-governor &quot;Skink&quot; again serves as the noble savage committed to a Quixotic effort to avenge trepidations against nature and basic human decency.<br />Once you have read a few of Hiaasen's works, the initial shock value is diminished.  Nonetheless this made me repeatedly laugh out loud, at one point in uncontrollable giggles.<br />This isn't great literature, but if you have a sardonic sense of humor and want to be entertained, this is ideal.  A perfect plane, beach, single dining in a restaurant book.	2001-10-02
US	51688225	R2X5URZC58CCE0	0671785443	297039800	No News at Throat Lake: In Search of Ireland	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a man who can laugh at himself	This is a fun, enjoyable book. Donegan is a self effacing man, but one who has an an ecclectic, and noteworthy series of achievements for a young man -- rock musician, golf writer, and journalist for a internationally known newspaper.  Having visited Donegal and been charmed, he decides to abandon his mainstream life in Britain and embrace bucolic rural Ireland.<br />Of Irish extraction, in typical Irish fashion, he mocks his own inadequacies and pitfalls. As his Irish period proceeds, he recognizes his naiviete in assuming that he would be embraced by and acclimate to Donegal society.  He is such a likeable guy that you can't help smiling while reading of his daily struggle to make friends and to be seen as professionally credible.  His descriptions of striving to make the team in Irish football are hysterical and endearing -- you both admire his persistence and his brutal honesty in sharing his mediocre performance.  After a long period during which he is beginning to break into the local culture he recognizes that he is lonely -- not only for a companion, but also for the life he sought to escape. <br />Great descriptions of the laconic, iconoclastic locals.  Having myself lived in a rural area where we only began to be accepted by the locals after seven years, I could identify with Donegan.  However, he is kind spirited and not resentful -- he recognizes and appreciates the cohesiveness of Donegal society.  Good stuff, with a solid underlying message.	2001-07-30
US	51688225	R33LM65NZ1SH30	0375412972	483457123	Yeats Is Dead! A Mystery by 15 Irish Writers	Books	3	3	4	N	N	An amusing patchwork	While not a devotee of mysteries, I was interested in this after reading &quot;Finbar's Hotel&quot; and &quot;Ladies Night at Finbar's Hotel&quot;.  I anticipated being somewhat disappointed since the initial concept is getting squeezed dry.  &quot;Finbar's Hotel&quot; while fun, is by no means great literature, despite the array of authors who participated.  &quot;Ladies Night&quot; was a clever sequel.  Part of the fun of both is attempting to guess who wrote which chapters, and imagining how the authors collaborated to determine the order that would lay the foundation for the subsequent writers' work.  <br />&quot;Yeats is Dead&quot; is fun and clever.  And it is interesting in this variant of the concept to actually know who wrote which chapters.  I was pleased that as I began the work it appeared to match the wit and quality of the other works.  However, about half way the theme starts to get stretched thin, and it begins to read as if the later authors were striving to impress their peers.  This does not flow as well as the earlier works in this &quot;series&quot; and comes across as more of a collection of related but parallel short stories.<br />While I enjoyed &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; (but definitely didn't like &quot;'Tis&quot;), I don't regard Frank McCourt as being in the same league as writers like Roddy Doyle as McCourt's works were memoirs whereas the other authors are creative artists. I was pleasantly surprised as I began McCourt's final chapter, but felt the quality diminished as it proceeded and regret that he was chosen to conclude the book.<br />&quot;Yeats is Dead&quot; is fun and worthwhile primarily due to interest in who is involved in the effort and how they collaborate.	2001-07-27
US	51688225	R21A80DAIJA1WG	0375725784	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Cathartic, poignant, and brilliant	The title of this book is intentionally off putting, but once starting it the reader quickly deduces that this is part of the author's motive.  &quot;A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius&quot; is Eggert's cathartic baring of his soul in an effort to diminish the lingering trauma experienced through his parents' brutal, grueling deaths.  However, while the book is admittedly self indulgent Eggert continually mocks himself, and paints his recollections in a dark, sardonic fashion to avoid wallowing in self pity.<br />This work is the cry of anguish of a boy-man robbed of his youth both by being scarred by the pain he experienced through his mother's lingering death and due to the awesome responsibility he was left for the upbringing of his seven year old brother.  While he clearly recognizes and often savors the rare and precious opportunity raising &quot;Toph&quot; presents he is every conscious of the many limitations resulting from his lack of an obligation free life.<br />His ambivalent flashbacks on events growing up, often prompted by his efforts to spare his brother similar pain, will be resonant with those who, while middle class, did not grow up in Ozzie and Harriet type families.  They represent a mixture of nostalgia, pain, resentment, and love.<br />This is a complex work which through its manic and seemingly paranoid passages is brilliant and indeed heartbreaking.	2001-07-26
US	51688225	RDBSPPPENTG19	0395633184	927643194	Strange Justice: The Selling of Clarence Thomas	Books	5	59	70	N	N	Hypocracy, cynicism,  and raw political muscle	I was prompted to read &quot;Stange Justice&quot; after reading the press about David Brock's recent confession disavowing his slander of Anita Hill in &quot;The Real Anita Hill&quot;.  Interestingly, the interim between the Thomas Supreme Court justice hearings and the present make this study more interesting.  Since the president who manipulated Clarence Thomas onto the Supreme Court is the current president's father, many of those involved in the lobbying and selling of Clarence Thomas are operatives in the present presidential administration.  After reading this account readers will find this particularly discouraging, as clearly they have had no accountability for the many miscarriages of justice which are documented.<br />This chronicle of the Thomas nomination places the Bush and Reagan administratons in an extremely unattractive light.  However, as the two authors are senior editors with the &quot;Wall Street Journal&quot; this cannot be dismissed as a one sided liberal diatribe.  &quot;Strange Justice&quot; is fair and balanced, and gives appropriate &quot;credit&quot; to the democrats for their timidity in failing to respond to the many opportunities to prevent Thomas's confirmation.  There was bittersweet justice in that many of the &quot;moderate&quot; democrats who negotiated with the Bush administration due to imminent relection concerns ultimately ended up being defeated by constituents disgusted by their acquiescence in having allowed Thomas's approval.<br />&quot;Strange Justice&quot; does engage in a bit of pop psychology, drawing conclusions regarding how Thomas's childhood and career have molded his political philosophy.  In summary, they describe an unhappy childhood resulting in a bitter, warped man with an immense chip on his shoulder.  However, the Republicans made his origins fair game by selling Thomas on the basis of his noble, modest origins and &quot;remarkable&quot; success story.   The authors are considerably more generous to Anita Hill, whose questionable judgement they attribute to naiviete.  However, they also make a convincing case regarding an understandable reticience to respond to sexual harassment, as evidenced by the shameful way she was slandered by machinery of the Bush administration.<br />This is an important and chilling book.  Unfortunately, it only leaves you more cynical about the machinations of our government.	2001-07-18
US	51688225	R2STNYRIRC706S	1557042721	529175826	Houseboat on the Seine: A Memoir	Books	3	7	7	N	N	&quot;This Old Boat&quot;	If you find home restoration stories interesting you will find this an intriguing and satisfying read.  However, despite the title and location the book contains exceedingly little in the way of descriptions of French atmosphere, scenery, or culture, virtually none, actually.  While this doesn't necessarily detract from what is an interesting memoir, Wharton's story could have taken place on the Mississippi or Hudson for its descriptions of the host nation.<br />It is an amazing story of fortitude and luck.  The story begins with Wharton's acquisition of a houseboat and what appears to be a lingering plague of bad luck.  However, through sheer determination he surmounts it, and in so doing he attracts the advice and help of people interesting in making his houseboat reconstruction project a success.  In the process he learns alot about himself, and the project galvanizes what is a family distinctive in patience, character, flexibility, and sense of adventure. <br />An interesting side note is the allusions to what is a seemingly cohesive American ex-patriot community which seems to live in France but not to assimilate.  One gets the impression that they appreciate the location, but aren't inclined to acclimate to French society.<br />The book isn't great literature and about 4/5 of the way through, after describing grueling tests and continually avoiding devastating failures, he suddenly begins to describe his life approaching retirement 20 years later...with virtually no segue.  Hmmm.  Still, an interesting book.  The intricate (excessive?) detail given to the reconstruction project will appeal to a distinctive audience; this might be generalized as a &quot;men's interest book&quot;.	2001-07-12
US	51688225	R3AZW2W5T2SSHS	0871136112	786465583	All the Trouble in the World: The Lighter Side of Overpopulation, Famine, Ecological Disaster, Ethnic Hatred, Plague, and Poverty	Books	4	2	3	N	N	From neo-con to iconoclast	I expected to be entertained by this book, but was pleasantly surprised to find that rather than simply outrageous and provocative this incorporates a number of thoughtful, substantive, and valid observations.  While the sardonic reader will find what he wants &quot;All the Trouble in the World&quot; reflects O'Rourke's maturing as a humorist and a social critic.<br />While heretofore I have enjoyed O'Rourke's works overall, sometimes his efforts at  humor have been so purile that they are unfunny.  This book, however, has kept in check the extreme &quot;I've got mine&quot;, boorish, chauvanist, self centered hedonist/frat boy perspective characteristic of earlier works.  While the bad boy theme is shocking, titilating, and outrageous (hence -- entertaining) in the past O'Rourke has tended toward overkill and the humor goes flat. Instead in &quot;All the Trouble in the World&quot; O'Rourke effectively skewers half baked environmentalism, political correctness, and simplistic (and invalid) determinations concerning right and wrong in various world conflicts.  He maintains his rapier sense of irony, but lets his guard down and reveals that he has some depth and social consciousness.  In this book O'Rourke comes across as an iconoclast rather than as a relentless neo-con and you end up respecting him more.	2001-07-06
US	51688225	R3KJFQ1J0BOVJE	0446600660	976761954	Strip Tease	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Absurd, cynical, twisted and credible	Again Hiaasen provides a delightfully savage lampoon of the political system with particular scorn for politicians and lobbiests.  He clearly has a formula, but its one that results in books that are a tonic for those who are totally cynical politically with a taste for somewhat warped sardonic humor.<br />In &quot;Strip Tease&quot; Hiaasen flays the criminal justice system and corporate agriculture in particular.  This farce is formed around a strip tease bar, and the story's heroine is one of the performers. Hiassen uses a misogynistic set to highlight what he highlights as the Achilles heel in male judgement as well as corporate greed and decadence and the political system which enables it (or it enables).<br />This is not great literature, but is an entertaining romp.  A great poolside, airplane, or vacation novel for the reader with a more than three digit iq.	2001-06-29
US	51688225	R2GEXZNN09388R	0767904540	773255064	On Rue Tatin: Living and Cooking in a French Town	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Warm and enticing; Mayes with Mayle's attitude	&quot;On Rue Tatin&quot; will seem like a hybrid of Frances Mayes and Peter Mayle to those familiar with &quot;Under the Tuscan Sun&quot; and &quot;A Year in Provence&quot;.  It depicts a similar acquisition of a European home and its reconstruction akin to Mayes, albeit with a far more positive attitude, with an embracing of French culture reminiscent of Peter Mayle.  <br />This is a lovely, uplifting book.  Loomis describes what seems to be a charmed life does so in a positive, admirable sense.   The author does write in a sort of breathless, gushing style that occasionally makes your teeth hurt, and at times describes what sounds like a Martha Stewart type lifestyle. She does not congratulate herself, however,  and seems to only want to share her joy over her good fortune.  You finish the book both envying and admiring her.<br />This is another book which will prompt you to forage through the kitchen looking for cheese and a glass of wine and which will make you want to visit France, if not to relocate there.	2001-06-28
US	51688225	R1G6R3VOYZGOO4	0375501959	480592593	Comfort Me with Apples: More Adventures at the Table	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Enjoyable, but too much information	Ruth Reichl has produced another work which will prompt devotees of food and drink to salivate.  However, this is also an example of a sequel paling in the shadow of the work which precedes it.  While &quot;Comfort Me With Apples&quot; is a satisfying book it seems a bit disappointing in light of the perfection of &quot;Tender at the Bone&quot;.<br />Reichl's anecdotes are intriguing and her accomplishments are extremely impressive -- and even more so in that she presents them in a fashion that is totally devoid of ego.  One gets the impression that she attributes her successes to circumstance and good fortune (and a persistent appetite and interest in adventure).  What made this work appear disappointing in light of its predecessor was a surfeit of information about Reichl's affairs, the disintegration of her marriage, and adoption woes.  While these aren't necessarily inappropriate, they do seem to  detract from her uplifting anecdotes about her work as a food writer and experiences as a devotee of fine eating.<br />Overall, however, this is a worthwhile book.  Readers are cautioned, however, that it is a definite sequel and should only be read following &quot;Tender at the Bone&quot;.	2001-06-27
US	51688225	R17LIWJNK2I293	0767903382	11518396	Tender at the Bone: Growing Up at the Table	Books	5	6	6	N	N	a gourmand' s love of food and people	Quite simply this is a lovely book.  It is memoir which is heart warming without making your teeth hurt, and an epicurean's delight. <br />Reichl has had a fascinating life and shares it in a very readable, unaffected fashion. She illustrates her recollections of various episodes with exceedingly appealing recollections of various culinary experiences.  I found myself flying through the book, yet savoring every passage (with an inexplicable need to take breaks to forage through the kitchen for snacks...less than subliminal seduction). <br />The author has an wonderful appreciation and respect for other cultures which greatly enhances her anecdotes. &quot;Tender to the Bone&quot; is an uplifting experience.  I look forward to delving into its sequel.	2001-06-13
US	51688225	R3RFCMNLG8NTDZ	0743212533	300018757	The Columnist	Books	3	2	4	N	N	a &quot;roman a clef&quot;?	I was prompted to read this based on a very encouraging recent review in the &quot;NY Times Books Section&quot;.  While mildly clever, and somewhat entertaining, unfortunately this novel does not live up to the enthusiasm of that review.  Its merits are primarily in terms of being a needed commentary on the legitimacy of political commentators.<br />It is a wry lampoon of the cotorie of tiring, self important pundids who hold forth in Washington.  The plot has resonance  because many who follow the national political scene have immense distain for these pompous critics whose opinions are often inaccurate and who clearly represent current events in a fashion to further their personal agendas.  Because the topic's potential is so great (as is the justification for savage satire) &quot;The Columnist&quot; comes across as underwhelming and disappointing. <br />The plot surrounds a chameleon like figure: vain, vapid, callous, unscrupulous, ruthless, and entirely oblivious to how transparent and loathesome he is to others.  Presumably Frank offers him as the archtypical pundid.  This work appears a &quot;roman a clef&quot; through what appears to be a thinly veiled depiction of George Will (bow ties, over wrought syntax, affectation with baseball) including a scenario reminiscent of his unethical, and professionally despicable coaching of Ronald Reagan when implicated in the theft of Carter campaign debate briefs. One imagines that the repugnant, entirely amoral sexual predator depicted as a US Senator is based upon Bill Clinton; unfortunately, however, there are numerous suspects who might have inspired the author. <br />This is a period piece, in the style of Christopher Buckley, albeit more in keeping with his &quot;White House Mess&quot; than the rapier wit of &quot;Thank You for Smoking&quot; and &quot;Little Green Men&quot;.  It is more likely to be a sensation closer to the scene of the action than elsewhere in the nation where the prominence of such personalitiesis greatly diminished.	2001-06-12
US	51688225	R16MI5NUNMCSXC	0140276203	529483302	Eggs for Young America	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Poignant underclass vignettes	This is a very moving, understated collection of stories reflecting working class lives.  Hester chillingly portrays the despondence, angst, lethargy, fantasy of escape, and tragic waste inherent in many blue or no collar lives.  A melancholy, but profound set of stories which describe the typically &quot;invisible&quot; lumpen proletariat.	2001-06-08
US	51688225	R3R7ASGBPAM3V1	039596783X	62914922	How to Read a French Fry: and Other Stories of Intriguing Kitchen Science	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Bill the Science Guy for Cooks	Although I don't have much interest in science, my wife thought I'd enjoy this since I love to cook.  Initially, I was a little skeptical but as I started to peruse this, I found the information both very interesting and extremely helpful.  It IS advisable to understand why the things you know work in cooking actually happen so you can transfer them to other dishes/situations.<br />I found the observations about vegetable and fruit selection (e.g.:  shopping) and preparation the most instructive, with those on seafood being helpful as well.  However, I really can't say I was particularly wowed by the recipes.  They are not for the low fat, low calorie, or unusual dish type of cook.  I was particularly disappointed that he didn't offer suggestions for using fruit other than as a dessert or breakfast type of item. <br />While not rivetting, this is an interesting and useful reference.  Reviewing it is certainly bound to enhance the culinary skills of even the most experienced cook.	2001-06-07
US	51688225	R2ZRAGF98C1482	0679762671	999026123	A Dog's Life	Books	2	6	12	N	N	Mildly amusing	Though the reviews were underwhelming, I decided I wanted a light, fun read, and heretofore found even Mayle's most underwhelming books a pleasant diversion.  The premise for this book is sweet, and it had incredible potential.  However, the reviews were on target; this is a lukewarm and disappointing book.  The illustrations by Koren, however,  are delightful and redeem the book somewhat.<br />Since Mayle's other works seem to effortlessly exude wit and charm in a self deprecating manner it is surprising that this is so flat.  The humor seems forced, and in comparison with the Provence series one imagines that he cranked this out (however, his latest &quot;ethnographies&quot; on southern France were clearly produced for the summer vacation market). Had &quot;A Dog's Life&quot; been give little more time and effort it might have fulfilled its potential.<br />I couldn't recommend buying this; if you come across a copy and are lost for something to read, you might enjoy a passage or two.  However, don't bother if you have anything with any potential near by.	2001-06-06
US	51688225	RHZD5UXQAFHRK	0375405909	191034047	French Lessons: Adventures with Knife, Fork, and Corkscrew	Books	3	18	18	N	N	Light and fun -- Mayle rebounds	Since &quot;A Year in Provence&quot; is such a charming memoir I was prompted to read Mayle's subsequent works in the now Provence series.  However, while amusing, the latter works pale in comparison with the jewel like quality of the original.  Though entertaining &quot;Tourjours Provence&quot; was a disappointing &quot;sequel.&quot; Last year after reading &quot;Encore Provence&quot; I felt that Mayle had squeezed out all the juice he could get from the &quot;Provencial&quot; rind.  So, with trepidation and low expectations I bought &quot;French Lessons&quot; and was pleasantly surprised.<br />While not nearly as clever or heart warming as his initial work, &quot;French Lessons&quot; is fun, entertaining, and will heighten your appetite.  It is an ideal work for the Francophile, or simply the reader who wishes to travel vicariously to France.  It is a perfect summer beach, or long plane ride book.	2001-05-31
US	51688225	R29UPUWGF1DRPK	0679432477	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Worthwhile, but not vintage Russo	After, his delightful hiatus in his lampoon of higher education  &quot;Straight Man&quot;, Russo has returned to the hardscrabble, blue collar milleu familiar to readers of his earlier works &quot;Risk Pool&quot; and &quot;Mohawk&quot;.  &quot;Empire Falls&quot; is another example of the author's deft ability to depict the gritty conditions, and resulting personalities and relationships in economically depressed rural towns. <br />While overall I enjoyed this novel and found it engaging, it was disappointing in the shadow of his earlier works.  A work should be totally engrossing to run nearly 500 pages, and at times I felt it dragged; I think editing 100 or so pages would have made it stronger.  The plot tended to be somewhat formulaic, with an bitter controlling millionairess ruling the community and having an implausible intimate involvement with all its denizens whose lives she subverts as a manifestation of her own frustration. (She sees them while they're sleeping; she knows when they're awake). It includes a genre type of tragedy/crisis as its acme, and after the 400 preceding pages the novel concludes in an all too tidy fashion with all the bad guys getting their just deserves.	2001-05-30
US	51688225	RK68DQP6EC4SX	0375501851	363806782	White Teeth	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Cultural clash in a British salad bowl	This is an interesting, complex, informative, and often highly amusing novel.  Its rich allusions to the historical foundations of various cultural prejudices represented by the diverse disapora of Britain's colonies residing in London is depicted in an insightful,  characteristically wry, sardonic, English manner.  Satire coupled with trully wise insights about human interactions and about how the past often shackles people and prevents them from savoring the present makes this a substantive as well as entertaining work.  Interwoven is a intricate and clever plot -- the combination is pretty noteworthy for a 24 year old author; she reflects a maturity beyond her years. <br />I found myself often reminded of Hanif Kureishi's &quot;My Beautiful Laundrette&quot;.  Zadie Smith, like Kureishi, notes how immigration has resulted in a British society that is more like a salad bowl than a melting pot.  Americans who have angst about our own failures in fully integrating people of diverse cultures as one society will find this parallel experience particularly interesting.	2001-05-11
US	51688225	R4Y37Q70T428Q	0446604666	198501177	Sick Puppy	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Warped, wicked, fun	If you have a cynical, sardonic, warped, wit and look upon government and industry with a jaundiced eye you will love this book.  Those distraught over the devastation caused by development and disgusted by the subversion of government by lobbiests, and who occasionally respond by indulging in dark, gallows humor (rather than simply being severely depressed) will find this a tonic -- it is a great belly laugh.<br />In &quot;Sick Puppy&quot; Hiaasen savagely and delightfully lampoons lobbiests, politicians, real estate developers, game hunters, cigar smokers, conspicuous consumption, and the decadence of the '90's.  The ground he covers is all too familiar to anyone awake in recent years and he's careful to incorporate nearly all taboos.  This book is outrageous and extremely entertaining -- it will make you laugh out loud (repeatedly) and is a great alternative to anger and depression.  Clearly Hiaasen's attitude is if you can't beat them, mock them, which he does with gusto.	2001-05-10
US	51688225	R3R87J16ARWXH9	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	36	44	N	N	the bald truth about wage slavery	Barbara Ehrenreich in her latest work again sustains her position as one of the United States most effective social commentators. This is a work which calls upon Americans to recognize their tacit exploitation of a substantial number of their seemingly invisible fellow citizens who are trapped in poverty by limited wage jobs.  <br />Ehrenreich's academic background comes through as she proves an excellent teacher.  She presents the factual statistics at the end of the book in its conclusion where the reader more likely to appreciate and absorb their meaning after having read anecdotes from the reality they represent.  Her brilliant (and somewhat daunting) willingness to experience this gruelling existence in various mileus adds credibility to the outrage which she expresses.<br />This should be required reading for most Americans in order to instill some sense of social consciousness and demand for justice.  As Ehrenreich eloquently states, we should be ashamed, not guilty, as a society for the unconscionable circumstances in which so many in this rich nation are hopelessly trapped.	2001-04-30
US	51688225	R1R4X1E4A0OJ6E	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	89	97	N	N	Comprehensive, profound, discouraging  and troubling	The excerpt from this book on food additives which appeared in &quot;The Atlantic&quot; was by itself an incentive to read this book.  However, it is far more comprehensive and fascinating.  I was &quot;pleased&quot; to find this a thorough, scholarly, and also quite interesting overview of the history and impact of fast food upon American society.<br />I found myself continually reminded of Upton Sinclair's &quot;The Jungle&quot;, Ruth Ozeki's &quot;My Year of Meats&quot; and, more pleasantly, David Halberstam's &quot;The Fifties&quot;. Schlosser provides a fascinating history of the fast food industry and food notes to relevant agricultural and related labor history and legislation.  The irony of the later, however, is overpowering.<br />Clearly the issues of food safety are the most terrifying aspect of this book.  I was left chilled by how particularly critical it is to protect my children from consuming fast food.  However, one is left with an incredible sense of outrage, and impotence, about the recidivism of American corporate practices in terms of minimal fair labor practices and its lack of fundamental social conscience regarding consumer safety.  It is too reminiscent of Sinclair's seminal work and ironically the impact of Schlosser will probably be the same -- to raise concern about food quality alone rather than the egregious exploitation of those in fast food production and service.  It leaves you increasingly cynical about the corporate lack of business ethics, and failure of politicians to act as guardians of the common good. <br />This book will terrify, enrage, and depress you.  It is not sensational; the validity of the basic facts is inescapable.  The author has performed a great service to society -- regrettably, it seems unlikely to result in any call to action.	2001-04-17
US	51688225	RBP69X4CWAZWC	0375420940	235600074	Looking for History : Dispatches from Latin America	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A clear, illustrative view of modern Latin America	This is an excellent primer for the reader who seeks an overview of the diverse currents in modern Latin America.  The study is not comprehensive; it is a sampler of articles addressing a number of separate and distinct Latin American situations (Cuba, Peru, Mexico, Colombia) which includes historical figures who served as catalysts (Eva Peron, Che Guevara).  She references a number of other recent (accurate and well written) works on Latin America enabling the reader to pursue additional study.<br />Guillermoprieto writes in a clear, crisp readable fashion which incorporating understatement and irony.  Her perspective is Latin American and she is  direct and honest regarding the pervasive influence of the United States. Refreshingly, however, she refrains from simplistically depicting Latin Americans as martyrs and clearly places an appropriate degree of responsibility with Latin Americans for their own fate.<br />A fine book -- well written, interesting, informative.  Highly recommended for the person who wishes to get further up to speed on the complex and extremely varied social and political milieus in the hemisphere's Spanish speaking nations.	2001-04-10
US	51688225	R3FKCBFZO6EAO7	0385495951	354039794	Irish America: Coming Into Clover	Books	5	21	22	N	N	What makes the American Irish &quot;tick&quot;	Normally I regard sociological studies as palatable as a tongue depressor. However, this is rivetting, readable, and entertaining.  Clearly my interest was piqued because it explores in comprehensive detail my ethnic group.  The American Irish (or Irish Americans) will find this a very compelling and satisfying read.<br />The book studies the Irish diaspora in the various areas of this vast country and points out how the different locations and parallel immigrations resulted in American Irish of significantly varying success, acclimation, and temperment (e.g.:  San Francisco v. Chicago v. NY v. Boston).  However, regardless of their differing opportunities Denzell notes the seemingly subtle but enduring culture and driving forces which endure among the American Irish -- such as a reluctance to feel secure with material success, gregariousness, and restrained demonstration of emotion.  What is perhaps most interesting is that Denzell points out how most Americans, and even the American Irish, are unaware of any specifically Irish American cultural patterns,though they are pervasive and inescapable, if seemingly oblique.  <br />Reading this book I came to understand the motivations for my own behavior much better.  Heretofore I thought they were simply the quirks of my own family; reading Denzell one is struck by the strength of these historic roots.  While the book describes us, warts and all, it leaves the American Irish reader with a satisfying sense of comfort and pride (not that we'd ever publicly admit it).	2001-04-03
US	51688225	R9RLNI1I2VMLP	038533334X	575060326	Charming Billy	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Painfully beautiful	I decided to read this again for a more substantive acknowledgement of St. Patrick's Day.  Again, I found myself emotionally moved by this trully touching and profound work.<br />While all  McDermott's works speak with a distinctly metropolitan New York Irish Catholic voice I have found this novel almost eerie in how precisely it represents this subculture.  She reflects a thorough understanding of the group's psyche:  its dreams, fears, strengths, prejudices, passions, and most importantly its weaknesses.  The author shows uncanny skill in assessing character through observations which convincingly depict the motivations that inspire behavior.  Her prose is both beautiful and profoundly insightful, in a characteristically understated Irish fashion.<br />Reading &quot;Charming Billy&quot; for me was unsettling.  I felt as if McDermott was describing my family and the others with whom I grew up, revealing both those things we hid as well as those of we were proud.  While this novel makes your heart ache its tremendous beauty is deeply satisfying.	2001-03-20
US	51688225	R2G9H3NAAEUG8H	0393050424	759689844	The Death of Vishnu: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A brief sojourn in the afterworld	This is an incredibly satisfying novel.  It provides the reader a glimpse of the quotidian existence of middle class India: its social stratification, priorities and prejudices, and religious stratification.  However, it is also a fantasy and intertwines that culture's distinctive lingering concern about possible immortality and life after death with the relative importance and differing perspectives based on social standing and religious affiliation.<br />The author creatively weaves the present, recollections of the past, and fantasies about the future throughout the plot.  The lens for the focus on three distinctly different sets of middle class characters is an underclass vagrant named after a God. <br />Both thought provoking and exotic yet also an effortless read.  I look forward to getting more out of it with each subsequent review.	2001-03-14
US	51688225	R32QL2A8CXWT0B	0385498799	223812993	Bee Season: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	absorbing, esoteric, culturally complex	After completing this book I heard it summarized as &quot;Jewish mysticism&quot;.  While that is in part an accurate characterization and the story's core, this very complicated novel transcends that description.  However, I think one will need to re-read it several times in order to appreciate its complex symbolism and meaning.  This is a sophisticated novel which warrants careful reading in order to savor its nuances and simply the careful, brilliant skill of its author.<br />Besides the culturally specific references, surely esoteric even for most Jewish readers, this is a story of narrowly defined scholarship and tightly wound intellect which ultimately manifests itself in manic, aberrant behavior.  The juxdaposing of Judaism with the Hari Krishna movement is intriguing.  While I appreciated the observations on the use of faith to search for purpose I do not believe I fully comprehended the meaning the author was attempting to convey via this specific comparison (unless simply that of perhaps the ultimate of contrasts).<br />This would be a terrific assignment for a particularly cerebral and sophisticated book group.  I look forward to discussing it with friends once they have read it.	2001-03-13
US	51688225	R24M8LNFR3A5SA	0670896764	838594392	A Day Late and a Dollar Short	Books	3	6	7	N	N	The importance of family, especially a mother	&quot;Waiting to Exhale&quot; is such an incredibly smart, clever, and &quot;on time&quot; book, that having &quot;When Stella Got Her Groove Back&quot; follow it, was an incredible disappointment.  Therefore, &quot;A Day Late and a Dollar Short&quot; is a particularly welcome and encouraging rebound for Terry McMillan. It is an enjoyable read with a poignant message.  Unfortunately is not nearly as skillfully and carefully crafted as the author's earlier works.<br />The book focuses on a typical, in other words &quot;disfunctional&quot; American family.  However, the accent is decidedly African American, and reflecting that experience speaks to a distinctive charm, wisdom, and wit.  It is a touching testament to how mothers are a reality check and serve as both the bedrock, and glue in families.  The most moving part of the story's message is that despite how bitter it may be to swallow the unrelenting honesty of the feedback which mothers dispense, they possess an honored and cherished place and their absence creates a void that cannot be filled.<br />McMillan gives this novel a somewhat formulaic plot, concluding with a predictable, idealistic, happy, and all too tidy ending. Family crises and loss galvanize the family and through mutual support they surmount their problems. A noble concept; if only life were so easy.	2001-02-19
US	51688225	R1MMC6SMHEFZZ1	0805063757	727127766	Upside Down: A Primer for the Looking-Glass World	Books	5	26	27	N	N	The unvarnished truth	At the outset, I must admit that Galeano is one of my favorite authors, so I bought this with high expectations.  Again, I wasn't disappointed; Galeano's comprehensive perspective and profound, yet practical, insights are genuinely awesome.  He tells us what we need to know and recognize but often find too difficult to confront and acknowledge.<br />This work directly presents the unvarnished truth about the relationship of the &quot;developed&quot; or &quot;first&quot; world vis a vis the &quot;third&quot; world.  As Galeano aptly notes, the former comprises the &quot;north&quot; -- the United States and Europe, and the latter that which is south of this north -- Africa, Latin America, and much of Asia.  His metaphor &quot;upside down&quot; is apt, not only in terms of geography, but as he points the power structure's media and institutions represent as truth the complete opposite of the actual realities of the world's institutions, societies, and plight of the majority of its populace.<br />Galeano makes his astute and irrefutable observations in a clever, interesting and thought provoking conceptual fashion.  The book is extremely readable, but after a while the first world reader will surely become ill at ease, and will unconsciously attempt to provide rationalizations for the ugly and relentless oppression and exploitation of the third world by northern societies.  <br />&quot;Upside Down&quot; is a needed dose of reality, but reading it is often like a cold glass of water thrown in your face.  However, like such a glass of water it will wake you up and demand your attention.	2001-02-13
US	51688225	RK60WBKC9P9SC	1892514702	678252016	The Total View of Taftly: A Novel	Books	2	4	8	N	N	An amiable misfit	Since I have an appreciation for the eccentric and iconoclastic I found the book jacket description for this novel enticing.  Yet both my wife and I read this and we were both underwhelmed.  Her conclusion was that Morris was attempting to produce something in the spirit of &quot;A Confederacy of Dunces&quot;.  Let me assure you, however, that other than an eccentric protagonist, and the tale being situated south of the Mason Dixon line, in no other way does this story resemble O'Toole's classic.<br />The plot at several different points in the story seems to initially take off (albeit in slightly different directions) and then to quickly sputter and fizzle.  It features the stereotypic microscopically small Southern town with the last of the local gentry representing a spent gene pool, mired in aimlessness and alcoholic escape, having an insecure self image and a somewhat pathetic obsession with an abused woman.  Characteristically, he is independently wealthy (but seemingly indifferent to money), and a sort of idiot savant in manipulating investments (though, this interesting tangent, which had potential, was never fleshed out). <br />The story quickly, and unsatisfyingly concludes in an entirely predictable, easy, happy ending devoid of any complexity.  I can usually appreciate a good book, but reading the other reviews I am stymied concerning what they saw that I missed.	2001-02-09
US	51688225	R3F6O9QZLND04G	0394726413	368227816	Bright Lights, Big City	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Yuppie's Cry for Help	Reading this 15 years after it was written, I was struck by how quintessentially '80's this story is.  The values, the slang, and the obsessions are a snapshot of the period.  I lived in metropolitan NY at the time and was surprised by how distasteful I found McInerney's somewhat exaggerated, but none the less fairly accurate, portrayal of a particularly shallow period in the nation's most self absorbed city.<br />Probably in the mid-80's reading about the carpe diem decadence of Manhattan yuppies was more entertaining than it is now; today this novel's satire and irony are mildly amusing, but hardly uproarious.  While I recognize the point was to develop frustration and a lack of sympathy for the self destruction and self pity of the protagonist, I simply got grossed out reading about excessive snorting of cocaine, imbibing of vodka, and sleep deprivation.  After the author made the point he proceeded to beat it to death to the point where it was beyond any credibility.  The point, I realize, was to emphasize the incredible self indulgence and aimless waste that characterized this group during the era; however, it starts to d r a g.<br />After I had found myself plodding through about midway into the novel the complexity developed and some of the earlier metaphors became more self evident.  Fortunately it's a short book because I was ready to give up, but reading the second half I was glad that I didn't.  The last third is thought provoking, and moving, with a significant message.<br />I began this with expectations to be highly entertained by a witty, sardonic period piece.  Instead, I found it generally an unsettling reflection of a recent era and specifically a tale which touched me.	2001-02-06
US	51688225	R171ZB55TGWJWK	0806966998	120070300	Windows On the World Complete Wine Course: 2001 Edition: A Lively Guide	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A practical, unpretentious, guide	Reading the jacket cover I noted that Frank Prial of the &quot;NY Times&quot; recommended this for those beginning to explore wine as well as those &quot;better versed&quot;.  Since I look forward to his columns every Wednesday, I figured this was a pretty credible endorsement.  This was a case where the quote was a good lead.<br />This is a whirlwind tour of the wine world.  It provides brief, but significant nuggets of information about most of the major wine regions, varietals, and types.  He offers a number of helpful suggestions for establishing greater familiarity with wine, particularly for those with a limited budget. <br />The guide is designed for easy reference and offers some good suggestions concerning types, producers, and vintages. His suggestions on matching wine with food are particularly helpful. I was surprised by some of his recommendations which I might now regard as plonk but, admittedly, a few years ago they would have been in my shopping cart. Accordingly, I imagine that many connoisseurs would pick this apart.<br />This is a good &quot;nuts and bolts&quot; guide, and refreshingly devoid of the &quot;attitude&quot; found in most books of this nature.	2001-01-29
US	51688225	R3UH3U7T1V8P34	0446672351	454210807	Reservation Blues	Books	3	27	31	N	N	Impotence and aimlessness	The characters Victor Joesph and Thomas Builds the Fire who first appeared in Alexie's &quot;The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven&quot; are prominent in this novel, which serves as a sequel to the short story in which they first appeared. While the novel's beginning, with the arrival of black blues player Robert Johnson's arrival at the Spokane reservation, initially suggests a possible variation the novel quickly returns to the theme present in other Alexie works, albeit with different essential messages about the condition of American Indians today.<br />The story is written in the author's typical sardonic fashion, portraying ongoing hapless episodes confronting the protagonists, with the Indians reflecting on their experiences and fate in a self deprecating and defeatest fashion.  However, Alexie offers a number of distinctive observations in this tale.  Among them he notes how the suppression of American Indians is in part a function of how the predominant society has kept them divided.  This is illustrated by descriptions of the petty tyranny of the tribal police and tribal council corrupted by their power on the reservation, narrow attitudes of territoriality taking predominance over group identity in distinctions between tribes, and how jealousy over the prospect of success helps thwart the advancement of tribal members and actually promotes alienation, failure, and self destruction.<br />Alexie's mordant humor comes to play in depicting the ongoing theft by the predominant culture of what little remains to American Indians, with Caucasians exploiting Native American culture and those who are &quot;part&quot; native American or those masquerading presuming to be representative. In a particularly ironic episode Indians visiting Manhattan are dismissed as surely being Puerto Rican, not Native American.<br />Touching, thought provoking and well written.  It is woven with important messages about a people who are treated as if they are invisible.	2001-01-26
US	51688225	R1UB31PTP969WM	0060914289	742851701	The Egg and I	Books	4	12	21	N	N	A visit back in time	I was interested in reading this book based on its descriptions of life on the Olympic Peninsula.  However, while reading it I was struck by the roles and plight of women a generation ago, and how primitive life was during that era in rural Western Washington.  It seemed like MacDonald was describing the late nineteenth century rather than the pre-World War II period.<br />The author writes in sardonic, self deprecating fashion that is humorous. However, it is interesting to consider its humor today is entirely different from why it was perceived to be humorous in a different generation.  Throughout the book, but particularly at the beginning, I found myself frustrated by the secondary role, and subjegation that was an accepted as appropriate and inevitable for women.  The callous, condescending manner in which her husband treated her, the sentiment that what he wanted would be an unchallenged part of her fate, and the manner in which he continually undermined her self confidence was incredibly frustrating to read.  <br />What probably most exercises readers today is MacDonald's perjorative comments on Native Americans living on the Olympic Peninsula.  While consisting of gross generalizations and rude stereotypes, they are in keeping with the other attitudes woven throughout the memoir, and reflect the prevailing sentiments of the era.  The fact that this book was viewed as highly entertaining, even hilarious, at the time reinforces that such opinions were predominant during that period.<br />MacDonald's descriptions of the natural beauty of the Peninsula are poetic, and precious as a snapshot of a bygone era.  Her recollections of the gruelling work which was required to be successful are engrossing and leave you full of admiration for the strength and fortitude she and her husband demonstrated.<br />This is a good book to read in terms of recent history.  It is an important and eye opening work - the type that is necessary to remind us that the need for women's emancipation was far from exaggerated (and that further progress is still needed).	2001-01-16
US	51688225	R1I7B2LQ1X4YNE	0679751521	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil: A Savannah Story	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Wry, colorful, rivetting	When I read it first, this book was a very pleasant surprise. Experiencing winter doldrums I recently read it again, wanting something engrossing and satisfying.<br />Not being particularly interested in crime or mysteries, this book had no appeal for me, despite the intense hype when it came out several years ago.  However, after seeing the movie I reconsidered and bought the book.  As usual, the book is light years ahead of the movie in quality.<br />Berendt provides us with a fun visit to an exotic, and distinctively unique part of America.  The Savannah he describes is self confident and self satisfied; it both tolerates and seems to embrace the colorful, iconoclastic, and eccentric array of characters among its population.<br />The author's wry observations, skillful use of understatement,  self deprecation, and sense of irony are an ideal framework for this twisted tale. Despite the bizzare episodes and characters involved the book is devoid of vulgarity or gratutious violence.<br />I continually needed to remind myself that this all actually occurred and isn't a work of fiction.  This book is truly entertaining, despite the grim circumstances underlying the basic plot.  It is a one of a kind tale, and a terrific read.	2001-01-16
US	51688225	R1BP6DFZGHUOZP	0380713810	957780736	Made in America: An Informal History of the English Language in the United States	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Witty, fun, erudite	This is by far my favorite book by Bill Bryson.  I bought this for my wife who is a devotee of word derivations, but found that it sated my interest in history, and also provided a multitude of fun, and interesting, facts about popular culture.  <br />Unlike most of Bryson's works this is a serious scholarly effort, but is written in an entertaining rather than academic fashion.  Also, unlike other Bryson works this is less opinionated, and uncharacteristically celebrates the many fascinating and admirable factors in the evolution of a distinct American culture.<br />While his typical sardonic humor comes through it is more understated, and not at all unkind.<br />A fun and educational book that you will want to leisurely enjoy a chapter at a time, and not necessarily in sequential order.	2001-01-09
US	51688225	R1E79HH9QBLALC	0316816884	25050760	The Hacienda: A Memoir	Books	3	12	17	N	N	a tense tale of abuse and resilience	This is a book which warrants reading twice. This is because the first time you find yourself so anxious to learn the outcome of its human drama that you don't thoughtfully absorb the vivid  descriptions of rural Venezuela.  <br />&quot;The Hacienda&quot; is a memoir that reads more like fiction than the actual experiences of a young woman.  The author's naivete and the reality of her husband, and the other central characters both seem implausible and from another era; one could imagine this story being written by Emily Bronte. It is hard to believe that a contemporary from London could have gotten herself into such a situation, and I found myself checking several times to verify that what transpired actually occurred in the '70's.  Additionally, it was hard to imagine that any part of Venezuela would remain this feudal, much less an affluent, &quot;aristocratic&quot; family largely anchored in Caracas.<br />This is a tale of ongoing abuse, brutality, resilience, and survival.  One gets the impression that the author must be made of granite; however, the reader also feels incredible frustration that she could have allowed herself to remain mired for so long in such an oppressive, primitive, and menacing environment. The author depicts her daily plight through oblique correspondence to her mother in England, and reveals a stoic, pragmatic approach of day to day coping, while ignoring and indirectly enabling the ugly brutality of her schizophrenic husband. Perhaps this is primarily a memoir of how victims sustain the conditions which subject them.<br />Her descriptions of &quot;el gente&quot; at Hacienda Santa Rita are a fascinating glimpse of feudal rural Latin America.  This is an interesting book, but a tense read.  It is interesting and rivetting, but not a relaxing experience.	2001-01-08
US	51688225	R2NISOYHCCP8WO	0395981328	714615069	The Obituary Writer	Books	5	4	5	N	N	a tragic realization of others' need for fame	This is a mesmerizing, complex, twisted, and touching tale.  Initially I ranked it a 4, but then determined that a plot which leaves you debating what motivated the readers and what in actuality may have occurred warrants a higher rating.  The plots of too many other highly rated books are more straightford, less complex, and not at all thought provoking.  This is one which prompts vigorous discussion by different readers -- it's ideal for a book group.<br />The plot involves a cast of sad, slightly flawed characters leading unremarkable and slightly dissatisfying lives. The protagonist Gordy's life and goals are a manifestation of his mother's life long deferred gratification in the hope for vicarious fame.  <br />While I was engrossed in the quick moving plot I can't say that I found it amusing -- the characters' aberrant behavior seemed a response to delusions in the midst of disturbing compromises navigating a quotidian existence. <br />This is a book which warrants rereading to appreciate the characters' many inspirations and its subtle meanings.	2001-01-03
US	51688225	R107ZZ7NON6Z4Y	1585741868	115735345	Bacchus & Me: Adventures in the Wine Cellar	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Fun, educational, entertaining	Sometimes food and wine guides tend to seem detached from the reach or reality of 95% of the population; however, not this one.  Not only is it helpful to those without scads of disposable income, it is a great start for the neophyte, and fun reading.  <br />McInerney is a definite Francophile (at least in terms of wine) but comes by his opinion honestly, having completed considerable investigation of California wines, to which he gives high points, albeit with some reservations. He addresses his topic in an entertaining and distinctively American fashion, approaching it from the perspective of a yuppie consumer. Despite his admiration for French wine, he is also an admirer of the controversial wine critic (and French bete noire) Robert Parker, Jr. <br />This book provides numerous insights regarding French, Californian, and some Italian wines.  However, I was surprised by his scant attention to Alsace, and his overlooking of some currently &quot;hot&quot; wines such as Gigondas, and those of Languedoc. Additionally, though a new release, he almost entirely ignors Washington State, which is currently a major noise in quality American production.<br />McInerney comes across as a hip, high living, but very likeable guy with a self deprecating sense of humor.  His enjoyment of the topic, irreverent metaphors, and resistance to taking himself or the subject too seriously make this a distinctive, readable, and fun read.  It is clearly a guide for the beginning or intermediate level wine connossieur.  &quot;Black belts&quot; would probably find it middle brow, but might still enjoy debating McInerney's observations. However, to his credit, McInerney takes pains to deny any great expertise.  All in all a great book for anyone who enjoys wine.	2001-01-02
US	51688225	RX7SCHO4T7XDQ	0452281946	392488758	Tomato Red	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Colorful, crude, philosophical	Those who think they would have no interest in the poor white trash genre would be well advised to reconsider and put this on their reading lists.  Despite being gritty Woodrell writes a convincing and sympathetic description of the other side of the tracks:  the lumpen proletariat and aimless, and the roles to which they are relegated in society, and specifically small towns.  The characters of &quot;Tomato Red&quot; are a small town whore, her eccentric grown children who seek to escape both her and the destiny to which they are condemned as her children in their small town, and the young redneck alcoholic misfit who clings to them.  It is crude, graphic, and vulgar, but not excessively so, and these characteristics are essential to effectively painting this story.  Woodrell makes essential and profound observations on alienation and the rigid barriers which maintain social stratification, and the savage consequences of challenging authority.<br />After reading this novel I was prompted to read other Woodrell works.  While they are good, this is by far his best so far, and reflects a vast growth in his sophistication as an author.<br />This is one of those rare books that you keep thinking about after you've read it, and look forward to reading it again. Though I'm always hungry to read something different I found this so well written that I made a point of rereading it when I needed to immerse myself in something I knew would be good.	2000-12-04
US	51688225	R10BBWWWM41VI7	1568360665	751307100	Moscow Days: Life and Hard Times in the New Russia	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting, alarming, important	We have heard of the crisis in Russia for many years; however, like most tragedies of great magnitude, this situation is difficult to truly imagine.  &quot;Moscow Days&quot; provides tangible descriptions of the plight of everyday Russians to which the average western reader can relate.  It brings the impact of the dissolution of the Soviet system, and the unleashing of unrestained &quot;capitalism&quot; down to a quotidian level.  Reading this book provided me with a greater appreciation of the ramifications of the economic and political crisis confronting Russia as well as, paradoxically, an understanding of how people are surviving the midst of this castastrophe. <br />While the above probably makes this book sound like a depressing reading experience the author's sardonic wit, and often mordant humor, makes this a palatable learning experience.  Dutkina leaves you with a tremendous amount of respect for the resiliance of the Russian people and their stoic response to an ever changing situation which they find themselves largely impotent to affect.<br />I found this book reminiscent of the Croatian author,Slavenka Drakulic's works  &quot;How We Survived Communism and Even Laughed&quot; and &quot;Balkan Days&quot;.  While bright and witty, unfortunately Galina Dutkina does not have the literary prowess of Drakulic.  Nevertheless, this is a worthwhile and important read, particularly in light of how ignorant the average American is of the devastation confronting the Russian people.	2000-11-29
US	51688225	R8Q5UJ2AA5NUX	0140099220	934796189	Steaming to Bamboola: The World of a Tramp Freighter	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Dry, witty, educational	This is a very clever, creative and satisfying read.  &quot;Steaming to Bamboola&quot; both demonstrates Buckley's sophisticated intellect and entertains in his characteristically unpretentious and powerfully understated fashion.  Following &quot;The White House Mess&quot; this book also reflects the author's development as a writer, and is in keeping with the rapier wit evident in his later &quot;Thank You For Smoking&quot; , &quot;Wry Martinis&quot;, and &quot;Little Green Men&quot;.<br />Having first read &quot;Wry Martinis&quot; I quickly recognized that &quot;Steaming to Bamboola&quot; was written from Buckley's first hand experience having worked on a freighter.  The book weaves nuggets of nautical science, policy, and history with droll observations on the myriad, misfit personalities drawn to the  merchant marine lifestyle.  Besides making you laugh, the book is educational and informative as it is written in a style that the total neophyte can understand and appreciate.<br />&quot;Steaming to Bamboola&quot; would fall into the &quot;a man's book&quot; genre; it is written from a masculine perspective, but could be fully appreciated by both sexes.  The book leaves you with an tremendous amount of admiration for Christopher Buckley as a extremely bright, worldly, witty, and tremendously likeable guy.	2000-11-27
US	51688225	R13RGKSBKEBPKP	0374522669	381560757	Adventures on the Wine Route: A Wine Buyers Tour of France	Books	3	17	33	N	N	Informative, but pedantic and tiring	I participate in wine tastings led by an extremely informative, (but very opinionated) wine seller for Kermit Lynch. Based on our conversations regarding French wine, and such books as the Peter Mayle &quot;Provence&quot; series, he recommended that I pick this up.  While the topic(s) is interesting, I found sustaining interest in finishing this book tough going.<br />Lynch tells the reader a great deal about the wine industry in general, and the various wine making regions of France in particular. He has clearly loved his experiences learning about France and the French wine industry and relates some interesting anecdotes. However, he is an unabased Francophile and the book shows little objectivity.  While one's knowledge of French wine will be  greatly enhanced, Lynch is self congratulatory and his ego is somewhat overpowering.  He lectures his readers in an pedantic fashion, in a self conscious effort at profundity.  The writing is prolix and the author is dogmatic, extremely judgmental, and somewhat sanctimonious.  One gets the distinct impression that he views those who disagree with him as committed to interventionist wine making, environmental devastation, and bad taste. Even those sections that aren't opinionated would be better stated more directly and less of an effort to exercise the language.<br />The book will provide you with a broad knowledge of French wine, and you'll learn a good deal about French geography.  However, it is not a light or fun read, and it is a far from objective study.	2000-11-27
US	51688225	R2ZRT3T1ZGDUAS	0385334931	237199137	Sometimes I Dream in Italian	Books	1	7	14	N	N	A negative stereotype	The topic and setting for this book had me excited to read it.  Having grown up in metropolitan NY I always had an admiration for Italian American culture and anticipated descriptions of close, large families, rich food, and direct and emotional interactions.  Unfortunately, this book was none of these things, in fact, it was not only disappointing, it was depressing.<br />Despite having grown up in a predominantly Italian American region, the culture and people Ciresi describes are unfamiliar to me.  She describes a group which is the antithesis of the kind, generous, family oriented people with whom I am familiar.  My impression is that the author grew up in an atypical, disfunctional Italian American family, and has presumed to define the entire subculture based upon her own experiences.<br />Despite not being of Italian heritage, I found quite a few of the characterizations pejorative and insulting as well as inaccurate.  Actually, I was both offended and left with a sense of injustice reading her depiction of Italian American life. <br />The focus of the book is the protagonist's experiences growing up in a poor disfunctional family, devoid of warmth and affection. She reflects bitterly upon her childhood and parents, and attributes her failures professionally, and in personal relationships to her upbringing.  <br />A sad, dissatisfying book.  It is not entertaining, and offers no valid social commentary.	2000-11-22
US	51688225	R8723LZJKVTE1	0425167283	430499125	Election	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Discovering heroes' clay feet and the hollowness of success	Tom Perrotta's works speak poignantly about adolescents' discovery of adult realities.  &quot;Election&quot; is very much in this genre, and seems to accent the fallability of our heroes and how, while essentially good, they often have unattractive and self destructive tendancies.  <br />This novel shows how time and distance can heal wounds, that through growth we can come to forgive those who hurt us, and how maturity broadens our perspective so we can understand the motives which precipitate callow behavior. It also speaks to how witnessing, and participating in the downfall of adults can lead teenagers to quickly develop adult perspectives.<br />A good book, which employs adolescent situations to provide thought provoking observations on life and behavior.	2000-11-14
US	51688225	R297EFIJM4P87T	0425169715	771227214	The Wishbones	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Striving for Purpose and the Peter Pan Syndrome	Perrotta has a knack for portraying extremely credible, sympathetic, seemingly familiar characters. Through his depiction of the daily grind and tribulations of his characters he reveals important and insightful observations on human behavior as well as providing an interesting plot.  Accordingly, I found &quot;The Wishbones&quot; readable, rivetting, and thought provoking.<br />This novel's protagonist, Dave, is a type with whom we're all familiar.  Likeable and easy going, his life is stymied by a lack of motivation and a reluctance to be pushed outside his comfort zone.  &quot;The Wishbones&quot; portrays how he comes to recognize how his tendancy toward denial has held him back -- from adventure and success, and is likely to keep him mired in a mundane, stullifying existence.  This is illustrated by his staying in the suburbs, living in his parents' house, remaining with the same girlfriend for 15 years, work in a deadend lackey job, and membership in a mediocre band full of &quot;average&quot; guys, who might be defined as losers.<br />The book explores what is success, whether it and happiness and a &quot;normal life&quot; are compatible. While frustrating and occasionally eccentric, the characters of &quot;The Wishbones&quot; are also exceeding pedestrian, &quot;normal&quot;, and quite touching.	2000-11-13
US	51688225	R26HYF10IXWDD5	0425169715	771227214	The Wishbones	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Striving for Purpose and the Peter Pan Syndrome	Perrotta has a knack for portraying extremely credible, sympathetic, seemingly familiar characters. Through his depiction of the daily grind and tribulations of his characters he reveals important and insightful observations on human behavior as well as providing an interesting plot.  Accordingly, I found &quot;The Wishbones&quot; readable, rivetting, and thought provoking.<br />This novel's protagonist, Dave, is a type with whom we're all familiar.  Likeable and easy going, his life is stymied by a lack of motivation and a reluctance to be pushed outside his comfort zone.  &quot;The Wishbones&quot; portrays how he comes to recognize how his tendancy toward denial has held him back -- from adventure and success, and is likely to keep him mired in a mundane, stullifying existence.  This is illustrated by his staying in the suburbs, living in his parents' house, remaining with the same girlfriend for 15 years, work in a deadend lackey job, and membership in a mediocre band full of &quot;average&quot; guys, who might be defined as losers. <br />The book explores what is success, and whether it, happiness, and a &quot;normal life&quot; are compatible. While frustrating and occasionally eccentric, the characters of &quot;The Wishbones&quot; are also exceeding pedestrian, &quot;normal&quot;, and quite touching.	2000-11-13
US	51688225	R3FHZUX6KJNJOE	0871138018	342146352	The Toughest Indian in the World	Books	4	5	8	N	N	a philosophical response to discrimination	Like Alexie's earlier work &quot;Long Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven&quot; this is a collection of short stories offering observations on the condition of the American Indians in the midst of an overpowering, and discriminating, Caucasian majority.  However, this collection is more sardonic than bitter, and reflects on the condition of American Indians in a philosophical, stoic, and more upbeat tone, accentuating the positive.<br />While he remains critical and bitingly sarcastic regarding Caucasians (however, all of his remarks are &quot;on-time&quot;)in this work he lightens up a bit, and allows for the good intentions of some Caucasians, and attributes much of their insensitivity to ignorance.  He also that American Indians can have positive relationships with Caucasians based on mutual respect, which suggests a mellowing or maturing on the author's part.  I found his biting comments on American higher education perhaps the most apt, and cynically entertaining in the book.<br />This book incorporates more upbeat and positive components, particularly about those between emotional partners, some of which are quite touching.<br />I find Alexie quite educational, and view reading him as important as it makes me consider a condition of my fellow Americans, as well as a perspective, I wouldn't encounter (or perhaps notice) otherwise.	2000-11-10
US	51688225	R11PWWA4WRFMNY	0060976241	591681693	The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A victim's perspective on prejudice and benign neglect	This collection of Alexie's stories are eloquent, quick reading, and eloquent.  However, white liberals will still find them an awkward and painful read, regardless how enlightened they perceive themselves and whether they are in agreement that American Indians are victims of oppression.  Alexie speaks from the perspective of a victim of white oppression and with understandable resentment, anger, and prejudice against Caucasians.  Many well intentioned whites will find these stories difficult to embrace, and certainly not &quot;enjoyable&quot;. In this respect I found reading these stories reminiscent of the experience reading Elderidge Cleaver's &quot;Soul on Ice&quot; -- awkward and disturbing, but undeniably valid. <br />Alexie's stories are educational, and essential as they introduce us to a perspective and condition with which most Americans are entirely unfamiliar -- decidedly &quot;benign neglect&quot;. While the context is depressing:  poverty, alcoholism, poor self image, an absence of motivation, and the distain, if not active hostility of the majority population, Alexie's tales also are warm and touching.  Despite the destructiveness of the circumstances into which American Indians are born, he describes a proud group self identity (if often ambivalent) and the importance of family and community among American Indians, despite the challenges which work to pull them apart.<br />Sensitive, profound, and often sardonic, these are very important stories and we owe Alexie our gratitude for providing them.	2000-11-08
US	51688225	R3HSX9F6BA6CPG	0786707941	447157825	A House in Sicily	Books	3	17	20	N	N	Admiring in a restrained British manner	Initially it didn't register why this book is distinctive in the expatriot relocation genre.  However, about of a third of the into it one realizes that it is intuitively obvious.  First, this isn't a popular culture ethnography designed to provide charming anecdotes.  A &quot;House in Sicily&quot; is a memoir, and is distinctive as speaking in the voice of an earlier generation.  It reflects values, priorities, and a code of behavior which clearly reflect an more formal, and more genteel time (even though a number of the anecdotes are from the sixties).  The book challenges assumptions later generations might have about this era, because the writer, and those with whom she associated clearly had a progressive and opened minded perspective, despite a seemingly rigid sense of social proprieties.<br />This book isn't a biography; the writer establishes how this house in Sicily became her responsibility, and how events lead that responsibility to change her life.  That being the first half, the remainder of the book consists of selected vignettes from her life describing some of the colorful and eccentric figures who, through word of mouth (among a cerebral set) were encouraged to visit her. <br />The writer speaks in a characteristically restrained, understated English manner.  While she remains proudly, unrelentingly English she is very admiring of Sicilian culture which she represents as a distinctly different, yet dignified and admirable.<br />A quick, enjoyable read; I found myself surprised that it progressed so quickly and found myself wishing for more.	2000-10-30
US	51688225	R8OAY07A6D4RL	042515954X	207304386	Bad Haircut: Stories of the Seventies	Books	4	1	1	N	N	an accurate portrayal of a working class town	Having grown up in a working class metropolitan NY town and having experienced adolescence in the '70s for me this book read like a documentary of my home town during that era.  Perrotta's unvarnished depiction of the issues, priorities, and social stratification (working class, lower professional class, black, white) was strikingly familiar. The author accurately and convincingly speaks with the voice of such people in depicting their pedestrian lives.  Perotta's characters are normal, sympathetic, and unremarkable. He effectively represents the wisdom acquired from day to day life and offers touching and apt insights on the lessons acquired through everyday interactions and typical, normal, human behavior.<br />The book is warm, wise, unpretentious; it reflects common sense  and is thought provoking.	2000-10-25
US	51688225	RIO54238ZE1ZK	042515954X	207304386	Bad Haircut: Stories of the Seventies	Books	4	2	2	N	N	an accurate portrayal of a working class town	Having grown up in a working class metropolitan NY town and having experienced adolescence in the '70s for me this book read like a documentary of my home town during that era.  Perrotta's unvarnished depiction of the issues, priorities, and social stratification (working class, lower professional class, black, white) was strikingly familiar. The author accurately and convincingly speaks with the voice of such people in depicting their pedestrian lives.  Perotta's characters are normal, sympathetic, and unremarkable. He effectively represents the wisdom acquired from day to day life and offers touching and apt insights on the lessons acquired through everyday interactions and typical, normal, human behavior.<br />The book is warm, wise, unpretentious; it reflects common sense  and is thought provoking.	2000-10-25
US	51688225	RKOVTW04EMC0W	076790382X	213092180	I'm a Stranger Here Myself: Notes on Returning to America After 20 Years Away	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A Typical British Perspective on the US	I came across a used copy of &quot;Notes from a Big Country&quot; which was the title for this work when it was published for British readers.  Like other Bryson's works, it has a considerable degree of charm, wit, some sting, and more than a little bit of truth.  American readers will understand and relate to Bryson's experiences and frustrations as an ex-patriot returning home.<br />As with other Bryson books, however, after awhile you want to say &quot;lighten up Bill&quot;.  He even shares that his English born wife responded when reading a draft for one of the articles included in this collection &quot;bitch, bitch, bitch&quot;.  After awhile you do recognize that Bryson was providing what his British audience sought -- pokes and taunts validating their sense of the inadequacy of the United States.  Since Bryson is an Anglophile his comparisons of American and British culture and society are from the perspective that the latter is decidedly superior.<br />While Bryson's criticisms and frustrations are well founded, they would be more palatable if balanced with some favorable observations. While he does share the warmth, generosity and security of his New England community, he then qualifies this segment by noting that a New York transplant advised him &quot;this isn't the real world, its New Hampshire&quot;. While all Americans are not all dull, dim witted sheep who prefer a junk food diet and who are too apathetic to resist unthinking bureaucracy this book leaves one with the impression that this largely Bryson's opinion.<br />While this book isn't entirely negative, one is reminded that humor is well intended when you are laughing &quot;with someone&quot;.  Since this collection, like other Bryson books, primarily laughs &quot;at&quot; the United States you are left with the question &quot;why did Bryson choose to return?&quot;	2000-10-24
US	51688225	R1N4Y0HO32LFXV	0312261845	10488731	Joe College	Books	3	14	20	N	N	A Cad's Self Discovery	Based upon the reviews I had high expectations for this book.  The theme is enticing:  a lower middle class New Jersey guy's adjustment and transformation at a citadel of America's economic and intellectual elite.  The first quarter of the book suggests that it might fulfill the potential of such a plot.  However, it meanders and fizzles out, and concludes with a surrealistic ending incompatible with the rest of the novel.<br />In terms of the broader issues, the protagonist Danny comes across as a callow self centered, albeit good natured, guy who is willing to turn his back as well as step on friends and family rather than let them thwart his chance at escaping blue collar New Jersey after having securing access to America's highest strata at Yale.  While he suffers some minor angst over his increasing detachment from his working class origins he increasingly owns, and justifies, an elitist attitude and values as well as distain for the culture of the hoi polli. This sense of meritocratic entitlement and fear of falling manifests itself in a callous, craven, and callow failure to return  calls, much less confront his responsibility after impregnating a working class girl (from a social set he didn't risk mingling with in high school) who alleviated his boredom one summer home from college. While seemingly macho in confronting mob muscle attempting to frighten him off his father's lunch business route, the impetus appears more his ego, as he shows a callous disregard for the economic and physical danger this presents his family.  <br />The book is honest, it is frank, unfortunately it is probably very realistic.  The protagonist and his self discovery describe a vain man made increasingly unattractive by his quest to secure access to success.  Disappointing, the hubris he meets at the end is insufficiently developed.  After being delayed throughout the novel, the comeuppance warranted further development.<br />I can fully appreciate a dark plot and sinister characters.  However, I really don't think that Perrotta intended to represent Danny as a cad. However, in reality these may accurately be the type of  the characteristics and values acquired by those who secure success by upper movement through academia, where one quickly seeks to distance himself from unrefined origins once receiving access to the &quot;top&quot;.  The book also, uncomfortably perceptively, recognizes the arrogance of those advancing through academia who feel that while they are entitled to such upward movement, others are not.  This novel leads the reader to view the success and values of the meritocracy with a jaundiced eye. However, I don't think that was the author's intent; I think Perrotta wanted to depict the pitfalls which might inexplicably confront a regular working class &quot;good guy&quot; once he earns the access to this rarified strata.	2000-10-20
US	51688225	RFOEN09YFSXQ9	0140296131	200647078	A Star Called Henry (The Last Roundup, Vol. 1)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	How Revolutions Eat Their Children	Those having enjoyed &quot;the Barrytown Trilogy&quot; and &quot;Paddy Clark Ha Ha Ha&quot;, will find this work an abrupt departure from the style and tone of Doyle's earlier works.  Though the other novels incorporate a degree of light heartedness and humor, they are also include substantical characteristically melancholy Irish personal interactions. However, this book's following &quot;The Woman Who Walked into Doors&quot; will lead Doyle devotees to conclude that the author has moved to focus on darker, more morose depictions of human behavior.<br />While Doyle's other works are easy reads,  surreal aspects of the first part of this book, wraught with symbolism, challenge the ability to &quot;get into it&quot; or to sustain interest.  This section focuses on the seamy, unsavory, and just plain revolting aspects of Dublin slum life in the late nineteenth century.  I found that the overstatement not only left me with a queasy feeling but undermined the reality of what Doyle attempted to portray.<br />The remainder of the novel is both educational and insightful.  Those lacking familiarity with the Irish Easter Rebellion and subsequent civil war will probably have difficulty appreciating what is being described and conveyed.  However, despite a considerably amount of distracting hyperbole (e.g.:  Henry's superhuman height, strength, maturity, sexual prowess) the book offers some profound observations which transcend the period and events being described.  Doyle accurately describes the Irish revolution as being only a revolt, where the British bureaucracy and petty bourgeoise was replaced by a nearly identical Irish counterparts, and that the opportunity for such superficial changes was what motivated many in the Irish uprising.  He reflects how access to power subverts guiding principles (if they ever in fact existed) corrupts those who might have initially been led by noble objectives, and prompts colleagues to ruthlessly abandon and attempt to crush former comrades who might now stand in the way of their material advancement.  Apt, but chilling and depressing observations on government, society and human relations.<br />This is a powerful book, but the excessive overstatement, symbolism, and hyperbole detract from the profound and crucial observations.	2000-10-11
US	51688225	R2QEFPK453G2RT	0670892742	232409532	Cherry: A Memoir	Books	3	55	66	N	N	Not a sequel to The Liar's Club	&quot;The Liars' Club&quot; is such a beautiful, touching, and profound memoir that it takes your breath away.  Clearly, such a work is a hard &quot;act&quot; to follow.  Unfortunately, this has been represented as a sequel to &quot;The Liars' Club&quot; setting the expectations bar very high.  While this book is ok, it comes as a disappointment in light of the expectations that have been established by the hype.<br />First, it is important to note that this really isn't a sequel.  &quot;The Liars' Club&quot; was a poignant description of her parents tumultuous marriage as viewed through the eyes of a child, and a heart wrenching tribute to her father. Her parents are decidedly in the background in &quot;Cherry&quot; with her father being no more than a footnote.  However, Karr's mother plays a sympathetic supporting role as a farsighted, sensitive and progressive, albeit eccentric, mother for an adolescent girl.<br />Unlike her former memoir, &quot;Cherry&quot; is primarily about Mary Karr and about her angst as a teenager and her distinctive transformation as an adolescent in light of a highly untraditional and unorthodox upbringing in a decidedly traditional blue collar town.  I found Karr's depiction of the town's relative tolerance of individual idiosyncracies particularly gratifying in light of the erroneous stereotypes often attributed to working class communities and Texas as a whole.<br />Karr offers important, albeit subtle, socioeconomic observations on the disenfranchisement of the working class, particularly in light of the disillusionment and subsequent changes in social mores which arose during the Vietnam War era (though those social structures were more important to the middle class as Karr's representation of the working class suggests).  However, some of the recollections seemed disjointed, or out of focus, perhaps intentionally in her depiction of the search for purpose in an often drug induced haze.<br />I think the reaction to this book will definitely be mixed.  It would probably have been better received if it preceded &quot;The Liars' Club&quot; or if the reader didn't know they were written by the same author.	2000-10-11
US	51688225	R288KJCQNSODYK	0786866462	711918396	A Density of Souls	Books	3	6	11	N	N	A Southern Gothic Offering	This novel incorporates any and all elements one envisions as stereotypically southern gothic:  adultery, murder, rape, incest, homosexuality, betrayal, intrigue.  While the book is readable and interesting this myriad assortment doesn't necessarily make the best combination.  Reflecting on them, the combination almost seems forced.<br />After reading the NY Times review, I was interested its description of a complex novel of nemesis following adolescent betrayal and brutalization by former childhood friends.  However, while the symbolism is often well developed and interesting, the plot isn't plausible, and the reliance on stereotypes diminishes the reader's sympathy for the characters and undermines the plot.  The aesthetically sensitive central character Stephen,  with magnetic eyes, continually and excessively breaks into tears.  The one culturally sensitive football player ends up being a closeted gay man and a GQ jock who attends Princeton ends up &quot;switching teams&quot; only after which he displays humanity.  The straight football players are all simplisitically depicted as brutal and barbaric.<br />The array of disfunctional characters all have access to scads of money but no one seems to work.  While the symbolism and metaphors in the gotterdammerung denouement (excuse the mixed metaphor) which have been woven throughtout the novel are interesting, it crams in too much fantastic and implausible action, including a quasi crucifixion in the midst of a Noah's ark type calamity (you can even read in some Sodom and Gommorah symbolism) in the effort to have a profound conclusion.<br />A good first novel, however, it would have benefitted from some further development, particularly at the conclusion.  One imagines that Mr. Rice's future efforts will be better.	2000-10-10
US	51688225	R3IUHYE8F8RONV	0553502654	696295159	The Golden Age	Books	2	15	20	N	N	an unfocused and disappointing final volume	Having savored Vidal's irreverent, sardonic interpretations of various eras in Americna History I had always hoped that he would fill the void with a &quot;final&quot; volume about the pre and post World War II era.  He has proved the ability to be more than just iconoclastic and shocking, however, as evidenced by the sound scholarship and sympathetic representation of the era in his novel &quot;Lincoln&quot;.  Therefore, I was pleased and excited when I learned that this work was coming out and I looked forward to Vidal's interpretation of this rich and fascinating period.  It is an understatement, however, to say that I found this effort disappointing.  I think the author forfeited the opportunity to effectively interpret an era about which his previous readers would particularly value his perspective.<br />Vidal has a distinctive viewpoint in terms of nostaglia for the days when the United States was still a republic, and offers ongoing, valid, and entertaining (albeit, often also depressing) criticism of the nation's transformation to an empire.  While perhaps obvious, I anticipated Vidal fully exploring the extent to which this became true during the World War II era.  However, it seems as if he's run out of steam and was too tired, or jaded, to bother in this work.<br />He does offer interesting and characteristically gossipy passages about the Roosevelts and some members of that administration.  Additionally, he offers some interesting insights about Truman (though most are predictable).  However, he entirely bypasses the war itself, and most of the McCarthy era, concluding with a surrealistic ending at the time of the millenium in which he inserts himself. Not only does the end seem a nonsequitur, it comes across as a vain self indulgence.<br />Based upon my established admiration for Vidal, finishing the book I felt badly for him and found myself wishing that this hadn't been written.  It is certainly not in keeping with the quality of his previous work.	2000-09-20
US	51688225	RC7CSYCTBJJGQ	0446673706	356722115	Indian Killer	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Troubling, but an unacknowledged perspective	For years many people have extolled to me the virtues of Sherman Alexie and I waited until sufficiently inspired to begin reading his works.  I was  advised, however, that this is both one of his weakest and most disturbing  novels after I had begun it.  Nevertheless, I found it very well written  and engaging.<br />While I have a profound sense of sadness for the plight of  American Indians and tremendous guilt that I live a fortunate life while  they, for the most part, are in need, I am not offended to read of the  prejudice of American Indians toward white Americans.  They certainly come  by it honestly.  I found the perspective one with which I had been largely  unacquainted heretofore and was glad to read something from this viewpoint.   It is clearly a victim's perspective, not unlike that which one finds in  much black American literature, and I believe it important for white people  to experience.  Clearly it is thought provoking and disconcerting, and  probably makes many whites.  Well, it's reality and we need to know that  Indians aren't living the romanticized lives we might imagine, as well as  to expose ourselves to that which we need to realize.<br />Alexie's metaphors  are interesting and distinguish his from other literature I have read.   Besides his creativity and skill, I learned a good deal about the history  of American Indians in the Northwest, and about their plight in the city  where I live (Seattle).  Alexie clearly resents and distains the chic,  comfortable liberalism of white bourgeois Seattle, and points out its  unwitting ignorance with regard to the circumstances of the minorities that  are its neighbors.<br />While touching in its depiction of the importance of  family and community in American Indian culture,this is not an uplifting or  entertaining novel.  However, it will hopefully sensitize readers to the  real situation of many, maybe most, American Indians.	2000-09-20
US	51688225	R1DFZT21BVIHUD	0684873893	65279771	The Blackwater Lightship : A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A poignant, eloquent representation of repressed emotions	Colm Toibin's novels powerfully depict human emotions in an eloquent and  understated fashion.  This is perhaps the best of his four novels.<br />The  story is melancholy, yet besides the sadness underlying the detachment and  anger of the protagonist, Helen, one develops a sense of admiration for her  fortitude, resistence to pain, pragmatism and insightfulness.  The  Blackwater Lightship is a complex web of family relationships which  describes how often only a crisis can enable relatives to surmount the  bitterness and distrust arising from loss and betrayal.<br />As Toibin's most  recent previos novel dealt with gay men confronting aids, one might  initially assume that this novel is of a similar focus as the circumstance  which pulls together the polarized characters is the imminent death of a  brother, son, and grandson from aids.  However, the story is written from  the perspective of a strong woman, and the tragedy of her brother's death  provides the catalyst for confronting her alienation from her mother and  grandmother in order to embrace them into the nuclear family of her husband  and two sons.<br />A dignified emotionally touching novel, its power arising  from powerful insights and sparing prose.	2000-09-13
US	51688225	R1C23JG37JLR8T	0151005079	332872233	The Lost Legends of New Jersey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	bittersweet, warm, philosophical	This is a warm, touching book, insightful and full of depth.  It is  particularly interesting as it reflects a distinctly Jewish American world  view.  Accordingly, it reflects the wisdom, the search for truth, and  purpose one typically associates with that subculture.  One is struck,  however, by how happiness alludes these intelligent, productive characters  who Reiken suggests are indicative of Jewish upper middle class New  Jersey.<br />The author effectively represents the quest for happiness and the  longing for satisfaction of the generation which came to maturity in the  '60's and '70's mirrored in the eyes of its children.  Besides the  melancholy reflected in its adults, the book is sad in depicting the impact  of the parents' emotional tribulations on the latest generation, yet it is  bittersweet and full of hope in reflecting the resilience and promise of  the emerging generation.  However, he only brushes, and disappointingly  alludes tangently to the influence of the last generation (in this case the  grandparents of the recorder) and how its influence largely determined the  choices with which their children now struggle.<br />While I savored the  familiar cultural references, I was also struck by how separate and apart  the Jewish subculture is which Reiken describes.  That he effectively and  convincingly depicts this group suggests that this is his own reference.   However, he ineffectively represents parallel Christian, and specifically  Italian American culture which he portrays in a primitive, rough, almost  raw manner indicative of negative stereotypes.<br />The book is satisfying,  moving, and quite worth reading.	2000-09-05
US	51688225	R1HECKF7GHNXH	0151005079	332872233	The Lost Legends of New Jersey	Books	4	0	2	N	N	bittersweet, warm, philosophical	This is a warm, touching book, insightful and full of depth.  It is  particularly interesting as it reflects a distinctly Jewish American world  view.  Accordingly, it reflects the wisdom, the search for truth, and  purpose one typically associates with that subculture.  One is struck,  however, by how happiness alludes these intelligent, productive characters  who Reiken suggests are indicative of Jewish upper middle class New  Jersey.<br />The author effectively represents the quest for happiness and the  longing for satisfaction of the generation which came to maturity in the  '60's and '70's mirrored in the eyes of its children.  Besides the  melancholy reflected in its adults, the book is sad in depicting the impact  of the parents' emotional tribulations on the latest generation, yet it is  bittersweet and full of hope in reflecting the resilience and promise of  the emerging generation.  However, he only brushes, and disappointingly  alludes tangently to the influence of the last generation, in this case the  grandparents of the recorder, and how its influence largely determined the  choices with which their children now struggle.<br />While I savored the  familiar cultural references, I was also struck by how separate and apart  the Jewish subculture is which Reiken describes.  That he effectively and  convincingly depicts this group suggests that this is his own reference.   However, he ineffectively represents parallel Christian, and specifically  Italian American culture which he portrays in a primitive, rough, almost  raw manner indicative of negative stereotypes.<br />The book is satisfying,  moving, and quite worth reading.	2000-09-05
US	51688225	R2EBE0W3TOCD2Z	0151005079	332872233	The Lost Legends of New Jersey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	bittersweet, warm, philosophical	This is a warm, touching book, insightful and full of depth.  It is  particularly interesting as it reflects a distinctly Jewish American world  view.  Accordingly, it reflects the wisdom, the search for truth, and  purpose one typically associates with that subculture.  One is struck,  however, by how happiness alludes these intelligent, productive characters  who Reiken suggests are indicative of Jewish upper middle class New  Jersey.<br />The author effectively represents the quest for happiness and the  longing for satisfaction of the generation which came to maturity in the  '60's and '70's mirrored in the eyes of its children.  Besides the  melancholy reflected in its adults, the book is sad in depicting the impact  of the parents' emotional tribulations on the latest generation, yet it is  bittersweet and full of hope in reflecting the resilience and promise of  the emerging generation.  However, he only brushes, and disappointingly  alludes tangently to the influence of the last generation (in this case the  grandparents of the recorder) and how its influence largely determined the  choices with which their children now struggle.<br />While I savored the  familiar cultural references, I was also struck by how separate and apart  the Jewish subculture is which Reiken describes.  That he effectively and  convincingly depicts this group suggests that this is his own reference.   However, he ineffectively represents parallel Christian, and specifically  Italian American culture which he portrays in a primitive, rough, almost  raw manner indicative of negative stereotypes.<br />The book is satisfying,  moving, and quite worth reading.	2000-09-05
US	51688225	RP891081CYSH5	0060920084	754387444	The Lost Continent: Travels in Small-Town America	Books	3	14	21	N	N	Initially entertaining, but quickly becomes tired	Since I am iconoclastic and have a sardonic sense of humor a number of friends told me how hysterical this book was prompting me to buy it.   However, I had reservations based upon my disappointment with Bryson's  &quot;Notes from a Small Island&quot;.  About half way through this book my  sentiments with this book were similar.  Initially his observations make  you laugh, but they soon begin to sound shrill and sometimes mean.  The  ongoing descriptons of gluttonous and overweight Americans quickly become  old and ring unkind.  They are also ironic from someone who continually  describes retiring to his hotel room with a six pack and a package of  Reeses cups.<br />For those who enjoy sardonic humor the book starts out  strong.  Bryson skewers mundane, middle brow, consumption obsessed American  culture.  However, Bryson often undermines his valid points about the  suffocation of America's small towns due to those proliferation of soleless  strip malls along the highways lining the communities' outskirts.  The  author is an unabashed Anglophile and rather than simply allowing these apt  observations to stand by themselves he diminishes them by pointing out how  these American communities pale in his eyes when compared with those of  Britain.  He also suggests that welcoming, seemingly credulous,Americans  are somehow less capable, even less intelligent, and certainly less  sophisticated (in his opinion) than their British counterparts.<br />Clearly  there are many things than can be improved in the United States and we have  wasted much of our heritage through unrestained commericalism and  development. However, Philadelphia is more than a slum, New York is more  than a citadel of crime and depravity, and there are certainly more than a  few handsome, viable, culturally sophisticated communities in the entire  United States.  At the end of his tour of the country he clearly  nostalgically, but almost begrudeonly, warms to and acknowledges that there  are some positive aspects of American culture, At that point, however, the  reader has become alienated.  Many of us realize what is lacking in many of  our communities and we don't need Bill Bryson to validate what's right  about the United States or much less  to suggest that England is the ideal  prototype for us to model.	2000-09-01
US	51688225	R1D04YOJQRG83W	0679771867	223977650	The American Way of Death Revisited	Books	5	17	23	N	N	Mendacity and hypocracy -- fascinating, and infuriating	My parents always said that American funerals were barbaric.  After reading this book I fully understand and entirely agree with that sentiment.  However, this book is not only an apt social commentary, it is  an important study of a morally corrupt industry whose exploitation of the  emotionally devastated, the ignorant, and even those otherwise very savy is  enabled by effective use of political lobbying.<br />The descriptions of  embalming, and cosmetic &quot;restoration&quot; of the dead are macabre and  nauseating and leave you with a sense of shame over this primitive,  barbaric, and entirely unnecessary process which is largely confined to the  United States. The descriptions of the cynical manipulation and obscene  economic exploitation of grieving relatives are enraging.  The funeral  industry's effective lobbying of governmental officials in order to  deliberately confuse families by obscuring their rights with arcane legal  codes leaves you feeling both impotent and cynical about the political  process.<br />An important but extremely depressing book.  The facts are  alleviated by the author's sardonic wit and &quot;dead pan&quot;  presentation of the many vulgar, tacky, and sadly absurd aspects of the  funeral industry.  A sort of &quot;consumer reports&quot; for those who  will deal with the &quot;final effects&quot; of lost ones, it is essential  reading in order to protect yourself. . . from being a taken advantage of. . .	2000-08-31
US	51688225	R2GON1HBZAAUGH	0802136729	139351741	Lord of the Barnyard: Killing the Fatted Calf and Arming the Aware in the Cornbelt	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Brilliant, savage, electrifying	Intellectually this is clearly one of the major books of this generation.  If comparisons must be drawn, it is reminiscent of both Ralph Ellison's  &quot;Invisible Man&quot; and the works of Sinclair Lewis.  While during  the first review it is curiosity that keeps you proceeding through the  rich, intricate plot you realize simultaneously that this is a work which  will require careful re-reading several times in order to both discern and  savor the complex imagery.<br />&quot;Lord of the Barnyard&quot; is a savage  social commentary on small town life in America, American industry (with  segments that read like Upton Sinclair's &quot;The Jungle&quot;) and the  lumpen proletariat it spawns, the hypocracy of organized religion, and the  objectives of government, education and other social institutions.  Only  towards the end of the work did I comprehend that the protagonist, John  Kaltenbrunner, represents a modern day Christ-like figure.<br />I suspect that  in coming years this will become required reading in upper division  university literature, conceptual history, and sociology courses.  One is  struck by the breath, depth and insights from an author who is so young.  &quot;Lord of the Barnyard&quot; is powerful and exhilarating, like black  coffee or 151 rum.  It is one of the finest books I have ever read.	2000-08-21
US	51688225	R27G3HQWRPVI3X	0312242360	425833090	Round Ireland with a Fridge	Books	3	19	27	N	N	Sweet, cute, silly, and entertaining, but hardly uproarious	This is a fine book if you seek a light, fun read. If you have an taste for the cute, the sweet and the absurd you'll find it entertaining.  However, in terms of what you might expect based upon the setting and  title, and recognizing how much more the book could have been, it is  somewhat disappointing. <br />As Hawks stresses, his is a pointless exercise  and adventure.  The fact that he enjoys such success, and encounters so  many kind, good hearted people who are above taking themselves too  seriously, and who are willing to play along and help him in his  hitchhiking journey, is uplifting.  Furthermore one is touched by the  unhesitating generosity that he encounters.  He comes to some realizations  about the importance of human relationships which are truly substantive and  profound.  They are presumably the underlying thesis, and make the book  worth reading.<br />What detracts from the book is how Hawks contrasts most of  Ireland from the more serious minded, task oriented world.  While his  intent is probably to draw a favorable contrast between Irish priorities  and attitudes and those of other cultures, particularly the English who  Hawks uses as his reference, he unwittingly betrays typically British  attitudes about the Irish.  This comes across through subtly condescending  descriptions which convey the impression that he finds the Irish less  productive, less focused, less mature, and even childlike.  He also  continually reinforces the negative stereotype that the Irish typically  spend much of their time in ongoing, excessive consumption of alcohol. The  book almost suggests that &quot;only in Ireland...&quot;.  Maybe it would  be less grating if the writer weren't English.<br />This would be a good book  to read on the plane or by the pool.  However, don't expect to learn much  about Ireland, or even the Irish by buying it.	2000-08-15
US	51688225	R1JLA0WBEOVPLC	158234082X	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	2	11	19	N	N	somewhat interesting, though vulgar and disappointing	I anticipated some shock value being associated with this book.  However, there are relatively few titillating facts or revelations in this book.   Unfortunately, it largely diminishes the respect of readers who recognize  the yeoman work and assume artistry being inherent in chef's  work.<br />Perhaps Mr. Bourdain does accurately summarize the mindset and  lifestyle of chefs and their kitchen staffs.  I suspect, however, that he  is more likely to be describing the restaurant scene in Manhattan than  accurately summarizing it nationally, much less across the world.   Bourdain's depiction of his experience with the fastidious and quality  focused Tokyo restaurant scene undermines his thesis that the book's  earlier characterizations are universal.<br />It is discouraging, because Mr.  Bourdain effectively develops in the reader a distain for the profession  and those drawn to it, leaving one with the impression that it is a magnet  for maladjusted low lives who have, at best, marginal ethics.  <br />This is a  cynical and egotistical work.  Mr. Bourdain acknowledges, and wallows in  his excessively positive self image.  He goes to extreme lengths in an  effort to prove that this is a manly profession, salting it with excessive  (and unnecessary) vulgarity, references to aberrant -- albeit heterosexual  -- predelictions and practices, and numerous homophobic remarks.  Yawn.   This simply indicates significant insecurity and a poor self image not far  from the surface.  Perhaps I am inferring this from the author's continual  allusions to his former drug addiction and significant consumption of  alcohol and tobacco throughout the book.<br />While the gourmand willl find a  number of passages somewhat informative and interesting, ultimately this is  a depressing book.  It leaves you with a sense of distain, distrust, and  some pity for those in the restaurant business, who you are left thinking  work too hard for too little and waste their lives.  One suspects, and  hopes, it is more autobiography than an accurate description of the  profession.	2000-08-15
US	51688225	R21N0CH5EXMNF	0375702652	214478863	Chasing Che: A Motorcycle Journey in Search of the Guevara Legend	Books	5	32	35	N	N	engaging, informative,  esoteric	I was drawn to this book more because of a well established attraction to  South America than a particular interest in Che Guevara.  This book was particularly satisfying because it spoke to my interests, expanded my  understanding of Guevera, and described a rivetting adventure.<br />Mr. Symmes  is impressive from a variety of perspectives.  You are struck by his  spirit, endurance and &quot;guts&quot; striving to replicate the Guevara's  gritty adventure of the '50's.  Curiosity to see whether Symmes and his BMW  bike &quot;Kookie&quot; will complete the marathon alone keeps you reading.   However, besides admiring his daring and iconoclasm, you find that Symmes  is a solid scholar and a fine wordsmith.<br />The book provides an accurate  and informative description of the depradations of the recent military  dictatorships in Argentina and Chile, and points out the irony of how, long  after he was dead, Guevara contributed to their emergence.  Symmes also  provides a moving description of the centuries old fate of the Latin  American poor in Peru and Bolivia as well. While &quot;up close&quot;  experience has made his perspective justifiably left of center he  effectively makes his case by sticking to the unvarnished facts.  He  refrains from offering any half baked neo-Marxist aphorisms, and provides  balance by noting the arrogance, chauvanism, pointless brutality, and  ultimate hubris of Guevara, as well as the Machiavellian meglomania of  Castro. The book's thesis is that Guevara the symbol and myth have  ultimately have had far more global impact than any of the achievements of  Guevara the man.<br />This book is educational, moving, and thought provoking  whether you are left or right on the political spectrum.  If you know  little about Latin America or Che, you will learn quite a bit about this  often ignored part of the world.	2000-08-01
US	51688225	R2KXPJ0R4BB6C1	0684853779	999464161	Bobos in Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Apt, entertaining, but not quite on target	This work by Brooks's is hot because it is timely and depicts a self conscious group which enjoys being characterized, provided that it is being laughed with and not at.  However, while Brooks describes significant, and  conspicious, cohorts of the meritocracy his definitions are somewhat off  the mark. <br />It is inappropriate to depict this element as bourgeois  bohemians; Brooks describes a decidedly bourgeois group of people.  What  seems to elude him (or perhaps is a part of his denial as a group member)  is that anything bohemian in this life style is clearly an affection.  This  group of the affluent, highly educated assumes bohemian affections to  demonstrate their extensive education and experience -- things attributable  to affluence and bourgeois application.  Their interest in developing  cultures reflected in dress, diet, and material acquisitions is not  indicative of some adoption of bohemian interests and mores; it is a means  of indicating the breath of their cultural knowledge, and is often a  pretext for demonstrating how well traveled they are.  This is proven by  the group's separation from anything untidy, unpredictable, or unpleasant  inherent in peasant or working class culture.  Occasionally they  &quot;slum&quot; because it is chic.  This isn't new, for example, many  WASPs were devotees of the Harlem Renaissance.<br />Brooks also asserts,  incorrectly, that the WASP upper crust has been displaced by a new,  affluent, highly educated, multicultural meritocracy.  This is hardly the  case; the WASP upper crust has proved adaptable and is quite secure.  It  only surrendered that for which it has deemed not worth fighting.   Brooks  assumes that because WASPs are no longer the conspicuously dominant group  in many managerial roles that they are in decline.  What eludes Brooks is  that a low profile and understatement are integral parts of WASP culture.   As  technology has increased the spotlight on most upper income careers  traditional WASPshave sought the shadows.  That the WASP role in American  society remains secure is reflected by the aping by non-WASPs of many  characteristics of white bread WASP culture (albeit, fortunately not the  diet).  This is reflected by their striving to attend citadels of WASP  education -- prep schools and Ivy and little Ivy colleges and universities,  as well marketing of Ralph Lauren, the resurgence of Brooks Brothers, and  ironically everything sold by Renovation Hardware. &quot;Newly&quot;  popular recreational pursuits he describes such as fly fishing, hiking, and  mountain biking have always been elements of WASP leisure. The WASPs  remain, their institutions are secure (if now accepting parvenue revenue),  they are still proportionately overrepresented in most professions  governing society, and entrance to their enclaves still remains elusive to  those who are not members of their tribe.<br />The author's descriptions also  seem to attempt to define this group as the new upper class.  Instead, what  he describes is the upper middle class in America, still a small  percentage, however, of the total population. He also seems to view his own  experiences as reflective of the entire meritocracy he attempts to  describe, which is probably inaccurate.  Wayne, Pennsylvania is hardly  reflective of all highly educated, enlightened, upper income communities in  the nation (at least one hopes).  In conclusion, it is interesting that  Brooks attempts to draw such a distinction between &quot;yuppies&quot; and  his &quot;bohos&quot;; there seems to be no difference.  Regardless, both  are what for centuries have been called the nouveau riche, albeit a  consistently well educated segment.	2000-07-26
US	51688225	R3UL48ZIIEUICG	0375407251	68265959	The Many Aspects of Mobile Home Living	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Brilliant, complex, skillfully intricate	I define a good book or good movie as one which will linger in your mind for days after you have finished it.  Accordingly, I found this work very satisfying; in fact, I would describe it as one of the best crafted I've  read in quite a while.<br />Despite what the title suggests, this is not a  tale of poor white trash in the Daniel Woodrell genre, nor a  stereotypically eccentric &quot;southern&quot; adventure.  While  comparisons with &quot;Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil&quot; will  be made, Mr. Clark's skillful shaping of this complex mystery is comparable  to the talent of David Guterson in &quot;Snow Falling on Cedars&quot;,  albeit with a Hunter Thompsonese backdrop.  In other words, Mr. Clark is  gifted with his own distinct style.<br />I typically pass up mysteries;  however, this one had me rivetted, and was so clever and intriguing that I  resisted the urge to skim ahead despite the urge to discover the outcome.   With each new, unanticipated, but cleverly foreshadowed, twist I became  that much more impressed with the author.<br />This story of a restless,  jaded, young judge from a comfortable background for whom professional  advancement came too easily and has proved unsatisfying will strike a cord  with yuppie readers. Clark creatively represents the ennui of a segment of  this privileged, good natured, social strata and the resulting self  destructiveness .  The book dexterously weaves waste, cynicism, corruption,  spirituality, and redemption in a fasinating tale. The book would be  flawless if author had invested more time in refining the last fifth of the  book.  Unfortunately the somewhat surrealistic conclusion almost seems to  rush into a happy ending that is not consistent with the skillfully crafted  passages which precede it.<br />This is a fine work, one the most distinctive  I have read in recent years.  I would (and will) strongly recommend it.	2000-06-20
US	51688225	R2UKT9W2EAD393	0679769595	740328184	Thin Ice: Coming of Age in Canada	Books	1	13	17	N	N	Sad, bitter, depressing	Wanting to know more about Canadian perspectives on the United States, and attracted by quotes indicating that P. J. O'Rourke and Peter Jennings found it very humorous, I bought this book.  Unfortunately, I was once again  reminded not to attribute too much credit to quotes from reviews printed on  a book's cover.  This is a far from humorous work; rather, it is a painful  read.<br />McCall's memoir is a bitter reflection on his childhood in Canada.   His depiction of the Canada in which he was raised seems to arise from  inductive reasoning:  since his was a poor, emotionally uncommunicative,  and disfunctional family he attributes those same attributes to the entire  nation.  Since McCall's personal life only took an upturn upon his  immigration to the United States in retrospect everything American in his  youth was bright, colorful, luxurious and exciting; things from Canada on  the other hand were grey, utilitarian, and boring.  Americans were fun and  vigorous; Canadians dour and laconic.<br />McCall's memoir constitutes an  unrelenting denunciation of his parents' rearing of their children. His  mother is depicted as a tragic, downtrodden, alcoholic who withdrew into  alcohol as an escape from the burden of six children and a domineering,  unsupportive husband.  His description of his father is severe:  mean,  tyrannical, selfish, belittling.  The denunciations are so excessive that  about two thirds through the book the one wonders whether McCall doesn't  regret missing the opportunity to drive a stake through his father's heart.   He describes a stark childhood entirely devoid of love, happiness, or  material comforts and attributes all his failures and personality quirks  and those of his siblings to their upbringing.  <br />This was a hard book to  plow through, much less finish.  It is a sad, depressing memoir which would  have been better kept within the McCall family; the writer makes an apt  observation in the beginning of the book when he expresses concern about  how his siblings will receive this recollection of their childhood.<br />I  really regret buying this book and the time I invested in reading it.   Under no circumstances would I recommend it to others.	2000-06-19
US	51688225	R2HSYVW2XIHU1A	0375410287	138494613	Driving Over Lemons: An Optimist in Andalucia	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Warm, touching, uplifting	Those expecting a description of Spain akin to Mayles of Provence or Mayes of Tuscany will be momentarily disappointed.  However, one quickly becomes invested in finishing this warm, engaging memoir.<br />There are no  descriptions of fine wines, imcomparable meals, or other such rich treats.   Instead this is a tale of an English couple that eschews the bourgeois  lifestyle and seeks a simpler lifestyle in rural Spain.  The leitmotif for  the book could be summed up as carpe diem.  The result is a touching  description of evolving understanding of a different culture, appreciation  and respect for the challenges of an agrarian lifestyle, and the importance  of human relationships.<br />Throughout one is struck by what a kind hearted,  genuinely good, and often frustratingly credulous person Chris Stewart is.   He has an endearing capacity for laughing at himself and chalking up losses  and set backs as part of the cost of change. Much of the book's humor is  derived from the characteristically deadpan British understatement and  irony, and the assortment of interesting and eccentric characters to whom  the Stewarts are drawn and also attract.<br />Stewart's growing relationship  with his laconic, multitalented neighbor Domingo is particularly heart  warming.  One is struck by the neighor's acumen, unceasing generosity, and  ongoing willingness to aid the often fumbling Stewart.  There is a  particularly moving chapter about &quot;understanding the water&quot; where  Stewart reveals his immense gratitude and respect to Domingo by expressing  the hope to earn his respect someday.<br />This is a lovely, uplifting, fun  book depicting the growth of a family and the development of a new, and  perhaps more essential, lifestyle.  I felt better for having read it.	2000-06-13
US	51688225	R149E8VANWBG0B	0140249281	620102767	The White House Mess	Books	1	8	19	N	N	lame, toothless, anemic	Having savored, and highly recommended Buckley's &quot;Thank You for Smoking&quot;, &quot;Little Green Men&quot;, and &quot;Wry Martinis&quot; I was severely disappointed by this book.  Frankly, I find it astonishing  that this has the same author.  It does, however, sound like a comic novel  which would have produced by George H. Bush's speechwriter.  After reading  it I now understand why Washington insiders George Will and Bob Woodward  praised it as uproarious.<br />This is an entirely safe book; you could  recommend it to an elderly spinster aunt, or a conservative clergyman  without any fear of offense.  It is tame middlebrow humor reminiscent of  the &quot;daily chuckle&quot; one might find in a small town paper.  I  found it hard to believe that it was written in the '80's by a man who was  still in his thirties; it reminds me of the type of satire Art Buchwald  wrote in the '60's.  The average television sitcom has more wit and punch  and is far more riske. <br />This involves a parody of a presidency in no way  reminiscent of others beset by one tame crises after another. It is totally  devoid of the rapier wit, irony, and irreverance one finds in Buckley's  later works.  The book takes no risks and no group could be bruised. As I  struggled to get through it I never cracked a smile.	2000-06-12
US	51688225	R22BET6Y7L4Y3W	0767903188	818206855	On Mexican Time: A New Life in San Miguel	Books	3	6	8	N	N	More Mayes than Mayle	I bought this book based on descriptions that it was in the same vein as Peter Mayle's descriptions of Provence.  Consequently, I was set up for considerable disappointment. Unlike Mayle's lighthearted, and occasionally  self deprecating depictions, this work is more about Cohan's reflections  and soul searching than about San Miguel, Mexico.  <br />The mid-life angst  Cohan shares seems to echo that of Frances Mayes in her &quot;Under the  Tuscan Sun&quot;.  Where Mayes bemoans the shackles of her answering  machine, Cohan laments the oppression of an existence at the mercy of home  security systems in Los Angeles.<br />Much of his work is the rant of a  stereotypic ex-patriot:  the US is shallow, materialistic, success  oriented; Mexico is kind, cultured, and humanistic.  However, Cohan and his  wife are periodically required to return to Sodom to finance their  existence in Xanadu resulting in descriptions of the increasingly culture  shock they experience in the US, only decompressing upon their return to  mellow Mexico.  Yawn.<br />His descriptions of San Miguel and Mexico are  genuinely interesting as is his description of various home improvement  projects (again reminiscent of Mayes).  These save the book and make  reading it worthwhile, but it's hardly a &quot;refreshing&quot; or even a  particularly uplifting read.	2000-06-03
US	51688225	R2OLQHEUKW95WI	0385333862	94741593	The Running Mate	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Entertaining, engaging, touching	Those expecting a irreverent and occasionally outrageous lampoon of current Washington politicians comparable to that in &quot;Primary Colors&quot; will be disappointed.  However, being interested after having  read that book,I was surprised and pleased to find &quot;the Running  Mate&quot; a good read despite the lukewarm popular press reviews this work  has received.<br />Like &quot;Primary Colors&quot; the protagonist is a thinly  veiled version of Nebraska senator Bob Kerry.  However, Klein clearly  admires the model for this character and represents him in a favorable,  sensitive light, as opposed to going for the jugular as he did in his  earlier book's caricature of Clinton.<br />While it has its moments, unlike  &quot;Primary Colors&quot; this is not a cynical work. It sensitively  depicts and celebrates the diversity of the nation such as its warm  descriptions of the midwest and admiring representation of the iconoclasm  typical of New York.  It also touchingly describes the profound and often  sad impact of the Vietnam experience upon a generation of our &quot;best  and brightest&quot; many of whom currently seek to lead the nation.  This  book incorporates a considerable amount of optimism absent in &quot;Primary  Colors&quot;.<br />Like &quot;Primary Colors&quot; it has mystery like  qualities which keep you riveted.  Unexpectedly it is also a romantic  novel, though Klein might have been advised that some of the intimate  scenes, while tame, diminish the book.  <br />This book lacks shock value and  does not attempt to draw blood.  Though far less sardonic, it is  interesting, engaging, and touching.  While not a statement piece I found  it quite enjoyable.	2000-06-02
US	51688225	R1TNX1CCBV5E8K	0805051309	119057404	The Debt to Pleasure: A Novel	Books	5	9	10	N	N	a must for the dark, sardonic, epicurean	I must say that I was very pleased with myself after finishing this novel, because reading it was actually work, albeit in a satisfying way. Potential readers should be advised to keep a dictionary handy.<br />This book requires  effort because it is too well written to rush through, and to fully  comprehend and, more importantly, savor the passages one needs to devote  the requisite time to absorb them.  It is written in that typically dry,  droll, understated British fashion that makes you laugh on the  inside.<br />Initially, although I appreciated the work, I felt I needed a  break because, while clever, I wanted to read something that moved faster  even if less cerebral.  However, about a third through the book suddenly  begins to surprise you by presenting new and unexpected twists which keep  you throughly engaged.<br />This book is a must for the dark, sardonic,  epicurean whose teeth began to hurt, and needed something  &quot;wicked&quot; after reading Peter Mayle and Frances Mayes.	2000-06-01
US	51688225	R2BVES3WQ902ZU	0609606727	574254744	Julie and Romeo: A Novel	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Warm, wise, and entertaining	While the title, and basic theme might sound trite and tired, this is truly a wonderful reflection on human relationships.  Ray's work is full of keen insight insights and wisdom and profound in an understated, matter of  a fact way. <br />The major protagonist, Julie, is reminiscent of those rare,  wise, older people we occasionally have the good fortune to encounter who  have grown patient and tolerant through life times of experience. After her  husband leaves her for a trophy bride she finds herself a single struggling  small town florist, who has also become caretaker for a daughter, whose  marriage also failed, and two grandchildren. Rather than wallowing in self  pity, she is pragmatic and  focuses on day to day essentials -- work and  family, and has come to accentuate the positive, having come to recognize  that prejudice and anger are self indulgences which thwart happiness and  success.  She is caught by surprise by the opportunity for a personal  happiness and satisfaction she had forgotten could exist, in the form of  her family's personal, and professional nemesis, her town's rival florist.   <br />Ray effectively and humorously depicts the dogmatism and impetuousness  of the young who unblinkingly embrace the prejudices of their families.   She also eloquently focuses on what is truly important in life:  family and  friends, and the essential characteristics for happiness -- tolerance,  generosity, humor, and forgiveness.<br />This is one of the most refreshing  books I've read in years.  Not only did I finish it in one  &quot;sitting&quot;, I don't think I even blinked.  It is such a touching,  yet entertaining book, that I look forward to giving copies to friends with  the hope it will make them smile as it made me.	2000-05-31
US	51688225	R34F4ROW87R1T5	0802136230	288315965	Two Guys from Verona: A Novel of Suburbia	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Yuppie mid-life angst	Being in my mid-forties I had an epiphany reading this book.  Haling from metropolitan NY the book had some resonance for me, and I was highly entertained by Kaplan's descriptions of a bourgeois lifestyle both familiar  and very amusing (from a distance).  Initially, I was detached reading what  I thought were descriptions of a long gone era, but abruptly realized when  reading of Will's class of 1974 high school reunion that this book was  talking about me! Accordingly thereafter the text became more pointed and I  became more personally engaged.<br />Kaplan aptly describes the superficial  and label oriented culture culture predominant in much of suburban NY.  He  also poignantly depicts the marginal accomplishment and sense of lost  opportunity, shallow satisfactions, and sacrificed ideals this lifestyle  often represent.  The beauty of the book is that he conveys a meaningful,  thought provoking message in an entertaining fashion without being morose  or pedantic.  <br />The book sustains a credible plot until the last quarter  in which events become increasingly fantastic and absurd.  However,  throughout it remains entertaining despite a weak ending.<br />This is a  perfect read for middle class, middle aged, metropolitan readers.	2000-05-17
US	51688225	R2AEJU6V6JBY44	0151709653	333519015	Paradise	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A Good Belly Laugh	Paradise is a fun, light read reminiscent of his other works in which he lampoons social climbers and the pompous from a variety of social strata.  Yet, while flaying those arrogant, grasping, nouveau, and tacky, Dennis  shows a soft side for the underdog and the sincere.<br />The setting for  Paradise is Alcapulco Mexico, which Dennis depicts as a magnet for the soft  self centered affluent, their followers, and predators. (Readers of  &quot;Genius&quot; will note Dennis's return to Mexico as setting. The main  protagonist Liz who is generous and kind has classic style and embodies  Dennis's ideal of true &quot;class&quot;.  However, her heart blinds her to  callow, exploitive men who Dennis describes in a delightfully wicked  fashion and then dooms to just rewards.  The book is crammed full of  affluent and bourgeois stereotypes -- blue collar, upper crust, gay,  straight, and ethnic.  It makes you laugh out loud and is difficult to put  down.	2000-05-12
US	51688225	R2EFJ0V7U09A2U	0393320235	88753219	A Sort of Homecoming: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	a departure from the stereotype	Cremins's book is a welcome departure from the depressingly poor, and stereotypically disfunctional characters found in much other Irish literature.  Tom Iremonger, the protoganist, is a shallow, coddled, self centered young Irish &quot;prince&quot; reminiscent of contemporaries in  Long Island, London, and Los Angeles. Still stinging from adolescent  insecurities he strives to project an aura of cool to wow those who once  distained him. That he represents a relatively new phenomenon for Ireland  is at the heart of his wanderlust and struggle in accepting Ireland as part  of his self image. A refreshing and long overdue novel reflecting an  increasingly bourgeois Ireland being transformed by globalization.	2000-05-02
