US	51680053	R1TBQNOXMFRVZN	0743470737	87376754	Star Trek: Deep Space Nine: Prophecy and Change Anthology	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Restore your faith in STAR TREK	DEEP SPACE NINE was always the most literate corner of the STAR TREK universe.  It's no surprise, then, that this tightly-edited anthology uses a clever framing story  which allows us to imagine that all the stories are being told by a post-middle-aged Jake Sisko, Deep Space Nine's own resident author, reflecting on his time aboard Deep Space Nine.  While this means that PROPHECY AND CHANGE isn't technically a part of the so-called \\"Season 8\\" relaunch of the series in book form, it does make it a valuable prologue to these newer adventures.     <br /> <br />Within just a few pages, you'll quickly see that this is a different kind of STAR TREK than most people knew existed.  This is a rich, messy universe, far, far beyond the scope of the other STAR TREK series.  In these post-ENTERPRISE days when STAR TREK seems to be a disgraced genre, the one constant source of good new material is the DEEP SPACE NINE line.  This first stop along the way back to STAR TREK will both give you new material while reminding you of the high points of each of the seven televised seasons. <br /> <br />Perhaps the best story of the lot is Kevin Summers' \\"Ha'mara\\", which takes us all the way back to Sisko's first journey to the Bajor that would become his home over the course of the television series.  Notable for giving us our first real look at a lot of introductions that the television pilot left out, it weaves together broad political themes with the very personal struggles of Ben and Jake Sisko.  DEEP SPACE NINE was always remarkable for its deft handling of the big and small pictures, but maybe there's never been quite as poignant a moment in any part of the DEEP SPACE NINE legacy--televised or literary--as Summers gives us here.  Without giving too much away, I'll just say that in the midst of exploring exactly why the Bajorans were so distrustful of the new Federation presence, Summers takes the time to give us a portrait of the exact moment Jake Sisko became a writer.  So simply moving was this scene that I can still remember it now, some two years after having read it.  <br /> <br />If there had been nothing else in this book but that one moment, I would have felt my purchase price fully justified.  Happily, there's so very much more in this rich collection, which leaves no major character without a truly signature moment.	2005-07-12
US	51680053	R2H60XQ823RFL7	0345442997	666958502	Star Wars: The Approaching Storm	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Measure of a Padawan	Though I have found Foster a competent tie-in author with other properties, I've never found much of his work anything more than \\"workmanlike\\". And, one one level, he does it again, here. The plot could hardly be simpler, and the basic thematic notion of a world with two diametrically opposed societies has been done to death. Cynics could find especial cause to take issue with him on this decision: Ansion's societies aren't remarkably different than those of Naboo. However, the simplicity of plot gives the author plenty of room to explore character, and Foster fairly knocks his assignment out of the park on this front. Seeing Anakin and Obi-Wan individually, and their master/padawan relationship jointly, through the eyes of other characters in a parallel position, gives us very useful pre-Clone Wars insight into the dark places their relationship will eventually go. It also gives us a sense of how very right it all might have been, had the Emperor not ultimately ensnared Anakin. <br /> <br />Even more intriguing are the echoes that ripple from this work to THE CLONE WARS animated cartoon. The impromptu Jedi Trials described in that filmed work have a root here on tribal Anison, and it's nice to see Lucas' overarching theme of the importance of supposedly more \\"primitive\\" cultures working its way back into Anakin's life, the same way that it does in THE CLONE WARS, as it did in TPM, and as it will again in ROTJ. <br /> <br />Luckily, Foster isn't just trying to advance Anakin's character development.  Perhaps because he was the first writer to tackle Obi-Wan (as the ghostwriter of the Episode IV novelization), he also gives Kenobi useful treatment.  Though Ansion is a bit politically clichd, as I've said, it does serve as a useful analog to Tatooine.  Obi-Wan's reactions to his surroundings in this book are therefore useful in showing us how the largely urbane Obi-Wan of the Prequel trilogy finds peace with his eventual life as a \\"crazy old wizard\\" out past the DuneSea.   More than that, Master Luminara gives us something we've really never gotten in the movies:  an appraisal of Obi-Wan from a peer.  Yes, technically, Yoda and Obi-Wan are \\"equals\\" in the classic trilogy of films, but can anyone really be a true peer to Yoda?  And throughout the prequel films, Obi-Wan is mostly shown as either a padawan or a master.  This is one of the few examples where we see him extensively working in concert with another Jedi with whom he shares no significant previous history.   This is absolutely  new ground for his character, and in that regard, THE APPROACHING STORM should be taken as fulfilling its mandate to truly expand the STAR WARS universe. <br />  <br />Clearly, people who are into STAR WARS for its more militaristic aspects will find little of significance here. But if you're looking for an actual character study, along with vivid descriptions of an environment and a culture, you'll not be disappointed. Anyone who felt cheated by the brevity of Jedi-as-diplomat role seen for only the first minute or so of TPM will be rewarded by a full-scale description of just how important that function really was in the days of the Old Republic.	2005-07-11
US	51680053	R24XNGMC6S65WO	0743456823	327925438	The Lives of Dax (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	The best STAR TREK character most non-fans have never heard of	I think CINESCAPE has it right when they're quoted on this book's cover saying, \\"One of the best STAR TREK novels isn't a novel at all.\\"  Truth is. what makes this so compelling is that the character is so long-lived that we get a sense of Federation history as we learn about one character.  Just because of the nature of the Trill we can almost view an anthology as a single work.  It helps, too, that the stories are of pretty much consistently high quality.   <br /> <br />That said, I tend to find myself gravitating more towards Dax' earlier hosts.  In particular, I very much enjoyed the volume's Lela entry.  Her story is something I wish we would have seen more of in ENTERPRISE, the STAR TREK series with which it is most contemporaneous.  This tale of political intrigue arising from alien contact eventually made its way into ENTERPRISE, but if more writers like Rusch and Sherwin had been allowed to bat earlier for ENTERPRISE, maybe it'd still be on the air today.  ENTERPRISE should always have been about the struggle to get into space, and forge alliances, and this story makes clear how such stories could have been made dramatically compelling.  Of course, much of the drama arises from the excellent character study we get from the authors, and ENTERPRISE was never very long on character study. <br /> <br />Likewise the Tobin story \\"Dead Man's Hand\\" puts the former host least likely to be an action hero in a distinctly threatening situation and finds a way to make that both realistically interesting and singularly important to the development of STAR TREK history within a few short pages.  It's arguably an apocryphal story in light of later developments on ENTERPRISE--but, then again, maybe this story is so good that we can see ENTERPRISE as the apocrypha, at least when it comes to transporter technology. <br /> <br />The other two standout stories, for my money, are the ones that explain curious statements made by Dax in the series proper.  We finally discover whyJadzia remembered how good Leonard McCoy's hands were in the Original Series/Deep Space Nine crossover episode, \\"More Tribbles, More Troubles\\".   And the ubiquitous STAR TREK \\"historians\\", Judith and Garfield Reeves-Stevens, give us a detailed look at how Ezri came to \\"accidentally\\" receive the Dax symbiont  between Seasons 6 and 7 of the television series.   <br /> <br />To be sure, everything here is worth a read.  Still, it is possible to argue that these stories are the more relevant ones simply because they tell us things that have the biggest impact on the larger TREK timeline.  The other stories, generally, are more private, more reflective on that particular host's thought processes.    <br /> <br />And maybe it's this balance between \\"large\\" and \\"small\\" stories that contributes to making this such an enjoyable read overall.  We really do get a sense that Dax has led a remarkably varied existence, and has been responsible for things as grandly political as forging interstellar alliances, or as mundanely personal as a sister's love.   <br /> <br />The flexibility of the character is so apparent in this volume that one can't help but wonder if one day it might be interesting to build a whole series around a single Trill character, with the lead character--and the time period--changing each season.  STAR TREK is notorious for it's obsession with time travel, but maybe the most satisfying time trip of all would be to examine a single, if very long, life.	2005-07-11
US	51680053	R2RFBLQJVL7MHX	0345463110	100950652	Medstar II: Jedi Healer (Star Wars: Clone Wars Novel)	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Physician, heal thyself	While I take other reviewers' points that this duology attempts to expand the universe by giving us a wholly different perspective, it's more potentially good than actually so.  JEDI HEALER was one of the few times the prequel-era books have really disappointed me.  <br /> <br />I greatly disliked most of the characters, whose dialog often places them in the world of clich. rather than the expanded universe of STAR WARS.  To my mind, introducing wholly original characters is precisely where the Expanded Universe in general begins to go awry.  So much time has to be spent on introducing the characters and setting up their own personal journeys that there's precious little time left to explain why they're important to the overarching themes of the STAR WARS universe.  To be sure, there are times where it can work, but here the connection to the STAR WARS universe takes rather too long to boil, and the ingredients in the pot just weren't interesting enough to make me wait for the meal.       <br /> <br />Not only do the characters fail to contribute to the saga in much of a meaningful way, but also that they were rather poorly drawn. Dialogue was a real weakness in this book--perhaps because the character motivations weren't, by and large, compelling. In particular the core love story, such as it was, played out more as a an episode of GENERAL HOSPITAL trying lamely to be ROMEO AND JULIET, rather than an even mediocre attempt to capture some of the fire of hospital relationships we see on, say, E.R.. It mattered not at all to me whether they got together, and by the time I got to the sappy Epilogue, I positively thought I was lost in an episode of FAMILY AFFAIR. <br /> <br />Worse than this, though, was the sloppy handling of Bariss' character. After all, she's right on the cover, and, one would imagine, she's the star of the piece. Sadly, she's at best a co-star--and this alone leads me to believe I was duped into forkin' out my $7.50. Things start out well enough inChapter One, where we're treated to an imagining of the climactic events of THE APPROACHING STORM from her perspective. I enjoyed this greatly, as it's a useful way to help us follow the character from background character in the movies, to co-star in a Clone Wars episode and a directly-referenced-by-film novel. Unfortunately, after this point, her dialogue might as well have come from a completely different character. There's seemingly little effort--or perhaps, little successful effort--to give us the kind of \\"reserved mystic\\" we get (or, at least, I got) from her earlier appearances. Perhaps by using someone who's a sort of second- or third-tier previously-established character, the authors hoped to get the best of both worlds--a \\"headliner\\" to sell the book, and someone who was largely a blank slate, and could be defined as they wished, along with the other new characters they were making. And, maybe, if you haven't followed her character closely, you'll not notice anything wrong with the way they approach her. But there's just something far too casual, and at times almost flirtatious, about her that rings distinctly false. It is almost as if they wrote her as Padawan Any-Jedi. That, added to the fact that she takes too much of a back seat to the authors' own creations, leaves me really feeling cheated by her use in this book. <br /> <br />Having said that, there are times, largely not when the character speaks, when I feel like they've given her something interesting. Fairness demands that I draw attention to her character's personal journey, which does add something that feels much like the character I've come to enjoy in other outlets. The crisis she faces, her \\"Jedi Trial\\", as it were, is for its final 10 pages at least, riveting stuff that \\"fits\\", and gives her passage into Knighthood a satisfyingly ironic twist. I don't think it's enough to justify the book as a whole, but the way in which she attains Knighthood does give the reader a fair chunk of changeto think about. <br /> <br />Another annoying aspect of the book is something that I'm struggling to understand about my own personal tastes in EU fiction. While in one breath I do appreciate the bridge the authors attempt to make with THE APPROACHING STORM (and for that matter, DARTH MAUL: SHADOW HUNTER), I flat out loathe the blatant attempt to work SHADOWS OF THE EMPIRE's Black Sun organization here. And I can't quite figure out why this bugs me, except to say that former is an attempt to shed light onto a character, and the other feels like a subtle attempt to force new readers to buy SHADOWS. Maybe the deal is that there's really no need for the Black Sun references, whereas the limited amount of information on Bariss more naturally compels the tie-in to THE APPROACHING STORM. Or maybe it's just the nature of the referenced work. THE APPROACHING STORM, whose events are canonized directly into Episode II, have a stronger relationship to Lucas' own vision, whereas SHADOWS can be more freely ignored. Thus, the tie-in--made by the same author--seems like a blatant effort to give his early work more \\"weight\\" in the overall EU structure. Whatever the case, I just didn't like it. <br /> <br />But there is an unambiguously cool bit of linking that goes on with one of the characters. In an effort to preserve the surprise for those who've not read the book, he or she will go nameless here. But by far the single best bit of character motivation in the book gives us something that is so rare in EU fiction: an examination of the way in which galactic events impact the life of a single citizen. We see the politics of the Chancellor-cum-Emperor actually turn an ordinary individual against the Republic. The final pages of the book at last give us something to hold onto: a single event which holds the keys of a logical progression from hatred of the Republic to hatred of the Empire. If you've ever wondered, as I have, how a single person could applaud the death of liberty in Episode III, and then show up to topple the Emperor's statue in Episode VI, consider carefully the motivations of \\"the last person standing\\" at the end of this novel, and you'll have a good answer. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, that's not enough to redeem the novel as a whole. The most I can recommend anyone do with this book is to check it out from the library and read the last 50 pages or so.	2005-07-11
US	51680053	R2L625FWPNIAHZ	1569715459	824256246	Emissaries to Malastare (Star Wars: Ongoing, Volume 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Deserves a second look, now that the saga is complete	As has been noted in other reviews, there is a split in the book's narrative that, at first glance, makes the story seem somewhat disconnected.  In fact, what appears to be the case is that the five issues collected here are actually a trilogy (set on Malastare) and duology (set on Nar Shaddaa).  Though the two stories do have some common elements, and namely a common enemy, they're really two separate stories, instead of a single five-part adventure.   Dark Horse does readers no favors by putting the cover art in five consecutive pages at the end of the book.  It would help readers a great deal if they would instead present the storylines with their covers intact so as to make clear where one book ends and the next begins.  We'd then come a lot closer to experiencing the books as the serialized adventures they were originally meant to be. <br /> <br />This fact makes the title of the collected volume a little misleading.  Indeed, the volume is really misnamed.  It almost would've been better to have simply called the work, \\"Jedi Emissaries\\", \\"A Failure of Diplomacy\\",  or in some other way to have de-emphasized the whole Malastare angle.  It's kinda hard to justify the current title, given that the last 64 pages don't take place on Malastare at all. <br /> <br />Likewise, my other frustration with the book is that the author's wrongly place the book \\"shortly before the Battle of Naboo\\"--which clearly cannot be the case.  Anakin is seen as living in the Jedi Temple, fully wearing the standard padawan \\"uniform\\", which he only gets after the Battle of Naboo.  <br /> <br />These doubts aside, there's a lot here to admire.  The art, though not on a par with the higher echelon of DC, Marvel, and independent illustrators, is certainly on the higher end of Dark Horse's contributions to the STAR WARS franchise.  It's not the best stuff they've ever put out, but it's closer to the best than not.   Those used to the more conceptual, stylized art in, say, SANDMAN, BATMAN: YEARONE, or KINGDOM COME, will find the work here more reminiscent of \\"special\\" issues of \\"ordinary\\" comic books.  And that's really what they are.  EMISSARIES is from the first half of the second year of Dark Horse's main STAR WARS title.  It's the beginning of the better art that would come to dominate much of Dark Horse's monthly output.  <br /> <br />The two storylines--that of the diplomatic mission to Malastare and the police action on Nar Shada--effectively demonstrate the differing styles of Jedi, and there's a deft mixture of high action, solid Jedi philosophy, Sith manipulation, and appropriate comedy. <br /> <br />What's most intriguing to me, however, is the care with which the writers take with the franchise.  It's important to remember that this book pre-dates the release of Episode II.  Yet it feels like it could have been written today.  Though the return of Sebulba is most obviously relating the book to Episode I, the Tusken padawan character deftly foreshadows Anakin's development in Episodes II and III, and also amplifies Dark Horse's own previous storylines.   More than that, relationships described herein, like that between Mace and his ex-padawan Depa, would later surface in novels like SHATTERPOINT.  Now that the film saga is complete, and the prequel-era expanded universe is much better-developed, it's fascinating to see how well-integrated even these early Dark Horse efforts are into entire universe. <br /> <br />Indeed, I would argue that this book is, in a way that's not typical with most comics, perhaps more relevant today than it was on first publication.	2005-07-11
US	51680053	R1PXTPZJKQQ5M4	0739318330	547341365	Star Wars, Episode III - Revenge of the Sith	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Nothing Random about the House's customer service	I would add my voice to those saying that the content of this unabridged audio is well worth the purchase price.   Though Davis' rendering of Padm and Yoda's voices is--how can I say this politely?--an homage to the film series' occasionally flat acting, the 14 hours of the unabridged version is spent mostly in wonder and awe.    <br /> <br />What most impressed me about this product, however, was the way in which Random House Audio stood by their product.  Unluckily, I got to the last two tracks of the very last CD only to discover that they were completely unplayable.  Ten hours and fifty-five minutes into this last, greatest chapter of the STAR WARS saga, and all I had was dead air.   <br /> <br />So I called up Random House's technical support line, and, without question or issue, a very congenial operator asked for my shipping address and sent me a brand new copy.  No hassle, no wading through the minefield of \\"RMA numbers\\", no \\"we're gonna send it to you once we establish that there really IS a problem with your copy\\".  It was just an instant apology, a confirmation code, an expected delivery date, and a reminder to call back if I didn't get the replacement in a timely fashion.   <br /> <br />It was, in short, how customer service should be.	2005-07-10
US	51680053	R1V5W4AZUYTMXG	0425158632	506174805	Executive Orders (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	More relevant than ever	What might have seemed an improbable setup before the events of September 11 now seems eerily realistic in the light of those terrible events.  <br />Suddenly made President by massive terrorist attack upon virtually every elected and appointed official at the very end of DEBT OF HONOR, Jack Ryan must rebuild the entire US government.  His task is made even more complicated by a renewed military attack by forces who see Jack Ryan as an accidental President without the resolve to defend his country while he is rebuilding it.<br />In Jack Ryan, though, Clancy has created a sometimes uncertain but always morally-centered character that makes for compelling reading.  He is an underdog with his heart in exactly the right place.  He knows what to do, but not always how to do it.  That makes him virtually impossible to ignore as mythic hero.  <br />But EXECUTIVE ORDERS isn't just a page-turner because of its hero.  No, Clancy's own mastery of syncopation--indeed, his ability to craft detailed stories which happen all around the world at once--makes one reluctant to stop reading.  It's a big book, but one can easily read hundreds of pages at a sitting.     <br />This is made all the more true now.  Real life has made this a bedtime story for adults.   Ultimately, it is a read that will make you feel good about America's ability to defeat terrorism.	2001-10-16
US	51680053	R1BDFO8UC481VO	0440508266	597335133	The World's Best Simple Bar Tricks	Books	2	17	18	N	Y	Preview a copy before buying	There is a point where simplicity converts to banality, and this book treads that line a little too closely for my tastes.  Those new to bar culture may find something to wonder over here, but anyone interested in magic probably won't.  <br />Having said that, I disagree, slightly, with others who've gone so far as to say that the book--and especially its cover--are misleading.   The cover describes the tricks as &quot;idiot-proof&quot;, and they are.  The tricks are well-illustrated and competently explained.   As the cover claims, you will learn how to pass a dollar bill though a lemon, and make a coin walk across the table.  To be sure, there's nothing in the book that will teach you how to create the image of a levitating olive as depicted on the cover, but the cover is basically honest.<br />If it oversells the book at all, it does so when it claims the tricks will &quot;amaze&quot; friends.  It's best to say, as the back cover points out, that the tricks will help smooth over awkward conversational moments.  Because of the lack of anything truly breathtaking, or even much that's subtle,  this book is best previewed at a local library before purchase.  IIt's probably not a smart impulse buy.	2001-09-18
US	51680053	R1WXCOHW8KZRK	0688158102	504109385	Typographics 2 Cybertype: Zines + Screens (Vol 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A portable art gallery for the digital age	As the price of digital technology has plummeted, its availability has become more democratized.  The result has been an explosion of creativity, as more and more people find the powerful new tools of self-expression available to them.  No medium has been as completely revolutionized by computer typography, in particular, than that of the small press.  This book takes us through some examples of the most innovative work coming from periodicals in the past few years.    Sometimes odd, but frequently brilliant, it is always exemplary of the tremendous freedom digital composition has given to the page designer.  If you're in the business, chances you'll find stuff here to inspire you.  If you just like art, you won't be disappointed, either.  <br />[One side note:  don't expect any step-by-step instructions on how to reproduce this art.  Don't even expect much explanatory text with each plate.  It's just a gallery.   Even so, you can learn a lot just by looking at the approximately 220 full-color plates on offer here.]	2001-09-15
US	51680053	R18WBVWIBVZK19	0345409817	462337382	Star Wars: The Annotated Screenplays	Books	3	13	17	N	N	The company line	In many ways this is an extremely satisfying work.  It gives an unprecedented overview of the story that's perhaps taken longer to write than any other in recorded history.  Students of film and STAR WARS fans alike will relish the ride.  Particularly intriguing are details about the very long process involved in writing what became Episode IV: A NEW HOPE.   <br />But as a scholarly record of the creative process, this book leaves a lot to be desired.  Bouzerau does a poor job documenting his work.  At best, we're given a general idea of his sources.  None of the interviews are dated in any way, making it difficult to know whether his interviewees are reflecting for posterity or giving us views contemporary with the films themselves.  Equally disturbing is the absence of commentary from Gary Kurtz, producer of  Episodes IV and V, who apparently resigned his position on RETURN OF THE JEDI over creative differences about its script.<br />So while this may be intriguing stuff, ultimately one has to take heed of the copyright information.  The book is owned wholly by Lucasfilm and published in 1997.  Film students would therefore be well-advised to view Bouzerau as little more than a mouthpiece for Lucas' 1990's views.   Serious students of the saga will have to use this work in conjunction with independent sources to get a more well-rounded view of the creative process surrounding this cultural phenomenon.	2001-09-15
US	51680053	R2XTJAGIFLS2TY	0609805088	83105090	Miss Charming's Book of Bar Amusements	Books	3	7	11	N	Y	A mixed bag of tricks	Though written with enthusiasm by an author obviously passionate about her craft, I found the collection of tricks oddly balanced between the entirely mundane to the astoundingly expensive, to the possibly unsafe. <br />The book is divided into six sections. Each deals with a broad category of tricks that essentially represent garden variety magic. You'll learn how to do some manipulation of money, matches, glassware, paper, and various odds and ends commonly available at bars. The instructions are clear, as is the focus. The author is trying to effortlessly convey tricks that, in the main, can be done while a bartender is about her normal business. The instructions and illustrations make it easy to learn these simple tricks. As such, it is doubtless a valuable resource.<br />However, serious magic students, and even more experienced bartenders, will dismiss this work as little more than fluff. Some of the amusements even run counter to standard bar flare theory, suggesting a &quot;trick&quot; when the pretended act can actually be done. A handful of the &quot;amusements&quot; call for the creative use of fire and/or extremely flammable chemicals, which would seem potentially dangerous in a bar filled with alcohol. Many are so obvious one wonders just how impressive they'd actually be. Little attention is given to the creation of an aura of magic--showmanship, if you will--which is made even more necessary in the absence of extraordinary illusion. Fortunately, the audience for the tricks in this book will likely be those who are at least a little inebriated.	2001-09-13
US	51680053	R2M2NA0LGOIUZO	155209121X	974676971	Pathways in Juggling: Learn how to juggle with balls, rings, clubs, devil sticks, diabolos and other objects	Books	5	30	30	N	Y	Exceptionally well-designed technical instruction	PATHWAYS IN JUGGLING will keep you occupied from first, tentative steps in  three-ball juggling through more complicated work with diablos and devil  sticks.  It's appropriate for many different skill levels, from novice to  advanced intermediate.  After you've mastered all the book's knowledge,  you'll be ready to perform impressively before public audiences.<br />This  learning process is made easier by the book's style.  It's a very handsome,  well-designed volume, whose instructive abilities are greatly enhanced by  the use of full-color photographs. In many cases, the imagery is so clear,  you don't absolutely need to read the accompanying text to understand how  to perform the trick.  Even so, each trick is carefully explained, and tips  are liberally mixed in to help students overcome common problems.  <br />But  for me, one of the best features is simply the book's size.    PATHWAYS is  a large enough volume to stay flat on a table, so you see the can glance at  the photographs while holding your juggling objects.  The large format also  means the photographs are themselves large and easy to see from a distance.   This saves tremendous time, and is certainly one of the strongest reasons  I pull this volume before others when I want to practice.   <br />What's in  this volume?  You get six major sections, covering something on the order  of 50 distinct tricks.  First is an introduction to juggling three balls,  followed by variations on three-ball juggling, club juggling, juggling more  than three items, stealing and passing, and, finally, using devil sticks  and diablos.  The how-to sections are followed by the weakest part of the  book: an all-too-brief discussion of equipment and a two-page section on  performing in public.<br /> These last sections are almost wholly  inadequate,  in my view.  Though the equipment section does introduce you to the basic  tools of the trade, it does nothing to tell you how to get that equipment.   While it may have been that the authors were trying to avoid appearing to  endorse particular sales outlets, or maybe that they thought that listing  specific addresses might have \\"dated\\" the book, their lack of specificity  is truly woeful.  Juggling outlets are not uniformly placed throughout the  world, and some ideas of where to go for supplies would've been extremely  helpful.  Likewise, the equally scant section on performing doesn't go a  long way to explaining how to put together an act.  As far as it goes, it's  a good enough essay, but it, too, is hardly explicit.  In future editions,  the authors would be well-served by including at least a \\"further  reading/viewing\\" section to direct their students to examples of fine  performance, so as to show ways that individual skills might be put  together into a coherent whole.  <br />These two flaws aside, however,  PATHWAYS IN JUGGLING is a highly recommendable work.  If you have any  aspiration of becoming a competent juggler with a deep repertoire, this is  the book you want.	2000-09-08
US	51680053	R16QHCAOZS4JBS	155209121X	974676971	Pathways in Juggling: Learn how to juggle with balls, rings, clubs, devil sticks, diabolos and other objects	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	If you want to get serious about juggling, buy this	PATHWAYS IN JUGGLING will keep you occupied from first, tentative steps in  three-ball juggling through more complicated work with diablos and devil  sticks.  It's appropriate for many different skill levels, from novice to  advanced intermediate.  After you've mastered all the book's knowledge,  you'll be ready to perform impressively before public audiences.<br />This  learning process is made easier by the book's style.  It's a very handsome,  well-designed volume, whose instructive abilities are greatly enhanced by  the use of full-color photographs. In many cases, the imagery is so clear,  you don't absolutely need to read the accompanying text to understand how  to perform the trick.  Even so, each trick is carefully explained, and tips  are liberally mixed in to help students overcome common problems.  <br />But  for me, one of the best features is simply the book's size.    PATHWAYS is  a large enough volume to stay flat on a table, so you see the can glance at  the photographs while holding your juggling objects.  The large format also  means the photographs are themselves large and easy to see from a distance.   This saves tremendous time, and is certainly one of the strongest reasons  I pull this volume before others when I want to practice.   <br />What's in  this volume?  You get six major sections, covering something on the order  of 50 distinct tricks.  First is an introduction to juggling three balls,  followed by variations on three-ball juggling, club juggling, juggling more  than three items, stealing and passing, and, finally, using devil sticks  and diablos.  The how-to sections are followed by the weakest part of the  book: an all-too-brief discussion of equipment and a two-page section on  performing in public.<br />These last sections are almost wholly  inadequate,  in my view.  Though the equipment section does introduce you to the basic  tools of the trade, it does nothing to tell you how to get that equipment.   While it may have been thatthe authors were trying to avoid appearing to  endorse particular sales outlets, or maybe that they thought that listing  specific addresses might have &quot;dated&quot; the book, their lack of  specificity is truly woeful.  Juggling outlets are not uniformly placed  throughout the world, and some ideas of where to go for supplies would've  been extremely helpful.  Likewise, the equally scant section on performing  doesn't go a long way to explaining how to put together an act.  As far as  it goes, it's a good enough essay, but it, too, is hardly explicit.  In  future editions, the authors would be well-served by including at least a  &quot;further reading/viewing&quot; section to direct their students to  examples of fine performance, so as to show ways that individual skills  might be put together into a coherent whole.  <br />These two flaws aside,  however, PATHWAYS IN JUGGLING is a highly recommendable work.  If you have  any aspiration of becoming a competent juggler with a deep repertoire, this  is the book you want.	2000-08-25
US	51680053	R2LAI897I9IKLK	0932592007	273788217	Juggling for the Complete Klutz	Books	4	46	48	N	Y	Some design flaws can't mar great instruction	The book will do what the liner notes suggest: teach a complete klutz how to juggle.  By taking the book's instruction, someone who's never picked up  a juggling ball in their lives can learn the basics quickly.  The inclusion  of bean bags adds significant value to the product.  For a genuinely modest  price, you can give someone the complete ability to start juggling  immediately.  <br />But it fails novice jugglers in at least two ways.  Most  importantly, it's not really made to be used while you're trying to juggle.   It's too small to lay flat on a table.  Other juggling books know that you  need to read them WHILE you're juggling and so have either ring-bound them  or made them magazine size.   Also, I'm not crazy about the illustrations.   Sometimes they're clear enough, but often, the black and white printing of  line drawings doesn't really show you where your juggling objects should be  in three dimensions.  <br />Still, this fault is more than made up for by an  engaging, clear writing style.  The instructions are highly understandable,  and the text is large enough to read from a distance. Thus, though I think  the book could do with a few, essentially cosmetic changes, it's a great  first step.	2000-08-24
US	51680053	R2EEJ6SCS4Y98M	0764551019	545698484	Magic For Dummies	Books	5	42	47	N	N	How to get over stage fright and still keep your integrity	This book is more than a simple collection of tricks.  It's a full  introduction to the world of magic.  Not only do you discover the secrets  behind tricks that you can reproduce without much special equipment, you  also get a foundation in the whole art of magic.<br />Most of the book is, of  course, consumed with telling you how to do stuff.  The tricks are  organized by the venue in which they could best be performed.   There are  tricks for the office, tricks for restaurants, tricks for parties, and  tricks for wherever you carry a pack of cards.   The instructions for all  the tricks are clear and even humorous.  Mr. Pogue is an excellent teacher,  able to convey in writing what many couldn't do through speech.<br />But the  book is more than just these tricks.  It's also a guide to the performance  art of magic itself.  Nothing, according to Mr. Pogue, is as important as  the panache you can exhibit. And of course he's right.  Pogue teaches you  that the projection of confidence is, more than anything you do with your  hands, responsible for the creation of illusion.   <br />He also gives you a  real sense of the history and tradition of magic.  There's an introduction  to famous magicians and a listing of resources to help you continue your  exploration of the craft.  I was also impressed to discover that there's an  attempt at a \\"trickography\\"-something like a bibliography attempting to  credit, where possible, the inventors of the included tricks.   This  trickography goes into some detail about the responsibility that magicians  have towards each other, even though there's nothing in the magician's  trade which can be copyrighted.<br />All in all, it's a fine work, well worth  your money.  Still, it's worth mentioning that the style of trick included  here isn't necessarily everyone's idea of \\"magic\\".  This is simple,  sleight-of-hand stuff.  It's not, for the most part, stage magic.  There  are no rabbits drawn from hats nor beautiful assistants sawn inhalf, here.   Of course, to many readers this will be considered a virtue: these tricks  can be done anywhere with minimal investment.  But if you're hoping to make  a career-or at least a paying hobby--of magic, this book is probably just a  baby step along the way.	2000-08-19
US	51680053	R1NAG4Y47DOLWE	0881010081	637510118	The Last Days of Mash: Photographs and Notes	Books	5	101	101	N	N	Worth searching for	If you're a M*A*S*H fan--or just have one in your life--you'll want to go to the extra trouble of trying to find this out-of-print volume.  It's a  photo-journal of the last week of filming M*A*S*H, with all the pictures  provided by Alan Alda's talented wife.  She had unusual access to a very  closed set and was therefore able to capture a lot of raw emotion.  Her  photos, combined with her husband's often poignant commentary, do much to  convey a sense of what was happening to the group of players that had  called the 4077th their home.  Perhaps because the initial profits went to  charity--though probably because it was genuinely there--a real sense of  love permeates this work.  THE LAST DAYS OF M*A*S*H was no attempt to  capitalize on the hysteria surrounding the end of the series, but an  authentic documentary effort.	2000-08-18
US	51680053	RI63RYV80GRCI	0521437733	749302823	The Invention of Tradition (Canto)	Books	5	57	71	N	N	The real stuff of legend	The principle argumentative thread running through each of this book's essays is that the traditions Europeans hold dear about their respective cultures date back merely to the turn of the 20th century.  Far from  legendarily old, things like Scottish tartans and the English monarchical  love of pomp and circumstance date back only to the Victorian era.  More to  the point, many traditions aren't even native to the land which celebrates  them.  Tartans, the book concludes, are actually northern English ideas,  and the \\"British\\" love of pageantry comes more from India than from  anything deeply rooted in the gardens of the House of Windsor.<br />But so  what?  What is the importance of discovering the \\"truth\\" of a legend?  Does  it make us less reverential of it?  Judging by the continued popularity of  Santa Claus, no.  Traditions, after all, aren't really about truth.  Many  traditions are simply lies that have been repeated enough that they become  ennobled.  The point isn't that they were once lies.  The point is the  journey they have made from lie to legend.<br />That is what is so  intriguing about this book.  True, there are other, more political subtexts  in these essays-some of the authors clearly don't LIKE that the lies have  become cultural \\"truth\\"-but all of the essays tell of the trek each of  these myths made.  Far from the \\"inconsequence\\" that another reviewer has  mentioned, these essays deepen our understanding of cherished myths and  even make them more endearing.	2000-07-29
US	51680053	R2KNKKSD2NNYTW	0517408953	729249357	Book Of Buildings	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent overview for architectural novices	I don't pretend to be an architect, and so don't offer up a review of this book from a professional standpoint.  As a fan of great architecture, though, this book serves as a very useful guide.  <br />It offers an  introduction to architecture, explaining the term and comparing it to mere  'construction'.  It continues with a few dozen full color plates,  exemplifying basic architectural terms such as &quot;Elements&quot;,  &quot;Enclosures&quot;, &quot;Ornament&quot; and the like.  Then it  proceeds to take us, region-by-region, throughout Europe and North America,  showing examples of the finest architecture in each area, and defining each  region in terms of its influences.<br />This is the most interesting part of  the book for me, and it has helped immensely to solidify my understanding  of what I've seen first hand.  As elswehere in the volume, the text here is  clear and interesting.  It's also richly illustrated with literally  hundreds of line drawings.  Often, these line drawings clearly demonstrate  what the text is attempting to clarify, but occasionally the text would've  been better served by an actual photograph.  One can't help but think that  if this book were reprinted today, photos would be easier and cheaper to  integrate with the text.<br />Still, the advantage of a dearth of photographs  is size.  Unlike many 'arthouse' architecture books, this standard-sized  book is easily portable.  In my experience, architecture books seem to be  unweildy coffee-table affairs that can't be enjoyed anywhere but at home.  By contrast, you can take this book anywhere, and are therefore more likely  to actually read it.	2000-06-03
US	51680053	R1OLQ9W7ULKPUJ	0881869767	559787721	Yes, Minister: The diaries of a cabinet minister	Books	5	5	5	N	N	You *can* teach an old Minister new tricks	Like the companion book for the later series, _Yes, Prime Minister_, _The Diaries of a Cabinet Minister_ follows in the British tradition of committing filmed episodes to paper.  New fans to the series who know it  only from the North American video release will actually find wholly `new'  material here; more episodes find their way into this volume than are  currently available on VHS.  But clearly, if you're looking for  behind-the-scenes information or a discussion of _YM_ in the context of  1980's Britain, you've come to the wrong book.<br />No, this is a book for  people who are so enamored of the dialogue, style, and even the issues of  the television series that they want the same stories retold with a new  twist.  After reading this book, it's easy to see why there were enough  such people that this book made the bestseller lists in England.   <br />Even  if you've seen every episode five times, this is fabulous stuff to add to  your print library.  Jonathan Lynn and Anthony Jay clearly have an ear for  dialogue and a head for politics.  They also are smart enough to put just  enough new material in the book to reward diehard fans.  By retelling each  episode from the perspective of the Minister, they add a level of humor  usually not present in the series: that of insight into Hacker's genuine  opinions.  To be sure, the book's basic paradigm is to keep all the  dialogue from the filmed episode, with Hacker quoting exactly what the  other characters say, but there's enough new expository material to set up  those quotes that fans of the show will feel they're getting more than just  a print regurgitation of the series.  <br />Indeed, this twist proved so  successful with the British readership that the authors decided to push  forward and make a second edition, _The Complete Diaries of a Cabinet  Minister_, which includes more pictures, more graphical elements (such as  handwritten notes between Humphrey and the Minister), and I think even one  more episode, that add value to the solid core found in this edition.   <br />Which edition should you get?   Given the out-of-print status of the  volume, I'd say you should get what Amazon can find for you.   If you liked  the series, you won't be disappointed with either.	2000-04-10
US	51680053	R33YUDWO0CH3FE	0563371072	425112398	Keeping Up Appearances : Hyacinth Bucket's Book of Etiquette for the Socially Less Fortunate	Books	4	60	63	N	N	Great stuff, but get the paperback	Following in a somewhat British tradition of having book tie-ins which are not *about* the show so much as a *continuation* of the show, _Book of Etiquette_ is written as though the character of Hyacinth Bucket were  sharing a diary with her audience.  This makes for some howlingly funny  reading, but may disappoint those looking for behind-the-scenes information  about the show. <br />Also, as is the case with the _Yes, Minister_ and Dame  Edna tie-in books, a lot of the material has already surfaced in the  series.  Now, since this material is incredibly funny, it's a joy to have  it in the written word.  Still, some might feel cheated that the book is  more old material than new.<br />It's also important to point out, I think,  that the work is fairly graphic-intensive.  There are *lots* of pictures  and decorative borders here.  These elements obviously cut into the space  available for text.<br />On balance, then, I would very much recommend that  you get the paperback version, even if it's a gift purchase.  While very  funny, the book doesn't warrant the hardbound price.	2000-03-17
US	51680053	R2BKZNM20ZXVPQ	0312105789	686140652	Work, Study, Travel Abroad: The Whole World Handbook 1994-1995	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A comprehensive reference for students, but not travellers	Though not entirely meant for the college student, the information the book provides is certainly skewed in that direction. This book used to be something of a de facto bible in the study abroad community.   I'm curious  why there have apparently been no new editions since this twelfth one,  published in 1994 with information current as of 1993.  <br />The format of  the book is direct and concise. For each country, there's about a page on  the culture, and where to read more about it.  Then there's statistical  information, such as population and basic weather patterns.  Then finally  the bulk of each country's entry is divided into, unsurprisingly, work,  study, and travel sections.  <br />I'd be especially wary of the utility of  the information given in the 'work' and 'travel' sections, as this  information tends to be the most volatile over time.  Still, there are  literally thousands of addresses given by this book, and if even half of  them are still valid, the book will probably have been worth the purchase  price for you.  <br />Certainly, there's no other book on the market which has  as exhaustive a selection of countries from which to choose.  There are,  however, better sources for individual countries--embassies an even Lonely  Planet guides being just the most obvious of them.  Where the book excels  is in its superb, even comprehensive, reference for study abroad programs.   Though now probably somewhat outdated, I remember thinking in 1994 that the  book had seemingly every address of every major study abroad program that  earned credit with an American university.  These programs are organized  not just by country but by subject area, so that if you want to, say, find  art history programs in Belgium, it's dead simple.  <br />This is therefore a  particularly useful purchase for the student who already knows which  country or subject matter she wants to experience.  It's also highly  valuable for college Freshmen who know they want to have a significant  experience abroad, but they don't know quite what they want to do.  Where  it's less useful, I think, is for the serious traveller who's looking for  current information about work conditions in various countries.  And it's  certainly almost entirely useless for anyone hoping to use its contents for  casual travelling. <br />As of March 2000, a far more appropriate title for  the book would be, simply, &quot;How to Study Abroad&quot;.	2000-03-17
US	51680053	R1U8AEI14L7FEL	1559350865	934137966	2: Yes Minister (Cassette)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great resource for the student of British politics	It was hard enough even in the seventies for American audiences to fully 'get' _Yes, Minister_.  Enjoyment of the show is greatly enchanced by at least a moderate familiarity with the British system of government, and  gets funnier the more you know about Whitehall.  Thirty years on, a lot of  the political issues about which the characters speak are all but  indecipherable on this side of the pond.    <br />Yet, I adore this show.    It's _Benson_ on steroids.  <br />The relationships between the characters are  so incredibly well drawn, the acting so superb, that, while helpful,   knowledge about the specific issues debated by Humphrey and Hacker is  secondary.   Even if one doesn't quite understand what's so important about  the &quot;cod quota&quot; or the &quot;vehicle licensing center in  Swansea&quot;, you laugh anyway because the acting's just that good. <br />I  fell in love with this show while taking a British politics class, and am  still convinced to this day that there is no single instructional material  so able to give non-Britons a sense of the difference between their  government and the British one.<br />What's interesting about the cassette  version of _Yes, Minister_ (though not of _Yes, Prime Minister_) is that it  was a capture of the radio version of the show, not simply the soundtrack  from the televised episode.  As a result there are  many subtle  differences, especially in the first episode, between the video and casette  releases.  For my money, the casette version is by far the better acted.	2000-03-17
US	51680053	R7WXLAQBG0PGN	1880559269	587585964	Business and Legal Forms for Graphic Designers	Books	4	20	20	N	Y	Must-have book has another version with all forms on CD	While this book should never be said to replace the advice of a competent lawyer--especially if you're dealing with larger, more complicated arrangements wherein partial rights are being transacted--the forms provided herein do afford basic protection for the small graphics firm.   It's an absolutely indispensible collection of work for anyone just  starting out in the field--or anyone doing fairly routine contract work.	2000-03-17
US	51680053	R3T6GYF0NDTAU4	0881623350	525816592	Yes Prime Minister: The Diaries of the Right Hon. James Hacker	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Perhaps the best media in which to appreciate the YPM series	Like many tie-ins with British television shows,_YPM Diaries_ is a print version of the show, written in the voice of the characters.  And , as is also the apparent British custom, it includes material previously aired.   In fact, its chapters are the televised episodes themselves.<br />But this  book goes well beyond the scripts of the shows.  It definitely recognizes  the difference in the two media and comes up with a lot of new material  unique to the book itself.  One of the cleverest inclusions is that of  handwritten notes between principle characters.  For instance, there are  whole dialogues in this correspondence format between Humphrey and the  Prime Minister which haven't appeared in any other media.  Also, the  diaries themselves include a lot of original material which amplify points  made in the televised versions.<br />Aside from being an absolutely smashing  read, this is an excellent resource for the student of British politics.   From this book I got a lot of ideas for term papers which impressed my  British politics professor.  <br />I think, though, that the most valuable  thing this book will impart is a kind of lens through which to view British  politics.  I don't mean to oversell the utility of the work, but especially  for the American viewer uninitiated in the ways of the parliamentary form  of government, YM/YPM truly helps one see how things get done--or  undone--in Her Majesty's Government.	2000-03-17
US	51680053	R2IOFKXSVN1DCS	0912333049	255776173	Are You Being Served?: The Inside Story of Britain's Funniest--And Public Television's Favorite--Comedy Series	Books	5	33	33	N	N	A book which serves fans of the show very well	_Are You Being Served?_ is arguably the only British comedy show outside of _Monty Python_ which has shown up on every state's public broadcasting channel.  Yet, despite this wider-than-usual American market penetration,  the show is obscure to even careful viewers.  Why did Mr. Lucas suddenly  depart the show?  What happened to Mr. Grainger?  Are more episodes of the  revival show of the staff in retirement forthcoming?  Why did the show go  through so many Senior Assistants on the men's counter?   This book answers  all these questions--and dozens more.  <br />Its exceptionally well-designed  pages--reminiscent of a Grace Brother's shopping bag--lead you through the  beginnings of the show, give a detailed episode guide, and provide lots of  behind-the-scenes information and interviews.  One of the things I  particularly enjoyed was the inclusion about the suprising number of other  versions of the show.  It was a treat learning there was actually a movie  made from the show (and, yes, it's available on Amazon); that John Inman  actually went down under to make a uniquely Australian version of the show;  and that the staff of Grace Brothers sometimes appeared on stage in London.   <br />To be sure, this is no seminal effort on the foundations of British  comedy.   But it is a fun, bathroom-reading kinda book that would make an  excellent, thoughtful stocking stuffer for the anglophile in your life.	2000-03-17
US	51680053	RAQTQGSAIY4G6	0679780068	501726052	The Desktop Publisher's Idea Book: Second Edition	Books	5	37	38	N	Y	Fabulous for all but the least creative reader	With so many desktop publishing books on the market, it's easy to get confused as to quality.  The truth is that there's something of knowledge to be gained in just about every book.  What's difficult is finding one  right for your current level of knowledge-and one that will help you move  on in your education. <br />This book will be of such help to at least three  distinct types of reader.  <br />First, despite the fact that it's not the  book's focus, design theory makes its way almost unintentionally onto each  page.  This isn't a design book, so it doesn't actually _instruct_ you in  the art.  But the images in the book are competent, generic examples of  standard principles of design.  If you follow the basic constructs the  author offers, you will, perhaps without meaning to, produce work that is  suitably well-designed for almost any commercial purpose.  <br />Second, the  book gives an overview of how to get your designs from idea to computer to  paper.  It doesn't tell you specifically how to use your particular  software or a particular printing company.  I'm not sure the word  &quot;Adobe&quot; or &quot;Corel&quot; appears anywhere in the text.  What  it gives you are the steps necessary to create high quality work on a  shoestring budget.  It gives you information about where to get clip art,  how to deal with an illustrator specifically hired for a certain job, what  are the most common fonts used in professional applications, how to ensure  you're not violating copyright.   These are areas that have had relatively  minimal coverage in the instructional press, so the somewhat scant  attention this book gives is a comparative abundance.  In particular, the  book has helpful information on how to find a good service bureau for your  final output.   The notion of contracting with printers in other parts of  the country is a concept that will be foreign to a number of readers.  It's  a common practice to large companies, but this book makes real the  possibility for smaller businesses and home enthusiasts.      <br />Third, the  book reaches people who have a great deal of experience with desktop  publishing, but may need a single, unified resources for the multiplicity  of &quot;special&quot; projects they infrequently  may be called upon to  make.  How do you make buttons, for instance?  How do you label a shipping  tube?  How do you create a magnetized memo?  Who makes baseball caps and  can I create my own design for them?  Can I really make personalized  coasters for my 15th high school reunion?  Where can I have personalized  Post-It (tm) Notes made?   These, and many other &quot;unusual&quot;  projects are given great attention in this book.  <br />Indeed, this is really  the book's focus. The author, Chuck Green, has an obvious passion for  personalization.  He wants you to know that for any purpose, be it  commercial or personal, there's a way to make a great impression that you  haven't thought about. In that quest, Mr. Green has used his book to  centralize thousands of disparate addresses, phone numbers, and ideas into  one location so that you can get started almost immediately.  For its  modest price it will give you more solid, usable advice than many more  expensive, application-specific volumes.<br />And the book doesn't stop with  the last page.  There's a very cool website associated with the book that  will help you continue on in your knowledge.  To be sure, you don't need to  read the book to access the website, but I think it's a measure of the  passion the author has for his subject that he's willing to continue  devoting time to it by maintaining an active, growing website. This is no  `hack' author trying to cash in on the desktop publishing phenomenon.  This  is someone who really cares about what he writes and wants to continue  giving you the most up-to-date information possible. <br />Despite all this, I  think there are groups who might be disappointed with the book.  If you  alreadydo a lot of specialized jobs for your clients, the ideas may seem  quite basic.  I think, too, that if you're just printing newsletters or the  occasional flyer, you might think this book is full of useless information.   <br />But I think that such people are entirely  in the minority.   This book  has a tremendous amount to offer for the even slightly creative.   Even if  you _thought_ you only did newsletters for your church or flyers for your  club, the wealth of information here makes you _want_ to do more and better  work than you've done before.   And that, I suppose, is the very point of  desktop publishing in the first place.	2000-03-15
US	51680053	RSL74QUQSGEWW	0782126332	923716403	Ensemble Studios Official Strategies & Secrets to Microsoft's Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Invaluable resource in improving to mastery	AOK is a complex game, and you won't be able to get all its nuances without help.  This is the help you need. By giving insight into the AI of various units, you come away with winning strategies during single-player  action.  Insight into the strenghts and weaknesses of each unit prove  absolutely indispensible to network play.  And the sections on the making  of the game give anyone with even an inkling towards game design a better  idea about the process of creating one of the most solidly playable games  on the market.<br />Most strategy guides are either rehashes of the obvious,  or so incredibly detailed they take much of the fun out of playing.  This  one strikes the right balance by giving you detailed information about the  capabilities of the various units and empires, while never asserting a  &quot;proper&quot; way to employ that information.<br />If you want to get  maximum enjoyment out of your software purchase, this is the guide that  will get you there.	2000-01-25
US	51680053	R21MB7Q2YTTJI4	0789716585	448572740	Using the Windows 98 Registry (Using Series)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Great for mysified Mac users	As someone with a background in the comparatively 'easier' (and more stable) Mac world, I found this book, more than any other Windows 98 guidebooks, to be the most useful in terms of explaining why my Wintel  product was failing.  The book is exceptionally well-designed.  Not only is  the materially organized in a useful fashion, the page-layout makes things  easy to read.  The author's writing style is crisp and engaging, and that  which he is trying to teach is genuinely useful.  Indeed, _Using the  Windows 98 Registry_ is so straightforward in its approach, I felt like I  was reading a tech manual for a Macintosh product.  I would second another  reviewers' comments, though, that future editions could benefit from the  inclusion of case studies.	2000-01-11
US	51680053	RFKEIVD4EWZAM	0684177722	915648919	Grossman's Guide to Wines, Beers, and Spirits	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Grossman's sets a standard	Meant principally as a textbook, _Grossman's_ is nevertheless imminently readable for fun.  If you feel awkward in some social situations because you can't comment intelligently on fine drink, this is a good place to  start.  You'll come away from the book with a working knowledge of:<br />         * world wine regions<br />     * legal definitions of various liquor  types<br />     * liquor, beer and wine production<br />     * principles of  marketing and purchasing<br />     * beverage service<br />     * proper  glassware<br />     * liquor trivia<br />  Certainly, this book lacks a  contemporary voice. With an original copyright date of 1940, some of the  text has remained unaltered for 60 years. It misses trends in recent  American beer production, and doesn't give very complete information about  emerging wine producers, such as post-Apartheid South Africa.  But at its  heart, this is a thoroughly objective textbook which has been written and  continuously edited specifically to be brand-neutral.  This makes it the  pre-eminent textbook for use in a general survey course on liquor service,  or an invaluable resource for anyone trying to gain a healthy appreciation  for alcohol.	2000-01-09
US	51680053	R2LV23OEGIU6WX	0789718022	575283931	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Networking	Books	1	10	12	N	N	Avoid being a complete idiot	This is the first _Idiot's Guide_ I've ever bought, and if others are like this one it will be my last.  <br />It's hard to figure out what exactly this book was designed to do.  It gives almost no helpful information in the  actual preparation of a network, but instead focuses (inasmuch as it ever  does come to a point) on the nature of networks.  Maybe this is good stuff  for those facing a written exam in a theoretical course in college, but for  those of us in the real world, there's simply not much here.  Don't expect  that this book will actually help you set up a network.  <br />Apparently this  a &quot;Complete Idiot's Guide&quot; not because it explains how to set up  a network in simple terms, but because you feel like a complete idiot after  buying it.	2000-01-09
US	51680053	R17IM6TAYH8KDG	1562059491	134263765	Designing Web Graphics.3 (3rd Edition)	Books	4	60	62	N	N	The audience is the thing	This book is intended for a certain audience, and for that audience this book largely succeeds.  If you have little knowledge of web design and basic graphical concepts, there are few books on the market which equal  Weinman for her general advice.  More advanced web authorers may well be  able to pick apart the code she gives here as faulty in some regards, but  for a general overview of basic concepts, she's hard to beat.  I found her  discussion of color use and image resolution to be particularly helpful at  the time I read it, even though now I might regard that information as  terribly basic.  Weinman has a unique gift, I think, for teaching, and I  found her writing style engaging, even if there were, as has been stated  elsewhere, a few contentual errors.  <br />Of course, we're at a different  point in web development than we were when this book was written almost a  year ago.  Now, many company websites give you much of this information as  a part of their websites.  Macromedia in particular has much of the advice  of this book for free on its website--if you look for it.  <br />Who, then,  should buy this book?  I think if you have a less-than-stellar web  connection, or have problems spending hours reading text from websites, or  simply do better learning from a real book, this is a great starting point.   <br />Also, if you see teachers as fallible individuals whose value is  principally in their ability to inspire less than in the absolute precision  of their facts, this is your book as well.  <br />And if you want a great  collection of well-organized references from which to continue your  learning, this, too, is where you want to start.  Weinman has saved her  readers--especially those with slow ISPs--the bother of scouring the net  for valuable design resources.  There are hundreds of top-notch graphic  design web sites listed here by content, which can well save you HOURS of  searching if you have a slow web connection, or if your searching skillsaren't what they might be.<br />To be sure, there's valid criticism to make of  this book. However, &lt;designing web graphics.3&gt; has so much potential  applicability that a simple panning of it is entirely undeserved.  If you  know your way around any Macromedia(-like) product, you probably would  think of this as a 1-star kind of book.  But if, like its intended  audience, you don't know a JPG from a hole in the wall, this is a 5-star  effort.	2000-01-08
