US	51701856	R2SNOIFYN45CLM	084395423X	930583205	She Wakes	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Eerie supernatural thriller	What could be lovelier than Greece on a beautiful day? Gorgeous sunsets, romantic beaches, awe-inspiring ancient ruins. Oh, and don't forget the shambling, rotting, walking dead who are intent on rending and killing. And you might want to consider the powerful force that seems to be getting back into the swing of taking control and cutting a path of destruction. Other than that, things are just peachy in the land of mythological gods.<br /><br />I wasn't quite sure how Ketchum would handle a supernatural novel. He is so adept at creating the most heinous and believable--but still very human--monsters. I didn't need to worry. This is an unsettling story with interesting characters, and a villainess who packs a punch. I didn't want to stop reading, and to me, that's always a sign of a good story. Ketchum continues to prove that he is firmly in place as one of America's great horror writers. Bravo!	2004-09-30
US	51701856	R3GHSLRCQCAYWO	1566194466	625564332	Four complete novels	Books	5	7	9	N	N	How can you argue with the classics?	Wells was and remains one of the masters. This big volume contains The Time Machine, The Island of Dr. Moreau, The Invisible Man, and The War of the Worlds. It's a large hardcover that is worth each and every word. I bought an extra copy to pass down to my young nieces and nephew so they can one day get to know the great H.G. Wells.	2004-04-04
US	51701856	R1LAPEUJ1KOW3D	0971574308	862498188	The Plantation	Books	1	33	49	N	N	Doesn't live up to its blurbs	I don't even know where to begin with a review of this novel. What is it that bothers me so much about this story? Is it the constant adolescent, homophobic banter between the two main characters? Is it the fact that the characters are all one-dimensional without any seeming motivation for their behaviors or even a shred of realistic humanity about them? Is it the cartoonish \\"I would have gotten away with it if it weren't for you meddling kids\\" twist that the story kept taking? Was I just in a bad mood while reading this story?<br /><br />Perhaps the author is writing for a demographic that doesn't include me. That's fine, and I can accept that. Perhaps I just don't understand the inner male mind. I can accept that as well, although I have to say that I do not know any *adult* males who joke constantly about gay sex, genitals, buttocks, and bodily functions. Perhaps I was just unable to suspend disbelief to the extreme that I would have needed in order to relax and enjoy a story like this. I will accept the blame on all counts.<br /><br />But this story just never rang true for me at all. The villains were not very believable. The \\"slaves\\" were passive sheep with no independent thought. Ariane was, at best, a watered down version of a heroine. Payne and Jones were supposed to be super trained military experts who were the best in the world but who couldn't figure out some pretty basic things about their quest. Every character seemed more like a caricature to me rather than a real human being. For me, this book read like a straight-to-video action movie screenplay.<br /><br />This novel features some rather graphic violent scenes. Actually, these were the highlights in my opinion. Kuzneski indicates that he did extensive research into plantations and the treatment of slaves and wanted to convey the extreme horror of their treatment in his story. None of this bothered me in the least, and this level of violence made sense within the context of the plot. I just simply could not get into the story because of numerous typos, misspellings, and outright errors and because of a narrative that was quite disjointed. This is a novel that is heavy on dialogue and short on character development. I wish this author the best of luck in his writing career, and I hope that opinions like mine are few and far between.t into the story because of numerous typos, misspellings, and outright errors and because of a narrative that was quite disjointed. This is a novel that is heavy on dialogue and short on character development. I wish this author the best of luck in his writing career, and I hope that opinions like mine are few and far between.	2004-03-13
US	51701856	R3L2W6A66077C	0738841943	863613780	Black Moon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One heck of a fun read!	Ok, take a witch who is on the far side of her second century, an immortal who is having a few problems with power loss, a horde of vampires out for blood (pun intended), and a local deputy who needs a serious attitude adjustment. Now throw in a healthy dose of sibling rivalry, dark powers churning for revenge, side-splitting humor, and a loveable but scathingly funny talking cat, and you have yourself a great story.<br /><br />Canada and Gaither credit Laurell K. Hamilton as one of their influences, and it is easy to see that influence in Black Moon. But don't walk away thinking that this is a copy-cat of Hamilton's creations. Black Moon stands firmly on its own as a fun, engaging, creepy, and action-packed story. The characters are well developed, and I found myself literally laughing out loud over their dialogue and inner thoughts. Midnight the talking cat is a hoot, and the fact that he is a cat who also talks actually works quite well in this story.<br /><br />I am so impressed with this debut novel that I have recommended Black Moon to numerous people. I have also read this book twice, which is the ultimate compliment coming from someone with hundreds of unread books sitting around the house. The world of Poppy and her friends--and some not quite friends--is amazing and well developed considering the fact that this is only the first in what I hope will be a long series of books. I look forward to the next in the series, Blood Moon, which is now on the shelves (and on my nightstand!). I hope to see much more of Poppy, Romo, Rush, Danny, Raven, Midnight, and Jean-Tou. I wonder what has happened to the young girl who fled into the woods after \\"meeting\\" Romo? I also wonder if my favorite character Nicolas might somehow make a future appearance?<br /><br />This is a first-time novel by new authors that you should not pass up. Black Moon is dark fantasy at its best and has the right mixture of snappy humor as well as chills and thrills.	2004-03-13
US	51701856	R2NDYYQ22NYDGP	0786012757	395410691	After Human	Books	2	3	5	N	N	I know there is a plot there somewhere...	Let me preface this review by stating that I am a reader, not a writer. I admire anyone who has the stamina to not only write a novel but to also go through the craziness that is publishing to get a book on the shelves. I like reading new authors, and I especially enjoy following an author as he develops his craft.<br /><br />Having said that, I also like a book that has an interesting story. I found After Human to be somewhat disjointed--I was never quite sure where the characters were going, what they were doing, why they were doing it, or, for that matter, who they were in the overall story. Maybe that's the point. Maybe Cross intended this to be a very surreal look at the blurred line between reality and the fantasy world created by the media and gobbled up by an unthinking public. It seems to be a post-apocalyptic story involving some form of vampire or undead creature. There is a high body count, a lot of blood and gore, graphic sex, and scenes of torture. Oh, and those are all done for the fun and amusement of these ultra chic creatures who are bored and need to kill in order to liven up their days. I have no problem with sex and violence in my reading as long as they fit in with the flow of the story, but the story never really flowed regardless of the sex and violence.<br /><br />I'm willing to concede that perhaps I just didn't get the story. Perhaps it is over my head. All I know is that after reading all 299 pages, I can't really tell you the gist of the story. There are also quite a few typographical errors throughout this edition, and although this certainly is not due to any fault of Cross, the errors proved even more distracting in an already confusing story.<br /><br />If you like sexually ambiguous, bored, pop culture fetishist vampires who don't really follow the \\"rules\\" of traditional vamps, then you should give this book a try. I give Cross points for decent writing, and I honestly would try another book by him. After Human, however, will not remain in my collection.ollection.	2004-02-20
US	51701856	R3SUPJO5P25MMG	0786016124	194626783	Risen	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good pacing, interesting characters, fun read	The blurb on the cover of this book compares this story to those of Stephen King and Dean Koontz. While I don't necesarily agree with that statement for a variety of reasons, I must say that this was a fun book to read. There isn't anything here that is deep or philosophical--just some chilling back-from-the-dead scenes, a growing sense of doom, and a good vs. evil tale.<br /><br />The residents of small-town Anderson go about their daily lives as normal until a miraculous event brings back one of their citizens from the dead. Miracle? Maybe. Brant Kettering chose to move to Anderson in order to escape his own personal ghosts in the big city. Running the local newspaper isn't exactly brain surgery, but he gets to know the locals and tries to adjust to small-town life. When his girlfriend's moody teenage son, Tom, confesses a horrible crime and an even more horrific resurrection mystery, Brant decides that he cannot just sit back and watch his new town be destroyed. Tom and Brant work together in a frantic effort to save Anderson, but with no way to tell who the Risen are, paranoia and terror quickly set in.<br /><br />I like that this author doesn't pull any punches. I may have gasped a couple of times over some events in the book, but all the action is logical given the frame of what is happening in this little town. The roach scene (one of my personal phobias) was enough to make me put down the book several times before I finally managed to get through it all. No, this book is nothing like what I've long admired of Stephen King's work, but it is deserving of its own niche in the horror genre, and let's face it--really GOOD zombie novels are few and far between (if these characters can even be described as zombies, which is debatable), so it's good to have another on the shelf.	2004-02-18
US	51701856	R2TJEBKEJ782MW	0671741039	907356964	Swan Song	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Stands the test of time	I first read Swan Song when it was released back in the 80s. I remember loving it then, but I never realized how much of this epic I had forgotten until I recently re-read it. Amazing! McCammon creates a believable nuclear holocaust and provides just the right visuals with his descriptions of the barren, destroyed, or mutated landscapes and animals, of people gone crazy or blood-hungry, and of once just regular, unnoticeable people who evolve into heroes and monsters.<br /><br />This is not a quick read (my paperback is 956 pages long), but I was amazed to find that I couldn't put it down; I kept reading, and once I got to the end, I really wanted more story. McCammon really hits a homerun with this book because I love the story, the writing, the characters, and the classic theme of good vs. evil. The book really stands the test of time because the issues are as relevant today as they were nearly 20 years ago.<br /><br />Comparisons with Stephen King's The Stand are inevitable. There are similar themes and characters in each book. Yet this one stands on its own--I think an earlier review credited Swan Song with giving King his idea for The Stand, but unless I'm totally wrong, King's book was released nearly a decade before Swan Song. Yes, the books are somewhat similar, but each one tells a unique, dynamic story, and Swan Song is nothing short of phenomenal. I only wish that McCammon would relent and put out a sequel because I'd love to find out what happens to Swan, Robin, Josh, Aaron, Glory and the legacy of Sister, and I definitely want more of The Man of Many Faces! Great characters, exceptional writing--what more could you want?	2003-10-12
US	51701856	R1VE0RW2OPI9YE	0140293248	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A charming little collection	Jane Rosenall is one among (apparantly) many women trying to find her way in life and especially in love. She enters into quite a few relationships that seem doomed from the start--one in particular with a much older man springs to mind--and she can't quite figure out what she's doing wrong. At one point, she even turns to a &quot;rules&quot; type of book to help her learn how to attract men and to keep their attention and affection. Are we surprised to find out that it doesn't work?<br /><br />I didn't realize that this was a collection of short stories when I first got the book. The stories jump in time, and all but one are written from Jane's point of view. This one story is written about the downstairs neighbors of Jane's beloved aunt. That one really felt out of place to me, and I kept expecting more of that story to enter into the rest of the book. While I would not declare this book to be spectacular, it is charming and witty, and I enjoyed it. It's one of those books that you can easily finish off in an evening or on a trip. Jane's darkly humorous way of looking at things and her word play make this a fun read.	2003-09-08
US	51701856	R1YGCXET6LQ4C1	038533558X	734473825	Gone For Good	Books	4	0	0	N	N	High marks for fun reading (mellion108)	Will Klein has lived with shadows for over 11 years. It was that long ago when the girl he loved was viciously raped and murdered. What's worse is that his much idolized older brother Ken fled after being figured as the lead suspect. The Klein family has lived with the shame of not knowing whether or not their older son is innocent, and they have faced the accusing looks of neighbors and reporters for over a decade. Flash forward to the present and Will is working with at-risk kids. He's living with a wonderful, loving woman. His life seems to be fine until his lover disappears just shortly after his dying mother tells him that his brother is alive. From that point forward, Will's life is turned upside-down as he risks his life to find out the truth. He races against an old friend, The Ghost, who has turned into a sociopathic assasin, and he fights to find the woman he loves and to restore some sanity to his broken family.<br /><br />Yes, Coben seems to be borrowing from his own plots. The assumed-dead and now-alive person is straight out of Tell No One. However, I like the characters, and I like Will's voice throughout the book. This is a fast, fun read that doesn't require a great deal of thinking--it's perfect for the beach or for a lazy weekend. It has mystery, suspense, action, and humor. It may never win a literary prize, but I liked it quite a bit, and I anxiously await my next Coben book.<br />(reviewer: mellion108 from Michigan)	2003-08-07
US	51701856	R29DOCH5NP35TN	0312201656	477658660	I Capture the Castle	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Refreshing and delightful (mellion108)	In the first few pages of her journal, Cassandra Mortmain paints an amusing, whimsical, and somewhat depressing picture of her life in a crumbling castle in the English countryside. She lives here with her sister Rose, her brother Thomas, her father James, her stepmother Topaz, and the family's live-in helper Stephen Colly. They live a life of genteel poverty, quite often not having enough income to feed the family. James Mortmain has a more-than-serious case of writer's block having once traveled and lectured on his critically aclaimed book. Now the family has no other income than that contributed by the hard working Stephen who would gladly hand over all that he owns to win Cassandra's favor. In the opening scene, Cassandra discusses the family's poverty and the fact that they have sold off nearly every stick of furniture in order to make ends meet. As the family sits down to tea, Cassandra writes of the unexpected treat of having eggs. She exclaims, &quot;I was only expecting bread and margarine for tea, and I don't get as used to margarine as I could wish. I thank heaven there is no cheaper form of bread than bread.&quot;<br /><br />This book is told in first person and is the journal that Cassandra keeps over the course of a year. We learn her fears and dreams, and we get to know her family through her eyes. When two handsome, wealthy, and exotic Americans show up to claim their birthright, Cassandra and Rose are both thrown into their first encounter with romantic love. Cassandra tells a sweet and touching story woven through with a great deal of humor which keeps this story from becoming dull and whining. We literally get to read Cassandra's march from being an awkward girl to developing into a charming young woman making her mark on the world.<br /><br />As trite as it might sound, this is truly an enchanting book. I kept thinking that the author was doing such a remarkable job of creating an authentic atmosphere with the dialogue, clothing, and current events of the time. Then I found out that the book was originally written in the 1940s which isn't a far leap from the 30s setting of the book! This is also penned by the author who wrote One Hundred and One Dalmations. I recommend this for anyone who has no problems reading books such as Jane Eyre or Pride and Prejudice. While this is certainly less stuffy than the &quot;classics,&quot; it is nonetheless a treat to read.<br />(reviewer: mellion108 from Michigan)the time. Then I found out that the book was originally written in the 1940s which isn't a far leap from the 30s setting of the book! This is also penned by the author who wrote One Hundred and One Dalmations. I recommend this for anyone who has no problems reading books such as Jane Eyre or Pride and Prejudice. While this is certainly less stuffy than the &quot;classics,&quot; it is nonetheless a treat to read.<BR>(reviewer: mellion108 from Michigan)	2003-08-07
US	51701856	RS4VK17NT3R85	0142001805	89209679	The Eyre Affair: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Put this Next on your list of "must reads" (mellion108)	Thursday Next is a literary agent of a different sort. Living in an alternate reality of 1985 England, Thursday works as a Special Operative (SO) in literary detection. It is her job to track down the deadbeats and dredges of society--those people who dare to harm or forge great literary works. You see, this is a society that is ga-ga over literature. Instead of drug pushers on the corner, you are more likely to find someone trying to sell you blackmarket, forged copies of Shakespeare's works. The job alone is daunting enough with little praise, but then enters the most vile and dangerous criminal of all, Acheron Hades<br />(his brother is Styx). Hades has phenomenal powers and is the smartest and most sociopathic of criminals. His goal is to kidnap great literary figures from original manuscripts in order to hold the world hostage to his demands. Thursday must use all the resources available to her including time travel and her eccentric genius uncle's inventions to track down the accursed Hades before he destroys these works of literary art.<br /><br />It isn't often that I pick up a book by a first-time author and then proceed to shout its praises from the rooftops. But Jasper Fforde has created a world that is simply fascinating. A bit science fiction, a bit satire, a bit fantasy...there is everything here for the dedicated reader. I had heard that it was a good idea to re-read Jane Eyre before tackling this novel, but I had no problem following the storyline despite the fact that it has probably been at least 20 years since I read Jane Eyre. There are tons of literary allusions and in-jokes in this novel, but don't let that intimidate you. The fun here is in the story, the story, the story.<br /><br />I have praised this book to other people so much that I have to be careful to avoid revealing spoilers and ruining it for others. Let's just say that I chuckled at many of the character names in the novel. I fell in love with the dodos that have been reintroduced to the world. I guffawed at the lisping vampire and the production of Richard III that was more like a midnight showing of \\"Rocky Horror.\\" I also related to Thursday because her troubles and anxieties over her career, family, and love life. Mostly I just found myself in awe of a society that values literature over empty fame and fortune. There is a little bit of something for any reader in this book.<br />(mellion108 from Michigan)ld. I guffawed at the lisping vampire and the production of Richard III that was more like a midnight showing of \\"Rocky Horror.\\" I also related to Thursday because her troubles and anxieties over her career, family, and love life. Mostly I just found myself in awe of a society that values literature over empty fame and fortune. There is a little bit of something for any reader in this book.<BR>(mellion108 from Michigan)	2003-07-30
US	51701856	R2MT12K76GZDAN	0843950757	540957532	Monstrosity	Books	2	1	1	N	N	A few scares, little suspense (mellion108 from Michigan)	Elderly Professor Fredrick and his student team begin their excursion into an ancient Ponoye site. On the verge of perhaps the most astounding archaeological discovery in modern times, Professor Fredrick is both awed and frightened by the bizarre and amazingly well-preserved bodies found in what appears to be some ceremonial sacrifice. Elsewhere in Florida, Clare Prentiss is a former Air Force Security Specialist who now finds herself homeless and trying to turn a buck as a deodorant tester. She is offered a too-good-to-be-true job as head of security at a secret cancer research site in a remote location. What does she have to lose? Once Clare joins the small security team, crazy things start to happen. Large, mutated, hungry creatures roam the swamplands and the water. People disappear. And Clare can't help but wonder what is going on behind the only locked door that she is not allowed to access. Little does Clare know that all the nightmares from her past are about to slam into some very new, even more frightening terrors. Who can she trust? What does Professor Fredrick's discovery have to do with what is happening on the island?<br /><br />This is the second full novel that I've read by Edward Lee (the first being City Infernal). Although I liked Monstrosity better, that really doesn't say a lot because I really didn't care for the first novel. Lee writes some amazingly disturbing and creepy short stories, but I have not seen the same quality in his novels. Monstrosity is rather good as a type of B movie scare, and it has more than its share of graphic sex and violence, but it lacks an underlying sense of suspense and fear that I like to find in horror novels. There really is not much that you don't know will happen from the very beginning of the novel. Yes, there are some scary moments (Kari Ann's repeated assaults and her attempts to escape are the highlights of the novel). However, I think that I will stick with Lee's short stories as that seems to be his strong point. His story \\"Mr. Torso\\" remains one of the most disturbing and frightening things I've ever read.oint. His story \\"Mr. Torso\\" remains one of the most disturbing and frightening things I've ever read.	2003-07-28
US	51701856	R125J11U3OJH1O	044014129X	882543807	Incubus	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Surprisingly good (mellion108 from Michigan)	Galen, California is a small coastal town mostly known for its remarkable resemblance to any small New England town. Most of the women in Galen are beautiful (or at least striking), and the residents just go on about their normal lives. Then tragedy strikes, and a young woman is brutally raped and murdered. When this tragedy begins to repeat itself over and over, even the most outlandish explanation seems plausible. Throw in the handsome anthropologist turned supernatural investigator, his love interest (the beautiful local newspaper editor), a dedicated but baffled sheriff, a gruff but loveable town doctor, and a rich but mysterious family with a secret history and a big house on the hill, and you have all the makings for a perfect 70s horror novel. Oh, and mix liberally with sexual innuendo, masculine protectiveness of female virtue, and loads of dreams, hallucinations, and flashbacks to ancient torture practices.<br /><br />I was lucky enough to stumble across this paperback. I really love these 70s and 80s horror paperbacks and tend to hoard them. This one looked especially cheesy, but it turned out to be surprisingly good. The writing is solid, and the characters are interesting. I enjoyed the story overall, and I finished this little gem in just a few hours. As the other reviewer points out, this was made into a 1981 movie starring John Cassavetes and John Ireland. They merely moved Galen from California to New England, but most of the plot remained intact. If you like old horror novels, this one is a must. It's pretty darn good, stands the test of time, and is well worth a trip to your used bookstore to find it.	2003-07-27
US	51701856	R2ASWW1DFEX76Z	0843951257	265201169	The Night Class	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Who's your teacher? (mellion108 from Michigan)	Cal Prentiss seems to float through his life. He's an intelligent, sensitive young man who suffers from a lack of ambition. He loves his girlfriend, but the relationship really isn't going anywhere. He doesn't mind getting an education, but he finds himself stuck in pointless classes like Professor Yokver's philosophy course. Then he returns to his dorm room after winter break to find that something terrible occurred there while he was gone. The new paint on the walls and the new mattress on the bed can't cover up the fact that someone was murdered. Cal then becomes obsessed with finding out more about the dead young woman. His relationships suffer, and his grades fall as he finds himself thinking day and night about the woman and the person responsible for taking her life. Could this be related to the stigmata that Cal has suffered at various times in his life? Incredibly, on the day he storms out of Professors Yok's class, Cal swirls closer and closer to finding out the gruesome truth about this murder as well as about the people closest to him.<br /><br />Piccirilli writes with a subtlety that is quite refreshing in the world of in-your-face horror. There are blood, violence and sex in this story, but the imagery is more focused on the reaction of Cal as well as his innermost thoughts rather than shock value. This novel has a surreal, dreamlike quality; all the events are seen through Cal's eyes as interpreted by him, and Cal seems to be losing his grip on reality most of the time. One of my favorite passages is: \\"Foolishly he listened to the squeaks he made as he dragged his wet fists along the shining metal handrails, leaving behind red trails.\\"<br /><br />I really liked this story and have no regrets about buying it. This ends up being more of a crime suspense thriller rather than out and out horror, but it is nonetheless very much worth the time to read it.	2003-07-26
US	51701856	R22Y3Y0OJQ0EPD	0671444867	825676561	Blood Fever	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Want a little cheese with that horror? (mellion108)	This is a 1982 paperback. Although Amazon indicates that it is published by Harlequin, the copy I have is Pocket Books through S&S. It has the same ISBN though. The author is Shelley Hyde.<br /><br />Things are usually quiet in the little town of Broughton. Kids go to school, moms make dinner and keep house, dads go to work, and everyone cheers on the local football heroes of the town's only high school. But when Harry Timmons leaves his job at the virology lab to come home to his beloved wife Arlene, he can't begin to imagine what he'll find there. The snarling, homicidal beast he meets in the dark is not the gentle, timid woman he fell in love with back in high school. One by one the women of this small town start going berserk and kill any male that crosses their path. Police investigator Ralph Peterson senses that something just isn't right when Harry is brought in for murder. Once tragedy strikes his own family, Peterson begins to pursue the case in hopes of uncovering the forces at work in his town as well as a way to stop it before it spreads.<br /><br />This is a typical cheesey horror book of the late 70s/early 80s. The cover is screamingly funny, and the author really makes no effort to hide the \\"We are surpressed women, and this is what happens when men don't listen to us\\" symbolism of the story. It's light, it's a quick read, and it's actually rather funny because the story makes no sense at all. It's perfect reading for when you don't want to think for a couple of hours!<br />(mellion108 from Michigan)	2003-07-25
US	51701856	RAMMWMZ1JTOMG	0440236703	718492514	Tell No One	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Light, quick, fun thriller (mellion108)	Dr. David Beck lives under the constant shadow of his wife's abduction and brutal murder eight years ago. Although he knows he must move on, he can't forget the only woman he loved since childhood. Then one day David gets a myterious message directing him to a Web site. What he finally sees on the site nearly stops his heart--is that who he thinks it is? Who is the person sending him these messages with phrases only he and his wife shared? And why is this person warning him to \\"tell no one?\\"<br /><br />This is the first Coben novel that I read, and I enjoyed it. Yes, you need to suspend disbelief somewhat, but it is an all-around fun suspense thriller that can be read easily in one sitting. Coben allows David to tell his own story which is both suspensful and humorous at times. David's self-deprecating manner makes him an edearing character.<br /><br />I think this book is worth the read. Take it to the beach, read it on your commute, curl up on the couch on a rainy day...it may not be deeply profound, but it's a fun read. I also recommend Gone For Good--very similar plots, but I think I actually liked it better than Tell No One.<br />(mellion108 from Michigan)	2003-07-24
US	51701856	RM904DK2DCRFR	0446324388	902701329	Magic Cup -OSI	Books	3	7	9	N	N	So much potential (mellion108)	Cormac MacDermot, High King of Ireland, is cast out of his homeland and wanders the countryside with his slavegirl Brigid (Biddy), and his faithful wolfhound, Podraig, in search of the magic cup and a magical princess. He leaves behind his dying father and his evil witch stepmother and encounters assasins, magical folk, allies, and pirates on his adventure. Although his lust for Biddy grows stronger as she develops into a lucious young woman, Cormac tries to convince himself that she is his foster daughter rather than a potential lover. The two bicker and argue throughout the tale. As Cormac grows closer to completing his quest, he begins to realize that young Biddy may not be the person he--and she--always thought she was.<br /><br />This is the first book by Greeley that I've read, and that perhaps colors my opinion of his writing. Greeley includes a few pages of notes at the end of the novel to explain the origins of this ancient Celtic myth and how it later became translated and changed into a more Westernized and romanticized version of the Arthurian legends. This is perhaps the most interesting part of the novel, and the reason I rank this at 3 stars. I also appreciated Greeley's feel for the Irish countryside; his characters move in and out of these rich sounding villages and kingdoms, and that helps to create a very vivid atmosphere for the book. However, much of the novel focuses on Cormac fighting his desire for Biddy, on Biddy biting back at Cormac with an acid tongue, and on the two of them playing a will-they-won't-they sexual intrigue. There are a great many pages devoted to how some young wench looks in a wet gown. I found this to be quite tiresome, especially with lines such as \\"One could, after all, eat cheese and kiss a girl.\\" I like the Arthurian legends, and I was looking forward to reading something that came from an even older myth. This is not the novel that I hoped to get lost in because I was constantly rolling my eyes at the descriptions of sexual chastity or voracity. This is, however, a quick read that most readers should be able to finish in an afternoon. You might want to read the afterward by Greeley first because that contains quite a bit of interesting history of the legend on which this tale is based.<br />(mellion108 from Michigan)ual chastity or voracity. This is, however, a quick read that most readers should be able to finish in an afternoon. You might want to read the afterward by Greeley first because that contains quite a bit of interesting history of the legend on which this tale is based.<BR>(mellion108 from Michigan)	2003-07-20
US	51701856	R2RF8W3ZK17RYT	0385471440	63696294	The Wedding: A Novel	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Simple story, complex characters (mellion108)	Shelby Coles chooses a husband, and this should be cause for a glorious celebration for the pampered summer residents of The Oval at Martha's Vineyard. However, it is the skin color of her beloved that unravels the underlying issues of race, identity, and history among these people. Set in the 50s, The Wedding portrays generational and contemporary issues among a group of upper-class African-Americans. The reader is allowed to glimpse into the most personal of issues with the various characters including Shelby herself, her mother, her father, and her grandmother. When a horrible tragedy is introduced into the mix, we also see how these characters either pull together or fall apart.<br /><br />Yes, this is a novel that touches on racial issues and \\"place\\" in society. It is difficult to present these characters without also presenting the way that skin color affects all aspects of their lives. However, I really appreciate the intricate family relationships that are presented in this story. West does an amazing job of painting some realistic people during a very confusing time in American history.<br />(mellion108 from Michigan)	2003-07-19
US	51701856	RZUNK3EIVXMUV	0385333404	895394482	Dating Big Bird	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Amusing (mellion108)	For whatever reason, I find myself reading a lot of \\"chick lit\\" lately. Considering that my first love is horror, I'm finding it interesting to read the same things that so many of my friends are reading. I got this book without ever intending to read it, but I opened it and had to finish it.<br /><br />Ellen Franck is yet another in a long line of successful, single, and neurotic New York City residents to grace the pages of novels in recent years. She works for a world-famous designer, and she dates Malcolm, a professor who is profound, kind, and impotent in more ways than one as a result of the death of his son. Now Ellen finds herself \\"staring down the dark side of thirty-five\\" and contemplating her future. She knows one thing: She wants a baby. She is crazy for her niece, Nicole (\\"The Pickle\\"), and she experiences heartbreak everytime she sees someone pushing a stroller on the street. What is a thirty-something gal to do when she doesn't have a viable partner to help her create a Little Pickle of her own? Well, if you're Ellen, you give yourself nine months to thoroughly research all your options, to drive everyone around you insane with baby talk, and to continue to obsess about every small detail of your life.<br /><br />This is a super-fast read (I finished it in just a few hours), and it doesn't require a lot of deep thought. There are no life mysteries resolved in these pages, but Zigman manages to make this an amusing, fun read that is probably perfect to read on a day at the beach or in a few hours curled up on your sofa on a rainy day. Aside from Ellen's own obsessions, there aren't a lot of complex issues at work here. Also, if you are one of the women in her 30s who has never felt that desire to create a Little Pickle (like me), you might find it difficult to relate to Ellen's quest. Warning: This is the epitome of Chick Lit, and I don't think testosterone is allowed to open the cover.<br />(mellion108 from Michigan)	2003-07-19
US	51701856	RYU1RL3V5IQTG	0451173406	560235885	Suspicion of Innocence	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Starts off slow but picks up speed	Gail Connor is ambitious, smart, and successful. She is working her way up to partner in her law firm while neglecting the people closest to her. When her sister is found with her wrists slashed, Gail starts to rethink her life. Then when this suicide is investigated as a homicide, Gail has to scramble to prove that she is innocent of the murder. Along the way, Gail meets the handsome and charming Anthony Quintana, a Cuban-America attorney with a flair for criminal cases (and women).<br /><br />I have to admit that I dragged myself through about half of this novel. I didn't really care for Gail Connor. She seemed rather cold and judgemental. Perhaps that is the opinion the reader is supposed to get in the beginning. I really don't think I liked her any better by the end of the novel, but I at least liked the story much more once the action started to pick up speed. As for the Miami setting? If the city is really as superficial and dangerous as presented in the book, then I have no idea how anyone manages to live there! I would like to read more about Anthony Quintana and his family, so I'm willing to take a chance on the second book in this series.<br /><br />If you start this one, give it some time. It really starts off at a slow pace, but the second half of the book is worth the wait.	2003-07-19
US	51701856	R1SEQVW4UQAYLT	0971977550	66304600	30 Days Of Night	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Evil candy for your eyes	Perhaps it's because I'm not a frequent reader of graphic/comic novels (not sure what the PC term is now), but I really enjoyed this one. It's dark. It's brooding. It evokes the sense of isolation, cold, and fear of this little Alaskan town quite well. The art is fantastic--so many of the images are glimpses into the horror that's taking place rather than full in-your-face images. Sure, the story isn't the most original, but it certainly can compete with and even beat a lot of the vampire tripe that's out there today. And think about it: How incredibly frightening would it be to deal with 30 full days of darkness without even throwing in the idea of an invasion of the undead?<br /><br />This is an oversized paperback with an eerie, but beautiful cover. I love the feel of this book, and the look is incredible. My only complaint is that I would like to have more of the story! (The comic itself is only about 83 pages long.) Apparantly there is a sequel either in the works or already completed, and I'll certainly put that on my wish list.	2003-07-11
US	51701856	ROZ3SRGWE61RJ	0345426037	309953190	The Broken Hearts Club (Conrad Voort Novels)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Nothing original	Dr. Bainbridge assembles a group of men who all suffer the same thing--they've been dumped by women they loved, and they meet each week to discuss their heartache. But then women begin to die in horrible ways. Is there a connection? Nick Voort is the extremely wealthy and well-dressed NYC detective assigned to try to crack the case of these gruesome but seemingly related deaths.<br /><br />That sounds great except there isn't a great deal that's original about this story. The killer is typical thriller fare, the detective is tough with a sensitive side, and everything seems to pull together despite some rather large plot holes. Along the way, the reader is privvy to Voort's love life, a great deal of rather graphic, steamy sex--which might possibly be the best parts of the novel--and the inner workings of the killer or killers. Black also describes in great detail the expensive clothes worn by most of the characters. This along with my inability to buy into the idea of not one but two very wealthy NYC detectives who are supersleuths really annoyed me and made me want to throw the book across the room at times. I was also disappointed in the television version of the psychology used within the books; it seems to be pulled from every trite movie-of-the-week and pulp thriller that's out there.<br /><br />So, why do I give this a higher rating than 1? I actually enjoyed reading the novel for the most part. Sure, it's not very original, but this is good summertime reading, and it helps to kill a few hours. I was able to read the entire book without giving up on it, so that scores some points in my opinion. Give it a try, just don't expect anything remarkable or original.	2003-07-07
US	51701856	R31TV8EDXKK4NS	0606204563	699235720	If Only It Were True	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Sweet story & charming characters (mellion108 from Michigan)	I'll be perfectly honest: The thing that attracted me to this book was the cover. Yes, the cover is a beautiful artistic aerial view of the Golden Gate bridge swallowed by clouds and fog. My eyes were automatically drawn to the cheerful blue of the cover and the even more brilliant blue of the end papers. Who says you shouldn't judge a book by its cover?<br /><br />One evening, Arthur leaves his bath to investigate a noise from his walk-in closet. To his surprise, he finds beautiful Lauren, and his life is not the same from that moment. She tells him that her body is in a coma at a local hospital, and that Arthur is the only person who can see, hear, or touch her. What ensues from there is an incredible story of faith and love along with several messages to value each second of your life.<br /><br />It might sound corny--and it is--but this story really is quite charming. It's a quick read at about 200 pages, and I managed to polish it off in a couple of hours on a lazy Sunday afternoon. It's perfect summer reading because it requires no complicated plots or deep messages. You simply have to suspend your disbelief and go with the story. This book is in no way Pulitzer material, but it's a good way to wile away a few hours. I actually liked the backstory of Arthur's mother, Lili. I wouldn't mind reading a separate book devoted to Lili and her life.	2003-07-07
US	51701856	R3SX5N0FB45HUW	0451151143	643632870	Twink (Signet)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A brief look at a complex young girl	My copy of this is a mere 127 pages long. The original title of this book was Touching, which is perhaps a better indication of the subject matter.<br /><br />Harry goes to visit his father and step-mother. There is no animosity there, no typical kid-of-divorce angst. He goes on this visit specifically to meet his step-sister, Twinkle, for the first time. Although he has heard much about her, he has never seen her, and Harry tries to brace himself for this first meeting. Twink has cerebal palsy and struggles with even the most basic of functions. Harry feels sick the first time he meets her. Yet, through a lot of questions directed at his step-mother and his other step-sister Whizzer, Harry begins to piece together a charming and touching history of Twink.<br /><br />This is a story that provides a glimpse into the bravery and spunkiness of Twink without being saccharine. It's short, and there really isn't any climax or telling moment at the end--it's merely a vehicle to help Harry (and the reader) learn more about Twink as well as her family's and her own struggles with CP. It's a very quick read. The writing is solid and uncomplicated. All in all, this is a decent, interesting little book.	2003-07-06
US	51701856	R2X3FWD5GPCJZT	0345445848	287871634	Big Cherry Holler: A Novel (Big Stone Gap)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A great read even with the heavy life issues	Well, Eva Maria and Jack Mac have been married 8 years. They have a precocious daughter, Etta, and they have survived the death of their beloved son, Joe. Now they are growing more and more distant, and Eva--being Eva--blames herself and is having problems seeing past her own needs. She listens to everyone's advice (Ida Lou, of course, gives her birds 'n bees advice on how to keep a husband happy), but she really has to get away from it all in order to find out what she really wants.<br /><br />All the wonderful, quirky characters from Big Stone Gap return to make this a fun read. However, don't expect the same level of bust-a-gut humor present in the first book. Eva is much more introspective and is much more enmeshed in the life issues we all face while approaching middle age. This book is not a light read and will most likely push you to consider your own life, your goals, and how you treat the people you love. My only gripe is that Eva's character is the one who seems to bear the brunt of all the ills of her marriage...that's a gripe, however, that does not get in the way of enjoying this novel.<br /><br />I read this in one sitting just because I couldn't put it down. Although it is different than the first in the series, it's a very good read, and I highly recommend it for fans of this type of literature.	2003-07-01
US	51701856	R2GSXJ1DJYZYAB	0843951958	188489315	Face	Books	4	2	2	N	N	No good deed goes unpunished...(mellion108 from Michigan)	Dan, Megan, and Nikki Powell are returning home from holiday in a horrible blizzard when they spot a lone figure in the blinding snow. Dan stops to pick up the stranger in hopes of lending a helping hand. However, as soon as Brand--a name that becomes more symbolic as the novel progresses--enters the car, all three Powells feel his power in different ways, especially once Brand starts asking them for \\"a moment of your time.\\" Dan soon stops the car and forces the man out.<br /><br />Of course, this is the world of horror, so Brand doesn't simply go away. He begins to haunt each family member, preying on his or her darkest fears and self doubts. Megan begins to lose her mind. Dan sees Brand as symbolizing the very thing that threatens his abilities as family protector and as a man. Nikki? Well, teenage Nikki gets in touch with her inner nymph.<br /><br />This was my first Lebbon novel, and I've already purchased a few more. His writing is wonderful, and he manages to present some very descriptive images. My major complaint with this mass market paperback is that Leisure did not take enough time to edit it well. There are numerous (stress on numerous) typographical and grammatical errors. While I can overlook the occasional error, the number of errors in this book was very distracting. I found myself being pulled right out of the story. I don't know if the hardcover edition is better. Regardless, this is a good story by a very promising writer.	2003-06-03
US	51701856	R3FPYVD2EN2DDA	0451459008	139111417	Silk	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Brilliant writing	Kiernan hits a homerun with this one. I finally picked up Silk after letting it sit on my shelf for a very long time. Why did I wait so long? I was blown away by Kiernan's writing style--poetic, languid, dreamlike--although it took me a few pages to warm up to the rhythm of her writing. She's very effective at slowly building the tension and supsense without once unleashing a gore-fest in order to achieve a nightmare quality.<br /><br />Spyder Baxter is the goth-lesbian-store owner-druggie-sometimes mental patient that is at the center of the goings-on in this novel. People who seem to have nowhere else to go are drawn to her. Daria Parker is the ambitious, creative songwriter/bassist for Stiff Kitty, a local Birmingham, Alabama punk group just shy of success. Niki, Keith, Mort, Theo, Byron, Robin, and Walter round out the two groups that become linked by bizarre nightmares and visions of skittering things that manage to avoid being seen directly.<br /><br />This is perhaps a portrait of the terror that can develop from being abused and outcast. Spyder is a very troubled young woman, and her past not only haunts her but reaches out to haunt those closest to her. Silk is not about blood, gore, and a high body count. Yes, the spiders (and the spider-like things) are creepy enough, but the heart of the story is the loneliness, despair, and purposelessness of many of the characters. This is a great tale of suspense, and Kiernan's writing created a sense of unease, of some creeping terror that couldn't be named. I enjoyed this book a great deal, and I'm glad I finally picked it up to read. Highly recommended!	2003-05-06
US	51701856	R12W0I1QTZZ7LZ	0553563580	878969766	Afterage	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Riveting and fun fang tale (mellion108 from Michigan)	How many vampire novels are out there? I can't begin to count the number of them that I've read in the past. Some are fantastic, a lot are really good, and still more are pretty darn bad. Fortunately, Navarro has given us a really, really good vampire novel set in Chicago in the aftermath of a vampiric plague that has ravaged the earth.<br /><br />A relatively small group of human survivors exists in downtown Chicago. They don't know about each other because they all live in fear simply trying to survive each night while the vampires stalk for food. Anyelet is the queen vampire who decided not too long ago to create more of her kind in order to not have to hide her existence. Unfortunately, this quickly grew out of hand, and now the vampires must scrounge for a food source. Navarro gives us a story telling us what happens when these few humans and these powerful vampires clash, and the struggle the humans face to free themselves from the plague.<br /><br />This was such an entertaining and creepy novel to read. There were a few passages that actually had me checking over my shoulder to see if anyone was there (I dare you to read the first several pages detailing the doctor's search and discovery mission without shivering). It's no wonder that this novel gained enough attention to warrant a special hardcover release. The story has adventure, vampires, guns, medical experiments, human slaves used as food, and an apocalyptic vision. Afterage is relatively original, well-written, and fun. Sometimes that's exactly what you need in a good, scary read. If you want something refreshing after reading all those other copycat vampire novels, then give this one a try.	2003-05-06
US	51701856	R2U1IYTNL6PL58	0345438329	46292343	Big Stone Gap: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	You can almost smell the coal smoke	How can I ever forgive Trigiani? I picked this book up only because a friend recommended it. I expected it to be filled with the usual wise but eccentric southerners that seemt to grace so many &quot;southern&quot; novels these days. But Trigiani manages to cross those lines and to create these wonderfully original and quite believable characters. Having grown up near this area of Virginia, I was floored by the on-the-nose descriptions of the mines, the towns, the hollers, the locals, and the environment. I never intended to like this book, but I was in for a surprise!<br /><br />Although Ave (not Ava like the movie star) Maria Mulligan was born in Big Stone, she's still considered a &quot;ferriner&quot; because her mother came to America from Italy. Ave is in her 30s--spinster age by local standards--and even though she's not looking, she suddenly finds out many things about her heritage and about herself. With her world turned on end, Ave navigates the local courting scene with her best friend Theodore while constantly stumbling over the quiet Jack Mac who always seems to be right in front of her. Ave soon finds herself traveling to places--both literally and emotionally--that she never dreamed of going. Throughout all this, Trigiani weaves in descriptions of the land and the mountains along with tales of hope and resignation of the townspeople.<br /><br />With Big Stone Gap, Trigiani gives us romance without the bodice ripping, drama without over-the-top antics, inner turmoil without pop psychology, and humor without cynical sarcasm. I really found myself in the world of these characters, and I was shocked to find that I had finished the book without once looking at the clock. This is such an enjoyable read, and I can't wait to pass along my own copy to yet another unsuspecting friend.	2003-05-01
US	51701856	R3BXKS80D7QON1	0451203593	897342569	24 Hours	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Top Notch Thriller!	Joe Hickey thought the Jennings family would be just like all the other rich families whose children he and his wife, Cheryl, and his cousin, Huey Cotton, have kidnapped in the past. Karen Jennings is a beautiful suburban wife of successful anesthesiologist Will. They live a comfortable lifestyle and dote on their daughter Abby. They are settled into their marriage but neither quite knows when they started drifting apart. Then they are faced with something more important than anything they've ever known. Abby is kidnapped. What do you do if you're faced with seemingly insurmountable odds and pushed into a corner to save your family? If you are Karen and Will Jennings, you fight tooth and nail to save your child and to bring the culprits to justice--even if that justice is delivered by your own hand. What ensues is a torturous, heart-pounding cat and mouse game between the \\"victims\\" and the perpetrators.<br /><br />This novel has it all: car chases, explosions, guns, tenderness, sexual tension, fear, anger, suspense. You name it. Iles seems to write for the sheer enjoyment of telling a good story. This one is sure to keep you awake until you turn the final page.<br /><br />What a way to get introduced to Greg Iles! This is the first of his novels that I've read, and I've already added a couple more of his titles to my bookshelf. A sure page-turner, a good story, complex but realistic characters--you don't get much better than this for entertaining reading. I dare you to read this slowly!	2003-03-28
US	51701856	R3PRJ3TZUO8C6D	1880216620	989514363	Speaks the Nightbird	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A hardcover well worth the price	We have waited too long for a new McCammon novel! I had almost forgotten the wonder of falling into one of his stories. The man weaves magic with his words, and he has now given us yet one more hit.<br /><br />Twenty-year-old legal clerk Matthew Corbett travels with the older, more experienced magistrate Isaac Woodward to the small settlement of Fount Royal to help in the trial of an accused witch. The settlement has been victim of murders, widespread illness and death, horrible weather, fires, crop infestations, and frightening visions and images of acts between evil beings. Robert Bidwell is the wealthy shipping magnate who is determined to see that his investment in the town does not go down the drain. For him, hanging the witch will ease the townspeople's fears and put an end to all the horrible luck the town has witnessed. But although most in the town are convinced that beautiful, willful, intelligent Rachel Howarth is a witch, there are a few--including Matthew--who question the reasons for her incarceration and impending execution. Matthew's unquenchable need to search for the truth leads him into some close calls with some of the locals, and he finds that each person in the town has some piece of information to offer to his investigation.<br /><br />Speaks is a departure from McCammon's more expected horror novels of the past. This is an historical mystery complete with authentic colonial dialogue and accents, clothing, medical treatments, legal and religious practices, and the witchcraft hysteria of the time. Never fear! McCammon still manages to include enough horrific images for this novel to appeal to fans of different genres. This is not a novel for the kiddies, however. There are some graphic sexual images, and the practices of the local physician should make anyone squirm. Yet this novel is far from pornographic as I've read in other reviews here.<br /><br />The writing here is superb--I truly felt like I was watching a movie while I was reading. McCammon uses intrigue, fear, love, anger, subterfuge, hysteria, and the full gamut of human emotions to create a tightly woven mystery that will have you turning pages long into the night. McCammon has always been able to create believable characters dealing with incredible odds, and the events and people in this book are so believable that you won't realize you're reading a novel that is ONLY 726 pages long (I wanted more story by the end)! This is a definite winner, and it reinforces McCammon's place as one of our greatest writers.n uses intrigue, fear, love, anger, subterfuge, hysteria, and the full gamut of human emotions to create a tightly woven mystery that will have you turning pages long into the night. McCammon has always been able to create believable characters dealing with incredible odds, and the events and people in this book are so believable that you won't realize you're reading a novel that is ONLY 726 pages long (I wanted more story by the end)! This is a definite winner, and it reinforces McCammon's place as one of our greatest writers.	2003-03-22
US	51701856	RQI6CVBUI7U4C	0451202767	434717564	Straight on 'Til Morning (Signet Horror)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Well worth your time	Most of the reviews here already provide a good summary of the storyline for this book. What amazes me is that there seems to be a love-it-or-hate-it relationship to this novel.<br /><br />Count me in on the &quot;love it&quot; side. Golden creates some very likeable, some not so likeable, and some amazingly creepy characters. I really liked Kevin, and I found his devotion to Nikki to be touching and genuine. Who hasn't had that overwhelming first love experience as a teen? This novel definitely takes on a dream-like quality in the last quarter, but Golden's writing is believable--I could picture these sequences in my head.<br /><br />Yes, these teens seem to have much more freedom than I did at that age in the 80s. Yes, some of the other worldly creatures are a bit difficult to imagine at first. But somehow all these elements come together quite well. There are some elements of the story that didn't quite click for me, but the good aspects of this story make it well worth the reading time.	2002-09-03
US	51701856	R1YHSNVJY9K4XG	0345416880	281816523	Enchantment	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Card's fairy tale	As soon as young Vanya (later Ivan) runs in panic from the mohel at his house, I knew this was going to be an interesting tale. Card has once again captured my imagination and forced me to lose sleep in order to quickly finish another of his books.<br /><br />After so many reviews here, I'll skip the plot summary. This myth turned fairy tale turned fantasy is a wonderfully written, captivating story combining various cultural myths with some more familiar modern-day fairy tales. The adult Ivan returns to a mystical spot from his childhood and ends up fighting a battle and finding himself transported back in time to a most magical and dangerous place. I absolutely love the fact that Ivan's damsel in distress is far from the simpering weakling most often depicted in &quot;real&quot; fairy tales and is instead an intelligent, assertive, and independent young woman. It is also refreshing that this is not a love-at-first-sight sort of tale. Card is a genius when it comes to creating complex characters who always have more to offer than they first appear. I found myself absolutely lost in this story, and there was no way I could put it down until the last word. This is certainly a treat for all Card fans although it is quite a departure from his more popular science fiction. To borrow from a much-used description, this story is downright enchanting. Devoted fans and those who are new to Card's writing will all enjoy this tale.	2002-09-03
US	51701856	R18GL04Z6I10YO	B000066TRC	609092345	The Girls He Adored	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good read	I was more familiar with Nasaw for his vampire novels (The World on Blood; Shadows), so when I saw this serial killer thriller, I had to give it a chance. What a ride!<br /><br />Over the past 10 years, several women have disappeared; they all have strawberry blonde hair, and they all disappear seemingly without a trace. The killer is caught early in the novel (it begins with his psychiatric interview), and then Nasaw takes us along as the killer kidnaps his psychiatrist and breaks out of jail.<br /><br />Nasaw uses some standard genre elements: the killer has multiple personalities; a psychiatrist is sucked into the killer's world; the body count is high and gruesome; victims are chosen for a specific reason. However, Nasaw then manages to twist these together in a more unique fashion to create a truly good thriller. I really enjoyed reading this, and I hope to see more from Nasaw very soon!	2002-09-01
US	51701856	R2NYM61X7LO3H4	0812572122	291885214	A Stir of Echoes	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Pure Matheson	It's no small wonder that Stephen King heaps praise upon Matheson and gives Matheson credit for influencing his works. Matheson, without a doubt, is one of our all-time greats, and I have yet to read a bad book or short story by him.<br /><br />Surprisingly, I read this novel only after seeing the movie starring Kevin Bacon. Let me say what has pretty much become my life's motto: The book is much better than the film. Tom Wallace is your everyday good joe; he works hard, he supports his family, and he is quite happy to live out his life without much excitement. Thanks to some interesting parlor tricks at a party with some close friends, Wallace finds that he can hear people's most private thoughts, and this often thrusts him into some uncomfortable and dangerous situations. Matheson also lets us in on the conflicts arising with Wallace's family and within himself as he struggles to deal with his blessing/curse.<br /><br />Don't pick this up expecting gruesome, chill-you-to-the-bone horror. This is much more subtle and focuses on the increasing isolation of a man who wants nothing more than to get back his old life. Although the movie twisted this into a thriller, Matheson actually wrote it (at least in my opinion) to be a touching, chilling, and psychological story. This one is a quick read at just over 200 pages, but it packs a punch. If you are new to Matheson, this is a good place to start; then grab HELL HOUSE for something a bit more twisted, bizarre, and creepy!	2002-09-01
US	51701856	RM4Z48MNFOTFC	067102731X	705687442	Every Dead Thing: A Charlie Parker Thriller	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Clear your calendar...	This is a novel to be read in one sitting. I raced through this one because I simply could not put it down for more than a few minutes. Connolly writes with a lyricism and an edginess that are not often found in this genre. He also managed to do something that not many  serial killer/thriller/suspense/detective novels manage to do: surprise me. I was so happy to finally read a novel and not know the outcome by page 20. What a rare treat!<br /><br />I think this is a well-written novel, and I love Connolly's level of description. I could practically smell the gumbo when Charlie Parker travels to deep Louisiana. Gory? You bet. Disconcerting? Quite often. There are numerous characters, a high body count, and plots and sub-plots, but Connolly pulls all these together for a slam-bam finish. I was actually sweating through some of the twists and turns.<br /><br />I am now a confirmed Connolly fan, and I'll be first in line for each new novel from this Irish author.	2002-09-01
US	51701856	R1U7CZ1AASM20G	0886779227	746140410	Single White Vampire Seeks Same	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Fantastic!	Hey, even a vampire/werewolf/succubus needs love and companionship. This collection of short stories takes a dark, sometimes humorous look at what happens when the otherworldly become lonely and seek out someone (or something) to spend those long evenings with. Contributors are:<br />Mickey Zucker Reichert<br />Kristine Kathryn Rusch<br />R. Davis<br />Gary A. Braunbeck<br />Bradley H. Sinor<br />Peter Crowther<br />Esther M. Friesner<br />Tanya Huff<br />Tim Waggoner<br />Nina Kiriki Hoffman<br />Michelle West<br />Charles de Lint<br />There are some well-knowns and some not-so-well-knowns, but this is a strong collection with some incredible short stories. In my reading experience, any anthology bearing Martin. H. Greenberg's name is a sure-fire winner. Don't be fooled by the title; this one has something for everyone, not just the vampire fans. You can't go wrong with this collection!	2002-09-01
US	51701856	R19ZA8UBWPYE97	1588810003	866986576	Morningstar	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Top Notch	Atkins originally wrote a novella called Vampires of Summer that later became Morningstar. Atkins may have given us those Hellraiser sequels, but Morningstar introduced me to his fiction writing. I now know why this author is so well respected. Morningstar combines the best elements of horror, dark fantasy, sci fi, and drama with the creepiness of a great vampire/sociopath/ghost story. Get the picture? It is, indeed, a bit more complicated than the description on the dust jacket.<br /><br />Donovan Moon, freelance journalist, can't resist a fantastic scoop when he is called on by Morningstar to write the vicious killer's story. Morningstar has been a busy vampire slayer, but is he the only one who \\"sees\\" that his victims are vampires? He chooses to slaughter these vamps in the most unsavory of ways, and we learn more about him as he dictates his story to Moon. Shelley Masterton (is this name a coincedence? I think not) is the young woman whose friend is slaughtered during a Morningstar spree, and she finds herself at the center of a mythological, universal, and downright bizarre fight for life and justice.<br /><br />It's quite difficult to pin this novel into one neat category. Atkins crosses genre lines here, but it all works. I was [drawn] into the story almost immediately, and I kept turning those pages until I was finished. The story has tons of gore, wonderful characters, and almost magical writing. This one is definitely worth the read. Pass up the paperback version because the trade hardcover from Stealth Press is beautiful.	2002-08-31
US	51701856	R17TX00425AY17	076450049X	207036386	Excel 97 For Windows For Dummies	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Still holds up...	Yep, this one is outdated just a bit, but I have to admit, I still reach for it when I need to work out those little problems with spreadsheets. This is a very easy to read, humorous, and down-to-earth guide to Excel. I especially love the chapter titled &quot;Top Ten Thousand Keystroke Shortcuts.&quot; The chapter headings and sub-headings are very easy to follow, and the author includes clear screen shots that guide the Excel user through each step. The Dummies line of how-to books are excellent, and this is no exception. It still holds its own even with software upgrades.	2002-08-29
US	51701856	R1RX4W3Y9BJW33	1588513513	202500840	Bloodsworth Island	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Great premise	How many times a day are we bombarded with headlines screaming new breakthroughs or threats in genetic tampering, biological warfare, chemical terrorism, and all those other wonderful anxiety provoking topics? Reardon and Slate take some of these threats, throw in eugenics and cult behavior, and then mix all this up to create Bloodsworth Island.<br /><br />Gene Nolan is a young, idealistic doctor who loses his residency and flounders around until Dr. Marcus Gallagher becomes his mentor, employer, and father figure. Gene joins Dr. Gallagher and his \\"family\\" at the Davenport Center on Bloodsworth Island. Gene thinks he's there to help the family find a cure for horrible diseases, but Dr. Gallagher's plan is to eliminate carriers of disease. Nice work if you can get it, eh? In the meantime, Gene falls in love with Kelly even though this relationship violates the rules of the Center. Gene then proceeds to violate nearly all the principles that guide each member of the family at Davenport Center. All of these elements come together in a race to save the world from Dr. Gallagher's nefarious scheme.<br /><br />I like this premise. It's timely enough to be interesting and scary enough to add a touch of \\"what if?\\" However, the writing style here leaves much to be desired. The characters are underdeveloped to the point of being rather one-dimensional. I didn't have a feeling of suspense or surprise at any point of the story. The writing is flat. I can't write a novel myself, so I rely on others to create great stories and characters for me. Unfortunately, that doesn't happen here. Perhaps with more fiction experience, Slate and Rearden can combine their great ideas with great writing and characters. This is an interesting storyline, and if you can ignore some of the writing flaws, you'll probably enjoy it.	2002-08-29
US	51701856	R115TM0XGB7DXH	0813821134	94563606	Health Writer's Handbook	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent!	Gastel covers all the basics and not-so-basics of health writing. I got this book as an introduction to health writing, but I find that the advice Gastel offers applies to all good writing. She includes a very in-depth chapter about how to find information (research, research, research!). There are also chapters on Preparing the Piece, Exploring Areas and Issues, and Pursuing a Career. All of the chapters are broken down into logical, easy-to-follow sub-headings such as Ethical Issues, Sensitivity and Style, Professional Organizations, Genres of Health Writing, etc.<br /><br />I think the greatest thing about this book is Gastel's writing style. The writing is fluid and concise without being condescending (sorry to say that the same isn't true of many other &quot;how-to&quot; books on writing). Great cartoons illustrate the text but do not overwhelm or distract. This is, quite simply, a great little book that has provided me with so much valuable information. Bravo!	2002-08-29
US	51701856	R3JEZI48YF0XWX	0963339745	713197310	The Girl Next Door	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Prepare to sweat and squirm	Holy tamales! This has to be the most disturbing novel I've ever read--and I couldn't put it down until I finished the last word. Ketchum's story focuses on young Meg and Susan Loughlin who go to live with their Aunt Ruth after the tragic death of their parents. Unfortunately, Ruth Chandler is slipping further and futher into insanity, and she comes up with progressively more horrific and torturous treatment for Meg--all the while enlisting the assistance of her sons and other neighborhood children.<br /><br />The story is told by David, now an adult, who recalls the horrible treatment of Meg throughout that summer in the 50s. He cannot ignore his own participation in the acts, and it is this that plagues him the most.<br /><br />This is not an easy novel to read. I shed many tears trying to get through the passages, but I continued to turn the pages because this is a compelling tale of mob-think, the depths of depravity humans are capable of, survival instinct, and guilt, guilt, guilt. Is this a good novel? I don't think \\"good\\" is an accurate adjective. This is a powerful novel. There are no slimy slugs, aliens, serial killers, or vampires. But this is horror nonetheless, and I think this real-life horror is much more disturbing and frightening than anything I ever read in Dracula. This is destined to be a classic. Just prepare yourself; you will definitely be made uncomfortable by this story (and if not--get thee to a therapist!).<br /><br />The Overlook Connection Press did an awesome job with this edition. It's complete with artwork by Neal McPheeters and an introduction by Stephen King.	2002-08-28
US	51701856	R3G1YPXQFG34UR	1562460641	178139824	Growing Up Black and Proud: A Guide for Teenagers	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wonderful workbook!	I've used this book with several children and pre-teens. It is filled with captivating illustrations and worksheets to use with the child or within a group setting. The book is broken down into numerous sections covering:<br /><br />Identity<br />Stereotyping<br />The impact of Integration<br />Cultural Boundaries<br />African-American Male-Female Relationships<br />Racism and Its Impact<br />What is Chemical Dependence?<br />How Does Someone Become Chemically Dependent?<br />How Chemical Dependence Affects Friends, Family, and You<br />How Chemical Dependence Affects the African-American Community<br />Communicating<br />Dealing With Feelings<br />Dealing With Peer Pressure<br />Making Decisions/Solving Problems/Resolving Conflicts<br /><br />Kids can relate to the no-nonsense writing style, and the topics and worksheets are great for generating constructive conversation. This is possibly the most productive workbook I've found to use with pre-teens, and it's wonderful to find one dealing specifically with African-American children. Bravo!	2002-08-18
US	51701856	RADFIA3F2XVH2	0785305432	877111629	Great American Cookbook	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent	I admit it: I'm a horrible cook. I require easy-to-follow recipes that don't call for obscure ingredients and any sort of yoga-esque contortions to produce a finished product. I bought this cookbook a few years ago, and it's wonderful! It's a hardcover, but the covers are padded; I've spilled things on this cookbook, and all I need to do is wipe it clean. The index in this book is one of the best I've seen. The great thing about these recipes is that they use products that you probably already have on your shelves. The book has several sections covering chicken, casseroles, tuna, barbeques, Mexican, and Oriental. Then comes the good stuff--about 200 pages are devoted to desserts alone! There is also a kids' cooking section. I especially like the section on Children's Party Delights...I can make some of these creations, and my nieces and nephew think I'm a genius! Try the Deluxe Fajita Nachos, the Santa fe Potato Salad, the Korean Beef &amp; Vegetable Salad, or the cute little Chocolate Teddy Bears. Oh, I can go on and on. By the way, don't buy this cookbook for low-fat, low-sugar, healthy recipes. You can convert some of the ingredients yourself, but these recipes don't focus on health--just comfort and good food. Bon appetit!	2002-08-11
US	51701856	R3N3OIUN2M2OXI	0140086838	559196313	Ceremony (Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Breathtaking	Tayo is a half-white, half-Laguna man and former POW of the Japanese during WWII. After spending time in a military hospital in Los Angeles and being treated with &quot;white man medicine,&quot; Tayo returns to his family on the Laguna Pueblo reservation to find himself even more alone and fearing his grip on reality. Tayo prayed away the rain while he was at war, and he returns to his home to find that a drought has nearly decimated the land and the livestock. Betonie is the medicine man who helps Tayo begin his healing. Along the way, we get to meet various characters who all in some way contribute to Tayo's journey.<br /><br />The above is an oversimplification of this novel. There are so many elements at work here: one group's struggle to hold on to its culture; the historical oppression of Native American peoples; a man's search for healing and meaning; the role of tradition; and I could go on and on. Silko weaves in Laguna myths through her own poetry and through actual Laguna stories. She writes in a non-linear fashion so that events don't simply occur one after another; time is much more fluid, and all the events from past and present meld together.<br /><br />It is rare that I read a book that does more than entertain me. This one took my breath away. There was no way I could put this book down until I found out how things turned out for Tayo. And then I read the book again because there are so many moving passages, that it is easy to miss some of the beautiful details of this story. Yes, this can be described as a book about cultural differences and issues. But it is so much more, and Silko does a wonderful job of painting these incredible characters. Her writing is intensely beautiful and lyrical. There aren't a lot of books that bring me to tears, but this one did. I'm very happy to add Ceremony to my book collection, and I can't wait to read more of Silko's works.	2002-08-08
US	51701856	R20KOUE0PT3FN2	0843949783	372932416	Island	Books	4	1	1	N	N	In the jungle, the mighty jungle...	Eighteen-year-old Rupert Conway accepts his girlfriend Connie's invitation to spend some time with her family on a yacht in the Bahamas. This is supposed to be an anniversary gift for her parents, Billie and Andrew. Connie's half-sisters Thelma and Kimberly as well as their husbands, Wesley Duncan Beaverton III and Keith, are also along for the trip. Picnicking and swimming on a deserted island, this little group watches in horror as their yacht goes up in a fiery blast, taking Wesley with it. They soon realize that something much more sinister is happening as each of the men is killed off one by one. Who is on the island with them? What does he want with the women?<br />Rupert tells this story to us through the journal he keeps during this adventure. He fantasizes about having it published once they are all rescued, so he makes sure to include every detail about each day they are on the island.<br />This book is pure Laymon. There are twists and turns, sinister plots, blood and gore, and tons of suspense. Rubert is 18 and trapped on an island with beautiful women, so be prepared for some adolescent observation about sex and breasts (this is Laymon, after all; he is not for the prudish). I started reading this novel late one night and couldn't put it down until I finished it the next day. This is a great read. It's quick, and Rupert's narration is sometimes touching, sometimes amusing, and sometimes downright hair-raising. I dare you to finish this one and not come away with a sense of unease. The final two sentences alone are worth racing through this 500+ page novel. So, slap on the suntan lotion, grab a cold one, and prepare to explore the Island.	2002-08-08
US	51701856	R3NU09EUGXVO4E	0345435036	613586122	Crying Wolf	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Quietly suspensful	Raised by a struggling but supportive single mother, Nat finds himself the hero of his small town when he wins an essay contest that provides a meager scholarship. Nat says goodbye to his high school sweetheart, kisses his mom, and heads off to Inverness, a small college packed with the pampered offspring of the privileged. A chance encounter involving a fish aptly named Lorenzo the Magnificent throws Nat together with Izzie and Grace Zorn who are incredibly wealthy, incredibly beautiful twin sisters. Izzie and Grace are daring and captivating, and they do not suffer from the ordinary worries that plague Nat (like how to meet the next tuition payment without his mom losing her house). The three become close friends, and together they find some secret underground passages which become integral in their scheme to help Nat stay in school.<br /><br />Then along comes Freedy--Friedrich--Knight. Freedy isn't the sharpest tool in the shed, but he considers himself a dashing, irresistable, and super intelligent sort of guy. Unfortunately, one of his more serious blunders nearly gets him shot and forces him to flee back east to hide out with his mom. Of course, Freedy and the trio cross paths, which places all of them in jeopardy.<br /><br />Perhaps it is a bit misleading for this book to be labeled a suspense novel. Sure, there is some suspense, but the beauty of this book lies in the coming-of-age story of Nat. Freedy is an intriguing character, and the twins are funny, saucy, and more complicated than they first appear. Nat's observations of his surroundings are both touching and humorous, and it is interesting to see how this small town poor boy carves his niche in the world of the rich. Combine this all with the annoying Professor Leo Uzig, and the story can stand on its characters alone. Peppered throughout the novel are references to Nietzsche who would most likely get quite a chuckle out of the quest for meaning that each of these characters goes through.<br /><br />Don't pick this one up expecting to lose sleep to figure out \\"who dunnit.\\" This isn't a hair raising thriller. I liked it for the character development. The \\"action\\" of the novel doesn't seem to be the focal point but rather the result of all these characters coming together. I also liked that Abrahams does not go for the Hollywood ending so typical of \\"suspense\\" novels these days. I thought the book was worth the price even though it turned out to be more of a dramatic character study rather than a nail-biting thriller. This is my first book by Abrahams, and it most certainly won't be my last.this one up expecting to lose sleep to figure out \\"who dunnit.\\" This isn't a hair raising thriller. I liked it for the character development. The \\"action\\" of the novel doesn't seem to be the focal point but rather the result of all these characters coming together. I also liked that Abrahams does not go for the Hollywood ending so typical of \\"suspense\\" novels these days. I thought the book was worth the price even though it turned out to be more of a dramatic character study rather than a nail-biting thriller. This is my first book by Abrahams, and it most certainly won't be my last.	2002-08-08
US	51701856	R3V9848MZCTKZC	0451410319	834173133	Hush	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Couldn't put it down!	After 16 years, the city of Chicago is once again rocked by the vicious acts of the Madonna Murderer. This man stalks single mothers and their infant sons, and the city is soon in a panic. In search of some expert assistance, the head of the CPD calls up a former victim turned profiler to help with the investigation. Ivy Dunlap leaves behind her safe, quiet home to return to the city that spawned her worst nightmares. Max Irving is the veteran homicide investigator who resents Ivy's involvement until he understands her past. Can the two of them track down the merciless killer who has evaded capture for so long? How will this madman affect their lives and those of their co-workers?<br /><br />After reading numerous (too many to count) serial killer novels, I really didn't expect this one to be very memorable. Wrong! Frasier lends a breath of fresh air to this somewhat tired genre. Her characters are very life-like, and her research is incredible. She has a great eye for detail, and I was so captured by this story that I had to keep reading the book for each twist and turn. The forensics are interesting, the police procedures are believable, and the situations are creepy enough to hold your interest. The serial killer here is vile, insane, and driven by some very human motivations. This is certainly the most unique novel of its kind that I've read in quite a while. If you're looking for a nail-biter, and you don't mind losing a few hours of sleep, then Hush might be just what you're looking for. Another pretty good suspense thriller is BLINDSIGHTED by Karin Slaughter.	2002-07-29
US	51701856	RD06ZFUQFLOX8	0843950315	129204569	Vampyrrhic	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Don't look in the basement...	Clark once again delivers a heart-pounding horror chiller with Vampyrrhic. I've lost a lot of sleep the past few nights because I just couldn't stop reading. Just when I thought all my favorite characters were safe--BAM! Something reached out of the dark for one of them, and I had to read a few more chapters.<br /><br />Dr. David Leppington returns to the small, sleepy town that bears his family name in order to visit with his beloved Uncle George whom he hasn't seen in a couple of decades. He checks into the town's only hotel, run by the beautiful but bizarre Electra Charnwood, and meets up with Bernice and the sinister strongman Jack Black. Dear crazy-as-a-loon Uncle George tells David that he is heir to the Leppington legacy. David refuses to believe this whacky tale but soon learns that his uncle might be right when he, Electra, Jack, and Bernice find themselves thrown together to fight the bloodthirsty creatures lurking in the tunnels under the town.<br /><br />Ok, so this isn't the most original story on the planet. The vampire tale isn't exactly new and fresh, but Clark manages to pull this one off with superb writing and chapter cliffhangers. His characters are believable, and I had to keep reading to find out what happened to them. Add to that the fact that any pale, hungry creature that thrives in a dank, dark tunnel and thirsts for your blood is going to be scary under any conditions, and this book is a winner. There's enough gore to make it creepy but not so much that it's distracting; enough sex to spice up the night creatures but not so much that it's the sole highlight of the novel; and enough ancient legends borrowing from mythology to make the story a bit unique. I think Clark is well on his way to being a top name in the horror genre. Read this one, and then grab Blood Crazy--you won't be disappointed.	2002-07-24
US	51701856	R3PA034HCWG987	1892284081	662796535	Out There in the Darkness	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fantastic!	Ed Gorman once again demonstrates his master story telling. Aaron, Neil, Bob, and Mike are four middle-aged, white-collar men who like to get together for poker, bawdy jokes, and beer. Each takes his turn on the neighborhood Patrol to help combat the increasing crime in the area. These four pals find themselves up against something truly terrifying when their poker night is interrupted by a break-in.<br /><br />Gorman has a knack for good stories, and he lets Aaron narrate this story with a chilling effect. You'll devour this one quickly to get to the next twist.<br /><br />This is a short chapbook--about 31 pages. It's a great story, and if you're a Gorman fan, you won't mind spending the money on this. However, it's a bit pricey for one story, so keep that in mind!	2002-07-20
US	51701856	R26MNWLBF3BS6O	1930997051	787432483	Holy Rollers	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Ding-dong! Psychos calling!	Have you ever been annoyed by an unwanted knock on the door accompanied by an attempt to bring you the word of god? Well, after reading Holy Rollers, you might think about being much nicer to those door-to-door evangelists. Jack and Mary Morris find out one weekday morning that the road to salvation is more than a bit bumpy when they come face-to-face with two clean cut young men who bring them much more than religious pamphlets.<br /><br />My heart was pounding through this short story. Newman writes about the everyday monsters that we meet on the street; these aren't slobbering beasts lurking in the closet. You'll be cheering for the good guys before the end of this one.<br /><br />This short (29 pages) chapbook was worth the price, in my opinion. I'm glad I had the opportunity to read Newman's story, and I look forward to reading his future work. I hear that DarkTales recently had to close its publishing arm which is a shame because they've put out some incredible books over the years. I hope to see them up and running again soon. Now, go grab this story before your doorbell rings!	2002-07-20
US	51701856	R2ILDQQ7RUHPJN	189228412X	658560807	Night in Fog	Books	4	4	5	N	N	What scares you?	...I mean, what really scares you?<br /><br />Bryan recalls the day before Halloween, 12 years earlier, when his younger brother, Rick, calls him to ask for a meeting. Bryan wants nothing more to do with this brother--the man he hasn't seen in 25 years--but he feels compelled to meet with Rick if only to finally put closure to their relationship. What was it that really made Rick seem to lose his mind as a young boy when he acted out his horrible fantasies? Did Rick only imagine the mysterious Jude Fairclough? Is he a hero or a sick villain? Bryan realizes a bit too late the horrible plans his brother has in mind for their visit.<br /><br />This is truly a creepy little story. Silva leaves you guessing at the end. I enjoyed the flashbacks via Rick's letters to his brother. This is a well-written, hair-raising tale. Keep in mind that this is a short chapbook (32 pages), so weigh the value of one story against the price. You definitely won't regret reading this one, but you might regret paying so much to get it!	2002-07-20
US	51701856	R2MU9DCIM1005M	1892284073	883760436	Spyder	Books	4	1	1	N	N	What happened to the rebel?	The rebel without a cause himself narrates this short tale that explains what really happened to him after that fiery crash in his Spyder. We also get a peek into the secret behind his superstar success. You'll find some vampirism, some raising of the dead, and some witchery.<br /><br />This is a very short chapbook (about 22 pages), so you might want to consider that before shelling out the cash. It is an interesting short story, however, and Partridge gives a great voice to Dean.	2002-07-19
US	51701856	R1IBXNT1WN99LD	0786015039	680292351	The Red Church	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great supernatural thriller!	Ronnie Day walks home after school with his little brother, Tim, and ends up confronting some of his worst fears in the scariest place he can imagine--the red church. Reverend Wendell McFall doomed the red church by using it as the site for his extremist religious practices and then meeting his death at the hands of angry parishoners over a hundred years ago. Now the church is a local legend; something that school children use to scare each other as the home of the creature that lives in the bell tower, a \\"thing that had wings and claws and livers for eyes.\\" A grisly, unexplainable murder outside the church pulls in Sheriff Frank Littlefield as he tries to unravel the mystery of the church and of what happened to his little brother on that same site more than twenty years ago.<br /><br />The people of this small North Carolina town take their religion seriously, and when the charming (but creepy) Archer McFall moves back to renovate the red church for his own congregation, many from the town's oldest families find themselves worshipping at his altar. But what are they really worshipping? It just might turn out that Archer isn't quite what he appears to be.<br /><br />Nicholson creates interesting characters here, and the story itself calls back to the days of creepy campfire stories. The feeling of small town southern life is well written, and the tale is captivating and fast moving. This is Nicholson's first novel, and I hope to read more by him in the future!	2002-07-08
US	51701856	RYV2A5A21WIWJ	0688174574	695846125	Blindsighted: A Novel (Dr. Sara Linton)	Books	4	76	79	N	N	Great late-night reading	I picked up Blindsighted on a whim. The cover blurbs sounded interesting, and I love to read a good, gory, mystery. This one does not disappoint.<br /><br />Karin Slaughter--a wonderful name for a crime/mystery writer--sets her novel in a small town in Georgia. Nothing much happens in Heartsdale, and the local pediatrician, Sara Linton, also works as the coroner. Sara meets her younger sister for lunch at the local diner one afternoon and stumbles upon a grisly scene. The twin sister of a local detective has been viciously attacked, mutilated, and raped. It's not long before another victim surfaces, and Sara works along with her ex-husband who also happens to be the Chief of Police to try to track down this sick killer. All the while, Sara has her own tortured past as well as her strained relationship with her ex-husband to deal with. In this small town where everyone knows everyone else, who could possibly be the twisted rapist murderer?<br /><br />Slaughter seems to have done her research for this novel. The medical information alone is quite interesting, and the dialogue and characters are believable. The plot is a bit easy to figure out early on in the novel, but I think it's probably pretty difficult to write a totally original novel dealing with serial killers in this day and age. Overall, I enjoyed the story. It's well written, and it's a quick read that's perfect for the summer.	2002-07-08
US	51701856	RT3UYOADV49NH	0060976845	82289117	Little Altars Everywhere	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Fun, stunning, sad, hilarious....	Every now and then a book comes along that just grabs you by the emotions and won't let go. I read Divine Secrets first and then rushed out to buy Little Altars, and although the writing style is quite different, each book has amazing strengths of its own.<br /> Little Altars is a short book (the trade paperback is only about 224 pages), but it packs a big punch. Each chapter is told by one of the characters in a reminiscent style. I really liked that the male characters are more fleshed out here. Wells lets us in on the inner workings of Shep, Little Shep, Baylor, and Chaney; this is an aspect that really isn't present in the female-centric Divine Secrets.<br /><br />These stories are fantastic! It's been quite a while since I laughed and sobbed so often while reading the same book. &quot;Cruelty to Animals&quot; had me laughing so hard I couldn't breathe! &quot;Snuggling&quot; and &quot;E-Z Boy War&quot; were two stories that simply made my heart ache. Wells is wonderful at creating characters that stand on ther own; she gives each one a unique voice and then simply allows the story to tell itself. The writing is simple but powerful, and all of these &quot;little&quot; stories combine to create a vivid picture of this Louisiana community. In Little Altars, we really get to see the characters for who they are; this isn't so much one character trying to figure out her mother, her family, and her own place in all of it. This is more of a combination of stories to show that every family has so much more meaning underneath its outward appearance. Be prepared to be shocked by some of the more horrific things you learn about Vivi in this book. And if Willetta's chapter doesn't shake you to the core, then this type of story-telling might not be for you!<br /><br />Little Altars is a bit darker than Divine Secrets, but it is just as enjoyable. It's an emotional roller-coaster, and I'm glad I took the ride!	2002-06-15
US	51701856	R15L8J8SNBB80V	0060928336	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel	Books	5	5	9	N	N	84 thousand reasons to read this book	I'll skip the summarization of the plot since all of the reviews here do a great job of telling you what this book is all about. Let me get straight to the point: this is a wonderfully hilarious, heartbreaking novel with memorable characters, beautiful, witty dialogue, and downright fantastic story telling.<br /><br />I don't normally read this kind of book; I lean more toward thrillers and horror novels. I must admit, I got caught up in all the Ya-Ya frenzy surrounding the release of the film. Out of curiosity, I picked up Divine Secrets and didn't put it down until I devoured each and every word. These characters have such depth, and I found myself longing for an eccentric hat, a Bloody Mary, a cigarette, and a gaggle of close friends! I could almost feel the sultry heat of Louisiana and smell all the wonderful smells of the south: fried catfish, flowers everywhere, smoky barbeque, lake water. Wells manages to use a simple narrative writing style while painting incredibly vivid mind pictures.<br /><br />This is a powerful story about a middle-aged woman trying to come to grips with her all-consuming, ever-present mother. These humanly flawed characters have depth and personality. I truly wanted to know what happened to each one. It's so easy to forget that our mothers had and have lives separate from us, and Siddalee gets the chance of a lifetime: to begin to know her mother as a girl and young woman.<br /><br />I know I'm gushing on and on about this novel, but it really struck a chord with me. I want more of the Ya-Yas! If you think you can get the full feel of the novel by going to see the film, think again. There are so many things that the film omits, and it can never capture the senses the way this book does (although the film isn't bad). If you like good story telling, and if you don't mind a whirlwind of emotions when you read, then grab this one right now.	2002-06-15
US	51701856	R6SHVDCDNMGEX	0786013575	240806563	Fear	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Frightfully good!	I read Kelly's Blood Kin and figured I needed to give this author another try. Blood Kin was a fun read, and Kelly seems to be able to deliver a good story. Fear was even better than Kin, and I'm so glad I picked it up.<br /><br />Jeb is a normal ten-year-old growing up in Pikesville, Tennessee in the late 40s. He lives with his ailing grandmother and his father, Sam, who came back from fighting the Nazis with his \\"brains adled.\\" Jeb has a lot on his mind when his small town finds itself at the mercy of a menacing creature that starts out killing livestock and then moves on to some tastier treats. When no one believes him about the creature, Jeb sets out with his father, his bluetick hound named Buckshot, and a traveling bluesman, Roscoe Ledbetter, to find the Granny Woman in Fear County. Jeb is hoping that she has some special magic that will help him, his family, and his town. Kelly then takes the reader on an adventure with these heroes, and he introduces a series of creepy events and bizarre characters. Will Jeb find the magic he needs to help his father and his grandmother? Will he win the heart of the rich girl he loves? What will happen to this group of adventurers?<br /><br />Jeb is a wonderfully drawn character. I enjoyed reading about his journey and was eager to find out how things would turn out for him. Kelly is a great storyteller, and I could almost hear him telling this story around a campfire. Fear is a well written, enjoyable book, and I am now a confirmed Kelly fan.	2002-06-02
US	51701856	R976M51D4PQPT	0671582348	85988614	Bag Of Bones	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Touching, chilling, romantic ghost story	Can I think of any more positive adjectives to describe this novel? I loved this story when I first read it, and I'm even more in love with it now that I've listened to it. This is Stephen King storytelling at his finest.<br /><br />King delivers a wonderful hero in Mike Noonan, a popular writer who finds himself with a painful case of writer's block after the sudden death of his wife. Hoping to revive his writing and to heal his broken heart, Mike moves into the summer home that he and his wife purchased together: Sara Laughs. Once there, Mike's life gets more and more bizarre and tangled up in the fate of Mattie Devore and her daughter, Kyra (who has a strong connection with Mike and the events happening around them). Mike finds himself falling in love with the much younger Mattie and identifies Kyra with the daughter he might have had if his wife had lived. It takes Mike a while to figure out that there are forces at work in his small town and in his summer home that are determined to see an old vendetta played out to the end. Mike must protect Kyra as well as his own sense of self. Through his eyes we learn about the horrible events that took place nearly a century ago and that basically cursed the descendents of those responsible.<br /><br />This is one of the most beautifully written novels of any genre that I've ever read. King is at the top of his storytelling prowess with this one. I thought that reading this was a treat, but listening to the audio tapes turned out to be even better. King narrates this with a simplicity that is touching and believable. He becomes Mike Noonan in this narration. I had to pull my car to the side of the road to get through some of the heart-wrenching descriptions of Mike's feelings for Mattie. There are also plenty of chills, and the ghost story is great horror. This novel has a bit of everything for every reader.<br /><br />I also liked the music used throughout this audiobook. This brings Sara to life and adds such a haunting feel to the story. Keep listening at the end of this audiobook. There is an interview with King, and he gives some background about the writing process itself as well as what motivates him to record his own stories. These tapes are well worth the money. Are you listening yet?e story. Keep listening at the end of this audiobook. There is an interview with King, and he gives some background about the writing process itself as well as what motivates him to record his own stories. These tapes are well worth the money. Are you listening yet?	2002-05-31
US	51701856	RR1STTZ2GGE87	0671582356	692650386	Hearts In Atlantis (All You Want to Know)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Need more stars for this one!	I won't go into any more detail about the novel's plot here. The above synopsis does that quite well as do many of the reviews posted here. I will say, however, that this audiobook is one of the best I've ever heard.<br /><br />I read HIA when it first came out and fell in love with the story. Bobby Garfield and Ted Brautigan are two of my favorite King characters. Not having the time to re-read this great novel, I decided to compromise and picked up the audio version. Wonderful! I enjoyed King's narration because he sort of seems like an old friend now. But Hurt's narration is award-winning. He adds such wonderful vocal elements to the characters depending on the situation. I was totally mesmerized by his rendition of these words. I'm so happy that I took a chance on these tapes, and this experience leaves me wanting more of these audiobooks.<br /><br />Although the novel brings in elements from King's Dark Tower series, you don't have to be familiar with those stories to follow HIA. This is a stand-alone novel that pieces together four different stories told over time. I think anyone who likes good story-telling with imaginative prose and well-developed characters will appreciate this book. &quot;Heavenly shades of night are falling, it's twilight time...&quot;	2002-05-31
US	51701856	R37TA74ESSU75H	0786014776	790921730	Bad Things	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Not too shabby...	I've read a couple of Thorne's books, and I must say that I wasn't too impressed (I really didn't care for Haunted). Well, thank goodness! I enjoyed Bad Things. Thorne takes some ancient legends, mixes in some common childhood fears, and throws in one heck of a creepy sibling to come up with a fun, enjoyable read.<br /><br />Rick Piper and his twin brother, Robin, were born in Santo Verde, California. They grow up on on the family's estate with sprawling, lush grounds. There's a good reason for why the landscaping looks so darn good--the greenjacks. These are small creatures that only a few people with \\"the sight\\" can see. Normally mischievous and disconcerting (but unable to touch anyone), the greenjacks grow to full power on Halloween and pull together to create a terrifying creature that can maim and kill. Rick is a timid, scared child who sees the greenjacks and witnesses the horrifying events that come to pass one Halloween. His twin is never the same after that. Rick grows up to escape the town, but he returns in order to give his own children a calmer life in the country. Things turn wicked at that point as Rick not only confronts the psychological demons from his childhood, but also the real demons that are determined to destroy him and his family.<br /><br />Thorne introduces some great characters in this novel. Aunt Jade is a disturbed and disturbing individual with appetites that dare not be mentioned! The stuffed poodles in a variety of lifelike poses are hilarious. Dakota is wickedly funny. Robin...well, let's just say that I kept hearing thumps and bumps in the walls while I was reading this novel. \\"Icky Ricky\\" is a sympathetic, reluctant hero who finally discovers his own strengths.<br /><br />Thorne's dialogue is often stilted--real people don't talk like this! I also think that the book drags a bit with some unnecessary detail. But the story itself is compelling, and I found that I wanted to keep reading to find out what happened next to these characters. This is almost like a chilling campfire story. Yes, suspend disbelief for this one, but isn't that what makes horror so much fun? I almost didn't give this book a chance, but I'm glad I did.is almost like a chilling campfire story. Yes, suspend disbelief for this one, but isn't that what makes horror so much fun? I almost didn't give this book a chance, but I'm glad I did.	2002-05-30
US	51701856	R1XNZNJ1SZJFNH	0886779553	9322718	Red Moon Rising: A Vampire Novel	Books	2	1	2	N	Y	Valiant effort with low pay-off	Dell Cambian is a teenager with normal, adolescent concerns--boys, grades, the future--when she is struck by the same disease that affects most of her family. Suddenly she is a vampire trying to deal with the powers and needs of a vampire while also yearning for the love of her life, the mortal Ryan. Mentor is the ancient vampire whose role is to help guide young vampires through their change--a change that will determine if Dell becomes part of the Predator, Craven, or Normal clan.<br /><br />Charles Upton is a filthy rich, eccentric old man who is dying. He is also convinced that vampires exist and will spare no expense in order to catch a vampire who will give him immortal life. Dell becomes caught up in this scheme, and she must act quickly to save herself and the boy she loves.<br /><br />The idea that vampirism is a genetic disease is interesting. I also liked Mosiman's descriptions of the different types of vampires. However, overall this novel fell flat for me. The dialogue is strained, and the plot seems to be set up solely to establish a base for the sequel. There are many small stories within the larger tale, and most of them are not developed enough from start to finish; too many plot threads compete for space in this novel.<br /><br />This novel just didn't work for me. I wanted more of the vampires, but that was never really delivered. Like I said before, I like the premise of this novel, and I think Mosiman takes a creative look at the vampire myth. Yet, she doesn't quite flesh out the main storyline, and I was left hanging at the rushed ending.	2002-05-26
US	51701856	R7MMBFXD6F1TB	078601413X	637527366	Blood Kin (Pinnacle horror)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Down home vamps	I cracked a big grin in the first few pages of this novel. I grew up at the base of the Smokies, and I have very fond memories of \\"home.\\" Kelly sets his vamp novel up in these mountains and populates it with some interesting, quirky, heroic, and creepy characters. I could almost hear these characters through the dialogue. These are mean, ruthless vamps; not the wimpy, whiny ones that seem to abound in today's vampire stories.<br /><br />Nearly 100 years ago, local preacher Josiah Craven was up to no good. He was already a cad in real life, but then he stumbled upon a creature who seduced and bit him, and his sinning really began. His family knew it, but it wasn't so easy to convince the locals who adored Craven. When he \\"accidentally\\" dies, his wife and children insist on burying him with the broken stalk of a bean pole imbedded in his chest. They think they've put to rest the evil creature Josiah had become. Now, Grandpappy Craven is unearthed by his great-grandson and sets out to wreak the havoc denied to him a century ago.<br /><br />There's a slew of great characters in this novel. Boyd Andrews becomes the reluctant hero of the tale. He's been busy trying to kick his drinking habit so he can win back his wife and kids. Dud Craven is the not-so-bright grandson who becomes Grandpappy's lackey. Wendell Craven is the stern preacher who encounters Grandpappy and then begins to create a congregation of a different kind. His wife, Tammy, is the mousy, bookish woman who discovers some hidden strengths in some very scary moments. Caleb Vanleer is the rugged mountain man who has spent the last couple of decades trying to remember some very scary moments in a remote cave of Vietnam. Put 'em all together, and you get a really fun story that makes up for in excitement what it might lack in depth.<br /><br />This isn't meant to be a thought-provoking moral tale. But it is fun, and I read the book quickly because I wanted to find out what happened next. I eagerly await the chance to read FEAR, another Kelly novel that is in my to-be-read pile. If you like vampires, and if you want something fun and quick to read, pick up BLOOD KIN. Then sit back, smell the mountain air, and let the carnage begin!ead FEAR, another Kelly novel that is in my to-be-read pile. If you like vampires, and if you want something fun and quick to read, pick up BLOOD KIN. Then sit back, smell the mountain air, and let the carnage begin!	2002-05-25
US	51701856	R3L23R8355MFGA	0786015004	31468867	The Fixer	Books	4	6	8	N	N	I'm already looking for the sequel!	You might be asking yourself, \\"Why should I spend my hard-earned cash on a book by a brand new author?\\" If so, stop! Buy this book now! Merz has created great characters with a few interesting twists on traditional vampire mythology. I think THE FIXER is just the beginning of a captivating series.<br /><br />Lawson lives in a world where vampires are not only real, they have co-existed with humans on this planet since the beginning of mankind. Lawson himself is a vampire and is sworn to maintain the secrecy of this society. He's also a Fixer which means he is dedicated to putting to right whatever might threaten to expose the existence of vampires. Lawson is trained in the fine arts of fighting and killing. He also has a soft spot for his cats and for beautiful women--hey, it's noir, it HAS to have beautiful dames! He narrates this tale in what I like to think of as \\"intellectual gumshoe\\" which is a bit of Bogie with a bit of Charlie Chan.<br /><br />In THE FIXER, Lawson finds himself pitted against his oldest enemy, Cosgrove. The two of them have tangled before, with nasty results for Lawson and for the humans around them. Cosgrove has plans to take over as leader of the vampires; plans that will upset the delicate balance between human and vampire. Along the way, Lawson teams up with the beautiful and deadly Talya who gets under his skin like no human has done before and who has her own reasons for wanting Cosgrove destroyed. We also meet Zero, Lawson's friend and mentor, Wirek, a mysterious, drunken Elder vampire, and a slew of other quirky and creepy characters.<br /><br />I really enjoyed this novel, and I look forward to reading about Lawson in future installments of this series. THE FIXER offers some ... action, a bit of romance, sinister plots and sub-plots, and intriguing characters. It's a well-written, dark, humorous, and downright fun story. If you like vampire novels, detective stories, supernatural tales, or action-packed thrillers, you'll love THE FIXER. Merz definitely delivers with this one.finitely delivers with this one.	2002-05-06
US	51701856	R35PTDOO7KB7L3	0786012846	865824732	The Night Caller	Books	3	17	18	N	N	How many serial killers are out there?	I must admit that I'm a sucker for a serial killer thriller. No matter how many of them I read, I still find myself reaching for more. (I'm not sure what that says about my own psyche.)<br /><br />Lutz introduces us to Ezekial \\"Coop\\" Cooper, a former NYPD detective who is now trying to figure out his life after a divorce, cancer survival, and retirement. Unfortunately, Coop finds his adult daugter dead on display in the family's beach bungalow. He puts on his detective shoes again and sets out to solve this murder despite warnings from the cops and from his friend, Arthur Billard--full-time cop, part-time restauranteur. From there, he hooks up with Deni Green, a most unpleasant writer of cat mysteries (I kept hoping for something bad to happen to Deni). He also finds new love with a younger woman, and the whole darn bunch ends up peeking around corners trying to lure out a serial killer.<br /><br />For the genre, this is a pretty decent book. Coop is a well-drawn character, and the serial killer is rather creative in his craft. However, don't expect anything vastly unique about this novel. The serial killer, once named, is nothing new, and you'll probably be able to figure out the mystery well before the end. Like I said above, Deni Green is one of the most unpleasant characters I've ever read; she definitely had me rooting for the killer! However, this is a pretty good vacation book because it's a quick read that will hold your interest. It kept me busy for a boring train ride while I was on vacation, and that's enough for me to give it 3 stars. Happy reading!	2002-04-19
US	51701856	RACAYEPBBMT9U	0843948507	749306061	The Traveling Vampire Show	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	To be sixteen again...	The summer I was sixteen, the Traveling Vampire Show came to town.<br /><br />From there, Dwight tells us an amazing, frightening, and sometimes touching tale about the night he and his friends went to see the vampire, Valeria. Dwight, Rusty, and Slim (the girl in this tight group of friends) have been friends a long time. Growing up in the small town of Grandville, the three of them have battled the same bullies, walked the same roads, swam in the same lakes, and talked about what they'll do when they get out of that little town. And then one day in August they all find out about the Traveling Vampire Show. Who wouldn't be intrigued by that, especially when there's nothing else happening during those hot, humid days before school starts? The three friends set out to find a way to sneak in to the show (they're underage), and with some help from Dwight's beautiful sister-in-law, Lee, they manage to get tickets.<br /><br />This is only a small part of the story though. Laymon creates such a beautiful tale of adolescence through Dwight's eyes. All the events leading up to the vampire show are worthy of a novel in and of themselves. This is a sensitive, funny, sad, and chilling tale--it brings back memories of lazy summer days, and it also reminds us that there were so many things that took on great importance and passion when we were kids. Of course, let's not forget the incredibly evil characters and downright terrifying situations that Laymon has a knack for creating. Stryker (don't you love it when authors pay homage to each other?) is wonderful as is Valeria. And I don't think I'll ever get the images of the death-cage match (just read it, and you'll understand) out of my head. I was riveted to this story especially in the last 50 pages or so.<br /><br />I must say that I loved almost everything about this book. The cover of the paperback is fantastic, the characters are endearing, and the story is unforgettable. I could not put this down until I finished it. Laymon was a master story-teller, and I, for one, am quite grateful that he left us this one before he died. Now, stop reading this review and go get the book. You won't regret it!er story-teller, and I, for one, am quite grateful that he left us this one before he died. Now, stop reading this review and go get the book. You won't regret it!	2002-03-27
US	51701856	R1OOYJ4K9AW3XG	0843947888	404564239	Among the Missing	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Laymon is always a fun read	A rich, married woman in a see-through nightie takes her Jag out for a midnight spin and picks up her nameless lover on a dark, back road. The same woman is found the next day--without her head--and thus begins the mystery of Among the Missing. Rusty Hodges, the sheriff, takes on the headache of unraveling the mystery of this woman's death, and it seems as if no one goes unimplicated in this tale.<br /><br />The story has a lot of twists and turns, and it highlights some of Laymon's trademarks: wry humor, gore, people getting it on, surprises, people talking about getting it on, violence, people thinking about getting it on, quirky characters (wait till you meet Merton), and then, to be on the safe side, just a bit more sex. It's great! This is a quick read, and you can probably finish the entire thing in a few hours, which is good because you probably won't want to put it down anyway.<br /><br />Label this novel anything you want--mystery, suspense, thriller, horror--but do not doubt that it is one heck of a fine read. This may not be Laymon's greatest novel, but I've found that even Laymon on a mediocre day is still better than a lot of the stuff on the \\"best seller\\" lists. The horror genre lost a true master when Laymon died; it's wonderful that he left us so many novels. After this one, pick up THE TRAVELING VAMPIRE SHOW. You definitely won't be disappointed by it.	2002-03-27
US	51701856	R2HD6G9DRCSF9X	0822437724	262020144	Caller	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Great short story	This is an excellent short story written in perfect Laymon-style. It's creepy, it's suspenseful, it has everyday things that don't act the way they should. This is a great little story for any horror fan. (Those of us who remember &quot;Have you checked the children?&quot; are especially creeped out by this one!). It has elements that are quickly becoming extinct in today's world of wireless phones.<br /><br />But...this is a tiny chapbook. It only has this one story, and the price might not be worth it to the casual reader. If you're a Laymon collector, you'll probably want this (it looks like the size of an informational brochure). If you're not, you probably don't want to spend this much money on one story.	2002-03-26
US	51701856	R2PGXIA4311V6M	0451458117	425528741	When the Cold Wind Blows (Black Oak 5)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Grant is a master at dark fantasy/horror	I love these characters! Grant continues to show his strengths in narrative and character development. This Black Oak series is dark, spooky, and captivating with characters that are complex, kooky, and unforgettable.<br /><br />Ethan Proctor is on another case in this latest Black Oak installment. His late father's friend, Garber Kranz, leaves him a cryptic message hinting at a wolfman and at the sighting of a friend of the missing Celeste Blaine. Proctor can't possibly pass this up, and he and Taz hop a plane to track this mystery down in northern Georgia. The story has sinister, suspicious locals, a swamp, strange creatures, and intrigue galore. There are also more hints about the mysterious group that is out to destroy Proctor.<br /><br />If you've been following this series, you must read this one. If you haven't, what are you waiting for? Pick up the first, Genesis, and start reading. Although each novel can stand on its own, you'll get a much better appreciation for the characters and the complex plot running behind each of the installments if you read the entire series. These books are all short (about 250 pages at most), and they are easy, quick reads. Grant is a master storyteller, and his writing style flows smoothly. He has a knack for weaving sinister events in the most mundane settings. Take nothing for granted in his novels! I can't wait to read the next installment in the series (what will Taz find out, anyway?). The Millenium Quartet is also another set of Grant's books that is well worth the read.	2002-03-24
US	51701856	R2HCEEPDFPZEBF	0843947810	114711315	Santa Steps Out	Books	3	4	6	N	Y	Original premise, great writing, but....	Where do I even begin with a review of this novel??? First of all, let me start with the praise. Devereaux has a wildly hysterical yet deviously intelligent way with words. The writing here is wonderful. He also presents some incredibly original ideas combining ancient mythology with more modern icons. I can guarantee that you'll never see a picture of jolly old Saint Nick in the same light again after reading this tale. And, oy! Don't get me started about the Tooth Fairy!<br /><br />So, why doesn't this work for me? I like the premise and I adore the writing. The characters are unforgettable. I think Devereaux presents one of the most creative novels of any genre that I've read in a long time--I like it even more because of its horrific elements (creepy characters, surreal scenes, eye-squinching violence). Yet, the truth is that I got bored with this story quite early. I forced myself to finish it because I wanted to like it; I was determined to find something about it that would make me love it. Alas, I never got to that point. The sex scenes (which I can't bring myself to call \\"erotica\\") between all the beloved icons of childhood grew tiresome quite quickly. It still amazes me that I can like so many things about this novel--writing, creativity, characters--and still have a ho-hum attitude about the novel overall.<br /><br />Yet, let me qualify all of this by saying that this novel didn't stop me from picking up Devereaux's CALIBAN AND OTHER TALES; if the quality of his writing is consistent, I'm sure this one will be worthwhile.<br /><br />After all this time, you've probably read enough about SANTA to pique your curiosity. That's what happened to me. Go ahead; read it. I tend to find that people either love or hate this novel; there isn't a lot of middle ground. Devereaux himself might actually appreciate that; my guess is that he is having quite a chuckle at all the hoopla over this particular work. I have to admit, I get a wry grin now when I see those Easter baskets lined up in stores.ined up in stores.	2002-03-24
US	51701856	R2YWH1V4BG1RKI	055356532X	430729660	Mortal Memory	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Intense	In Mortal Memory, Thomas Cook focuses on Steven Farris, a 40-something suburbanite who lives with the knowledge that his father murdered his mother and two siblings. Now an adult with his own family, Steven seems to live the perfect life until Rebecca enters. She has set out to write a novel about men who murder their families, and she wants to find out what Steven remembers about his own family. This causes Steven--who narrates this first-person tale--to dig far deeper into the psyche of his dead family; it turns out that he remembers much more than he thought. In the act of remembering, will Steven learn that the sins of the father revisit the son?<br /><br />But what pushed his seemingly mild-mannered, gentle father into such a barbaric act?<br /><br />Cook writes with a dreamlike quality; at times, I felt like I was wading through a dream, knowing in some ways how it would turn out but unable to wake up. His words are haunting, and this is a disturbing look into the secret world of a \\"normal\\" family. I thought I had the story all figured out, but I was truly surprised by a couple of twists along the way. I was unable to pull away from this novel and even dragged it along on vacation with me in order to finish it. This is worthy of valuable reading time. Don't expect a cleanly wrapped up ending; Cook's story here is a bit too complex for that. However, the writing is excellent, the story is compelling, and the characters get under the skin. Read this one!	2002-03-24
US	51701856	R20DC56TSS2205	0743418921	368820126	Spike and Dru: Pretty Maids All in a Row (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Bloody fantastic!	In my opinion, this is the best Buffy book I've read so far. Spike and Dru are deliciously evil, there is a high body count, and the action is riveting.<br /><br /> Dru's vampire birthday is approaching, and she has specifically asked for an ancient bauble that will give her special powers. Spike is determined to please his baby, and the two begin a quest that involves tracking down all the Slayers-in-waiting. Slayer, Watchers, Operatives, the Council---none are safe as Spike and Dru cut a bloody path toward their ultimate goal. The current Slayer, Sophie, is a dark, powerful and determined young woman who nonetheless finds herself facing insurmountable odds. Throw in an ancient demon who has a hankering for world domination, and you have a potent combination for a thrilling read.<br /><br /> This is a very dark rendering of part of the Slayer history. Spike is wonderful in this book, and for those of us hoping he loses that chip in his head, this tale takes us back to the evil, sarcastic and irresistible Spike we know and love! Dru is her mad but cunning self alternately seducing and slicing anyone who crosses her path. I couldn't put this book down and found myself sneaking in chapters to find out what happens next. This isn't the usual young adult, happy ending Buffy tale. This one is dark, dark, dark, and it has all the twists and turns of any great story. If you are at all a Buffy fan, pick this one up! If you aren't familiar with the storyline, don't worry. This is one book that easily stands alone, and you don't need to know Slayer history to enjoy it.	2001-07-05
US	51701856	R3REM9PKJBRH9S	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	*APPLAUSE!*	I am not an avid reader of fantasy. However, this series of books has been recommended to me so many times that I finally had to give it a try. Minus the appendix, this paperback is about 806 pages long. I was absolutely riveted throughout every single page! I devoured this story and quickly ordered A CLASH OF KINGS in order to find out what happens to all of these fascinating characters.<br /><br /> Martin has created a storyline that is bold, heart-wrenching and breathtaking. His words weave vivid mind pictures, and reading this book is almost like watching a movie---I felt that I could actually see the scenes taking place throughout the novel. Eddard, Arya, Jon, Daenerys, Viserys, Khal Drogo, Bran, Old Nan, Sansa, Tyrion, Catelyn, Jaime, Cersei---and I could go on! All these characters are fascinating. The story focuses on political deceit, murder, quests for power, magical spells, ancient warnings, intrigue. There are sword fights, plunderings, all-knowing wolves, and cold, dead things that walk in the night. I can't wait to sink my teeth into the next installment of this series. How will Jon fare on the Wall? What happens to Arya? Will Sansa be wed to Prince Joffrey or will she find the strength to fight against his black heart? What will happen to Robb? I need to know!<br /><br />I can't say enough good things about this novel. If Martin can maintain this type of storytelling, then he has one more loyal fan to add to his list. This is definitely a must for fantasy fans. Actually...this is a great novel for anyone who loves to read a good story.	2001-07-05
US	51701856	R1OFLS70O8A43M	0812570715	137848091	Cleopatra's Needle	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Melting pot of ideas...	I think perhaps that my expectations were too high for this novel. The book summary hooked me because it sounds so interesting: Mossad agents, Egyptian mythology, modern-day technology, and a power-hungry terrorist seeking an ancient relic that threatens to destroy the world as we know it. I was even interested in the story for the first 75 pages or so. And then it was downhill from there.<br /><br /> Siebert has some great ideas for this novel. However, there are, in my opinion, too many ideas because none of them seems to be fleshed out for a sufficiently tight story. The continent and time jumping are distracting, and it is difficult to keep up with each character any of which could support a book on his/her own. There is a section devoted to characters in ancient Egypt--it is fascinating (even with modern vernacular) and provides information to tie all the characters together. I think this would have been a better way to begin the novel because it seems too out of place shoved into the middle of this lengthy story. The writing itself is not bad, but the book would benefit greatly from more observant editing! There are many distracting typos and repeated bits of text that kept throwing me off of the storyline. A cat that opens a window nearly caused me to give up on this story, and the murderous Ba was diminished by its annoying modern-day taunts.<br /><br /> I give this 2 stars because, as I said, I like the basic ideas presented in the story. I think Siebert has the potential to create a fascinating story. I'm sorry to say that this one didn't do it for me. I let myself be swept up in &quot;The Mummy&quot; craze, but I'll be a bit more discerning when choosing my next Egyptian tale.	2001-05-27
US	51701856	R17V4IEG0E8ZFI	084394658X	753181731	The 37th Mandala	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Very unique	Laidlaw has created one of the more unique horror novels I have ever read. I must admit that I had some difficulty getting through the first 50 pages or so of this novel, but after that, I simply could not stop reading this story.<br /><br /> Derek Crowe is a hack writer of new age/occult self-help books. His only concern is how to write &quot;the&quot; novel that will make him rich and famous. His disdain for his readers as well as his rather stunted personal life, however, combine to leave him feeling empty. While on the obligatory speaking engagement, Crowe meets the very young Michael and Lenore Renzler. What none of them realizes is that Derek's latest novel is a deceptively benevolent presentation of some serious evil. As it turns out, Derek has knowingly altered these ancient texts of the mandalas, thus allowing a powerful, horrible force into the world. Derek, Michael and Lenore are all drawn into a spiraling life-threatening chase to fight or join the mandalas.<br /><br />Laidlaw's writing is superb. Even though it took me a few pages to finally get into the story, this is a novel that certainly reached out and clawed its way into my imagination. The subject is rather unique, and this is a breath of fresh air for the horror genre. Laidlaw creates interesting, believable characters, and the mandalas are some of the creepiest things I've read about in a long time! This is definitely a novel well worth your time. It's intelligent, captivating and terrifying--what more do you want in a novel?	2001-04-05
US	51701856	R2C59N8R1XIJIR	0812521064	879753911	Night Show	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Who doesn't love Laymon?	Dani Larson is the queen of movie special effects (so says the back cover). Dani is a typical young American woman--she wants to be successful, she wants to find love and romance, and she wants a nice, peaceful life. Two out of three ain't bad. Dani thinks she has everything she could ever want, but then she meets up with her stalker, a young, naive and not incredibly bright man who wants to pay homage to his idol so that he too can break into the FX business. But it wouldn't be Laymon if the novel stopped there. Laymon throws in a side story of a terrorized young woman and how she goes about seeking revenge. How all of these people meet is true, classic Laymon.<br /><br /> This is a quick, easy-to-read splatter novel. Laymon doesn't pull any punches when he writes his horror, and this is only one of the many things I've always loved about his writing. NIGHT SHOW reads like a creepy, cheesy horror film--damsels in distress, things lurking in the shadows, blood and guts. If you want intricate, challenging material, this isn't it! Laymon is one of the great masters of shock horror, and this particular novel is a fast, gritty, gory little read. Is it his best? Not even close. But a Laymon novel is always a fun, gut-wrenching ride. If you can find Night Show, and you can tolerate schlock, you might just like this one.<br />Richard Laymon, you are greatly missed.	2001-04-05
US	51701856	R2JK46AEJJ21QE	0316666009	30029813	1st to Die (Women's Murder Club)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	What is the worst thing anyone has ever done?	Do I think this is Patterson's best effort? No. Do I think this is the best book of the year? No. Did I enjoy reading this novel? Absolutely! This is a fast page-turner with plenty of Patterson's twists and turns as well as his short chapters from different points of view.<br /><br /> Lindsay Boxer is a tough-as-nails homicide inspector in San Francisco. Her eyes are set on the next promotion when the city is suddenly rocked by the gruesome murders of a young newly married couple on their wedding night. Struggling with some devastating personal news, Lindsay is determined to put all her effort into finding the maniac who slaughters honeymooners. Along the way she teams up with her handsome new partner, Chris, and she forms a bond of friendship with Claire, Jill and Cindy. The four women join forces in the Women's Murder Club to try to find the murderer before he strikes again. The murders are grisly, and this is a killer who takes perverse pleasure in leaving his victims in sexually degrading positions.<br /><br /> Patterson once again creates an insanely crafty villain, and the novel has a couple of Patterson-esque twists. This is a very fast-paced read perfect for a lazy weekend or a rainy night. I'm curious to see how Patterson will develop these characters in future installments of the Women's Murder Club series. This is an enjoyable read. Check it out--you won't be disappointed.	2001-03-28
US	51701856	RBM6S2UQMJFNX	0843948256	677650953	Blood Crazy	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Bloody fun, chilling read	I started this book yesterday and finished it this morning. I couldn't put it down. Why? The good parts were good enough to pull me through the slow parts.<br /> If you've read the above book description, you know that Clark has created a world in which anyone over the age of 19 suddenly and with no apparant reason is compelled to kill anyone under the age of 19. Make no mistake, this is a gritty, gory story narrated by the 17-year-old protagonist, Nick Aten (&quot;yeah, yeah, it rhymes with Satan&quot;). Nick is content to live a life of partying with no higher ambition; then he drags himself home one beautiful Sunday morning to find his brother's hideously mangled corpse. His parents are gone, and all the adults in town have gone crazy. The attacks on children and teens are vicious, the adults are without mercy. However, what unravels is a sort of apocalyptic coming-of-age story in which Nick finds himself playing a more important role than he could ever have imagined. He sets out trying to find help and stumbles upon group after group of youthful survivors. Along the way he also meets up with someone who puts him in touch with the root cause of the madness of the adults. Can Nick and the others battle through wave after wave of adult attacks to create a new society?<br /> This is an entertaining book. Yes, the writing could be a bit better, but I actually found myself chuckling along with Clark's descriptions. Keep in mind that the narrator is a 17-year-old boy....this is a testosterone-filled story straight from an adolescent who watches too many action movies. Reading this, you might think I didn't like the book. Far from it. Nick is ultimately sweet and good-hearted, and even if the kids talk far more calmly and maturely than in my own experience, the characters are interesting and likeable. I give this novel 4 stars because it is entertaining; I was riveted to my seat racing through the pages to get to the outcome of the horrific attacks. Clark takes far too many pages (in my opinion) to explain the cause of the insanity, but as I wrote above, the good parts sustained the slow parts. I read for entertainment, and sometimes a bit of mind candy such as BLOOD CRAZY is just what the doctor ordered.any pages (in my opinion) to explain the cause of the insanity, but as I wrote above, the good parts sustained the slow parts. I read for entertainment, and sometimes a bit of mind candy such as BLOOD CRAZY is just what the doctor ordered.	2001-03-27
US	51701856	REBPPGOZTWANG	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Happily jumping on the bandwagon...	Reading this book brought back so many happy memories of getting lost in a wonderful fantasy tale as a child. Harry is a nice, unassuming boy being raised by his unimaginative and mean aunt, uncle and cousin. He is treated as a burden, forced to live in the darkened cupboard under the stairs (complete with spiders), and forever living in the shadow of his piggish, spiteful cousin. Then one day an owl delivers a letter to Harry that leads him to a grand adventure as well as allowing him to discover more about his background and true parents.<br /> Obviously I can't say any more about the storyline than the nearly 4,000 people have already written here. Let me just say that I found this book to be delightful! It's a captivating story for children, and the wit and warmth make it equally appealing to adults. I finally understand the reason for all the fanfare surrounding these Potter books. I am happily moving on to the 2nd book in the series, and I've recommended this book to numerous friends, acquaintances and strangers on the street...ok, I exaggerate, but the book really is that good! If you've avoided this series because you either think it's only for kids or because you don't like anything that has this much public attention, stop depriving yourself!	2001-01-10
US	51701856	R3E2ZAFSX6KR4L	0684871262	791325639	Speaking in Tongues : A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Quick, satisfying thriller	This is a great weekend novel. In fact, I was so wrapped up in the story, that I finished it off in a day. True, other reviews here point out that this isn't BONE COLLECTOR or some of the other magnificent Deaver thrillers. However, I thought this was an interesting and fun suspense novel with a delightfully dark villain.<br /><br /> Tate Collier finds himself facing middle-age with a puzzling ex-wife, an estranged teen daughter and a string of bimbo lovers. Once one of the most respected and feared trial lawyers in the country, Tate has settled into a life of farming and small-town law. Then his daughter, Megan, disappears. Tate and Bett join forces to track her down, and both find themselves facing ghosts from the past. Aaron Matthews is the devious, ruthless and completely insane psychoanalyst who sets off a series of events that threatens to destroy Tate's family, his reputation and his very life. The Colliers face buried family secrets as Matthews himself slashes and manipulates his way to his own revenge.<br /><br /> Yes, you have to suspend disbelief through parts of this novel. Yes, the bad guy does take on almost supernatural abilities. But I was still able to lose myself in this story, and I really enjoyed the twists and turns. Is it Deaver's best novel? I don't think so. It is still a great deal of fun, and Deaver's superb writing style and ability to create suspense shine through. All Deaver fans have to read this one. If you're new to Deaver, keep in mind that he has some incredible novels; read this one and move on to the rest.	2001-01-09
US	51701856	R2AJB6KXO6Z7UG	0345423399	497739972	A Kiss of Shadows (Meredith Gentry, Book 1)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Eat your heart out, Tinkerbell!	Hamilton has done it once again. KISS OF SHADOWS starts what I hope will be a long series following the adventures of Princess Meredith (Merry) NicEssus. Merry fled the court of Faerie years ago in fear for her life. Half mortal/human and half fey, Merry finds that she doesn't fully fit in with either side. Merry makes a life for herself in L.A. and hides her sidhe looks by using glamour. She cannot reveal her true self to anyone for fear that her Aunt Andais, Queen of the Air and Darkness, will find her and kill her.<br /><br /> Merry can't run forever though, and soon she finds herself back in the middle of the things she once tried to escape. Once looked down upon at the court for her weak powers and mortality, Merry now surprises even herself with her strength both in combat and in magic. The question is: will this be enough to keep her safe once the Queen finds her?<br /><br /> KISS has all the wonderful Hamilton trademarks: a quirky, spunky heroine, a variety of other-worldly characters, snappy dialogue and heart-pounding action. Merry narrates the tale and provides a more personal insight into the workings of all these magical beings. Doyle, Sholto, Galen, Frost, Uther, Jeremy, the Hags, Roane, Rhys, Kitto (and I could go on) are all delightful characters, and Hamilton lays some solid groundwork for the future of this series.<br /><br /> Merry is descended from several fertility gods...keep this in mind! This novel is much more erotic and blatantly sexual than most of the Anita Blake series. However, the reader discovers that the sensuality (and multiple partners) is all a part of the culture of these beings, and Merry herself finds that part of her powers involve her sexuality. Yes, I often wanted the sex to be finished so that Merry could get back to combat, but it is a nice change of pace to read all of this from the female perspective. However, if you are in the least bit offended by descriptive scenes of intercourse, this is not the book for you. Overall, I liked the blend of eroticism, alternate reality, humor and action. I fell in love with these characters, and I can't wait for the second in the series to be released.iked the blend of eroticism, alternate reality, humor and action. I fell in love with these characters, and I can't wait for the second in the series to be released.	2001-01-09
US	51701856	R14U480KLA03VI	0316693251	319187092	Roses Are Red (Alex Cross)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Bravo!	In ROSES, Patterson gets back to what he does best: delivering action-packed suspense with incredible characters. Alex Cross returns to us to chase the Mastermind, a diabolical villain who has pulled off several bloody bank heists and kidnappings. While Alex struggles with emotional personal issues, he must try to unravel the mystery identity of Patterson's newest sociopath. Sampson, Jannie and Damon, Nana Mama, and Christine are all here along with a few new characters, both good and evil.<br /><br /> The past couple of Patterson books, although good, have been rather anti-climactic for me. ROSES, however, kept my attention and had me guessing all the way through. The ending of ROSES (a complete surprise to me) lays the ground for future storylines, and I can't wait to see how Patterson develops this in the next Alex Cross thriller. With Patterson's trademark short chapters, his tight writing and great character development, ROSES is a fun, heart-pounding read. This is one book that I'm glad I rushed out to buy on the release date. If you are in any way a Patterson fan, you must read ROSES. But clear the calendar because you won't be able to put it down!	2000-12-17
US	51701856	R4W9Y9OKB9Y0A	0312967306	355316406	Cul-De-Sac	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Nail-biter	David Martin strikes again. I am completely in awe of his creation of Growler, a maniacal serial killer with an interesting twist. I was so caught up in this story that there was no way I could put it down and ended up finishing it in one afternoon. Martin's writing is clear, and he drew me in with all the twists and turns to this story.<br /> Donald Growler knows he has been wronged. He has just spent several years of his life in prison for a crime he says he never committed. Now he's out, and he's in search of all the people who caused him to be locked up. I was squirming in my chair with the descriptions of some of the more creative murders in this novel. The plot twists are amazing, and there were quite a few surprises. I love that Teddy Camel makes another appearance; he was a great character in Martin's LIE TO ME (another incredible serial killer novel).<br /> Martin is not for the squeamish! He is very detailed, and his bad guys are downright brutal. But he is a master of plot and character development. This is well worth the time to read!	2000-12-07
US	51701856	R2SHJ9ZPSJ3FWM	0312958358	710076248	Tap, Tap	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Riveting!	Roscoe Bird (Martin has some of the greatest character names) is living a nice, peaceful suburban life until his wealthy childhood friend, Peter, shows up on his doorstep. Peter Tummelier was always an odd, dark character, and Roscoe befriended him because he was also an outsider on the exclusive island where they both grew up. Now after several years, Peter shows up again to ask Roscoe and his wife to sail around the world with him. But Peter also has a major revelation to disclose to Roscoe; he's not the same Peter from their childhood. Peter has now developed a unique appetite and needs someone to help be his daytime look-out as he sails from port to port.<br /> Now this all sounds typical enough; in fact, it doesn't sound so much different than hundreds of horror novels weighing down the shelves. BUT Martin adds his wry sense of humor, his dark characters and his incredible writing to create a truly disturbing little novel. His story never fully answers any questions until the very end, and his attention to detail makes the novel even more believable despite the incredible situations presented here. Peter is outlandishly diabolical and dashing, and poor Roscoe is the hapless victim trying to save his good name before Peter totally pulls him into his web.  This novel is just incredible! It's so rare that I run across a book that totally captivates me and has me guessing until the very end. Tap, Tap is delightfully wicked and utterly dark; it's a great read and will have you begging for more of Martin's works.	2000-12-07
US	51701856	RMLN7C4T5QG8B	038072345X	736730873	ANNO DRACULA                PB	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Unique presentation of the vampire genre	This is a truly unique novel. Newman presents us with a London virtually taken over by the undead. Vampires have come out of hiding and are now fully &quot;out&quot;. Living people (referred to as &quot;warm&quot;) flock to be turned, and vampires are now found in every walk of life from government to shop keeper to prostitute. Newman is extremely detailed, and he introduces numerous characters while weaving in actual historical occurrences into the story. We get a glimpse of this London at the time of the Whitechapel murders; only this time, the Ripper preys on vamp prostitutes, and his identity harkens back to Stoker's DRACULA.<br />All in all, this is a delightful and creative novel. It is a breath of fresh air amidst the Lestat wannabes. Keeping up with all the different characters can be a task, but if you give this novel a chance, you most definitely won't be disappointed. This is the first novel of a trilogy, and I'm rushing to read the next in the series (BLOODY RED BARON).	2000-12-07
US	51701856	R3TUYL4K0A5N2G	0451409450	553807381	Darkness Bound	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Be careful what you wish for	Dillon Masters is leading a relatively typical life until a chance (or is it?) encounter in a department store introduces him to a woman who holds the key to all his most secret fantasies. Dillon then has some choices to make: wait around for his estranged wife to decide the future of their relationship or chase after his newfound mystery woman? Dillon thinks he's hit the jackpot, but then his dark lady turns dangerous, and his entire life is on the line.<br /> It's difficult to miss this book. The very cover captures the attention with the image of a woman, eyes concealed, wrists bound. The synopsis reads like a steamy sexual obsession murder mystery. It is that, but the focus isn't on individual acts of sex so much as it is on a story of how even the simplest of choices can have an enormous impact on our lives, and how each of us has a world that's hidden away from those around us.<br /> Feminists be warned! The female characters here play to type: the madonna, the whore, the crone, etc. Overall, I liked the book; the ending was not disappointing which is so often the case with books that I love right up until the last few pages. I think my favorite character was Detective Tim Rubin who actually plays in the background for most of the book. This is an enjoyable read and should help to add a little warmth to a cold winter night!	2000-12-06
US	51701856	R193I3OR00DDJX	0451201744	232812399	The Walking	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Run! Don't walk..	Bentley Little is able to take the tried-and-true horror formula and work wonders with it. In THE WALKING, he draws from witchcraft, ancient curses and evil revenge to weave a tale that is both creepy and fun to read.<br /> Miles Huerdeen is a detective who takes on a seemingly typical stalking case only to find himself in the middle of some bizarre supernatural phenomenon that threatens to destroy the world. What he finds is a string of horrific murders as well as more than one walking corpse; all these events eventually tie together, and Miles plays a more important role than he ever could realize. Everything keeps pointing to Wolf Canyon which was once home to a thriving witch community but is now under water between two dams. Miles starts to uncover the government secret of the canyon as well as long-buried secrets involving his father and a vile curse spoken by an ancient being.<br /> Reading any Little novel is always a roller coaster ride. He is quite adept at setting mood and pace, and his plots are typically imaginative and captivating. The Walking is a typical Little novel. Although the dramatic build-up leads to a somewhat anti-climactic ending, the book itself is quite simply a lot of fun and well worth the read.	2000-12-06
US	51701856	RFWDT9W3P249O	0671672797	561859325	Neverland	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Couldn't put it down	Clegg does it again. He is one of the most consistently effective horror writers I have ever read. In Never Land, we meet cousins Beau and Sumter summering at their grandmother's home on Gull Island. While the grown-ups drink and fight amongst themselves, the kids explore the island in search of adventure. Unfortunately, Sumter isn't exactly the most mentally healthy child, and he drags his cousins into some bizarre, frightening and dangerous games in his secret hideaway called Neverland. Communicating with another world, Sumter calls forth evil forces that threaten to destroy the family and the island. In the process, family secrets are dragged into the open, and Beau finds himself as the single person who may be able to save his family.  Clegg has a knack for creating believable child characters who act in ways and say things that you would expect from a child. I absolutely could not put this book down until I finished it. It's creepy, suspenseful, and wickedly fun to read. Do what you must to track down these out-of-print Clegg novels; you won't be disappointed.	2000-12-06
US	51701856	RLZSXQTQOCUB6	0671047485	629121134	Shallow Graves (John Pellam #1)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Fun mystery	John Pellam is a great hero! Having gone for a while without a Deaver book fix, I was happy to see that this Location Scout Mystery is in reprint.<br />Scouting a movie location in small-town Cleary, NY, Pellam and his young partner, Marty, are just happy to be almost finished with finding prime shooting locales for the next Hollywood blockbuster. Unfortunately, this small town isn't as thrilled with them, and after a horrible murder, John finds himself fighting for his life, fighting for his reputation and acting as novice detective to clear his name. Along the way, Deaver throws in oddball locals, a love interest, and a twisting, surprising conspiracy.<br />This was a fun read, and I enjoyed it all the way through. The writing is a bit different than some of Deaver's more recent works, but this is a good thing! I'm anxiously awaiting the reprint of the next 2 Location Scout books. Buy this one and enjoy; it doesn't disappoint.	2000-11-24
US	51701856	RVMYK180687D0	999364756X	75263482	Goat Dance	Books	4	26	29	N	Y	Terrific read	By now, all my reader friends are probably pretty tired of hearing my repeated recommendations of Douglas Clegg. When I find something I like, however, I am more than happy to recommend it to others.<br /> Goat Dance takes us to Pontefract, Virginia--a tiny community where everyone knows everyone else. Cup moved away years ago, but he is now having horrifying dreams and receiving ominous telephone calls that lure him back to his hometown. Once there, he is caught up in an ancient evil that is reaching out to gain power. Cup joins forces with some fellow townspeople to try to stop the spread of this horrifying creature before it destroys everyone in its path. At one point, Cup asks himself  &quot;How do you keep the dead out? If they want you, they'll find a way.&quot;<br /> This is a chilling story that kept my attention from page one. The characters are realistic and interesting, the evil is deliciously frightening, and the twists and turns are enough to grab the reader's attention all the way through the story. As with any Clegg novel, this one is part love story, part personal discovery, part epic and 100% scary. This title may be difficult to find, but it is certainly worth the effort. If you are new to Clegg, you might want to also check out YOU COME WHEN I CALL YOU, HALLOWEEN MAN and THE NIGHTMARE CHRONICLES.	2000-11-24
US	51701856	R2DO0ACDINO9BU	0961035218	90884904	Darkside	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Eerie	Doug loves his family. He's been a wonderful father to his step daughters and he does his best to keep his family safe and happy. Daughter Erin reaches out for comfort from teen angst and finds all the wrong influences. Doug must enter a dark, surrealistic world to save his family; he is taken to the utmost limits to see how far he will go for the people he loves.<br /> Etchison is an amazing horror writer. His work is always a treat, and this novel does not disappoint. Be warned: this is a dark story with a not-so-uplifting message. Still, to get your hands on anything written by an author recommended by Stephen King, Charles Grant, Peter Straub, etc. is definitely worth the effort.	2000-11-24
US	51701856	R296ZTFSEXWV3N	0451181468	281774869	Praying for Sleep	Books	3	26	29	N	Y	Below par for Deaver	Lis Atcheson thinks she has her life together after living through a horrifying experience. Then just as a storm is about to hit, she is told that Michael Hrubeck has escaped the mental hospital and is possibly on his way to find her. An all-out manhunt ensues, and Lis tries her best to storm-proof her farmhouse while looking over her shoulder for the man she testified against in a gruesome murder trial.<br />I liked the majority of this book. Hrubek takes on almost supernatural powers at times so that some of the book's situations are a bit unbelievable. But Deaver's strong abilities to create suspense and to keep the reader guessing are present throughout the book. The book could have benefitted from stronger editing; probably at least 150 pages could be omitted without compromising the story. Overall, this is a decent read. It's quick, it's Deaver, and there are some strong elements here. I give it 3 stars because I don't feel this is one of Deaver's better efforts and because if I'm recommending Deaver to a friend, I'd have to go with one of his more recent books (BONE COLLECTOR will forever be on the top of my recommendation list.)	2000-11-24
US	51701856	R1JZRTHCVKBEIX	0553580698	541748362	One of Us	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Fun!	I picked this one up on a whim. I had never heard of Mr. Smith, and I certainly hadn't read anything by him prior to this. Talking, walking alarm clocks? Roving bands of coffee makers? Is this book for real????? Luckily I continued reading despite my initial reaction to the story. I am so glad I gave this book a chance. It is bizarre, it is surreal, but somehow it all works.<br /> Hap Thompson narrates this story about how he came to be employed as a dream and memory receiver, and how this line of work quickly puts him in danger. On the sly, Hap decides to accept a memory (which is illegal work) from a client who then refuses to take back the memory; Hap is in danger not only of going to prison for life but of being killed for this memory. He then sets out on a roller-coaster adventure that addresses ethical, philosophical and theological issues....but it's done in such a tongue-in-cheek, film noir style that it avoids being preachy.<br /> The setting is sometime in the future in a world where humans share space with appliances that not only talk but have attitude. Surfing the internet takes on a literal meaning in this story, and computer hacking is central to the plot. This is a quick, funny, suspense story, and I enjoyed it immensely. Sometimes I'm totally surprised by a book....this one surprised me by how much I enjoyed it. I described it to a friend as Mickey Spillane meets Alice in Wonderland meets the X-Files meets Brave Little Toaster.	2000-11-21
US	51701856	R21VC9GLUQJYJS	0061008737	244235272	The House Next Door	Books	5	90	91	N	N	Out-of-the-blue winner	I have to be honest...I never even imagined myself reading an Anne Rivers Siddons book. Never. And that's not to say that I don't think she's a great writer; I just tend to stick with horror or at least with stories that have a darker side. I picked this one up on the recommendation of several fellow horror fans with this thought: &quot;yeah, right, this will be a waste of my time.&quot; I suppose if I were truly capable of eating my words, I'd be reaching for a fork.<br />This novel introduces us to quite a different time in America. It's the 70's, and it's the South, AND the story is set in an upper-class neighborhood where everyone follows an unwritten code of social conduct. Colquitt and Walter Kennedy (never in my life have I met someone named Colquitt) live a quiet, genteel life. Purposefully childless, they enjoy life's luxuries and spend their time hob-nobbing with their equally successful neighbors. Again, this is the 70's--these characters smoke a lot, eat a lot and drink even more; even the most minor of social get togethers is accompanied by a pitcher of martinis, and everyone seems to have the time (and money) to battle hangovers and to throw lavish parties. The Kennedys love their home overlooking a lovely, peaceful empty lot. But then the lot is sold, and a young, spoiled couple build their dream home utilizing the talents of the brilliant up-and-coming architect, Kim Dougherty. The Kennedys befriend Kim and then watch as terror after terror occurs in the beautiful new home. Tenants come and go, and the Kennedys have to choose between their social standing and their perceived duty to stop the suffering by speaking out about the horrible house.<br />The writing here is wonderful. I could close my eyes and picture every scene. The horror is so subtle that I was surprised to find myself looking over my shoulder throughout this reading. I enjoyed this book, and I've gone on to recommend it to several people. Contrary to some, I liked the ending (and I'll say no more about it). This is one of the best haunted house novels I've ever read, and I plan on holding on to my tattered paperback copy. I never thought I would add a Siddons novel to my horror collection, and I am so happy that I was 100% wrong!y no more about it). This is one of the best haunted house novels I've ever read, and I plan on holding on to my tattered paperback copy. I never thought I would add a Siddons novel to my horror collection, and I am so happy that I was 100% wrong!	2000-10-12
US	51701856	R35A2PKV93AOOP	0886774713	727303671	Blood Price: Victory Nelson Private Investigator: Otherworldly Crimes a Specialty	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Can't wait to read the next one!	If you love vampire fiction, if you love quirky mysteries, if you like horror/fantasy/sci fi, then this is worth a look! I had an hour or so to kill at the mall and picked this up in a bookstore by the food court. I ended up being late for my appointment because I sat down and finished almost half the book before I could leave!<br /> Vicki Nelson is a former homicide detective who left the force due to a disease that stole her night vision. Now a private investigator, Vicki is the first to literally stumble upon a grisly murder. She is then hired to track down the killer who is building quite a long victim list. Enter Henry Fitzroy, the illegitmate son of Henry VIII. The two meet in the middle of this investigation and decide to join forces. One can't see at night, the other can't go out in the day. The perfect crime solving team! Vicki wants to solve the case to stop the killing while Henry wants to stop the killer before a panicked public starts blaming the killings on vampires. Henry has a vested interest in maintaining anonymity. Meanwhile, the body count rises and all clues start pointing to a perp that is anything but human.<br />This was such a fun book to read. I also liked that it is set in Toronto which is a refreshing change from most of the stories I read that are set in American locales. I'm glad I picked this up, and I'm quickly adding the rest of the series to my wish list!	2000-10-11
US	51701856	R26W6O32ZL2N5Z	0312923856	500948550	Probable Cause: When One Man's Passion For Justice Becomes An Obsession For Revenge	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Bravo!	No doubt about it, Pearson is magnificent. He has an incredible knack for creating suspense and developing believable characters. I enjoyed this novel so much and carried it with me just so I could finish it more quickly!<br /> James DeWitt is a brilliant forensic scientist turned detective in Carmel, California. He switches jobs a few months after a horrific loss rocks his family. When suspicious suicides start popping up, DeWitt bulldozes his way past doubting fellow officers to investigate what everyone else says are open-and-shut cases. He teams up with Clare O'Daly, current forensic investigator, to get to the bottom of the mysterious deaths. Along the way he battles bureaucratic red tape, political interference and a burning suspicion that someone is building a bizarre cover-up. Did I mention that someone seems to be stalking his family? DeWitt doesn't even realize the impact this case will have on his life.<br /> Pearson gives us great characters, a likeable hero, a ghastly villain and an intriguing little mystery. This is a taut thriller that held my attention and had me zipping through the pages to find out what would happen next. I'm so glad I found Pearson's books, and now I can't wait to move on to the next one!	2000-10-11
US	51701856	R15JHTWGIGZ1XA	0821743201	94257661	Ghost Light	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Creepy villain	I'll take the middle ground in the reviews here so far. I like Hautala's writing, and I happen to think he is quite talented. I also liked GHOST LIGHT although I did not find it to be incredible. I had some problems with various aspects of the novel, but overall I thought it was a good little thriller.<br />Anyone looking at Debbie and Alex Harris would think they had the perfect life together: beautiful home, 2 incredible children, lasting marriage. But Cindy Toland, Debbie's sister, knows differently, and after Vicki dies in what is dubbed as a freak accident, she knows she has to do something to protect Billy and Krissy, her niece and nephew. She knows the horrors Debbie faced with Alex, and she sets off cross-country with the children to try to escape her maniacal brother-in-law. What does Alex do? He dives into escalating psychopathology and will stop at nothing to punish Cindy for taking what is his. Forever looking over her shoulder, Cindy tries to make a new life for the kids. What she can't escape is Krissy's insistence that a mysterious &quot;blue lady&quot; appears to her each night. A confrontation is inevitable, but Hautala makes sure to build the suspense along the way.<br />I liked the character of Alex. He is insane, he is creepy, he is the absolute worst that humanity has to offer. He adds an edge to this story and had me cheering on the good guys. Yes, the storyline is rather formulaic horror, but it works. It's that simple! I was pulled into the suspense and had to keep reading to find out how everthing comes together at the end. I recommend this book; it's certainly worth the read.	2000-10-11
US	51701856	R1EPTYQ2D1JV4K	0821725068	23373142	Jump Rope	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Moderate effort	I kept checking the cover of JUMP ROPE all throughout the read. It seems like a young adult novel until near the end when more adult themes are brought out. It is an interesting premise. Little girl is compelled to come home early, enters home and makes a gruesome discovery. Throw in a ghost (or is it?) and more grisly murders, add characters who don't really speak to each other, and people with mysterious pasts, and you have a formula for a decent reading experience.<br /> Jensen's writing kept me reading till the end here. However, the story itself drags on for far too long while the end is rather obvious about halfway into the book. I did not feel that the child characters acted like normal children; they were all either too stilted or too sappy. I truly liked Jensen's THE HAUNTING, and that compelled me to go on to some of her earlier works. JUMP ROPE never really grabbed my attention although it's far from the worst novel I've ever read. It certainly hasn't swayed me from reading other novels by Jensen, but it is a book that is already in the to-be-donated box.	2000-10-11
US	51701856	R2AVH8HSAQFMCL	0613171942	532586621	Dust	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Don't mess with Mother Nature!	This is great, frightening fun! Pellegrino devises a rather clever way to  destroy life on earth as we know it. Earth's ecology is all topsy-turvy,  and the foodchain has reversed itself. All over the world, crops are dying,  insects are swarming, animals are acting out of character, and people are  beginning to riot and kill as they realize that the end may truly be near.  Paleobiologist, Richard Sinclair, starts to piece together little clues as  to the causes of these bizarre ecological occurrences. He bands together  with others to try to come up with a way to ensure that human life survives  on the planet. Along the way, we get to see nature at its most frightening  (I love the bat sequences faced by Bill and Janet, they gave me major  chills!). I think the most frightening aspect of the novel is the tendency  of the humans to sink to the lowest level when faced with extraordinary  circumstances.<br />This is a smart, taut little thriller. Pellegrino throws  in some pop culture references, some humor (the Andrew Lloyd Webber/Stephen  King musical production of &quot;Survivor Type&quot; is worth several  chuckles), ethical questions and a lot of science to round out this novel.  I enjoyed the story, I liked the characters, and I loved the images  presented in the writing. This one's a winner.	2000-09-05
US	51701856	R1CZTDRSCMJ18J	0446603716	783958961	Hide and Seek	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Can't win 'em all	I can't quite put my finger on just one reason why I do not like this  novel. Perhaps it's because I read this one right after I read KISS THE  GIRLS. Perhaps I was in a bad mood when I read it. Whatever the reason,  HIDE &amp; SEEK never redeemed itself in my eyes. The novel is short (my  hardcover version is just over 300 pages), but it seemed to take me forever  to get to the end. I was very surprised at the mediocrity of the storyline.  Maggie Bradford is a survivor of an extremely abusive marriage. She flees  with her daughter but not before firing away at the lout she married. Fast  forward a few years and Maggie is a successful singer/songwriter on trial  once again for the murder of husband #2. Did she do it? Is it coincedence?  Is she the victim or the perpetrator?<br /> To be honest, I never connected  with any of the characters. I truly didn't care who did what to whom and  how anyone may or may not have died. The novel has Patterson's trademark  short 'n sweet chapters, but I felt it lacked his ability to build suspense  and to create interesting characters. I've liked almost everything so far  that I've read by Patterson. Every author has his/her clunkers; I hope that  this is Patterson's only one.	2000-09-05
US	51701856	R3RQ5SLE4T5AB2	0812543262	584815540	Relic (Pendergast, Book 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Far better than the movie version	Let's face it, how often do our favorite novels get turned into mush by  the Hollywood machine? RELIC is one of those novels. This may not be a  Shakespearian masterpiece, but it deserved far better treatment than it  received in the movie version. RELIC is a wonderfully fun, surprisingly  creepy little morality tale about why humans should stop messing around  with nature. One curious anthropolgist explores the jungles and finds more  than he bargains for. Tribal people talk of the Kothoga, or shadow people.  Of course, the American explorers know that this is just superstitious  talk, and that nothing can come from the so-called curses? Right? Flash  ahead to New York City and its wondrous museums. The New York Museum of  Natural History becomes the site of gruesome murders and a newly revived  rumor of a museum beast. Museum researcher Margo Green and Lieutenant  Vincent D'Agosta team up to try to discover the identity of the killer and  to stop it before it destroys everyone in its path. Throw in a lavish  museum fundraiser complete with an elaborate exhibition that somehow ties  into the &quot;beast&quot;, and you end up with a lot trapped potential  victims and an incredible chase through the underground tunnels beneath the  museum. The question is: what exactly is doing the killing and where did it  come from?<br /> Preston and Child pull together all the elements for a  great work of suspense. I was glued to this story to find out the ending,  and I found RELIC to be a fun, intense ride. I recommend this one for  anyone interested in &quot;monster&quot; tales and good suspense.	2000-09-05
US	51701856	R3IN10JEY0134Q	0843946261	302973723	Welcome Back to the Night	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Intense	After reading SINEATER by Massie, I was in a rush to pick up WELCOME BACK  TO THE NIGHT. Massie's author photo on the back cover is so deceptively  nice because her writing packs an incredible punch. Massie does not hold  anything back, and I found myself on a dizzying ride throughout this  reading.<br /> WELCOME centers on Bernie, Norris, and Lindsay; cousins who  meet again as adults at a family reunion. Bernie senses that Lena will also  attend the reunion; Lena was the &quot;odd, smelly&quot; girl that their  aunt took in as a foster child when they were all teenagers. Once the four  make actual, physical contact, nothing is the same for any of them. Bernie,  Norris, and Lindsay all begin to have terrifying visions of someone who is  being abused and tortured; Bernie sees someone as a child, Lindsay sees  someone as an adult, and Norris seems to see the future. All this takes  place at the same time that a fanatical, militant racist group is gaining  more power in terrifying ways. Townspeople are disappearing, and Massie  dangles just enough clues in front of us before bringing everything  together at the end.<br /> I have to say that this was quite a disturbing  read. There is no slow build up to the tension here; the intensity is high  from the very first paragraph. There is incredibly graphic violence, there  are hate crimes (to put it mildly), there is cruelty toward animals. This  is definitely not a novel for the easily offended or the squeamish. Massie  keeps the suspense level high. She alternates point of view between the  characters; the villain is twisted and evil, and the &quot;good guys&quot;  are not without their flaws. Yes, this was a disturbing read for me, but I  was so engrossed in the story that I couldn't possibly put it down until I  finished every last word. There are reasons why Massie is a Bram Stoker  Award winner; her writing is just downright incredible. I highly recommend  this one.	2000-08-29
US	51701856	R2CI1BCBYK6HK9	0440218675	150234018	The Children's Hour	Books	5	30	31	N	N	&quot;Where I am, it's always night.&quot;	I searched high and low for a copy of this book. I was afraid after all the build-up that the actual story would be a let down. I am so pleased  that I was wrong. This is a fantastic story on a variety of levels.<br />  Author Joe Gardner travels with his family to his childhood hometown of  Colony. He has avoided the town and his horrific memories of it for years  and now finds himself facing the friends and family members who stir up  unpleasant memories. As soon as he hits the town line, he begins to hear  the nightmare things of the past once again calling him. Meanwhile, Colony  is being terrorized by something....something evil that steals its  children. Joe reunites with figures from his childhood to try to stop the  terror only to find his own wife and children in harm's way.<br /> This is a  novel about faith, loss, forgiveness, love, and fears both real and  imagined. Tad Peterson is a wonderfully likeable child character; he  exemplifies Clegg's knack for writing realistic characters. The novel  focuses on those things that take on monumental proportions to us as  children, only to shrink in importance when we are adults. And it also  shows that children are the ones most likely to accept the things adults  shrug off with rationalizations.<br />I can't say enough good things about  THE CHILDREN'S HOUR. There were parts that caused me to put the novel down  for a while before continuing because they were so frightening. There were  parts that almost made me cry. I'm glad I found the novel, and I don't  regret the search for it in any way. This one is worth a bit of effort just  to read this incredibly creepy, very touching story!	2000-08-29
US	51701856	RTDK0VTYT9OCJ	0451457870	776172766	Black Oak 4: Hunting Ground	Books	4	9	9	N	N	See no evil, speak no evil	I am a big fan of Charles Grant. I cannot think of anything I've read by him that I haven't liked. HUNTING GROUND fits well into that reading  tradition. I love this Black Oak series; it's creepy, it's fun, it has all  the elements of great suspense. Grant's writing, as usual, is superb, and I  enjoy getting to know the characters a little more with each addition to  the series.<br /><br /> Proctor is the dark, moody leader of Black Oak  Security. He has experienced a lot of weird things in his life, and this  only continues as each of the agency's cases gets more and more bizarre.  Even moodier than usual, Proctor mopes around his employees who then decide  that the boss needs to take a vacation. What better way to forget your  troubles than a jaunt in Atlantic City? Proctor, Doc and Taz arrive at a  boardwalk casino just in time for two things: a heavy, raging winter storm  that traps everyone in their hotels and The Ripper who (or what?) is  picking off tourists and locals one by one in a most unpleasant manner. Of  course Proctor gets caught up in the investigation; it even breathes a  little life into him. Along the way, he meets up with Petra, a mysterious  character who may or may not be human. The body count rises, the suspense  holds, and Proctor finds more and more clues that the cases he investigates  may be part of an overall plan to eliminate him. The question is: who wants  him out of the picture?<br /><br /> This series is fun reading. The books  remind me of the wonderful old cliffhangers; I devour one only to wait  impatiently for the next to hit the shelves! I can't wait to read on and  find out how the conspiracy surrounding Proctor and his agency unfolds. I  highly recommend this series!	2000-08-29
US	51701856	R42B8IOXU3QJQ	0441346634	251826565	Howling Mad	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	If you hate to laugh while reading, don't read this..	I can't believe I waited so long to read HOWLING MAD. Peter David takes a  traditional mythical creature and stands it on its head. &quot;Josh&quot;  is a standard timberwolf that runs into trouble when he's bitten by a  werewolf. At the full moon he starts turning into a human man. This story  follows his trials and tribulations of trying to accept his transformation,  being taken far away from his forest and then trying to return to his pack.  Along the way he encouters Darlene, a co-dependent do-gooder who falls in  love with him; Duncan, the vampire, who leads a rather non-traditional  vampiric existence; and the werewolf himself who is intent on destroying  Josh. Josh struggles between his wolf self and his human self, and it's a  scream to watch how he develops as a human man (no enlightened savant here,  it's beer and television all the way). The story is told by Josh as a  series of recollections to an unseen writer who is a friend of Darlene. The  characters are quirky, the plot is fantastic, and even the wolves have  funny dialogue. I laughed so hard throughout the novel that people started  to ask if I was alright! It's funny, it's fast-paced, and it's delightfully  tongue-in-cheek. This one is a keeper!	2000-08-27
US	51701856	RPTPX6DYN713T	0446607657	408200678	When the Wind Blows	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Breezy reading	There aren't too many James Patterson novels I haven't read. This was one  of them, so I picked it up expecting to be riveted by the story till the  end. I like the theme of the novel; genetic experiments on humans should be  a topic worthy of producing look-over-your-shoulder suspense. I certainly  like Patterson's short chapters and quick character development. WHEN is a  unique story that treats a sensitive, scary subject a bit differently than  some other medical thrillers.<br /> Then why was I disappointed? Perhaps  because I found it difficult to &quot;buy into&quot; the actions of most of  the characters. They didn't read like real people, and the mutants were  stilted and saccharin. Patterson's trademark suspense shines through, but  the climax is about 75 pages too long, in my opinion. The spectacular  creations of the evil scientists are too readily accepted and too easily  explained. Again, I really like the basic concept for this novel, but it  failed to intrigue me on so many different levels; it took me a couple of  weeks to finish this one because I repeatedly put it aside in favor of  other reads.<br />I think this may be a decent read for someone unfamiliar  with Patterson's trademark thrillers. If you devoured KISS THE GIRLS, THE  MIDNIGHT CLUB or JACK &amp; JILL, I doubt that you will be equally riveted  by this one.	2000-08-18
US	51701856	R1IQ28QI8TVALO	0441006841	951523061	Obsidian Butterfly (An Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 9)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Great for Edward fans	If you are a fan of this series, then this book is a must-read. Hamilton wrote it to give all those Edward fans a serious look into his personality,  his past, his motivations, etc. However, if you are new to this series:  skip this book and go back to the beginning! This one would just be too  confusing for anyone unfamiliar with the history of these characters.<br />  In OBSIDIAN, Anita flies to New Mexico when Edward calls in a long-standing  favor she owes him. What ensues is a good-vs-evil tale involving ancient  aztec rituals, revenge and good old fashioned monsters. Edward also reveals  a personal life which is downright startling considering his  &quot;career&quot;. Anita is her usual sarcastic, tough broad self; I have  always loved the old detective novel feel in the dialogue and action of  this series. But one thing this novel is very heavy on: Anita constantly  questions her relationship with Jean Claude and Richard and is in major  personal turmoil throughout the story.<br /> I love this series. It's fun,  it's fast-paced, and the characters are fascinating. Anita has quite an  edge, but we've watched her mature with the progression of the series. In  OBSIDIAN I enjoyed &quot;meeting&quot; the new characters, especially  psychopathic Olaf who seems to waiting in the wings for future  installments. Was this the best in the series? I don't think so. But it has  its own merits and has to be read to keep up with the characters and  storyline. I enjoyed it; I applaud Hamilton for being able to maintain  consistency with the history of this alternate reality. As for those who  question if Anita has lost her edge---Anita herself keeps questioning this,  and I think this is going to lead to some interesting sequences in future  episodes. This is not the constantly kicking-butt Anita that is ever  present in the other novels (although there is a fair amount of serious  butt kicking). Anita is more introspective and is coming to terms with some  life issues in OBSIDIAN. For me, Anita Blake is always worth a read, and I  am a diehard fan of this series. I recommend OBSIDIAN to any Anita Blake  fan or to anyone interested in alternate reality/vampire fiction.SIDIAN. For me, Anita Blake is always worth a read, and I  am a diehard fan of this series. I recommend OBSIDIAN to any Anita Blake  fan or to anyone interested in alternate reality/vampire fiction.	2000-08-16
US	51701856	RB600Q7B16YMH	0786010959	487855076	The Haunting	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Basic horror	Ruby Jean Jenson captivated my interest from page one in this novel. THE  HAUNTING offers a portrait of a house filled with and maintained by evil.  The first half of the novel brings us face to face with people from nearly  a century ago who are struggling with the bizarre occurrences in the house.  Katrina, Eddie, and Angie slowly come to realize the horrors that await in  the house's belly. The second half brings modern-day characters who happen  to have a link to the past. They move into the house and *voila!* you have  yourself a creepy little creature story. Miss Theodora (mistress of the  house) is delightfully wicked, although a great deal of her evil is left to  the imagination of the reader.<br />I agree with some who say this is not  the greatest of horror novels. I also feel that the novel, especially the  second half, drags on far too long. However, I enjoyed getting to know the  earlier characters, and I had to keep reading to find out how the good vs.  evil struggle ends. The language is wonderful, and I like Jensen's writing  style. This isn't a true haunted house story but rather a story that  involves satanism/black magic, reincarnation, revenge, animal and human  sacrifice and slithering reptilian creatures. Don't read this one expecting  great, classic horror. But if you like a story that will grab you and give  you goosebumps, I certainly recommend this one.	2000-08-11
US	51701856	R34JBNO9YKRC9A	084394739X	916985744	The Dawning	Books	4	15	18	N	N	The title hints at so many meanings	Who hasn't at least considered the possibility that our actions will one day destroy our planet? In THE DAWNING, prolific writer Hugh B. Cave takes  us on a journey to a not-so-distant time when the earth has finally been  ravaged by pollution, senseless violence and total disregard for nature. A  small group of survivors decides to abandon the dangerous city and strike  out for the north Canada wilderness. Equipping themselves with canoes,  basic food staples, weapons and small tools, these 10 people start on a  quest to find an unpolluted haven to live out the rest of their lives. What  they don't anticipate is that nature has taken on a more active role in  protecting her remaining resources. Each member of the group soon discovers  that a desire for survival is not enough. Cuyler, the group's  self-proclaimed woodsman, kills animals with abandon and treats everyone  around him with disdain. He, too, soon discovers that his actions have dire  consequences for himself and everyone else.<br /><br /> This is a sobering  morality tale. The language is somewhat stilted; I'm not sure I know anyone  who speaks like these characters. However, the story itself is haunting,  and yet manages to provide a sense of hope for human survival. I was  surprised at how quickly I became involved in the story, and how I rushed  to reach the conclusion. Cave is an eloquent writer, and this latest is a  great example of his ability to touch the very subjects most important to  us.	2000-08-09
US	51701856	R3816RCSTWE3ZF	0451456661	401942092	Son of Darkness	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Light read	Dark, mysterious Ilaron teams up with plucky Denise Sheridan, a museum  curator. Through Ilaron, Denise discovers that the worlds she reads about  in her beloved fantasy novels may not be completely fictional after all.  Ilaron is handsome, strong, wealthy, and he harbors a secret past that no  one on this earth could imagine. Once a cult leader fixates on Denise and  attempts to offer her as a sacrifice to call an ancient goddess, Ilaron and  Denise are thrown into a chaotic, dangerous quest to stop the destruction  of this realm. Together they must fight Lamashtu, an arrogant, bored and  powerful goddess, as well as Kerezar, a dangerous nemesis from Ilaron's  past.<br /> This was a relatively enjoyable read. There is a great deal of  humor as both Ilaron and Kerezar struggle in a world full of technology and  bizarre pop culture. Denise is interesting enough as the heroine of the  story, but she buys into Ilaron's story of his secret identity a bit too  quickly to be believable. What you won't find in this book is strong  writing or a complex plot. Everything is pretty straight forward and moves  quickly toward the predictable climax. SON is probably best suited as a  young adult novel; the reader does not really have to guess at anything  throughout the story. It's amusing, it's a quick read, and there are  moments in the book that are quite enjoyable. Overall, I found it lacking  challenge and depth, but if you are looking for something that is quick and  light, this might be just the thing.	2000-08-06
US	51701856	R171SC05BMQNL	0425121631	425740762	Rules of Prey	Books	3	61	71	N	Y	What can I say?	Lucas Davenport, ace investigator, is on the trail of the latest woman-hunter who savagely kills without leaving a clue. Louis Vullion is a  mediocre attorney turned serial killer who loves games as much as  Davenport. The two begin a cat-and-mouse chase once Louis fails in his  attempts to murder Carla Ruiz.<br /> This is the first Sandford novel I've  attempted. After reading so many positive, enthusiastic reviews of the PREY  series, I simply had to start at the beginning. Was I disappointed? Not  entirely. There are some interesting characters. Carla Ruiz is a rather  strong, determined, intelligent woman. Sister Mary Joseph (or Elle Kruger  when she grew up with Davenport) was my favorite character overall; she's  witty, intelligent, confident and she serves as an anchor and confidante  for Davenport. Louis himself is an interesting killer; however, there is no  clear motive for his killing. There are some brief mentions of a weak  mother, but nothing substantial about Louis is ever fleshed out. Annie  McGowan and Jennifer Carey are rival tv reporters sniffing out the hottest  story in Minnesota. Then there's Davenport. Intelligent? Yes. Brilliant  detective? Perhaps. But he also possesses the scruples of a street hood,  beds half the female characters before the story truly begins, and is quite  willing to plant evidence or to physically threaten/harm witnesses or  suspects. He designs elaborate games which supposedly supplies him with an  income allowing him to drive a Porsche, own a wilderness hideaway, a boat,  and several collectible firearms. One of his many girlfriends becomes  pregnant, and the two share many a glass of wine and bottles of beer  throughout the novel. Hmmmm.....<br /> The last 100 pages of this novel  redeemed it in my opinion. I was honestly rather bored through the earlier  segments, but I appreciated the quicker pace offered more toward the end.  Perhaps I've read one too many serial-killer novels, but this one was a bit  too predictable for my taste. I know I'll try out at least one more in the  series to see if Sandford develops some of these characters (and if  Davenport's libido cools off). I'd also like to see if Sandford is able to  strengthen the writing and to provide a less predictable story with a more  thrilling conclusion. Overall, I give this 3 stars because it was  interesting enough to keep me reading. I'll reserve more glowing reviews if  the next in the series does better at grabbing my attention from beginning  to end.ble for my taste. I know I'll try out at least one more in the  series to see if Sandford develops some of these characters (and if  Davenport's libido cools off). I'd also like to see if Sandford is able to  strengthen the writing and to provide a less predictable story with a more  thrilling conclusion. Overall, I give this 3 stars because it was  interesting enough to keep me reading. I'll reserve more glowing reviews if  the next in the series does better at grabbing my attention from beginning  to end.	2000-08-06
US	51701856	R258ULMZTJYB59	0786865636	783765194	Middle of Nowhere	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Excellent thriller	This book does not disappoint! Pearson is a master of details. Reading his novels isn't only a thrill, it's an educational experience as Pearson brings out a wealth of forensic and investigative knowledge. This Lou Boldt  series has been a wonderful thrill ride from the beginning, and MIDDLE is  probably the best yet (IMHO).<br />Pearson is skillful at developing  entertaining, realistic characters, rich, captivating writing and a plot  that grabs you by the collar and doesn't let go until you're left gasping  for air at the end. It's difficult to be more specific about this novel  without giving away what happens, but any mystery fan is sure to love this  one. Give MIDDLE a try, but be forewarned--you won't be able to put it down  until you've finished the last word.	2000-07-30
US	51701856	R1XMY83153C9BG	0843944072	163106233	Sineater	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Great choice for the Bram Stoker	Excellent. That's my one-word review. Massie demonstrates some of the finest writing talent I've seen in a long time. Her words create images that have stayed with me long after reading SINEATER.<br /> SINEATER starts  with the birth of Joel, the newest member of the Barker family whose  patriarch is the sineater--the person who eats from the dead in order to  absorb their sins. The Barkers are shunned in this small Virginia town and  try to live out a quiet existence in their mountain home. No one in town  wants to associate with, touch or even look upon a Barker. Then Missy  Campbell, a hopeful relgious leader, calls for the townspeople to forego  the sineater tradition and to find another way to help the souls of the  dead enter heaven. Thus begins a serious of deaths with dire warnings about  ignoring tradition and turning away from God. Joel, now in school despite  the traditions, struggles to find his place in the world and to make  contact with other humans, most of whom turn away from him.<br /> This is  one of the most touching horror novels I've ever read. I truly felt  compassion and hope for Joel, and I cared about what happened to the  characters. The writing style is excellent, and the characters are  well-developed. I don't always agree with the choices that award committees  make for &quot;best&quot; novels, but in this case Massie deserves all the  recognition and applause for her first novel. I will definitely be reading  her other books.	2000-07-29
US	51701856	R2H74LQ6XIY8N8	0553581767	328989327	Manhattan Is My Beat (Rune)	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	Very enjoyable	I've been hooked on Deaver since I read THE BONE COLLECTOR. I was pleasantly surprised by MANHATTAN... I found it to be an excellent example of some of the basics that make Deaver novels so much fun. He has created  one of the most enjoyable lead characters here in Rune, a somewhat kooky,  plucky 20-year-old with a vivid imagination and romantic ideals. She meets  up with even more interesting characters in Mr. Kelly, Tony (her boss),  Stephanie, Raoul Elliott, Sandra, Haart, Zane, Richard, etc. This is a  classic in-the-wrong-place-at-the-wrong-time story as Rune accidentally  interrupts the murderer of her friend, Mr. Kelly. Throw in some assumptions  about the killing, some crime-solving techniques Rune has learned from  movies, cops, bad guys and lusty roommates, and you have a formula for a  light, fun mystery. And with most Deaver novels, you never really know who  anyone actually is until the end.<br /> I truly enjoyed reading this novel.  As an earlier Deaver work, it's not as polished as some we've seen more  recently. However, I liked that this one seems to be all about the joy of  writing a good story rather than the chore of writing for the masses. I  recommend this one; it's quick and it's fun. I, for one, vote for a series  starring the very loveable Rune.	2000-07-22
US	51701856	R1AZJMKCHM5OSW	0684853159	2967327	The WASP FACTORY: A NOVEL	Books	4	11	14	N	Y	You could fit an Alsatian in there!	Banks is a literary master. His books are filled with incredible language, humor, suspense and detail. THE WASP FACTORY, narrated by teenaged Frank, is a surreal journey through the mind of a very disturbed boy in an even  more disturbed family. Frank tells us of the gruesome measures he has taken  to protect the island which he calls home. He also talks about the series  of murders he has commmitted, his reserved, eccentric father, his friend,  Jamie, the dwarf, and his revered but completely insane older brother Eric.  It seems that Eric has escaped the hospital and is making his way back to  the family home. We get glimpses into Eric's psyche through phone calls he  periodically places to his younger brother.<br /> I know that this novel  originally met with a great deal of controversy. It actually seems rather  tame in comparison to other slasher/gore novels. However, it is immensely  disturbing to read as Frank gets closer and closer to discovering his true  self just as Eric gets closer and closer to home. You'll find animal  torture and killing in this one. The wasp factory itself is an amazing bit  of literary creation; Banks is either warped or a genius (or a warped  genius) to have invented this contraption! I liked reading this one. It is  at times sad, unsettling, hilarious, numbing....a jumble of emotions to go  along with the images and experiences of these characters. If you only know  Banks for his science fiction, this is definitely worth checking out. If  you haven't read Banks at all, stop depriving yourself of an incredibly  talented author!	2000-07-21
US	51701856	R2OEK9ADIZJOJR	0812509560	790447833	Sacrifice	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Horror to make Freud proud	Greg Walker (so aptly named) seems like the most typical of Americans, hard-working, devoted husband and father, member of the local Chamber of Commerce. Then a series of seemingly random events causes him to act out of  character. Or so we think. His wife of 18 years and their beautiful  17-year-old daughter are worried about Greg, but they have no idea who he  really is.<br /> Farris manages to let the reader know exactly what is going  to happen throughout the novel, while keeping us in suspense by not telling  us how those events are going to play out. The characters are richly  developed with realistic dialogue and action. Farris also weaves brilliant  psychology in with the suspense and terror. No character is all good or all  bad; these are complex people facing complex situations. Underlying all  this are cultural messages regarding emerging sexuality, fears about aging,  and the obsession with youth. Freud would say &quot;I told you so&quot; if  he read some of these passages about conflicting father/daughter emotions!  This is such a good book, and it is quite unique in the sea of slasher  horror that seems to overrun the stands. There is some gore, but overall  this is a more subtle form of horror with terrific writing and a wonderful  sense of plot and climax.	2000-07-14
US	51701856	R3CNIOKAXMFNVS	0806128410	888238227	Bone Game: A Novel (American Indian Literature and Critical Studies Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Haunting, surreal	I just happened to stumble upon this novel through a book club. I enjoyed  every sentence of it! Owens blends Native American history, lore and custom  with his characters' modern-day American concerns and fears. Cole  McCurtain, teaching Indian Studies at Santa Cruz, finds that he is lonely,  drinking far too much, and missing his family. His daughter, Abby, comes to  stay with him at the same time that body parts start floating ashore. Cole  is haunted by nightmares that seem to be telling him a story. He is also  surrounded by a fascinating array of characters who fill the novel with  humor, sarcasm and wisdom.<br /> Owens' writing is first-rate. This is a  chilling novel that, at the same time, is quite touching. I cared about  what happened to the characters and had to keep reading to find out the  next twist.	2000-07-09
US	51701856	RTHQA07WJ3Y9G	0786012587	866822656	The Stake	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Fun, fun, fun, till her daddy takes the stake away....	This is a true treat for Laymon fans! Larry, Jean, Pete and Barbara are four friends who go exploring through a ghost town only to literally fall upon a mummified corpse with a stake through her heart. Pete and  (reluctantly) Larry cook up a money-making scheme: author Larry will write  about their adventure with the corpse and finish off the story with a  ceremonial de-staking. The question floating in the background throughout  the novel is will this gal sit up once she's no longer staked?<br /><br />I  love how Laymon builds in real-life terror from human monsters in his  tales. In this one, Larry becomes so obsessed with the corpse that he not  only starts dreaming about her, he totally overlooks some very serious  things going on with his wife and daughter. Teen daughter, Lane, finds  herself fighting something far worse than a potential vampire. THE STAKE is  quite a unique vampire tale. It's fun, it's suspenseful, it shows the true  monsters for what they really are. This is a great book for any horror,  vampire, or suspense fan. Try it, you won't regret it!	2000-07-07
US	51701856	RN4Y1D4CQGVF8	0441006280	151120519	News from the Edge: Vampires of Vermont	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Lukewarm	Savvy (Savannah) Mckinnon is a reporter for the tabloid &quot;Global Query&quot;. As such, she often finds herself pursuing bizarre events barely qualifying as news. In this installment of the NEWS FROM THE EDGE  series, Savvy is on the trail of a self-proclaimed vampire. When she  travels to meet Count Yorga, she expects a quickie interview and easy  story; what she finds is a murder mystery and conspiracy with herself smack  dab in the middle of the action.<br /> This is a light, quick read and at  just under 200 pages, I was able to finish it in one sitting. I truly  enjoyed the wry humor laced throughout the story, but I never felt as if  the characters are fully fleshed out. This might be a good one to finish up  by the pool or on the beach. But if you're looking for hard hitting vampire  fiction, skip this one.	2000-07-06
US	51701856	R10WLCWGPKYQBN	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	5	76	82	N	N	Mesmerizing	I usually don't read this type of book. With that said, let me also say that I picked up this book and didn't put it down until I finished the last word. This is not a fictionalized account of what the last moments on the  Andrea Gail were like during that horrible 1991 storm. Don't read this  expecting huge dramatic moments, overblown sensationalized heroics or a  tragic love story. Granted, heroism, romance and drama are certainly  involved in this tragic tale of real people facing real events. But what  Junger manages to do is educate those of us who are bound to the land about  the rigors, dangers and pleasures of those who work in the fishing  industry. He weaves in some history of the industry, the fishing waters and  of the crew of the A.G. themselves. He also provides some very detailed  meteorological information along with specifics about marine behavior and  tidal patterns. While reading this book, I would often close my eyes and  try to imagine what it would be like to stand onboard facing a sheer wall  of deadly water. Or to make the decision to risk my life to save someone  else. The disapperance of the Andrea Gail is the focal point of the novel,  but Junger also writes about the various rescue efforts taking place at sea  during the worst storm in recorded history. Many people lost their lives,  many others barely escaped death. This book brings all that to life. I give  this book 5 stars because it is very rare for a true-to-life account to  touch me and hold my attention for so long. Knowing the grim outcome of  these events did not diminish the book's impact.	2000-07-01
US	51701856	RH2WLTNQXQJCY	0385480024	442343154	Furnace	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Circumstances make unlikely heroes	I was so happy to stumble on Muriel Gray's TRICKSTER. She doesn't pull any punches when writing horror. After that, I didn't hesitate to pick up FURNACE, and I certainly wasn't disappointed.<br /> Josh Spiller (love that  name) is a trucker. With domestic problems on his mind, he pulls off in  Furnace, VA for a bite to eat and falls right into the middle of a  supernatural power struggle involving child sacrifice and ancient evil.  What he doesn't know at first is that the entire quaint little town is part  of the evil secret of Furnace, and that he has been picked to carry out  demonic purpose. Josh just wants to get home, but no matter how far he  drives, he can't escape that little town. Gray creates a wonderfully  horrifying tale; the events take on nightmare qualities as Josh struggles  desperately to save his soul and to keep the evil from his family.<br />  This is certainly a good read. It could have benefitted from better  editing--there were times I had to check to make sure the setting was  actually in America. But, overall, I enjoyed this one a great deal and  can't wait for Gray's next one to hit the stands.	2000-06-25
US	51701856	RSPUDY6XHF8DS	0812579259	606443502	The Keep	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Refreshingly unique	A friend asked me to describe THE KEEP. I had to tell him I couldn't say too much about this complex novel for fear of giving away vital plot lines before he could read for himself.<br /> Set in World War II, THE KEEP follows  a German Army troop as they move into a Romanian mountain fortress to  protect a strategic entry point from enemies. Then 'something' starts  picking them off one by one. Reinforcements arrive by way of an SS  extermination squad which is no more successful in vanquishing the unseen  foe. Then we're introduced to Professor Cuza, his daughter, Magda, and  Glenn, the mysterious stranger. What ensues is one of the most uniqe  vampire stories I have ever read. The power struggle between Captain  Woermann and SS Major Kaempffer provides constant tension and conflict  throughout the story. Molasar, the resident vamp, is so evil and  fascinating; I'd like to see more of him. But he's not your garden-variety  vampire; Wilson throws in a few twists to the traditional vamp tale. This  novel brilliantly combines history, military strategy and politics, vampire  myth, and suspense to create one incredible story. Some Nazis get disposed  of along the way which, in my opinion, is never a bad thing.<br /> This is a  great read. I couldn't put it down, and I can't wait to move on to the next  in the series.	2000-06-18
US	51701856	R14B74OMG67VKY	0441005748	552287926	Blue Moon (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Steamy	Anita Blake, vampire hunter, answers her telephone to find out that Richard, her former fiance, is in a Tennessee jail for rape. She knows Richard has been framed, so she packs her bags, boards Jean-Claude's  private jet along with an array of werewolves, wereleopards and vampires  and heads for the hills to save Richard. There the group encounters several  bad guys, both living, dead and otherwise, and must fight mentally and  physically to get out with their lives.<br /> If you're new to this series  and start with this book, prepare to be confused. You need to start at the  beginning to get the full feel of numerous characters. Jean-Claude is  mostly absent during this novel (I, for one, was disappointed), but I was  very happy to see some other characters developed more fully. Asher plays a  bigger role in this novel, and it seems that there are plans for him in the  future of this series. Anita grapples not only with how to save Richard  from the local bad guys, but with her intense feelings for him. She spends  much of the novel trying to figure out the meaning of the triumverate as  well as her position with all the shape shifters. With each installment of  the series, the storyline gets darker and more erotic. This Anita is  definitely a more mature version of the Anita we saw in GUILTY PLEASURES,  and this novel brings out an additional twist to Jean-Claude's involvement  with Anita and Richard. This series is great reading! Hamilton has created  one of the best developed alternate histories in the genre.	2000-06-11
US	51701856	R2SUYJW0CK83SB	0345433297	38926947	Nightshade	Books	3	18	22	N	N	Not exactly horror	Let me say this right up front: I like Saul's writing style. He has a way with words. BLACKSTONE CHORONICLES led me to this author, and I've tried several of his works since then.<br /><br />With that said......NIGHTSHADE is  the second Saul novel I've read in as many weeks. I was extremely  disappointed in the other novel, and NIGHT only scores a bit higher due to  some of the darker family issues raised in it. The Hapgoods appear for all  the world to be a loving, happy, content family. That all shatters quite  quickly when grandma Emily, suffering from Alzheimer's and seemingly intent  on making everyone around her feel lower than dung, moves into the  Hapgood's estate. Constantly comparing Joan Hapgood to her beautiful, smart  but dead older sister, Cynthia, Emily strikes out to totally deflate her  younger daughter. Teenage grandson, Matt, starts having violent, erotic  dreams that plague him. Then the body count starts to rise. What ensues is  an attempt to create a sharp psychological thriller. It almost succeeds.  However, too much of the novel is repetitive with some passages being  repeated almost word for word. The PSYCHO-like feel to the story is  interesting, and as I stated above, Saul creates incredible word pictures.  Unfortunately, the villain is too easily figured out very early in the  novel, and not a lot actually happens through a great deal of the story. In  its favor, NIGHT is a quick read that could be enjoyable if you are looking  for light suspense or horror.<br /><br />This novel brings out some very  disturbing family dysfunctions. As in RIGHT HAND OF EVIL, Saul digs out  those family secrets and weaves them in with the sinister aspects of his  story. Child abuse, incest, and mental illness all come together here, but  they are also all too neatly wrapped up without deeper inspection  throughout this story. There was great potential for a darker sort of  story. I give this 3 stars because of Saul's knack for word art, but I, for  one, wasn't too enamored of the book overall.wasn't too enamored of the book overall.	2000-06-11
US	51701856	R3LSW6HBY2GLMZ	0345384369	591020220	Intensity	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Had lots of potential	I will join the very few who did not particularly care for this novel. I've read worse, but I've also read better. Chyna goes to spend a lovely weekend with her slightly spoiled, overly wealthy friend at the beautiful  family home. She winds up first fleeing and then chasing a serial killer  who fancies himself indestructible. There are some worthwhile scenes: Chyna  trying to creep through the house to avoid the killer preying on her  friend's family. However, Koontz's dialogue and character development fell  flat for me. I never really cared what happened to any of the characters,  and the plot dissolved before it was truly built. I didn't feel that Vess,  the killer, was really that frightening, and all the characters talked as  if they were reciting lines for a school play....very stiff. Obviously,  more people feel differently than I about this novel. For me, it never  lives up to its name. Koontz tends to have great ideas but often fails to  reach their potential.	2000-06-09
US	51701856	R20TMJ1WG9X2UP	0345433165	990014722	The Right Hand of Evil	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Another &quot;the-devil-made-me-do-it&quot; book	The Conways are a family brimming with secrets. Ted Conway, father, is a drunk; he's wasted much of his life in a bottle, feeling sorry for himself while blaming others for his misfortune. Underneath, the Conways have a  deeper secret that culminates in the home that has housed generations of  Conways. Ted's aunt Cora dies, leaving the St. Albans home to Ted and his  family. Looking for a fresh start, Ted moves his wife Janet, his teen  twins, Jared and Kim, and toddler Molly to the small town filled with  secrets. There he makes a deal that damns his soul. What ensues is a  classic good vs. evil tale.<br />John Saul is an incredible writer. I was  captivated by THE BLACKSTONE CHRONICLES. However, RIGHT HAND failed to  maintain my interest for the majority of the book. The characters are  cliched, the small town is unsurprisingly suspicious and close-minded, and  the evil that lurks in the basement has been written, in various forms, too  many times to list. Saul fairly accurately depicts what it's like to live  with an alcoholic; I think the emotional tension between the family members  is the best element of the novel. I kept reading expecting something to  happen; there were several build-ups that simply went nowhere. The climax  is quick, almost an afterthought. Saul's mastery of words is evident  throughout this novel; he has a great talent for beautifully written  scenes. But, unfortunately, RIGHT HAND does not deliver the punch I  expected; it could be renamed Right Hand of Some Kinda Bad Stuff.	2000-06-07
US	51701856	R350G3V2Y97OJ	0312193513	554035045	Vespers	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Great cover art	Anyone who reads horror, fantasy, sci fi, etc. understands that disbelief has to be suspended to a point in order to truly enjoy the story. I picked up VESPERS for a few reasons: 1) the summary made it seem like a fun, light  read; 2)I like bats; 3) I like the idea of Manhattan being under attack  from anything at all. The novel does a great job of providing some  education about bat evolution, biology and behavior. The cover art on this  hardcover edition is some of the finest I've ever seen.<br /> With that  said....This story is VERY light. I started out suspending disbelief and  ended up watching my disbelief swinging from the gallows. The plot is  rather thin, but I suppose that is to be expected from what is essentially  a movie script. Detective Gentry and &quot;bat lady&quot; Dr. Nancy Joyce  end up investigating the sudden appearance of and attacks by what are  normally docile brown bats. They end up uncovering an ecological disaster  that spawned a hellish form of bat. The next step is to figure out how to  save Manhattan from becoming the nesting and feeding ground for these  predators.  Miraculously, Dr. Joyce and Det. Gentry feel that tug of  attraction for each other and spend much of the novel gushing about their  feelings of newfound love. Hmmmm...<br /> If you want a light, quick read  that doesn't require you to think too much, this is a great book. I've  recommended it to some (much) younger readers who truly enjoyed the novel.  However, if you're just curious about the contents, you might want to  borrow a copy or find it at the library rather than investing the dollars  to buy your very own. MIMIC and RELIC might be wiser choices if you want to  read about scary, bizarre attacking creatures.	2000-06-05
US	51701856	R1MIN8GE0UGRQN	0786702885	416168960	Act of Love	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	Gritty, gory, gripping	Turn on a light and check all your locks. You'll need that sense of security while reading this novel. We're so numb to serial killer fiction at this point that it's difficult to remember a time when this genre was  relatively unknown. ACT is one of the first, and Lansdale adds his  incredible touch to make it a unique and chilling novel of a horrific  killer and the men trying to catch him.<br /><br />Lansdale doesn't ease into  this subject: the first few pages describe a grotesque murder, the first of  the &quot;Houston Hacker&quot;, a self-proclaimed hunter of women. Enter  Marvin Hanson and Joe Clark as the cops assigned to solve the series of  grisly murders. Hanson is a unique character for horror fiction: he's a  black cop in the South. He's disgusted by the murders and takes on a  personal vendetta against the Hacker. Lansdale leads the reader on to  various possibilities as to the identity of the killer without totally  giving away anything until near the end. Do not doubt: this novel is not  for the squeamish. Lansdale never pulls any punches in his novels; these  murders are grotesque. The novel is packed with scenes depicting racial and  gender hatred so prevalent in society; there are loads of racial slurs  between some of the characters. If you can read this without cringing,  check your pulse.<br /><br />Lansdale is always worth the read. He's a master  storyteller. This edition is especially worth it for the intro written by  Andrew Vachss as well as the afterword written by Lansdale himself; he  explains how the novel came into being, and it's an interesting saga.	2000-06-02
US	51701856	R2YM6KNNHYPJE0	156521014X	667344556	Masques, vol. 1, no. 2	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Beautiful	I don't normally buy graphic novels. Nothing at all against them, I'm just not into that medium. However, I am pleased to add MASQUES book 2 to my collection. This slim volume contains 3 short stories, each presented in  wonderfully illustrated styles by different artists. The first story is  &quot;Better Than One&quot; by Paul Dale Anderson. It's a taut little tale  with only one character....well, only one body, that is. &quot;If You Take  My Hand, Son&quot; by Mort Castle is a disturbing little story following  Johnny's thoughts as he withers in a coma; it'll make you think about  &quot;going into the light&quot; a bit differently. And finally  &quot;Popsy&quot; by Stephen King has that Tales From the Crypt feel to it  as well as a nice moral tale to teach us to be nicer to kids. I truly  wasn't sure what to expect when I ordered this, but it really brought home  my childhood days when I used to curl up with a good comic book. The art is  beautiful, the stories are chilling, and the writing is superb. I'm glad I  ordered this!	2000-05-30
US	51701856	RLKEGHGYFLLV2	0316690619	95144783	Cradle and All	Books	3	41	45	N	N	Mixed review	I've been hooked on James Patterson since I read KISS THE GIRLS. He typically does a wonderful job with character development and suspense. CRADLE has all of the Patterson elements: notoriously short chapters,  quickly defined characters, alternating first and third person narration.  All in all this is a decent read.<br /><br />The storyline revolves around  the question of how the world would react to the news of a modern-day  immaculate conception. Anne Fitzgerald is called in by the Archdiocese to  provide an objective investigation into a reported virgin pregnancy. She  walks in expecting an easy assignment and instead ends up testing her own  faith. Along the way, we're introduced to Nicholas Rosetti, a strong priest  sent in to unravel the mystery of two young women claiming to be virgins  despite their pregnancies. He believes one will bear the saviour of man,  the other will bear the child of satan. The story moves rather slowly  through most of the book; it focuses on outlining the media frenzy building  around one of the virgins as well as the scapegoating endured by the other  virgin. The last quarter of the book builds to a quick climax with an  ending that makes the reading worthwhile. It also leaves the question: when  is the sequel?  Overall, I enjoyed the book. It's a very quick, easy read  (at just over 300 pages, I polished this off in a few hours), it addresses  some rather heavy spiritual issues, but it delivers a story without being  &quot;preachy&quot;. I wouldn't qualify this as one of Patterson's best  works; it's more like &quot;Patterson-Lite&quot;. The novel exemplifies his  earlier abilities, but overall, I enjoyed it.	2000-05-30
US	51701856	R28QNTDR5DVAFL	0684855631	430524886	The Empty Chair	Books	4	78	79	N	N	Deaver does it again	Deaver has managed to do something remarkable in modern literature: create a unique &quot;crime-solving&quot; team with interesting, complex characters and detailed forensic information. Whenever you read a Deaver  novel be prepared for intense scene and character descriptions; Deaver  definitely does his research and it shows throughout all his novels.<br /><br />In EMPTY CHAIR, Lincoln Rhyme and Amelia Sachs are back, and they get  pulled into a North Carolina murder/kidnapping investigation. Out of their  element in this strange land, Rhyme and Sachs nevertheless persevere to  help local authorities track the Insect Boy who is thought responsible for  some creative and vicious murders as well as the recent kidnappings of two  young women. Will they track down the Insect Boy in time to save his  victims? What is great about this novel is that the plot is multi-layered;  don't settle in thinking this mystery is going to be neatly wrapped up in  100 pages! There are several twists and turns, and you'll be as surprised  as Rhyme when Sachs suddenly seems to turn to the wrong side of the law.  This novel is pure Deaver. The forensics are fascinating, and the  characters are well-developed. The &quot;empty chair&quot; symbol takes on  various meanings throughout the novel. We've waited a while to see Rhyme  and Sachs back in action, and this one is worth the wait.	2000-05-29
US	51701856	R2GGHI5HAIHQHP	0963397001	609167266	TELEPATH'S DON'T NEED SAFEWORDS	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Excellent writing	I've always liked Cecilia Tan's writing which is almost poetic at times. This little pamphlet collection of short stories focuses on BDSM, fantasy, and erotica with just a splash of horror for good measure. &quot;Telepaths  Don't Need Safewords&quot; is self-explanatory: if you can read each  other's minds, there's no need to establish a safe word! &quot;Cat Scratch  Fever&quot; is a beautiful, haunting tale (no pun intended) of a rather  interesting love match. And &quot;Heart's Desire&quot; tracks Cleo's  attraction to and love for another's sub. All in all, this collection is  beautifully written, entertaining, and downright erotic. Tan's skills shine  throughout. I enjoyed reading this and am quite glad I ordered it.	2000-05-27
US	51701856	RW5B80PCGY641	0812521102	905161115	Flesh	Books	4	33	34	N	N	Like watching a train wreck	Sometimes you read for deep enlightenment, for knowledge or just to broaden your horizons. Sometimes you read just to have fun. FLESH definitely qualifies under the last category! Any of Laymon's books is an  automatic ticket on a non-stop thrill ride. You might get those butterflies  in your stomach before you start, you might even feel a bit queasy before  the ride's over, but you're going to rush to the end of the line to ride it  again and again.<br /><br />FLESH introduces a whole crowd of characters  beginning with Eddie who is cruising back roads in his van for his next  victim. Eddie ends up a bit crispy, but what happens after that is  absolutely fascinating. Seems that dear Eddie was not acting alone; he was  the host for something that compels humans to turn cannibal. The whole  novel follows the leap of this &quot;something&quot; from person to person,  hideous murders, creepy abandoned buildings with danger at every corner and  one cop's relentless pursuit of the weird killer. Along the way, Alison  becomes an unsuspecting target, and the reader is treated to scene after  scene of nightmarish proportions. (&quot;Ron lifted his head. A bleeding  patch of his wife's flesh came with it...He calmly chewed. Then he reached  back for the shotgun.&quot;)<br /><br />FLESH is typical Laymon. It's gritty,  it's fast-paced, it's filled with gore and sex. However, Laymon has a great  feel for suspense and mystery; there are segments here that had me checking  over my shoulder every few seconds. I got a bit fed up with reading  constantly about Alison's dilemma over whether or not to have sex with her  boyfriend, but all in all, this was one heck of a good read! Don't pick  this one up if you are the least bit squeamish...there's a lot of graphic  gore and quite a bit of sex (which isn't as graphic as the gore). But if  you like good, solid horror, check this one out along with any of Laymon's  other titles.	2000-05-27
US	51701856	R16A9YT83P7JX	1557737223	926704045	Soul Snatchers	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Makes you look at Grandpa a little differently....	Successful New York journalist, Elaine Prescott, finally takes a much-needed vacation to visit her elderly aunt in  Eden's Bluff. She's been through some traumatic events covering the activities and capture of a  crazed serial killer in NYC, and she's hoping to recharge in the quaint  town. She arrives to find that the local geriatrics are killing themselves.  She then stumbles upon the history of the first citizens of the area; some  of whom were chased out for their &quot;unchristian&quot; beliefs. But she  never imagined what she would finally discover of the town's secrets.<br /><br /> This is my second Cecilione novel. He makes writing look easy! His  words seem to flow, and he creates incredible word pictures. This novel is  especially chilling not for gore or for crazed monsters, but because it  constantly addresses our fears of losing our youth, our health, our looks,  and of what happens once we die. Cecilione blends corpses, Egyptian  mythology, fears of death and small-town suspicions to create a disturbing  little novel. It's a quick read both because of it's short length as well  as it's fast pace. If you haven't read Cecilione, grab some of his works  now! I also highly recommend THIRST.	2000-05-26
US	51701856	R3I4IRAMOHNAVU	0385247567	554789051	Dark Matter	Books	1	7	18	N	N	Straight to the donation box	I had a love/hate relationship with this novel. I gleefully cringed through the opening sequence of brain surgery (sans operating room). I enjoyed the descriptions of the maniacally brilliant killer. I even enjoyed  the mix of sci fi and fantasy with the horror theme. However, this one  eventually lost my interest by bringing in far too many unimportant  elements. DARK MATTER just never comes through with a punch. It delivers  gore to the max and has a potentially fiendish villain, but it fizzles  before it really gets to the point. I was, needless to say, quite  disappointed.<br /><br /> One of the cover reviews for this book describes it  as &quot;a character portrait of a copletely amoral serial killer to rival  Thomas Harris's RED DRAGON...&quot; Do yourself a favor: read RED DRAGON  instead; it's beautifully written and amazingly chilling.	2000-05-26
US	51701856	R2DUJCTE64IQHE	078670442X	8097352	The Drive-In: A Double Feature Omnibus	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Comets and popcorn and suicide trees, oh my...	This book is flat-out hilarious! One day Jack and his friends are typical boys on the verge of adulthood, the next they are caught in a nightmarish, other world created when a comet near-misses the drive in where they are  enjoying an all night horror show. Stuck in the dark world of the drive in,  watching only violent bloody horror movies over and over, eating only  concession-stand food, Jack narrates a world that is terrifying but not  without its humor. And that's just part one of this incredible tale. It  continues with our intrepid heroes getting out of the drive-in to explore  the next evolution of their new world. (a world in which a baby dinosaur is  automatically named Toothy before it gobbles down an unburied corpse) It  would take me too long to describe the numerous quirky, scary and surreal  characters and happenings in this omnibus. I was glued to this book until I  finished it. It's hilarious, it's surreal, it's chilling, and I kept  shaking my head saying &quot;no way!&quot; before I plunged right into the  next chapter.<br />Lansdale is one of the few authors who can take grisly  events and plant a sarcastic, hilarious slant to them. And succeed! I  laughed out loud throughout while also cringing from some of the word  pictures Lansdale creates here. Make no mistake, this is horror at its  best. But it's also a witty look at what happens to us when we lose the  most basic of worldly trappings. Reading Lansdale is always like stepping  into a roller-coaster world, and any of his books are more than worth your  time.	2000-05-26
US	51701856	R19BF8DGPJK3HO	0786010908	550785290	Haunted	Books	2	11	14	N	Y	If Harlequin published horrror....	Ok, let me get this straight. A suddenly famous, heartbroken, somewhat bumbling yet quite lovable horror author, moves with his sarcastic, overly mature teen daughter into the quaint town of Red Cay, California. There  they take up residence in an infamous haunted house so that said writer can  gather info for his next bestseller. Sceptical writer and daughter (David  and Amber Masters) then meet up with supernatural beings that soon convince  them that the house's reputation is deserved. THEN we find out that not  only is the house haunted, it is haunted by Elizabeth and Christabel Baudy  (mother and daughter). A century ago, Christabel's daddy, a voodoo priest,  taught her all his voodoo secrets so that she became a voodoo priestess.  THEN while still alive, Christabel begins a very petulent reign of terror  ending in the massacre of several people and the suicide of her mother.  Flash to present day when the Masters family has to cope with and overcome  the increasingly powerful Christabel. Throw in some new-agers who channel  spirits, snoopy small-town gossips, and the slow but charming local boy who  is especially sensitive to the spirits. Are you with me so far?<br /><br />I  like a good ghost story. I read some positive reviews of this novel, the  description seemed interesting, so I thought I would give it a try. I must  say that it was a chore for me to continue after the first 50 pages of this  nearly 480-page book. There are some amusing and interesting segments of  the novel; I especially like the opening sequence with the two curious boys  exploring the haunted lighthouse. However, each character is rather  one-dimensional, playing to stereotype. The evil spirit overall just isn't  that scary; she was a lusty creature in life and spends most of the novel  as a succubus for David. I found the novel taking a great deal of time to  explain very unimportant details of each and every event in the history of  the town and the house. The end climax is quick and disappointing. I like  the premise of this story. But it gets lost in the unending telling of  simple daily events in the characters' lives. Unfortunately, for me, the  novel never lives up to its potential. The novel does have a sweet love  story; it has some humor; it has bodice-ripping; it has scheming  matchmakers. Actually, take away some of the gore, and HAUNTED just might  make a decent romance novel.disappointing. I like  the premise of this story. But it gets lost in the unending telling of  simple daily events in the characters' lives. Unfortunately, for me, the  novel never lives up to its potential. The novel does have a sweet love  story; it has some humor; it has bodice-ripping; it has scheming  matchmakers. Actually, take away some of the gore, and HAUNTED just might  make a decent romance novel.	2000-05-24
US	51701856	RBTMEFYXFKHIA	0886778794	23361611	The Flesh, the Blood, and the Fire	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Crossing genres	This one will thrill mystery, history and horror buffs alike. Swiniarski creates characters, both human and undead, who are fascinating, realistic and dynamic. He also calls upon history to set a chilling background: the  unsolved Cleveland Torso Murders, the media-frenzied career of Eliot Ness,  and the mix of emotions surrounding the Depression and the world at war.<br /><br /> The novel takes a look at the unsolved series of murders in the  30's and asks &quot;what if they weren't solved because the killer wasn't  human?&quot; Enter Stefan Ryzard; he's one of a few Cleveland cops who  isn't corrupt. He does his job well all the while playing the dark,  brooding cop with a sad history (dead wife and child). Along with his  partner, Nuri Lapidos, he sets out to find out who is decapitating the  locals. The body count rises, Eliot Ness is assigned as Safety Director to  try to clean up the law enforcement and &quot;fix&quot; crime, and Stefan  figures out that the killer isn't your average sick madman. What he  uncovers is a secret vampire society regulated by a Covenant now broken by  an old nemesis who is hell-bent on world domination. Our main vamp just  happens to be as good with a sword as he is with his fangs. This is a  roller-coaster read that is quite often downright chilling. The vampires  are hungry. Dingy, nighttime Cleveland is creepy. And actual history morphs  with an alternate reality to create quite a unique horror novel.<br /><br />  Don't read this if you want a fast, in-your-face slasher novel! This isn't  it. There are a lot of characters to track, and Swiniarski does a  remarkable job of giving us just enough information along the way until all  the pieces fall into place. This is a great one for any fan of vampire  fiction. But if you like good, solid horror that actually provides a  surprising twist, get this now!	2000-05-21
US	51701856	R30YV7VM9YJ2VM	0671877216	683362821	One Foot in the Grave	Books	5	105	107	N	Y	Bought it on a whim	I like the cover art on this paperback as well as the description of it as &quot;Dracula meets the Godfather&quot;. I figured it would be good for some cheesy vampire action; you know, one of those books you have to read  because it's so laughingly bad. I'm pleased to say I was completely wrong!<br /><br /> The novel begins with Chris Csejthe trying to find a cure for the  mysterious disease that started to plague him shortly after the deaths of  his wife and daughter. Chris, who narrates the story, then finds himself in  the middle of a bizarre life-or-death situation while two powerful vampire  &quot;families&quot; (in the mob sense) fight over him. Turns out Chris is  in the middle of vampire transformation; neither human nor vampire, Chris  begins an adventure of discovering who he is, testing his new powers, and  solving the mystery of the tragedy that took the people he loved. Along the  way he meets Dr. Mooncloud, Bassarab, Lupe, Suki, Elizabeth, and a whole  slew of other-worldly creatures such as elves, goblins, dryads, nagas,  knockers, sprites, and many others. All the while, he narrates the events  around him with sarcastic humor, literary references and some healthy  wariness. Any vampire novel that can weave an enchanting tale of an  alternate history such as this while quoting Sappho, Yeats, Victor Hugo,  Donne, Wordsworth, Oscar Wilde etc. deserves more recognition! Simmons has  created a fascinating world filled with funny, intelligent characters. The  dialogue is snappy, the plot is filled with twists and turns, the story is  suspenseful, and the book itself is impossible to put down. I am so  pleasantly surprised by this novel, and I sincerely hope that Simmons will  revisit these characters and give us a sequel! I found this book in the  fantasy/sci-fi section, but it easily crosses into horror, humor, drama as  well. It has something for everyone: humor, action (you'll find lots of  weapons and methods of killing without intense graphic gore), suspense,  mystery, fantasy. Buy it, you won't be disappointed.spense,  mystery, fantasy. Buy it, you won't be disappointed.	2000-05-14
US	51701856	R1RB94XZWRIV37	0671024817	332301994	Wither	Books	4	4	4	N	N	More than just a witch story	Ok, I picked this one up after hearing several rave reviews. I wasn't disappointed. The novel flows steadily from page one. It has all the elements of a good, sturdy page-turner: evil forces at work in a small  town, grotesque beings out for nightly feedings, a somewhat naive young  witch coming to terms with her own power, a town's secret history coming  back to haunt the residents, and a non-stop air of suspense to keep you  reading long into the night.<br /><br />All seems well in the quiet college  town of Windale. Residents are gearing up for the annual Halloween  celebration that milks the New England town's history of a notorious witch  hanging. There's only one problem: the witches didn't really die the first  time around and now it's their turn to flex some supernatural muscle. Enter  Wendy (the good witch), Karen (pregnant with her first child) and  8-year-old Abby who has one of the most irresponsible fathers in all of  literary history. They are the unsuspecting targets of the local evil  witches who have now evolved into powerful, hungry, flying beings. Throw in  some gruesome murders, some magical spells and some small-town hysteria,  and you have a formula for mayhem.<br /><br />WITHER is horror lite. It's a  quick, easy read with a strong storyline. I liked the characters, I liked  the monsters and I liked the combination of telling the history of the  witches through dream sequences as well as present-day happenings.  WITHER  reads like a movie script but has the suspense to keep it going. It's worth  the read!	2000-05-12
US	51701856	R3E5SX61WZQOGA	0786004800	992322112	Bad Karma	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Till death do us part	Don't start this one unless you have an entire afternoon for it! If not, you'll be late for every appointment because it's impossible to put down.<br /><br /> Trey Campbell takes a much-needed family vacation on beautiful  Catalina Island. Sounds cozy. But Trey is a psych tech at a hospital for  the criminally insane, and a particularly brilliant, particularly psychotic  patient of his escapes (after some gruesome on-site activities). Psychotic  Agnes goes in search of Trey who is the object of her affection; she's  convinced they've shared past lives and it is their destiny to be together  once again. Imagine &quot;Fatal Attraction&quot; with a female Hannibal  Lecter. Trey scrambles to protect his family from the killer he once  thought could be saved from herself. Douglas Clegg once again pulls  together some chilling elements to create a fast-paced, roller coaster  thriller. Wait till you see how a notorious English serial killer figures  into all this. This one is a fun, quick read!	2000-05-11
US	51701856	R1EKBBSEBT84WM	0440214696	658413978	Making Love	Books	2	3	3	N	N	A good man is hard to find...um, make...	Hmmmm...well, this is certainly an interesting premise. A kinky prometheus one ups his mistress. Tem and Holder write with an eloquence that is often lacking in modern-day horror; the novel is worth a look just based on  that.<br /> Now for the rest of the story. Lonely, codependent, dysfunctional  Charlotte Tobias, knocking on the door of middle aged spinsterhood, ends up  creating, literally, her ideal lover in Phanes. Lonely no more, Charlotte  at first rejoices in her creation, revelling in Phanes' discovery of the  world around him, and of their explorations of each other. He's gorgeous,  he shares her interests, he's sensitive, he's a nonstop love machine. What  more could a gal want? Unfortunately for Charlotte, &quot;be careful what  you wish for&quot; is the moral of this little fable. Phanes becomes  increasingly out of control. More and more bizarre creations pop up and are  destroyed. Charlotte slowly slips into madness. Phanes wreaks evil all  around her. In short, she created her dream man but forgot to give him a  soul.<br /> Again, the writing is haunting, even beautiful at times. The  basic idea is captivating. But I had to keep forcing myself to finish this  novel. It didn't pack the punch to keep my interest for very long. I'm not  as familiar with Holder, but Tem's work is usually worth checking out. This  one is a toss-up; you might want to find it at the library rather than  making the investment.	2000-05-11
US	51701856	R1VI8YSF4SY0SW	0553574353	741841636	Helter Skelter: The True Story Of The Manson Murders	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Disturbingly real	I have a love/hate relationship with this novel: it remains the one work that has frightened and disturbed me more than any other novel, and it is the reason I stopped reading true crime accounts! I find that I can handle  even the most bizarre horror novel over the true evils that human beings  actually commit.<br /><br />I think we will always have a fascination with  the Manson Family and their acts. The Tate/LaBianca murders remain some of  the most bizarre and violent acts this country has ever seen. Bugliosi  paints a realistic portrait of Manson's childhood, his gathering of his  &quot;family&quot; and of the final murders themselves. It is chilling, it  is disturbing. I will forever carry the image of Manson and his followers  &quot;creepy crawling&quot; through people's houses (I slept quite  restlessly for weeks after reading this). Bugliosi does not romanticize  these people. Manson and his followers are presented as the disturbed,  disillusioned people that they were/are. If you like true crime, if you are  at all interested in Manson, and if you have nerves of steel, I recommend  this one as one of the best true-crime accounts ever written.	2000-05-08
US	51701856	R1SANKL2FXD3A7	0451200152	728640065	The Town	Books	4	29	32	N	Y	Good solid horror!	I devoured this one in one sitting. Little strikes again with a pulse-pounding thriller set in the small Arizona town of McGuane. The Tomasov family hits the lottery, pulls up big-city stakes and returns to  the hometown of the father, Gregory. But like every good horror thriller,  the family fails to heed the warnings of the elderly wise woman, Babunya  (the Tomasov matriarch). What could go wrong if the family failed to invite  the Owner of the House? Gregory and his wife, Julia, shrug this off as  another of Babunya's silly superstitions. Unfortunately for everyone, when  the Tomasov's arrive, the town becomes more and more crazy. Bizarre deaths,  strange sightings, and more than one thing that goes bump in the night  plague the citizens. (Wait till you see what Gregory's friend, Odd, has  waiting for him at home.) Throughout is an undercurrent of mistrust for  anyone who is considered different; the Tomasov's are Molokans, a Russian  religious and social community, and this group has historically been  scapegoated within the larger McGuane community. Several themes are at work  here: our natural distrust of change and difference, faith, evil, revenge,  and on and on. I found myself alternating between cheering for and booing  various characters; as each faces the evil let loose in the town, he/she  begins to change. All I can say is, don't get too attached to some of these  characters!<br /><br />I've now read 6 of Little's novels. I've liked each  one for different reasons. However, I've often gotten to the end of his  novels thinking &quot;Big build-up, let-down of a climax.&quot; I'm happy  to report that THE TOWN delivers all the way to the end. It's a fun read  (with very disturbing issues), it's a quick read, and some of the everyday  objects turned into the macabre were enough to give me goosebumps! I  recommend this one to anyone who likes good, chilling horror. After this,  you might want to check out THE IGNORED by Little.	2000-05-08
US	51701856	R1KK51BDEG9SDU	0812533682	920956156	Jackals	Books	4	0	0	N	N	&quot;Lord, parts of her were gone.&quot;	JACKALS is a gem of a horror novel. It is filled with vivid, haunting images that kept me turning page after page to reach the end. Brooding hero  Jim Scott reminds me of the dark, take-charge Ethan Proctor, investigator  extraordinaire in Grant's later BLACK OAK series. Filled with chilling  little one-liner paragraphs such as &quot;Something reached them on the  wind&quot; this little novel is sure to crawl under your skin.<br /><br />Scott hunts the jackals. That's what he's done since the heartbreaking  loss of his beloved sister to one of their packs. Convinced that there is  still something human about these jackals, Scott grapples with some guilt  over murdering them, but along with the help of other hunters (Maurice is a  particularly intriguing character), he is determined to prevent the jackals  from destroying more lives. The novel begins with a bloody and beaten  Rachel literally crawling her way to Scott's cabin for help. From then on,  the novel never stops delivering with haunting writing and nightmarish  visuals. Grant is one of the masters of the genre; he relies on our own  fears rather than basic gross-out value to scare the reader. If you haven't  read Grant, do so now! You won't regret it.	2000-05-08
US	51701856	R1LB5M1ZM7RCV2	0843946954	859692408	You Come When I Call You	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	You tell me? Am I dead?	Ok, this one is filled with chills! Clegg does it once again. He manages to fill a horror novel with beautiful prose, mind-grabbing images, unique characters and a fast-building plot. His ability to tell stories within  stories shines through in this one.<br /><br />This is a good-vs-bad tale on  the epic level. But just who is good and who is bad? It's not all that  clear cut. Peter and Alison, now adults, flash back on horrific events  taking place in their adolescence. Peter's discovery in an LA bungalow was  enough to keep me glued to this novel and to avoid my basement for a few  days. Along the way, we get introduced to Charlie (aka, Deadrats...I want  more of this character!), Nessie, Stella, The Juicer, Than, Diego, Kevin  and wonderfully written Wendy. We also get a glimpse into the small-town  life of the young characters with visions of domestic violence, substance  abuse, dog fighting, greed...all the seemingly &quot;mundane&quot; forms of  evil that help contribute to the power of the demon lamia. We also find  Stella who, in her old age, grapples with the guilt of incest, murder, and  her part in the birthing of a demon. I raced through the novel to see if  and how these characters respond to the demon that calls them, and how the  evil is destroyed (or is it?).<br /><br />It's not often that I find horror  novels that combine effective, beautiful writing with images that  absolutely creep under the skin! If you are trying to decide whether or not  to read this one, do it! If you have read this and want more Clegg, I also  highly recommend THE NIGHTMARE CHRONICLES.	2000-05-08
US	51701856	RUVSPXQ99K4DJ	0451192583	284706036	The Ignored	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Never be picked last for a team again!	Whew! Little takes on the premise that there are those of us so ordinary that we become virtually invisible to the world around us. Bob Jones (average name, average guy) is one such person. At first he is annoyed by  those who seem to just overlook him. Then he becomes more and more panicked  as he feels himself fading out of sight. Until he finds a group of  &quot;ignored&quot; who are in the same boat. I, for one, had an evil  chuckle over the ritual each prospective group member goes through in order  to be considered one of the ignored! (I don't know one of us who hasn't had  some type of morbid revenge fantasy against our boss.)<br /><br />This novel  builds and builds. I had to keep reading to find out how Bob comes to terms  with his past, his place in society and with the increasingly  out-of-control actions of his new friends. The novel takes on an  &quot;otherworld&quot; quality toward the end and slides into the  fantastic. However, Little does wonderful things with the main idea; I  alternately felt pity, understanding and contempt for the characters. This  novel should be read by anyone who has ever felt &quot;invisible&quot;.	2000-05-08
US	51701856	R17P4RUBQKKUQ7	0380792737	416150558	Island of the Sequined Love Nun	Books	5	18	20	N	Y	Laugh-out-loud hilarious	Christopher Moore has to be one of the most brilliantly bizarre people on the planet. Either he was dropped on his head as a small child or he was touched by the literary gods (I'm betting both). Moore does it once again  in ISLAND. He presents quirky characters, a zany plot and absolutely  hilarious dialogue. I couldn't put this book down! I carried it with me  everywhere until I finished it, and I often was the object of curious  stares as I guffawed my way through the reading in public places.<br /><br /> Moore has a knack for creating the bizarre. Tucker Case, hero of  ISLAND, finds himself in a &quot;sticky&quot; situation (you'll understand  the pun once you read the novel) one evening while &quot;entertaining&quot;  a young lady in the cockpit of his plane. From there on, the novel is  nonstop hilarity as Case first runs away from the law and then has to run  for his life. He finds himself on an island with natives fascinated by  Americana, bored druggie pseudo-missionaries out to exploit the island, and  a transvestite with a sunglass-wearing bat as a pet. Case just wants to  save his hide but finds himself as the hero time and again.<br /><br />It's  difficult to place Moore into any particular genre. Part fantasy, part  comedy, part sci fi, part horror, part drama....If you read nothing else  this year, pick up any of Moore's novels. All of them are well worth your  time.	2000-05-08
US	51701856	RIFKSAR55CQTG	0440217717	812186167	Twists of the Tale: An Anthology of Cat Horror	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Purrrfect anthology (can't resist the pun)	24 stories. All cat related. Some charming, some humorous, all somewhat twisted. This collection has something for the cat lover and the cat phobic alike: pieces that confirm both opinions of our feline friends.<br /><br />  Whenever you see Ellen Datlow's name on an anthology, buy it. She pulls  together phenomenal writers with samples of their best writing. In TWISTS,  you'll find King, Douglas Clegg, Joyce Carol Oates, Tanith Lee, Kathe Koja,  Steven Spruill, William S. Burroughs among others. Clegg's &quot;The  Five&quot; is an absolutely disturbing tale of a little girl obsessed with  the kittens trapped in the wall. &quot;I Gatti di Roma&quot; by Sarah  Clemons tells about regret, redemption, revenge. &quot;Marigold  Outlet&quot; by Nancy Kress is a sad, haunting portrait of child abuse.  This is a horror collection with stories that gross out, that haunt, that  terrify. It is a superb anthology with quick stories for the horror fan.	2000-05-08
US	51701856	R2IW99I55GR0U5	0553270109	67741254	Exorcist, The	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Surprisingly disappointing	Over the years I've viewed &quot;The Exorcist&quot; numerous times. It has never failed to disturb me, and I find myself vowing never to watch it again only to return to it time after time. But I had never read the novel.  It's a classic, so it must be good, right? I have to admit, I like Blatty's  screenplay better.<br /><br />It's extremely rare for me that I prefer a  movie over the novel. I like reading and sorting things out for myself.  There is nothing creepier than what my imagination can lend to a reading. I  certainly liked this novel, but I found the writing to be rather pulpish.  Perhaps my expectations were so high that nothing would possibly have met  them. Perhaps I expected some sort of revelation not found in the movie  version. I don't know. The dialogue seemed wooden and superficial at times.  I was surprised at the lack of dimension in the characters. True, the novel  reveals character motivations and mythical background that aren't provided  in the movie. However, I was surprised at the writing style, and by the  fact that less than halfway into the book, I wanted to quit reading.  Obviously I am in the minority! Most people seem to like the novel version.  You'll have to see for yourself.	2000-05-08
US	51701856	R3VP0QAFNJLKPC	006105366X	237718280	My Soul to Keep (African Immortals series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fantastic read	This is my first novel by Ms. Due and is most certainly not my last. Due's writing is melodic and haunting. I found the passages depicting an on-the-surface peaceful and joyful life torn apart by fantastic  circumstances to be gut-wrenching. The novel addresses issues of  immortality, faith, parenting, inner strength. It is suspenseful and  frightening. I had to keep reading to find out how Jessica deals with the  frightening truth about her husband Dawit. Will she keep their daughter,  Kira, safe? The best part about this novel: I actually cared what happened  to the characters. This one is a great read for anyone who appreciates fine  writing.	2000-05-08
US	51701856	R1BPX8BYYBNDSH	0670823074	587534185	Nightmares in the Sky: Gargoyles and Grotesques	Books	4	41	41	N	N	Photography, gothic architecture and King....	I'm surprised to read that this is a hard-to-find book; I still occasionally find copies of it in the bargain bins of large booksellers. That will probably change now that the paperback version is being released.<br /><br />I really like this book. The photos are simple, but they capture  the beauty and mystique of gargoyle images throughout New York and other  American cities. I must admit, I bought this bargain book because Stephen  King's name was on the cover and because I thought it was a quirky addition  to my book collection. However, once I brought it home and started flipping  through the pages, I was captivated by the grainy, sometimes eerie images.  King's words add some interesting views and anecdotes, but the book stands  alone just on Fitzgerald's photos. Some of the gargoyles are menacing, some  are macabre, some are playful and some are downright comical. All of them  attest to the creativity and imagination of their creators.<br /><br />This  hardcover, 128-page (or so) volume would be right at home on your coffee  table (it's an awkward size to try to squeeze into most standard  bookshelves). King's writing shares page space for about 35 pages; the book  is focused on the pics (as it should be). It's not for everyone; if you  don't like &quot;picture books&quot; then stay away. But if you like  interesting photos capturing a unique subject, and/or if you are at all a  Stephen King fan, this is one to bring home.	2000-05-05
US	51701856	RQCF2AHBVGKDA	0385185499	816256819	Masterpieces of Terror and the Supernatural: A Treasury of Spellbinding Tales Old and New	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Mind-boggling collection	This is an absolute treasure! Stoker, Lovecraft, Poe, Shelley, Asimov, Bierce, Tolkien are all here. You'll also find Richard Matheson, Tanith Lee, Sheridan LeFanu, Orson Scott Card (with one of the most disturbing, chilling tales I've ever read), Ogden Nash, Tennessee Williams, Jack  London, Walt Whitman (is this high-school english class! ), Robert Bloch  and more. Each selection comes with a little background note providing some  info about the author, history about that particular story and  recommendations for other related readings. This collection is fantastic;  it doesn't disappoint. English class would have been infinitely more  interesting with this kind of reading!	2000-05-04
US	51701856	R2I48DOPOG80RX	0312144350	186146521	Topping from Below: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great murder mystery/psychological thriller	Get ready for a glimpse into the seedier aspects of BDSM. Laura Reese uses simple but powerful writing to bring the reader vivid images of one sister's grief, self-search, guilt and immersion into a part of her psyche she never knew existed. The novel alternates chapters telling the story of  shy Franny with chapters narrated by older sister Nora who is intent on  unravelling the mystery surrounding her sister's gruesome murder. When Nora  involves herself with M., Franny's former lover, she participates in a  lifestyle made riskier by her uncertainty of the killer's identity. The  writing is superb, the mystery is an attention-grabber, and the  psychological aspects of all the characters blend to make for great  reading. I found myself racing toward the end to find out if Nora ever  wreaks her vengeance, and if she works through some of her own issues. The  novel is erotic (with a capital E), suspenseful and even touching. Those  offended by images of intense sexuality and D/s would do better to read  something else! (And it may take a while for you to make eye contact with  your pet again) But this is great reading for anyone who can pick it up  with an open mind.	2000-05-02
US	51701856	R279DV0ALQ49OO	0843944390	109167304	The Halloween Man	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Intense images, great psychology	Ok, Clegg did it again....made me late for work while I rushed to the conclusion of this one! This is just my 2nd Clegg novel (so far), and I  find him to be one of the best storytellers in the business. In H. MAN,  Nora tells young Stony &quot;..the one thing you can be sure of about the  Devil: He's the reflection of what we want.&quot; This is certainly proven  true throughout this novel, and especially by the climax.<br /><br /> I  absolutely love to read stories within a story, and H. MAN does this  chillingly well. The novel opens with the adult Stony kidnapping the  mysterious young &quot;prophet.&quot; Then Clegg weaves memories of both  the young and the older Stony, narrowing each until the big finish. Along  the way, blind Nora tells some magnificent tales to Stony and his soul  mate, Lourdes. What unfolds is a chilling story about a small town  conspiracy, evil, greed, and faith. Stony and Lourdes love each other with  a gentle passion, but will that be enough to keep them together? How does  Stony finally discover his true self? Who is the little boy who seems to  know Stony better than he knows himself? What secrets does the Crown  mansion hold?<br /><br /> This is good reading! The opening scenes are  reminiscent of those in Straub's GHOST STORY (one of the greatest horror  novels ever written, in my most humble opinion). Nora is an incredible  character, and her fireside stories are enough to raise goosebumps on their  own. The ending was quite a bit different than I anticipated although not  surprising given Stony's nature. My question is: are we going to see more  of Stony and the quirky &quot;Steve&quot;, Mr. Clegg? Buy this novel now,  and then haunt amazon.com and used book stores to get all those  out-of-print/stock Clegg works!	2000-04-19
US	51701856	R1R5A69KC6JNA7	0441004520	84311395	The Killing Dance (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	101	107	N	Y	Clear the calendar--you'll read this one in one sitting!	I'm quickly making my way through the Anita Blake series. Any of these novels is a winner on its own, but you'll miss so much if you don't start at the beginning (GUILTY PLEASURES).<br /><br /> DANCE, in my humble opinion, is the best book thus far in the series. The main characters (Anita,  Jean-Claude, Richard, Edward) are much more developed, the relationships  between them all are so well written that you start to feel like you know  them. In DANCE, Anita faces the realization that a mysterious &quot;money  man&quot; has put out a huge contract for her death. With the help of her  friends (and I use that term for lack of a better word for these complex  characters), she battles her way through shapeshifters, shooters, makers of  shapeshifter-porno movies, vamps, psychopaths and cops. And then things get  strange.... Forever undaunted, Anita arms herself to the teeth to protect  her life as well as the &quot;lives&quot; of the men/undead/werewolf that  she loves.<br /><br />DANCE also brings Anita to some decisions regarding  her feelings for Jean-Claude, the seductive Master Vampire of the City, and  Richard, the potential alpha male of the local werewolf pack. Who will she  choose? Will she tell them both to take a hike? How will she reconcile her  own ambiguous feelings about what it means to be a monster and what it  means to be in love?<br /><br />All in all, this entire series is a great  ride. Anita narrates each story. She's petite, she's pretty, she's tough.  She doesn't need to be rescued because she's typically the one doing the  rescuing! She's a necromancer with incredible powers, and these powers are  more developed in DANCE through her relationship with Jean-Claude and  Richard. Laurell Hamilton introduces new characters and brings in some old  ones from prior novels. It's rather difficult to pin this series into one  genre. It's part romance, part mystery, part detective, part horror, part  gore, part vampire and all of the above. There's something here to please  almost everyone. These books are fun, they're scary, and I guarantee you'll  keep reading them to find out what happens next!e to please  almost everyone. These books are fun, they're scary, and I guarantee you'll  keep reading them to find out what happens next!	2000-04-11
US	51701856	R29FT9XV5PELLU	1567311199	21807981	The Haunted Omnibus	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A terrific ghost anthology	This is a hefty book touted as &quot;the greatest ghost stories of all time.&quot; The table of contents reads like a college literature course: Poe, Algernon Blackwood, John Collier, Richard Middleton, Ambrose Bierce,  Guy de Maupassant, Pliny the Younger, Robert Louis Stevenson, Saki, and  others. This effort brings together some of the all-time classical horror  literature, specifically literature dealing with death, ghosts, hauntings.  Don't go searching for King or Koontz or Barker. This one was first  copyrighted in 1937. But these stories continue to raise goosebumps.<br /><br />Charlotte Perkins Gilman is represented here with her short story  &quot;The Yellow Wall Paper.&quot; This is one of the most unsettling  stories I have ever read, relating the psychological terrors of a young  married woman. Taken to a country estate to summer &quot;for her own  good&quot; by her husband, the woman is forced to endure time in the house  nursery where she is convinced she sees a growing number of women creeping  around the ugly yellow wall paper on the scarred walls. This is the perfect  metaphor for repressed rage and frustration, and this story creeps under my  skin every time I read it. (Is it really the yellow wall paper the woman  peels off strip by strip or something more horrifying?)<br /><br />These 41  stories harken back to a time before &quot;splatter&quot; became a standard  in horror literature. These are great to tell by a fire on a cold night.  But this collection is also a look into some incredibly talented authors  who can still scare us in this &quot;enlightened&quot; time. There are  ghosts and monsters and goblins, grave robbers, reincarnated animals  (&quot;Laura&quot; by Saki is a tongue-in-cheek tale sure to elicit at  least a chuckle), and then even more ghosts. This is a wonderful collection  which belongs on the shelf of anyone who appreciates classic, well-written  ghost stories.	2000-04-07
US	51701856	R12ZRS41GTBLB8	0312868855	396467465	Hell House	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great ghost story	No doubt about it, Matheson is a master of horror. Matheson weaves a tale about Emeric Belasco, an angry, twisted man, who builds a temple of evil. As the story reads, all sorts of perversions took place in this house (some  of which are described here). Belasco revels in the activities of his  &quot;guests&quot; until all of them are found dead in his home; Belasco,  however, is never found. What happened to him?<br /> Fast forward to 1970.  An unlikely team of &quot;professionals&quot; are hired by an eccentric  millionaire to stay in Hell House for one week to either prove or disprove  some type of existence after death. Imagine Gilligan's Island with  Lovecraft as the writer and Poe as the director. Florence, a mental medium,  opens herself to one too many supernatural impressions. Ben, a physical  medium, just wants to collect his money and run. He once survived Hell  House and knows the horrors it holds. Lionel is an educated skeptic; he  sees this adventure as a chance to try out his invention which will prove  that supernatural phenomenon is all a product of the energy given off by  human beings rather than acts from beyond the grave. And then there is  Lionel's wife, Edith, who accompanies him to look out for him due to his  poor health; she gets more than she bargains for. This newest batch of  guests is subjected to all sorts of chilling terrors, all the while  fighting amongst themselves and confronting their own fears and doubts.<br /> Matheson is an expert story teller. Here he creates a creepy,  read-it-with-the-lights-on tale which will still leave you wondering: Are  there really ghosts or do we simply create these phenomenon from our  subconscious? There are some parts not suited for the extremely squeamish.  If you've seen the movie, be prepared for some graphic sex and violence  left out of the script! However, if you like solid, gothic ghost stories,  if you like classic horror and good writing, then you need to give this one  a read. Fans of Matheson know: read anything he writes. It's always a great  ride.heson know: read anything he writes. It's always a great  ride.	2000-04-04
US	51701856	R9OE8N8J8ERHX	0195115937	229224285	Blood Thirst: 100 Years of Vampire Fiction	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A must for horror/vampire fans	This novel brings together works of so many amazing talented writers: Stephen King, Richard Matheson, Anne Rice, Tanith Lee, Chelsea Quinn Yarbro, Algernon Blackwood, Joyce Carol Oates...just to name a few! Be on  the lookout for &quot;Count Dracula&quot; by Woody Allen; whether you love  him or hate him, this short story is a hoot!<br /><br />This one lets you  sink your teeth into some quick, sometimes chilling, sometimes humorous,  sometimes just plain weird vampire stories. It will also introduce you to  some incredible authors, and I bet you'll race to buy more of their works.  Wolf breaks down this collection into categories: The Classic Adventure  Tale; The Psychological Vampire; The Science Fiction Vampire; The Non-Human  Vampire; The Comic Vampire; and The Heroic Vampire. Horror and vampire fans  will recognize some of these stories (King's is an excerpt of SALEM'S LOT)  from other novels or collections. But this one is a tasty treat (yes, all  puns intended) that I found delightful!	2000-04-03
US	51701856	R2QWJRIV8GBYCY	0929480228	813744810	Savage Season	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	mellion108 from Michigan	Quick, gritty read: After hearing positive reviews about Joe Landsale, I decided togive this one a try. Landsdale does not dissapoint. His characters arerealistic and say things real people say. His writing is concise and fluid; this is such an easy read that I polished it off in one sitting. I simply had to find out how everything wrapped up! This is not a horror novel in the traditional sense but rather a crime/suspense novel.<br /><br />The narrator, Hap, and his friend Leonard wind up in a post-60's idealistic crime plot that sinks them deeper and deeper into trouble. Hap says of his ex-wife Trudy, the dame that leads them both astray, \\"last time she had come around and gone away, I had started on a monumental drunk that embarrassed the winos down at the highway mission.\\" You'd think he'd listen to Leonard who tells him that Trudy is \\"as fake as pro-wrestling.\\" But then you wouldn't get to read the rest of this roller coaster! This is one that will appeal to fans of a variety of genres. Horror, crime, detective, suspense...SAVAGE has it all along with some bitingly funny dialogue. MUCHO MOJO is the follow-up to SAVAGE. That's my next Lansdale stop.	2000-04-02
US	51701856	R3ITMPSJOJXRJG	0786010916	590501873	Thirst	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Great vamp reading	Cecilione's writing is wonderful. Reading this was almost like watching a movie. Cassandra Hall as the narrator/vampire makes for an interesting character. She takes us through a roller-coaster of emotions from the  somewhat shy, idealistic small-town girl in the big city to the jaded  experienced vampire fighting for survival. Each chapter alternates from pre  to post Cassandra-as-vampire until it finally reaches the present.<br /><br />In between, this novel introduces vampire and human charactes with all  their quirks. There are some interesting twists to the vamp myth, but  nothing too outrageous. This novel also pulls heavily from BDSM themes,  something rather unusual for &quot;mainstream&quot; novels. There is sex,  and a lot of it in a variety of ways. But, pardon the pun, it is mostly  done tastefully. LOL Don't get your hopes up; this isn't a porn novel, but  read it with an open mind regarding bondage and S/m as this is merely a way  to illustrate the lifestyle of the novel's vampires in their attempt to  simulate some human feelings or perhaps to revel in their immortality.<br /><br />I really enjoyed reading this novel. It is very well written, and I can  never resist a vampire novel anyway. If you are into the vamp genre, or if  you like intelligent, interesting horror, buy this now!	2000-04-02
US	51701856	R1A48H7D1DHWPF	0812545478	683578113	Dawn Song	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Thinking horror	It took me a while to get really &quot;into&quot; this one. However, I was really hooked from page one because I just couldn't put it down. The writing is lyrical, nearly poetic, the images created are haunting. The  novel introduces a series of characters on a variety of levels; nothing is  truly as it first appears in this novel.  The Succubus is such an  incredible character; she is erotic and dangerous without any other motive  than to fulfill her purpose for coming to earth. Her image will stick with  you throughout this read. The dialogue is intelligent and realistic, the  images are sharp, and the plot keeps building throughout the novel. This is  a must-read for the intelligent horror reader.	2000-03-29
US	51701856	RNSBU2HPF73KV	0380804557	26552478	Stardust	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A must!	Tristran Thorn embarks on an adventure &quot;across the wall&quot; to seek a fallen star that will win him the hand of the girl he loves. And then things get weird. You'll find a dead king's challenge, spiteful princes  vying for the throne, flying ships, witches with interesting but deadly  spells, enchanted forests, and on and on and on..<br /><br /> This is a  charming, funny, witty, beautiful fantasy with endearing characters, rich  writing and sometimes biting humor. I had a lot of fun reading this one. I  bought it a while after reading NEVERWHERE (another odd fantasy that I had  to read in one sitting). I couldn't put it down! I highly recommend this  one to anyone who likes the fantasy genre and who enjoys some  tongue-in-cheek humor as a bonus.	2000-03-29
US	51701856	R668ZF3FJU4AW	0613096053	382004715	Night Journey (The Green Mile, Part 5)	Books	5	0	2	N	Y	If it's King, it's gotta be good	Just paint me stupid. When I found this title in a Stephen King search, it was originally just listed as NIGHT JOURNEY #5. *duh* I failed to put 2 and 2 together and thought this was an early release of King's that wasn't yet  in my collection. Luckily amazon has updated the listing to indicate that  it is #5 in the GREEN MILE series. The description also states that this is  of unknown binding. The one I ordered is in hard cover which is actually  not that bad considering that I only have the paperback series. Order only  if you are a diehard King fan who has to have everything in hard cover. I  have to rate it a 5 because, hey, it's King and it's part of the GREEN MILE  series which is an incredible body of writing.	2000-03-23
US	51701856	RCF7TVHUQ1ONG	0913045063	220265913	The Fuel of Tender Years (Chapbook Series Number 3)	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	It's not by Stephen King!	Ok, when I stumbled across this one doing a search of obscure Stephen King titles, I thought &quot;Hey, never heard of that one; I'll order it.&quot; Well, the introduction is by King, the contents (macabre poetry) are by  Froehlich. This is a little pamphlet/brochure-type publication of about 50  pages. The poetry isn't horrible as far as poetry goes, although I have to  disagree with the critics in that I would not dub Froehlich the foremost  horror poet of this century. I rate this a 3 for two reasons: 1) the  following poem &quot;BLOOD AT THE CIRCUS: And she caught my eye.....Luckily  she threw it back. But I don't Know why.&quot; Hey, it rhymes so it's gotta  be poetry. And 2) the illustrations by Rodger Gerberding are interesting.  Again, the poetry isn't horrible. If you have to order this, make sure you  order it along with other selections so that you're not paying shipping and  handling for this little pamphlet!	2000-03-23
US	51701856	R2VB4RAPMEQ1RY	0843946903	934186299	One Rainy Night	Books	3	37	42	N	Y	Night of the Living Dead meets The Blob meets True Believers	If you are easily grossed out, this one isn't for you. Laymon takes readers on a campy ride through one fatal night in Bixby. A horrible racially-motivated murder leads to voodoo revenge plot. Hmmmm....<br /><br />ONE RAINY NIGHT depicts graphic violence and sex underscoring the dark  side that supposedly lurks beneath us all. Once the mysterious thick black  rain starts to fall, townsfolk begin to run amuck. This is an easy read; I  finished it in one sitting. You won't find any award-winning dialogue,  characters or plot. Many things go unanswered here: what about the  suffering of the murdered boy's family? how do a couple of people quickly  figure out the rain's secret and accept it without question? why does  9-year-old Kara sound like my loveable elderly aunt? Laymon's typical  ability to raise the hair on the back of your neck shines through however.  If you are looking for deep-meaning horror with subtle twists: this isn't  it! RAINY does what it intends: it gives you a few chills, has you racing  toward the finish, but all in all leaves you with the feeling that you just  spent an afternoon watching that low-budget horror film you've always  loved. I enjoyed reading it; I love Laymon's writing in general. But don't  pick this one up expecting to have to figure out the plot. It's simple: an  eye for an eye, be careful what you wish for, and humans are just animals  underneath the fancy clothes. Sometimes you want steak, sometimes you  secretly pig out on cheeseburgers. This one is a fun, greasy cheeseburger:  easily consumed, quickly forgotten.	2000-03-22
US	51701856	R29DCXKL0NP4WG	0446607827	933138979	Superstition	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Hell hath no fury	SUPERSTITION is my introduction to David Ambrose. I just happened to stumble across him surfing through amazon.com one lazy evening. I can now say I am an Ambrose fan and will go on to his other novels.<br /><br />SUPERSITION might take some a few pages to &quot;get into&quot;. But  once you get going, you just have to find out how it ends. The love story  between Sam and Joanne adds a bit of spice without bogging down the ghost  story. This isn't a gory slasher novel. It deals with the psychology of  fear, alternate universes, the powerful effect of the human mind, and plain  'ole revenge! Read this book for the ending if for nothing else. At times  it rambles, but everything pulls together (trust me). This was definitely a  good read, and I highly recommend it if you like your horror to present a  bit of intelligence along with the chills.	2000-03-22
US	51701856	R2YGENHZ9P095L	0451457625	548981361	Black Oak 3: Winter Knight	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Fun, quick read	Let's face it: this Black Oak series is just plain fun! GENESIS and THE HUSH OF DARK WINGS start out the series. Grant introduces us to Ethan Proctor, the brooding but brilliant leader of Black Oak Security. If there  is a creepy twist, Proctor and company are sure to find it!<br /><br />WINTER KNIGHT finds Proctor in the quaint town of Pludbury, Englad. The  townsfolk readily accept the legend of one of the town's forefathers who  will grant them their deepest desires in exchange for their souls. Proctor,  of course, digs and digs to discover the mystery of the resident ghost.<br /><br />This series is imaginative with Grant's patented writing. If you  are new to Grant, these are an excellent way to get an idea of the depth of  his writing. Besides, each is so much fun to read that you certainly won't  regret the investment!	2000-03-21
US	51701856	R2L7L8OZ8CAYAH	0312969198	41453332	A Cold Day in Paradise: An Alex McKnight Novel (Alex McKnight Novels)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Edgar and Shamus Awards for Best First Novel	It has the mysterious murders, the plot twists, the maniacal killer (maybe), the dame, quirky small town citizens and the hard-boiled former cop turned UP detective. I don't normally read mysteries, but I was drawn  to this one at the bookstore. I have to say it was worth the price; I  finished it in one sitting. Hamilton kept my interest, and I loved  unwinding the mystery along with Alex McKnight (our reluctant hero). I'm  now a fan and can't wait to read the latest McKnight adventure!	2000-03-21
US	51701856	RXDIB2O0DNWL9	084394580X	944210727	The Nightmare Chronicles	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Unputdownable!	Clegg cuts to the chase. This collection of short stories is an emotional roller coaster which actually managed to frighten this long-time horror addict.<br /><br />From the very beginning Clegg introduces so many twists  and eerie images that it is impossible to put the book down.  Clegg  introduces us to a kidnapped boy who turns out to be anything but as he  shares his vision stories with his abductors. Each story weaves an  incredible picture of disturbing images of human behavior (er..mostly  human).<br /><br />If you read any horror anthologies, you've likely run  across Clegg before, especially the story White Chapel. This collection  then is sure to make you a fan.	2000-03-21
US	51701856	R2ZR91ALWAHGDR	0312862792	673478890	Riders in the Sky (Millennium Quartet)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Fantastic finale	Casey Chisholm is back! This 4th in a series novel eloquently pulls together the characters and the armageddon story line started in SYMPHONY. If you haven't read any of the other novels in this series (SYMPHONY, IN  THE MOOD, CHARIOT), you are missing out. However, any of the novels is a  winner on its own.<br /><br />Grant has an incredible way of weaving word  pictures. He does not let any of these novels play out just on the  end-of-the-world theme. He allows us to witness the inner struggles of each  character as he grapples with his own fears and doubts in this cosmic  event. The heroes are not infallible, and the bad guys are not merely evil;  each character has several levels.<br /><br />I devoured each novel in this  series. Grant's writing is superb, and these novels are treasures.	2000-03-21
US	51701856	R2ETHPPM4LMXUB	0843942908	776590442	Drawn to the Grave	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	Worth the read	I gave this novel a chance after reading Mitchell's SIPS OFBLOOD. I wanted to see if she was truly worth the praise I had heardabout her because I found SIPS to be rather, well, mundane and silly.<br /><br />DRAWN has that &quot;tales from the crypt&quot; feel to it. A well-worn premise (you know, white explorer stumbles on fantastic jungle spell and capitalizes on it until his own destruction), somewhat interesting characters and detailed gory descriptions of rotting corpses (er...living corpses?)...these all make for a rather fun read. I have to admit, I enjoyed it.<br /><br />DRAWN certainly isn't a horror masterpiece in my book, but it is worth your time. Watch out for graphic sex and even more graphic gore; if you are easily offended, this one isn't for you. But if you are willing to suspend disbelief and pretend you are watching a Saturday afternoon &quot;B&quot; flick, you'll like this book. The ultimate revenge sequence at the end makes it worthwhile.	2000-03-21
US	51701856	R1XFJPWH6MW3SU	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	1	14	20	N	N	Can I give it less than one star?	Tsk, tsk....Who could imagine that Hannibal Lecter would be *gasp* boring and silly?  I've long admired Harris for his character development and knack for nail-biting suspense. He seems to take his time between novels  which leads to rich, frightening reads. HANNIBAL, to me, seemed rushed and  juvenile. So unlike you, Mr. Harris!<br /><br />From the very beginning,  favorite characters from SILENCE OF THE LAMBS and RED DRAGON do not behave  consistently with the way they were originally written. I think Starling  must have suffered several blows to the head to act as she did in this one.  The entire sequence with her and Hannibal alone together is just not  believable. And the scenes in Italy are uninteresting at best.<br /><br />Several times I wanted to put this novel away for good but kept reading  in hopes that it would improve. Unfortunately, it just got worse and worse.  If you have to read it, save some money and buy the paperback. I rushed out  to buy it in hardback when it was released, and that hardback is now  sitting in my &quot;to be donated&quot; box. I'm very disappointed, Mr.  Harris. I'm a hardcore horror fan, and reading this novel took up time I  could have used to read something worthwhile.	2000-03-21
US	51701856	RORS2ATUHHKOB	0671046179	815342548	Blood And Smoke Cd	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	Nobody does it better	I have to admit, I like the heft of a novel. However, any true S. King fan has to have this audio collection. King's narration adds a wonderful feel to the stories. Once again King delivers the goose bumps, and his  characters are wonderfully developed. This collection is a lot of fun, the  stories kept my attention, and I couldn't wait to pop in the CD to find out  the next twist.	2000-02-17
US	51701856	R3VZWR5KHW7M8B	0843945559	422487181	Sips of Blood	Books	1	2	2	N	Y	This is a horror novel, right?	Never one to pass up any vampire novel, I purchased Sips because the description seemed interesting. Vampires, Marquis de Sade, fetishism, yada yada yada. If this is a comedy, I give it 4 stars; however, I'll give it 1  star as a horror novel. Sade was rather boring; I would think a character  as intense and multi-faceted as the Marquis de Sade would make for a more  interesting vampire. The writing style isn't too bad, but overall I found  the characters to be mildly amusing at best. The plot was thin, the end was  anti-climactic, and the vampires were not very frightening. The book had  little suspense, and it leaves a mile-wide opening for a sequel at the  conclusion. I would, however, like to see something more of the vampire  mutants lurking in the graveyard. They were the most riveting of any of the  characters.	2000-02-17
US	51701856	R2WNBB2JCIEZH2	0679401385	639054554	Mr. X	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Finally!	Mr. X has the characters, the twists, and the biting irony that have all made Straub one of the best in the genre. The characters are wonderful (the aunts are howlingly funny), and Straub's rich language paints vivid  pictures of this odd little town. Straub finally returns to the  supernatural, and the novel is filled with magic, paranormal experiences,  time travel, greed and revenge. Only Straub could have me feeling pity for  the villain by the end of this one!	2000-02-17
