US	51702853	R25YYFIWG80SFC	055358250X	928039507	The Interrogation	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fast Paced Ride	\\"The Interrogation\\" primarily takes place over a 12-hour period in the early 1950's with flashbacks to another time.  As the name suggests, during this period Albert Smalls, a drifter and loner who has been accused of murdering a young girl, is being interrogated by two police officers.  At the end of this period, they must either get a confession from Albert or release him due to a lack of evidence.  The pressure to prove Albert guilty or extract a confession in this short period of time is the driving force of the book.<br />There is hardly a character in the book who is not carrying a heavy personal burden. ..the Jewish police officer who cannot forget the concentration camps he came across while at war; the police officer whose own young daughter was murdered; the police captain whose son is dying from drug abuse and general neglect.  At times it is difficult to differentiate between their spiritual bankruptcy and that of Smalls. Added to these three, there are an assortment of other characters, each dysfunctional in his own way.  Although the book focuses on the questioning of Small, the story is primarily told through seemingly disparate story lines that occur outside of the interrogation room. Throughout the book, you never really know if Small is the guilty party which only adds to the suspense.<br />There are very few parts of the book that drag.  These sections are soon overlooked and forgotten when you reach the ending which goes on until the very last line on the last page. Folks, it ain't over until it's over.  All in all, I would consider this book a page turner.  Just be prepared for a very dark ride.	2003-10-29
US	51702853	R16K5FDMLXBBWV	0340768525	631759399	Tread Softly	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wonderful First Novel	This is the story of the search for a serial killer in a small University town in England. The killer has a penchant for young red headed women who he kills with a great amount of rage. There are suspects galore and each time you believe you know who the killer is, something else will be added to the mix to make you reconsider.<BR> <BR>Was I ever surprised to discover that Ms. Hale took what I thought would be a British police procedural and turned it into one of the most poignant love stories I have read in quite a while-the love between a man and a woman; the love between a parent and child; and the love between friends. In the course of exploring each of these relationships, Ms. Hale exposes the vulnerabilities of each character until you know them intimately. The beauty is that in doing this, she does not detract from the story line and the suspense surrounding the quest for the true identity of the killer. <br />In addition, Ms. Hale has managed, in brutal honesty, to address an issue that often pops up in British police procedurals- that of the older made-it-up-through the ranks copper trying to deal with the younger university educated police officer. How Ms. Hale has managed to address all these issues in a not-very long book is a marvel. <br />The only problem I had with this book was with the story line centering on a romance between two of the characters. Although this is treated with the same intensity as the other relationships in the book, I found certain aspects of this a bit contrived and more in line with the romance novel genre. <br />In closing, I would heartily recommend this book. I anxiously look forward to Ms. Hale's next book. If she were to take but one of the many complex issues she explored in this book and make it the crux of her next book, I would be very happy.	2003-10-29
US	51702853	R3II3GFP9XF0I8	0340748192	206116673	The Puppet Show	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Ten Star Psychological Thriller	Although I read \\"The Puppet Show\\" when it was first published, I still consider it to be one of the best books I have read in years.  Because of this, I felt compelled to write a review so I could share my enthusiasm with others.    <br />This is the story of  Michael Turner, an orphan, who later in life meets up with Max, an older man who grew up in the same orphanage as Michael.  Their relationship quickly turns into a tale of obsession, control and downright evil.  The book is about a myriad of relationships and how Max has an affect on each one of them.  <br />In the style of Barbara Vine at her best, the book lulls you along with nothing happening in the traditional sense of a mystery thriller.   Although I knew something was going to \\"happen,\\" I was so lulled into complacency by the narrative, that when that something does happen, I was absolutely stunned.    <br />I thought the writing was lean and that there was not a superfluous word in the book.  The only fault I found was with the Epilogue.  I believe the last chapter could have stood on its own and, in fact, would have made for a far more thought provoking ending to the story.<BR> <BR>If you pick up a copy of this book, you will be in store for an extraordinary reading experience.	2003-10-29
US	51702853	R22CCDUCP8H4S8	0593047583	561793640	Dying to tell	Books	1	11	14	N	N	Goddard Struck Out	This is the story of Lance Bradley, a young British man who is asked to look for Rupe, his childhood friend, who has gone missing for about three months. Lance, a bit of a wastrel with little or no direction in his life, undertakes this search which takes him to three continents in the course of a couple of weeks.  There doesn't seem to be any reason why Rupe would just disappear although Goddard introduces a number of possibilities. <br />I have long been a great fan of Robert Goddard but this book just didn't do it for me. By the end, I didn't care what had happened to Rupe or even why he was nowhere to be found. I somehow got the impression that Goddard felt the same way. <br />There are hordes of good guys, villians and those who fall somewhere in the middle. The descriptions of all the cities Lance visits during his whirlwind two-week round the world trip was rather interesting though. <br />What was lacking from this book was what I always refer to as the &quot;whiplash&quot; effect that I have come to expect from a Goddard book. Just when you are complacent and think you have all the players analyzed, he throws you a curveball. Alas, mighty Goddard struck out.	2003-10-29
US	51702853	R1LMXNW453QAAV	0375727094	583511887	Hard Feelings: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Modern Day Tragedy	HARD FEELINGS is the story of Richie Segal, a thirty-something man who, on the face of things seems to be living the American dream, but in reality is slowly disintegrating into the depths of hell. He is about to lose his job, his marriage is in trouble and he is trying to control his alcoholic tendencies. In the midst of this maelstrom, Richie accidentally bumps into Michael Rudnick, a childhood friend who sexually abused him.  This sends Richie into a tailspin of dark and troubled memories, bouts of drinking, a loss objectivity, and an escalating desire for retribution.  Richie has convinced himself that only this will set him free and enable him to salvage his marriage as well as his career. <br />Although the story unfolds at a slow pace, never does your attention wane because there is such a sense of doom behind every word.  The suspense builds so subtly that when Richie acts out, you are more relieved than surprised.  To say that what happens is predictable would not do justice to the writing or the story telling, both of which are gripping.  That is probably because Richie, himself, is such a complicated and compelling character.<br />I would be remiss if I didnt mention that I was a bit disappointed with the last few chapters.  In these last pages, events seem to happen at a breakneck speed in sharp contrast with the rest of the book.  At this point in the book, I also would have much preferred a less than expected ending. Nevertheless, I do not hesitate to recommend HARD FEELINGS.  Just be prepared for a dark ride.	2002-03-19
US	51702853	R1K6RFPJF95J18	0553571729	37218598	The Red Scream	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Better Late Than Never	\\"The Red Scream\\" was written almost ten years ago and I was late coming to the party.  I can say that am I ever glad I put on my best black dress, Grandma M's pearls and those slinky black shoes and made my appearance.  By the time the party was over, I was raising my glass in a toast to Ms. Walker for writing \\"The Red Scream.\\" <br />\\"The Red Scream\\" is about Louie Brock, a serial killer, who has been on death row for over ten years. Although he murdered many women, he was sentenced to death for killing Tiny, the wife of a rich and prominent builder in Austin, Texas. While Louis is in jail counting the precious few days before he is scheduled to be executed, there is a copycat murder. Louis confessed to the murder ten years ago but now is claiming he is innocent.  Molly Cates, a crime reporter, has been involved with Louis' story since Tiny's murder and has written numerous articles and a book about Tiny's murder.  She now questions whether Louis actually did murder Tiny or whether he was railroaded into confessing.  Although she feels he is a despicable character and probably deserves to die for all the other women he murdered, she sets out to prove that he is innocent of that particular murder because she has a very strong sense of justice.  <br />Did Louis murder Tiny ten years ago?  We can't take his claim of innocence at face value because Louis is a notorious liar.  If he is telling the truth this time, with a horde of suspects and possible murder scenarios, we are left guessing until the last few pages of the book.<BR>For those who like a little romance along with their sleuthing, this book will deliver.  During the course of the investigation, three times divorced Molly comes in contact with her first husband, Grady, who is a police officer. Are they still in love with each other after more than 20 years and, if so, can they get together.  Another mystery that is not revealed until the end of the book.<br />The \\"voice\\" of this book is a strong condemnation of the death penalty.   The fact that Louis has killed many people but that Molly is fighting to save him from being executed because he may be innocent of the particular crime that sent him to death row is an innovative and stunning way to approach this controversial subject. <br />Ms. Walker had made it to my list of favorite authors and I am looking forward to reading everything she has written.	2002-03-16
US	51702853	R106UCWUQWHW4P	1565846524	491173377	One Step Behind: A Kurt Wallander Mystery	Books	5	23	31	N	Y	Another winner in this Swedish police procedural	\\"One Step Behind\\" is one of the books in the Inspector Kurt Wallander series but, to be honest, because the English translations of this series have been released out of order of original publication, I haven't a clue where it belongs in the ongoing story.  Having read all the books released thus far, I will say it is one of the later entries in this excellent Swedish police procedural.  <br />This is the story of the search for a serial killer who has not only coldly murdered a number of young people but one of Kurt's police comrades.  It is a finite police procedural and not for someone who is looking for a page turner. Wallander and his crew endlessly go over each clue looking for a break in the case. At times I found this rather annoying and wanted to scream....\\"I know, I know...let's move on.\\" In retrospect, I believe that in \\"One Step Behind,\\" Mankell's aim was to give us an insight into how much work goes into a police investigation.  To see Wallander pore over each lead and get into his mind as he struggles to make sense of a senseless series of murders is the joy of this book.  <br />In this book, we don't get to see as much of Kurt's angst as we have in the earlier books. He has put his personal problems on the side for the duration of the investigation and his only goal is to find the killer before he strikes again. <br />Unlike most of Mankell's other books, there was a minimum of violence and no gruesome murder scenes.  Kurt seems to have mellowed out and so has Mankell's writing.	2002-02-13
US	51702853	R3LNF0GHARS440	1568581955	457297209	Headbanger	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Meet Dublin's Man of La Ma	When I ordered \\"Headbanger,\\" I thought I would be reading a police procedural that takes place in Dublin.  The only thing I got right is the locale.  <br />Basically, \\"Headbanger\\" is the story of Pat Coyne, a police officer in Dublin who is determined to arrest some big-time criminals who have evaded the law for years.  The problem is that Pat does not have the support of the Garda or his fellow police officers.   In Pat, we meet the ultimate maverick police officer who takes it upon himself to bring these drug lords and murderers to justice single handedly.  He employs methods that are not only are outside the system, but are downright illegal.  <br />In the course of his single-minded determination to bring down these bad guys, Pat also manages to get himself involved in the lives of friends and strangers alike, none of whom welcome his attentions.  This is a man who reacts without regard to the consequences of his actions.  His  rash behavior could prove dangerous not only to him and his beloved wife and children, but to anyone who comes in contact with him. <br />Pat thinks it is his responsibility to make things right for the whole world.  Quite a tall order for one man.  But, you see, Pat is on an endless search for the meaning of life and what role he can play in setting things right. You can't help but love this guy whose greatest joy is quoting inane statistics about everything in the world you didn't care one whit about to anyone who will listen...or pretend to listen...and spending time with his family.<br />\\"Animosity\\" has scenes of hard-boiled violence, sensitive character explorations and, at times, is just plain funny.  The book has no chapters or quotation marks around the dialogue. At first, it was slow reading but once I got into the rhythm, the story flowed.  For this reason, I am rating the book four stars instead of five.  If I could, I would rate it 4-l/2 stars.  <br />I can't wait to read the sequel to this book to see what kettle of fish thisloveable loose cannon has gotten himself into.	2002-01-26
US	51702853	R3742A5TMVULP5	0446527912	665759078	Animosity	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Subtle tale of love, obsession, betrayal and murder	&quot;Amimosity&quot; is the story of Ross Marteau, a sculptor noted for his nude sculptures, who becomes entwined in the lives of two sisters when they commission him to do a sculpture of Leda, the younger sister. Ross finds that this commission will the biggest challenge of his career for Leda is not the flawless beauty she appears to be at first glance.  This is a story where no one is who they seem to be and nothing that occurs can be accepted at face value.<br />I was most impressed with the soft voice in which Mr. Lindsey tells this story. You are constantly being thrown curves but, while unsettling, none of them were jarring. The story in itself is jarring, but the subtle way in which it is written makes it a poignant tale of love, murder, obsession and betrayal.<br />Mr. Lindsey joins the ranks of Joe R. Lansdale and Stephen Booth in creating a sense of place. You will find yourself totally immersed in the small town in Texas and the Left Bank of Paris. I don't like hot climates, but while reading this book, I actually wanted to be in that Texas town with its heat, humidity and lush landscape.  Mr. Lindsey has also captured the romance and beauty of Paris that has drawn people to that magical city for years.<br />The last chapter of this book is a fitting end to a special book.  I am still haunted by the last few pages.	2002-01-18
US	51702853	R2CPP7LUWFA01Q	0399147810	550011371	Collected Books: The Guide to Values 2002 Edition (Collected Books)	Books	2	32	40	N	Y	Buyer Beware...Not For the Novice	Searching the Net, I recently discovered that many books in my collection are selling for two to four times what I paid for them. Although I have no present intention of selling any of my books, I thought it would be interesting to ascertain if the books are those valuable &quot;true&quot; first editions. I don't know about you, but I find trying to identify a first edition as complicated as calculus. <br />I purchased the most recent edition of &quot;Collected Books&quot; thinking that at last I would be able to unravel the mystery.  I was so excited when I received the book before the long holiday weekend thinking I would pore over all my books and perhaps find some plums.  Was I ever disappointed to find that my Christmas stocking was filled with coal.<br />Rather than help you identify a first edition, the book is a comprehensive list of those high end first edition books.  This book is for those serious collectors rather than the novice who may have a book in their collection worth wrapping in Milar and storing in a safe place.  In fact, the authors recommend other reference books if you are interested in more detailed information on identifying first editions. <br />My rating is really meaningless because I don't feel qualified to pass on the merits of this book. I assume it is a grand book for the serious collector.  However, since this was a very expensive faux pas on my part, I wanted to let others know that this book is not helpful if you are only interested in cracking that allusive &quot;code&quot; publishers use to identify first editions.	2001-12-24
US	51702853	R1PL41C5NVETBC	006103049X	263846926	Mary, Mary: A Novel	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Ms. Parsons, Ms. Parsons...not your best effort	After reading &quot;Eager to Please&quot; by Ms. Parsons, which I loved, I decided to read another of her books.  &quot;Mary, Mary&quot; sounded interesting and on the basis of my appreciation of  &quot;Eager to Please,&quot; I was really looking forward to reading Ms. Parsons' debut novel.<br />The story begins with the torture, rape and murder of Mary, a 20-year old woman temporarily living in Dublin.  We even know who the murderer is early in the book.  This brutal crime is merely a catalyst for the story of Margaret, Mary's single mother, and her reaction to the murder of her only child.  During the course of the book, we learn everything there is to know about Margaret from the time of her birth up to the present day.  Ms. Parsons explores every relationship Margaret has had during her 40-plus years.  One would think that with all this probing into Margaret's life, we would get to know this woman in a very personal way.  However, with all this information, Margaret comes off as a one-dimensional character whose only reason for being is to revenge her daughter's death. <br />Inspector Michael McLaughlin, the police officer assigned to this case, is the one character I felt Ms. Parsons brought to life. I found his personal story touching and overshadowed his involvement in the investigation of the crime. He is the one person in the book that I was drawn to and actually cared about. What I found interesting is that in all his interactions with Margaret we always know what Michael is feeling while Margaret and only contributes dialogue.  If it were not for Michael, I would probably give this book a two star rating.<br />The problem I had with this book, other than the fact that is relentlessly dark, is the shift in time periods and characters.  The book covers a 40-year time frame and Ms. Parsons shifts back and forth to any time and place within these 40 years.  This, in itself, would not be a problem.  In fact, I usually like this literary device.  However, Ms. Parsons will start out a scene with two people in a certain time and place and quite abruptly, you will find there is a new cast of characters in another time and place only to find you are back again with the original two characters a few paragraphs later.  Have I confused you?  Well, imagine how I felt reading this.  I was constantly having to go back a paragraph or two to get my bearings.<br />I will say that the last 30 pages were real page turners. What a shame to have to plow through a very long not so great book to get to there.  <br />Although I didn't like this book very much, I would recommend that you pick up a copy of &quot;Eager to Please&quot; if you want to read <BR>Mr. Parsons at her best.<br />Boy, this was a hard review to write.  Forgive me if I have rambled on but I think I am only reacting the rambling and rather disjointed style of the book.	2001-12-08
US	51702853	R26A209OBVJRC0	0743219317	918613509	Eager to Please	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A Very Pleasing Psychological Thriller	When I first started reading &quot;Eager to Please,&quot; I felt it was just too dark and wanted to rush home and grab another book.  However, my bus was coming and this was the only reading matter I had with me.  Lucky me!!  To think that I might have missed the opportunity to read this superb novel.  I am hesitant to divulge more than the basic plot because I personally found each revelation throughout the book a surprise and wouldn't want to deprive the reader of that experience.  <br />This is the story of Rachel, a middle-class, well educated woman in Dublin, who was convicted of killing her husband although she has never stopped claiming her innocence.  The story begins when she is being released on parole after serving 12 years of a life sentence.  While in jail, Rachel lost much...her five-year old daughter was taken in by foster parents, her father, being so ashamed by the trial and never really believing her innocence, stopped visiting her after a few months, her mother died never having visited her.  <br />As the story unfolds, we begin to realize that Rachel has an agenda of revenge against the one person she claims murdered her husband and is responsible for her imprisonment and all the personal losses she has suffered.  It is fascinating to see how Rachel painstakingly orchestrates her plan.  There is not a character in this book who doesn't find themselves a piece of the puzzle.   <br />What starts as an introspective look into Rachel's rather bleak life becomes a thrilling page-turner. Ms. Parsons has written her story in such a way that is exquisitely subtle while at the same time jarring us every so often by revealing that all is not what we have come to think it is. From the first chapter through the last, we are privy to twists and turns and come to know a far different Rachel than the woman we meet on the first page.  The way the story evolves reminded me very much of Robert Goddard at his very best.<br />I read this book in little over a day and I am not a fast reader. It is one of those books that you just can't put down. If you are in the mood for a very smooth roller coaster ride, I suggest you pick up a copy of &quot;Eager to Please.&quot;	2001-11-21
US	51702853	R2B94FR9Z5GSV4	0380978326	514211574	Aftermath: A Novel of Suspense	Books	5	67	71	N	Y	Here's to you Mr. Robinson!	&quot;Aftermath&quot; is the most recent entry in the British police procedural featuring Superintendent Alan Banks.  For those of you who have followed this series, you are in for quite a surprise. <br />Peter Robinson has done what very few authors of a series have been able to accomplish.  He has taken a very popular series of books that were on the cozy side and with each succeeding book made the stories deeper and more meaningful and the characters richer and more complex.  With this book, he has passed over from the rather mild British police procedural into the realm of Val McDermid land.  In a brutally graphic manner, Mr. Robinson tells his story about a serial rapist and murderer while exploring child abuse, sexual exploitation, espousal abuse and the very dark side of the human psyche. <br />Along the way, Mr. Robinson adds more layers to the straight forward Alan Banks we met in the earlier books.   We have come to discover that this is a complicated man who is in conflict about his broken marriage and the demands of his job.  Mr. Robinson has paid the same attention to each character in this book, creating a rich and multi-dimensional cast of players.  <br />One can only applaud him for taking this series in a totally new direction.  I imagine it is not that easy for an author to fiddle with a wildly popular series.  Mr. Robinson took that chance and we, the readers, are the beneficiaries of his willingness to explore new vistas.	2001-10-21
US	51702853	R13VNHW09BA7R7	0312274580	881215189	Red Hook	Books	5	36	39	N	Y	The mystery joins the ranks of fine literature!	If you look for &quot;Red Hook,&quot; you will find it listed as a &quot;mystery.&quot;  Hah!  Don't believe that for one minute.  Sure, there are a couple of murders and some good police investigation.  However, the heart and soul of this book is about a man's search for himself...for acceptance of things past and the capacity to open his heart to the future.   <br />Jack Leightner, a 50-year old divorced man, is a detective in a special homicide squad in Brooklyn. Jack is Brooklyn born and bred and has never had the desire to leave. I have often heard people say they like the sense of place they get from a book.  If you want to spend some time in the real Brooklyn, this is your book. Mr. Cohen has captured the cultural differences of each neighborhood in that borough of New York.   <br />When a man is found dead in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn, Jack and his special homicide unit are assigned the case.  The circumstances surrounding this murder are a true to mystery to him and his partner.  Why would anyone want to kill a Dominican janitor in such a brutal manner?  In his tireless search for the answer, Jack not only confronts his childhood which was spent in Red Hook, but the future of this area of Brooklyn whose golden days seem long past.   <br />Jack's exploration into his darkest and deepest hidden fears bring him face to face with his relationships with both the dead and the living.  He tries to come to terms with a strained relationship with his dead father and his feelings about his younger brother who died at thirteen. While doing this, he is trying to reconnect with his 20-something son and enter into his first meaningful relationship with a woman in almost 20 years.<BR>  <BR>The ending of this book is second only to that of &quot;The 25th Hour.&quot;  I couldn't turn the last 20 pages fast enough.  Like the famous roller coaster ride in Coney Island, Mr. Cohen takes you on a heart-thumping ride that sends you soaring and plummeting time and again.  This does not end until the very last page when you can catch your breath and get off the ride.  <br />With the publication of, among others, &quot;The Bottoms,&quot; The 25th Hour&quot; and &quot;Mystic River, the mystery novel has joined the ranks of fine literature. Add &quot;Red Hook&quot; to this impressive list.<br />Five stars does not do this book justice.  Pick up a copy and see if you're not rooting for Jack.	2001-10-17
US	51702853	R2K5LT2F3X45MB	0747258899	979121059	Thin Ice (A Fizz & Buchanan mystery)	Books	3	7	7	N	Y	A Romp in Edinburgh	I haven't the vaguest idea who recommended this series to me or what caught my fancy.  I am sure the fact that it takes place in Edinburgh had something to do with my decision to give it a try.  I usually never start a series in the middle but &quot;Thin Ice,&quot; the third or fourth book in this series, was the easiest to obtain. <br />The protagonists are Tam, a rather uptight conservative attorney, and Fizz, a gadabout street wise law student.  The unlikely pair are called upon to help look for a kidnapped young boy.  During the course of their search, they uncover a murder and a host of white collar crimes, all of which seem to be connected to the hospital where the boy's mother works.  <br />Personally, I did not find the mystery aspect of this book its strong point.  On the other hand, what did set the book apart and make it enjoyable was the interaction between Tam and Fizz.  While they are co-workers and reluctant friends, there is an underlying sexual pull going on at all times.  Fizz has a knack for pushing all of Tam's buttons, which makes for some humorous situations, all of which are very well written by Ms. Holms.  The often slapstick situations are buffered by the crisp satiric dialogue.  You may not be laughing out loud, but you will be chuckling. Okay...I did laugh out loud once or twice.<br />Ladies and gentlemen, this is definitely not the Edinburgh of John Rebus or Bob Skinner.  In this book, they eat their smoked salmon on a bagel with cream cheese and don't take life too seriously.<br />I am definitely going to read the next book in the series to see how Fizz and Tam are getting on.  Okay, I admit it.  When I first saw those names, I was sure the book was about two cats.<br />I would recommend this book if you are looking for a light mystery and a few laughs.  It just doesn't reach four stars...more like 3-l/2.	2001-10-03
US	51702853	R27FF14GQ3F9GI	0312963157	916877177	The Last Girl	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	With friends like this...	&quot;The Last Girl&quot; is the story of Larry, an old age pensioner, living in a boarding house in London. When Mandy, a young woman, rents rooms in the house, Larry becomes obsessed with befriending her.  The problem is that Larry is not just looking for a friend; rather, he is looking to possess Mandy.  He will settle for nothing less than her spending all her time with him, having no other friends and comporting herself in a manner he considers proper for a young lady.  <br />The story is told in Larry words with very little dialogue.  Larry is the &quot;star&quot; of this story and everything that happens evolves around how it affects him.  In his mind, nothing else exists but his needs and his feelings.  <br />Did I like &quot;The Last Girl?&quot;  Well, that depends on which part of the book I was reading.  I found the first part of the book to be repetitive, rambling and often boring.  Then about one-third through the book a light went off.  I realized that I was not reading mindless dialogue but was inside the mind of a madman.  At that point, I was fascinated, repulsed and sitting on the edge of my seat as the tension subtly escalated.  Larry's skewed and self-absorbing view of the world and his relationship with Mandy often made me want to throttle him.  This part of the book I thoroughly enjoyed.  If a character can evoke such a strong reaction from a reader, in my opinion, it is a good book.  However, I thought the ending was predictable and a bit of a let down.  With all the possibilities available to Ms. Evans, I was looking forward to a real shocker. <br />This is a book that requires a commitment from the reader.  Initially, it is not a fast read and you have to plow through some less-than-exciting reading to reach that point where the book grabs you.  Oh, if only the book had ended with the crescendo begun midway through.  For this reason, I only feel comfortable giving the book three stars.	2001-09-29
US	51702853	R10Y5STAIEVEHN	0788749331	952658601	Mistakenly in Mallorca	Books	4	7	7	N	N	An Afternoon's Escape	I originally picked up this book, which is the first in a series featuring Inspector Alvarez, a couple of months ago.  After reading a few chapters, I decided it was a little too light for me and put it back on the shelf.  Recently I found myself wanting to read a book that didn't require much concentration or emotional involvement.  Aha!  I dug this book out and read it in one sitting.<br />&quot;Mistakenly in Mallorca&quot; is about a community of rather well-to-do British ex-patriots who live the good life on the Spanish island of Mallorca.  When one of them is found dead, Inspector Alvarez is called in to certify that the death was an accident.  During the course of his investigation, he questions whether this was an accident and ultimately determines that it was murder most foul.<br />The book centers around John Tathan, a young British man, visiting his eccentric great aunt on this island paradise.  We meet all the members of this tight knit little British community of would-be aristocrats as well as the Spaniards who have lived on the island long before it became a popular tourist attraction.  These people are the heart and soul of this book.  We do not get to meet Inspector Alvarez until midway through the book when the body is found.  The way in which he unearths each clue reminded me very much of Peter Falk's Lieutenant Columbo.  I wouldn't mind spending more time with Inspector Alvarez and will be looking for other books in this series. <br />I know there is a moral somewhere in this book but, to be honest, I just enjoyed the pleasant afternoon I spent escaping the troubles of the world and will leave the moralizing for another day.	2001-09-25
US	51702853	RXLZOXRS8M1ZO	0892967420	223656325	The Earthquake Bird	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Exceptional first outing for a new author	I read &quot;The Earthquake Bird&quot; when it was first released in the UK.  I normally wouldn't consider writing a review of a book that I had read months ago but in this case the distance works very well.  This is a book that just gets better the more you think about it...and think about it you will.<br />Lucy Fly is a British woman who fled England years ago to live in Japan.  Lucy is an enigmatic and detached character who, although allowing us to stroll through her mind, very rarely allows us to enter her heart or her soul.  During the many years she has lived in Tokyo, she has made few friends and her central relationship is her affair with Teiji, a man who lives his life through his photographs.  Lily Bridges, a young woman escaping her own personal hell in England, enters the lives of these lovers.  In doing so, this seemingly naive young woman is the catalyst for the &quot;earthquake&quot; that upsets Lucy's claustrophobic and rather controlled life.   For this, it would seem that poor Lily may have paid with her life.<br />This tightly-woven story unfolds at a slow and steady pace.  While often sounding dispassionate, there is an undercurrent of electricity lurking beneath every word.  Although it is a tale of passion, rage and obsession, emotions I associate with blazing colors, the story is told in muted shades of black and white.  In the film noir style, there are scenes shrouded in a haze of fog, masked in gauze or with slim rays of light falling across small enclosed spaces. While there is no single stunning moment in &quot;The Earthquake Bird,&quot; the story in itself is stunning. <br />At first I was thinking of comparing Ms. Jones' writing to that of Minette Walters, Barbara Vine  or Nicci French but, on reflection, I believe that her storytelling skills are far more subtle.  This is an extraordinary first outing and I anxiously await Ms. Jones' next book.<br />Make no mistake about it, &quot;The Earthquake Bird&quot; is Lucy's story and hers alone. She is the narrator and all that happens in the book is in her voice and seen through her eyes.  If you want to take a walk on the dark side, I would strongly recommend that you pick up a copy of &quot;The Earthquake Bird&quot; and spend some time with Lucy.	2001-09-08
US	51702853	R73EQGJ0N6RSB	1575667509	305992042	Death at Wentwater Court (Daisy Dalrymple Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	3	37	41	N	Y	A very British cozy	I am an ardent reader of British mysteries.  I was first drawn to this genre by reading a series of cozies.  Over the years my tastes have changed, though, and I now much prefer a British psychological thriller or police procedural.  However, I still read a cozy now and then for a change of pace.<br />&quot;Death at Wentwater Court&quot; is the first book in a series featuring The Honourable Daisy Dalrymple and Inspector Alec Fletcher of Scotland Yard.  Take a weekend gathering at a country estate in the 1920's, one of the guests who is the unfortunate victim, suspects galore, a promising romantic story line, more red herrings than clues and you have the makings of the ultimate cozy. <br />Most of the sleuthing is done by Daisy, a member of the British aristocracy who, being rather down on her luck, is supporting herself by working as a journalist.  Alec seems to be along for the ride providing her with bits of information that set her off in her pursuit to solve the murder.  Oh, he also serves a very important role as a possible suitor for Daisy.  <br />I am giving this book three stars because I found it to be a bit too one-dimensional for my tastes.  However, if you like an old fashioned very British mystery, this just might be your cuppa.	2001-08-31
US	51702853	RHSXO44WURV6F	0609607898	424501834	Grasshopper	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Hop right over this one!	In my opinion, a good psychological thriller draws you into the lives of one or more of the characters. Once I have made this emotional investment, I am content to glide along until that thrilling moment when an otherwise ordinary story throws me into a tailspin with a sharp turn. Not only did I not care about any of the characters in &quot;Grasshopper,&quot; but I never experienced that whiplash effect.  <br /> &quot;Grasshopper&quot; is the story of a group of young people, each a misfit in some way, who congregate in the apartment of Daniel, a rather well-off young man. It seems that their only interest in life is spending time on the rooftops of buildings in London. To some, rather than an interest, it is an obsession and they only come alive when they are on these rooftops. Other than spending time with this group as they scamper around these rooftops, a story line involving a family hiding from the law is introduced. Like the central story line, this subplot never made the transition from neutral into drive.<br /> If I would not think it sacrilegious, I would actually give this book one star. <br />If you have never read a Barbara Vine book, I suggest that you not choose this book as your introduction to this prolific and exceptional writer who set the standard for the modern psychological thriller. If you like a well written psychological thriller, do yourself a favor and pick up one of her other books. You will not be disappointed.	2001-08-25
US	51702853	R3JC3LMNYARKF6	0892967048	727646325	The Bottoms	Books	5	37	46	N	Y	The Bottoms is an intimate trip...get onboard	I have been struggling with this review.  I think that is because &quot;The Bottoms&quot; was such a personal experience that trying to find the words to share my thoughts with others is a bit difficult.   However, I believe this deserves telling because &quot;The Bottoms&quot; is a very special book and I wish to share the experience with others.  <br />This is the tale of Harry, a boy grappling with bridging that difficult gap between childhood and manhood.  Along the way he confronts the search for a serial killer, race relations and his love for his parents with all their faults that we are loathe to accept in our parents.    <br />The story takes place in Eastern Texas during the Depression.  Although this is not a time and place I am familiar with, I found myself meandering through the woods, creeks and rural roads without feeling like a stranger to this part of the country.  Mr. Lansdale made it so real to me that I could feel the heat, smell the air and want to swat at flies or scratch imaginary mosquito bites.  It was as if I were hiding in the woods, in the barn or behind a chair in the farmhouse watching the story enfold before my eyes. Mr Lansdale has a wonderful talent for bringing you into the pictures he creates. His ability to do this reminds me of Stephen Booth's writing in &quot;The Black Dog.&quot;  <br />Although I figured out who the murderer was early in the book, that didn't detract one iota from my pleasure in reading this book.  I was so caught up in lives of a family that I had come to love that catching a serial killer became superfluous to their story.  <br />Of all the characters in the book, I was most drawn to Jacob, Harry's father.  Aside from the fact that I wished I had grown up with a father like Harry, I suffered with him during his crisis of faith in his core moral beliefs and the very purpose for his existence.     <br />This book will hold you in its grip until the very last page.  The last chapter lulled me into a sense of complacency only to find myself in tears when reading the last few paragraphs.  <br />I would urge you to read &quot;The Bottoms&quot; and experience your own personal trip.	2001-08-19
US	51702853	RJNGQHBFD1UH	0609608738	121244280	Justice: Crimes, Trials, and Punishments	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Old stuff...	JUSTICE is a compilation of articles written by Dominick Dunne about famous murder trials that have appeared in Vanity Fair magazine over the past ten years.  Over the years having religiously bought the magazine solely to read Mr. Dunne's articles, I only have myself to blame for purchasing this book.  The money I spent would have been better invested in a subscription to Vanity Fair magazine.<br />Right off the bat, I will say that about two-thirds of the book is devoted to articles about the O.J. trial.  The article about the Menendez brothers' trials was written very early in the judicial process that went on for over a year and, therefore, did not discuss very much that occurred during these two sensational trials.  Furthermore, there were only two articles in the book about recent crimes.<br />I did find the article about a murder that took place in 1943 to be the best of the lot.  This was an article that I hadn't read before about a crime I knew nothing about.  Typical of Mr. Dunne's articles, it is a tale of murder, sex and the lifestyles of the rich and famous.<br />I would recommend this book to those who have never read Mr. Dunne's articles or those of you who are interested in learning more than you already know about the O.J. trial.  It is also a must for those of you who have been stranded on a desert island for the past ten years.	2001-08-15
US	51702853	R5GOOLENHEO8O	0312265840	198558647	Seven Up (Stephanie Plum, No. 7) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	This series is my favorite sit com!	That last thing the world needs is another review of &quot;Seven Up.&quot;  However, after reading a number of reviews of this book, I do feel as though I have something to add to the mix.<br />This series reminds me of watching your favorite TV sitcom. When you turn on the TV, you know exactly what to expect...the same central core of characters in familiar surroundings. However, you know that no matter how many times you have seen these people sitting in their living room, somehow each week something will happen or a dialogue will ensue that will have you roaring with laughter.  I feel the same way whenever I pick up a Stephanie Plum book.<br />For years, whenever someone would suggest I read this series, I always said that I didn't like funny mysteries.  Finally succumbing to the pressure, I picked up the first book in the series.  After reading it, I realized that the only way you can truly enjoy these books is if you give up the notion that they are mysteries.  I find that the mystery is nothing but a backdrop for the antics of Stephanie Plum and the assorted off-center characters that are recurring characters and those that wander in and out of her life.<br />I thought that &quot;Seven Up&quot; was a fine addition to this very funny series.  Just sitting here thinking about Bob the Dog brings a smile to my face.  I also thought the introduction of Stephanie's sister and the exploration of her sexual identity was brilliantly funny. This is a classic example of the subtle humor that Evanovich weaves into her stories.  I find this to be the perfect foil to the more slapstick and far from subtle humor that I associate with Grandma Mazur.   There are those who say that Grandma Mazur is getting boring and predictable.  Did we say the same thing about the Estelle Getty character in the &quot;The Golden Girls,&quot; who to me is a Grandma Mazur clone?&quot;  <br />In the earlier books, another example of brilliant comedic writing is the description of the Buick belching its way down the street.   At one time this vintage car, the size of a small tank, was my favorite character.<br />I don't know about you, but whenever I think of certain scenes in this book, I still find myself chuckling.<br />In closing, I can only say that if you liked any of the books in this series, you will not be disappointed in &quot;Seven Up.&quot;	2001-08-11
US	51702853	R1YTWG5AF3981Z	0446677035	526237241	The Hot Rock	Books	4	87	89	N	Y	What a gem!	Within a few hours of being released on parole, John Dortmunder, a small-time thief and con artist is embroiled in a new caper.  He has been commissioned to steal a valuable emerald for a newly-formed small African nation.  John handpicks the men who will assist him in this heist, each of whom brings their special skills to the job at hand and their off-center behavioral traits.   This is not exactly your gang that couldn't shoot straight. Rather, these misfits just seem to be the victims of events often beyond their control.  No matter how much inventive planning goes into each robbery, they never seem to walk away with the prize.  It is constantly back to the drawing board for Dortmunder and each robbery calls for more innovative and daring methods.<br />At times, the dialogue reads like the old &quot;who's on first, what's on second&quot; routine made famous by Abbott and Costello.  At other times, the humor is much more subtle.  Either way, you will find yourself chuckling or, if you are in the safety of your own home, laughing out loud.  <br />Living in New York, I was amazed at how well Mr. Westlake knows the city and the outer boroughs.  Having grown up in a rather obscure part of one of these boroughs, I think that unbeknownst to me, Mr. Westlake must have lived next door to me.  He can describe stores and houses on the smallest side street with pinpoint accuracy.<br />This is not the type of book that I would normally seek out.  However, I had recently read a short story by Mr. Westlake that caught my fancy.  I liked the style of writing so much that I decided to try one of his books.  <br />If you like a well written action caper that will have you laughing throughout, I suggest you pick up a copy of &quot;The Hot Rock.&quot;  As for me, I am going to order the next few books in the Dortmunder series as soon as I submit this review.	2001-08-08
US	51702853	R1CWEKT8TAJM3Q	0892967307	672731324	The Red Room	Books	3	15	19	N	N	Am I Blue....	I don't know about you, but when I read a book by one of my favorite authors, my expectations are higher than when I read a book by an author who is unknown to me.  When the book doesn't live up to my expectations, I guess I feel so let down that I tend to be hyper-critical.  <br />This latest book by Nicci French lacked the edge and the connection to the protagonist that I experienced when reading a French book. When reading &quot;Killing Me Softly&quot; and &quot;Beneath the Skin,&quot; I was constantly asking myself...&quot;What would I have done?&quot;  I rarely found myself asking that while reading &quot;The Red Room&quot; On the contrary, I felt no connection to the protagonist, Kit Quinn.  Although the character is explored in great depth, I just could not get drawn into her life.  <br />Most of the other characters in the book were not well defined and, quite often, I wondered why they were there at all. Story lines were introduced and never fully explored or haphazardly explained leaving me a bit bewildered at times.  <br />This was one of those books where you are waiting for that stunning moment to occur. There was only one scene in the book that was reminiscent of the French style. Unfortunately, a three to four page scene is not enough to carry a book. <br />On the positive side, the book was a very fast read.  Maybe that is because I was frantically turning pages hoping to reach the point when I would feel that sense of urgency I felt when reading the prior two books.<br />When I finished this book, I had the feeling that this was the first book in a series featuring Kit Quinn, who goes from being a therapist to a forensic psychologist and super sleuth in short order.  <br />If allowed, I would give this book 2-1/2 stars. As homage to the husband and wife team of Nicci French who have given me so many hours of exciting and insightful reading pleasure, I will give the book a three-star rating.<br />I am left waiting for the next French book with the optimism that it will be up to the level of excellence of the prior two books.	2001-08-02
US	51702853	RMMSQLPPNJDBW	0553801279	337342267	A Traitor to Memory	Books	1	10	11	N	Y	Sadly...a perfect title	It is with a heavy heart that I write this review.  After waiting two years for the next installment in the Lynley/Havers saga, I feel betrayed.  This book reads more like a stand alone than part of Ms. George's excellent series. It was as if Lynley and Havers were afterthoughts and really didn't have much to do with the story. At over 700 pages, the book tends to wander, be repetitive, drag and, in total, was not a pleasant reading experience.  Perhaps if the book had been written as a stand alone and was at least 300 pages shorter, it might have worked. <br />I read an interview with Elizabeth George where she discussed how she wrote this book in a different style.  I can only believe that Ms. George was trying to write a psychological thriller. While I respect her desire to spread her wings, my advice is to leave this genre of writing to Minette Walters, Barbara Vine or Nicci French.  None of these authors were able to write the  wonderful series that Elizabeth George created ...	2001-07-21
US	51702853	RUOABPI7OT05F	0892966319	667340944	Death of a Dustman (Hamish Macbeth Mysteries, No. 17)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Have three hours to kill...this is your book!	Having just read a heart-thumping page-turning thriller, I felt the need to read something that would bring my blood pressure back to its normal rate.  &quot;Death of a Dustman,&quot; the most recent installment in M. C. Beaton's series about Hamish Macbeth, a police officer in a small village in the Scottish Highlands, was the perfect choice.  <br />This book has just the right mix of suspects, clues, romance and local color to keep you interested while not taxing your heart.  Don't expect deep character analyses, complicated plots or dastardly villians.  The darkest thing about this book is probably the weather.  <br />I have to give the book 5 stars because it delivered exactly what I expected...about three hours of non-stressful pure reading enjoyment. <br />This is the perfect book to tuck into your beach bag or carry on luggage.	2001-03-13
US	51702853	R1GQUMNFD0XU16	0312269471	58841259	Thread of Evidence	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	An afternoon delight....	Although not the best or worst book I have ever read, &quot;Thread of Evidence&quot; is worth the time and effort that goes into writing a review.  Why?  Because it is a perfect example of how enjoyable a good old fashioned British police procedural can be.  <br />Frank Smith's DCI Neil Paget is not an Inspector Morse or a DCI Lynley, but he does deliver the goods if you want to spend some time in the English countryside trying to solve a murder or two.  Take a couple of corpses, a horde of suspects, clues, red herrings and a little romantic side story and you have the makings of an &quot;afternoon delight.&quot; <br />When you have finished reading this book, you may not give it a second thought.  In fact, it is very probable that you will have determined who the killer is long before the book is over.  What you will do, however, is walk away feeling relaxed....as if you had just spent the day at a spa.	2001-02-27
US	51702853	R2VO9S04YAAWDR	0553577166	180825230	Unprintable	Books	2	6	7	N	N	What a disappointment!	I had never planned to write a review of this book, but feel duty bound to do so because it is a sterling example of what can go wrong in a series.<br />I loved &quot;Unsolicited,&quot; the first book in this series about a book publisher in London.  Being a bookaholic, I enjoyed learning about the printing and collecting of fine books.  Although a bit stiff, I liked Alex Plumtree, the protagonist, and found the mystery interesting and fast moving.  The book also met another criteria I have for reading a series - an interesting ongoing story line.<br />I was a bit disappointed in &quot;Unbound,&quot; the second book in the series because I thought it was a bit too long.  <br />Along comes &quot;Unprintable,&quot; the third installment in this series.  All I can say about this book is that if you read either the first or second book, don't bother buying the third.  It appears that Ms. Kaewert found a formula she feels comfortable with and insists on repeating it in her subsequent books.  In addition, the Alex we met in the first book has not changed one iota in the subsequent books.  It would appear that neither he nor any of the other characters have any layers to strip away.  I am finding both the pattern of the mysteries and the stagnation of the characters and story line rather tedious.  Ms. Kaewert would be well advised to take a lesson from the great Elizabeth George who knows how to keep a series fresh and the reader begging for more.	2001-02-17
US	51702853	R2Q0FXR83BYUQE	0786707720	609426348	The 25th Hour	Books	5	61	66	N	Y	I am adding this book to my top 5 all-time favorites!	At last...after reading a series of bad books, not-so-good books and, worst of all, those that had such promise but somewhere  along the way, took a wrong turn...I have read THE book! <br />&quot;The 25th Hour&quot; is one of the best books I have ever read. It is an account of the 24-hour period before a young man convicted of drug dealing is due to start serving a seven-year sentence in a Federal prison. <br />During this short time span, you will come face to face with friendship, love, fear, hope and despair. You will spend time with three men who have been friends since middle school. You will get to know them so intimately, it will feel almost intrusive. Along the way, you will meet their parents, friends, lovers and enemies. <br />I can only urge you to spend some time with these people. When you have read the last word on the last page, you will be trembling, crying or just sitting in awe of the ride you have just been on.	2001-02-10
