US	51716884	R3TP3LGM20E8H4	0967673747	655450573	Princess: A True Story of Life Behind the Veil in Saudi Arab	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Personal freedom is priceless	This is a remarkable story.  I've had this book for a while and finally got around to reading it. Book one of the trilogy begins the story of Sultana's (name changed to protect the Princess) coming of age as a female in a country that sees its female population as property.  At an early age, Sultana realized that female children are treated differently than their male counterparts. As a child, she is barely able to comprehend the source of her father's indifference toward her or her brother's cruelty.  As she matures she regrettably learns that her fate as second class citizen in Saudi is cemented by the men and religion of the country.  This is a very compelling read.  I've noticed that some reviews, many of whom appear to be Muslim, have objected to the validity of this biography.  Western reviewers seem to waiver from shock to despair at the stories revealed in the book.  I simply feel enriched.  Not knowing much about Saudi Arabia or Islam, this is a good read for its educational value.  Although the Islamic customs as depicted in the book are outside my realm of familiarity, I appreciate people's freedom to believe what they choose.  To the extent the that the religion or the men charged with keeping it strips women of human rights and freedoms, I can only say that power relinquishes nothing without demands.  Once a critical mass of the discontent is established, change is inevitable.  This is a highly recommended read and I'm looking forward to the remaining books in the trilogy.	2005-10-04
US	51716884	R1SWWLI1EZZSW0	0786885688	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	2	4	17	N	N	Slow	This one reads more like a screen play than a novel (the film is actually being released soon).  The story is a boy meets girl tale where Mirabelle, a young artist and clerk at Neiman Marcus in Los Angeles is courted by an older wealthy professional (Ray Porter) and a young slacker (Jeremy).  The narrator recounts Mirabelle's meeting and early dating rituals with both guys by alternating female and male perspectives; highlighting the differences in perception between the sexes as it relates to dating. Although Jeremy is closer in age to Mirabelle he is the opposite of Ray in most every aspect.  Ultimately Mirabelle must reconcile her love for the two men with what needs they satisfy.  \\"Shopgirl\\" reminds me of the movie \\"Translation\\" with Bill Murray.  I thought that film was boring and this written version of the same concept is not much better.	2005-09-09
US	51716884	R3QY0ZJDYL3HXK	0375712925	70225414	The Emperor of Ocean Park	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Slow start, lost interest	I tried to wait a couple of years to let the hype about this novel die down before reading it, thinking that time would allow me to approach the novel without any bias from previous critiques.  While I don't remember much about the reviews of \\"The Emperor of Ocean Park\\" when it was initially published, I do know that the story seems to lack the pace and suspense required for me to maintain any interest in it.  The story centers on unraveling the circumstances surrounding the death of the patriarch of a prominent African American family.  I was hoping that the concept along would keep me interested but the story moves too slowly.  I'm not giving up on this one but I won't try it again for a few years.	2005-08-21
US	51716884	R306P3QV1Q8OIS	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	5	0	1	N	N	An extremely well written account of the boy with an incredibly mind	\\"the curious incident of the dog in the night-time\\" is a uniquely formulated novel about an autistic boy, Christopher, who embarks on an investigation to find the murderer of a neighbor's dog.  The story is told in first person by Christopher.  Within the landscape of the novel, the author is able to create an atmosphere where the reader not only understands the inner workings of Christopher's autistic mind, but we are also able to connect with Christopher on a human level.  Christopher's investigation into the murder of Wellington leads him to a discovery that his highly logical mind struggles to process.  With this discovery, Christopher embarks on a journey of self-preservation that that proves his intellect and independence.  This is one of the best novel's I've read this year and I will be recommending it for years to come.	2005-08-10
US	51716884	R3F5V4AJ6HO39T	0976118106	681760545	Railroaded!	Books	1	7	11	N	N	Waste of time	[...]<br /><br />Although \\"Railroaded!\\" is an excellent concept for a novel, [...]It was a very slow read for me; primarily because the author spends too much time telling and not enough time showing.  The story reads like a transcript of a trial instead of a creative exploration of the many issues raised in the novel.  While I think I understand what the author was trying to accomplish - i.e. write a story featuring a well educated, professional black athlete and role model who is victimized by a corrupt judicial process and racially motivated sexual desires - he employs none of the tools of effective story telling in his efforts to achieve that goal.  [...]  While I applaud Whitfield for getting his first novel published, I can't recommend it as a must read.  Save your money.	2005-07-24
US	51716884	R1VKCJAXWMXXD0	0375758615	878221461	Mapping the Edge: A Novel	Books	2	7	12	N	N	2.5 Stars - What a tease!	Anna, the novel's main character,  is a thirty nine year old single mother living in England and writing for an area paper.  Feeling that she has lost some of the more spontaneous and sensuous aspects of her life to career and motherhood, Anna places a want ad in the singles section of the local newspaper and decides to write an article about the experience. She connects with a married man and the two soon start an affair that turns out to be much more.  Anna's new lover invites her to rendezvous in Italy where the two take in the romantic art and history of the area while satisfying their sexual appetite for each other.  While in Italy, Anna learns of her new lovers true intentions and falls prey to another man's fantasies.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Anna's delayed return from Italy causes great concern on the home front.  As her best friends become more alarmed about her delay, they contact the police to report her as missing.  While the police investigate, the best friends become consumed with trying to understand Anna's motives while trying to keep things as normal as possible for her six year old daughter, Lily.  At what point should the best friends start to move on with life without Anna?  What is it like to have a best friend disappear?  Who assumes responsibility for the child?  These are a few of the issues that Dunant tries to address while peeling away at the psychological underpinnings that motivate Anna's actions.<br /><br />One review of \\"Mapping the Edge\\" purports it to be \\"Very smart . . . a riveting thriller.\\"  I found that the novel hovered at the very edge of a great thriller but never fully engaged me.  The pace was much slower than I like for a thriller and I didn't find the story very suspenseful at all.  While the writing is proficient and the story has great potential, the two never come together to create a suspenseful or thrilling read.  With that said, I must acknowledge that perhaps the reading experience may be different for women, who by personal experience may be better able to connect with Anna's circumstances.  For those of us not in the know, the novel becomes one big tease of a thriller with its ending being the greatest letdown.ho by personal experience may be better able to connect with Anna's circumstances.  For those of us not in the know, the novel becomes one big tease of a thriller with its ending being the greatest letdown. <br />	2005-07-20
US	51716884	R4YEEKVPG8BGC	0375506519	953467681	Chocolate Sangria: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Barely a mediocre read.	\\"Chocolate Sangria\\" follows the life of its protagonist, Juanita, from her untimely birth through young adulthood.  Born to a young black man and teenage white girl, Juanita is given away at birth and raised by her family's maid, Hattie.  Pick any character from any story that features the all loving, God fearing, stern asexual, Southern black woman character and you pretty much know Aunt Hattie.  As a young child, Juanita is regularly teased, taunted and beaten up by the other girls in her housing project because of her light complexion and green eyes.  Pick any tragic mulatto unable to gain acceptance in either the black or white communities, struggling to find herself and her true identify and you pretty much know Juanita.  Befriended at an early age by Scooter, the grandson of Aunt Hattie's neighbor, the two survive growing up in the projects of New York to become young adults.  Pick any effeminate, sassy, well dressed gay character from any story and you pretty much know Scooter.<br /><br />On their daily bus ride to school or work, Juanita and Scooter have an encounter that changes the course of their young lives.  During this encounter we meet the story's antagonist, Jorge, and his antithesis, Conan.  During this storyline, love meets evil head on and the battle for goodness ensues.  Don't expect any surprises with this plot; things will turn out exactly the way you think. I found that the prose lacks nuance and complexity and the characters in the novel lack originality.  The author relies on generalized cultural aspects of African-American and Puerto Rican peoples to populate the story.  While there is, of course, a modicum of truth in all generalizations, piling them one upon another as a means of character development does not make for an engaging or aesthetically appealing read.<br /><br />There are; however, many messages for young adults in the story - obey your parents, love and respect yourself, be charitable to others - but they are delivered without subtlety.  While that style may be entertaining for young adults or light readers, it does nothing for folks looking for creative style and innovative storytelling.  This one came to me by recommendation of a book club member and while I can't recommend it to my reading circle I do think it will be entertaining for young or light readers.subtlety.  While that style may be entertaining for young adults or light readers, it does nothing for folks looking for creative style and innovative storytelling.  This one came to me by recommendation of a book club member and while I can't recommend it to my reading circle I do think it will be entertaining for young or light readers.  <br />	2005-06-15
US	51716884	R3F3S03WNLXTSQ	0786888156	113525174	Erasure	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	A  great discussion book	\\"Erasure\\" is a complex look at race,identity and publishing. The novel is narrated in first person by Thelonious \\"Monk\\" Ellison.  Monk is the youngest of three children from a prominent east coast black family.  He is a Harvard educated writer and holds most favorite son status within his family.  Although Monk has published previous novels ranging from a rework of Aeschylus' \\"The Persians\\" to a novel featuring black characters, settings and experiences, none of them resulted in top seller status  in the way \\"We's Lives in Da Ghetto\\" has.  \\"We's Lives in Da Ghetto\\" was written by a first time novelist and is accepted by the publisher as the \\"truth\\" of the black experience.  In fact, the success of \\"We's Lives in Da Ghetto\\" has caused Monk's publishers to encourage him to abandon his writings on any topic the publishers view as \\"not black enough\\".  Of course as a black writer Monk can only write about black things.  Frustrated by that erroneous notion Monk pens, under the pseudonym Stagg R. Leigh, a novel that highlights just about every black stereotype known to man.  The novel was to be an affront to publishers and readers.  The book is immediately picked up by a publisher and touted as the most authentic novel of the black experience ever written.  The film rights are sold for a handsome amount and Stagg R. Leigh's work is positioned for early release and guaranteed best seller status.<br /><br />At times funny and always insightful, \\"Erasure\\" serves not only as an indictment of how racism influences publishing but also as a reminder that there is no such thing as \\"the\\" black experience.  The writing is sharp, well paced and poignant.  This is the first novel I've read by Everrett but it won't be the last. Highly Recommended.	2005-05-24
US	51716884	RD75R3JKVWMF	0670891525	124161593	The Sooterkin	Books	2	2	4	N	N	2.5 Stars	Alright, so this one didn't turn out the way I hoped.  I've had great success in the past when making a spontaneous literary purchase without knowing anything of the author or novel.  Realizing that it's about a fifty/fifty chance of getting something enjoyable I figure why not take a chance. This one didn't pay off.  \\"The Sooterkin\\" is a novel set on an 1820's Australian island.  Gilling does an excellent job of recreating the town and its people in the imagination of the reader but was unable to keep this reader interested in the lives of the characters.  The story takes a look at how the people of Van Diemen Land deal with the birth of a child that appears to be half human half seal.  Although the town people's reaction range from the simply curious to the scientifically prodding, the family of the monster child embraces him for the blessing from God that he must surly be.  This is a great idea for a story that certainly took a great deal of work on the part of the author but ultimately I believe the language and the style got in the way of the story for me.  I couldn't quite appreciate it.  There were a few funny moments but not enough to compensate for the effort to keep reading the story.  With that said, I must give a nod to Gilling for writing one of the best hooks I've ever read:  \\"Pardon the stench. You have hardly turned the page and a blast of putrid air has pricked your nostrils.  The smell of mud and smoke and sickness, of spoiled meat and mouldy straw and slops left to rot in the street.\\"  What an excellent beginning.  Good luck getting to the end.	2005-04-27
US	51716884	R33BCLUMOQO5W3	0679411763	262045618	Mother of Sorrows	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Solid Read	\\"Mother of Sorrows\\" is a richly woven collection of stories that examines the life of its unknown narrator in relationship to his only brother and parents. The narrator's relationship with his mother is based primarily on his fascination with her glamorous life and a deep seeded need to protect her from anything that doesn't bring her joy.  He realizes early in life that his connection with his mother is seen as problematic by his father who is cautiously concerned with his son's feminine ways.  The death of his father cements his protective instincts for his mother as she descends into a state of depression.  His desire to protect his mother also solidifies his fear of revealing his sexual identify to her.  Davis, the narrator's brother becomes withdrawn and deeply saddened by their father's death.  Davis's relationship with their father mimics that of his brother's relationship with their mother.  As the brothers age, the narrator learns that Davis concealed his sexuality during their adolescence as well.  As an adult, Davis reveals his homosexuality to his mother causing ongoing conflicts and further fragmenting an already fragile relationship with the family.  Davis finds solace in drugs and eventually dies of an overdose while the narrator takes shelter in the achievements he's made in his academic and professional life.<br /><br />McCann has assembled in this collection the fear, love and resentment of two brothers coming to terms with their homosexuality in an environment that insists on them suppressing it.  The author has constructed the brother's relationship within the context of the biblical brothers whose competition for the respect of the Father turns one against the other.  \\"Mother of Sorrows\\" is movingly rendered in language that is tender and precise. A torch song coming of age story that many in the life can identify with.  Very well done.	2005-04-27
US	51716884	R1HC8PHP4PSPZM	0385496826	721609478	Some People, Some Other Place	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Superb.	\\"Some People, Some Other Place\\" is a cautionary tale that examines life - its love and losses, joys and pitfalls.  The story reads like an ancient fable cloaked in spiritual wisdom and practical experience.  Narrated by an unborn child from the spirit realm, the novel reveals the story of Eula Too and the inhabitants of Dream Street in a town named Place.  Eula Too is the daughter of dirt poor sharecroppers.  Her lot in life appears sealed when at the age of five she is recruited by her mother to help keep the house and raise the children.  Eula Too's life changes when she is befriended by Miss Hart, a neighbor and former school teacher, who teaches her to read.  With reading comes dreams and Eula Too decides at the age of fifteen that she can no longer live the cutoff, deprived life she's been born into.  Full of hope and the desire for a life better than the one she has, Eula Too set out for Chicago and the possibilities that the city offers.<br /><br />It is in route to Chicago that Eula Too's and Elizabeth's lives intersect.  Elizabeth rescues Eula Too from the side of a road after she is brutally raped by the man she has trusted to take her to Chicago.  Elizabeth is the Madame of an elite brothel in a Chicago suburb.  Eula Too reminds Elizabeth of a dear friend from her hometown, Place, and decides to employ the young girl as her assistant and confidant.  During this phase of Eula Too's life, she is educated by a private tutor and has access to all the finer things in life that money can buy.  It is in this place, surrounded by people who know the cost of everything and the value of nothing - least of all love and friendship - that Eula Too's life begins to lose meaning.  When a family tragedy erupts for both Eula Too and Elizabeth, they return to a different Place with more life changing experiences in store for Eula Too.<br /><br />Cooper demonstrates in this novel how every life depends on another.  How people and communities can implode in the absence of love. Not the possessive love that money tries to buy or the selfish love that can destroy lives, but the kind and generous love that can make you free.  The author provides insightful commentary on the human condition within the socio-political context of a country where money rules and people are its servants.  \\"Some People, Some Other Place\\" is a richly woven tale that is sure to engage and enlighten.  The primary characters in the novel are fully drawn each with circumstances that easily remind you of people and problems that exist in real life.  This is a novel to be read, deeply contemplated and shared.  It is superb story telling with powerful messages.  Highly Recommended!of love. Not the possessive love that money tries to buy or the selfish love that can destroy lives, but the kind and generous love that can make you free.  The author provides insightful commentary on the human condition within the socio-political context of a country where money rules and people are its servants.  \\"Some People, Some Other Place\\" is a richly woven tale that is sure to engage and enlighten.  The primary characters in the novel are fully drawn each with circumstances that easily remind you of people and problems that exist in real life.  This is a novel to be read, deeply contemplated and shared.  It is superb story telling with powerful messages.  Highly Recommended! <br />	2005-04-23
US	51716884	R1PDOYJEKFSMNO	1594480001	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	As good as it gets!	Rarely do I encounter a story that is so powerful, so compelling, so beautiful and tragic that it renders me nearly speechless.  \\"The Kite Runner\\" portrays the interwoven lives of an Afghan family and its servants.  The novel begins with Amir, its narrator, contemplating his past after receiving a call from a long time family friend in Pakistan.  \\"I became what I am today at the age of twelve, on a frigid overcast day in the winter of 1975\\". This is one of the best opening lines I've read in a while.  It's filled with intrigue, and opens the door to a wealth of creative possibilities.  And the beautiful thing about this story is that the author masters the possibilities - from the first sentence to the very last.<br /><br />\\"The Kite Runner\\" is not only a well written masterpiece of literary creativity but also a lesson in humanity and love.  Hosseini packs the story with aspects of Muslim religion and Afghan culture. The story is as joyful as it is tragic.  The writing is powerfully imagistic and emotive.  The characters are complex and flawlessly drawn.  Plot summaries or detailed description of the story won't do this novel justice.  It's best to simply rush to your neighborhood bookstore or library (chances are it will be check out) get a copy, and prepare for a reading experience that may change your life.  Hosseini is at the height of writing perfection with this debut novel.  Given the many political, religious and social conflicts in the world, I am grateful that this story has been told and hopeful that it will change lives for the better.  Kudos!	2005-04-02
US	51716884	R154WQM70JJNP3	0786884053	655467493	The Men of Brewster Place: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great things do come in small packages.	Great things do come in small packages.  \\"The Men of Brewster Place\\" is a look into the lives on the male side of the street.  The novel is narrated, in part, by Ben, a building janitor who is the eyes and ears of the neighborhood.  Each chapter portrays the life of a specific character - his beginnings, middle and end.  Brother Jerome is cursed with the limitations of mental retardation but is blessed with musical abilities that soothe and comfort the community.  Basil devotes himself to an honorable cause in order to assuage the guilt of running away from a problem that destroys his mother's life.  Eugene searches for himself and an escape from his wife.  He finds both but pays a hefty price.  Reverend Woods builds a legacy with the help of his congregation only to have it destroyed by the conscious of the community.  C.C. sells his soul to the street in a stupor of confusion about what it is to be a man.  Abshu fights to keep Brewster Place alive in the face of political desires to raze the neighborhood and rebuild it for middle income residents.<br /><br />Naylor has delivered a powerful rendition of these men's existence on Brewster Place.  The novel is introspective, layered and succinct.  It is a significant achievement on Naylor's part that she is able to accomplish so much in so few pages.  Each of the primary characters are fully developed and intricately portrayed.  The writing is crisp, imagistic and emotive.  Although the lives of the men in this novel may not always end on a happy note, there are powerful lessons that can be learned from each of the men's lives.  You simply have to read the other side of the sentence, or hear the quieter voice speaking from the page.  The novel closes on the wings of possibility and the certainty of a promise.  While this is the first novel that I've read by Gloria Naylor I'm sure it won't be the last.  Enjoy!	2005-03-19
US	51716884	R1E3WDXSFYCOO4	0743497155	728706271	In Search of Pretty Young Black Men: A Novel	Books	3	15	19	N	N	Not bad but not great either	\\"In Search of Pretty Young Black Men\\" depicts black bourgeois life in the factitious Los Angeles suburb of Baldwin Hills.  As the story unfolds we learn of Maggie's marriage to Dr. Lamont Lester-Allegro.  Lamont is the son of the most powerful man in Baldwin Hills. After a near fatal accident, Maggie is nursed back to health by Dr. Lester-Allegro.  During Maggie's recovery, doctor and patient develop a mutual attraction; \\"The small scars had healed surreptitiously and the only telltale sign of her hospital stay was here obvious schoolgirl's crush on her handsome and ever attentive physician.  And as if designed by romantic oracles with sweet-ending stories, young Doctor Lamont Lester-Allegro found himself equally enchanted by his patient.\\"  Soon after Maggie's recovery, the two are married and learn shortly thereafter that Maggie is pregnant with her former boyfriend's child.  The timing of the pregnancy is one aspect of the novel that seems somewhat contrived given that Maggie would have to have been pregnant while in the hospital and you'd think during her recovery someone at the hospital would have discovered the gestation.  Pressured by her husband's anger with the pregnancy and the smear that it would cause to the Lester-Allegro family reputation, Maggie decides to secretly put her child up for adoption. Maggie and Lamont attempt to start their marriage anew unaware of the future ramifications of the adoption.  They are able to ignite a small flame under their marriage but over time the union deteriorates, leaving both Maggie and Lester open to explore sexual gratification elsewhere.<br /><br />Center stage in the novel is Dorian Moore, the object of everyone's desires.  Dorian is an escort who services the wealthy women and men of Baldwin Hills.  Elaine, Maggie's best friend and Dorian's pimp, arrange a hookup between the two.  Throughout the novel, Maggie reminisces about her sole encounter with Dorian.  The early scenes - within the first 30 pages - depicting their encounter represent some of the most subtle and imagistic writing in the novel.  Unfortunately, the author's writing style looses some of its grace as the novel moves on.  At times the story nearly collapses under the weight of lazy writing and mistrust of the reader's abilities and sensibilities.  Multiple usages of certain adjectives - \\"beautiful\\", \\"stern-handsome\\", \\"black-as-midnight\\" - and repetitive descriptors - \\"mumbling, mumbling, mumbling\\", \\"back and forth, back and forth, forth and back\\", and \\"beautiful, beautiful\\" - adds an element of corniness to the story.  Abrupt shifts in setting were quite disruptive to the flow of the novel. Awkward sentences preceded and followed creatively written ones. Overtly decadent and vulgar scenes are followed by wonderfully subtle sexy ones.  Despite what I believe to be poor editing (the novel could have been a few pages shorter), the author is able to hold the story together.<br /><br />Overall, \\"In Search of Pretty Black Men\\", survives despite the bumps and stumblings of the narrative.  It's a brief story with enough twists and sex to keep you interested and the author manages to weave tidbits of significant historical events into the narrative as well.  It's worth the read but take heed to the author's (through one of his characters) warning:  \\"Hey lookahere Brothaman I have to write what I'm feeling and if what I'm writing is too much for them to digest well then maybe they need to find something more suitable to they digestive system like chicken see `cause I write chittlin' and a lot of people don't like chittlin' and that's okay `cause for the people that like chittlin' they read my [****] stand up and slap they mamma but for the otha ones [**** ] `em and feed `em chicken.\\"icting their encounter represent some of the most subtle and imagistic writing in the novel.  Unfortunately, the author's writing style looses some of its grace as the novel moves on.  At times the story nearly collapses under the weight of lazy writing and mistrust of the reader's abilities and sensibilities.   Multiple usages of certain adjectives - \\"beautiful\\", \\"stern-handsome\\", \\"black-as-midnight\\" - and repetitive descriptors - \\"mumbling, mumbling, mumbling\\", \\"back and forth, back and forth, forth and back\\", and \\"beautiful, beautiful\\" - adds an element of corniness to the story.  Abrupt shifts in setting were quite disruptive to the flow of the novel. Awkward sentences preceded and followed creatively written ones. Overtly decadent and vulgar scenes are followed by wonderfully subtle sexy ones.  Despite what I believe to be poor editing (the novel could have been a few pages shorter), the author is able to hold the story together.  <br /> <br />Overall, \\"In Search of Pretty Black Men\\", survives despite the bumps and stumblings of the narrative.  It's a brief story with enough twists and sex to keep you interested and the author manages to weave tidbits of significant historical events into the narrative as well.  It's worth the read but take heed to the author's (through one of his characters) warning:  \\"Hey lookahere Brothaman I have to write what I'm feeling and if what I'm writing is too much for them to digest well then maybe they need to find something more suitable to they digestive system like chicken see `cause I write chittlin' and a lot of people don't like chittlin' and that's okay `cause for the people that like chittlin' they read my [****] stand up and slap they mamma but for the otha ones [**** ] `em and feed `em chicken.\\" <br />	2005-02-22
US	51716884	R84OVPKSCGJDM	014023313X	619669899	The Stone Diaries	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Well Executed	My initial interest in this novel was its Pulitzer Prize winning status.  The family tree in the beginning of the novel motivated me to read the first page (I'm working on a family tree of my relatives as of this writing). The first page led me to the next and each page thereafter held my attention.  Although the story never took off for me in a suspenseful or dramatic way, Shields managed to keep me interested in Daisy's life until the very end.<br /><br />Born from a Stone, into a life supported by stone, and ultimately returned to stone; so is the life of Daisy Goodwill Flett.  From birth to death, Daisy lives the expected life of a North American woman during the first half of the twentieth century.  The boldest decision Daisy makes in the novel is the decision to marry the man who acted as her uncle while she was being raised by the man and his mother.  Now that's the kind of family dirt that could be the theme for a trashy daytime talk shows but Shields folds it into the story without much fan fare and with little shock effect (not unlike Daisy's life).  For most of Daisy's life, events sort of happen to her and although her response to many of life's challenges are heroic in some aspects, she generally tends to live a life flat lined by responsibility for or to others until the death of her husband turns into an opportunity for her to start anew.  Daisy's life as a working woman from 1955 to 1964 is the most vibrant and creatively rendered aspect of the novel.  The author uses a series of letters to Daisy from various people to not only advance the story nine years but also to depict what life can be like when you are fully engaged with what brings you joy.  When your life feels purposeful.<br /><br />The lesson that I take away from Daisy's life is to be careful not to let life happen to you like an accident.  It's important to try to exert some influence where you can or the everyday omission of influence can form a life of regrets that are only recognizable in death.  \\"The Stone Diaries\\" is an immensely introspective examination of the cycles of life.  Even though the lives of the characters are without much spark or excitement, they are portrayed in a way that compels you to take notice and to care.  Whether it's the superb writing, the sublime story or the subdued pace, the novel works well and was a thoroughly enjoyable read.ecognizable in death.   \\"The Stone Diaries\\" is an immensely introspective examination of the cycles of life.  Even though the lives of the characters are without much spark or excitement, they are portrayed in a way that compels you to take notice and to care.  Whether it's the superb writing, the sublime story or the subdued pace, the novel works well and was a thoroughly enjoyable read.   <br />	2005-02-02
US	51716884	R1DXRAQ2WV7R5E	0060975547	687453301	Love Medicine	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Powerful portrayal of a Native American Experience	\\"Love Medicine\\" is the lyrical tale of the Nanapush, Kashpaw and Lamartine families of Native Americans living on a reservation in the Dakotas.  Each chapter peels at the layered relationships among the families and reveals how their lives intersect and extend to encompass all that is traditional and new in the Native Americans experience.  Told from multiple points of view, the narrative is capable of transporting one to a place where truth, like fruit from the tree of life, hangs low for the picking.  I saw myself and my culture represented in the stories of the Chippewa.  \\"Love Medicine\\" is tragic and triumphant, magical and inspiring. The novel's exquisite symbolism is drawn in succinct prose that pulsates with the vibrancy of the characters and culture.  This was a great read recommended by a cousin in high school who didn't quite like the story.  After reading the novel I can understand my cousin's lukewarm response to the text, for our family's - the African American family's - experience seems inextricably tied to that of the Native Americans depicted in the novel.  I found it particularly interesting how the effects of oppression are the same regardless of the group of people being oppressed.  Having that experience rendered with such clarity and unflinching honesty can be a lot to take in when you're at the height of discovering who you are, why you are and where you belong.  I'm looking forward to a lengthy discussion with my little cousin and recommend that all high schools add this to their required reading list.	2005-01-09
US	51716884	R2YEIHATD3KV9H	0385721420	120680919	Three Junes	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A good read	In \\"Three Junes\\", Glass explores the intricacies of relationships among family, friends and lovers.  Paul is the patriarch of the McLeod family, a Scottish clan consisting of three sons; Fenno, the eldest, and twins Dennis and David.  The story begins in Greece where Paul is vacationing after the death of his wife.  Through shifting scenes and flashbacks, Glass reveals the lives of her characters and their relationship to each other with meticulous detail and artistry.  Fenno leaves Scotland after college and settles in New York where he tries to negotiate life and relationships during the AIDS crisis of the eighties.  While in New York, Fenno befriends a host of people who teach him about love and loss in ways quite unlike the detached manner he's experienced in his family.  After Paul dies, the brothers gather in Scotland for his funeral.  During their time in Scotland, the brothers learn how each of their lives was shaped by their parent's relationship.  In this section of the novel, Glass does a superb job of depicting how siblings raised in the same household by the same parents can have vastly different experiences.<br /><br />In addition to the storyline that explores the McLeod family relationships, are the storylines that examine relationships of the non-familial sort; the love with which Fenno cares for a dying friend and his pets.  The love of life as expressed by Tony who finds it easier to love life and freedom than commit to the day-to-day challenges of loving people.<br /><br />\\"Three Junes\\" was an enjoyable read overall although at time it moved a bit slowly for my liking.  Glass's writing and imaginative abilities are on point.  Each character, no matter how minimal, is flushed out in sufficient detail to make him/her real and endearing.  The story is a complex and layered study in love - its hardships and rewards.  My favorite line from the novel: \\"Mind what you love.  For that matter, mind how you are loved.\\"  The novel was well worth the time spent reading it.time spent reading it. <br />	2004-11-27
US	51716884	R9LZY0EVTX04O	0375706410	663303744	Waiting: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Waited for the end . . .	I have to agree with many other reviews on this one.  I spent the first 100 pages of this novel waiting for the story to pick up the pace.  The story is about a love affair in perpetuity.  Manna Wu and Lin Kong are comrades and soul mates who meet while working at a hospital in China during the Cultural Revolution.  The relationship has one huge hurdle, Lin is married.  Although the marriage was arranged by his parents and based on the parents' need for elderly care, Lin is bound to the union by tradition and law.  Each year, Lin returns to his village from his job in the city to request the court to grant him a divorce from his wife.  Each year, the request is denied and Lin returns to the city where he and Manna's relationship grow more intense - the absence of any physical expression of their love also serves to intensify their bond.  Finally, after waiting eighteen years, Lin is granted a divorce from his wife with the understanding that he is to pay alimony and find their daughter a job in the city.  He and Manna are married and begin their life legitimately as husband and wife.  Lin, newly married - and unlike his previous marriage, living with his wife - finds the daily demands of marriage exhausting.  Soon, Lin begins to questions his love for Manna and his decision to leave his first wife.<br /><br />Ultimately, the novel explores the nature of love and personal commitment in the face of social and government restrictions.  Although \\"Waiting\\" starts off slow, it picks up a bit in the later half of the book.  Ha Jin does an excellent job with setting and depicting the Chinese atmosphere during the Cultural Revolution.  This wasn't a bad read, just a slow one.  Perhaps it was the author's intent to have the reader experience waiting in the way the characters do.  So, is the grass greener on the other side?  Well, like most things, it depends on the eyes through which the observation is being made. I'm not suggesting that you run out and buy this one but if it crosses your path give it a try.f it crosses your path give it a try.   <br />	2004-10-26
US	51716884	R2LDQ3GX1BIZWC	0671025368	758176148	The Coldest Winter Ever	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Very well done!	\\"The Coldest Winter Ever\\" is the story of the Santiaga family as told by Winter, the oldest daughter.  Ricky Santiaga is the family patriarch and head of a drug and crime operation in Brooklyn.  During his reign Santiaga ruled the streets dishing out rewards and punishment in accordance to the laws defined by the trade.  After the Santiaga operation is busted and Ricky is imprisoned, Winter takes to the streets where she tries to honor her father by earning enough money to provide for her mother and younger sisters.  Only street life never pays for long and Winter is dead set on finding this out the hard way.  Through friendships and betrayals, high times and low, Winter stays focused on the single most important thing she has learned from her family - make money at any cost.  Sister Souljah has created a story that rings true to the characters and life she's trying to depict.  The novel is well paced and aptly captures the language and rhythm of the rap era.  Souljah has done for the hip-hop generation what Iceberg Slim and Donald Goines were able to do for the old school players of the 1960s and 1970s.  Although there were moments in the novel where Winter's voice appeared a bit too eloquent for the seventeen year old high school dropout, it did not render the story any less believable.  One of the key messages I took from the novel is that talent misdirected can yield devastating results; for the skills exhibited by Santiaga and Winter are the same skills exhibited by any legitimate business person or entrepreneur.  Souljah had done a wonderful thing with \\"The Coldest Winter Ever\\"; it's the type of novel that can change lives.  Highly Recommended.	2004-10-12
US	51716884	R3M23NT7CH7RBF	1400051886	436479909	Within Arm's Reach: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Live the life of your choosing	\\"Within Arm's Reach\\" is the story of four generations of the McLaughlin family.  The novel explores the family's relationship by way of first person perspectives from various family members.  Catherine is the family matriarch and the person whose expectations the others try to live up to.  The daughter of Irish American immigrants, Catherine is raised with strict catholic beliefs and the notion that individual strength is paramount to her and her offspring's survival.  The loss of three children steels Catherine's beliefs and results in a family that is strong but lacks bravery.  The family's love for one another is generally expressed in terms of control and restricts the emotional and spiritual growth of the family.  Kelly, the oldest of Catherine's children has become a successful business woman but lacks a close relationship with her daughters and husband.  Jealously and envy are the primary emotions displayed among Kelly and her siblings rendering their relationship distant and emotionally void.  Gracie, Kelly's oldest daughter becomes pregnant out of wedlock.  As Catherine works to reconcile her relationship with her deceased parents and husband (through visits from the dead and visions), she hopes that the pregnancy will reunite her family and strengthen their bond.<br /><br />Napolitano has written a well drawn story of a family whose love has parlayed its members.  The language is clear, concise and imagistic.  The characters are well flushed out and believable.  Overall, the novel was enjoyable and worth the time spent reading it.	2004-09-22
US	51716884	R32HSYZWAPFA2D	1582342725	479734481	Hunting in Harlem: A Novel	Books	1	7	14	N	N	What a flop!	The opening paragraph was the best part of this novel.  It offered great promise for an engaging story but failed to deliver.  The story opens with three ex-cons being recruited by a community development organization to help return Harlem to black folks.  As the author clunks along with the story, we learn of the many \\"accidents\\" that befall the undesirables in the neighborhood and get a few obviously placed statements about attributes that need to be acquired by African Americans.  \\"Bobby actually believed in what Lester and the congressman were telling him, bought into all of it from the start.  Horus was the same way, never questioning, never complaining.\\" This is only one example of the didactic tone of the novel and the author's lack of creativity in trying to make his point.  There was more than one instance when I felt that the author was actually trying to trick me into finishing the novel.  Using an unsuccessful book, \\"The Great Work\\", written by one of the characters, Johnson discusses the mistreatment of black literature and uses this commentary to entice his reader to stick with the book.  That ploy simply didn't work on me.  After 100 pages into the novel I simply gave up.  The writing is dull, the characters are flat and the story lacks any feel of realism.  Furthermore, the story seems absent of language that engages the imagination or paints a picture.  He dictates each chapter like a witness at a deposition.  I'm not sure what other reviewers found in this book that I missed but I certainly can't recommend this one.	2004-08-27
US	51716884	R1POUB6UIKM1QP	1400041600	777334531	Father's Day	Books	2	5	7	N	N	This story never fully engaged me.	\\"Father's Day\\" revolves around a mother and son as they deal with the death of their husband and father.  The central conflict seems to be internal to Matthew as he tries to make sense of his relationship with his father in the wake of his dad's suicide.  Matthew becomes addicted to a telephone dating service that is more focused on anonymous sex than long term dating.  As he works through internal conflicts with his therapist, Matthew learns that the phone service and sex clubs are only devices that he uses to shelter himself from his real issue - the lack of an emotional connection with his father (surprise, surprise).  Dad seems to have suffered from depression but that's never really flushed out in the story.<br /><br />Although the writing is solid and the novel short, I had a very difficult time staying interested in the characters.  I forced myself to finish the book thinking that some revelatory scene in later pages would pull everything together.  It never happened for me.  Can't recommend this one.	2004-08-23
US	51716884	R1R2V1BP2YT2E6	0060934972	181072646	The Notorious Dr. August: His Real Life and Crimes	Books	5	2	4	N	N	One of the best portrayals of love and loss I've read to dat	\\"The Notorious Dr. August. . .\\" is the story of a family forced together by adverse circumstances and unconditional love.  Isaac and Fitz meet during the end of the Civil War.  Isaac is a slave fighting with his master in the Confederate Army.  Fitz, an indigent Irish immigrant, is being escorted to a military camp by a Union Army soldier to perform a musical duet with his uncle.  Isaac's camp tracks Fitz's entourage.  In the pursuit, Fitz is thrown from his horse and left on the road by his uncle and the confederate soldier.  Isaac's camp captures and takes Fitz as a prisoner of war.  During an overnight encampment, the Confederate troops are ambushed.  The Union soldiers kill all of the Confederate soldiers, sparing only Isaac and Fitz.  The former slave and gypsy musician are bound not only by their status on the social scale of post-Civil War America, but also by a mutual love that is both physical and emotional.<br /><br />Fitz takes on a variety of jobs as a pianist.  Playing at brothels, for private showings, and ultimately for an audience.  His is able to communicate with the dead and pass on information to survivors through his music.  Isaac remains with him.  Unable to escape the fact of his race, he masquerades as Fitz's man servant and later participates in Fitz's ruse as a musical conduit for the dead.  Their performances take them to Europe and the Orient where Fitz - billed as Dr. August, the Metaphysical Pianist - plays for wealthy aristocrats and royalty.  Their day-to-day living, lush at times, is made possible by the generosity of their clientele.  On their voyage from New York to Europe, Isaac encounters a young woman, Alice. She is traveling to Europe from Connecticut to work as a governess for a wealthy family.  Isaac is overwhelmed by Alice's presence and the connection he feels between them.  The affection for Alice forces Isaac to reconcile his love for Fitz with his religious upbringing by a master who was also a minister.  When Isaac and Alice marry, the triad remains together as Isaac's only source of employment is through Fitz and his music.  As Alice's and Isaac's relationship deepen, Fitz is bereft of the loss of he and Isaac's physical relationship but maintains a deep love for his friend.<br /><br />When Isaac and Alice begin a family of their own, Isaac struggles with the need to provide for his family in a world where his race limits his ability to do so.  As a shield against the racism and indifference that is a relentless part of his everyday existence, Isaac becomes steeped in religion, righteousness, and impeccable moral character.  With this armor, he is also better able to restrict his love for Fitz. During a private performance in Europe, Fitz meets a grieving widow and feigns a musical communication with her dead son.  Fitz later realizes that the woman, Lady Ashe, is a friend - and former prostitute - from his days at the brothel.  Lady Ashe invites him to return to Turkey with her.  She provides a home for Fitz, Isaac and his family in exchange for Fitz's services as a musical medium.  During their stay with Lady Ashe, Fitz befriends and develops a relationship with the woman's sole remaining son, Freddie.  When Isaac becomes aware of the relationship, he is engulfed with jealously and moral indignation.  He confronts Fitz demanding that he end the relationship and his sinful fornication with the teenager.  Fitz complies, needing Isaacs love and respect more than Freddie's.  When son and mother commit double suicide - he feeling unlovable and then she, feeling loveless - the triad's family spirals into despair and misfortune.  Feeling responsible for Freddie's death and as a result Lady Ashe's, Isaac's moral indignation turns to guilt.<br /><br />Unable to shoulder the guilt of his actions, his inability to provide for his family and his guilt for not being in America and contributing to the support of freed slaves during reconstruction, Isaac abandons his family to the care of Fitz.  Distraught by the absence of Isaac and faced with homelessness by the death Lady Ashe, Alice and Fitz return to New York with the children in hopes of getting help from Alice's cousin.  Upon their arrival in New York, Alice's cousin learns of her interracial marriage to Isaac and meets their biracial children.  Disapproving of the union, the cousin is unable to allow the family to stay with her.  Fitz takes his act to Coney Island where he is able to earn a living from his communications with the dead.<br /><br />\\"The Notorious Dr. August . . . \\"is an incredible adventure story that spans the globe from the late nineteenth to the early twentieth century.  The story is dictated by Fitz to Tristan, Isaac's oldest son from his marriage to Alice.  The novel's tone is perfectly pitched for the period and the language flows like music.  It is an absolute treat to experience an author for the first time through such a tightly drawn and flawlessly imagined story.  I owe a big thanks to my neighbor who passed this one to me.  Highly Recommended!e care of Fitz.  Distraught by the absence of Isaac and faced with homelessness by the death Lady Ashe, Alice and Fitz return to New York with the children in hopes of getting help from Alice's cousin.  Upon their arrival in New York, Alice's cousin learns of her interracial marriage to Isaac and meets their biracial children.  Disapproving of the union, the cousin is unable to allow the family to stay with her.  Fitz takes his act to Coney Island where he is able to earn a living from his communications with the dead.   <br /> <br />\\"The Notorious Dr. August . . . \\"is an incredible adventure story that spans the globe from the late nineteenth to the early twentieth century.  The story is dictated by Fitz to Tristan, Isaac's oldest son from his marriage to Alice.   The novel's tone is perfectly pitched for the period and the language flows like music.  It is an absolute treat to experience an author for the first time through such a tightly drawn and flawlessly imagined story.  I owe a big thanks to my neighbor who passed this one to me.  Highly Recommended! <br />	2004-08-20
US	51716884	R1YHMJOMDQI2OE	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	12	17	N	N	Entertaining and Suspensful	After over a year on the national bestseller lists I finally decided to read it.  I was surprised to find that the novel was not only a well written mystery but contained some of the most intriguing thoughts on Christian doctrine that I've come across to date.  While the novel's interpretation of religious symbolism and history has caused a flutter of derogatory commentary and reviews from some, there are many who can appreciate the storyline from a purely novelistic perspective:  it's great material that generates a lot of interest from readers, it's fiction and therefore has some truthful elements and many imaginary ones.  I won't bother with a plot description and character analysis with this review; there are many other reviews here that provide that information.  What I will say is that \\"The Da Vinci Code\\" is a worthwhile read that motivated me to read a bit more about the historical aspects covered in the text.  Brown's writing is crisp, economical and easily accessible.  My curiosity was heightened and my perspective expanded all while being thoroughly entertained.  No need to highly recommend this one, the readership already has.  I suspect this novel will be a bestseller for quite a while.	2004-08-07
US	51716884	R35WC5DA83FBO1	0618433600	427557682	Pushkin and the Queen of Spades: A Novel	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Informative, thought provoking and entertaining	Randall's latest novel, &quot;Pushkin and the Queen of Spades&quot; covers a lot of territory. On one level, it's the story of a mother's love for her son and her attempt to protect him from a truth that she feels may crush him.  Windsor and Pushkin X - mother and son - are the focal characters in the novel.  When Windsor learns of her son's plans to marry a Russian lap dancer, she is forced to reckon with aspects of her past that she has tried desperately to forget.  Not only must she find a way to accept her future white daughter-in-law, but she must also find a way to tell her son who his father is.  Within this story line, the author demonstrates the current and historical complexities of black/white racial relationships.<br />On another level, the story examines class and culture conflicts within the African American community.  Windsor comes from a family with &quot;all of the vices except those that are unforgivable and none of the virtues except those that are absolutely necessary&quot;.  It is within this context that Randall explores the difficulties that Windsor has with integrating all facets of her life after a legitimate shift in class and cultural status.  &quot;. . . Negroes who survive to thrive exhibit highly original adaptations to life&quot;, Windsor tells Pushkin X; and she adapts by compartmentalizing her life in an effort to keep the criminal and abusive aspects of her family background from bleeding into the highly intellectual and academic life she now has as a Russian studies professor at Vanderbilt University.  Is it possible to jettison what was then for what is now?  Is it necessary?  I found this aspect of the novel comparable in many ways to my life experience and the author captures the character's psychological conflicts with apt clarity and clinical insight.<br />Then there's the literary relationship between the text of Randall's novel and the work of Alexander Pushkin.  Although I wasn't familiar with Pushkin's work I had heard of him at some point during my academic career.  What I don't recall hearing is that he is of African descent.  This bit of knowledge did for me on a small scale what it did for Windsor enormously - it sparked an interest to know more about the African-Russian.  It's because of Randall's work that I've recently read Pushkin's &quot;The Queen of Spades&quot;, that I've read a little biographical information about the author and his work, and that I will read &quot;The Negro of Peter the Great.&quot;  There is nothing more beautiful, more powerful, than a novel that entertains, uplifts, and educates; &quot;Pushkin and the Queen of Spades&quot; does all three.<br />And then there's the rhythm of the story, the beat.  Poetic passages and skillfully crafted phrases reflect the author's command of language and knowledge of literary history.  &quot;Pushkin and the Queen of Spades&quot; is a monumental accomplishment.  Randall packs the story with African-American history and tradition as well as literary creativity and complexity.  You'll have to put your thinking hat on for this one but its well worth the effort.heard of him at some point during my academic career.  What I don't recall hearing is that he is of African descent.   This bit of knowledge did for me on a small scale what it did for Windsor enormously - it sparked an interest to know more about the African-Russian.  It's because of Randall's work that I've recently read Pushkin's &quot;The Queen of Spades&quot;, that I've read a little biographical information about the author and his work, and that I will read &quot;The Negro of Peter the Great.&quot;  There is nothing more beautiful, more powerful, than a novel that entertains, uplifts, and educates; &quot;Pushkin and the Queen of Spades&quot; does all three.  <br />And then there's the rhythm of the story, the beat.  Poetic passages and skillfully crafted phrases reflect the author's command of language and knowledge of literary history.   &quot;Pushkin and the Queen of Spades&quot; is a monumental accomplishment.  Randall packs the story with African-American history and tradition as well as literary creativity and complexity.  You'll have to put your thinking hat on for this one but its well worth the effort.	2004-06-18
US	51716884	R14EPF9AOHHMXE	0312150598	407334381	Bad Vibes	Books	1	1	5	N	N	Bad Choice	Whenever I travel to other countries I like to take a novel that helps acquaint me with the people and culture of the country.  Although my voyage to Chile was motivated by Isabel Allende's &quot;My Invented Country, A Nostalgic Journey Through Chile&quot; I was determine to find another Chilean writer to take on the trip with me.  I searched the internet for a few days trying to finalize my selection.  I was excited to find a copy of &quot;Bad Vibes&quot; at my local library.  The reviews that I read seemed promising.  &quot;Like Catcher and the Rye&quot;, some reviews touted.  &quot;A contemporary Chilean coming of age story&quot;, was touted by other reviews.  I found the characters dull and the story slow.  After one hundred pages, I couldn't invest any more time with Matias and his group of drugged up self absorbed friends.  Perhaps this is exactly what life was like for the privileged class of Chile during the 1980s but the real challenge for Fuguet is how to reveal that story to the reader (i.e. non-Chilean reader) in a manner that is engaging and enjoyable - neither came through in the novel.<br />In contrast, my visit to Chile was wonderful.  The country is rich in history and culture.  Thanks to very knowledgeable tour guides and local people, I was able to get a feel for the country that I wasn't able to obtain through the novel. While Allende is still my favorite Chilean author, I remain open to new experiences with literature from this country.  Unfortunately for me, &quot;Bad Vibes&quot; was a bad choice.	2004-05-31
US	51716884	R1WREB6M6HGW8Z	0631143831	909764592	Queen of Spades (Blackwell's Russian Texts)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Getting Prepared	I read this short story as preparation for the reading of Alice Randall's latest novel \\"Pushkin and the Queen of Spades\\".  The main character of Pushkin's short story is Hermann, a man who at the onset of the story appears to be a level headed and prudent engineer.  He is able to observe his friends gambling for hours without participating.  \\"I am very much interested in cards,\\" Hermann says, \\"but I am not in a position to sacrifice the essential in the hope of acquiring the superfluous\\".  After hearing a story of the Countess X and her secret to winning in cards, Hermann undertakes a ploy to romance the Countess's maiden in hopes of gaining access to the Countess and her secret.  While I didn't find this story particularly moving or creative in a modern literary sense, I am excited to see how Randall will integrate Pushkin's original story with her latest novel.	2004-05-31
US	51716884	R36V4LI7Z3NAEI	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Exploring Possibilities	\\"Disgrace\\" is a very well written and powerful story that can be as simple as a love affair turned sour or as complicated as a musing on race relations in a post- Apartheid South Africa.  The main character is David Lurie, a middle-aged professor who looses his career due to an affair with one of his young student.  Once the student's parents learn of the affair, the university is notified and charges are brought against the professor.  During a highly publicized - yet closed - hearing, David pleads guilty to the charges but refuse to admit wrong doing or demonstrate remorse for his behavior.  The professor believes that at the base of his actions is an unexplainable impulse that is beyond his control.  \\"Our paths crossed,\\" he explained;  \\"Words passed between us, and at that moment something happened, which, not being a poet, I will not try to describe.  Suffice it to say that Eros entered.  After that, I was not the same.\\"<br />The author parallels the life of Professor Lurie with that of Lord Byron, the eighteenth century romantic poet.  Not only does Professor Lurie's life resemble that of Bryon's (including a physical deformity), but throughout the novel, Professor Lurie is working on an opera based on the love affair between Bryon and Teresa Guicciolo.  Interweaving the life of the great poet with that of the main character serves as one example of Coetzee's very skilled writing abilities.  Although you need not be familiar with the life of Lord Byron for this storyline to work, you may find yourself doing some quick internet research on Byron.  A little background on Byron provided me with a deeper appreciation of the Professor Lurie character.<br />Refusing to offer any sort of contrition for his behavior, or what motivated it, David is fired from his position at the university.  His peers and the Cape Town community are disgraced by his behavior.  The righteous indignation with which he is treated forces him to retreat to his daughter's (Lucy) home in a rural village named Grahamstown.  It is within this storyline that Coetzee reflects on South African race relations post- Apartheid.  Lucy is a new generation white South African whose lifestyle in the farming community is vastly different from the life her father would have her lead.  Lucy lives among indigenous South Africans and prefers her life as kennel keeper and garden grower to the city life that David has lived.  She is a minimalist, content to earn a simple living that affords her both peace of mind and solitude.  During David's stay with Lucy, they are the victims of a robbery where David is set ablaze and Lucy is raped.  Lucy's and David's response to this violation contains powerfully symbolic representations of South Africa during and after Apartheid.  Within the context of the sexual assault, Coteez explores the aftermath that rape - of a country or a person - has on the assaulted.  He examines the extent to which it is possible for the raped and the rapists to reconcile.  This storyline is fused with subtle and open language that allows the reader to extract a level of meaning much deeper than the surface story being told.<br />\\"Disgrace\\" is an accomplished novel that demonstrates the possibilities inherent in reconciliation and change. It contains much more than the size of the book implies. This is a great read for group discussion.  Highly recommended.n a rural village named Grahamstown.  It is within this storyline that Coetzee reflects on South African race relations post- Apartheid.  Lucy is a new generation white South African whose lifestyle in the farming community is vastly different from the life her father would have her lead.  Lucy lives among indigenous South Africans and prefers her life as kennel keeper and garden grower to the city life that David has lived.  She is a minimalist, content to earn a simple living that affords her both peace of mind and solitude.  During David's stay with Lucy, they are the victims of a robbery where David is set ablaze and Lucy is raped.  Lucy's and David's response to this violation contains powerfully symbolic representations of South Africa during and after Apartheid.  Within the context of the sexual assault, Coteez explores the aftermath that rape - of a country or a person - has on the assaulted.  He examines the extent to which it is possible for the raped and the rapists to reconcile.  This storyline is fused with subtle and open language that allows the reader to extract a level of meaning much deeper than the surface story being told.  <br />\\"Disgrace\\" is an accomplished novel that demonstrates the possibilities inherent in reconciliation and change. It contains much more than the size of the book implies. This is a great read for group discussion.  Highly recommended.	2004-05-20
US	51716884	R58LR3HO2PDR0	0312422156	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Expertly Imagined	\\"Middlesex\\" reads like a modern day Greek Tragedy; exploring concepts of gender, sexuality and identity on  a backdrop of Greek mythology and twentieth century Greek and American history.  The novel is written in the form of a memoir.  The main character and narrator is Calliope.  It is no accident that this character shares a name with the Greek Muse who reigns over epic poetry and rhetoric; for Cal is an excellent story teller and Eugenides a clever writer.  This well placed symbolism is one of many examples where the author weaves elements of Greek mythology with elements of the characters' reality.  Born an intersex child to first generation Greek-American parents, Callie is raised as a girl until a nearly tragic accident exposes her condition.<br />Cal's life story covers his conception, birth, adolescence and rebirth.  His story spans continents and travels back in time as he reconstructs his family history in an effort to understand the origin of the gene that reigns over gender and identity.  This journey of self discovery starts in 1920s Greece, around the time of the Turkish invasion.  Eleutherios (Lefty) and Desdamona, Cal's grandparents, flee from their small village when it was set ablaze by Turkish soldiers.  They devise a scheme to gain access to a boat headed for New York City and the freedom that America insinuates. They settle in Detroit during its early motor production heydays.  In addition to a silkworm box and cultural traditions from their homeland, Lefty and Desdamona bring to America the secret of their union - not only are they husband and wife but brother and sister as well.<br />As Callie enters adolescence, she becomes dejectedly aware of her late development as a female.  As she anxiously awaits the development of breast, she instinctively pursues her desires for the Object of her affections.  The longer the delay in the start of her period, the stronger her insecurities with her body and her looks.  After a car accident during a summer vacation with the Object and her family, Calliope is rushed to a hospital where doctors notify her parents that she has both male and female genitalia.<br />Militates (Milton) and Theodora (Tessie) are Calliope's parents.  Milton is the son of Lefty and Desdamona.  Tessie is the daughter of Lefty's and Desdamona's cousin.  Upon learning of their daughter's condition, Milton and Tessie take Callie to a gender identity specialist in New York City.  Throughout Callie's evaluation by Dr. Luce, she is kept in the dark about the details of the condition being evaluated.  After sneaking a look at her medical report when Dr. Luce wasn't present and piecing together bits of information overheard during her examinations, Callie learns the details of her situation and the doctor's recommendation to surgically alter her genitals and physically make her female.  This recommendation is based on false information that Calliope provided to Dr. Luce during her psychological evaluations.  Unaware that the stories she created to protect herself could in fact destroy her, Callie professed an attraction to boys although her experience with sexuality and her sexual desires were that of a heterosexual male's.<br />The only thing that kept Cal's life from becoming a complete tragedy is his instincts for flight in a situation that would have resulted in the destruction of the self he identified with most; a mutilation of parts that are as natural to him as a penis is to a boy, a vagina to a girl.  Cal's instinct for self-preservation fueled his escape from New York City and his subsequent life in San Francisco as a homeless kid, sex club sideshow, and writer.  Eugenides demonstrates with clarity, humanity and insight, the complexities of gender, sexuality and identity within the context of a family history, a 1970s middleclass American social construct and an individual spirit.  This is storytelling at the height of creativity.  \\"Middlesex\\" is expertly imagined and is a worthy addition toAmerica's literary canon.  Highly Recommended.dition to America's literary canon.  Highly Recommended.	2004-04-22
US	51716884	R2AJ1H1E18JZ8X	1931561494	161474851	Me and Orson Welles: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Lights, Curtin, Action. . .  .	The novel is set in late 1930's New York City. The story covers a week in the life of Richard Samuels, a seventeen year old suburban high school student who, by chance, lands a role in a Broadway production of Julius Cesar - written by, produced by and starring Orson Welles.  During an intense week of rehearsals, Richard encounters situations that help shape the charter he portrays in the play as well as the character he's building during adolescence.<br />The story is told in first person narrative by Richard.  The author's use of well paced, concise prose helped maintain my interest and sparked enough curiosity to keep me reading.  The story and characters are highly dramatic.  As Kaplow depicts the dynamics of putting on the play we learn how incredibly large egos and very low self-esteem work hand-in-had to achieve a theatric masterpiece.  Those same factors result in a showdown between Orson and Richard that forces Richard to see clearly all that his idol and his love have plainly had on display.<br />&quot;Me and Orson Welles&quot; was a good read.  The book was recommended as a group read by a friend whose reading interests are quite different from mine. I suspect that those with a deeper interest in Orson Welles will experience the novel on a different level. The fact that I enjoyed it demonstrates what can be accomplished when an interesting story is combined with solid writing, well crafted charters and subtle humor.  Although I wouldn't have picked it, I'm glad I read it.  Enjoy.	2004-02-15
US	51716884	RGX3BGW5R3F12	0395927218	25220636	The Namesake: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	What's in a name?	\\"The Namesake\\" chronicles the life of two generations of the Ganguli family.  Ashoke Ganguli, born and raised in Calcutta, moves to America in the mid 1960s to complete his engineering studies at MIT.  Upon return to Calcutta during a semester break, he meets and weds Ashima, the marriage arranged by his and her parents.  The newly married couple returns to New England where Ashoke completes his engineering degree and Ashima settles into a life focused on caring for her husband and getting accustomed to life in a new country with traditions that are in stark contrast to hers.  The Ganguli family in America is expanded with the birth of their first child, Gogol.  It is with the introduction of this character that the reader learns of the Bengali tradition of pet names, a tradition in contrast to the American tendency to shorten names.  Throughout the novel Gogol struggles, at first, with having to abandon his pet name (the only name he has ever known himself by), then with having to accept a name he no longer feels attached to.  In this sense, naming serves as a metaphor for the trials experienced by Gogol as a first generation Indian-American trying to carve out an identity that is separate from that of his parents.<br />I found \\"The Namesake\\" to be a very well written novel that provides good information on some aspects of Indian culture and the Indian immigrant experience in America.  The characters are realistically drawn and their struggles parallel those of many ethnic groups that arrive in America (or have survived being here) and try to immerse themselves in what it is to be \\"American\\" at the expense of the cultural and ethnic experiences from which they came.  The author captures this duality when she writes about the meaning of pet names - \\"Pet names are a persistent remnant of childhood, a reminder that life is not always so serious, so formal, so complicated.  They are a reminder, too, that one is not all things to all people.\\"<br />In addition to solid writing, interesting and fully realized characters, the novel has provided an excellent opportunity for me to get better acquainted with Indian co-workers.  As I asked them questions about the meaning of words and rituals mentioned in the novel, I found that we shared experiences that I once thought to be unique to my culture.  It is always refreshing to be reminded that the human race is as much alike as we are different.  This is a worthy read that will be of particular interest to those who have had to create a new life in a new place and  that should pretty much cover everyone at some point in life (if you're lucky!)  Enjoy.id writing, interesting and fully realized characters, the novel has provided an excellent opportunity for me to get better acquainted with Indian co-workers.  As I asked them questions about the meaning of words and rituals mentioned in the novel, I found that we shared experiences that I once thought to be unique to my culture.  It is always refreshing to be reminded that the human race is as much alike as we are different.  This is a worthy read that will be of particular interest to those who have had to create a new life in a new place and  that should pretty much cover everyone at some point in life (if you're lucky!)   Enjoy.	2004-02-01
US	51716884	R3QNRMEMN27Z92	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Well written and a good read	&quot;The Five People You Meet in Heaven&quot; is an enjoyable quick read that attempts to make sense of the main character's life after he is killed in a tragic amusement park accident.  Eddie is the amusement park's maintenance man charged with keeping the rides safe and operational.  The novel open's with a countdown of the last fifty minutes that Eddie spends on earth.  During this time, Albom introduces scenes that establish Eddie as a gentle giant whose heart has been dampened by a life of trials, tribulations and shortcomings.  However, as the story unfolds, it becomes clear that at the core of Eddie's heart is a deep - at times inexpressible - love for his family and friends.<br />After Eddie's death, he is transported to heaven where he meets people whose purpose in heaven is to help him understand his life on earth, &quot;That's what heaven is&quot; explains Eddie's Army Captain who died in combat while attempting to rescue his troops, &quot;You get to make sense of your yesterdays&quot;.  Each person he meets represents levels of heaven and provides insight to how Eddie's life affected others.  In doing so, the novel becomes a compilation of the various concepts of life after death that is popular in modern spiritual beliefs.  There is never any mention of a hell and heaven is depicted in terms easily accessible by readers.  &quot;. . . heaven can be found in the most unlikely corners.  And heaven itself has many steps.&quot;  &quot;Each of us was in your life for a reason.  You may not have known the reason at the time, and that is what heaven is for.&quot;<br />This is a good read.  Although Albom doesn't offer any new perspectives on the concept of heaven, he does tell a nice story with feel-good dimensions that are always good to reiterate.  The writing is clear, well paced and contains some of the most truthful passages I've ever come across in literature - &quot;ALL PARENTS DAMAGE their children.  It cannot be helped.  Youth, like pristine glass, absorbs the prints of its handlers.  Some parents smudge, others crack, a few shatter childhoods completely. . . . &quot; and &quot;LOVE, LIKE RAIN, can nourish from above, drenching couples with a soaking joy.  But sometimes, under the angry heat of life, love dries on the surface and must be nourished from below. . . .&quot;  These are a few of the many well written and truthfully constructed passages throughout the book.  &quot;The Five People You Meet In Heaven&quot;  will be a God send to some,  offering comfort in moments of death and clarity in times of uncertainty.  A worthwhile read.  Enjoy!absorbs the prints of its handlers.  Some parents smudge, others crack, a few shatter childhoods completely. . . . &quot; and &quot;LOVE, LIKE RAIN, can nourish from above, drenching couples with a soaking joy.  But sometimes, under the angry heat of life, love dries on the surface and must be nourished from below. . . .&quot;  These are a few of the many well written and truthfully constructed passages throughout the book.  &quot;The Five People You Meet In Heaven&quot;  will be a God send to some,  offering comfort in moments of death and clarity in times of uncertainty.  A worthwhile read.  Enjoy!	2004-01-10
US	51716884	R96Q7ZP1IO0N8	0060557540	5482241	The Known World	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An informative read	&quot;The Known World&quot; explores the dynamics of race, class, love and justice is an environment where former slaves become slave owners.  At first thought, one might ponder how could a slave obtain his freedom and then become a slave owner? Well, people do what they know.  In this novel, Jones does an excellent job of demonstrating how slavery was one of the few means of accumulating wealth and status for many free blacks.  It provided a promotion - of sorts - from the lowest rank in the slavery institution to the one just above it.  Although black slave owners were able to accumulate greater wealth than some of their white counterparts, the fact of their race returned them to the lowest level of a society where race trumps wealth; where the color of your skin over-ranks every other aspect of your life.  This dual existence is skillfully rendered throughout the novel as the characters' lives unfold and intertwine.  Jones further exhibits his writing talents by creating a non-linear story that uses character interaction to move the story along instead of a chronological rendering of events as they unfold.  This is a complex method of storytelling perfected by very few and managed very well by Jones.<br />So why, I'm thinking, did I initially rate this book a three?  As I write the review it becomes clear that it's a better book than that.  The fact of free black people owning slaves is an excellent topic to explore.  Although I struggled early on with the text, I was determined to finish the book simply because I had not read any other covering the topic.  While I knew that a few free blacks owned slaves I have never read much about it.  The novel is well researched, informative and fresh . . . all of which warrants a four rating.  The fact that I found the narrative voice dull and absent of any distinctive rhythm is the only thing that kept this novel from a perfect five star rating.  It required a bit of persistence to finish the novel but it's worth it.	2003-12-29
US	51716884	R2AUIQWNKBG9WT	0385720726	830620243	You Are Not a Stranger Here: Stories	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Rescued by a stranger	What a wonderful surprise!  I owe a big thank you to Rubem Fonseca for this one (click on the \\"see more about me\\" link to read my review of Fonseca's novel).  I randomly selected You Are Not a Stranger Here from an airport bookstore while waiting for a flight to Brazil.  Until that moment, I'd never heard of Haslett - a complete stanger to me.  I had a gut feeling that the novel I was reading was not going to get any better so I decided to take some other reading material in case my gut was right.  With little time to browse, I read the first paragraph of Haslett's stories and decided to purchase the book.  In my haste, I failed to notice that the book was a collection of short stories as opposed to a novel.  I generally don't enjoy short stories so I was quite disappointed when I settled in for my seven-hour flight to Sao Paulo, started reading the book, and then realized that it wasn't a novel.  Although the short stories that I've read in the past have all seemed underdone and incomplete, I found the stories in this collection to be well developed and extremely engaging.<br />The stories explore themes of pain, loss, and love as experienced by characters either with or affected by mental illness.  In \\"Notes to My Biographer\\" a father and son, both with bipolar disorder struggle to maintain a relationship although they differ on treatment approaches for their illness.  \\"Two Things to get straight from the beginning:\\" declares the father, \\"I hate doctors and have never joined a support group in my life.\\"  \\"The Beginnings of Grief\\" depicts one gay teenager's anguish over the loss of both parents while another teenager struggles to accept his desire for the affections of the grief stricken.  In \\"The Volunteer\\" - my favorite story in the collection - a young man befriends a schizophrenic elderly woman who advises him on how to treat his first love and ultimately positions him to deal with his mother's depression.  In this story, Haslett easily flows from the elderly woman's lucid, sane state to the delusional state where she sees and hears an ancestor who was among the early settlers of New England.  The author exhibits great skill as he differentiates the narrative voice, from the character's voice, from the character's imagined ancestor's voice.  I always knew whose perspective was being presented without the need for character introductions from the author.  \\"The Volunteer\\" also captures the young man's first sexual encounter with a tenderness and accuracy that will leave many readers wondering  - \\"is he writing about me?\\"<br />This entire collection is undeniably the most well written, intricately imagined set of short stories that I've ever read.  The stories depict the humanity and compassion of its characters as they navigate through highly complex emotional experiences.  The language flows like melted butter and each story felt complete.  I would read one story, digest its effect on me, wait a few days then read another.  It was like reading nine novels in nine days!  It's disappointing that Haslett didn't win the Pulitzer or National Book Award for this one but he deserves kudos for being a finalist for both.  Highly Recommended.woman's lucid, sane state to the delusional state where she sees and hears an ancestor who was among the early settlers of New England.  The author exhibits great skill as he differentiates the narrative voice, from the character's voice, from the character's imagined ancestor's voice.  I always knew whose perspective was being presented without the need for character introductions from the author.  \\"The Volunteer\\" also captures the young man's first sexual encounter with a tenderness and accuracy that will leave many readers wondering  - \\"is he writing about me?\\"<br />This entire collection is undeniably the most well written, intricately imagined set of short stories that I've ever read.  The stories depict the humanity and compassion of its characters as they navigate through highly complex emotional experiences.  The language flows like melted butter and each story felt complete.  I would read one story, digest its effect on me, wait a few days then read another.  It was like reading nine novels in nine days!   It's disappointing that Haslett didn't win the Pulitzer or National Book Award for this one but he deserves kudos for being a finalist for both.  Highly Recommended.	2003-12-19
US	51716884	R2DJNECU8MS00V	0880015837	476448615	Vast Emotions and Imperfect Thoughts	Books	1	1	6	N	N	Simply Imperfect	This was quite disappointing.  I searched for quite a while trying to select a novel by a Brazilian writer in preparation for my visit to Brazil.  Whenever I leave the U.S., I try to gain some familiarity with the place I'm visiting through the literature of the country.  I was unsuccessful with this novel.  The story begins with a woman paying a visit to the main character and leaving a bag of gems.  The author moves on from there with pages of detailed information about gems (I did learn that Brazil is a major gem producing county).  Then there's another storyline about the main character making a movie based on an old book of some sort but this storyline is equally boring.  I took the book with me thinking that it would get better if I read it in Brazil.  No such luck.  After 100 pages I nearly through it from my hotel balcony.  Since it was a library copy I was forced to bring it back.  I found nothing creative or imaginative about this novel (I doubt that the translator did that bad of a job).  After talking to a number of Brazilians, the one author that surfaced time and time again was Jorge Armando (spelling cold be wrong).  I'll give him a try in a few months after the fresh memories of Brazil fade a bit.  While &quot;Vast Emotions and Imperfect Thoughts&quot; was a disappointment, I have nothing but positive things to say about Brazil. The country is breathtaking, the people are wonderful and the food is scrumptious.  I love Bahia!	2003-11-28
US	51716884	RQXO94JMN655L	0375409440	311140684	Love	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Absolutely Lovely	I can never really put my finger on it but whenever I've finished a Morrison novel, I'm left nursing a range of emotions from awe to despair. I'm left pondering what the book was all about, which forces me to exam more closely the themes, characters, and conflicts of the novel.  The end result of this closer examination is always a better understanding of self and a richer appreciation for others.<br />In Morrison's latest novel, the author examines the consequences of perhaps the most sought after emotion in human existence.  Love, and its various faces - hate lust, envy - is set during the 1950's in an ocean side town where Bill Cosey owns a resort that caters to middle and upper class blacks.  Heed, Christine and May are the primary characters.  L, a narrating spirit and former employee of the resort, provides background and insight into the other characters motives in a voice that resonates with truth and love.  Heed and Christine share a pure unconditional love that bonds the two in friendship until Bill, Christine's grandfather, takes Heed as his bride. Bill, at age 52, purchases the 11-year-old Heed from her parents in hopes of obtaining a pure and virginal vessel to bear him a son to replace the one he lost to death.  May, Christine's mother, sees Heed as a threat to the family's upper-class lifestyle and does everything in her power to disgrace the child bride.  The love once shared by Heed and Christine is quickly turned into a life consuming hatred as May enlists Christine in her campaign against Heed.<br />Morrison unleashes, with grace and assurance, the literary skills she has cultivated over the course of her career.  She is a master at telling a story from the inside out. Love, with wonderfully drawn characters and imagistic prose that nearly leaps from the page, is a splendid compliment to the author's literary canon.  The novel is thin but deep.  The only thing better than reading a Morrison novel is having a few people to discuss it with.  Curl up and enjoy!up and enjoy!	2003-11-05
US	51716884	RWBZBTNR6K716	0738207942	14978105	No Horizon Is So Far: Two Women And Their Extraordinary Journey Across Antarctica	Books	4	9	11	N	N	No Dream  Is So Impossible	&quot;No Horizon Is So Far&quot; details Arnesen and Bancroft's expedition across the Antarctic continent. The two former school teachers set out to fulfill their lifelong dreams of crossing the Antarctic while inspiring kids to tackle personal obstacles and to pursue their dreams.  The expedition team developed a curriculum that allowed students around the world to participate in their adventure while learning valuables lessons in science and perseverance.  Told from both voyagers' viewpoint, the book recounts with suspense, humor and clarity the challenges and triumphs of crossing the frozen continent. Information on the business aspects of planning and executing an expedition is also included and provides, for this Project Manager, an example of astute planning by a culturally and professionally diverse team of individuals with an intense dedication to achieving the goals of the expedition.<br />&quot;No Horizon Is So Far&quot; is successful on many levels.  It educates, inspires, and motivates. On the surface - and by the cover - this may appear to be merely an adventure story, but it's much more.  The journey of Arnesen and Bancroft not only challenged the physical and emotional strength of the two history making women but it also serves as a metaphor for the challenges we all face in everyday life.  The story is well organized and made easily accessible with clear and concise language that sets an inviting tone for the story and is open enough to allow the women's experience to be meaningful to a wide range of people.  Kudos to the women for chasing their dreams and congratulations to the expedition team and supporters that helped them catch it.	2003-10-20
US	51716884	R2UI55Q3AKW3C6	0618068864	866316325	Wild Ginger: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A test of loyalty, friendship and love	\\"Wild Ginger\\" is the coming of age story of three teenagers set in China during the Cultural Revolution.  Wild Ginger and Maple meet in grade school.  Maple is the target of vicious bullying and beatings by classmates for being classified as a reactionary (\\"not from three-generations-of-labor family\\") and for not being fully indoctrinated in the teachings of Mao.  Wild Ginger, new to the school, is an outcast for being the biracial daughter of a French father and a Chinese mother.  When Wild Ginger rescues Maple from an after school beating by ardent Mao supporters the two become fast friends.  Although the friendship appears, initially, to be based on the need for protection, the relationship develops into one of the deepest commitments each will ever make.<br />Wild Ginger is determined to gain acceptance by resisting the physical punishments from her classmates with the same conviction with which she embraces the teachings of Mao.  Maple, though not as committed to Mao, remains loyal and supportive of her best friend.  The bond the two girls establish is steadfast, impenetrable - until the help of a neighborhood boy is solicited and an unpredictable love triangle forms that threatens to destroy the thing both girls value most.<br />\\"Wild Ginger\\" is a skillfully drawn novel that explores themes of friendship, love and loyalty within the social and political backdrop of China's Cultural Revolution.  Min's writing is crisp and uncluttered.  The story flows like the rhythm of an ancient Chinese fable yet it possess all the elements of style and device commonplace in modern literature.  \\"Wild Ginger\\" is insightful and enriching.  This is the first novel that I've read by Anchee Min; I'm now looking forward to others.	2003-10-05
US	51716884	R1RJQ80RUU5ZWK	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderfully Executed!	\\"The Secret Life of Bees\\" is really about the lives of the women who make up the novel. Set in 1964 South Carolina, the story is about Lily who is orphaned after the death of her mother and the escape from her treacherous father.  Using clues found among a few of her mother's belongings, Lily and Rosaleen (Lily's nanny) find themselves at the house of August, May and June.  The women are sisters.  August, the oldest, is a beekeeper.  As the story evolves, Lily learns about her mother's life through the relationship her mother had with August.  She learns about the nature of life through the connection the women have with one another.<br />This is a wonderfully executed novel of love, loss, human nature and forgiveness. The author uses the life of bees as a framing device to reveal the life of her characters and to provide insight to the nature of people.  The writing is crisp.  The story is laced with metaphor and symbolism that is based on the behavior of bees.  The characters are loveable, fully realized, and memorable.  The fact that I was stung by a bee while reading this novel and am still able to appreciate the value of the little insect is testament to the creative link the author establishes between bee and human.  This is a superb debut novel worthy of your time.  Kudos to Kidd for the effort!	2003-09-28
US	51716884	R3D9RM0C7GPHCX	0156001888	287366764	The Beans of Egypt, Maine: The Finished Version	Books	4	15	17	N	N	How Low can they go?	The Bean family consists of several generations of poor, uneducated, working folk in the rural town of Egypt, Maine.  The author has created a community where the family members (and there are plenty of `em) depend on each other for basic survival needs but little else. I found that very few of the characters were likable; however, I acknowledge the wonderfully crafted language and simplistic prose that make up the novel.  I'm glad I read the \\"finished\\" version; were it not for this edition, I may have fallen victim to the very classism that the author criticizes in the postscripts.  Although the author challenges the reader to empathize with the struggles of the Beans, it was difficult for me to read the book without reading incestuous behavior into the daily lives and inner workings of the family.  I don't want to believe that the incestuous overtones I garnered from the text are due to an \\"upper/middle-class\\" view of the poorest of America's citizens.  I'm more apt to believe that the Beans are a clan without boundaries and with few principles.  It is possible to be destitute, uneducated, unemployed, undernourished, and unvalued but still have a few basic human values that extend beyond the shelter and protection of the family . . . isn't it?<br />The story is interesting.  The pace is fitting.  Although I never felt like putting the book down, I didn't plough through it either.  I consider this a good read because it challenges the way that I think about love and familial affection. This is an excellent group read as well - the more perspectives the better.  Have at it!	2003-09-18
US	51716884	R28KA25V9JAES0	006054564X	957972911	My Invented Country: A Nostalgic Journey Through Chile	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Thanks for the memories!	A very nice trip down memory lane with one of my favorite authors.  In this memoir, Allende traverses the expanse of her memory to provide a glimpse of her life and relations in Chile.  This is a well-written chronicle of Chile's history during the author's lifetime.  The country's customs, political atmosphere, and landscape are portrayed with insight and humor. The novel presents a quick, informative and heartfelt introduction to a country still in the making.  If you are an Allende fan, you will find that you are reliving your experiences with the author's previous works as she relives her experiences in Chile. The book was enough to have me add Chile to my list must see places.	2003-09-18
US	51716884	R8TYDBA6Q14D7	1573229164	322503556	In Our Strange Gardens (English and French Edition)	Books	1	1	6	N	N	The best thing about the story is the length.	The description on the flap of the book is much more interesting than the actual story.  This novella about two men who, during the second World War, were imprisoned for their participation in an attack on a German controlled power installation in France.  The son of one of the captured men tells the story.  The father is a schoolteacher who moonlights as a clown.  His son is embarrassed by the clown persona.  As the story unfolds, the son learns of the importance of the clown in his father's life and eventually wear's the mask himself albeit for different reasons.  There is nothing special or highly creative about this text.  The book contains the French version and the English translation of the story.  As with any story translated from its original language, its difficult to tell if some of the meaning was lost in the translation.  Perhaps that is the case with &quot;In Our Strange Gardens&quot;.  The best thing about this story is the length.  Can't recommend this one.	2003-07-15
US	51716884	R7941DRYKW5ZI	0452283256	164096125	Honeymooners: A Cautionary Tale	Books	4	3	3	N	N	These characters put the FUN in dysFUNctional	It took a while to finish this one but I'm glad I did. The novel focuses on the perilously decadent lives of Ralph and Alice Anne. Crafted in the dialectical tradition of the \\"Honeymooners\\" television show of old, this contemporary story extracts the dark, vile, highly addictive nature of its characters and their friends.  Ralph and Jim are best friends, college professors and writers, whose lives spirals from one disaster to the next as they move through life with no rules no boundaries and a very limited future. Kinder has written a story of drug induced drunken debauchery that is both comical and loathsome at once. His writing is well paced and clear.  \\"Honeymooners\\" is an overall enjoyable read that highlights the irreverent imagination (or actual life) of a talented author.  This is my first read by Kinder and I'm not disappointed.	2003-07-11
US	51716884	R2FU2HMZ1KN330	0385334591	967459721	If Beale Street Could Talk	Books	5	19	19	N	N	If Beale Street Could Talk . . . would America hear it?	It is always a great disappointment and a tremendous joy to read Baldwin.  The author's ability to bring the experiences of African American life and the circumstances under which those lives are lived here in America is a joyful, although difficult, reading experience.  The disappointment comes in realizing that although Baldwin's canon of work spanned the late 1960's through 1970's, many of the conditions that he writes about so candidly still exist in 2003.  The novel is, at its core, a beautiful love story.  Not the kind where man meets woman, they fall in love, marry, have children and move into their lovely suburban home adorned with white picket fence and a two car garage.  For that American dream was rarely the experience of many African Americans during the period in which the novel is set.  In this depiction of the American dream, Tish and Fonny meet as children, grow up and in love, all the while aspiring to create a life together.  Their hopes for the future are destroyed when Fonny is jailed for a rape he did not commit.<br />With classic Baldwin insight, the novel reveals how individual, systematic and internalized racial hatred ruined the lives of two lovers and their families. From the white cop that set Fonny up, to the court system that held him down (although he had an alibi) to the family that turned their backs on him, all contributed to his destruction.  When Baldwin isn't rendering a scathing critique of America's racial injustices, he's rebuking the unquestioning manner that many African American's cling to religion in hopes of obtaining freedom here on earth.<br />Although at times it is difficult to distinguish the characters' voice from the author's, the novel truthfully depicts a fictional account of the realities of America's racism.  I thought the ending was a bit fatalistic but decided that is exactly the point that Baldwin was making about the future of America in the absence of full equality for all of her citizens. \\"If Beale Street Could Talk\\" is as tragic as it is loving. It's a great read that serves to remind and encourage.  Highly Recommended.eet Could Talk\\" is as tragic as it is loving. It's a great read that serves to remind and encourage.  Highly Recommended.	2003-06-13
US	51716884	R3BU9C4FUZSQ50	0916397599	237810283	Po Man's Child	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Intense and expertly imagined	The novel opens with a lesbian S&M scene through which the author reveals a family history informed by tragedy and adversity so bizarre that the family believes they are cursed. The family history is told by Po, the youngest of three children born to the Childs'.  The children grow up believing that deceased relatives make regular visits to the family to foretell the onset of happy or sad times.  Uncle Ray is determined to kill himself and the family endures multiple failed attempts on his part to achieve his goal.  Having grown up in an environment where ghosts abound and insanity flourishes, the children develop coping mechanisms that allow them to survive the family but lose themselves.  From drug addiction to self-mutilation to family abandonment, the Childs' children attempt to cover up, or perhaps unleash, the pain of generations of trauma.<br /> \\"Po Man's Child\\" accomplishes many things on many levels.  The novel is steeped in supernatural beliefs and familial experiences that shape the lives of the characters in self-destructive ways.  The story demonstrates how one's inability to challenge and resist beliefs that do not enrich their lives will only lead to destroying it.  Blackman has written a highly symbolic, multi-layered narrative that informs and entertains.  The writing is superb.  The story is intense and expertly imagined.  This is a fabulous debut novel by an extremely skilled and daring writer.  I look forward to more of her work.  Highly Recommended.	2003-06-01
US	51716884	R3K7D0GYZN6W2B	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Enough is Enough!	After over a month of trying to finish this book, I've decided to put an end to it.  No doubt Russo is a talented writer for this story is written in clear, near flawless prose which doesn't pose much of a challenge to the reader. However, the story simply did not engage me to the extent that I felt compelled to finish it.  The novel revolves around the residents of Empire Falls, Maine, formerly a thriving industrial town that appears to have fallen apart when its primary employer closes his plants. The characters and story line are only marginally interesting.  I decided on three separate occasions to dump the book, but each time I vowed to give it one more chance - after all it did win the Pulitzer.  After 333 pages I simply cannot keep going.  It is clear to me that the story is as boring as the residents of the fictitious town.  The story offers a laugh here and there but it doesn't make up for page after page of uninteresting characters.  While Russo does offer some note worthy insight on human interactions by delving into the psyche of the various characters, it is not sufficient to compensate for a story line that lacks momentum. Can't recommend this one, but I will check out some of Russo's other work.	2003-05-18
US	51716884	RABRNX3QSDONP	039575514X	584095688	My Antonia	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Not bad after all.	I was able to sink into the story after getting past the first few chapters.  It took that much time for me to open up to the early twentieth century language.  Once into the rhythm of the story, the only thing left was to imagine; an easy task given the writing ability of Willa Cather.  As I reflect on the story, I'm certain that it was the strength of the characters that kept me interested.  Antonia's voice is, now, as familiar to me as a close friend's.  I won't bother with a summary of the story, plenty has been written about it over the years. I will say that I have been enriched by the experience and much better informed about the life of early settlers of the Western planes.  While I'm not a big fan of the `Classics\\" in general, this one held its own.  No need to rush out and buy it, but put it on your list and be sure to get to it.	2003-04-16
US	51716884	R3B8E5HX11WRQR	1573222127	953913428	Miracle at St. Anna	Books	1	16	21	N	Y	I guess you had to be there???	I tried very hard but simply could not get into this novel.  After reading \\"The Color of Water\\", I was excited to learn that McBride had released a novel.  Thirty pages into \\"Miracle At St. Anna\\", I started to lose interest in the story and characters (the gentle black \\"giant\\" character could have been lifted directly from \\"The Green Mile\\").  I continued, convinced that there was something good waiting for me in the next chapter or the next.  One hundred fifty pages into the book I realized that it was not the story that bored me but the telling of it.  The language is dull.  Unimaginative metaphor and clich&eacute; distracts from the mystical elements that hover at the edge of the story.  The magic never quite happened for me.  This novel may strike a chord with readers who have some familiarity with the era and region.  If you have not read \\"The Color of Water\\", I'd suggest you start there.  McBride's real life story is much more interesting that the fictional story he tries to tell with this novel.	2003-03-29
US	51716884	R2ICX7ZUBVWTB5	0446675504	383179538	Parable of the Sower (Earthseed)	Books	5	16	21	N	N	Things that make you go . . . hummm?	A very heavy read. Octavia Butler launches the reader into the America of the future.  The story is set in southern California during the years 2024 through 2027 where, through the journal entries of Lauren Olimina, we learn of the savage and degenerative state of the nation.  A nation where the ability to feel the pain of others is a disease that could lead to death; where communities and neighborhoods are walled off for protection from the less fortunate.  Violence is rampant.  Citizens are armed to capacity.  Fear permeates your every thought and action.<br />\\"Parable of the Sower\\" is an engaging read on so many levels.  The narrative is highly symbolic and open.  The story is framed in the biblical tradition yet it calls to question our notions of God and religion as they relate to the survival of the individual spirit and community.  Although futuristic in setting, the story renders an immediacy that was at times uncomfortable for me to fully digest.  In the year of 2003, 2025 doesn't seem that far off.  Although I found the prose clear and concise, I wasn't able to devour the book with the eager anticipation that I would typically apply to a novel as well developed as this one.  I didn't understand this self-imposed resistance to surrendering myself completely to the story.  It became clear to me midway through the text that - unlike most really great novels that I've read - with \\"Parable of the Sower\\", I didn't necessarily want to know what would happen next.  The unfolding of the story generated more angst in me than curiosity.  On a subconscious level, had I slipped into a comfortable denial of what could occur to a people who have been failed by their religion, their governments, family, neighbors, and friends.  As America stands at the ready for war with Iraq, had the future of the nation as imagined by Butler become too close to reality?<br />Any novel that causes this type of internal reflection deserves wide spread readership.  Published originally in 1993, \\"Parable of the Sower\\" spans the past, present and future as it depicts a nation that has lost its connection to everything.  This is my first read by this award-winning author.  I have a lot of catching up to do.  Highly Recommended!y in 1993, \\"Parable of the Sower\\" spans the past, present and future as it depicts a nation that has lost its connection to everything.   This is my first read by this award-winning author.  I have a lot of catching up to do.  Highly Recommended!	2003-03-16
US	51716884	R1PWSX16KB79Z3	0375719180	211821642	The Miracle Life of Edgar Mint: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	What a pleasant surprise!	The Sunday Chicago Tribune Book Section contains a segment titled \\"Opening Lines\\".  Readers are encouraged to submit first lines of novels that have provoked, inspired, or moved them.  I read the opening lines of \\"The Miracle Life of Edgar Mint\\" and couldn't get Edgar off my mind for weeks.  I eventually purchased the novel and settled in for a tremendous journey through Edgar's childhood and adolescence.<br />The novel opens with beautifully crafted sentences that reveal a horrific accident.  This incident changes the course of Edgar's life.  Pronounced dead by paramedics, Edgar is taken to the local hospital where he is revived by a doctor who, henceforth, assumes a rather unusual custody of Edgar's life.  Throughout the course of the novel, Edgar meets a host of characters who have the best and sometimes worst intentions for his well being.  Through rehabilitation, torture and attempted suicide Edgar, through the grace of God (though he doesn't know it), perseveres.<br />Udall has created a cast of characters that are quirky, flawed, and brilliantly imagined.  The story is engaging and triumphant.  The writing is superb.  An excellent read that delights and inspires.  Highly Recommended!	2003-03-01
US	51716884	R3QAC04RA7LZFN	0375421726	129991609	Nigger - The Strange Career of a Troublesome Word	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Good Research	I first saw the author on CSPAN's BookTV.  A white man who refused to say the N-word was interviewing him. I remember thinking how inarticulate - uncomfortable maybe - Kennedy was when trying to intellectualize and give some legitimacy to the word \\"Nigger\\".  Simply having to discuss it with the white host seemed to create noticeable angst. I thought that the discussion would have been freer, more open had the interviewer been black.  That's really a separate matter from the book, but deserving inquiry and ponder still the same, and serves as a nice lead into my review of the text.  The very situation that the interview created is one of the many aspects of Kennedy's research that is aimed at elevating the understanding of the power of the word \\"Nigger\\".<br />In his research, Kennedy reveals the history of the word from its etymological roots to the foul and oppressive meaning given to it by white supremacist America to the affectionate meaning that black Americans have assigned it.  In reading the book, I was drawn back to an experience that, as I think about it now, resulted in my discontinuance of the use of the word.  Kennedy makes reference to an incident at Purdue University where the door of a black counselor's office was defaced with a threatening racial slur.  I was an undergraduate at the university when this occurred.  As a black student (at the time less than one percent of the student population) in the cornfields of Indiana, I certainly felt less safe on campus after that incident than I'd felt before it.  My feelings of safety were further reduced when I was doused with beer while walking home from a late night study session.  The offenders were a group of white male students who drove past me in a pickup truck, doused me with beer, and yelled \\"Nigger go home\\".  This incident occurred only days after the offensive racial slur was written on the door of the counselor's office.  In my thinking, the first incident opened the door for the second.  Soon after my personal assault, white supremacist leaflets begin to circulate around campus.  I certainly felt under attack.  Having witnessed the spiraling effect the use of the word generated, I consciously made a decision to eliminate the word from my vocabulary.  I've been largely successful with this endeavor; however there have been moments, when not willing to take the time to find a better way to say what I mean, that I've failed.<br />I recall those experiences by way of trying to better appreciate Kennedy's work around the use of the word.  While I believe that his material is well researched (nearly one third of the book consist of endnotes citing a wealth of references from which he draws conclusions) I find that the text does very little to heighten my understanding of the meaning, use, or history of the word.  As an African American man I have never been confused by what was meant when the word was used to describe me regardless of the race of the person who used it.  If it were not a book club assignment I'm certain I would not have read the book (I'm glad I did given my experience with the BOOKTV interview).  For the broader reading public, I feel the book does an excellent job of articulating the complexities of the word.  I hope that it also causes readers of all races to give deeper consideration to its use prior to using it.  I am still bothered by the use of the word by any non-black person even when its use is not aimed to harm or violate. I believe that if African Americans are to continue the fight full equality in the classroom, workplace and courtrooms then  we should stop giving \\"Nigger\\" currency.  Given the African American influence on popular culture I'm convinced that if we stop using the word to describe us (in good or bad ways), then \\"Nigger\\" will fall from popular use just as other demeaning words used to describe us has (e.g. \\"Pickaninny\\" (now don't everyone start using it! &#61514;).  We are certainly capable of coming up with other wordsthat describe us in the multitude of ways that we see ourselves as opposed to reinventing and giving currency to a word created by the oppressor for the sole purpose of minimizing and dehumanizing us.rds that describe us in the multitude of ways that we see ourselves as opposed to reinventing and giving currency to a word created by the oppressor for the sole purpose of minimizing and dehumanizing us.	2003-02-08
US	51716884	R2JZG6N9W8YZ8U	0684874318	752123587	Flesh And Blood	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Wonderfully done!	\\"Flesh and Blood\\" is the saga of three generations of the Stassos family.  Mary and Constantine are first generation immigrants.  Italian and Greek respectively.  They meet as teenagers and marry during the 1950's.  Their marriage yields three children, Susan, Billy and Zoe. Constantine focuses on obtaining wealth and possessing things, believing that wealth would somehow elevate his status as an American and remove the stigma of his poor Greek upbringing.  Mary sees their marriage as a means of escape from her family only to discover that she's married a brut with a temper who physically and emotionally terrorizes his family.<br />Each child learns to survive the family by finding their own escape.  Susan tries to emulate what she thinks her mother is missing - thing that should prevent her father's fits of anger.  In doing so, Susan takes on the responsibility of comforting her father, explaining him and requesting her siblings' patience with him. Her love for her father, and her desire to please him, prove to be a dangerous emotional combination. Billy's relationship with their father is tumultuous from the start.  As a child whose sensibilities are not masculine enough for what Constantine desires in a son, Billy was often on the receiving end of the physical and verbal eruptions of his father.  With a defiance as strong as his father's temper, Billy managed to survive the household and emerge as Will, a Harvard educated teacher who is accepting of his sexuality but never finds any love for his father.  Zoe is the youngest child who spends the majority of her life trying to disappear.  As an adult, she looses herself in drugs and chemically induced freedom until she becomes pregnant and discovers that she has reason to live.<br />These are the trimmings of the story; the meat is in how Cunningham manages to pull it together.  The characters are intricately imagined, the prose flawlessly scripted.  The author is able to draw out the humanity of each character ways that allow you to love, hate and empathize with them.  Cunningham is a wonderful talent. He can be counted on to deliver stories that are powerfully emotive and expertly imagined.  An excellent read.ways that allow you to love, hate and empathize with them.  Cunningham is a wonderful talent. He can be counted on to deliver stories that are powerfully emotive and expertly imagined.  An excellent read.	2003-02-01
US	51716884	R1JOLZHIWMALMH	0449001245	435088297	Naked Came the Manatee	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Mistake	In desperate need of a light read and curious about the multi-author approach used with this novel, I dove into &quot;Naked Came The Manatee&quot; with anticipation of the fun and excitement typical of Elmore Leonard and Carl Hiassen writing.  The story unravels the mystery behind two heads, both with a great similarity to Fidel Castro that are lost in transport from Florida to Cuba.  Each of the thirteen authors writes a chapter of the novel, with Hiassen and Leonard attempting to pull the story together in the final chapters.  The characters are odd and criminally inept as most characters in Hiassen's and Leonard's writing but the story is underdeveloped and lacks the immediacy of a great crime mystery.  If you have nothing else to read and this book happens to be within reach give it a try. Don't expect much and you won't be disappointed.	2003-01-11
US	51716884	R3M3KT78S1M4WH	0521456932	594997898	Editing Fact and Fiction: A Concise Guide to Book Editing	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Well Worth the Purchase	One Stop shopping for editing information.  This is a great tool for beginning editors and writers.  The book is concise, easily readable and contains a wealth of information about the editing role in publishing.  There is also great insight and tips for freelance editing and excellent reference information in the back.  This is the best book of its type that I've come across to date.	2002-12-30
US	51716884	RNEQWDZ47I1PK	0321026896	527180874	Writing Fiction: A Guide to Narrative Craft (5th Edition)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A great writing resource!	An excellent tool for the craft!  The text covers a variety of topics in fiction writing and includes story examples to demonstrate key concepts.  The book is well organized, easily readable, and technically insightful.  The chapters on structure and characterization were particularly helpful to me but each topic is thoroughly covered in concise language with meaningful examples.  I feel like a better writer and a more alert reader.  A must have for writers and literature aficionados.	2002-12-17
US	51716884	R2LX8TN4QI8YH8	0679772596	369774091	Sabbath's Theater	Books	1	12	28	N	N	Another National Book Award Flop	Apparently there's something special about Philip Roth and his writing that escapes me.  This novel was a complete waste of my time.  I struggled to the middle then simply dumped it.  The story is about a self-loathing, conflicted, sexually addicted misogynist who has lost all connection to anything humane. The writing style is dull and after 200 pages I didn't find a single character likable. The story is laced with the main character's sexual escapades but after a while even that loses it shock value and becomes numbing.  It's good to see that I am not alone in my assessment of this novel.  From the reviews posted you either really enjoy it or not.  For me . . . NOT!  Can't recommend this one.	2002-12-13
US	51716884	R2WLGHYTKBC591	0452282918	657856375	The Warmest December	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Stunning !	\\"The Warmest December\\" details the turbulent life of a family destroyed by abuse and alcoholism. Kenzie Lowe, the eldest child of the family narrates the story. A host of strong, believable characters carry the story as the author carries the reader from one traumatic event to the next.  Throughout the novel, Kenzie struggles to free herself from a past of secrecy and cruelty that has her encased.  This is a powerful story of survival and ultimately forgiveness.  I read, I cried, I got angry, I laughed. I anxiously awaited the death of the father only to feel sadness and empathy for him when he died. This is my first read by McFadden and I'm greatly impressed by her near flawless writing and story telling ability. I'm looking forward to reading more of her work.  Highly Recommended!	2002-11-22
US	51716884	R2GGXQXBT3V5F5	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A Good Read	The Lovely Bones is a creative exploration of the supernatural. The author weaves a story of love, tragedy and pain which traverses the vastness of heaven and earth.  A 14-year-old girl who is raped and dismembered by a serial killer narrates the story.  In heaven, Susie can see the impact her murder has on family and friends.  As a spectator and sometimes participant in earthly activities, she is able to maintain connected to the living in ways that most people on earth fail to notice.<br />Sebolds method of narration works wonderfully for the story. Although the narrator is fourteen years old, her age does not hamper her perception or her ability to interpret the humanity she sees on earth.  The heavenly perspective provided by the narrator lends credibility and allows her to transcend age constraints. Overall, I thought this a good read.  There were moments where the story moved slower than I liked, so I skipped a few paragraphs here or there to speed the pace (you dont lose any of the story line, some of the writing is rather fluffy).  I believe the mass appeal for this book is due primarily to the subject matter and readers desire to believe that those who we love maintain a mystical connection to us after they die.  Sebold portrays this connection is an easily accessible manner that validates experiences had by many survivors of the dead.  Worth reading and passing on.	2002-11-07
US	51716884	RTX8FNM3KQ9TU	0375502238	955709915	Blessings	Books	2	36	43	N	N	2.5 Stars - Perfectly Average	Don't expect page turning narrative or gut wrenching internal conflicts in this short novel.  \\"Blessings\\" is a slowly paced sappy story of a man who finds an abandoned child while working on the wealthy estate of an elderly heiress.  Secrets are the theme of the novel, and Quindlen doesn't come up with any fresh or unfamiliar ones.  The main characters' lives are at first connected by circumstance of employment then by the love of the baby.  The story unfolds pretty much the way you think it will.  I experienced no surprises around the corner or startling revelations by the characters.  It's certainly not a challenging or exciting read, but it's not among the worst reads of the year either. My experience with the novel may be more an indication of my expectations of the author than extremely average writing.  After such stellar stories as \\"One True Thing\\" and \\"Black and Blue\\", I simply expected more from \\"Blessings.  While let down, I'm not fed up.  Hopefully Quindlen will return to her writing peak with the next novel.	2002-10-23
US	51716884	R3KSJRGXJZLR92	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Good.	The novel opens with a scene from a birthday party in honor of a Japanese business tycoon. The party is hosted by an unnamed country that is trying to woo the businessman into opening a factory and stimulating economic growth in the area.  The host country hires the businessman's favorite opera singer to perform for his birthday. Terrorist highjack the party in an attempt to kidnap the President of the host country; however their plans are thrown into disarray when it becomes apparent that the President is not in attendance.  Left with a room filled with highly influential guest from around the world, the terrorist lockdown the party and are forced to reevaluate their original mission.<br />\\"Bel Canto\\" has all the elements of a truly riveting suspense story.  The fact that the author has wrapped those elements in a canvas of romance and operatic tradition is probably what made this Pen/Faulkner Award Winner stand out.  Unfortunately for me, that same canvas distracted from what I thought would be a great story had the author focused on the tensions and politics behind the attempted kidnapping.  Instead, Patchett centers the story on the relationships that develop between hostage and kidnapper - some parental, some romantic, some platonic.  As the author explores the various relationships that develop among the characters, she maintains a musical undercurrent that influences every aspect of the hostage situation.  Music, opera in this case, not only soothed the \\"savage terrorist\\" but also spurred love and friendship.<br />Although I can appreciate the author's use of music throughout the novel (very creative), I am certain that this will be a more enjoyable read for opera enthusiast, which I am not.  The best parts of the novel for me were the beginning and the end.  Although everything in between is well written, it's not always well paced.  For those who encounter the slow parts of the novel I encourage you to stick with it.  I have no regrets about investing the time and I doubt you will either.the time and I doubt you will either.	2002-10-13
US	51716884	R2POSN5T3XP4AN	0449221431	922984988	The Novel	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Maybe I'll try him again later ? ?	I was surprised that I wasn't able to finish \\"The  Novel\\" . After hearing about Michener as one of America's more talented writers I leaped at the chance to purchase \\"The Novel\\" when I happened upon it while thrift shopping.  After reading the jacket and skimming a few pages I thought for sure this would be a great read.  \\"The Novel\\" is actually a series of short stories whose theme centers on the writing and publication of a novel.  The story is told from the perspectives of the writer, editor, critic, and reader.  As an aspiring writer I was immediately intrigued by the theme.  As a reader I was slowly disappointed in the book's inability to maintain my interest.  The writing was fine but the story moved along a bit too slow for me.  With over 450 pages a quicker pace is needed.  While I can't recommend \\"The Novel\\", I will give Michener another opportunity to live up to his reputation.	2002-09-28
US	51716884	RZBP6I8JUAO9F	0446530085	219114128	The Bondwoman's Narrative	Books	5	6	6	N	N	What a wonderful discovery!	\\"The Bondwoman's Narrative\\" is perhaps the earliest work of fiction by a black woman.  The novel details the journey of Hannah Crafts through slavery to her eventual escape to freedom.  The story is engaging, suspenseful, humorous and tragic all at once.  Yet, given the subject matter, I was rarely saddened by the events depicted in the novel.  During the most emotionally difficult parts of the story, where mistreatment, death, and extreme cruelty are revealed, the author provides soothing relief for the reader through her faith in a loving, protecting God.  I found it quite refreshing to read a slave narrative where the slaves' faith in God is used to elevate and encourage them to freedom as opposed to placate and conform them to slavery.<br />The book is beautifully written; authentic in tone, language and setting.  Gate's decision to leave the author's original editing marks as part of the published novel provided a peep into Crafts' writing process and choices while at the same time drawing me even closer to the author. I suggest that you read the novel prior to reading the Introduction.  I stopped a few pages into the Introduction for fear that I wold learn something through Gate's analysis that I would have picked up from the narrative on my own.  Having saved the Introduction and Textual Annotations for last, I return to the book in anticipation of the story about the story of Hannah Crafts.<br />I highly recommend this novel.  It should be welcomed into the American literary cannon.  Its content and style are deserving of the honor.  An excellent teaching and learning tool (an alternative to \\"Uncle Tom's Cabin\\" for sure!), that resonates with the spirit of love. There is something beyond strength throughout the pages of Hannah Crafts' story and Gates deserves kudos for making it available to the world. I can imagine Crafts at her writing desk above smiling down with gratitude.	2002-09-14
US	51716884	RF1ACW6FY6H9J	1586420283	857268860	Dolce Agonia: A Novel	Books	2	1	5	N	N	Puppets on the stage of life . . . or not	Wonderfully crafted and portrayed.  Huston uses a Thanksgiving dinner party as the setting for a richly layered story that recounts the lives of the guest in attendance.  During the course of the evening, the story reveals the joys and tragedies that make up the life of each character.  I thought Huston's choice of \\"God\\" as narrator is quite clever.  An all knowing, all seeing, full of wisdom, narrator.  That's an awful lot of narrative power!  And she uses it well.  Were it not for the \\"God\\" narrator the story could have come off scattered, as if pieced together helter-skelter by a writer with good imagination but poor organization.  Instead, the novel reads with ease and efficiency using the joy or misfortune in one character's life to launch a story portraying the joy or misfortune in another's.  The novel supports the belief that all human beings are connected, and to some extent, that our fate, really, is not in our own hands. That God does indeed have a wicked sense of humor.<br /> \\"Dolce Agonia\\" is a very well done book and an excellent introduction to a new writer.  Enjoy!<br />&lt;Revised review below><br />Those were my feelings after finishing \\"Dolce Agonia\\" and writing the above review.  The review was based on my initial reaction to the author's writing style and narrative device.  Those aspects of the novel I genuinely enjoyed. However, immediately after writing the review, I felt conflicted, uneasy with the review but comfortable with what I'd said.  I returned to the novel to reread specific sections that I'd marked with post-it notes.  Slowly, the sources of my conflict begin to surface.  I had been distracted by style, technique and an all too willing surrender of a critical eye to the all powerful all knowing narrator.  Upon second reading and some reflection, I begin to realize that at the seat of my discontent with Huston's text is her use of black characters and symbolism to evoke meaning based on stereotypes about race.  The black characters may not be the only one's in the novel that fell victim to the author's race-constrained imagination but I was particularly bothered by her unconscious assault on the African American race.<br />Case in point.  The first black character that is introduced in the novel is Charles.  The author describes him as \\"an elegant black man\\" immediately.  A poet, well learned, well known yet distanced from his race.  We learn through the narrator that Sean, the evening's host, took an immediate liking to Charles because, \\"though celebrated from coast to coast . . .\\", Charles \\"refused to teach a course in African American poetry\\".  His refusal was not to teach only African American poetry, but \\"a course\\".  The fact that teaching African American poetry is completely rejected by an African American poet serves to separate Charles immediately from the race to which he belongs.  It appears to me that here Huston is unable to imagine a renowned, African American poet, teaching African American poetry.  As if the inclusion of this genre of poetry lessens the accomplishments of the would be teacher.  Only a few sentences later, we learn perhaps, why Charles' separation from his race is needed: he's married to a white woman.  Although I find nothing problematic with the marriage, I find it interesting that the author reveals Myrna's (wife) race not directly through the narrator (e.g. \\"an elegant black man), but through another black character.<br />Within the span of fifteen lines, the author portrays an angry, bitter, revengeful Myrna.  \\"I'm gonna throw the book at you!\\" . . .\\"You murdered me!\\" . . . \\"You murdered my love for you!\\" . . .\\"Its over!\\" . . .\\"You're a dead [expletive] duck!\\"  These are the statements bulleted through the telephone to her husband, a clear measure of Myrna's rage and pain.  What, you may ask, could Charles have done to evoke venom of that magnitude?  \\" . . . a single afternoon spent in a hotel room exploring the luscious brown body of Anita Darven. . .\\".  With this single sentence, I knew immediately that Myrna was white.  In this case, Huston uses racial coloring and \\"sinful but delicious sensuality\\"* to not only justify Mryna's furry but also to inform the reader of Mryna's race.  For what other reason would Anita need to be \\"luscious and brown\\"?  Why is Anita's color important here?  Why doesn't the narrator directly inform us of Myrna's race as he does with Charles'?  Why is the author withholding Myrna's race, only thirty some pages into the novel, but reveals it directly much later in the book? These are the types of inquiries that deserve contemplation by the reader and self-examination by the author. Charles wrestles with internal racial conflict throughout the novel in much the same way that Huston struggles with conveying her black characters - moments of clarity, periods of confusion.  I've thoroughly documented many instances (much worse than this example) in the novel of Huston's race constrained imagination as far as black characters are concerned.  Unfortunately the analysis is too long for Amazon.com review requirements; however, I will send the entire critique to whoever request it.  I can be contacted at mauricewms@aol.com.<br />While I do take Huston to task on the workings of her literary imagination, I do realize that she operates within a fully racialized world where stereotypes abound.  It is challenging to free the imagination in such an environment but I give a nod to Huston for at least including a racial diverse cast of characters and wrestling with portraying those characters realistically.  A really ironic aspect of the novel is that Charle's youngest child is named after Toni Morrison because \\"Myrna, unlike Charles, revered the novelist Toni Morrison.\\"  Even though Huston acknowledges Morrison in the text, its obvious she is not informed by her literary critic titled \\"Playing in the Dark: Whiteness and the Literary Imagination\\" *.  It is precisely this essay that prompted me to read below the surface of good writing and clever technique..  With this single sentence, I knew immediately that Myrna was white.   In this case, Huston uses racial coloring and \\"sinful but delicious sensuality\\"* to not only justify Mryna's furry but also to inform the reader of Mryna's race.   For what other reason would Anita need to be \\"luscious and brown\\"?  Why is Anita's color important here?  Why doesn't the narrator directly inform us of Myrna's race as he does with Charles'?  Why is the author withholding Myrna's race, only thirty some pages into the novel, but reveals it directly much later in the book? These are the types of inquiries that deserve contemplation by the reader and self-examination by the author. Charles wrestles with internal racial conflict throughout the novel in much the same way that Huston struggles with conveying her black characters - moments of clarity, periods of confusion.  I've thoroughly documented many instances (much worse than this example) in the novel of Huston's race constrained imagination as far as black characters are concerned.  Unfortunately the analysis is too long for Amazon.com review requirements; however, I will send the entire critique to whoever request it.  I can be contacted at mauricewms@aol.com.<br />While I do take Huston to task on the workings of her literary imagination, I do realize that she operates within a fully racialized world where stereotypes abound.  It is challenging to free the imagination in such an environment but I give a nod to Huston for at least including a racial diverse cast of characters and wrestling with portraying those characters realistically.   A really ironic aspect of the novel is that Charle's youngest child is named after Toni Morrison because \\"Myrna, unlike Charles, revered the novelist Toni Morrison.\\"  Even though Huston acknowledges Morrison in the text, its obvious she is not informed by her literary critic titled \\"Playing in the Dark: Whiteness and the Literary Imagination\\" *.  It is precisely this essay that prompted me to read below the surface of good writing and clever technique.	2002-08-27
US	51716884	R2DTGASQ1Y2LX2	1403305331	123521476	Passion Marks	Books	2	11	17	N	Y	Too Much Drama, Not Enough Substance	Let me begin by acknowledging that abuse of any form in any relationship is unacceptable and must not be condoned or tolerated.  With that said, I must admit that \\"Passion Marks\\" falls short of the stuff that great novels are made of.  The author appears to have made no attempt at portraying the story by means of creative literary technique but instead chose to use a first person approach to tell the reader about a relationship soured from the beginning and without any hope of improving.  This novel brings to mind one of the first things I ever learned about fiction writing - that the novelist has to possess the ability to paint a picture with words.  He must be able to evoke in the reader some emotional connection to the story and/or the characters.  Harris fails completely at doing either. I felt no connection to the characters as I forced myself through page after page of clich&eacute;s and mundane adages.  I found neither the characters nor situations very believable.<br />As it relates to literary devices, it's my opinion that third person narrative would have served this story better than the first person account used by the author. The author, through Kevin, conveys to the reader how Kevin got into his torturous relationship and why he stays.  While this is important information for the reader, it may have been better conveyed using the third person narrative approach. In this way, the narrator is able to provide information about and analysis of the situations that contribute to Kevin's circumstances without it appearing as if Kevin has this knowledge already but is unable to use it (soon enough) to remove himself from the cruel and often vicious relationship. The author does attempt to convince the reader that Kevin stayed in the relationship because of some mystical and magical \\"connection\\" between him and James that resulted in James saving Kevin from killing himself.  But the connection is not believable.  Harris simply tells us that there is a connection and we are to believe it. He failed to pull together language and scenery that would support a connection so powerful that it would bind Kevin to James.<br />Throughout the story, Harris invokes the sprit of Kevin's dead twin as a means of helping Kevin overcome his circumstances, but even that device (and I'm a big believer in spirits) is used clumsily and results in unbelievable dialogue.  The horrific violence inflicted on Kevin and the fact that he endured it repeatedly leads me to believe that some monumental internal growth would be required to overcome and survive his plight.  I never felt that the protagonist was undergoing a significant enough transformation to triumph.  Neither verbiage nor imagery is effectively used to grow the characters throughout the novel.  In fact, James is able to disrupt and ravage Kevin's life until the very end.  Kevin's financial windfall - thrown in as an epilogue - is the author's attempt at literary comeuppance.  It's unfortunate that Harris chose to resort to a material representation of the reward for surviving physical and emotional torture.  The subject matter would have been better served by portraying a character whose internal growth and self-assurance is the prize of his triumph.  ,<br />The entire text reads like a script for a two-hour special of a Jerry Springer-meet-E. Lynn Harris soap opera.  While I can't recommend this one to my immediate circle of reading enthusiast, I suspect the novel will find an audience.  If this book does nothing else for its readership I hope that it convinces them that domestic violence, when not dealt with quickly, legally and decisively, will only lead to disaster.d we are to believe it. He failed to pull together language and scenery that would support a connection so powerful that it would bind Kevin to James.  <br />Throughout the story, Harris invokes the sprit of Kevin's dead twin as a means of helping Kevin overcome his circumstances, but even that device (and I'm a big believer in spirits) is used clumsily and results in unbelievable dialogue.  The horrific violence inflicted on Kevin and the fact that he endured it repeatedly leads me to believe that some monumental internal growth would be required to overcome and survive his plight.  I never felt that the protagonist was undergoing a significant enough transformation to triumph.  Neither verbiage nor imagery is effectively used to grow the characters throughout the novel.  In fact, James is able to disrupt and ravage Kevin's life until the very end.  Kevin's financial windfall - thrown in as an epilogue - is the author's attempt at literary comeuppance.  It's unfortunate that Harris chose to resort to a material representation of the reward for surviving physical and emotional torture.  The subject matter would have been better served by portraying a character whose internal growth and self-assurance is the prize of his triumph.  , <br />The entire text reads like a script for a two-hour special of a Jerry Springer-meet-E. Lynn Harris soap opera.  While I can't recommend this one to my immediate circle of reading enthusiast, I suspect the novel will find an audience.  If this book does nothing else for its readership I hope that it convinces them that domestic violence, when not dealt with quickly, legally and decisively, will only lead to disaster.	2002-08-15
US	51716884	R36IDFNWA0H0N0	0435905805	951626201	The Narrow Path (African Writers)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good read, good story, good experience	\\"The Narrow Path\\" is the coming of age story of a young Ghanaian boy during 1920's colonial rule.  Selormey, via the main character Kofi, takes us on an educational and cultural journey as Kofu tries to navigate through childhood and adolescence under the rigid cultural and religious guidance of his father.  Kofi's story is told in the tradition of the African fable.  The novel is well paced with clear and concise prose.  The language is vernacularly accurate and easily absorbed by the reader.  I read the book prior to vacationing in Ghana.  I hoped to get primed for the cultural experience prior to my trip.  During my stay, I found that much of the tradition captured in the novel is still in practice today.  Excellent reading material for students and readers of all ages.  Enjoy!	2002-08-01
US	51716884	R12ITZROLPCWUE	038533334X	575060326	Charming Billy	Books	1	3	10	N	N	Slamming Billy!	This certainly makes my list for 2002 worse reads.  After 80 pages, I've given up (and it's a short novel!)  The author's writing style displays a certain skill with the craft, however; her craftiness is wasted on a dull story line and even more dull characters.  I found the pace languid which made a challenging writing style an even more laborious read.<br />The novel opens with a scene from Billy's repast.  Billy appears to be a gentle drunk whose life ended long before alcoholism killed him.  During the repast, family and friends recall aspects of Billy's life, setting the stage for a more detailed portrayal of his life and the circumstances that lead him to abuse alcohol.  Unfortunately, Billy life (at least the first 80 pages) bored me completely.  I'm not certain of the criteria used by the National Book Award committee to select its winners but this story has very little appeal.  Based on the average rating here and conversation with others who've attempted the book (I have yet to talk to anyone who has actually completed it) it doesn't appear that I'm alone in my assessment.  Can't recommend this one.	2002-07-02
US	51716884	R17IX70YPZVFY0	0060000791	178480096	The Treasure of Montsegur: A Novel of the Cathars	Books	5	27	29	N	N	There's so much to praise about this novel !	I am absolutely delighted with this novel.  Rarely do I come across a novel that fully engages me on so many levels. Even more rare that such a novel would be set in 1200 France, as my tolerance for historical fiction in general is pretty low. Yet this novel captivated me. From the first paragraph I was hooked and wanted to know more. In the midst of a very busy work and life schedule, I found myself stealing time to read a page here, a chapter there.  Excited about getting to the end but not wanting to really finish the book.  \\"The Treasure of Montsegur\\" is written in the tradition of a tragic love story, yet its historical relevance is not diminished.  The author provides a well-researched background on the Catholic Crusades in France that tortured and killed thousands of people during the 1200s.  The novel is framed in the axiom that history repeats itself and is richly layered with historical, religious, spiritual, and tragic elements of the period.<br />Burnham tells the story in voices as layered as the storyline. The novel centers on the life of a woman named Jeanne.  Found in a field by Cathers after the Crusaders raid her village. Jeanne is raised in the Cather faith and eventually becomes a revolutionary in the struggle to maintain the faith despite the Catholic Inquisitions.  Jeanne is a fully realized character who loves, sins, betrays, falls, rises, heals. Using both narrative and first person (Jeanne), the author educates the reader on the horrors of the Cather annihilation while at the same time inviting the reader on a spiritual journey of love.<br />Burnham's writing is absolutely superb.  The rhythm of the language and choice of words creates a reading space that provides immediate access to the period and the conditions under which people lived and tried to navigate their way through religious domination and spiritual fulfillment.  On many occasions I had to research words and go beyond the first definition to find an archaic definition that would provide greater meaning to the sentence.  At times, the reading experience was very much like piecing together a puzzle.  The satisfaction of completing a puzzle comparable to the delight experienced each time I found a definition that fit.  The story further motivated me to research the actual massacre at Montsegur, leaving me much better informed on the subject than I was prior to reading the novel.<br />I certainly hope that this novel finds its way into the classroom.  What a wonderful way to initiate discussion on the Catholic Inquisitions.  After having found an advanced reader's copy of the novel at a thrift shop, I consider this to be one of my greatest reading treasures.  Highly recommended!would provide greater meaning to the sentence.  At times, the reading experience was very much like piecing together a puzzle.  The satisfaction of completing a puzzle comparable to the delight experienced each time I found a definition that fit.  The story further motivated me to research the actual massacre at Montsegur, leaving me much better informed on the subject than I was prior to reading the novel.<br />I certainly hope that this novel finds its way into the classroom.  What a wonderful way to initiate discussion on the Catholic Inquisitions.  After having found an advanced reader's copy of the novel at a thrift shop, I consider this to be one of my greatest reading treasures.  Highly recommended!	2002-06-07
US	51716884	R202JHAJYZZF3O	0385502958	283373025	The Queen of Harlem	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A solid novel and meaningful read	\\"The Queen of Harlem\\" is the story of a wealthy, black college graduate's struggle for independence and identity.  Malik, southern born and raised, takes on the characteristics of an urban hip-hop \\"bratha' \\" and moves to Harlem to round out his international post-undergraduate travel experiences.  He rents a room in a Harlem townhouse inhabited by Carmen, an older sophisticated socialite, and sets out to blend into the community racially and socially.  As the story unfolds, the reader learns that Carmen has as much to hide as Malik.  Both have an uncanny ability to reinvent themselves to fit the mode of the minute.  Both try to find their place in the universe by rejecting the life they were given for a life they create.  Through their relationship, the author demonstrates that reality is relative and unique to the person experiencing it.<br />Jackson articulates the dichotomy experienced by wealthy blacks who are neither fully accepted by the elitist mainstream culture nor the larger, less wealthy, black community. Sandwiched between racism and classism, Malik embarks on a journey that proves more valuable than his most exotic travels. The story will be validating to some and educating to others.  I found the plot enjoyable and the final twist makes the novel worth while. The writing is clear and the characters are interesting enough to keep you reading.  A solid novel and meaningful read.	2002-05-15
US	51716884	R3GWTZ9GI6MT78	0375507477	141548990	A Song Flung Up to Heaven	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Nice	If you are an Angelou fan, that is, you've read all of her autobiographical work and are familiar with a wide range of her poetry and essays, then you are bound to be torn by her latest autobiographical piece, \\"A Sung Flung Up To Heaven.\\"  Although the writing is vibrant and accessible as usual, her story seems to be missing any new insights, or wisdom.  There is very little in this writing that she hasn't said in previous accounts. There were sections of the book that appeared to be reiterated from previous work, yet the author seems to hold back when writing about the death of Malcom X and Dr. M. L. King.  I thought for sure that Angelou's memory of those events would be told with more vivid detail and personal reflection.<br />Overall, the book is an easy and interesting read.  As a huge fan, I'm always excited to devour any of Angelou's work.  I'm usually fully satiated by the experience, in this case however; I'm not as full as I could be and another helping of Angelou is in order.	2002-05-06
US	51716884	R2OCV9FSYEK4CV	0743427157	100314387	The Envy of the World: On Being a Black Man in America	Books	5	34	35	N	Y	Kudos!	\\"The Envy of the World\\" is perhaps the most powerful material I've read this year. In these pages is a wealth of knowledge that validates the struggle of African-American men and describe what it is to be a Black man in America.  Hard-hitting, with a soft glove, the book details factual, insightful and hopeful accounts of the challenges and triumphs of African American men.  Cose provides a critical analysis of the role that racism, stereotypes and failed government and penal institutions play in the daily lives and experiences of American Black men.  How the acceptance of those stereotypes has lead to self-destructive and extreme behavior in men of color in general and Black men in particular.  This is a book that should be read by the masses but is certainly required for African-American men.  Cose has articulated the commonalties of the Black male's (rich or poor, young or old) experience in America with language that is concise, accessible and fully loaded.  Empowering in tone and spirit, \\"The Envy of the World\\" is not always an ideal position to be in; that which is envied ought to be free.  In a move to liberate the mind and souls of Black men, Cose wraps up his report with twelve rules that are invaluable to our daily lives and ongoing growth.  This is certainly the best purchase I've made this year and I will be distributing gift copies for some time to come.	2002-05-03
US	51716884	RS14WFB9G8OD7	0452271320	238907408	Pagan Babies	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Missed the Mark	This was a random purchase while perusing a thrift shop on a Saturday afternoon.  The novel begins with its main characters, Janice and Clifford, at a catholic elementary school.  I expect that the novel will end with them as adults with a host of issues resulting from their catholic upbringing.  I don't know for certain that this is the case because after 100 pages of text I lost interest in the story, characters and author.  Johnson doesn't offer any cleaver insight into \\"The Church\\" or how its influence affects the psyche of the characters.  The writing is clear, nothing really creative, but easy enough to digest.<br />Those readers who have grown up or are growing up catholic, may better connect with the characters and story given their familiarity with some of the rudimentary scenes offered in the novel. As a non-Catholic, I had hoped that the author would be able to introduce and connect me to a catholic upbringing experience through his character's story.  Perhaps, I had hoped, the author would offer some insight or perspective on the history of sexual abuse within the church.  Well no such luck.  Due to languid, flat characters and image-less writing, I could not commit to the remaining half of the novel.  Unfortunately, the best part of the book seems to be the review on the back page.  Can't recommend this one.	2002-04-24
US	51716884	RBQFAEQKX1RT5	0375757724	209541318	Between Brothers: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	2	4	5	N	Y	No depth.	\\"Between Brothers\\" is set on a factitious Washington DC HBCU (Historically Black College/University) campus.  The plot sets four of the college students as roommates who volunteer at a local community center that has lost government funding and is in danger of closing.  Together, the four students rescue the university from the deliberate financial mismanagement of one of its managers.  Rolly Orange is the financial manager of the Community Center and part of a covert scheme - orchestrated by Nico, the local drug dealer, and Buzz, a wealthy white real-estate developer - to destroy the center.  The destruction of the center would make the land available for a gentrification project, representing a financial landslide for Buzz.  Nico's interest is served, as the pool of poor neighborhood kid without the support of the Center's programs would turn to dealing/using drugs.  Orange is paid well by both Nico and Buzz for his inside work to sabotage the Center.<br />While the four students attempt to unravel the foul deed in progress, they are also engaged in reconciling issues of class-ism, color prejudice, racism, morality, spirituality, religion, politics, love, and probably a few other social concerns.  The author includes about every social issue faced by black men today.  He uses the university to represent a microcosm of greater society although I found that the issues he introduces are only dealt with on a very surface level. For the young / beginning reader, this may be a valuable read.  If nothing else, Robinson's main characters are positive young black men and women educating themselves and trying to support the surrounding community by giving back to the Center. I applaud him for that effort. The novel falls short however, on many levels.  The plot unfolds in basic linear fashion and is predictable to the final chapter. The story line lacks depth and complexity.  The language is flat and non-emotive; the writing seems overly structured and deliberate, removing any aspects of creativity and originality.  The author's decision to practically eliminate the use of profanity creates unrealistic dialogue in many instances.  While I understand the author's desire to write a \\"clean\\" book, I didn't get the impression that his characters were speaking in authentic voice when \\"dang\\" is used when \\"damn\\" would have been much more appropriate.  I can not recommend this one for those who enjoy a complex, layered novel rich with imagery and fully realized characters.  I will recommend it to young or beginning readers, I believe there's something there for that readership.ng any aspects of creativity and originality.  The author's decision to practically eliminate the use of profanity creates unrealistic dialogue in many instances.  While I understand the author's desire to write a \\"clean\\" book, I didn't get the impression that his characters were speaking in authentic voice when \\"dang\\" is used when \\"damn\\" would have been much more appropriate.   I can not recommend this one for those who enjoy a complex, layered novel rich with imagery and fully realized characters.  I will recommend it to young or beginning readers, I believe there's something there for that readership.	2002-04-16
US	51716884	R18HG7CN0T7FJD	0679729771	587113700	002: Maus II: A Survivor's Tale: And Here My Troubles Began (Pantheon Graphic Novels)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Very well done	This continuation of Vladek's holocaust experience is as informative and enjoying a read as the first installation.  The author's ability to convey such a dreadful tale through the levity of a comic strip makes the story easily accessible and quite memorable.  Worthy of its Pulitzer recognition and a definite recommended read.	2002-04-03
US	51716884	R2XPEZ79VF9MZ3	0684855887	975511373	Middle Passage	Books	1	15	31	N	N	National Book Award?????	It has taken me way too long to finish this novel and I've never been more thrilled to get to the end of a book!  \\"Middle Passage\\" is the story of a wayward freed slave in 1830's New Orleans.  Rutherford stows away, unknowingly, on a ship set for Africa in search of slaves and treasures.  After purchasing a tribe of Africans and the God they worship, the ship sets sail for its return to America.  The slaves orchestrate a mutiny and take control of the ship. The crew suffers severe injuries at the hands of the rebelling Africans.  The ship suffers even worse damage from a storm.  The captain kills himself, unable to face his American investors after losing control of his ship and its loot.  There's much more killing, and maiming, and flesh eating, and vomiting and bleeding.  Then, the weather battered ship sinks but Rutherford and the ship's cook are rescued by a passing boat. They return to New Orleans...<br />Rutherford tells the story via journal entries.  The author stays true to the language of the period, an award winning feat for the writer but dreadfully laborious and dull for this reader.  This is the second novel I've read by Charles Johnson and I've concluded that this author just doesn't do it for me.  I found the novel required too much effort and didn't provide nearly enough payoff.  Can't recommend this one.	2002-03-30
US	51716884	R2JZ1MGWU55SDE	0743237196	434448992	Fall on Your Knees-Oprah #45 (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Good, Good, Good	\\"Fall on Your Knees\\" is the epic journey of three generations of the Piper family.  During the early 1900's on a small island in Nova Scotia, a young thirteen-year-old Arab girl develops a crush on the local piano tuner.  Materia is from a wealthy Arab family who has immigrated to Canada from Lebanon.  James is the descendant of poor Irish immigrates.  The two elope, resulting in the banishment of Materia by her family for marrying poor and white.  From this union spurs the turbulent and dysfunctional family dynamics that will haunt the Pipers for the next two generations.<br />MacDonald has created a fictional piece that encompasses all aspects of human relations.  She reveals her characters though their beliefs, their relationship to family, neighbors, and themselves.  With near poetic writing, demonstrating both a command of language and a mastery of expression, the novel examines the role of religion, race, sexism, and class on an island where there is an abundance of them all.  My only conflict with the novel is MacDonald's treatment of Ginger, a strong, black, hardworking, family man who is admired for his \\"goodness\\".  Although I was quite impressed that she didn't use the character in an overtly stereotypic way, I feel she ultimately fell prey to a very stereotypic notion of a black man's desire for a white woman.  A desire so overwhelming that in the face of all his \\"goodness\\" he's not able to overcome the stalker-like advances of a sly and bewitching Frances.  Or, perhaps this isn't the case at all.  Perhaps what MacDonald is saying is that no matter how good the man, he's still a man.  The ability to read meaning into text based on one's experience is the only way to determine and MadDonald provides many opportunities for the alert reader to pull meaning from her text.<br />\\"Fall On Your Knees\\" is wonderful reading and brilliant story telling.  The author commingles narrative and first person voices with the ease of the most skilled of writers.  The novel is as loving as it is tragic, as disturbing as it is compelling.  It's romantic, and musical, supernatural and mystical.  It's a journey well worth taking.  Kudos to MacDonald for an incredible debut writing performance!ovel is as loving as it is tragic, as disturbing as it is compelling.  It's romantic, and musical, supernatural and mystical.  It's a journey well worth taking.  Kudos to MacDonald for an incredible debut writing performance!	2002-03-10
US	51716884	R30QGX1HLW4A3	0385503822	782272714	The Summons	Books	1	7	8	N	N	The last time he'll disappoint me	This is definitely the last straw! Grisham has managed to consistently disappoint me with each novel he's written since the &quot;Pelican Brief.&quot; It must be a writer's worse nightmare to fall slave to a contract or publishing advance that forces you to write lifeless uninteresting novels like \\" The Summons.\\"  I would comment on the plot and characters in the novel but they're both so flat that they're not worthy of mention.  Half way through the novel I simply gave up, acknowledging that I am turning Grisham in for better material.  His last ten novels have succeeded in diminishing the value and credibility of his first three.  He seems much more capable of producing mediocre, uninspired, sophomoric reading material than producing anything of serious novelistic value.  You should not waste your time or money with this.  He's not getting any better so don't waste your shelf space.  I'm selling everything I own by him.	2002-02-18
US	51716884	R29HPLQVHI7XP3	0394747232	587113700	My Father Bleeds History	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Creative and informative	This is certainly a very interesting piece of work. I struggle with trying to classify the book because it seems a combination of many types of literature.  The layout is like that of a comic strip yet there's nothing humorous about the subject matter.  Written like a novel but an actual life account.  \\"Maus . . .\\" is the first illustrated book I've ever read and I find the use of cartoons actually enhanced the narrative.  In \\"Maus . . .\\" the author steps outside himself to tell the story of his father's life during the Holocaust.  The cartoons are an excellent way to reinforce the power differential among the characters.  Spiegelman portrays the Nazis as cats, Jews as mice and non-Jew Poles as pigs.  Through these character lenses, the author provides a very moving account of his father's experience while not risking the chance of loosing those who don't want to read a serious or depressing book (I find this one to be neither).  The drawings were distracting enough to not overwhelm me with the horrors of the Holocaust yet interesting enough to keep me reading.  This is a good read for all ages and should certainly go a long way in educating children on a significant aspect of world history. It's a short, fast read that delivers so much information for so little reading effort.  A creative well executed effort on the part of Spiegelman and an enjoyable reading experience for the reader.	2002-02-09
US	51716884	R3UZ7COX8KV022	0312202318	601611030	A Home at the End of the World: A Novel	Books	4	14	19	N	N	Good writing, good story, great characters	\\"A House At The End Of The World\\" is a tightly woven story about the lives of three families.  We are first introduced to Jonathan and his family, consisting of mom, dad, (Alice, Ned) and the emotional effects of a second stillborn child.  On the surface, this family is the perfect picture of early 1960's suburban midwestern normalcy.  In the background, however; is a mother who is more committed to the institution of marriage, than the man she's married.  She falls helplessly into the role of house maker and mother and ignores the fact that she's married to a man who no longer stimulates her emotionally, sexually, or intellectually.  Ned - handsome, wholesome and hardworking - owns a local theatre where he spends most of his waking hours trying to get ahead in life but not living it.  Jonathan, the sole surviving son in the family becomes the focus of his mother's love and attention.  He becomes her best friend and primary source of fulfillment.  Jonathan in turn adores her until adolescence and a new friend (Bobby) arrive on the scene.<br />Bobby's family is quickly introduced.  Mom and dad are teachers and live on the cusp of the hippie revolution and the 1950's reserve in which they were raised.  The tragic death of their oldest son, whom Bobby idolizes, is the beginning of the family's demise.  His mother, grief stricken and depressed, dies from an overdose of sleeping pills. A few years later, the father dies when he falls asleep while smoking and the house catches fire.  Bobby and Jonathan meet in junior high and become devoted friends.  Jonathan is in love with Bobby and his \\"otherness\\" - his unique but sparse clothing, his music and hippie like existence (learned from his older brother).  Bobby is in love with the secure family life Jonathan seems to have in light of the tragedies his own family has endured.<br />Upon graduating from high school, the boys lives move down separate paths but remain joined by the relationship Bobby has developed with Jonathan's parents.  Bobby and Alice open a restaurant in town while Jonathan heads to New York City for college.  While in New York, Jonathan meets and becomes roommates with Clare, a mid-thirties hippie throwback who serves as best friend, mentor and mother.  Both share an apartment and try to figure out matters of life, love, and happiness.<br />The third family in the novel consists of Bobby, Clare and Jonathan.  Bobby seeks a fresh start in New York after Alice and Ned is forced to move to Arizona due to Ned's emphysema.  Bobby, Clare and Jonathan become roommates and eventually share a love that rejects all traditional notions of family.  In love and loss, the triad set out to secure a place in the world where they can reconcile their past and build a family that is inextricability bound to one another in life, love and hopes for happiness. Theirs are the most interesting family dynamics in the book, in my opinion.<br />This is a very well written novel.  Cunningham has once again demonstrated a superb command of language and storytelling ability. The characters reflect a range of emotions and frailties that adds depth to the novel and helps to maintain interest in the story.  This is the second novel I've read by Cunningham and I'm looking forward to catching up on some of his other work.  He's certainly earned a place on my preferred author's list.  Enjoy!han's parents.  Bobby and Alice open a restaurant in town while Jonathan heads to New York City for college.  While in New York, Jonathan meets and becomes roommates with Clare, a mid-thirties hippie throwback who serves as best friend, mentor and mother.  Both share an apartment and try to figure out matters of life, love, and happiness.  <br />The third family in the novel consists of Bobby, Clare and Jonathan.  Bobby seeks a fresh start in New York after Alice and Ned is forced to move to Arizona due to Ned's emphysema.  Bobby, Clare and Jonathan become roommates and eventually share a love that rejects all traditional notions of family.  In love and loss, the triad set out to secure a place in the world where they can reconcile their past and build a family that is inextricability bound to one another in life, love and hopes for happiness. Theirs are the most interesting family dynamics in the book, in my opinion.  <br />This is a very well written novel.  Cunningham has once again demonstrated a superb command of language and storytelling ability. The characters reflect a range of emotions and frailties that adds depth to the novel and helps to maintain interest in the story.  This is the second novel I've read by Cunningham and I'm looking forward to catching up on some of his other work.  He's certainly earned a place on my preferred author's list.  Enjoy!	2002-02-03
US	51716884	R2FP4D7SUCCUJA	0385420161	507593319	Like Water for Chocolate: A Novel in Monthly Installments, with Recipes, Romances, and Home Remedies	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Greedy for more . . .	This novel is sure to awaken all the senses!  A deliciously woven story of culture and tradition, served over a bed of marvelous family recipes and garnished with the passion that only forbidden love can produce.  \\"Like Water for Chocolate\\" is the story of three generations of Mexican women striving to secure a place of peace and happiness within a family immersed in traditions that are based more on sacrifice than nurturance.  In the novel, we are introduced to the De La Graza family, headed by Mama Elena.  Mama Elena rules her family with an iron claw.  Uncompromising and unwilling to yield to anything that breaks tradition or the perception that her family is the model of refinement.<br />Tita, the youngest daughter, falls madly in love with Pedro, a man she is not allowed to marry.  The customs of the family requires the youngest daughter to never wed.  Instead, she is to take care of her mother until either of them dies.  When Pedro comes to Mama Elena to ask for her permission to marry Tita, he is denied.  Rosaura is offered instead; being the older sister and available for marriage.  Pedro agrees to marry Rosaura as a way to stay close to Tita.  Rosaura, being the obedient daughter, marries Pedro without consideration of the effect her marriage would have on Tita.<br />Gertrudis, a third sister, is the first to break free of Mama Elena's rule. Tita prepares a meal using roses pedals from a bouquet she received from Pedro (after he's married Rosaura). The roses re-ignite Tita's desires for Pedro.  Mama Elena disapproves of Pedro's gift and demands that Tita destroy it.  Instead, Tita uses the roses in a recipe.  Stained with blood from the tight embrace with which Tita cradled them, she makes a sauce that will be served over quail at a dinner party.  As the guest eat the quail in rose petal sauce, they are overwhelmed with desire, clutched by lust and longing. Tita and Pedro appear to be the source of the powerful passion.  The chemistry between them flows through Gertrudis, filling her with passion so hot, so intense that she is unable to contain it.  Neither cool air nor cold shower can extinguish the fire within her.  Fleeing from a useless cold shower, Gertrudis runs naked through an open field in an effort to escape the fire of desire.  She is swept away by a soldier on horseback who had fallen madly in love after capturing a single glance of her in the village plaza.  This is but one example of how Esquirel blends the elements of food and passion to produce a splendid novel.<br />My only regret is that I can't read Spanish.  On more than one occasion I felt there was something missing in the English translation of the novel.  In her native language, I'm sure the author is able to express more fully the delightfully sensuous and deliciously romantic sentiments that the translators were not able to capture in English.  A very solid and fun novel.  Enjoy!through Gertrudis, filling her with passion so hot, so intense that she is unable to contain it.  Neither cool air nor cold shower can extinguish the fire within her.  Fleeing from a useless cold shower, Gertrudis runs naked through an open field in an effort to escape the fire of desire.  She is swept away by a soldier on horseback who had fallen madly in love after capturing a single glance of her in the village plaza.   This is but one example of how Esquirel blends the elements of food and passion to produce a splendid novel. <br />My only regret is that I can't read Spanish.  On more than one occasion I felt there was something missing in the English translation of the novel.  In her native language, I'm sure the author is able to express more fully the delightfully sensuous and deliciously romantic sentiments that the translators were not able to capture in English.    A very solid and fun novel.  Enjoy!	2002-01-12
US	51716884	RQH6X7U77WNYH	0446520802	430421115	The Notebook	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Just o.k.	This is a good example of how a good writer can breathe life into an overused story line and capture the hearts of millions in the process.  \\"The Notebook\\" is the quintessential love story.  The novel centers on the love shared between its primary characters Noah and Allie. The two fall in love after meeting during summer vacation.  It's the 1930's.  They are teenagers.  Noah, a strong quiet local boy from New Bern, reads Allie poetry and shares sunrises with her.  Allie, a beautiful wealthy southern aristocrat has a gift for painting and is able to capture on canvas the love that is shared between them (I'm trying not to puke now).  Allie's parents do not approve of the courtship so when summer vacation is over, so is the love between Allie and Noah . . . or so you think?  Needless to say, after may years of separation - Noah going to war, Allie going to college - the two meet again and discover that their love has never faded.  The only problem is that Allie is engage to be married in a few weeks.<br />What separates this novel from the heap of lesser works put forth with the same story line is Spark's writing style.  The language is simple, allowing for a speedy read although at times the simplicity under serves the story.  On more than one occasion I wanted more descriptive language, especially since the characters were so artistic. The first person account of the story by Noah provides an element of intimacy that kept me reading when I wanted to toss the book.  Overall,  \\"The Notebook\\" is a good read.  It may be an even better movie.	2002-01-04
US	51716884	R1EOZXHXIZCPKR	0743418239	676357591	The Third Life of Grange Copeland	Books	4	44	46	N	N	Very Well Done!	Walker sets the tone in this first novel for what has become a career of writing that liberates and educates.  In \\"The Third Life of Grange Copeland\\", the author details an American tragedy, perhaps the great American tragedy, of a family destroyed by the effects of racial oppression in rural 1920's Georgia.  We are introduced to father and son (Grange and Brownfield respectively) who collapse emotionally, mentally, and spiritually under the weight of what it is to be a Black man in this country.  Although the majority of the story takes place pre Civil Rights Era, the effects of racial oppression portrayed in the novel are visible to the alert reader today.<br />We are first introduced to Grange who has worked on a plantation enduring the hatred and cruelty from his white boss for so long he does not know what it is to be a man.  Dismissed, disrespected and dejected, Grange's disdain for the oppressor implodes creating a hollow, spiritless shell of a man.  In an effort to exert a misdirected sense of manhood, or perhaps feel what it's like to have the upper hand in something, Grange attempts to liberate himself by drinking, gambling and womanizing, further separating himself from a wife and son he feels unable to love, honor or protect. Grange endures the final insult at the hands of his tormentor when the plantation owner impregnates his wife.  He heads North with hopes of finding something better, something new.  It is up North that his metamorphosis begins allowing him to return to the South with a newfound sense of self and responsibility.<br />Brownfield, Grange's son, is orphaned when his father leaves and his mother kills herself and her mulatto infant.  Father and son meet again when Grange returns home and Brownfield has married. The dynamics of their relationship during this time is the true jewel of this novel.  Brownfield finds himself in the same situation as his father - working a plantation, barley able to provide for his family, and eventually stripped of all self-respect.  Having married an educated woman, he felt further minimized by his lack of schooling.  Repeating the pattern of his father, Brownfield turns to a life of free spirits, using whatever force he can muster within him to reduce his wife (\\"knock her down a notch\\") to his standard of existence.<br />Walker is relentless in her assertion that resistance, at any cost, is the secret of joy, the road to liberation.  She is steadfast in her rejection of the subjugation of women by the patriarchy; unwavering in her denunciation of racial oppression.  \\"The Third Life of Grange Copeland\\" is a very well done first novel.  Definitely representative of the acclaim Walker's later work has achieved.  Highly recommended.stripped of all self-respect.  Having married an educated woman, he felt further minimized by his lack of schooling.   Repeating the pattern of his father, Brownfield turns to a life of free spirits, using whatever force he can muster within him to reduce his wife (\\"knock her down a notch\\") to his standard of existence.  <br />Walker is relentless in her assertion that resistance, at any cost, is the secret of joy, the road to liberation.   She is steadfast in her rejection of the subjugation of women by the patriarchy; unwavering in her denunciation of racial oppression.  \\"The Third Life of Grange Copeland\\" is a very well done first novel.  Definitely representative of the acclaim Walker's later work has achieved.  Highly recommended.	2001-12-07
US	51716884	R2DGAU0RYBEUEM	0688152430	589165254	River Angel: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An excellent, quick read	A testament to mans desire to believe in something.  River Angel is the story of how legend, belief and reality fuse in the fictional town of Ambient, Wisconsin.  The circumstances surrounding the death of a child (Gabriel) lead some to believe that the childs death was accompanied by a miraculous intervention from God.  The death of Gabriel provides the opportunity for the town residents to affirm or denounce their belief in prayer, miracles and the will of an all-powerful God.  The novel asks the reader to consider what he/she believes in, what you know to be true.  There is no right or wrong answer, but the question and the pursuit of its answer is sure to be a remarkable journey - hopefully on the wings of an angel. Ansays writing is near flawless, her use of symbolism significant but not overbearing.  An excellent, quick read.	2001-11-18
US	51716884	R304HN0193N21B	0374100128	647099960	The Corrections	Books	1	8	12	N	N	It just doesn't add up. . . .	I, like many reviewers here, am at a loss for the literary significance of this book.  For those who've read my reviews in the past, you know that I have the 100-page rule.  If an author can't engage me in the first 100 pages of the novel, I can't commit to finishing it upon the first reading attempt.  In the first 100 pages of \\"The Corrections\\", we are introduced to brother, sister and aging parents, all of whom failed to interest me in the least bit.  I'd like to think that things pick-up later in the novel but based on the reviews posted thus far I suspect it doesn't get much better.  Given the literary and mainstream publicity afforded this novel, I'm hard pressed to understand how, with over 100 reviews, the novel only averages 3.5 stars on a 5 star scale.  I'm afraid this novel has distracted the reading public from a much more powerful and engaging novel released around the same time (see \\"About The Author\\" by John Colapinto).  \\"The Corrections\\" is no masterpiece.  Once the media mania ends perhaps I'll attempt to read this one again.	2001-10-30
US	51716884	R1X14CSOFFI05C	0374100128	647099960	The Corrections	Books	1	3	4	N	N	It just doesn't add up. . . .	I, like many reviewers here, am at a loss for the literary significance of this book.  For those who've read my reviews in the past, you know that I have the 100-page rule.  If an author can't engage me in the first 100 pages of the novel, I can't commit to finishing it upon the first reading attempt.  In the first 100 pages of \\"The Corrections\\", we are introduced to brother, sister and aging parents, all of whom failed to interest me in the least bit.  I'd like to think that things pick-up later in the novel but based on the reviews posted thus far I suspect it doesn't get much better.  Given the literary and mainstream publicity afforded this novel, I'm hard pressed to understand how, with over 100 reviews, the novel only averages 3.5 stars on a 5 star scale.  I'm afraid this novel has distracted the reading public from a much more powerful and engaging novel released around the same time (see \\"About The Author\\" by John Colapinto).  \\"The Corrections\\" is no masterpiece.  Once the media mania ends perhaps I'll attempt to read this one again.	2001-10-30
US	51716884	RWSGCOJLN8CBG	0854492461	699171339	Skin Deep	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Exquisitely written. . . . Powerful character dynamics.	\\"Skin Deep\\" explores the realm of human sexuality and racial interactions within London's gay culture during the '90s.  On the surface, the novel is an erotic and romanticized portrayal of the relationships between the various characters (that's enough to grab the attention of many :-)).  At the heart of the novel is a highly intelligent discussion of issues that lie at the underbelly of gay culture (this is the prize).  From interracial relationships to sexual fetishism, the novel expounds on the various notions at work, consciously and subconsciously, during the characters' quest for love and freedom.  Ray and Chris are the novel's central characters; black men whose friendship allows for a frank and honest dialogue on Ray's attraction to and desire for white men, and Chris's sexual proclivities towards S&amp;M and dominance.  Through these characters, Gordon is able to dissect and expose some of the most complicated emotional, social and psychological matter that lies beneath the surface of their desires.<br />In \\"Skin Deep\\", Gordon has produced an edifying, funny, and passionate account of characters engaged in life and in pursuit of the satisfaction that romantic and friendship relations can bring.  Nearly every sentence imparts wisdom and causes an internal examination of the reader's perspective. \\"Skin Deep\\" achieves profoundly where \\"Traitor To The Race\\" (click on name link above to see this review) failed miserably. It's the type of novel that should be read with someone else and reread later.  Kudos to Gordon for delivering a brave and solid novel with lasting effects.	2001-10-26
US	51716884	R2Q92CL19FBQVI	006109868X	767963707	Pigs in Heaven	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Its no Poisonwood or Bean Trees	When I found a hardcover edition of this novel on sale I thought, \\"What a Deal!\\"  After reading \\"The Poisonwood Bible\\" and \\"The Bean Trees\\", I was sure Pigs would be a real treat.  After finishing \\"The Bean Trees\\", I remember wanting the characters to stick around a little longer, move next door even.  \\"Pigs In Heaven\\" is Kingslovers attempt to continue to breathe new life into her former characters.<br />In this account, Turtle witnesses a man \\"disappear\\" into the spillway of Hoover Dam.  She tells Taylor what she's seen, and Taylor is left with the challenge of convincing adults that there is truth in what the child is saying.  They finally meet a groundskeeper who is familiar with the man, based on the description provided by Turtle.  Upon the groundskeeper investigation of the story, he learns that it's true.  The man (Lucky) is rescued and Turtle and Taylor become heroes with celebrity status.<br />They are invited to be on the Oprah Show where the talk show host is featuring children who have performed heroic acts.  While on the show, Taylor reveals the story of how she came to be Turtle's (a Native American child) mother.  A Native American attorney, Annawake, whose twin brother was taken from their tribe as a child, is watching the show and becomes concerned that Taylor has violated a tribal law by adopting Turtle without the permission of the tribe.  Motivated by the loss of her twin brother, Annawake sets out to locate Taylor to find out if she received tribal permission before adopting Turtle.  Threatened by the possibility of loosing Turtle, Taylor flees their home with Turtle in tow.<br />The makings of a good story,  were it not for the languid pace and flat language.  The novel, up to the point that I stopped reading it, is absent of any conflict that captivates.  If the second half of the book is any better than the first, I commend you for sticking it out.  If you haven't started the book yet, be warned, it's no \\"Poisonwood\\" or \\"Bean Trees\\".	2001-09-17
US	51716884	R1B1B13DXSFJKT	0452273358	772641260	Traitor to the Race	Books	1	7	16	N	N	Very few, if any, redeeming qualities in this novel	I labored through to the center of the book but could not finish. Traitor To The Race, is the story of a gay African American man (Kenneth) and his white partner (Evan). The two are engaged in a relationship that consists of sexual role-playing and fantasy. Although the couples games are injected throughout the novel, I had a hard time understanding their relevance to the greater theme. Perhaps the games had something to do with a learned power struggle between black and white men; however you couldnt derive that from the text. The rape and murder of Kenneths cousin, also gay, by white men is the catalyst for a pseudo intellectual debate among Kenneth and his close friends on the state of race relations and sexual orientation in the greater populace. Nothing particularly fresh or insightful was delivered in this debate. I found the authors writing style very difficult to embrace. The use of multiple voices lacks the transitory qualities necessary to provide cohesion when such a complicated method of storytelling is used. The language took me nowhere and the pace was at times torturous. The excessive use of colons and parentheticals were bothersome and distracting. Scott completely missed the marked on this one in my opinion. Spend your time and money elsewhere.	2001-08-28
US	51716884	R21AAU4TRZTLU5	0517162695	465442369	A Different Kind of Christmas	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Little Treasure	\\"A Different Kind of Christmas\\" is the tale of a white southern born and bred college student (Fletcher) during the mid 1800's.  Fletcher is the only son of a wealthy slave owning senator who believes a northern education is excellent preparation for his son's eventual ownership of the plantation.  After being befriended by Quaker classmates, Fletcher's education is broadened to include the abolitionist doctrines upheld by the Quakers.  As Fletcher integrates this new knowledge into his worldview, he is moved to join the Underground Rail Road system and is assigned the task of freeing slaves from his hometown in North Carolina.<br />Fletcher is joined by a slave from his hometown, Harpin' John, who is also a part of the UGRR.  Together they plan the escape of twelve slaves.  The story takes a turn when the escape plans are discovered.  Suddenly, Fletcher and Harpin' John are fleeing from sure execution at the hands of the slave patrol.<br />This little tale is filled with information on the abolitionist movement while at the same time delivers a fable like story that appeals to children and adults.  This is an excellent read for children. As an ongoing bedtime story or independent read the novel portrays an integral part of American history in an easily readable format.  This will make a nice addition to children's libraries.	2001-08-17
US	51716884	RM4QFYMZJN72W	0060194170	489274794	About the Author	Books	5	3	4	N	N	If I Could Give It 6 Stars I Would . . . .	About The Author is a riveting thriller about a wannabe writer (Cal), his roommate (Stewart) and a one night stand (Lesley).  Cal discovers a manuscript, authored by Stewart after the roommate is killed in a bike accident.  The manuscript is a biographical fictional piece on Cals life.  Cal supplied the material for the novel while he and Stewart lived together.  Cal is desperate to be published yet hes unable to set pen to paper in pursuit of his creative passion.  Feeling cheated that the novel was written using personal material he provided, Cal seeks a form of literary retribution by having Stewarts novel published under his name.  During the publication process, Cal discovers that Stewart sent a copy of the manuscript to his former girlfriend (Janet) prior to his death.  In an effort to cover up his literary thievery, Cal locates the girlfriend with the intention of convincing her that the manuscript was written by him, and stolen by Stewart.  Janet and Cal are immediately attracted to one another and eventually marry.  The novel, Almost Like Suicide becomes a national best seller and Cal is bestowed the literary fame and publicity worthy of a successful debut novelist.  Life couldnt be better for Cal until Les (ly), a former one-night stand, surfaces with evidence of Cals plagiarism.  This is indeed the material for an exceptional novel!<br />I am amazed at Calapintos ability to paint this fabulous story in the form of a novel, while at the same time provide readers and writers alike with practical instructions on the creative process and mechanics of fiction writing.  By depicting Cals thought processes when attempting to cover up his crime, Calapinto provides a view into the writers imagination when engaged in character and plot development for a novel in process.  He has successfully created believable characters and situated them in the mist of an exciting and devious story line.<br />I predict that About The Author will grace many best seller and recommended reading lists  deservedly so (and its not even on her club!).  Kudos to Calapinto for this masterpiece!  I look forward to his next publication. will grace many best seller and recommended reading lists  deservedly so (and its not even on her club!).  Kudos to Calapinto for this masterpiece!  I look forward to his next publication.	2001-08-13
US	51716884	R13XF3P1RU49KT	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	1	2	11	N	N	Nothing &quot;classic&quot; about this novel	I rebelled against my honors English reading list in high school.  As a result, I'm not well versed in the American \\"classic\\" novels.  You know, the stuff that practically everyone has read or had an assignment on at some point in their academic careers.  In an effort to familiarize myself with America's prize fiction, I obtained a list of all the past Pulitzer Prize winning novels and decided I'd slowly get up to speed on the classics.  Well, perhaps I'll have to start with the most recent novels and work my way backward (thanks for the suggestion Amanda!) because this early Pulitzer winner did not interest this reader at all.  Although a short piece, I struggled to get to the middle of the book, then just gave up.  I found neither the story nor the characters interesting.  The writing seems uninspired and remote.  After reading half the book I'd like to think that I would have developed some sense of closeness and/or fondness for the story/characters but it didn't happen.<br />If novels are a reflection of the time in which they are written, then this sterilized 1950's publication is well suited for the period.  I fail to see the literary merit in this novel.  If you can pick this book up for under two dollars (as I did) give it try.  It's not worth its retail value.	2001-08-04
US	51716884	RFO0ZFUZ3HUZ0	0375506276	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Poor Delivery	Its hard to understand how an author can create a thoroughly engaging novel one year then follow-up with a novel that comes no where close to his previous work. This is the case with Irving's latest novel, \\"The Fourth Hand\\".  His previous novel, \\"A Widow For One Year\\", is a superb novel. It's a well written, engaging story with interesting and credible characters.  \\"The Fourth Hand\\"  drags.  It's a great premise for a story but Irving has butchered the delivery.<br />The primary character (Patrick) loses his left hand in a freak accident (it's eaten by a lion).  He receives a hand transplant, acquiring the left hand of a truck driver after he accidentally kills himself.  The truck driver's wife insists on maintaining a relationship with the hand, although it's attached to someone else.  Again, great concept, poor delivery.  I stopped reading \\"The Fourth Hand\\" after 175 pages.  The novel up to that point lacks imagery.  The characters are uninteresting and flat.  The writing is non-emotive and curt.  The author injects the JFK Jr. disaster into the story in what appears to this reader as an attempt to maintain interest.  It doesn't help.  I expect a better quality of work from Irving, hopefully his next novel will deliver.	2001-07-31
US	51716884	R6G35NOSBTDWA	0967883261	625133395	The Last Days Murder List	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not bad . . .	This was my first murder mystery so my expectations may have been set too high.  I expected to be engrossed in a novel that would keep me wondering \\"who-dun-it\\" right up to the very end.  That didn't happen.  I think the author did an excellent job of depicting the mother/daughter relationship and how it fed into Maris' abusive marriage.  The chapter where the police mistakenly attack Billiemae made me laugh out loud and provided a very memorable visual.  The writing was clear, the language easy to follow.  At times, the narrative voice seemed to struggle with telling the story in standard/proper English versus a slang/Ebonics style.  In some instances, the author attempted to mix the two styles of language, resulting in awkward sentences that lacked believability.  I can appreciate the author's restraint with the use of extreme profanity and explicit language, however; given the novel's plot the absence of such colorful language dulled the story.  This is a good first novel and I'll help spread the word.	2001-07-30
US	51716884	R1UITM4OQ8VXMF	0967883261	625133395	The Last Days Murder List	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not bad . . .	This was my first murder mystery so my expectations may have been set too high.  I expected to be engrossed in a novel that would keep me wondering \\"who-dun-it\\" right up to the very end.  That didn't happen.  I think the author did an excellent job of depicting the mother/daughter relationship and how it fed into Maris' abusive marriage.  The chapter where the police mistakenly attack Billiemae made me laugh out loud and provided a very memorable visual.  The writing was clear, the language easy to follow.  At times, the narrative voice seemed to struggle with telling the story in standard/proper English versus a slang/Ebonics style.  In some instances, the author attempted to mix the two styles of language, resulting in awkward sentences that lacked believability.  I can appreciate the author's restraint with the use of extreme profanity and explicit language, however; given the novel's plot the absence of such colorful language dulled the story.  This is a good first novel and I'll help spread the word.	2001-07-30
US	51716884	R2SFZ75GBNROJ6	0385495056	15867878	Any Way the Wind Blows: A Novel	Books	3	11	12	N	N	For Entertainmnet Purposes Only	There isn't much new in Harris' latest novel &quot;Any Way The Wind Blows&quot;. Yancey and Basil return as central characters in a story that seems more like a feature from a tabloid gossip column than a piece of well crafted and creative literature. While Harris is certain to mention just about every popular African American music and movie star on the scene today, he fails to deliver any new insight with this novel. After reading his previous novels, this one seems like a collage of themes introduced in his earlier work. While I found his previous novels entertaining, just like any good gossip can be, I had a hard time, while reading this novel, getting past the feeling that I've heard this story before. The novel is filled with clich&eacute;s and didactic in tone. Both of these literary faux pas diminish the story and oversimplify the plot. At times, it seems the characters are only devices for Harris to preach his views on relationships and the role sexuality plays in them. Often times, it's hard to discern if the characters are giving the author the dialogue, or if the author is putting his words in their mouth.<br />Although deceit, trickery, and unfaithfulness can provide the makings of a good novel, the author has to creatively blend the elements to produce the type of novel that both connects with readers and has literary merit. I'm sure the novel will satisfy the need to connect with readers and will no doubt be a bestseller; but it falls short on literary merit (which doesn't mean it's not an entertaining read). I hope Yancey, Basil, Raymond, and Ava will be laid to rest with this novel. I'm looking forward to new ideas and fresh characters in Harris' future work. He's told this story too many times.	2001-07-19
US	51716884	RA06XHF82R4N8	0060927216	424818217	Paula	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Allende has done a marvelous thing!	\\"Paula\\" is a memoir of the author's life.  It began as a letter to her daughter during her battle with the debilitating disease, porphyria.  Paula slips into a coma and remains in that state for over a year. In this memoir, Allende reveals the trials of her life in Chile and her travels abroad.  She writes of the political unrest in her homeland, her role in assisting political fugitives during that time and her eventual launch into the literary career she enjoys today.  The book is filled with love of family, country and an unrelenting passion for life.  Allende's connection with the spirits of her ancestors provides a magical and mystical backdrop for a real life experience that could not be replicated by the most imaginative of writers.<br />This memoir allowed Allende to come to terms with her daughter's death and to appreciate her life more fully.  Translated in flawless English, this memoir takes the reader on a spiritual and historical journey of discovery.  Paula will remain a central figure (spirit) in the life of her family, and this story ensures that she will maintain a place in the memory of readers as well.	2001-07-15
US	51716884	R2FPI8XODGM1HX	061810450X	150294181	The Wind Done Gone: A Novel	Books	5	23	33	N	N	A first rate piece of literature!	\\"The Wind Done Gone\\" is the story of a mulatto woman from Georgia after the Civil War.  The main character, Cynara, is the half sister of Other, a character likened to the Scarlet O'Hara of \\"Gone With The Wind\\". \\"The Wind Done Gone\\" parodies Mitchell's novel in the truest sense, despite all the legal maneuvering by the Margaret Mitchell estate to keep it from being published.  It mimics the characters and premise of \\"Gone With The Wind\\" in a manner that is both cleaver and creative.<br />The slave-master relationship depicted in Mitchell's work is sharply ridiculed by Randall throughout her novel.  On the surface, Mitchell's account shows a family in full command of riches, power, land and slaves.  In Randall's portrayal, it is the slaves who truly maintain control of the family's destiny.  From the marriage of the family's parental units, to the design of the house they will live in, to the day to day management of the estate, Mammy and Garlic remained in subtle yet assured control.  Keepers of secrets and masters of manipulation, they created and secured a present and future (\\"What would we a done with a sober white man on the place?\\") that ensured safety and shelter in an atrociously oppressive environment.<br />Randall's greatest stab at \\"Gone With The Wind\\" is the revelation that the mother's side of the family is of African slave ancestry.  With all of their assumed notions of racial superiority, beneath the surface is a family passing as white to escape the plight of a being black.  I find great solace in the daily agony such denial must have caused to the slavers.<br />\\"The Wind Done Gone\\" has earned its place among the great literature of this country.  Anyone who has read \\"Gone With The Wind\\" (or has seen the movie) owes it to him/herself to know another side of story.  The first person narrative approach (by way of the main character's diary) allows Randall to fully explore the thought processes and conflicts of the character.  Writing in the voice of a slave deprived of an early education, who later cannot quench her thirst for it, must have posed challenges for the author.  But she overcame them.  The exhilaration of being exposed to new things and the confusion of trying to integrate those new experiences (so vastly contrary to the old ones) into her life, are communicated to the reader with exacting language that is true to both the characters and the time.<br />Amidst the poetic writing is the backdrop of a conflicted romance between Cynara and R, the ex-husband of Other, who purchases Cynara off the auction block and later marries her.  Throughout their relationship, Cynara is torn between two loves.  A love she feels owed to R for \\"rescuing\\" her from a life of toil (only to imprison her to a life of domestic servitude) and the love that is awakened in her upon meeting a black Congressman during a visit to the nation's capital city.<br />\\"Gone With The Wind\\" has enjoyed classic status in the absence of \\"The Wind Done Gone\\".  \\"The Wind Done Gone\\" has most certainly earn the merits of a classic (whether formally acknowledged by the literary establishment or not).  Now, I can't imagine either being fully appreciated without the other.  Kudos to Randall for telling this story and a nod to American jurisprudence for allowing us to read it.a slave deprived of an early education, who later cannot quench her thirst for it, must have posed challenges for the author.  But she overcame them.  The exhilaration of being exposed to new things and the confusion of trying to integrate those new experiences (so vastly contrary to the old ones) into her life, are communicated to the reader with exacting language that is true to both the characters and the time.  <br />Amidst the poetic writing is the backdrop of a conflicted romance between Cynara and R, the ex-husband of Other, who purchases Cynara off the auction block and later marries her.  Throughout their relationship, Cynara is torn between two loves.  A love she feels owed to R for \\"rescuing\\" her from a life of toil (only to imprison her to a life of domestic servitude) and the love that is awakened in her upon meeting a black Congressman during a visit to the nation's capital city. <br />\\"Gone With The Wind\\" has enjoyed classic status in the absence of \\"The Wind Done Gone\\".  \\"The Wind Done Gone\\" has most certainly earn the merits of a classic (whether formally acknowledged by the literary establishment or not).  Now, I can't imagine either being fully appreciated without the other.  Kudos to Randall for telling this story and a nod to American jurisprudence for allowing us to read it.	2001-07-01
US	51716884	R1LGEF3HF9C9QW	0061097314	842706595	The Bean Trees: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Excellent!	The Bean Trees is a superbly crafted story of a young woman raised in a small Kentucky town.  Upon finishing high school, Taylor sets out on a cross-country journey that lands her in Arizona.  In route, she stops at a bar and encounters a woman who abandons her daughter on the seat of Taylor's car.  Once in Arizona, Taylor is befriended by a woman who owns a tire repair shop that doubles as a safe haven for persecuted refugees.  As Taylor searches out a life for herself and newly acquired daughter, she meets a host of people who serve as mentor, family and friend.  She also begins to see the world from a perspective beyond that provided in small-town Kentucky.  Through this lens, Taylor is able to see that people are connected by common experiences - different magnitudes, but common none the less - and that this commonality is the glue that keeps us connected.<br />Kingsolver has created a set of characters that give life and credibility to the novel.  Her story telling ability is as creative as her writing.  A master of the metaphor and a skilled technician with language, Kingsolver has written a coming-of-age story that differentiates itself with a focused critique of human rights violations and Immigration policy.  A mature novel filled with wisdom and compassion; nature and nurture.  After reading The Poisonwood Bible, I didn't think that any of her other work would measure up.  The Bean Trees did.  Enjoy!	2001-06-20
US	51716884	R1WEA270DZIS69	0786868619	719432164	Stolen Lives: Twenty Years in a Desert Jail (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	30	39	N	N	Incredible Strength	An incredible story of the human spirit and its ability to withstand tremendous adversity.  Stolen Lives is a nonfiction account of a Moroccan family imprisoned for twenty years after a failed royal coupe orchestrated by the father.  The Oufkirs, once prominent members of the Moroccan government and royal court, were banished by the King to a desert prison after he had their father executed.  While imprisoned, the family endured horrendous mental, emotional and physical abuse.  After fifteen years of desert isolation, the family masterminded the greatest coupe of all when they escaped their captor's jail by digging a tunnel using the most rudimentary of tools (hands, spoon, sardine lid).  The chapter detailing the escape was the most well written section of the book.  Suspenseful and engaging, the escape read like a superbly crafted fictional piece.  Unfortunately the action was real, the characters flesh and bone, their suffering authentic.<br />Stolen Lives is a testament to the vitality of the human spirit, and the grace of a loving God.  It speaks to the love of family and friends and its ability to sustain us at our lowest points.  I was overwhelmed by the loyalty expressed by Achoura and Halima.  The Oufkirs were forced into exile by the King, Achoura and Halima chose exile in support the family they loved.  That's a choice not many would make.  I applaud and honor them for their commitment.  This story is one that will join many others in the annals of human rights violations.  It adds to the collective suffering of the world and should serve as a reminder that injustice anywhere is indeed a threat to justice everywhere.  That power in malevolent hands spawns corruption.  Hurrah! Hurrah! to the Oufkirs!  May your courage and strength be contagious.	2001-06-05
US	51716884	R27FYHGDPV2BHO	0684854759	775641003	Floating in My Mother's Palm	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Well Written, Well Told	There are two things that must come together to form an excellent novel - a good story and the ability to find the words to tell it.  Hegi is a master storyteller and gifted in her use of language to convey strong characters in memorable settings.  Floating in My Mother's Palm is a first person account of the childhood of its main character, Hanna.  As Hanna recounts aspects of her life that shaped her character and perspective, she introduces you to other characters in the town of Burgdorf and provides a view into their lives that make the town and its people real in every aspect.  Each character is reminiscent of someone I've known from my own life.  Its remarkable how the lives of characters from a small town in Germany can be so similar to those in Anytown, USA. The situations may be different but the issues are the same.  Many of the characters in the novel appear in other work by Hegi, making the body of her work an intimate experience, leaving the reader feeling like they are getting closer and closer to each character with each novel read.  Hegi's writing has never disappointed me.	2001-05-30
US	51716884	R1RUYUBYJ2ZTBO	0684854759	775641003	Floating in My Mother's Palm	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Well Written, Well Told  .. .	There are two things that must come together to form an excellent novel - a good story and the ability to find the words to tell it.  Hegi is a master storyteller and gifted in her use of language to convey strong characters in memorable settings.  Floating in My Mother's Palm is a first person account of the childhood of its main character, Hanna.  As Hanna recounts aspects of her life that shaped her character and perspective, she introduces you to other characters in the town of Burgdorf and provides a view into their lives that make the town and its people real in every aspect.  Each character is reminiscent of someone I've known from my own life.  Its remarkable how the lives of characters from a small town in Germany can be so similar to those in Anytown, USA. The situations may be different but the issues are the same.  Many of the characters in the novel appear in other work by Hegi, making the body of her work an intimate experience, leaving the reader feeling like they are getting closer and closer to each character with each novel read.  Hegi's writing has never disappointed me.	2001-05-23
US	51716884	R1BOSH8QTZBZ9B	0375405097	893716525	Trumpet: A Novel	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Great concept, solid writing, poor delivery	It seems to have taken me forever to finish this book.  I couldn't seem to figure out why it dragged.  The writing was clear, crisp, at times even on the verge of excellence, so why the struggle with finishing the 278 pages of the novel?  Because the story reads like multiple books, all unfinished.  No sooner than I'd start to get engaged in the story, it would shift focus, employing new characters and new devices - first person, third person, dream sequence - to expose the story of its main (or at least most talked about) character, Joss Moody.<br />Kay would have better served this reader by choosing a voice and telling the story through it.  Although the writer's literary tool box is full of helpful gadgets to aide in the telling of stories, it need not be necessary to use them all when writing your book.  Kay succeeds in creating a jagged rendering of Joss Moody's story - that of a famous trumpet player upon whose death is discovered to have been a woman. Joss lived his life as a man, married, adopted a son, excelled at his passion, and died.  Coleman, Joss's son, is devastated by the discovery of his father's secret and becomes pry to Sophie, a writer who is looking forward to a substantial financial windfall from the publication of Moody's story.  Dispersed throughout the book are various renderings and reflections on the life and experiences with Joss Moody - the man.  Kay jumps from each version or perspective using everything but grace, leaving a series of untold stories, each of which could form the basis of its own novel.  Great concept, solid writing, poor delivery.	2001-05-09
US	51716884	R3NYEU5SU48SOT	1558743669	817918233	A Child Called It: One Child's Courage to Survive	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Unimaginably True	It's hard to say that this is a \\"good\\" read.  Pelzer's childhood is filled with the most cruel and bizarre abuse you could ever imagine.  What is good about this book is that it informs its readership of the horrors inherent in child abuse and demonstrates the incredible inner strength of the author.  I have many questions (Was Mother ever arrested?) that will hopefully be answered in the sequels to this account.  A Child Called \\"It\\" deserves your reading time.  I will warn you that it's a hard read given the torture Pelzer was subjected to, but go ahead and feel the anger, the pain, and the dismay.  Gather it all up and turn it into something positive and supportive of children.	2001-04-26
US	51716884	R3H7CGJUGTNMNU	068481224X	595303055	Dreamer	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Finding the words to say it . . . .	Dreamer is a fictional account that examines Dr. Martin Luther King's life during the civil rights movement.  Johnson employs a King look-a-like character who, although has a strikingly similar physical appearance to King, is his antithesis in every other aspect.  This allows Johnson to create a complete King like character that has faults and foibles that place him in the realm of humanness that is often times lost in our tendency to elevate King (deservedly so) to godlike status.  This is a solid concept for a fictional piece but Johnson falls short in the most basic way - choice and use of language - to deliver on this concept.<br />Johnson's choice of words throughout the first half of the novel created more distance than clarity.  Don't get me wrong, I'm all for expanding the vocabulary, but in fictional literature the words chosen must create a rhythm, a flow that maintains the reader's interest and does not distract from the meat of the novel.  In Dreamer, the author's choice of \\"big words\\" seems forced and awkward.  \\"He felt too tired to move, but his mind, from surface to seabed, kept whirring widdershins.\\"  This is only one example of Johnson, poor choice of words.  There are plenty more in the novel.  Enough to cause me to close the book and move on to a little lighter reading, like the Oxford Unabridged dictionary.	2001-04-25
US	51716884	R3G8862T9R2M96	0142000205	497257633	Icy Sparks (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	It Crept Up On Me . . .	This started off as just an o.k. read.  I thought the story line, a coming of age account of a girl with Tourette syndrome, offered great potential.  I was excited to start the novel, but I couldn't seem to get immersed in the story.  The writing is quite clear, with excellent dialogue and memorable characters.  However, I didn't feel that I was learning anything more about the specifics of Tourettes.  Icy's trials seemed no greater than anyone who doesn't fit within the confines of what our culture deems normal.  Then came the light bulb moment.  Perhaps that's exactly the point Rubio is trying to make, that it matters not what our differences are, we deserve to be accepted for them, included with them.  Rubio further demonstrates that with the love of family, friends and God - from whatever pulpit you choose to worship him - it is possible to embrace one's own differences and thrive with them.  I guess on some level I've always known this and I'm grateful to Icy Sparks for providing a gentle reminder.  So what started off as an o.k. read, turned into a quiet gem of a novel that requires a reading with an open heart and a compassion for otherness.  A very worthwhile novel . .  . enjoy it.	2001-04-12
US	51716884	R2XNXBRR5NCKNW	0679427430	758251476	Wouldn't Take Nothing for My Journey Now	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Short and sweet.	Wouldn't Take Nothing For My Journey Now is a collection of Angelou's thoughts on and experiences with life.  The book covers a wide range of situations that many people will encounter on their journey to everlasting.  Angelou handles these situations with grace and imparts to her readership the universal lessons she's come to know as truth.  A very quick and satisfying read.	2001-03-24
US	51716884	R18FKQDBTWYL37	0375701893	804977319	Tell Me How Long the Train's Been Gone	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Surprisingly Disappointed	I am a firm believer that any writer worthy of the ink expended in the pursuit of his creative genius should be able to hook a reader into his story within the first one hundred pages of the novel.  I'm disappointed to say that this novel by Baldwin falls far short of my expectations of good writing and specifically my expectations of him.  In most novels, the author uses the story as a means to make a point. Throughout the first hundred pages of this novel I couldn't help but feel that Baldwin was writing, instead, to prove a point. This would be understandable had the novel been written during the early years of Baldwin's career.  During that period publishers showed little interest in the talents of Black writers.  Relegating their work as inferior in comparison to that of white authors.  However, this novel was published well into Baldwin's career, yet it appears to me that Baldwin is writing more so to prove his ability to write, than to tell a compelling story.  The novel's pace is labored with the use of excessive language, creating complex sentence structures that distract from the rhythm of the story.  The characters (at least those introduced in the first hundred pages of the book) are lifeless, uninteresting.  If a writer can not establish a relationship with the reader through his characters within the first hundred pages why should the reader invest any more of his time?<br />My experience with some of Baldwin's previous works, specifically, Giovanni's Room and The Fire Next Time, was phenomenal. Although Tell Me How Long The Train's Been Gone falls short of my expectations, my overall experience of Baldwin's work thus far leaves no doubt that in my mind that he was an exceptional writer, worthy of all the acclaim bestowed him. For this reason, I'll continue to read his work, fiction and non-fiction, knowing that with all his greatness, he too like the rest of us, experienced times when he was not at his best.	2001-03-22
US	51716884	R2HSS69Q40OM1U	0688152449	892493747	Midnight Champagne	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent Novel!	Midnight Champagne is a masterfully written novel.  Its plot unfolds during the wedding of April and Caleb, two of the story's primary characters.  Ansay uses the wedding activities as the setting to spin subplots related to spousal abuse, divorce and marital apathy.  On the surface this may sound like a very formulaic story line but the extraordinary writing of Ansay renders an explosive novel that is both suspenseful and humorous.  As the novel explores the malcontent that lies beneath the facade of strong and loving relationships, it simultaneously takes on the characteristics of a murder mystery engaging the reader with elements of the supernatural and superstitious.<br />Ansay has earned a place on this reviewers top ten list.  She consistently delivers fiction that is penned in clear, concise prose with a steady and unrelenting pace. You can expect nothing but good work from this author.  She won't let you down.	2001-03-19
US	51716884	R2UJZHG1WSWJN	1566890802	471633513	Clifford's Blues	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Another Perspective on the Holocaust	Clifford's Blues is the story of an African American gay musician who is imprisoned in the labor camps of Germany during Hitler's reign.  Clifford's story is revealed through his diary, which provides a powerful first person account of the atrocities and horrors of the prison camps.  Although we are all familiar with the horrific experience of Jews in Nazi Germany, we sometimes fail to realize that many others (Africans, Gays, mulattos, Americans other German citizens) also suffered under the oppressive thumb of Hitler.  Williams does an exemplary job of weaving the essence of music - Jazz and Blues - through the story.  This blending of the arts demonstrates how through music one can find and celebrate life, no matter how dismal that life may be.  For the more astute music connoisseur, I'm sure the songs and artists mentioned in the novel will add additional depth to the reading experience.<br />I would have liked to know how Cliff's life unfolds after his internment.  Perhaps a follow-up novel is in order where the author compares Cliff's Nazi imprisonment with his experience as an African American gay man upon his return to America.  If you are looking for another perspective on the Holocaust this book is definitely a good place to start.  Clifford's Blues is both well written and researched.  It's as much educational as it is entertaining.  Well worth the time spent.	2001-03-13
US	51716884	R38H2WSWFPDGJK	0399146431	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Ancient Chinese Secrets	An extraordinary tale of three generations of Chinese women and how their life stories fuse.  Ruth, first generation Chinese-American, learns of her mother's (LuLing) and grandmother's (Precious Auntie) past through a written memoir authored by her mother.  The memoir is LuLing's attempt to capture what she knows to be true from a childhood of secrets and superstitions handed down by Precious Auntie.  Tan uses the onset of Alzheimer's and the ghost of Precious Auntie as the vehicles through which LuLing reconnects to the reality of her past. Ruth's relationship with her live-in lover set the stage for the discovery of how her family's past usurps the sense of happiness and belonging in her relationship.<br />Through these characters, the reader learns the role that love, loyalty, and sacrifice play in the cultural traditions of the Chinese.  The story is told through the first person perspective of each woman and third person narration is used to pull it all together.  Tan's writing is authentic in tone and true to culture.  You'll be hard pressed to find more beautiful writing in American contemporary fiction.  The Bonesetter's Daughter is an excellent read, imparting wisdom that will reside within the reader for a lifetime.	2001-03-04
US	51716884	R1TYC6Z67U3LPI	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	8	9	N	N	What a powerful story of human integrity!	To Kill A Mockingbird is set in a small town in Alabama during the early 1930s.  The main plot centers around the trial of Tom Robinson, a black man falsely accused of the rape of a white girl.  It is within this context that Atticus, the town's gentleman and defense attorney, teaches his children humanity and truth.  The story is narrated by an adult Jean Louise (Scout), recalling the events of her childhood leading up to and after the trial. Tom is convicted and sentenced to death - not surprising given the era, any other outcome of the trial would have rendered this novel trite and significantly diminished its value.  The trial is without a doubt among the most well written scenes I've ever experienced in American fiction.  Tom's accuser represents the complete antithesis of honor, respect, and decency.  I applaud Lee for delivering biblical comeuppance to the accuser in a swiftly paced yet suspenseful narrative that made me anxious to get to the next sentence.<br />Lee introduces the right characters in the right setting with exacting language to support the theme of the novel.  This is perhaps the nations' most well written lesson on the personal depravation caused by racial hatred and the spiritual enlightenment encountered when one stands defiant in the face of it.  And what better way to demonstrate this moral message than through the eyes of children who know nothing but truth, until told otherwise.  Lee would be hard pressed to top this novel, perhaps that's why she hasn't tried.  This is a novel that children should grow up with, its bound to produce better adults.  Most certainly worthy of the Pulitzer and deserving of it's place in the history of American fiction.	2001-02-16
US	51716884	R3FFUKHH08KA6F	0375707328	8011808	Toni Morrison Explained: A Reader's Road Map to the Novels	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Well Thought and Explained .  .	This is definitely my recommendation for a \\"one-stop\\" analysis of Morrison's fiction. I do not agree with all of David's opinions - we all have them.  However, like an archeologist excavating a buried treasure, he meticulously unravels the meaning behind the language, the naming of the characters, the technique behind the delivery.  He further demonstrates how Morrison makes use of biblical doctrine, musical structure and myth in her work.  The analysis of Paradise is by far the most intelligent, well-written critique I've read to date.  Toni Morrison Explained provides a range of possible interpretations for the reader to ponder and ultimately integrate with our own experience of the Nobel novelist writings.  Kudos to David for doing the work required to experience Morrison's fiction on a whole `nother level.	2001-02-06
US	51716884	R9YVYYQK4EAPV	0670896764	838594392	A Day Late and a Dollar Short	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Read!	A Day Late and a Dollar Short takes an intimate look at the lives of the members of the Price family.  The perfect and controlling sister is despised by the middle sister for her perceived perfection while baby sister seems lost in an ever gushing river of self doubt and the brother tries to find his salvation at the bottom of a liquor bottle.  Mom and Dad separate after over 30 years of marriage, Dad finds a lesser love but greater peace in the folds of a younger woman, while Mom endeavors to experience the finer things in life before its too late.  McMillian excels at creating familiar and realistic characters struggling with recognizable familial issues (at times I thought a couple of the characters were relatives of mine!).  The novel is funny and sad, edifying and healing.  The Price family puts the FUN is dysFUNctional and McMillian tells their story with the skill of well-trained raconteur.	2001-02-02
US	51716884	RG9QRDVG1H6BV	0312243022	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Time Well Spent	This is one of the most well written novels I've read to date.  The Hours examines the pathos of three women through a stream of conscious narrative rendering of their lives and the various relationships within it.  Although separated by time and space, the characters are connected via common uncertainties about life, relationships and their role in them.  This novel literally transcends time and space, merging circumstances (both fictional and biographical) introduced in 1941 London, with fictional characters set in 1949 Los Angles, with relevant current day social situations set in New York City.  This is no small task for Cunningham but he does a superb job of keeping the novel on track and not losing the reader in an overly complex and interwoven plot (everything comes together perfectly in end).  The novel motivated me to do a little reading on Virginia Woolf as I am not very familiar with her life/work.  Although not necessary for the enjoyment of this novel, the research on Woolf did provide this reader with a broader understanding of the context within which Cunningham operated, and a greater appreciation for his writing abilities.  Definitely award winning material.	2001-01-19
US	51716884	R2QXQ1QMQF7RNB	0671657860	882252700	Many Lives, Many Masters: The True Story of a Prominent Psychiatrist, His Young Patient, and the Past-Life Therapy That Changed Both Their Lives	Books	4	28	34	N	N	You've got to believe in something . . .	The ideas and \\"truths\\" revealed in Many Lives, Many Masters seem as plausible to this reader as anything I've ever read in the Bible.  In fact, much of the information revealed by the Masters is quite comparable to the laws most religious doctrine set forth, - do not kill, love your fellow man, do unto others, vengeance shall be mine - etc.  This book provides a refreshing perspective on the notion that life is everlasting.  Some may feel that Weiss, as a trained medical professional, lends an additional layer of creditability to the concept of reincarnation; but science is rarely able to explain the spiritual.  You either believe or you don't. This was great read.  Informative, enlightening and, depending on where you are on the journey when you read it, comforting.	2001-01-17
US	51716884	RLUGG0SNUA7X9	0380729768	507436358	Sister	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Family Matters . . .	Very well written account of a rural Wisconsin family's struggle to free itself from the control of an inept father and a blind faith in catholic doctrine.  The novel is told through the recollection of the sole surviving child, Abigail.  The most telling aspect of Abigail's life is revealed through the relationship of her father with the rest of the family.  The more he attempts to control the will of family members the more they withdraw.  The mother rebels by taking on a job in defiance of her husband and her mother.  She finds refuge and a sense of self-worth not defined by her \\"duties\\" as a wife or her role as a mother.  Abigail withdraws into the comfort of music and the church, only to eventually question the sustainability of both.  The son turns to drugs and alcohol as an escape from the agony of not being able to live up to his father's notions of strength and masculinity (how paradoxical that the \\"last man standing\\" in the family are actually the women).  This novel is complete with excellent writing, a strong, viable story line and extraordinary characters (Ansay was even able to elicit from this reader a bit of compassion for the father).  Ansay's use of language is precise and at times quite poetic.  The novel underscores the truth that family shapes the offspring and that faith is larger than a church.	2000-12-17
US	51716884	R3RVPTZMB5IZFY	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	The truth . . . as only the dying can tell it . . .	A refreshing, enlightening experience!  During those Tuesday visits with Morrie, Mitch Albom becomes the beneficiary of a wealth of wisdom shared by his former sociology professor and life long friend.  From his deathbed, Morrie is able to reflect on his life's experiences with a clarity that only death can provide.  Morries' truths are revealed with such simplicity and sincerity that it's hard to believe we've forgotten them.  This story serves as a reminder to us all of the really important things in life.  Intellectually we understand that the material things of life will not sustain us; however so many of us find ourselves struggling through the daily quagmire of a culture that places too much emphasis on acquiring things, instead of inspiring people.  Morrie teaches us that love is truly the greatest inspiration.  Give it, receive it, but most importantly pass it on.  I am forever thankful to Morrie for passing on the truth and am grateful for an eternity to Mich Albom for recording it.	2000-12-12
US	51716884	R1DVXGJBK4UAJX	0156528207	781565906	The Little Prince	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Good things come in small packages  . . .	Far be it for this adult to attempt to explain this exquisite little treasure.  Although the interpretation from French to English seemed a little shaky at times, I'm sure each reader will discover the little truths, and major messages The Little Prince reveals.  A short read that will resonate within you for a lifetime . . .  if you're lucky.	2000-12-06
US	51716884	RM159LYD7A083	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	5	31	34	N	N	Superb Read!	House of Sand and Fog is a pulsating examination of the struggle of its main characters to maintain ownership of a house that represents their last hope for security and status.  Dubus does a superb job with character analysis and development.  The primary characters seem to switch protagonist to antagonist roles with an ease and creativity indicative of a very well trained writer.  The story centers on the ownership of a house that represents the dream of a return to status and wealth for Colonel Behrani and his immigrant family from Iran.  The same house represents the last chance for security and stability for Kathy Nicolo, a recovering substance abuser and abandoned wife.  Having inherited the house from her deceased father, Kathy finds herself evicted due to an error in tax assessment made by the county tax department and a lack of follow-up on her part to ensure that the error is rectified.  The house is then auctioned and purchased by the former Colonel Behrani who plans to resale the house at a handsome profit.  He plans to use the proceeds from the sale of the house to start a real-estate business which he hopes will eventually finance his son's college education and return his family to the status and wealth they enjoyed during his service under the dictatorial regime of the Shah of Iran.<br />The story is told through the voice of Behrani, Kahty and the deputy sheriff (a supporting yet very strong character) who evicts then falls in love with her.  Dubus flawlessly changes voice from first person to narrative, a writing technique difficult to pull off without the author leaving the impression of having gotten stuck in literary quagmire.  His writing is crisp, language authentic, pace and tone perfect.  A very engaging read filled with love, power, pride, and tragedy.  Kudos to Dubus for his efforts.	2000-12-04
US	51716884	R2Z7WHG4SEL241	0679455876	292491576	The Way Forward Is with a Broken Heart	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Onward and Upward	A great collection of short stories.  Some more enjoyable than others but all collectively express the challenges of love, loss, race, identity  - life.  Forever passionate, Walker's writing uncovers the emotional nerves beneath the actual experiences that shape our lives.  Through it all - the ups and downs, the pain and suffering, emerges a powerful writer who continues to discover the secretes of joy and makes every effort to pass them on.  &quot;The Way Forward Is With A Broken Heart&quot;, is well worth the time you'll spend with it and yourself.	2000-11-15
US	51716884	RC23BDLLFH45V	038550117X	133960389	Disobedience: A Novel	Books	2	4	4	N	N	I'll try it again later . . . .	I tried very hard to finish this book but couldn't stop asking myself  \\"who cares?\\" with each page I turned.  After one hundred-fifty pages of labored reading, I gave up.  This novel simply failed to engage me on any level, (save for the familiarity Chicago's Lincoln Park neighborhood provides) although the story line has great potential.  Elvira is by far the most interesting of the characters but the story doesn't center on her and her minor role was not enough to keep me reading.  I recommended this book to a friend as a joint reading experience and she disliked the novel equally.  I'm surprised and dismayed at yet another boring novel by Hamilton.  Between Disobedience and Map of the World (bad book, equally bad movie), I'm afraid that one of my all time favorite authors has started to produce mediocre novels that will sell based on the author's name recognition alone.  Perhaps after being blessed by Oprah twice, the author feels she doesn't need to focus on the story as much as the publicity to sell it.<br />The Book of Ruth and The Short History of a Prince are by far Hamilton's best work in my opinion.  For a better view of this author's talents, I'd highly recommend reading both.	2000-11-07
US	51716884	RPHUPSWG4F9L4	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Informative, witty and fun	On Writing is one of the most helpful books I've read on the subject to date.  It covers a wide range of writing components in sufficient detail without boring or overwhelming the potential writer.  King does an excellent job of demonstrating how his life experience influences his writing style and motivation.  I was surprised to lean of the number of movies I've enjoyed that are based on his novels.  Although he's not an author whose work I've read in the past, I have all intentions of catching up on some of his earlier novels and look forward to his future work. On Writing is an excellent addition to the writer's toolbox.	2000-10-26
US	51716884	R2LAZHS89NTNRA	0679443746	251642252	An Unquiet Mind: A Memoir of Moods and Madness	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Very Informative	\\"I can only imagine how that must feel\\"  - an all too often expressed sentiment that attempts to demonstrate one persons empathy to another's circumstance.  After reading An Unquiet Mind, and from it gaining greater knowledge of manic-depressive illness, I have no doubt that there are some things that one simply can not imagine without having experienced.  However, as Jamison points out, this does not preclude one from being empathic, supportive and loving of those diagnosed with the illness.<br />An Unquiet Mind reveals the author's struggle with bipolar disorder from onset, through full manifestation, to treatment and finally latency.  Through it all, Jamison demonstrates that love and grace are fully sustaining that through diagnosis and treatment (for the brain and the mind) one can live a productive and fulfilling life.  This provides great hope and encouragement to those of us whose lives, through either first or second hand experience, have been effected by manic-depressive illness.  Passionately written, informative and candid.  An Unquiet Mind is mandatory reading for those looking to be more informed on the topic of bipolar disorder.	2000-10-16
US	51716884	R3MG0TLUR0P019	0679460268	83055222	The Dancing Mind	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very well said	The auto cassette of this wonderfully poetic acceptance speech was given to me as a gift and ranks among my all time favorites. In her acceptance of the National Book Foundation's Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters, Morrison elaborates on the reader-writer relationship, symbolized in terms of a dance of open minds.  She expounds on the importance of an education that allows for and encourages students to (through literature) dance in the company of their own mind.  The Nobel Laureate then shares a personal encounter with a fellow female writer from Strasbourg whose country rewards creative and nonrestrictive writing with persecution and imprisonment; the effect of which on the writing soul is indistinguishable from literally being shot down on the street.  Morrison wraps up her speech with a personal account of what it means for her to write, to engage in a dance with her mind and the mind of her reader.  This speech, like everything she writes, is both captivating and enlightening.  The knowledge given is as powerful and elegant as the delivery.  Whether you listen to it or read it, this speech is worth knowing.  Enjoy.	2000-10-14
US	51716884	R2D2N8Z486ERIO	0674673778	155326162	Playing in the Dark : Whiteness and the Literary Imagination	Books	5	46	49	N	N	Eye Opening	Playing in the Dark is without a doubt, the most informative critique of the use of the African American presence in American literature.  Morrison critiques the work of some of the most famous American novelist and points out how their work is influenced by blackness.  Her critique is sharp and forthright.  She challenges writers and critics alike to reevaluate their use of language, coding, and imagery as it relates to characters or situations of an \\"Africanist\\" nature.  The critique identifies specific instances where negative imagery and characterizations are used by writers to help solidify whatever point being made, or image being created.  Playing in the Dark should be required reading for any literature curriculum and any critic or writer who dare place pen to paper in an effort to inform or enlighten the reading public.	2000-10-11
US	51716884	R14TH0VV59LGXL	0679781382	999618850	Asylum	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Read	A very well written pseudo psychoanalysis of the dynamics of obsessive love.  Asylum explores the pathos of obsession by way of a female character (Stella) that falls in love with a patient in the mental institution where her husband is positioned to become the next superintendent.  McGrath does an excellent job of exploring the \\"at all cost\\" behavior of the obsessed.  From a lifeless marriage to a life-threatening affair, Stella ends up without love, passion or security.  The destruction of her life slowly unfolds, leaving the reader guessing what will happen next and exactly how far she will take an affair that most sane people would have realized as dangerous, partially fulfilling, at best, and extremely short-term.<br />Asylum is a real treat for readers who are really into character analysis.  McGrath places the reader in the mind of the characters as the novel unfolds.  The prose is fluid, the story informative, and the experience memorable.  This reader was quite impressed with McGrath's work and looks forward to future novels.	2000-10-11
US	51716884	R1M5T4ORIIKUCG	0385333927	951729133	Pagan Babies	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Sound Familiar?	An all right read.  Fast and easy but not as entertaining as some of Leonard's earlier work.  In Pagan Babies, Leonard tells the story of a criminal priest and his dealings with the mob element of Detroit.  From Africa to Detroit, the priest conjures up scheme after scheme, only to have them get tripped up by the mob element he's gotten in bed with.  Leonard could have written this one in his sleep as the plot twists were predictable, uncreative and out right dull.  The characters could have been lifted from any of his previous novels and at times it seems they were. Perhaps a movie version (and this reads like a screenplay) of this novel would make a better showing.	2000-09-24
US	51716884	R2K0JXFWERMO7	0316777722	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Funny	I read this book based on the recommendation of a friend and enjoyed it  tremendously.  What an admirable trait it is to be able to laugh at one's  self.  Sedaris even managed to shed some worldly insight with this  autobiographical piece.  Very well written and funny.  I particularly  enjoyed his experience with the Americans and the train ride in Paris. I  had a similar experience and reading about it was brought back great  memories and laughter.  This is my first read by Sedaris but I'm sure it  won't be the last.  Relax and enjoy it.	2000-09-19
US	51716884	R2LW3YOG94FC0A	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent!	A very well done novel!  Both engaging and informative.  Kingsolver takes  the reader on a journey into the Congo of old via a missionary family whose  patriarch is determined to bring Christianity to a people whose belief  system expands beyond the confines of that doctrine.  His determination to  deliver the word of the bible to the people of the Congo results in the  total destruction of his family.  The novel is revealed through the voice  each family member.  The characters' evolution is dynamic, realistic and  certainly indicative of the skills of a talented writer.  Kingsolver  intertwines political, cultural, biblical, and historical information in a  manner that educates as wells as enlightens.  She deserves kudos for  challenging the universal applicability of Christianity and examining the  virtues of belief systems that sustains its people however non-Christian  the beliefs may be.  The Poisonwood Bible contains powerful symbolism  delivered in prose that is both concise and colorfully descriptive.  An  excellent novel that deserves all the exposure it can get.  Enjoy!	2000-09-09
US	51716884	R3EVHL6HM11Q3Q	0671520954	349896730	Hiding My Candy: The Autobiography of the Grand Empress of Savannah	Books	4	22	25	N	N	Enjoyed it!	I was initially introduced to The Lady in the book Midnight in the Garden  of Good and Evil.  I ran across this autobiography at a thrift sale and  started casually reading the first few pages.  Well I was hook and  finished the novel in one sitting (it's a short read).  The Lady's life  story is interesting, informative and funny.  She is quite the character  living her real-life drama of struggle with flair and determination.  Sassy  and quick witted, the Lady tells her story with charm, humor and truth.  A  nice quick read.	2000-09-09
US	51716884	R21AYI7Q437MDV	0375703829	22806037	Silk	Books	2	6	14	N	N	Whatever?	A friend who thought Silk was a great read passed this novella to me.  Needless to day I differ.  Like most books that are translated from another  language to English, there seems to be something huge missing in the  translation.  Silk is a fable like tale of a Frenchman who travels to Japan  in the mid-1800 to secure silkworms to support the silk business of his  town.  On his trip, he meets a woman who he never touches or speaks to but  for whom he develops a strong love and obsession.  While this story line  carries great potential to a writer able to expound on the possibilities of  this type of &quot;love affair&quot;, the characters in novel wasn't quite  able to deliver the emotions, thoughts or actions that support the plot.  I  can only assume that it couldn't be effectively translated from Italian to  English.  And what was the deal with Helene's last minute embrace and tears  for Baldabiou during his departure?  This scene appeared to be added as if  to entice the reader to believing that there is perhaps some emotional tie  between the two that was intended by the author, but never given to the  reader.  A story with good intentions but bad delivery (or translation).  Good thing this was quick read so it wasn't a total waste of time.	2000-09-09
US	51716884	R3GP2ONFNXZWS	0375501525	822831020	By the Light of My Father's Smile: A Novel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Absolutely Captivating!	By The Light of My Father's Smile explores the past, present, and future connection of the female characters in the novel to their father.  Walker  uses a multi-voiced approach in revealing the complexities of relationships  both parental and romantic.  The characters' speak from both life and  deaths experiences revealing to the reader that issues not resolved in life  must certainly be reconciled in death.  Walker delivers insight and wisdom  through the use of folklore, and the spiritual philosophy of an ancient  Mexican/African tribe.  She is able to demonstrate with clarity how male  oppression of women, specifically a father's oppression of his daughter,  effects a woman emotionally, sexually, and spiritually.  A definite must  read for the masses.	2000-08-16
US	51716884	R1HL808LX6WLIW	0452282195	331831848	The Bluest Eye (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Beautiful	If beauty is skin deep then you'd have to love the skin you're in to fully  appreciate it.  And how do we learn to love our, skin . . .by having its  beauty validated by our families, friends, community, and society at large.  Is there any question why Pecola's quest for the bluest eyes (what she  believed to be the ultimate measure of beauty) became so totally consuming,  to the point that the child drove herself mad?  In The Bluest Eye, Morrison  points out that beauty is as beauty does.  She challenges her readership to  re-evaluate our own notions of beauty. I have known for some time that this  country's standard of beauty (the physical at least) is absent of anything  reflective of an African presence.  Morrison has validated that knowledge  and through this novel, shares it with the world.<br />Like all of  Morrison's work, The Bluest Eye uses music, spirituality, and familiar  language (from an African-American perspective) to deliver a powerful  message about the African-American experience.  The fact that the novel is  had for some readers to digest is indicative of the truth that it reveals  for truth is always hard to swallow.  I was not surprised that the book,  when originally published, was banned in some parts of this country.  The  novel reveals a raw and ugly truth on our perception of beauty that that  would certainly be rejected by mainstream America. This novel is  recommended reading for the world.  Enjoy!	2000-08-03
US	51716884	R2FM177AB7N4DO	0553251996	284677602	Singin' and Swingin' and Gettin' Merry Like Christmas	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Gracious	A very pleasant read.  There's nothing like traveling Europe and Africa by way of Angelou's memory and experience (if you can't get there personally).  This autobiography covers the time Maya spent with the Porgy and Bess  opera.  I'm always amazed at the elegant, graceful and poetic way the  author tells her life story.  I'm even more amazed at how those same  characteristics are exhibited in her speech, her stature, and her aura.  This is a quick read that is sure to inspire.  Angelou has a way of sharing  wisdom and experience in a manner that connects with most any reader.  Add  this one to your list and be sure to check out some of her audiotapes as  well.  The only thing better than reading Maya's work, is listening to Maya  read her work.	2000-07-26
US	51716884	R2J0TUORPP08EB	0385498241	648980228	Not a Day Goes By: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Harris does it again!	Just when you thought Basil and Yancy had found something special their past returns revealing a background of deceit and cruelty that would surely crush any relationship.  I particularly applaud Harris for focusing on the  dynamics of relationships in such a manner as to minimize the sexuality of  the characters.  This is perfectly denoted when Zurich shares with Basil  that \\"it doesn't matter to God or anyone who I love.  It's just important  that I love . . .\\".  Harris' commitment to the growth of his readership is  indicative in how he unravels the cycle of inept parenting by Yancy, her  mother and grandmother, revealing three generations of women who, because  they never knew each other's love, would never know the love of anyone  else.<br />I was impressed when Basil appeared to take the high road with  his journal to Yancy, but we only know the first paragraph of what's inside  the journal.  Did Basil lay it down, heart and soul?  Did he pass on the  knowledge and goodwill symbolized by the ring he received from Zurich, or  has the old Basil really returned; hardened that much more by his  experience with Yancy.  Guess we'll have to wait until Harris reveals more  of his lively and complicated characters in his next novel.  Until then,  mothers and fathers tell your sons and daughters to beware of the Basils  and Yancys lurking out there.	2000-07-18
US	51716884	R15166MOIUGCTM	0452269652	522305574	Jazz	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Uhhh, well . . .  .yea!	Once again I'm left speechless.  I know that Jazz was an enjoyable read, I just can't seem to find the words to articulate the experience.  At times the novel seemed to speak to all the human senses and at times I couldn't  make sense of the novel at all.  But I finished it. And I know that I have  been affirmed, enlightened and enriched by it.  Like all of Morrison's work  that I've read to date, I will draw from these characters' experience in  times when I need to renew myself.  At that point the words to describe  this novel will pour forth, and, as always with a Morrison novel, I'll  smile and acknowledge that Toni Morrison is an extraordinary writer, who  tell a story that you'll always remember.	2000-07-12
US	51716884	R1X89132JUJF0W	0670891568	739787521	Fiona Range	Books	2	3	5	N	Y	Disappointing	Finally done with this book!  Fiona Range is by far the worst book I've read by Morris.  It was near torturous trying to finish this novel with its multitude of typos and grammatical errors.  Whoever attempted to proof/edit  this novel should be fired.  I found the story boring and the characters  lifeless.  I couldn't wait for Fiona to slice her wrist or do something  equally stupid given that her sole talent in this novel seems to be her  ability to make one stupid decision after the other.  The book's ending did  not surprise me; I'd predicted it before halfway finishing the book.  If  you're interested in truly experiencing this author's talent read Vanished  or Songs in Ordinary Time.	2000-06-30
US	51716884	R2W8SYKCX0S3S8	0312192711	470155683	Glove Puppet	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	An Excellent Read from the Land downunder	Nothing but good things to say about this debut novel by Drinnan, engaging plot, crisp, fluid prose and characters whose struggles with a life of excess leads them to destructive behaviors; the consequences of which  proves to be fatal.  In terms of ones sexual orientation, the author seems  to leave the question of environment versus genetics open to the reader's  interpretation. Did Vas' life unfold as it did because of his early  environment consisting of a drug addicted prostitute mother, and later, a  gay father figure whose life lacked social or moral boundaries?  Or was his  life predetermined, having inherited the genes of addiction, compounded  with the over active hormones of adolescence? Glove Puppet blurs the line  of love and desire in a way that demonstrates the necessity that each of us  come to a place where we're able to distinguish between the two; for  there's nothing more harmful to the individual spirit than misplaced love  or unhealthy desire.  Kudos to Drinnan for a first novel that's delivers  its characters in a raw, truthful, manner that reminds us that limits are  necessary to life enrichment and excess is just that . . . more than  necessary.	2000-06-03
US	51716884	RIYLD299PSYF5	0425146812	973741649	Second Nature	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Elementary	Nothing spectacular about this read.  Here on Earth and At Risk is by far this authors finest work.  Second Nature is the story of a child raised by wolves and later captured by hunters (original isn't it?).  The Wolfman is  later indoctrinated to the ways of human beings while constantly longing to  return to his family of wolves.  After being rescued from a state asylum,  the Wolfman is taken in by a mother, separated from her husband, who of  course ends up falling in love with the Wolfman and being impregnated with  his child.  In the midst of this predictable drama are a series of murders  of small animals and then of a child in the town (surprise, surprise!).  This is a nice story for teenagers and the extreme daydreamer but no real  literary value here, in my opinion.  The writing is smooth, but everything  else about he novel is simply elementary.	2000-05-24
US	51716884	R1WZVG0WIP76F0	0452264790	198660077	Tar Baby	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Revealing, Redemptive, Raw	In Tar Baby, Morrison explores the various relationshipsAfrican Americans find ourselves engaged in at any given point intime.  Tar Baby scrutinizes our relationship to the oppressor and toeach other, parent to child, child to parent, man to woman.  In our relationship to the oppessor the novel implies that we are forever wanting and forever in service to.  Wanting of acceptance, at times at any cost, while serving him diligently, completely.  The desire for acceptance is symbolized, in this reader's opinion, by the novel's title.  Was the Jadine character, at her worst, a white woman in black skin?  Is her acculturation likened to having poured, like tar, a black coating over the ideals, notions, and behaviors of white women? Is that what happened to Jadine's \\"ancient properties\\"?<br />Ondine and Sydny are passive yet powerful characters having lived their lives in servitude to the Streets and Jadine, whose absent \\"ancient properties\\" and connection to self, left her confused, unsure of what to make of her of her own people.  Like all of Morrison's novels, Tar Baby is filled with symbolism, lending itself to interpretation base on the reader's life experience.  Its messages are raw and intense, its characters as knowable as a long time friend. A great group reading novel.	2000-05-09
US	51716884	R3LN8GP534JLFE	0670894184	334925003	Back Roads (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Great Read!	O'Dell does an excellent job of portraying how the cycle of abuse can go beyond those obvious instances where an abuse victim does unto someone else the same acts of abuse done unto them.  This depiction of the cycle of  abuse expands from the physical abuse of a parent to his children to the  sexual abuse of the children to each other.  The fact that O'Dell writes  about the children's abuse of each other in a way that allows you to \\"see  the love\\" is indicative of a skilled novelist with superb insight to the  psychological working of the mind at various stages of development.  Her  use of the sexual abuse as an allegory for the emptiness and despair caused  by emotional abuse as a child is handled with a precision and care that  allows the reader to better understand the circumstances and not focus so  much on the nature of the act. Added to this story line is a murder plot  that spins with all the elements of a good mystery. The novel is perfected  with wonderful characters that are loveable in one chapter, pitied in the  next, despised later on. A very well done first novel worthy of your time.	2000-04-20
US	51716884	RVVKJ9D00EZTR	0671020668	772003176	The OBJECT OF MY AFFECTION MOVIE TIE IN	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Well Done	A good read filled with the stuff of a great love affair. Excellent writing that is both funny and insightful.  The Object of My Affection explores the complicated aspects of relationships, love and friendship.  The characters are thoroughly enjoyable, quite likable, and very familiar.  I particularly enjoyed George's family.  The writing of these characters  was a source of good honest humor -- the kind where the truth is so clear,  you laugh to keep from crying.  I'm anxious to rent the movie to see who  was cast as the family.  A great first novel and welcomed introduction to  this author.  I'm looking forward to enjoying more of his work.	2000-04-15
US	51716884	R1B4C00VJBJ14W	0452260116	312810069	Song of Solomon	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A third reading of a first rate novel	It is the recent (publicized) onslaught of killings by police of black unarmed men that sparked my third reading of Morrison's third novel.  &#34;Everybody wants the life of a black man.&#34; advises Guitar in conversation with Milkman, the novels protagonist.  &#34;Everybody.  White men want us dead or quiet  which is the same thing. White women, same thing.  They want us, you know, 'universal,' human, no 'race consciousness.' Tame except in bed.  They like a little racial loincloth in the bed.  You tell them, 'But they lynched my papa,' and they say, 'Yeah, but youre better than the lynchers are, so forget it.'  And black women, they want your whole self.  Love they call it, and understanding. 'Why don't you understand me?'  What they mean is, Don't love anything on earth except me.  They say, 'Be responsible,' but what they mean is, Dont go anywhere where I ain't.&#34;  This is one of the more poignant passages in &#34;Son of Solomon&#34; that stuck with me when I first read the book and I am reminded of it and many others with each news flash of a black mans murder from excessive force by white officers.<br /><br />&#34;There is a society.&#34;  starts another conversation that I recalled when it didn't appear that the killing would cease or that anything would be done about it.  &#34;It's made up of a few men who are willing to take some risks.  They don't initiate anything; they don't even choose.  They are as indifferent as rain.  But when a Negro child, Negro woman, or Negro man is killed by whites and nothing is done about it by their law and their courts, this society selects a similar victim at random, and they execute him or her in a similar manner if they can.  If the Negro was hanged, they hang; if a Negro was burnt, they burn; raped and murdered, they rape and murder.  If they can.  If they can't do it precisely in the same manner they do it any way they can, but they do it.  They call themselves the Seven Days.&#34;  This exchange between Guitar and Milkman is reflective of my greatest fear as the police violence against African Americans continues.  Before the shootings of officers in Dallas, Texas I could sense that African Americans were at a tipping point.  That, given the institutional racism and injustice historically faced by African Americas, someone at some point would take up the matter of justices for black lives and make it a cause for vengeance instead of political and policy change.<br /><br />Like all novel re-readings, this reading at this time revealed new insights and confirmed old ones.  With this reading my interest, as is Milkman's, in naming and its tradition in African American culture was piqued. &#34;He read the road signs with interest now, wondering what lay beneath the names.&#34;  describes Milkman's state on his return to Michigan from his ancestral home.  As keeper of nine generations of my family tree (and having recently updated it) I am particularly interested in nicknames and how they are determined. Given names and where they come from. Titles and their meaning.  The extent to which given names are handed down but only nicknames used. To echo the author's words, &#34;Names they got from yearnings, gestures, flaws, events, mistakes, weaknesses.  Names that bore witness.&#34;<br /><br />I've recommended &#34;Song of Solomon&#34; to every African American male that I know.  My hope is that at some point they all get around to reading it.  Morrison's portrayal of black male experiences is indeed one of the most prolific epics ever written.  I'm already looking forward to my fourth reading!<br /><br />----------------2nd Reading -------------------------<br /><br />I first read &#34;Song of Solomon&#34; in March of 2000 and was mesmerized by the story and the telling of it.  The second reading of the book was as meaningful as the first.  After six years, the story seems completely new to me.  The text is the same, the story unchanged.  What could possibly be so different now from then?  Well of course it's me.  Six years of life, and living it, has produced a totally new reading experience for me.  Six years later I am able to appreciate the pitfalls of Hagar's love and the endlessness of Pilate's more fully. I can see more clearly the isolation created by Milkman's disconnection from his people and his-story.  And for the first time, after reading the book of the bible with the same title and doing a bit of internet surfing, I was able to contemplate the common thread between novel story and biblical story.  It's all about love you see, in one form or another.  It always is.  If you haven't read it yet, get to it.  If you've read it previously, pick it up and see how you've changed since the last reading.  If you've never read it and have no plans to, you're missing an experience that could change your life.  Enjoy!<br />--------------------------------- 1st Reading -----------------------<br />Creative, mystical, magical and at times simply phenomenal.  I have yet to be disappointed by a Morrison novel.  Her ability to reveal a plot from the center outward is masterful, poetic.  In Song of Solomon, the characters teach us the importance of staying connected to your ancestry, the joy that comes with love  first of yourself, then of others.  In the same novel, via the same characters, Morrison demonstrates how barren one is without the bond created when you know your people; how devastated and wanting one can become in the absence of love.  Beautiful writing, great characters, complete fulfillment.  Enjoy it!e.  Six years of life, and living it, has produced a totally new reading experience for me.  Six years later I am able to appreciate the pitfalls of Hagar's love and the endlessness of Pilate's more fully. I can see more clearly the isolation created by Milkman's disconnection from his people and his-story.  And for the first time, after reading the book of the bible with the same title and doing a bit of internet surfing, I was able to contemplate the common thread between novel story and biblical story.  It's all about love you see, in one form or another.  It always is.  If you haven't read it yet, get to it.  If you've read it previously, pick it up and see how you've changed since the last reading.  If you've never read it and have no plans to, you're missing an experience that could change your life.  Enjoy! --------------------------------- 1st Reading ----------------------- Creative, mystical, magical and at times simply phenomenal.  I have yet to be disappointed by a Morrison novel.  Her ability to reveal a plot from the center outward is masterful, poetic.  In Song of Solomon, the characters teach us the importance of staying connected to your ancestry, the joy that comes with love  first of yourself, then of others.  In the same novel, via the same characters, Morrison demonstrates how barren one is without the bond created when you know your people; how devastated and wanting one can become in the absence of love.  Beautiful writing, great characters, complete fulfillment.  Enjoy it!	2000-03-30
US	51716884	R3TO4ZQ26K18C2	0385497466	376574359	The Brethren	Books	3	1	1	N	N	For Entertainment Purposes Only	An entertaining read.  I no longer expect the caliber of writing that Grisham achieved with A Time To Kill or The Firm, so there was no great disappointment in the scripted, lack-luster writing style of The Brethren.  I could almost see the movie as I was reading the book.  I did enjoy the  parallelism with the presidential primary in the novel and the current  presidential primary underway here in the U.S.  I was reading the chapter  where Arron Lake wins the Michigan-Arizona primary on the day of the actual  Michigan-Arizona primary in the U.S.  When McCain won the primary here in  the States, the similarity was uncanny and I enjoyed a chuckle or two given  the timing of it all. I didn't feel in any way connected to the characters'  plight. Not that there wasn't great potential in the plot and subplots,  just that Grisham seem to provide only the bare essentials, as if he were  providing an outline for a more imaginative writer to fill in. This is no  super engaging, intellectually enthralling novel, but it was entertaining  and a fast read.  Judging from Grisham's last five novels, perhaps we  shouldn't expect anything more.	2000-03-02
US	51716884	R8SZCW3ZDKTJA	1565122968	780904511	Gap Creek : The Story of a Marriage	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Hard work builds character  . . . .  .	Excellent writing with powerful messages delivered in simple language.  It's easy to lose sight of the difficulties of day to day rural living before modern technology and made our lives easier and allowed us to work  \\"smarter not harder\\".  Gap Greek helps us remember that the glory in hard  work is not what we get for it, but what we become by it.  The novel also  demonstrates the importance of community, family support, and role both  play in sustaining life. A good and easy read well worth the time spent.	2000-02-19
US	51716884	R26HZR5Q6TQVOT	037540273X	675572194	Beloved: Gift Edition	Books	5	4	5	N	N	This Is The Prize	It's taken me over a year to formulate my reaction to Beloved. I've browsed the reviews of this book and noticed that most readers either loved it or were left somewhat confused by it. Although it took me a while to be  able to articulate my thoughts and feelings on this experience; it wasn't  confusion that bound my tongue, it's just that it took my brain a while to  understand intellectually what my soul spewed forth emotionally.  Intellectually, Beloved is challenging and thought-provoking.  To be able  to follow the characters cognitive processes through, flash backs,  recollection and prophesying is an intellectual accomplishment in itself.  Emotionally, the book is invigorating, stimulating feelings that can't be  verbalized, only integrated into the spirit of my being making me that much  more compassionate, emphatic, and free. I return to Beloved to read Baby  Suggs, woodland service whenever I need to replenish my reservoir of hope,  and strength.<br />It is a complex book, but so is the subject matter.  To  be able to explore the experience of the enslaved, the mentality of the  enslaver, is no simple matter. I saw the movie prior to reading the book.  The movie left me speechless.  The book returned my voice.  Beloved is  enriching, captivating.  It's certainly a prize novel and I'm pleased that  the Nobel Committee was able to recognize it.  Kudos to Morrison for  delivering this experience to the world.	2000-02-12
US	51716884	R12YK2733LCMSV	0684829975	318753432	The Vision of Emma Blau	Books	5	27	27	N	Y	A Rhapsody in Prose	Spanning over ninety years and four generations, The Vision of Emma Blau explores the frailties and strength of the human condition.  With musical pose, in-depth character development and multi-threaded plot lines, Hegi  manages to deliver a clear story of unrequited love, hunger for success,  and desire for acceptance.  The life of each character is detailed in a  manner that connects the reader to their circumstances and makes one  question the true cost of adoration from afar and the price one pays for  wanting those things that they can never really have.  It is true that  anything one is willing to have at any cost, one will acquire at all cost;  and why pay more than necessary for anything.	2000-02-09
US	51716884	R3OFMRTXENQGUD	156512250X	634439244	Comfort and Joy	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	Underwhelming	Clear and fluid prose, excellent imagery, under-whelming story.  Grimsley's ability to paint beautiful scenery with words is nearly negated by his inability to write a gripping story.  I finished this book wanting more.  I didn't feel particularly enriched by this novel although it was a  quick and easy read.  Based on the other reviews of this author I'll try  another novel by him but probably not anytime soon.	2000-01-27
US	51716884	R3QK5SGO4TLMC6	0679727914	325130492	In My Father's House	Books	3	8	9	N	N	o.k.	A good read.  Gaines has the ability to create very believable characters undergoing very real experiences.  He is able to present the issues of his characters in prose that is clear and easily readable.  So why didn't he  get a higher rating from me . . . because I didn't feel changed in any way  as a result of reading this novel.  The story was actually quite  predictable. He poses many questions in the novel but doesn't deliver on  possible solutions to the challenges faced by the Reverend or his son.  He  leaves the reader with no better understanding of the complexities of the  father/son bond than he may have had prior to reading the book.  When I  finished this book, I thought, \\"there must be more\\", but then I remembered  reading A Lesson Before Dying and thinking the same of that book.  I do  believe that the novel can provide some validation to the experiences of  many fathers and sons who share similar situations as the Reverend and  Etienne. The book may also serve as a basis for discussion between fathers  and sons in troubled relationships (depending on the nature of the  \\"trouble\\").  For those two reasons alone I'd recommend this book.	2000-01-14
US	51716884	R2GG3KX00TUOEY	0679460624	307104021	Even the Stars Look Lonesome	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Awesome	What a Voice! What an inspiration, and great enunciation.  The Lady is her usual awesome self in this wise and eloquent sharing of some of her more intimate life experiences.  It's impossible to adequately praise Angelou's  ability to speak to the heart and soul, whether through her written work or  recorded truth.  You'll listen to this over and over again, and will be  renewed, and renewed.  Enjoy!	1999-12-17
US	51716884	R1YUNE06YDC0XO	0679446265	629371597	Push	Books	5	74	89	N	N	Great Book!	Push. Thrust. Drive. Ram. Move forward. Set in motion. Press on.  It all encompasses the very essence of what it is to struggle.  There are two ways of exerting force, one is by pushing down, the other by pulling up.  Sapphire certainly pushed the envelope with this first novel.  These women  tapped into their last reserves of strength to move forward under brutal  and bizarre circumstances.  They have collected what little is left of  themselves, pulled together in the spirit of love and compassion, and  decided to press on.  This novel is a powerful display of perseverance, and  determination.  Read this book and know that whenever you feel like you  just can't keep going, all you need to do is Push a little harder, pull  someone with you, and keep moving on.	1999-12-17
US	51716884	RPKD6JWEAPB6R	0060919949	221336305	Moses, Man of the Mountain	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great Discussion Group Book	A good read.  Hurston does an excellent job of depicting the parallel experiences of the captivity of the Israelites and the American Slave.  In fact, one could argue that the experience of the Israelites is the American  Slave experience. This is a great book for high school reading, it provides  a variety of cause and effect themes that all young adults need to know;  among them, if you oppress a people or person you breed fear, insecurity,  and eventual self hatred in that human. I highly recommend Their Eyes Were  Watching God another of Hurston's literary jewels. jewels.	1999-12-17
US	51716884	RIPBQ4J5EQNPI	0609803875	380393154	A Gracious Plenty: A Novel	Books	5	22	34	N	N	A Literary Epiphany	Just wanted to share a literary epiphany that I experienced recently as a result of reading this book.  You know - one of those moments where fiction fuses with reality and you're left in a head spin trying to find that place  where the two co-exist.<br />I attended the Unity Day Festival in Chicago a  couple of weeks ago with a friend.  The day was clear and extremely hot, we  were hard pressed to find a shade tree or any darkness that could provide  momentary relief from the sun.  Surrounded by the heat generated from the  sun, Bar-B-Q grills and a thousand or so Black folks out \\"concerting\\", my  friend and I ventured into the swell of people, figuring we'd rather be out  and about in the heat instead of sitting still in it.  We walked closer to  the concert stage and stopped in the midst of spread blankets and smoking  grills.  People were standing, swaying just enough to blend with the  rhythmic melody of Faith Evans while not overheating in the intensity of  the sun.<br />To my right stood a woman dressed in white pant and blouse  holding a plastic cup, wet with condensation created from the chill of its  contents.  The woman - her physical appearance - was extremely maimed and  disfigured.  From each hand extended three digits, reduced in number by the  conjoining of the index and middle finger, the pinky and ring finger.  Her  face seemed to be the final resting-place for eyes that have sucked in too  many shocked, afraid, and uneasy expressions from others.  Eyes that seemed  designed to show the imbalance of compassion and fear; the compassionate  eye being small and thinly shaped, stretching itself in both directions in  an attempt to gather more.  The eye of fear was swollen; and overfilled  with its substance, protruded slightly from its orbit, creating limitless  space for expansion.  Her nose was grandiose and distinctively separated  down the center by a scar that concluded at her lip.  Her mouth was war  worn and battle torn.  It contained the casing for teeth, the majority of  which had long retreated from the red and black gums whose job it was to  keep them secure.  The remaining teeth stood at exhausted attention, the  absence of their comrades displaying the weakness in both the formation and  the remaining teeth.  Contributing to this oral war was her tongue.  Reptilian in size and motion the tongue lashed throughout her mouth and on  occasion surfaced from its fortress of teeth and gum to survey the  battlefield.  Lifeless, stringy black hair situated itself atop her head,  disheveling itself with each breeze.  Her back was bent; not only to  support the growth that emerged from the back of her shoulder, but also, it  seemed, to accommodate the weight of her physical other-ness in a world  that finds comfort in similarity.<br />As I took in the totality of her  being, I stared.  Not a stare of shock, fear, or indifference; but a stare  of familiarity.  The quizzical stare that says, \\"you remind me of someone  that I once knew\\".  As I searched the expanse of my memory for a clue, I  found myself reliving experiences that did not belong to me.  A baby crying  in a cemetery, a destructive ice storm, neither experience lived by me, but  both associated with the woman.  After taking in a little more sun and  music, we moved onward to partake of the exhibits and other activities of  Unity Day; from that moment on, I racked my brain and shook my memory in an  effort to remember where I could have met this woman.<br />The epiphany  manifested itself as tingles that traversed the entirety of my body.  Air  seemed to pass through me as if neither flesh nor bones existed to serve as  barriers, and the day seemed to get brighter.  At that moment I turned to  my friend, excited with the revelation of knowing my acquaintance with the  woman and said, \\" I know who she reminds me of!\\"  My friend, now displaying  the same look of knowingness replied, \\" the character from that book . . .  the graveyard keeper!\\"<br />A Gracious Plenty by Sheri Reynolds is the  novel that provided that shared experience with my best friend and the  connection to the woman.  The main character of the novel, Finch, is  written as a woman with disfigurements similar to those of the woman at  Unity Day.  Finch is a graveyard keeper who is able to talk to the dead.  Because of her physical appearance, she is isolated from the community and  finds that her greatest usefulness is in tending to the needs of the  cemetery and the spirits that live within it.  Reynolds writes with such  fluidity, compassion, and grace that Finch's physical other-ness neither  detracts from nor adds to (in any significant way) the story line.  And  isn't that the way it should be?  Shouldn't our differences find their  place among all our other uniqueness to form the entirety of our human  existence and experience?  Shouldn't our reaction to and acceptance of  others be based on more than the external surface that draws our immediate  attention?<br />I've loved all three books by Reynolds.  Her writing has the  ability to uncover differences among us and present them in a way that  enlightens and enriches the reader.  It was because my life had been  enriched by Finch, that I did not flinch, at the appearance of the woman in  the park. Reynolds connected me, through Finch, to an experience that I may  not have come to know in any other way.  It was because of that connection  that my stare at the woman contained a smile of familiarity instead of a  frown of disgust or disapproval.<br />And this, my fellow readers and  writers is why I love books!  It is this type of literary epiphany that  validates and strengthens our experiences. Through literature, we are able  to connect to and familiarize ourselves with realities that may not be our  own.  May you continue to grow and learn through the written word.<br />A Gracious Plenty by Sheri Reynolds is the  novel that provided that shared experience with my best friend and the  connection to the woman.    The main character of the novel, Finch, is  written as a woman with disfigurements similar to those of the woman at  Unity Day.  Finch is a graveyard keeper who is able to talk to the dead.   Because of her physical appearance, she is isolated from the community and  finds that her greatest usefulness is in tending to the needs of the  cemetery and the spirits that live within it.  Reynolds writes with such  fluidity, compassion, and grace that Finch's physical other-ness neither  detracts from nor adds to (in any significant way) the story line.  And  isn't that the way it should be?   Shouldn't our differences find their  place among all our other uniqueness to form the entirety of our human  existence and experience?   Shouldn't our reaction to and acceptance of  others be based on more than the external surface that draws our immediate  attention?<br />I've loved all three books by Reynolds.  Her writing has the  ability to uncover differences among us and present them in a way that  enlightens and enriches the reader.  It was because my life had been  enriched by Finch, that I did not flinch, at the appearance of the woman in  the park. Reynolds connected me, through Finch, to an experience that I may  not have come to know in any other way.  It was because of that connection  that my stare at the woman contained a smile of familiarity instead of a  frown of disgust or disapproval.  <br />And this, my fellow readers and  writers is why I love books!  It is this type of literary epiphany that  validates and strengthens our experiences. Through literature, we are able  to connect to and familiarize ourselves with realities that may not be our  own.  May you continue to grow and learn through the written word.	1999-12-07
US	51716884	R36DAPO2SGPLFH	0385720106	305678170	A Map of the World: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	1	4	7	N	N	Bad Choice - Oprah	I tried to read this book about a month ago and couldn't get past the first 4 chapters.  I am surprised that this made Oprah's list.  Kinda makes me want to finish it but I'd really hate to invest the time and the book  turns out to be a dud. Although Hamilton is one of my favorite writers this  novel just didn't work for me.  For a better view of Hamilton's talents  check out The Book of Ruth or The Short History of a Prince.  Both  excellent reads.	1999-12-04
US	51716884	R3TVX8DV8YO5P3	0380730138	979924066	Vinegar Hill (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	38	40	N	N	An Enjoyable Read	Kinda wicked, kinda crazy, but definitely a good read.  The writing was clear, the story moving. I view this novel as a reflection of how blind faith can lead one astray.  Although an excellent tale of one's ability to  endure and overcome, I was slightly disappointed that Ansay didn't expose  us to the new Ellen, strong and confident, sturdy and assured.  Even though  most of Oprah's book seem to have a similar theme (struggle, oppression,  eventual self-actualization), she does an excellent job of selecting novels  that cover the theme creatively, and realistically.	1999-12-01
US	51716884	R1C96M43MXO5FM	067974472X	908754395	The Fire Next Time	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Where There's Smoke There's Sure To Be Fire!	Perhaps the most significant indictment on racism in America written in the twentieth century, The Fire Next time ignites the mind and soul, causing the reader, whether black or white to reexamine the state of human  relations in this country.  With the intensity of a million flames and the  insight of a prophet, Baldwin details the struggles faced by African  Americans (American Negroes then) in a culture that has brutalized,  vilified, and rendered us powerless.  His insight into the white psyche and  its dehumanizing effect on African Americans is frightening and yet as real  today as it was in 1962 when this essay was published. How unnerving it was  to read this book in 1999 and be faced with the realization that some 37  years later we as a nation are no closer to bridging the racial divide in  this country.<br />I particularly applaud Baldwin for his eloquent  discussion of what must be done, by both black and white America to release  this country from the shackles that prevent us truly becoming the greatest  nation on earth (in deed, not just rhetoric).  I highly recommend this book  as a must read for the country.  In 1962, Baldwin's level of candor may  have been somewhat off-putting to white America (the government considered  him a Communist), for the truth can be an awfully bitter pill to swallow.  Still, it's my hope that at that some point, white America will reckon with  their own physiological, spiritual and political ills.  Until then, African  Americans must continue to hold a mirror before the face of injustice of  this nation, while struggling to claim a place in a country that seems dead  set on keeping us a drift.	1999-11-21
US	51716884	R22BBJCDRCUNPO	0375501371	685444613	A Widow for One Year: A Novel	Books	5	23	28	N	N	Completely Engaging!	I loved this book!  A Widow For One Year is a story of a group of writers whose lives are intertwined through love affairs, friendships, and kinship. The fact that the characters are writers is a key component of the novel  and the aspect that I enjoyed most. Irving takes the reader on a literary  joy ride with characters and situations that are believable and exciting.  He tells this story using a multi-voiced approach and he is able to change  voice without any interruption to the story.  At times he's narrative and  at times he's providing information about the characters or plot though a  work of fiction written by one the characters.  Technically speaking, the  book is written as perfectly as humanly possible (no doubt a Writing  Fiction course could be taught with this novel as a guide)  As a reader,  the novel is extremely engaging; (no I didn't want to put it down).  As a  writer, the novel is informative and demonstrative (literally) of how good  fiction is created.  I'm certain that I'll be a better writer as a result  of reading this book and unfortunately, for some authors, I'll be a lot  more critical as a reader as well.	1999-11-10
US	51716884	R28SB5JFDLM6HW	0375707972	153296191	The Reader	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Just o.k	I've tried to find gracious ways in which to describe this book but the truth of the matter, for me, is that this was simply an o.k. read.  Although the subject matter is of interest the writing failed to connect me  to the experiences of the characters in any memorable way.  I'm certain  that this would have been a much better literary experience if I could read  German and experience the book in its native language.  Throughout the  entire novel, I kept feeling that there was significant meaning lost in the  translation to English.  While in San Francisco, I met a couple who  simply loved the book.  In my brief conversation with them, they confirmed  that most people with whom they've spoken with about the book either loved  it or hated it.  I'm somewhere in between. The Reader is an easy enough  read but not very engaging.  I highly recommend the book to high school  children who are starting to learn about the Holocaust (and no, I don't  think the relationship between Hanna and Michael was child abuse).  For  adults who are looking for a more intellectually stimulating read on the  subject matter I strongly recommend Ursula Hegi's Stones From The River.	1999-09-29
US	51716884	R2K6G57GC1IWJO	0684844826	454180310	Salt Dancers	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Its In The Writing!	Exquisitely written.  Salt Dancers explores the life of a family separated, physically and emotionally, by secretes and lies.  The story is told through the voice of the daughter, who returns home after many years  of absence to uncover the &quot;whys&quot; behind the physical abuse from  her father and the truth behind the disappearance of her mother.  Sounds  pretty formula, but the beauty of the novel is in the writing.  Hegi's  prose is crisp, fluid, and expressive.  She simplifies in writing some of  most complex emotions and thought processes existent in the human  experience.  I agree with other reviews in that this is no Stones From The  River or Intrusions, but a worthy read for those who can appreciate the  intricacies of fine writing.	1999-09-17
US	51716884	R2FFNBXZTPXCYA	0452263492	921712930	Sula	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Intellectually engaging and poetic	I can never really put my finger on it but whenever I've finished a Morrison book, I'm left nursing a range of feelings from awe to despair.  I'm left wondering what the book was all about, which forces me to exam  more closely the characters, conflict, and plot behind the novel.  The end  result of this closer examination is always a better understanding of self  and a richer appreciation for others.<br />In this novel of good and evil,  depicted in experiences that are recognizable to us all, Morrison becomes a  master weaver.  Masterful in her ability to weave the conflicts of her  characters with conflicts of the bible.  Masterful with her use of metaphor  and flawless with her use of language, Sula extols life and the subtle evil  that's woven within it.  The novel supports the axiom that for good to  exist, evil must be present.  Sula blurs the line between love and hate  such that one can easily be mistaken for the other at any point in the  novel.<br />Three years ago I couldn't get past the first five chapters of  Song of Solomon.  I know there are many readers who feel that Morrison's  work is difficult to comprehend and follow.  It was the author herself who  provided the single greatest perspective on her writing style.  She said,  in essence, that life is not linear . . . and neither are her books.  With  my expectation for linear sequence adjusted, I successfully finished, and  thoroughly enjoyed, the Bluest Eye, and Paradise.  I've seen Beloved five  times and enjoyed each viewing (yep, I'm gonna read the book as well).	1999-09-03
US	51716884	R805DYPTMB2U7	1555534007	66355465	Peyton Place (Hardscrabble BooksFiction of New England)	Books	5	48	50	N	N	Times change, people truely stay the same . . . .	The clear, eloquent writing of Metalious immediately seized my attention.  The steady, powerful development of characters aroused my interests and kept me eagerly anticipating their experiences.  The damnation of this  literary jewel in 1956 provides excellent insight to the era.  Although  much has changed since 1956; the scandals, struggles and experiences  depicted in the novel seem to have remained the same.  I read this book  thinking that there would be vast differences in what would have  constituted a scandal then versus now.  What I learned is that people's  behavior hasn't changed much at all but our reactions have become more  muted, and our tolerance greater. Peyton Place is a depiction of life.  Then and now.  Change the publication date and the characters, and  experiences are as true now as they were then.  Mitalious managed to  capture the essence of life conflict and struggle in a manner that is  timeless and continuous.  I'll read this book again in 20 years and I  expect that it will still provide a realistic view of life experiences and  behavior.  This novel is a must in everyone's library!	1999-08-25
US	51716884	R3DA4ROL8QBNK3	042516246X	681910708	Bitterroot Landing	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Bittersweet and Beautiful	Bitter are the roots of pain that bind the existence of incest survivors.  Jael, with all her oddities, emerges whole after being torn by abuse of the body and neglect of the soul.  This is an amazing story that places the  reader in the center of the characters struggle to liberate herself from a  life of oppression. Renynolds is a master of prose and she continues to  deliver literature that captivate, motivate and stimulate.  I've read The  Rapture of Caanan and A Gracious Plenty, both powerful in their delivery of  nourishment for the soul.  A definite must read.	1999-08-12
US	51716884	R33WGRDSJHCD9I	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Should be a great movie	Enjoyable.  The book didn't sweep me away necessarily but it did hold my interest.  I'm looking forward to the movie.	1999-07-29
US	51716884	R3V3XT6Q87YPR6	0140272119	56222440	A Dangerous Woman	Books	3	5	14	N	N	The Truth Will Set You Free?	Truth can be a like an LSD trip (so I hear), just the right amount can make life appear more colorful, simpler, more free.  In excessive doses truth, like LSD, can drive you crazy!  Meet Martha Horgan, the most honest  lunatic in Atkinson.  Through Marth's experience we learn that the plain,  simple truth is neither plan nor simple and in many cases not welcome.  We  also learn that many people reshape and rearrange facts to develop a truth  that they can live with.<br />Although I have a great deal of admiration for  the writing ability of Morris, I must admit that A Dangerous Woman was a  rather laborious read, the superb dialogue couldn't compensate for the  predictable plot.  I recommend the book for corporate professionals and  attorneys, both groups notorious for reconstructing facts to suit personal  agendas.  For a better view of Morris' work, read Vanished.	1999-07-07
US	51716884	R3TQPTQYU3VV1Y	0786863900	805394515	First Person Plural: My Life As a Multiple	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Enlightening and thoroughly enjoyable !	One of the most enlightening and thoroughly enjoyable read this year!  First Person Plural serves as a beckon of hope for those living with Dissociative Identity Disorder.  It provides insight into the inner  workings of the dissociated self, while captivating the reader with the  reality of day to life as a multiple.  In reading this book, I'm reminded  of the number of people I've encountered whose behavior, in retrospect,  could have been attributed to DID.  The homeless woman pushing her cart  and engaged in full conversation with an invisible friend; the elder uncle  who rambles constantly to an audience of himself.  Chances are, at some  point, these individuals had some contact with the mental health  professionals; I can't help but wonder if they were equipped to recognize  the symptoms of DID or did they simply medicate and dismiss without further  investigation.  Its my hope that by publishing his life experience, West  will draw attention to a mental illness that is often misdiagnosed and  misunderstood.  The fact that he is able to work through this condition,  perservere to obtain a doctorate in psychology, and write a powerfully  candid book is a testament to the strength of the human soul.  When  wrapped in the cloth of love and acceptance, the human soul is indeed  unbreakable.  My highest regards to Dr. West, may God bless and care for  you and your guys.	1999-06-04
US	51716884	R2F1KS3CGHH6KJ	0679457747	365674943	All God's Children Need Traveling Shoes	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Politically and culturally enlightening . . .	I finished this book feeling just a little more connected to an Africa about which I've only been able to fantasize.  This book sings to your heart with prose that is rhythmic and satiating, delicious to the eyes and  savory to the tongue.  For me, the only thing that could possibly top  &quot;Auntie's&quot; writing is her speaking.  In a voice that booms with  quietness, Maya stokes and caresses, calms and enlightens.  I've never had  a disappointing experience with her autobiographical work or poetry.  She's  simply wonderful.	1999-05-25
US	51716884	R3QLDJ2M46N8V4	1573226521	117734468	The Beach	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Life's A Beach . .  . Careful Where You Swim . .  .	Wow . . . what was that all about?  True for any artistic work . . . it depends on the person experiencing it.  For those whose life is absent of adventure, The Beach is a well written collage of action, suspense, and  conflict, serving as a motivator to go and experience life.  For those who  seek the never ending peace, tranquility and joy that Paradise offers, it  is hopeful, and in some instances validated our notion of what Paradise  must be like (in the early part of the book at least).  For those whose  pessimism looms in the forefront of their conciseness, it's predictable,  but well written., The Beach is creatively written and filled with  symbolism.  It is bound to strike a cord with almost anyone who reads the  book.  Lesson learned . . . Paradise is a perfectly beautiful place and  can only stay that way if mortal man never discovers it.	1999-05-18
US	51716884	R39CFE3Z6FP9CW	0684844818	883427952	Intrusions	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A Lesson in Writing	An excellent read for anyone interested in the writing process.  How ironic it is that I'm writing this review and still have 12 pages of the book left to read.  The novel started off with a rather fast pace, then  life's &quot;intrusions&quot; begin to impact my reading time.  I'm  currently at the point where I want to finish this book and start another;  but I can't seem to get beyond selecting paint for the dining room,  evaluating stocks for the investment club, finishing my taxes, figuring out  how to recover lost time on a project at work, blah, blah, blah. . . ..  Hegi's writing continues to impress me, with Intrusions and Stones From The  River, she's two for two in my book.  Intrusions is creative, witty, and  psychologically stimulating.  Writers and writing teachers should really  enjoy this one.	1999-03-29
US	51716884	R2W6X4NPKZ18KY	0385493800	934400771	The Testament	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Alright??????	An enjoyable read.  Still not representative of the fast pace, page-turning writing that Grisham became know for in his earlier writings.  I read the first 10 chapters of The Testament in one sitting, then the book  started to slow down,  and at times it actually bored me.  Grisham's  earlier books were captivating, enthralling, and suspenseful.  This was not  the case with The Testament, (or The Rainmaker, or Runaway Jury).  Perhaps  its too much to ask that an author's writing continue to mature over time  (like a good wine).  Am I wrong to expect for an author to live up to  his/her end of the reader-author relationship by writing from a center of  conviction, not commercialism?  Don't get me wrong, I didn't despise the  book, ( I felt totally let down with The Rainmaker, couldn't even finish  it!), it just doesn't measure up to his earlier writings (A Time To Kill,  The Firm. . . ).  But when all is said and done, . . . I'm still a  dedicated Grisham fan,  I have everything he's written and overall he's  provided a quite enjoyable reading experience.  If nothing else, The  Testament convinced me that I need to prepare a will immediately!	1999-03-07
US	51716884	R1WNN7UFAM4GBK	0671038230	835489451	Jewel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	What-Ever???????	My God, what a laborious read!  Certainly the worst of Oprah's choices to date.  A very slow and deliberate read only to be disappointed at the end.  .. straight through to the Epilogue, a consistent disappointment.  The  story line had so much potential. I was looking forward to being  transported to an experience of a family with a Downs Syndrome child.  What  I got was a sophomoric attempt to massage the heart into actually feeling  something for these persona-less characters and their lives.  In my  opinion, Lott didn't do this subject matter justice at all.	1999-02-18
US	51716884	R2GJ8T7KWK76Z6	0945575335	705453553	A Cure for Dreams	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Could Have Been Better	This reads like an author's first novel.  Not a bad read, but certainly not as powerful as Ellen Foster, A Virtuous Woman, or Sights Unseen.  Usually I'm able to associate the title of a book with the plot, or  characters of the novel.  I'm at a loss for the correlation here.  If you  happen to be between reads, and have already read Gibbons other work, then  go ahead and give this a shot.  If you've never read any of her work and  this is your introduction to Gibbons,  try one of her other novels first.	1999-02-11
US	51716884	RFBQH0XOVVCD	0374510636	144927422	Nobel Lecture (Bilingual Edition) (English and Russian Edition)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Much Is Required of Those Who Possess The Gift of Art	A very eloquent way of identifying the relationship between literature and social responsibility.  Even more impressive is the way Solzhenitsyn connects literature, art and writing to a greater spiritual force work in  the universe.  This speech reinforces the power and strength of the written  word.  It elevates literature to its rightful place as facilitator of  goodwill among people and my belief that there is no better nourishment for  the soul that a good book.	1999-01-21
US	51716884	R2AS1CS8K8QMI7	0140272100	619200138	Vanished	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Easily One of The Best Stories Ever Written!	The amount of good in the heart means nothing if it doesn't find its way to the surface.  For good has to live in the forefront of one's existence.  It has to be rewarded, embraced, set free, shared, passed on. .  . or it  does no good.  The good in Wallace never flourished, was never nourished.  The suppression of the good in Wallace allowed the evil in Dotty to grow  and consume their entire existence.  Although I'm not disappointed that  things appear to work out for Dotty in the end (she truly deserved a  break),  I am very saddened by the way things turned out for Wallace; he  too needed a break.  Mary McGary Morris has elevated herself to one of my  all time favorite authors.  I thoroughly enjoyed &quot;Songs In Ordinary  Time&quot; and &quot;Vanished&quot; is indeed a wonderfully crafted work of  art that I will remember for a lifetime.	1999-01-18
US	51716884	ROBCV29I7BOO9	1885983123	169926346	Lord of Dark Places	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Tragic, Enlightening, Erotic, Saddening.	I'm sitting at my keyboard with a blank stare,  trying to articulate the impact of this novel on my world view.  This was a very intense read for me.  Bennet throws everything but the kitchen sink in this book. . ..  social, racial, political, religious, sexual (gay/bi?), and moral issues  are interwoven throughout the plot.  At times the author is actually able  to connect some of the dots, tie a few lose threads,  but more often than  not,  the sexual and erotic exploits of the characters overshadows some  very  serious and at times quite profound social commentary.  I'd certainly  recommend this book for group reading. . . the more perspectives you get on  this one the better. . . .	1999-01-11
US	51716884	R3PY9PXDJ8B82C	0375701850	172755698	Hallucinating Foucault	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Thought Provoking,  Refreshing and quite Enjoyable	A beautifully refreshing and creative work of art.  Duncker challenges the status quo using fictitious characters struggling with real issues and societal constraints on love, creativity, and uniqueness.  Duncker points  out that insanity is perceived as anything that strays outside of societal  norms. She also manages to make it very clear that stepping outside of  societal norms is necessary to portray a more complete view of what is . .  . its the diverse thought, experiences  and perceptions of the whole of  society that gets us closer to the truth of our collective reality.  I  thoroughly enjoyed the way the reader/writer relationship is portrayed in  the novel.  I finished this book believing that any writer worth the ink in  his typewriter should hold the relationship with his reader in the highest  regard and adoration.  In doing so, the reader makes the writer accountable  for producing work that will strengthen and glorify the relationship;  forcing the writer to write from the heart and soul  . . . .the center of  any successful relationship.	1998-12-28
US	51716884	R2M2EDR82MPZFS	0375706771	930468436	Midwives (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very Informative	A well written and informative  account of social , and legal issues in Midwifery and home birth.  I'm not suggesting that everyone run buy it, but should you have any interst in practicing Midwifery or home birth it is  definately well worth the read.	1998-12-08
US	51716884	R2VWE4TGBNJ492	1573225789	991280088	The Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Perhaps The Best Book I've Ever Read	Without a doubt, &quot;The Color of Water&quot; is one of the most powerful books I've ever read.  When the book was recommended to me, I read it because I thought I'd learn something new about this Black Man's  life with a white mother.  As I do not know this experience personally, I  expected to learn of it, from a spectator's view.  What I learned was that  there is great commonality in the human experience -- the disenfranchised,  the poor, the oppressed.  Strong and very validating of my personal life  experience . . . Loved It!	1998-12-03
US	51716884	R3Q74KAP2LEY1V	038079487X	311612619	What Looks Like Crazy on an Ordinary Day (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	! ! ! !	Wow!. . . What a literary treat!  The characters are so real the story couldn't possibly be fiction.  I've always joked about not knowing if a book is fiction or non-fiction until I've read it and Cleage has proven my  point.  A well written and thoroughly told story of a life experience that  actually helps to sustain us all.  Courageous and daring, bold and  beautiful, powerful and humbling, angry and violent, passionate and loving.  Enough emotion to appear overwhelming and crazy. . . . but just an  ordinary day in the life for some of us.	1998-11-07
US	51716884	R195UUK4PZMM4W	0802135315	103497931	Equal Affections	Books	3	0	2	N	N	50 / 50 Chance You'll Enjoy It	Not a bad read.  The storyline kept me intersted; however  I'm not sure if that was because I kept thinking that there wourld be some really profound emotional connection with Danny and/or April on the next page. . . ., but  it never  happened.  By the time I finished the book I felt neither cheated  out of my time nor extremely rewarded for the effort.  We'll see how the  next book by Leavitt works for me.	1998-10-31
US	51716884	R1DFAXY2KAHMM5	0060916508	624509678	Their Eyes Were Watching God: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I look forward to reading more of Hurston 's work	Hurston does an excellent job of articulating the complexities of female  opression. She uses language and thought processes specific to African  American people during that time. Oddly, her writing style reminds me of  Shakespear in that they both use the language of the people  about whom  they write. Early English for Shakespear, Early Ebonics for Hurston.<br />This story is a wonderful piece of literary writing, it is poetic,  romantic, and symbolic of our ongoing desire to connect with a life long  partner with whom we can grow and expand to our full existence in the  universe.<br />An excellent book, we should grow up reading this one.	1998-10-07
US	51716884	REC0AEIZOGF5I	042513699X	153525079	Turtle Moon	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Sorry Alice, didn't like this one much at all. .. .	I kept expecting the book to get better, but it never achieved what  started out as an adult fairy tale with spiritual significance and mystical  influence.  There were only a couple of time that I felt sincerely moved by  a passage in the book. Its a good thing I read Here On Earh, and At Risk  before Turtle Moon or I may never have given Hoffman any more of my reading  time. This is a  good childrens's book (teens); however its mentally and  emotionally lacking for the mature reader.	1998-09-20
US	51716884	RL34CFBBF8ABN	0694519405	406344440	I Know This Much Is True (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Truely Reflective of the Rollercoaster Ride Called  Life!	How does one begin to express in words the emotional satisfaction derrived  from reading this book!  Wally Lamb is so very gifted. . . .  to be able to  capture the human spirit, psyche, and nature so completely is indeed a  precious gift.<br />The characters are lively and so very real.  I experienced  their pain and joy as if it were mine, and was rejoiceful when in the end,  what is true for Dominick is a universal truth that we all must come to  know.  I feel a little more complete having experienced this book!	1998-09-06
US	51716884	R2LAT4CMWDIPTK	0440328810	677958673	Giovanni's Room	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Food For The Soul. . .	This turned out to be an excellent book!  Filled with passion, love, desire, devastation.  All these emotions and more were spawn, fed, and flourished in Giovanni's room.  Powerfully written and eloquently told, the story draws in any reader who hass ever been a tennant in Giovanni's room (and we all hve if we're lucky!).  A definate must read.	1998-07-22
US	51716884	R6QHXHP2HV078	0553246895	275450879	The Heart of a Woman	Books	5	4	7	N	N	What A Lady!	I read the last sentence and smiled, wow, what a lady.  It is nearly impossible to believe that a person can live through such adversity and rise above it all. . .  . then again, that's been the story of African American people since our captivity and subsequent slavery in the United States.  Where did Maya get the strength to continue on, I asked myself, then I recalled my mothers struggle. . . continued struggle and I know that is through strong will, determination, and the all out grace of God that we are able to move forward in the face of such adversity. How fortunate Maya was to have been able to see the Motherland and come to know the struggles of the people of Africa while knowing and have experienced the struggle of African Americans.  Maya did an excellent job of identifying how the two struggles were different, and yet the same.<br />When I finished this book I felt, uplifted (I actually reread a copy of &quot;And Still I Rise&quot;), rejuvenated, exonerated,! !  educated, emancipated, knowing that here lives a African American who continues to rise . . . . and so shall I.  Thank You Maya.	1998-07-15
US	51716884	R1NJWUC0FI2P0O	0670878847	660269339	The Most Wanted	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent!	An excellent read.  Suspensful, romantic, sexy at times and realistic.  If I can learn as much about life, people, and love in my entire lifetime that Arley learn in her short 14 years, I'll be both grateful and certainly much wiser.  The best part about this book is that it reaches such a broad range of readers -- teenagers, adults, men, women. . . . This is the second book by Mitchard that I've read (The Deep End Of The Ocean was the first -- loved it!), can't wait for her next one!	1998-07-09
US	51716884	R5B8MI8J49PIW	037570504X	22478117	Breath, Eyes, Memory (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Just Barely An O.K. Read	An o.k read.  This was certainly one of those books that didn't live up to my expectations.  I guess if you're a woman -- a Hatian woman more specifically -- you are more likely to connect with this book.  I don't think the author did an adequate job of writing this story to reach a broader audience.  The least favorite of Oprah's book recommendations.	1998-06-28
US	51716884	R2WMQIYYIK5ORH	0517122707	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What A Great Movie This Would Be! Dom DeLouis as Ignatius	A very enjoyable and extremely funny read!  I found myself agreeing with some of Ignatius's wold view, even though extreme and at times totally paranoid . . . scary!  A Confederacy of Dunces is without a doubt the most entertaining book I've ever read.  This book has also done more to expand my vocabulary than any single book I've read.  Its almost too bad that this is my first comedy read, I'm sure nothing else will be able to measure up to this!	1998-06-25
US	51716884	R2FVLDI4ZBP12S	0425117383	806531540	At Risk	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A worthwhile read	Very well written, easy read.  Hoffman does an excellent job of characterizing issues of isolation experienced by Aids victims and fear experienced by those who know them.  I believe that the main character in the novel allows a wide range of people to get a little closer to AIDS issues without haveing to deal with issues suxual morality, homophobia or drug addiction. . . all issues the general public have a hard time confronting.  My initial reaction to the main character was taht Hoffman &quot;took the easy way out&quot;.  .. probably not wanting to offend the consertative right.  After finishing the book, I am now comfortable that the characters strenght, innocence and youth make it impossible for a reader not to learn something, feel something, perhaps even want to do something, for those who suffer with AIDS.  This is a easy enough read for teenagers and an excellent way to help educate them on AIDS.	1998-05-21
US	51716884	R1XMC1DQWR8ENO	0679457550	944864152	The Short History of a Prince : A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Life is a Drama . . . Live the role!	Rarely do I read a book that leaves me searching for words to describe its impact.  This is a wonderfully written story of love and loss, family and friends,life and death.  The book is filled with characters who are lively . . . each with his/her own story. . . each searching for their own truth, their own joy.  Life is indeed a drama, where the actors live their roles, not act them.  Very well done!	1998-05-14
US	51716884	R10NZJTKOJ5JR6	0375500510	337409677	Black and Blue: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Worthy Read	A vivid depiction of the inner struggles of a battered woman.  This is the type of book that could prompt a woman in an abusive relationship to leave. . . . that is my hope as I pass this book on to a relative in need of the courage and power to leave.  I would also hop that &quot;Black and Blue&quot; serves as a reminder to men who are not abusive of how devastating and destructive abuse can be on an entire family.  I would hope tht this knowledge alone is sufficient o prevent men from ever raising a harsh hand to a woman.  I commend survivors of sopusal abuse and Anna Quindlen for sharing their experience with the world.	1998-04-29
US	51716884	R1W39E0ULW4BW8	0679457836	48235446	The Gospel According to the Son	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Still The Greatest Stroy Ever Told!	Very well done, although its been done before. . .  Mailer does an excellent job of personifying the Christ spirit using modern day language and struggles.  HIs ability to articulate the conscious and struggles of the children on God, through the Christ character is uncanny.  This book was a joyful experience.	1998-04-21
US	51716884	R2LLHDSKB12X2R	0684829924	599604173	Dream Boy: A Novel	Books	2	3	11	N	N	Underdeveloped plot and characters	Grimsley did an adequate job with descriptive prose that helped to create teh scene within which the &quot;plot&quot; unfolds.  Howver, his focus on imagery appears to have detracted him from fully developing the characters and the plot. .  The books ending was disjointed. . almost as if it came from some other book.  This was my first read by this author. .  it doubt that i'll continue to read his work.	1998-04-11
US	51716884	R3OTAMSJ9N30RS	0425167313	184894886	Here on Earth (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	What are your prepared to do for love?	An excellent read. . . although it started slow, I found myself gettin greally wraped up in the various &quot;acts&quot; of love described in the novel.  Hollis and march's promise to love one another forever, their overwhelming attachment to one another.  I remmbmber thinking. ..&quot;how special&quot;, feeling . .. &quot;I wish I had such a love&quot;.  I got so  caught up in the &quot;acts&quot; of love, I totally wasn't expecting the acts of violence and abuse that were lurking in the wings. . . guess that's how it was for March as well.  Alice Hoffman did a wonderful job of showcasing the fact that loves comes in many flavors, its emotionally and physically overpowering (as in the case with March and Hollis), its a day to day concious and sacrificial effort (Louise in relationship to Bill), its secretative and fulfilling (Judith and Bill), its new, fresh, exciting (Gwen and hank), its cautious, smart and careful (Susie and Ed).  Its many things to different people.  If you can't be with the one you love. .  . perhaps it's better to love the one you're with.	1998-03-19
