US	51711171	R23SBX2SK7D10R	0521829496	318974310	Debating Design: From Darwin to DNA	Books	5	68	73	N	N	A Good, Respectful(!) Survey of Ideas	Dembski and Ruse's anthology grew out of a common desire to help clarify and understand the Intelligent Design (ID) debate; Dembski, a mathematician and philosopher, is one of the chief proponents of Intelligent Design, whereas Ruse, a prominent philosopher of biology, is a strong proponent of neo-Darwinism. This collection is noted for its balance and respectful tone among its many eminent contributors, both of which are generally lacking in one of the most hotly-debated topics in modern science.    Contributors from across the spectrum of positions regarding evolution, religion, and Intelligent Design were grouped into four main sections and an introductory session , which contains the editors' introduction and two brief essays on the history of the Intelligent Design movement. While those two essays are by opponents of ID, they do a good, respectful job of encapsulating some of the chief events and players in the movement.    Part I brings us to the meat of the debate, with several powerful critiques of ID. It begins with a historical piece on Darwinism's impact and development by AAAS president Francisco Ayala. Also notable is a critique of the ID movement's use of the bacterial flagellum, whose \\"irreducible complexity\\" the ID movement holds  cannot be explained by gradual evolution.  This piece was written by a practicing Catholic named Kenneth Miller--I was gratified that the ID vs. Darwinism debate was not being cast a purely science v. religion debate, and that in fact that there are  religious believers represented in this collection with a broad spectrum of perspectives and positions.    Part II is on \\"Complex Self Organization\\", with good articles by physicist and scientific popularizer Paul Davies and historian of science Paul Barham. Stuart Kauffman's article, which begins this section, is actually the introductory chapter of his book \\"Investigations\\", and so mentions many things but never discusses  anything in depth, being just an introduction. Whilequite disappointing, the other contributors in this section develop Kauffman's ideas as they explore whether biochemistry can generate complex systems (such as proto-cells and metabolic  networks) without intelligent intervention. This may be, conceptually speaking, the richest chapter in the anthology.    Part III, \\"Theistic Evolution\\": Various religious contributors propose philosophies that reconcile evolution and religion. Many of these contributors are as critical of ID as they are with the ultra-Darwinists like Dawkins. Of particular note is Michael Roberts' critique of ID and the fossil record of life on Earth.    Part IV, \\"Intelligent Design\\": finally, the ID theorists themselves, including Dembski and Behe, get the floor. Dembski and Behe's articles didn't overwhelm me with their persuasiveness, but did help me get a clearer idea of what they have to say. The strongest piece here is probably Baylor's on entropy and biological polymers, and the problems such calculations raise for the emergence of early life.     If one is looking for polemics against either position in this debate, or a knock-down argument one way or another, this book will disappoint you, as it seems to have done with a couple other reviewers. As with many debates, the debaters seem to talk past each other at points, but the book is full of citations, and has given me a good springboard for investigating controversies in evolution and the philosophy of biology. The book also presents a range of opinions and directions for future inquiry, rather than some artificially polarized argument with no room for a middle ground. For those reasons, plus the very civil tone amongst the debaters regarding an issue that can get both sides so worked up, I can give this collection five stars. I do not see a better survey of this debate being publish for some time.	2005-08-23
US	51711171	R202SFRKGPISGU	0130811327	796825178	Introduction to Analysis	Books	5	22	23	N	N	An Excellent Bridge to Theoretical Math for Scientists	I had trained as a physicist in college, and found this book useful when I began my PhD work in mathematics, where the way of thinking was just different enough to trip me up. My real analysis and Lebesgue integration class used the formidable classic \\"Introductory Real Analysis\\" by Kolmogorov and Fomin, and this book was a useful adjunct as I worked through the material for the class.<br /><br />The authors take a more explicitly numerical or equation-based approach to analysis than Kolmogorov and Fomin, who are more abstract and set-based. While this book does not go into topic Lebesgue integrals with anywhere near the depth of K&F, the appeal to numerical thinking is useful for helping someone in natural science get a handle on where the abstract math is going. When I read the authors' introduction, I was gratified to know that this book's approach stemmed from the travails that physics majors at MIT faced when they took real analysis!<br /><br />I found this book handy for the basics on the limits of sets and the Picard condition for ordinary differential equations. Its coverage of more advanced topics like Lebesgue integration is very light, but as an undergraduate text or as an adjunct for graduate students new to the field, it can be highly useful.	2005-01-03
US	51711171	RJNDAIZHL5S6O	0814620590	436949244	Mary, Mirror of the Church	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A Traditional, Ecumenical Understanding of Mary	Fr. Cantalamessa's book on Mary is unique in that he does not treat Catholic teaching on Mary defensively, as something to be protected from Protestant objections, but rather shows how Mary can be a symbol of unity, a common model of the Christian life for all Christians. And he manages to do this while explaining an orthodox, Catholic understanding of Mary's role in the Church. <br /> <br />The book is divided into three sections, examining Mary's role in Jesus' birth, in His death and resurrection, and lastly her role in Pentecost and the continuing life of the Church. Fr. Cantalamessa makes strong use of Scripture in laying out Catholic doctrine and dogma on Mary, giving the reader a good understanding of the Gospel's context for what we know of her, and thus providing a good bridge for Protestants who would distrust Catholic tradition and the writings of the saints. Also of particular interest is Cantalamessa's synthesis of homilies and writings by prominent Reformers like Luther, Calvin and Zwingli.  <br /> <br />To round out the ecumenical appeal, the book has several beautiful color photos of some Marian icons, which Fr. Cantalamessa has said greatly increased his understanding of Mary's life and relationship with her son. Combined with citations of the Eastern Fathers to demonstrate the historical roots of doctrines like the Immaculate Conception (or \\"panagia\\", \\"all holy\\", in Greek), provides a window into the Eastern Church's perspective on Mary.  <br />  <br />Fr. Cantalamessa obviously has a great devotion to Mary, but it is tempered with a recognition that the greatest purpose of contemplating Mary is so that we can imitate her as the model follower of her son, Jesus. He also acknowledges that there is no one single \\"right\\" devotion towards Mary, as it varies according to each individual's spiritual path, and this moderation goes far to help ease those who fear that being a good Catholic necessitates some undue, if not idolatrous, devotion towards the Blessed Virigin. His writing is well-organized and accessible, and is suffused with a spirit of fraternity and charity towards all Christians. This is an ideal introduction to Mariology.	2004-11-16
US	51711171	R321F8DBKHPZ2A	068481465X	563982708	Home Comforts: The Art and Science of Keeping House	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Perfect for busy people	My wife and I got this for our wedding, and it has been a very handy resource. Dr. Mendelson--an attorney and philosophy professor as well as mother and housekeeper--is rigorous in going over every aspect of house keeping, but also is aware that people are often busy with many other things at the same time. She does a beautifuly job of enunciating her overarching philosophy of keeping house in the first chapter: she does not keep a neat home out of mere obsessiveness, but so that she and her family can truly feel at ease in a safe, neat  living space. The result is a very balanced, readable book. I could see how housekeeping manuals making people roll their eyes at the author's obsessiveness, but Mendelson reaches her audience well.<br /><br />Of particular interest to me is that she covers health in the household: allergies, safe food handling, hygiene, child-proofing  are all treated in the book. I was surprised to see that she also has a chapter on slips and falls--these can happen to anyone, but in a nation where the elderly are the fastest growing segment of the population, this is something that we should be more aware of.	2004-09-25
US	51711171	R3RUGBJB0MIXAS	0940780496	180681941	Clinical Microbiology Made Ridiculously Simple, Edition 3	Books	4	142	148	N	N	Unorthdox, but it can be effective	When I received this book, I was not sure what to make of it. Rather than seriously examining key points of organisms with illustrations to show how mechanisms worked, the book is packed with mnemonics and weired cartoons meant to help you remember what you need to know for the boards (for instance, Chlamydia has a &quot;clam&quot; necklace; Salmonella is shown as a salmon hanging out and smoking a cigar in a gallbladder to remind you that's where chronic Salmonella carriers retain the bug).<br />I grew to appreciate these stupid cartoons, as I did remember stuff I would have otherwise forgotten. If you are burning out, this is a good resource!<br />This is not a real textbook, however. You get a guerilla introduction to some basics, but the presentation of material is not as systematic as a text. At the end of each chapter is a chart to summarize the information presented, but the font is tiny and I never bothered using it. <br />I would recommend checking this book out to see if the book's style works for you. If it does, this is a good way to study microbiology even if you are tired and sick of studying for Step I. If it does not, there are plenty of more standard texts and reviews to choose.	2004-06-26
US	51711171	R2F1A33XNUXFUC	0801867924	951164762	The Case against Assisted Suicide: For the Right to End-of-Life Care	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Cogent and Authoritative	Editors Kathleen Foley and Herbert Hendin note in their preface to The Case Against Assisted Suicide that much of the dialogue on physician-assisted suicide (PAS) involved one side invoking religious principles against assisted suicide, while the other proponents of PAS invoked feelings compassion and talk about autonomy. This book is a welcome change to that deadlock by investigating in non-sectarian language the very problematic nature of physician-assisted suicide. Even better, the primary contributions are from physicians in end-of-life care or disability advocates and hospice workers, giving the reader an intimate view of the realities of end-of-life care.    The book is divided into four sections:    The first section has an impressive line-up. Bioethicist Dan Callahan's essay on compassion and its limits undercuts some of the strongest arguments that PAS proponents make. He is joined by Yale Kamisar's legal critique of PAS, and also an essay on the patient-doctor relationship by Leon Kass, the head of the Presidential Committee of Bioethics.    The second section is the most disturbing as it examines the reality of physician assisted suicide in Oregon, the Netherlands, and during a period of time in the Northwest Territory of Australia. Every essay is written by one or two physicians who practice medicine in the country or state affected by assisted suicide. Running as a theme through all these accounts is the silence surrounding suicides, the squelching of meaningful discussion of suicide alternatives, and the lack of any real oversight.      Upon reading the second section, a PAS proponent may retort, \\"oh fine, the Dutch and the Oregonians have messed it up, so we'll just improve it in the future.\\" The third part of the book, however, has several articles that show that the problems in Oregon and elsewhere are symptomatic of inherent vulnerabilities in the disabled population. Diane Coleman, a disabled lawyer and founder of the disability organization Not Dead Yet, has a particularly good piece on the struggles of the disabled in America to obtain proper care and the threats posed to them by institutionalized suicide.    The fourth section has a brief history on the first modern hospice in London, and how its mission has involved, often from the experiences of their first patients. The last piece is by editor Kathleen Foley, who summarizes some of the current American initiatives on improving end of life care, and also how both physicians' and the public's views on death and its psychology have evolved, and where they need to improve.    The Case Against Assisted Suicide is a well-organized volume that brings together a very complicated issue and develops a powerful argument for how we need to practice medicine and care for some of society's most vulnerable members.	2004-06-01
US	51711171	R3ER2OWWKK7VI9	0781740274	643182737	Pathophysiology of Heart Disease: A Collaborative Project of Medical Students and Faculty (PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF HEART DISEASE (LILLY))	Books	5	8	9	N	N	&quot;The Bible&quot;	My classmates generally do not like buying books in their first two years of coursework, since we are issued coursenotes. I knew, however, that this book was a must-buy when people always made reference to it as &quot;the Bible&quot;.<br />This book is short and sweet, doing a great job covering basics like electrophysiology, the theory of the ECG, atheroscleorsis, coronary artery disease and MIs, congestive heart failure, and pharmacotherapy. One reviewer mentioned that this book will not let you just up and interpret ECGs, which is true. However, that takes quite a bit of practice and goes beyond this book's scope. What the book does do is provide a good explanation of some basics principles underlying the ECG's use that makes their interpretation a little more intuitive, rather than just looking at arbitrary squiggles.<br />This book is the real deal, and should be up on your shelf with other big names like Harrison's and Robbins.	2004-05-27
US	51711171	R2UIBPN1Q3OHUN	0892438916	32741788	Sacred Reading: The Ancient Art of Lectio Divina	Books	5	83	83	N	N	A Companion to the Scriptures and Church Fathers	I read this book during the first two weeks of Lent, and it has born fruit in helping me read Scripture more reverently.<br />Fr. Casey starts by contrasting modern literacy with the monastic experience: we are surrounded by words (e.g., wander around the immensity of Amazon's website!) and much of the content is in soundbites. We get quick news summaries, advertisements, and so forth, which can be often read in a few minutes or less. Medieval monasteries would often only have a relative handful of books, which were often hand-copied over a period of years. If the monastery were to get a new book, it had to be for the ages, of great importance.<br />Fr. Casey is quite balanced in that he does not suggest that the Medieval times were necessarily balanced--he is just as happy for modern ages as anyone--but says that we can learn from this older, slower way of reading. Following this perspective, he takes us through the discipline of lectio divina, &quot;sacred reading&quot;, and the pattern of slow, reflective reading.<br />The book challenges, as Casey is supportive of St. Benedict's maxim that once you select a book for lectio divina, that you follow through till the end, and not switch books in the middle. This is to respect that Biblical texts are often structured in unfamiliar ways, and the full meaning does not come out till you finish the book. It is also to stay humble: we are not going to cut off God's word when it is convenient, but let it take us where it wants while we journey with a particular book of Scripture.<br />That said, there is an entire chapter on various distractions and barriers that people may encounter while prayerfully reading Scripture--Fr. Casey is clear that this book is not Gospel itself, and that different people will need to adapt his ideas to their own lives. Like a good athletic training, he wants us to push ourselves and grow, but does take into account individual circumstances and limitations. <br />Casey gives a number of references for good study Bible editions and other English-language books and commentaries, giving one some concrete starting positions as well as good general advice.<br />On the whole, I found him a very balanced, friendly guide, and recommend this to people who want to read the Bible more deeply and prayerfully.	2004-03-15
US	51711171	RZWQRJB5X25H5	0819874108	212262710	Theology of the Body Explained: A Commentary on John Paul II's "Gospel of the Body"	Books	5	110	115	N	N	Excellent Accessibility and Depth	Christopher West is a well-established name as a popularizer of John Paul II's Theology of the Body. This book differs from West's other works in being a systematic commentary on the pope's 129 noontime talks on the meaning of the human body according to Catholic Christianity, which we given over five years early in his pontificate (1979-1984).<br />The organization of the book is impeccable. The book is divided into six \\"cycles\\", which are formed according to the main themes of John Paul's talks, which I list below:<br />1. \\"Original Man\\": Adam and Eve before the Fall, and how their integrity as individuals and in their relations with each other and God contrast with our imbalanced, Fallen condition.<br />2. \\"Historical Man\\": our current, fallen state. West explains the Pope's penetrating analysis of how exactly sin touches our lives.<br />3. \\"Eschatological Man\\": a stirring vision of how our form is divinized (which reminds me of Eastern theology's emphasis on the Transfiguration) and how marriage is consummated with our perfect communion with God in heavean.<br />4. \\"Celibacy for the Kingdom\\": one might wonder how celibacy fits into the picture after the Pope does so much to elevate the dignity of marriage, but in fact here West shows how celibacy and marriage complement each other.<br />5. \\"The Sacramentality of Marriage\\": this treats John Paul's study of St. Paul, including a wonderful explanation of an unpopular phrase from Ephesians: \\"Wives, be submissive to your husbands...\\". <br />6. \\"Love and Fruitfulness\\": West looks into John Paul's closing reflections on Humanae Vitae, the encyclical of Paul VI that raised a fury among Catholics who were disappointed by the papacy's continued stance against artificial contraception. <br />The cycles are in turn broken down into sections, each of which generally comments on one or two of John Paul's noontime audiences. Everything is scrupulously referenced not only to the Theology of the Body talks (which Pauline Press also publishes) by also to the Catechism and pertinent encyclical letters on sexuality and the human person. At the end of each cycle, West also has a review section, summing up the key points of that particular cycle. <br />In this book, West recounts how the Theology of the Body had helped him heal from a long period of being a lapsed, worldly Catholic, and this sense of wonder and freedom permeates the book. There is food for the mind and the heart, as I have grown to appreciate the dignity of marriage, celibacy, and the human person in a way I would never have expected just a few years ago. The very methodical organization and annotation of this volume might lead one to suspect that this book is dry, but it in fact reads wonderfully. In the space of a few weeks I read the entire book, in spite of a busy schedule as a medical student. <br />While it is best to read this book along with the original talks of the pope themselves, this commentary could be read on its own with great profit, as I have done. I am working on the original talks, but I read way ahead with West's book, loving every minute of it, and shall return to John Paul's masterpiece with that much more understanding and appreciation.<br />Professor West has done the world a great service in promoting John Paul II's magnificent celebration and defense of the human person.	2004-02-05
US	51711171	R3BLVXGJVTE5DO	0268034710	756962890	Modern Physics and Ancient Faith	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Essential Reading for Students of Science and Religion	Dr. Barr's book lays the key points of traditional debates between theists and materialists' on how discoveries in physics relate to or actively disprove religious beliefs.<br />His greatest achievement is how he stays balanced and grounded. He shows how religion is compatible with science, but does not get bogged down trying to show how a given set of scientific discoveries *proves* a particular item of religious doctrine. Many Christians have gotten into trouble for this since if they rest their religious belief on a certain piece of scientific evidence, they will be grave trouble when further scientific progress may render that evidence they used obsolete.<br />While at least one reviewer has accused Barr of making straw men out of the materialist philosophers, I found him fair. At one point in the beginning of the book he wrote summarization of a materialistic case against religion. The wording was rather sweeping, and the footnote said that while this denunciation was written by Barr himself, it summarizes many anti-religion arguments. He does not directly cite any of the sources that he had in mind, which is unfortunate, especially in the light of his otherwise excellent documentation. However, when Barr goes into individual arguments, he documents everything well, and takes the materialists seriously.<br />The key value of the book is that it helps clarify what many of the science v. religion debates are really arguing about, and the hefty endnotes will help the reader continue on his own explorations. It makes a reliable starting point. Too frequently I have gotten into debates with people of differing religious beliefs (or lack thereof) where we wind up talking past each other.This book helps cure that. When asked what he would do to help his country, Confucius said that he would first have everyone agree on their definitions.<br />This book helps us agree on our definitions, or at the very least, know how they differ and understand what the other side is saying.	2004-01-09
US	51711171	R2CC9P06CNMYRT	0911726071	182974380	Byzantine Daily Worship	Books	5	19	20	N	N	An Ideal Resource for Byzantine Christians	I have prayed the Divine Office in the Latin Rite for several years now, and have recently prayed the Byzantine Divine Office. In looking for a copy of the Byzantine Divine Office, I found this book to be unequalled for its depth of liturgical prayer. I was also gratified to see that this book was received by both Catholic and Orthodox patriarchs, and hope that this is a sign of things to come.<br />The daily prayers of the Church (e.g., evening prayer [Vespers], and morning prayer [Matins]) provide one a great way to infuse one's daily activities with God and a greater prayerful spirit. Sometimes the book gets a little confusing as one adapts the prayers for the differing feast days and seasons, but the core of the prayers is pretty straightforward, so you can work on them and then try to adapt the prayers for the seasons and feasts days as you get more confident. Enlisting the aid of a priest or religious is another possibility if you feel lost.<br />The book also has the Divine Liturgies in it and also the common prayer service for the dead and various devotions like the Marian Akathist. I was amazed at how much the book was able to contain and yet keep a readable font and reasonable size!<br />On a final note, Byzantine Daily Worship has great explanations of the theology behind Byzantine liturgy and prayer (which are bound together inseparably), which are particularly welcome for this Roman Catholic who is still learning more about the East.	2003-11-05
US	51711171	R33C0T2EL777NW	1882926633	399200893	On the Unseriousness of Human Affairs: Teaching, Writing, Playing, Believing, Lecturing, Philosophizing, Singing, Dancing	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Humane and Challenging	The Unseriousness of Human Affairs is a title almost certainly written to give the modern reader a jolt-what, is not everything I work for pretty serious? Our country, my job, my family, these are not serious?<br />Prof. Schall shows us how leisure and play is in fact crucial to our nature as human beings, that our learning and growth develops through something that is spontaneous, as he demonstrates by pointing out that the Greek and Latin terms for school (skole and otium, respectively) can also mean \\"leisure\\". So begins an intellectual romp that includes Jesus, Aristotle, Plato, Socrates, Aquinas and G.K. Chesterton along with some more unlikely companions, like Robert Pirsig's _Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance_ (good book, by the way), Charlie Brown, and Friederich Nietzsche. The latter, while a powerful voice in his own right, is not someone you would expect a rather cheerful Christian like Prof. Schall to cite, but in fact he makes great use of Nietzsche's observation that dissipation is the result not of joy but of joylessness, which is a key point in the book. <br />The result is a Christian humanism that is intelligible to people of all walks of life and beliefs, and points to a learning that is engaged with the classics and the great, hard questions of life, but does so in a pleasurable, positive way. Many modern figures have commented that Christians (or perhaps religious folk in general) are distracted from solving this world's problems by the promise of an afterlife in Paradise. John Lennon's song \\"Imagine\\" is a good example of this thinking. Prof. Schall shows, however, that the very transcendence in the Judeo-Christian worldview in fact gives us what needed to handle those problems that Lennon et al. rightfully rail against. <br />In the middle of this book, Prof. Schall pays tribute to the teachers he never met, such as Augustine and Hilaire Belloc, and I must say that he has become a teacher that has touched my life, though I have not met him. God willing, perhaps I shall, but this book is profoundly enriching and inspiring, and I trust he will influence many more lives through it.	2003-01-09
US	51711171	R3RKDDMLJVBSYV	0683304925	343426868	Color Atlas of Anatomy: A Photographic Study of the Human Body	Books	5	64	64	N	N	A First Class Resource for Anatomy Students	One of the first things that one realizes during anatomy lab is that the paintings in your textbook don't really reflect the reality of an embalmed corpse. Arteries are not conveniently painted bright red, nor are nerves colored a nice polite yellow. <br />The Color Atlas of Anatomy does a fantastic job of helping one translate the color drawings from the big anatomy textbooks into the lab by providing high-quality labelled photos of model dissections by expert anatomists. Think you have the hypogastric nerve in your abdomenal wall but aren't too sure what it's supposed to look like? My partner and I were in just that position and the Color Atlas helped us go from the idealized material of our lecture notes and Netter's Atlas to realities of our cadaver.<br />In addition to the photos, I found the schematic drawings to be a nice way to keep in mind the general organization of basic membranes and organs in the body, and the MR and X-Ray scans were useful as well in learning how to read radiograms and MRI images. This book does a great job of teaching you what anatomic specimens really look like, and help you appreciate the great beauty and elegance of the human body.	2002-09-14
US	51711171	R149TCKUH52X9P	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A Great Primer for Muslim-Western Relations	Bernard Lewis' \\"What Went Wrong\\" is a short summary of his extensive work on the Muslim world. The book is short, but Lewis makes excellent use of space in that he shows how Islam, especially in Turkey and Persia (now Iran), has responded to West for the past 1300 years.<br />At first, Muslim scientific achievements far surpassed Europe, but during the Renaissance Europe made explosive gains. Islam, however, did not notice until the once backward Europeans were already knocking on its gates with superior firearms and communications. This is where the Lewis' title comes into play, as he tries to assess why the West was not only able to catch up to, but also far surpass the Muslim world in technical and commercial skills.<br />Lewis looks at all aspects of culture and science, starting with the obvious ones like the military and the economy, but also with music, timekeeping, and women's rights. You truly learn more about your own culture by looking at others, as Lewis compares and contrasts the various strength and blind spots of Muslim and Christian societies.<br />The book's small size makes this an excellent choice for someone who wants to learn more about Islam and its conflicts with Western thought. The American media has struggled mightily to assess the origins of fundamentalism while toeing the line of cultural pluralism. Lewis is honest and sympathetic to his subject (this is not some cheap polemic meant to capitalize on 9/11 hysteria), and his long study of Muslim civilization gives him tremendous authority. The book is short, and did originate with some lectures, but has a solid bibliography and is very accessible. With this book under your belt, you can readily branch out to more in-depth studies.<br />For a curious American citizen (or any world citizen) who wants to know more about Islam's relationship with the West, I heartily recommend this book, which promises to begin a more productive dialogue on Western-Muslim relations.	2002-05-28
US	51711171	R1FSRGU4YGMVP7	039304825X	676328064	Johann Sebastian Bach: The Learned Musician	Books	5	85	88	N	N	A Great Book on Bach's Life and Influence	J.S. Bach has been my longtime favorite classical composer, but while I knew he was one of the most influential composers in history, I never quite knew why. Moreover, he always seemed to have a tacit reputation as being rule-bound and stern, unlike the more dynamic, perhaps more charismatic, figures of Mozart and Beethoven (the latter's horrible temper notwithstanding). Cristoph Wolff's book has at last provided me with a fuller picture of Bach and his influence.<br />The subtitle \\"The Learned Musician\\" sets a primary theme for the work, namely Bach as the scholar-musician, who was able to pass rigorous theology exams in Latin and whose mastery of organ building was a significant achievement of engineering, math and acoustics, to say nothing of raw musical genius. A motif that crops up in this book is the comparison between Bach and Newton (which was made in Bach's time). Bach thought that there were rules of causality in canons just like there is causality in Nature, and used other musical pieces to explore theological concepts. Musical science is no mere metaphor applied by Wolff to Bach, but is something that the composer himself took very serious, and this was realized even by some of his contemporaries. Likewise Wolff also points out that this does not mean that Bach was some soulless theoretician either. Rather, Bach's work worked within rules of composition, but also broke and surpassed them when necessary. Bach refused to divorce theory from practice, so his collections of music like the Well-Tempered Clavier and the Art of the Fugue served to show how a particular form of music (e.g., the keyboard or the fugue) could be applied in just about any combination imaginable. These compositions were theoretical statements, albeit ones without words. Wolff does not get too bogged down in musical terms: this layman did struggle periodically, and I would understand more if I were a musician, but a lack of music theory would not destroy this books value to you.<br />Throughout the book Wolff shows how Bach's methodical perfectionism formed a powerful combination when joined with Bach's surprisingly passionate, joyful life. Just as his music was rigorous, Wolff also points out the profound, genuine emotion that goes into them. He also writes about some of Bach's comic cantatas--one in particular was written for a coffeehouse, and was written on coffee addiction. This did much to endear Bach to this college graduate's heart!<br />Just as important, Wolff presents Bach's musical odysseys within the context of his personal life. Troubles and triumphs with jobs, Bach's family life and personal anecdotes appear throughout the book with a special chapter at the end also dedicated to Bach's later home life. We learn of a man who always entertained guests despite a brutal work schedule, and who also managed to find time to buy his wife singing birds and flowers. Much of his life would sound quite familiar in America (e.g., rebellious sons, moving to a city with a better-paying job, etc.), and does much to remind us that Bach is a man, not some musical force of nature. <br />In the end, we have a picture of a man who used his art to explore nature and God, but did so with joy and while surrounded with a family to support and superiors to placate in the workplace. Now I have a foundation for appreciating some of his works that I never studied before, namely Bach's Masses and cantatata, and my appreciation for other works. I had previously read and enjoyed Douglas Hofstadter's _Godel, Escher, Bach_ (which I also recommend), and now I can why Hofstadter chose Bach to help him explore the nature of intelligence in both man and computers. Bach was truly a sort of scientist or natural philosopher, and Wolff lets you appreciate how Bach was both a philosopher and composer of beautiful music.	2002-05-14
US	51711171	R1OJ2ABHI0RBF	0060653019	759467388	Miracles	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Lewis Dispels Yet More Myths about Religion	Miracles is one of Lewis' longer apologetic works, and I think, perhaps the most complicated. This is not because Lewis has lost the wonderful, taut, reasoned writing that people have grown to expect of him, but rather because people's views on miracles can be terribly hard to unknot. This, I think, is also the most purely philosophical work he wrote, though that should not scare anyone away, as he lays out everything in a very clear, readable way.<br />Lewis starts with a bang, in that he shows that miracles and the uniformity of natural laws are in fact bound together. He turns the materialists' (or Naturalists', as he calls them) own guns on them by showing that Reason cannot be accounted for in science--I should also point out that these objections have also been raised by professional philosophers in epistemology and ethics, but Lewis is the only person to raise them for a wider audience. I wish I had read this book earlier, when I was first encountering David Hume, as C.S. Lewis in this part of the book exposes the philosophical sleight-of-hand Hume used to \\"disprove\\" miracles.<br />With this, C.S. Lewis then addresses religions which state that God does not work miracles because He does not see fit to interfere with creation and a variety of other bad metaphors and misconceptions that have cropped up. I continue to wonder at Lewis' clarity, and his understanding of the modern mind which allows him to diagnose its fallacies so well.<br />Academics and many other modern citizens do not question the possibility of miracles, or at any rate adhere to some faulty reason for denying their existence. I hope this book can help shake that up and get people talking about this issue with greater clarity.	2002-05-11
US	51711171	RQRBWA4YQN69S	006018891X	709991744	The Man Who Broke Napoleon's Codes	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Good Story about an Unsung Hero	Mark Urban has managed to excavate a real unsung hero from the great campaigns against Napoleon, George Scovell, a tradesman turned soldier and master cryptographer.<br />The real value of this tale is that it shows the British army evolving into modern warfare. Scovell was a commoner, and as an officer had to fight traditional practices which dictated that nobles could buy commissions into the Army at the expense of lower-born officers. Scovell was a technical or \\"scientific\\" soldier, trained in the new Royal Military College at Wycombe, and Urban's witty, intelligent writing gives one a good picture of the British military culture and its growing pains at the time of Napoleon. The only addition I would suggest would be to give more context to Scovell's Spanish adventures: there are jumps in the chronology which are sometimes confusing to those who are not very up on their Napoleonic history (like me). This may be more of an American complaint, as we are not as concerned with Bonaparte as Europeans were and are, but a brief paragraph here or there might have helped a lot as we navigate the years in the book.<br />Scovell started out as a minor player the dark early years of the Peninsular Wars, but once the British and their Spanish allies began to regularly capture encoded French messages, Scovell's methodical mind and genius for language come to the fore. Most people do not think of code-breaking as being particularly interesting, but Urban does a good job of teaching one the basics and making it interesting. Code-breaking after all is much like solving a crossword puzzle or some word game, albeit for very high stakes. Urban also tells you about the marshals and family of Napoleon, the men who wrote those letters which Scovell cracked, so both Scovell's work and his enemies come alive. <br />This story is important because it shows how the world was evolving into our own modern age. In WWII, breaking codes was central to Allied efforts in both the Pacific and European theatres, and nowadays cryptography and personal security are daily concerns on the Internet. In fighting Napoleon, Wellington made use of Spanish guerillas--guerilla warfare, of course, was quite important to the 20th Century and to the Afghanistan conflict of the 21st. And last but not least, Napoleon himself was the a sort of prototype for the dictators of WWII and the Cold War. Scovell was on the leading edge of modern warfare, and in learning his story we understand our own world a little better.<br />Scovell was largely unknown to historians before Urban's book, but having read about him, I think we need to know more about him and how warfare changed in his time. Fortunately, with Urban's writing, this is more for fun than a task!	2002-04-27
US	51711171	R1W4UL6BFQRAXO	0195094662	51016248	The Theory of Knowledge: A Thematic Introduction (American History)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Short and Sweet Intro. to Epistemology	I came to epistemology relatively late, but since it asks how we know things, as both a scientist and as a Christian, I have grown to consider this one of the most compelling fields in philosophy.<br />This book has helped me along considerably. For a collaboration between three philosophers, the taut, cogent writing in this book is particularly impressive. The present all the key debates in modern epistemology, their roots, and then give you suggested readings at the end, so if something catches your fancy,you'll know where to look. And that sums it up: this is a fantastic introduction to epistemology.	2002-04-06
US	51711171	R3CH29EGSINS2C	0060652942	472936459	The Abolition of Man	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A Magnificent Work of Ethics and Social Commentary	Though best-known as a Christian apologist, Lewis' Abolition of Man has an appeal to an audience outside of Judeo-Christianity as well as within.<br />Lewis takes on those who want to rewrite morality, and for that matter, master and change human nature (hence the title). The various movements for this have changed names and some details, but from David Hume to modern-day sociolobiologists and Peter Singer, we can see a continuity of people who want to proclaim a new moral order (but at the cost of of some aspect of our humanity).<br />Lewis neatly dissects these would-be revolutionaries and show how any attempt to rewrite human nature must occur within the context of Nature and natural law, and that the new morals that these revolutionaries proclaim are in fact distorted, mutilated echoes of what Lewis dubs the Tao, which is a common morality written in human nature and shared by all the great faiths, philosophies and cultures. In the appendix, Lewis has selections from the great sagas, scriptures and philosophers showing how the Taoist, Confucian, Greco-Roman, Old Norse, Hindu, American Indian, and Judeo-Christian cultures all have a common morality, and while Lewis allows that these ways of life are not identical, they do point to some natural set of laws which humans should follow.<br />The end result is a beautiful critique of moral relativism and the more dehumanizing philosophers and pundits of modern times. In the 1-2 hours it took to go through this book (though I look forward to returning to it and pondering some parts of the book further), this has become one of my favorite Lewis books.	2002-03-17
US	51711171	R3D1FGPB1MKRKQ	0819814482	403659278	Christian Prayer: The Liturgy of the Hours (Prayer and Inspiration)	Books	5	86	87	N	N	A Great Devotion for Christians	I am a layman who has been praying the office for about three years now, and have found that it does help you establish a prayerful rhythmn throughout the day and keep you mindful of God and your fellow Christians.<br />This book has morning, daytime, evening and night prayers, with a compressed Office of Readings (you'll need the 4-volume Breviary for the full Office). It can be a little hard to get started with the Liturgy of the Hours, and some people may get frustrated. I'd suggest finding someone to help you get started--priests, deacons, and religious (e.g., nuns and brothers)all say the Liturgy, and some laymen too. Keep in mind that the Liturgy of the Hours has its roots in the Hebrew tradition of praying seven times a day, so this is a way to pray like Jesus and the earliest Christians.<br />While traditionally the Liturgy of the Hours has been considered more the domain of priests and religious, I think it can help satisfy a much wider need. A lot of people (including myself) have a lot of respect for the rigorous prayer life of Muslims, who pray five times a day--and I think many want to imitate that discipline as well. This is a very old Christian discipline that may help people satisfy that desire, and I hope that more people will discover the Liturgy of the Hours.	2002-03-12
US	51711171	RN8GILKLY0IQK	1851822674	12870620	Swimming Against the Tide	Books	5	26	27	N	N	An eclectic, thought-provoking collection	Editor Angela Kennedy notes in the beginning of this book that many pro-life feminists have either by stifled by the mainstream feminists, or have fallen away from the feminist movement altogether as a result of their disenchantment. As someone who thinks women should have equal treatment as a matter of course, but has been alienated by the tone of mainstream American feminism, I certainly saw where she was coming from. This book seeks to bring some of those marginalized voices out into the open.<br />This is an eclectic collection of nine essays on abortion and feminism along with an introduction and an afterword by Angela Kennedy. The writers hail from Ireland, Britan and the USA, and share their reflections on abortion that are often more of a first-person, narrative style than in the form of persuasive arguments. <br />The topics vary widely, from Mary Krane Derr's historical essay on feminism's pro-life roots, \\"A Lost Source of Strength and Power\\", to Ann Farmer and Ali Browning's respective essays on how socialism and vegetarianism relate to abortion. These latter two are particularly interesting, as Farmer's essay discusses how abortion rights have stifled other attempts to help women. While Farmer writes specifically on the abortion issue as it has come about in Britain, it isn't hard to see parallels with the abortion issue in other countries. Browning's essay was refreshing in that I know or know of a fair number of pro-choice vegetarians (a frightening, but strangely humorous contradiction), and she does a good job of calling vegetarians to reassess their opinions. My main gripe is that while Browning specifically reject's Peter Singer's extremely pro-abortion, pro-animal stance, her own stance is rather similar, in that it eliminates the distinction between people and animals on the grounds that we can both feel pain. I'm glad she opposes Singer, but I think has granted him too many of his own utilitarian points.<br />The final essay is Catherine Spencer's \\"Obstinate Questionings\\", on her own experience with abortion, whose reflections will haunt you for some time after reading it. Combined with Rachel Mac Nair's \\"Is Abortion Good for Women?\\", earlier in the book, the reader is given a good introduction to Post Abortion Syndrome's effect on women who abortion (and even how abortion psychologically damages abortion practioners). This is a vitally important subject since even many pro-lifers assume that while abortion is fatal to the unborn child, it is a neutral, or even beneficial procedure for the expectant mother. This is a disastrous assumption which must be challenged, which Mac Nair and Spencer ably execute.<br />Aside from these highlights, other writers discuss the abortion issue's relationship to how the disabled are perceived (written by a wife of a man with spina bifida and hydrocephalus), and more general analyses of how abortion has affected the feminist movement. <br />For those who are estranged from feminism because of bioethical issues, or are trying to develop a more complete picture of Western feminism, or are having a hard time fitting in with the pro-life movement, this is a great book to have.	2002-02-27
US	51711171	R1YWUKJGYQKQZ7	0198750544	286965387	Free Will (Oxford Readings in Philosophy)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Has some very good essays	Freedom and determinism is one of the most troubling questions in philosophy, since if determinism is both true and incompatible with moral responsibility, nothing is unethical. The class I took on this topic was one of the most challenging courses in college, and this book has a great range of authors who provided some inventive and challenging views on this. I'm particularly interested in P. Strawson's essay in this book, where he claims that responsibility does not depend on freedom at all, and Nagel's essay on moral luck, where he talks about how people in different times in history have greater moral decisions to make than other people, and how this impinges on our freedom (e.g., someone in Nazi Germany has greater burdens than someone in America in the 1980s). The reading is provoking, and brings to mind Socrates' statement that he was the wisest of men because he alone knew that he knew nothing. I highly recommend this book.	2002-02-18
US	51711171	R2GYUL4TY8VHXI	0521424631	406796613	A Practical Guide to Data Analysis for Physical Science Students	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The best teacher of stats I've had	I have taken a few physics labs at this point and have seen my share of appendices on statistics in the back of the lab manuals. They taught me about how to plug in the numbers and told me a little bit about why the equations mattered, but little else.<br />This slim, inexpensive book has done a magnificent job about teaching you not only how to do the math (it includes problems and has solutions in the back) but also how to think about different types of experiment error, and where it is appropriate to use certain equations or error-propagation approximations. If you ever have trouble with basic lab statistics, or are just getting started as a science major, this is a great book to have.	2002-02-13
US	51711171	R3ICTN9TFY7K2Y	0312879105	319536022	Arslan	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A Very Compelling, Underappreciated Classic	Orson Scott Card introduced me to \\"Arslan\\" in one of his books, and he marvelled how Engh was able to create Arslan, a vile character that you get to know and grow to sympathize with.<br />The story begins with Franklin Bond, a Southern Illinois principal whose town is invaded by Arslan after the surrender of the United States and is made into a new capital. Bond becomes a governor of the county and watches the turmoil of his fellow citizens. In the meantime, he forms a strange friendship with Arslan, who always deals with Bond in a strangely respectful manner. Arslan even gives Bond a chance to kill him, because in Arslan's predatorial philosophy, no victory should be without risk. There is a catch: Arslan's soldiers will annihilate Bond's town if Arslan dies, and Bond would have very little time to evacuate the townsmen before the soldiers would realize what happened and begin the massacre. This was one of the most wrenching scenes, because you cry out to Bond \\"kill him\\", but Arslan's threat gives Bond cold feet. This is one of the first of many times where Engh shows how Arslan's cruel genius twists people's wills to his own.<br />The story's perspective later alternates with Hunt Morgan, an adolescent and student of Bond's who is victimized by Arslan and then turned into a servant--Morgan's relationship with Arslan becomes one of the most complicated in the book, as Arslan both manipulates and befriends(?) the youth.<br />These two men show us how our civilization could have been ruined by a no-name Third World dictator, and Engh's eye for human weaknesses and strengths makes this a believable tale that leave you wondering.	2002-02-12
US	51711171	R2HVM3HOXLM9DS	069108923X	461481039	One True God: Historical Consequences of Monotheism.	Books	5	33	37	N	N	Provoking, refreshingly honest	Rodney Stark has done much to dispel my natural-science prejudices against sociology with this very well-written book about something that many, if not most, Americans take for granted: monotheism. <br />Stark goes over all the basics: why people choose a faith, the nature of monotheism as opposed to polytheism, and the history of Judaism, Christianity and Islam. The historical perspectives are particularly handy in these troubled times, as Stark is particularly interested in why religious violence breaks out. Accounts of interfaith violence have been particularly in the foreground of our consciousness with several books on Catholicism (especially the papacy) and anti-Semitism, and above all, the Taliban and al-Qaeda. Much ink has been spent deciphering the relationship with Islam proper and fundamentalism, and this book should give people some much-needed perspective on this haunting, vital question. Moreover, Stark devotes an entire chapter to contemporary trends in monotheistic faiths and their relationships not only with each other but also with the secular elite in America--Stark's honesty and humor in treating this touchy subject was a real treat to read.<br />My main beef with Stark is his portrayal of religious conversion as a rational, economic decision. He lays it out in Chapter 1: people worship a God because they think that deity will bring good things to them. Now, I'm all for intercessory prayer and getting divine help, but when I've seen genuine converts, they convert because they decide that a faith is true and that they love God and want to know him better. I don't think any religion worth its salt would look well on someone who just wanted to buy off God with some worship in order to get some help in return. <br />Despite this faulty view of religious conversion, I think Stark is a very honest, very engaging writer with a very important story to tell. He engages all the examined faiths in this book with great respect and empathy, which I find a rare commodity these days. This book is highly recommended.	2002-01-21
US	51711171	RIQIN3EZ1NIG3	0916211541	202457517	Rifts World Book 2: Atlantis	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Could Have Been Better	I was really excited to learn about Atlantis in the Rifts main book and looked forward to an intricate, exotic realm. I was left slightly cold.<br />Rifts Atlantis is the heart of a massive alien empire which thrives on a slave trade, including many unfortunate human and humanoid races. This makes Atlantis could be a bad idea for greenhorn PCs, because if they act up, the heat will be on them in no time. If you do run an Atlantean campaign, you have to be careful in setting up the game balance.<br />On the other hand, there is a great variety of new OCCs, RCCs, and magic, including Splugorthian biomagic (biotechnology meets magic, rather like a technowizard, although this stuff is much more powerful than a technowizard). There is quite a bit of fodder for GMs, and this alone may recommend the game to you.<br />My chief gripe is that with all the new gear and character classes, we have more of a sourcebook than a worldbook. In the Vampire Kingdoms book, we had a map of Ciudad Juarez which showed buildings of note and the turfs of the various gangs. We have some general descriptions of the Atlantean cities, but nothing that really does justice to them. I really think that such a big, advanced and decadent society should have had a deeper treatment, at least for the capital city of Splynn. <br />In short, if you buy this expecting learn about Atlantis, you may not get all that you want to learn (I have, however, heard that there is a worldbook specifically for the Slave Market in Splynn, so perhaps they do justice to the continent after all). If you want new baddies and technology to supplement a campaign in perhaps North America or Europe (i.e., a Splugorthian party is scouting out human settlements or advising demons on how to fight the CS or NGR), this has a lot of stuff.	2002-01-05
US	51711171	R2XZ5EWHR4EUUO	0262582082	450629912	The Human Embryonic Stem Cell Debate: Science, Ethics, and Public Policy (Basic Bioethics)	Books	3	13	14	N	N	It's a start, but where's the debate?	Holland et al. created a good introduction to the public policy and science behind the current embryonic stem cell research (ESCR) debate, but while this book has &quot;debate&quot; in its title, there was little material disagreement between most of the contributors. A more robust, representative exchange of ideas would have made this book 5-star material.<br />The book is divided into several themes.The first three chapters are on the basic science and history of stem cell research, and the editors' choice of contributors is impeccable: they include James Thomson, who first isolated human embryonic stem cells, and Thomas Okarma, president and CEO of Geron Corp., which is the private firm that has spearheaded the development of Thomson's discoveries.<br />The second section segues from history to public policy and ethics, including analyses of the National Bioethics Advisory Committee's report on stem cells in 1999. This by and large was a good introduction to how the government, and specifically the Clinton administration, began to respond to stem cells. Erik Parens has a good article on how people tried to differentiate between the morality of experimenting on embryos from IVF clinics and embryos made specifically for research, and a few other dilemmas stemming from current human embryonic stem cell (hES) sources and protocols.<br />We then go into the third section, which contains religious perspectives on ESCR. This is where I found the term &quot;debate&quot; a misnomer, as for the exception of Gilbert Meilaender, a Protestant thelogian, all the religious commentators tried to show how their traditions could tolerate, if not actively approve of, ESCR. Now I know that many religious people approve of ESCR, but the deafening silence on the opposition's part (excepting Dr. Meilaender's rather short piece) concerns me. Ironically, in the following section, sociologists Paul Root Wolpe and Glenn McGee note that the majority of the ESCR dialogue has been within a scientific community with an active interest in promoting ESCR. This seems to be just the case in this book.<br />The fourth chapter is a public policy section, with the aforementioned good essay by Wolpe and McGee on the nature of the ESCR debate.  The essays treat issues like whether pressure will be exerted on women in fertility clinics to donate unused embryos to labs, whether the poor will get stem cell therapy, government oversight, and several other practical concerns that must be addressed if one promotes ESCR and any future applications it may bring. A few essays bear particular note: throughout the debates on ESCR in past three years 1999, I didn't hear much of the minority or feminist viewpoint on ESCR, so the opinions of Suzanne Holland (who appears earlier in Section II), Margaret McLean, and Cynthia Cohen were particularly handy. Thomas Shannon had some good points about whether the ESCR funding would deprive people of more basi public health programs.<br />On the whole, this is a useful book, but I suggest that in addition to reading the thoughts in this volume, you should check out Richard Doerflinger, the research ethics group Do No Harm or some of the others who oppose embryonic research. If this book were to do justice to both sides, it would be a truly first-class resource.	2002-01-04
US	51711171	R1S2TE3SG2952F	0262582082	450629912	The Human Embryonic Stem Cell Debate: Science, Ethics, and Public Policy (Basic Bioethics)	Books	3	28	28	N	N	It's a start, but where's the debate?	Holland et al. created a good introduction to the public policy and science behind the current embryonic stem cell research (ESCR) debate, but while this book has &quot;debate&quot; in its title, there was little material disagreement between most of the contributors. A more robust, representative exchange of ideas would have made this book 5-star material.<br />The book is divided into several themes.The first three chapters are on the basic science and history of stem cell research, and the editors' choice of contributors is impeccable: they include James Thomson, who first isolated human embryonic stem cells, and Thomas Okarma, president and CEO of Geron Corp., which is the private firm that has spearheaded the development of Thomson's discoveries.<br />The second section segues from history to public policy and ethics, including analyses of the National Bioethics Advisory Committee's report on stem cells in 1999. This by and large was a good introduction to how the government, and specifically the Clinton administration, began to respond to stem cells. Erik Parens has a good article on how people tried to differentiate between the morality of experimenting on embryos from IVF clinics and embryos made specifically for research, and a few other dilemmas stemming from current human embryonic stem cell (hES) sources and protocols.<br />We then go into the third section, which contains religious perspectives on ESCR. This is where I found the term &quot;debate&quot; a misnomer, as for the exception of Gilbert Meilaender, a Protestant thelogian, all the religious commentators tried to show how their traditions could tolerate, if not actively approve of, ESCR. Now I know that many religious people approve of ESCR, but the deafening silence on the opposition's part (excepting Dr. Meilaender's rather short piece) concerns me. Ironically, in the following section, sociologists Paul Root Wolpe and Glenn McGee note that the majority of the ESCR dialogue has been within a community with an active interest in promoting ESCR. This seems to be just the case in this book.<br />The fourth chapter is a public policy section, with the aforementioned good essay by Wolpe and McGee on the nature of the ESCR debate. The essays treat issues like whether pressure will be exerted on women in fertility clinics to donate unused embryos to labs, whether the poor will get stem cell therapy, government oversight, and several other practical concerns that must be addressed if one promotes ESCR and any future applications it may bring. During the height of the ESCR debate, I didn't hear much of the minority or feminist viewpoint on ESCR, so the opinions of Suzanne Holland (who appears earlier in Section II), Margaret McLean, and Cynthia Cohen were particularly handy.<br />On the whole, this is a useful book, but I suggest that in addition to reading the thoughts in this volume, you should check out Richard Doerflinger, the research ethics group Do No Harm or some of the others who oppose embryonic research. If this book were to do justice to both sides, it would be a much better resource.	2002-01-04
US	51711171	R2M24ZDT7SU9XW	0375750363	813192898	Confessions of a Philosopher: A Personal Journey Through Western Philosophy from Plato to Popper (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Philosophy as something important (how about that!).	Many people think of philosophy as a bunch of useless ideas bandied about by stale old professors who do not get out much, and regrettably, quite a few philosophers can be blamed for this. Philosophy as it should be, however, can tell you powerful things about the nature of your life and how you should treat others and yourself. If philosophy were useless, Socrates would not have been deemed dangerous enough to be executed!<br />Bryan Magee's struggles in life, and his resource to philosophy for the answers underscores the deep power and attraction philosophy can hold, as he sets out in his autobiography.<br />Magee is an interesting character, as while he is avowedly unreligious he has a worldview very unlike most atheists or agnostics, and I think most people will find that he nonetheless has a very spiritual streak in him, as Magee has an extremely strong sense of wonder and does not cling to the materialistic dogmas of most modern atheists. He is remarkably honest, and I think he is a great travelling companion for anyone seeking the truth.<br />Philosophy needs more popularizers and apologists, those who can make tough concepts understandable and also convince people that those answers are very important and applicable towards our lives. Mr. Magee does an impressive job of this in relating his life's pilgrimage in philosophy, and while one may not always like his conclusions, I think his questions and his very earnest response to those questions will inspire us and get us asking questions of our own.	2001-11-03
US	51711171	R3ZKDR4SA6UJ4	091621169X	828640192	Rifts Sourcebook 3: Mindwerks	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Superb Supplement	Between &quot;Mindwerks&quot; and the NGR Worldbook, Palladium really did a great job on Europe. <br />Mindwerks is another corporate relic of pre-Rifts Earth, and a pioneer in Crazy (M.O.M.) technology. The stress of the post-apocalypse Dark Ages drove its leader mad, and is now known as the Angel of Death. The Angel of Death and her cyborg &quot;daughter&quot;, the Angel of Destruction, now outfit the Brodkil and Gargoyles with high technology and exotic new M.O.M. technology, turning those great all-around villains into an even more versatile threat.<br />Some of the other stuff, like the Tarnow Kingdom, isn't so hot--it involves yet another alien intelligence plot, and those get a wee bit old after the umpteenth supplement. The concept behind this particular plot is pretty cool (a magical stone which transforms metals into gold or MDC materials), but I have grown somewhat jaundiced about alien intelligence conspiracies. The new Triax equipment and Gargoyle bots are cool, though I'd doubt many GMs could integrate such heavy armor into it--Rifts could use a set of rules for large battles, rather than small melees, since so much equipment that they showcase will only show up for very large engagements. <br />The twisted Millenium Tree is a concept that could spawn a number of good campaigns (don't let PCs get too close, however, without being well armed or very well concealed), and helps integrate the Rifts England world book with continental Europe. The other new supernatural beasties and the Gene Splicers make a nice menagerie and have solid potential for encounters in the wilderness.<br />On the whole, this is one of the best supplements.	2001-11-03
US	51711171	RO73W9272V03O	0916211517	568201460	Rifts Sourcebook 1	Books	5	6	6	N	N	It plugs some holes in the main book very well	The first sourcebook gives you some added perspective on gameplay and some handy new tools, including the Triax line of weapons and useful tools for characters. In the beginning there are some FAQs and tips for gameplay which are especially nice for greenhorns, and just help everyone get a better feel for the flavor of Rifts.<br />I like how they give further data on the Coalition States military organization and give us info on the Brodkil, Simvan and Splugorth Slavers--those three are some great standy-by villains. <br />The A.R.C.H.I.E. story and mini-campaign I did not particularly like, but even if you don't the story of a pre-Rifts artificial intelligence creating a small automated city-state (or just find it unconvincing, like I did), there are some cool robots and ideas for GMs to scavenge.<br />This book is pretty small compared to later Rifts releases, and I gather from the beginning of the book that Siembieda et al. released this one in a bit of a hurry as a sop to Rifts fans. Still, this is a great companion for the original book, and even if you aren't hot on the idea of blowing hundreds on the umpteen supplements Palladium ground out during the past decade, this should be on your shelf next to the main Rifts Book.	2001-10-29
US	51711171	RH8SH0JY7I6XJ	0201838877	56882922	Optics	Books	4	31	34	N	N	Good for intuition, but uneven mathematically	Hecht did a great job of giving you visually appealing (as is only appropriate for an Optics text!) descriptions of optical phenomena. I've been frustrated by other texts which do extensive mathematical derivations without telling you what the math is supposed to describe. <br />On the other hand, Hecht does not give many example problems, and sometimes he entirely breezes over the math behind certain phenomena, and while I appreciate the clarity of his qualitative descriptions, I feel pretty crippled if I cannot mathematically characterize the optical systems I'm studying. On the other hand, sometimes he goes overboard with some pretty confusing math, like the math behind the Cornu spiral. This graph is used to help figure out the spacing of Fresnel diffraction lines, but Hecht layers on some very confusing electromagnetic wave theory on top of the basic function, and I had a hard time trying to understand what he was describing.<br />This is still a great beginning's text, but it should be bulked up a bit with more solved problems and mathematical examples, and some things like the Cornu Spiral should be wholly reworked.	2001-10-29
US	51711171	R3EWWDO5EZT5QR	0916211525	763489220	Rifts World Book 1: Vampire Kingdoms	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Over the top at times, but really well laid-out	The premise of the Vampire Kingdoms is that with the collapse of human government, vampires thrived in the dry (i.e., no rainstorms to wipe out an unwary undead)wastes of Mexico. Towards the north, near Texas are human cities and outposts like Ciudad Juarez, Tampico, and the anti-vampire crusaders like Doc Reid.<br />Now, if you had a nation of vampires that are as strong as say, the vampires in Ravenloft or AD&amp;D in general, humanity is going to die. So what Palladium did was weaken vampires considerably from what you would see in other gaming systems (they are basically the same as vampires in Beyond the Supernatural). Therefore, PCs will have a fighting chance. I personally think they may vampires less fearsome, and while I make vampires much less numerous and organized, I make them more personalized and stronger (I yoinked ideas from Ravenloft for this).<br />Despite my gripes, I really like most of this worldbook. Ciudad Juarez is described in great detail, with loads of information on the gangs, government (often indistinguishable from the latter item), and people of the city. I wish that Rifts Atlantis had a similar eye for detail--Splynn could have been fleshed out better. The technowizard anti-vampire weapons are a particularly good concept.<br />Now what I really dislike is the often graphic nature of the worldbook. Yes, vampires are gross--never get an undead supplement expecting cheeriness!--but some of the Vampire Kingdoms often have an Auschwitz twist to them (these are one of the aspects of the vampires that I delete for campaigns). Likewise, many of the Reid's Rangers have become hardened and depraved by continued exposure to the undead, which can become a little unsettling. But by making those dark elements in the Rangers, Palladium gives PCs a chance to be heroes who can redeem a noble idea, so perhaps I'm being too pessimistic.<br />A book is only an outline for a GM--if you are willing to exercise discretion and are not particularly put-off by the book (I wasn't, and I hope I didn't make the few bad points too magnified), this is one of Palladium's best pieces of work.the book (I wasn't, and I hope I didn't make the few bad points too magnified), this is one of Palladium's best pieces of work.	2001-10-28
US	51711171	R2S68LHHAHHCG	087220023X	287245206	Materialism and the Mind-Body Problem	Books	4	4	7	N	N	A good dialogue, but has a weak start	This book was on the whole a very well structured anthology showing how the debate amongst materialists has evolved on the nature of mind and the body. Hackett continues a fine tradition of providing first-rate philosophy at great prices.<br />My chief gripe is that the dualistic selections at the beginning are Descartes and Spinoza--the latter in particular tends to be a favorite strawman for materialists and othere modern philosophers, and while a dualist myself I don't like Descartes' way of proving it. I understand that this book concentrates on materialism, but perhaps for another edition they could go for putting in a selection on dualism from Kant?<br />That caveat aside, I still think this book a great introduction for a topic that will only grow more important as neuroscience progresses.	2001-10-25
US	51711171	R2MDUOJOTRN3KK	0916211509	370604320	Rifts: Role-Playing Game	Books	5	15	23	N	N	Simple to use but needs an advanced GM to do really well	Rifts uses a very simple system for guiding gameplay which is common to all Palladium games. I like it a lot better than the rather baroque AD&amp;D (2nd and to my knowledge, 3rd) rules. With a little personalized tweaking by the GM, this system can be fast, believable, and a lot of fun.<br />One caution: it is very easy to go overboard on weapons. PCs can get a lot of flexibility on what weapons and vehicles theey want, so if you want a relatively low-key group of 1st-level adventurers and vagabonds, set ground rules ASAP. Otherwise you'll have an armored company of robots with MIRV nuclear weapons. You may think I'm exaggerating, but stuff like this has happened to me before. <br />While it can be abused, the powerful, fascinating combination of magic, psi, and technology turns Rifts into very fertile ground. This system is a lot of fun and I highly recommend it.	2001-10-20
US	51711171	R3UY0MWTLHYGNL	0916211606	571314560	Rifts World Book 5: Triax & the NGR	Books	5	8	8	N	N	One of the best supplements	The problem with the Atlantis supplement was that Palladium didn't give us the level of description for the the cities of Atlantis like they did for the Vampire Kingdoms. Yes, there were more cities to keep track of, but the magic continent had much more promise.<br />The NGR supplement redeems Palladium. They don't give you layouts of cities like Ciudad Juarez, but you get a fat ol' book stuffed with information on the technologies, strategy, and culture of the NGR and Gargoyle Empire, with notes on the rest of the city. <br />If you like big high-powered toys and high adventure, get this supplement and loose your PCs on some gargoyles and Brodkil. If you are more subtle, there are a lot of cool espionage or political possibilities in this book. But whatever you are, if you are a big Rifts fan, this is one of the best books you could get.	2001-10-20
US	51711171	R1QOMEMNTQ2KZ0	0916211703	182895057	Rifts Mercenaries: A Giant Sourcebook for Rifts	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A solid sourcebook with good potential	Mercenaries gives the GM an outline of what merc companies are like in Rifts North America and gives you some new OCCs and (of course!) a lot of new hardware, including some pretty new things, like ships, retrofitted SDC weapons, and ultra-cheap power armor. It's not just new Wilk's, Triax, and NG product lines.<br />The character classes fill out the basic set pretty well: we now have forgers, spies, and bounty hunters, to name a couple, and while I have yet to put one of those OCCs through a campaign, I think they look pretty good. The Coalition military OCCs in the original Rifts book were very limited, and this gives you some needed depth.<br />My biggest gripe is the big mercenary companies that they profile. As they did with Carnivals in World Book I, or with spy organizations in Ninjas and Superspies, Palladium presents a point-based system for designing mercenary companies. They also give you about 5 of the chief mercenary companies in North America as example units. I think that some of them get pretty cheesy, especially when some of the chief NPCs for those merc companies cross-over from other Palladium games, such as a couple super-heroes from Heroes Unlimited, and a ninja (who is a mega-damage creature!) from Ninjas and Superspies. Yes, the nature of Rifts lets you blend many things into your campaigns, and that's cool, but if you abuse it, the system is no longer a tight story but a random pastiche of leftovers from other campaigns. <br />But a GM is not forced to use those things, and I would definitely edit the merc companies before placing one in one of my campaigns. Otherwise, this sourcebook is a good return to the atmosphere of the first few Rifts books, with dusty adventurers and gritty frontier towns. I like it a lot.	2001-10-20
US	51711171	R301NHZLSU59H8	0697115917	943271641	Asian Art	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Good, but needs some more editing and better visuals	La Plante's text is able to give you a good feel for the artistic culture of India, China, and Japan over the past several millennia, which is an immense task that he does well. This book, however, has pretty disappointing flaws.<br />Reviewers of this book have alrady excoriated it for lousy pictures, and while this does not destroy the book's good value, these complaints are valid. The picture of Mohenjo-Daro's &quot;High Priest&quot; statue is heavily shadowed, and many of the black-and-white photos simply do not do justice to the material. Even if the publisher refused to suck it up and splurge on more color, shots with a better layout and lighting would do wonders.<br />Another gripe is more technical, but could really confuse someone who is not familiar with Chinese names. La Plante, as a preface to his section on China, notes that he uses the Pinyin system of transcribing Chinese sounds into the Roman alphabet. For the most part, yes, he does use Pinyin, but he isn't entirely consistent. The great historian of China, Sima Qian, is spelled &quot;Sima Chien&quot;, where &quot;Sima&quot; is in pinyin but &quot;Chien&quot; uses another transcription system. There are several other similar glitches. It's a silly mistake to make, and could throw off a student who is probably already intimidated by Chinese pronunciations. <br />The book does an excellent job of teaching you about different civilizations' artwork, especially considering the immensity of the cultures that are discussed and the relative thinness of the book--I just wish that some of these quirks would get ironed in the next editions, because then this book would really shine.	2001-10-17
US	51711171	R3CW5S0ZFZL5TY	0137562063	644539526	Readings In The Philosophy Of Religion: An Analytic Approach (Second Edition)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Well done, but could be fleshed out a bit	Baruch Brody did a good job in bringing together a wide range of works on the philosophy of religion. He brings in the usual big names on this topic, such as Aquinas, Anselm, and Hume, but does a really good job with finding lesser-known Protestant thinkers from the 17-19th centuries, like the great Puritan preacher, Jonathan Edwards, and the Anglican William Paley, who is the grandfather of modern Intelligent Design Theory and Creationism. These men had a significant influence on our thoughts on God, and I'm gratified that Brody gave them their due.<br />Selections are organized by topic (e.g., varying proofs for God's existence, God's omnipotence, the problem of evil, etc.) and the essays are well-picked. The first one will set the question, and the other ones critique and build on the first. The result is a very cogent collection.<br />I do want to make a couple suggestions for a better collection: the first is that the teleological arguments for God's existence draw mostly on physical arguments for the likelihood of our Universe forming by sheer chance rather than by intelligent design (i.e., a Creator). Much of the intelligent design debate, however, has been waged in recent times by biologists, and I would like to see essays by Dennett (on the materialist side) and Dembsky (on the intelligent design side) to flesh out that dialogue.<br />Also, Brody relies over-much on Hume to provide skeptical attacks on religious arguments, and while I would like for him to keep Hume's stuff, perhaps a few more modern skeptics may help balance the book. I'm glad that Brody has given so much room to all the robust defenses for theism that have arisen in recent times, but we should also get a better feel for what the skeptics have to say as well.<br />On the whole, this is a very nice collection of philosophical essays.	2001-10-14
US	51711171	R1TOTLV051HPKZ	063205901X	462394223	Gene Cloning and DNA Analysis: An Introduction	Books	5	29	29	N	N	A Versatile, Accessible Introduction	I came away very impressed from Dr. Brown's latest edition. The book is extremely readable but does not dumb down the material. I'm taking an upper-level molecular genetics lab and am doing independent work in genetics, and this book is a great reference. However, I think that this book would be pretty easy for someone with introductory level biology--heck, I think some AP Biology high school teachers may be able to use this text for their classes.<br />Brown takes you through all the basics of molecular genetics: from the basic mechanics of DNA manipulation to PCR, bacteriophages, and even a review of basic genomics and genomic analysis, which are still very new and rapidly evolving fields. Every chapter has references for more in-depth study. This is a great book to introduce you to modern molecular genetics.	2001-10-14
US	51711171	R1WNVBETV7PDKX	0312890370	38570142	The Gold Coast: Three Californias (Wild Shore Triptych)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Thoughtful Potrait of Suburbia Gone Riot	To judge from some of the other reviews of this book, many read The Gold Coast expecting more of Robinson's excellent adventure-SF, like the magnificent Mars Trilogy or Antarctica. Those expectations are understandable but do this great book a disservice.<br />The setting is Orange County in the middle of the 21st Century, with the USSR and the Cold War alive and well. Orange County has largely disappeared into a maze of highways and strip malls. The protagonist, Jim, is a twenty-something still dependent on his parents, who dabbles in Zen, post-modern poetry, works at an insurance agency and teaches night classes at a local community college. He cannot concentrate on anything for too long and tends to see other people as characters in a novel who come and go at random: when Jim's dad taught him about engine mechanics, Jim is interested and sees how the thermodynamics involved can be a metaphor for society, but then he promptly forgets it. When he visits his uncle Tom in a massive retirement home, he is fascinated by the lonely old man's storys of how Orange County used to be and resolves to spend more time with him, but as soon as the visit ends, he gets the heeby-jeebies about the retirement complex and ignores his uncle until he's obligated to visit again. He is in a relationship showing signs of becoming serious, but betrays his girlfriend for a random hook-up with a girl at a party. When Jim's friends tell him that his ex's heart was broken by the betray, he is surprised and rather indifferent.<br />Eventually Jim realizes how hollow he is and his first attempt to find meaning is to get involved with some saboteurs trying to end America's huge military-industrial complex. Eventually, we see him grow up and develop a mature relationship with an art teacher, and even become reconciled with his parents. He also finds his voice as a history writer who seeks to find out what Orange County used to be like, and how it came to be a suburban nightmare.<br />Jim is the main character, but Robinson also looks at Jim's parents, friends, and intersperses the fiction with prose meditations on the stages of Orange County's history. The result is a rich journey to a world that is hauntingly like our own. For instance, nobody has a boyfriend or girlfriend, they have &quot;allies&quot;, much like the modern term &quot;partner&quot;, and while the Cold War may be dead in our world, Robinson does a good job of making our consumer culture take a look in the mirror. <br />Many people talked about &quot;American Beauty&quot;'s  indictment of American suburbia, but ten years before that movie came out, Robinson created a much better examination of suburban culture, without the blatant polemics of American Beauty. <br />It's different from much of Robinson's other work, but it still has his unique style and is well worth your time.	2001-09-16
US	51711171	R37JK7IJ720MZV	0198559135	625607764	The Chemistry Maths Book	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Must for Science and Engineering	Steiner lays out years of mathematics in a very concise easy-to-find way. If you're looking for unit conversions,basic algebraic equations, line integrals, matrices, or numerical methods, it's in there. What really makes this text so useful is that after dealing with a particular type of equation, he'll have a couple examples and practice problems (which have solutions in the back). <br />In addition to a clear exposition of the math, Steiner does a well-balanced job of applying the math to real scientific problems in chemistry and physics. For instance, in the section dealing with implicit solutions and inverses, Steiner shows how those algebraic methods can be used on the Van der Waals equation. He doesn't overdo these problems or make the book's scope too narrow--you don't have to be a chemist to enjoy this book--but these &quot;real world&quot; examples really do help you make sense of math, and make this book a very useful, enjoyable resource.	2001-09-08
US	51711171	R2GL8PKAQGAG5Q	0387940723	727807690	Protein Purification: Principles and Practice (Springer Advanced Texts in Chemistry)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Clear, In-depth Treatment of Biochemistry	In the first chapter of Protein Purification, Scopes notes that more and more biochemical techniques are black boxed, with kits eliminating the need for an understanding of biochemical principles (e.g., &quot;precipitate with Acme Solution B, pour off Solution B, and redissolve precipitant in Solution C&quot;). Scopes notes that with a proper understanding of biochemistry, one can save money on kits and do more purification steps with standard lab materials and reagents. He wrote this book to help biochemistry labs make more informed decisions on protein purification rather than just defaulting on some already familiar kit or protocol.<br />Scopes succeeded in this purpose with flying colors: he hit a rare balance that makes this book fun to read. Each chapter is well-laid out, concetrating on a single separation technique's general practice and the theoretical foundations for that method. The basic ideas and materials are laid out, with clear, well-picked illustrations. <br />I was particularly happy with the mathematical treament Scopes gives: understanding the thermodynamics or physics of a process aids your intuitive understanding and makes your troubleshooting skills much more honed.	2001-09-01
US	51711171	R1BE6R9AO135TA	1890318086	465102956	The Concept of Sin	Books	4	47	50	N	N	A great introduction to some hard questions.	Pieper begins this short book with the observation that while sin still have grave connotations in our<BR>language, it is used largely for humorous effect in modern times. <br />Confucius once observed that the first step in philosophical debate was to agree on one's terms, and Pieper does a neat little job of investigating what the misunderstood yet evocative word &quot;sin&quot; means. His chief foundation is Thomas Aquinas, but he does a very impressive job of integrating modern, Eastern, and other pre-Christian sources; I did not realize how the concepts of expiation, confession, and original sin have parallels in Eastern and Classical thought. Even Sartre and Nietzsche--hardly Christians themselves!--are used in very sensitive, perceptive ways to show what sin does to us.<br />The book begins with observations on how sin is perceived in modern times, and then analyzes what the word sin actually means (to &quot;miss the mark&quot;), and how the Hebrew, Latin, and Greek writers have used the the word sin. Building this foundation, we begin to delve into the psychological basis of sin, and look at<BR>a very troubling paradox of sin: &quot;if sin is going against our nature, how can our natural desires lead us to sin?&quot; This question of what exactly drives us to sin haunts much of the book, and Pieper gives no easy answers, but rather opens up this debate for the reader, and gives many references, allowing one to pursue this question on one's own later on.<br />For anyone who wants to know more about why we do evil things, this is a good beginner's guide. Pieper is intelligent but<BR>accessible, and the book is very compact. Sometimes I wish he would have spent a litle more time developing some ideas--he sometimes takes Scholastic philosophical terms for granted, and while he defines them clearly, it would have been nice if he shows why these definitions are relevant to us. For instance, he observes that the term &quot;order&quot; has a static, fixed connotation to the modern person, but to the Medievals, it could mean a dynamic process. Pieper then adopts the Medieval view without telling us why we should take the Medieval one over the modern. This could have been easily explained by noting how scientific laws, while they are fixed equations, describe dynamic events, like radio waves, falling objects, and chemical reactions. Such an explanation would have been easily within Pieper's capabilities, and would connect his wealth of Scholastic understanding to the modern reader more easily.<br />Still, that quibble aside, this is a very readable, educational book, and I recommend it.	2001-08-31
US	51711171	R13MJLW6KHMJ1A	0684181452	753078935	Oriental Philosophies Second Edition	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This Needs to be Reprinted!	Koller's book was my first serious introduction to Asian philosophy, and I though I read this as a busy high school senior trying to juggle classes, college applications, and extra-curriculars, I did not begrudge the time spent on this book.<BR>Koller looks at the various Hindu, Buddhist, Chinese and Zen traditions, and gives serious outlines of their thought. What I found so entrancing was how he would select pieces of art which help exemplify the worldviews that he analyzes, whether it be a dancing Shiva or Chinese landscape, we see how philosophies can inform how a culture works, and it makes the book much more vivid and engaging. The ideas come alive.<BR>The Asian perspective is becoming more important for Americans to understand, and I commend this book as a valuable tool in appreciating the East.	2001-08-30
US	51711171	RJ44109O7YLO1	0345322401	193021593	The Songs of Distant Earth	Books	5	46	50	N	N	Haunting, Sad, and Beautiful.	Arthur C. Clarke is in fine form with this book about humanity after the death of Earth, burnt up by the Sun. Many colonies were started on other planets, and Thalassa was one of the later ones sent out before the Sun blew up. Thalassa is a quiet utopia, with the citizenry leading uneventful lives on their ocean world. This peace is shaken when the starship Magellan comes into their system, containing thousands of humans who were the last to leave the Solar System before the Sun blew up. Unlike the Thalassans, who grew up untroubled by the tensions and violence of Earth, the Magellan crew has fresh memories of the last violent days of Earth and still grieve for their home and loved ones; they remember religion, which was supressed on Thalassa to avoid religious strife; they remember tragedy. Clarke's book is a sensitive telling of what happens when the Thalassans are exposed to the last human survivors of Earth, and how those survivors are touched by the tranquillity of Thalassa. Clarke shows you love, remembrance, and tragedy infused with Clarke's sense of wonder.	2001-08-30
US	51711171	R1BC74G61RETFT	0812521323	72429578	The Edge of Tomorrow	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A great introduction to Isaac Asimov	This was the first book of Asimov's that I read, and I think it give you a good grasp of what the late great writer's thought was like. You have some of the best short stories included, especially \\"Nightfall\\", one of the all-time SF classics, and some enduring favorites of mine, such as \\"Belief\\" (which asks what happens when a physicists finds out he can fly)and \\"Breeds There a Man?\\" (a rather unsettling tale about mankind's origins and future). <br />Asimov is at his best form with the short story (the famous Foundation Trilogy began as short stories), and these are the pick of the litter. I'm not sure how many people are aware of Asimov's interests in science history, and he has many delightful essays giving one a window into some of the lesser-known characters in scientific history, and some of Asimov's thoughts on the role of science. Of particular note is also his thesis that technology made slavery obsolete.	2001-08-28
US	51711171	R2BQKZ5VTCHGAL	0898705878	526077919	The Christian and Anxiety	Books	5	79	79	N	N	What Theology Should Be	Many accuse theology of being meaningless bickering over what we cannot verify. Von Balthasar happily topples those prejudices with this book, which is not only a profound look at the human condition and Scripture, but is also a strong challenge to the reader. The Christian and Anxiety starts with a chapter on what anxiety means in Scripture. This first Chapter alone would merit a purchase, as von Balthasar pulls together many threads from the Wisdom literature of the OT (e.g., Proverbs, Wisdom, Sirach, etc.) to give us a Scriptural review of anxiety. I found this very fruitful, and has caused me to go back to a couple books of the Bible for a new look. Von Balthasar then goes on in the next two chapters to reflect on the theological and philosophical underpinning of anxiety. This becomes tough, involved reading, and I'll be musing over this part of the book for some time, but you do come away with a new understanding about anxiety, which seems to be a very representative emotion for the modern West. Some books are difficult because the writing is poor, or the thoughts are disconnected, and some books are difficult because the author enters into a deep subject and does justice to it. The Christian and Anxiety fits in with the latter, and I highly recommend it as a worthy investment.	2001-08-28
US	51711171	R2W0945HB21B8R	0935702997	208022686	Physical Chemistry: A Molecular Approach	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Not an ideal intro, but a keeper	The University of Pittsburgh used this text my p-chem I class, which deals with quantum physics. This book and the associated answer manual have a wealth of information, and I think this will be a great addition to my library for the years to come. I noticed, however, that the highly detail mathematical derivations of key equations often came at the expense of explanations or illustrations. I like mathematical rigor, but it helps to explain the significance of the mathematical models, and this book could do a much better job. Rather than fishing for the right information in McQuarrie, I found myself going to the Atkins text to help ease me into McQuarrie. This book has great staying power due to its great detail and scope of topics, and I'm treasuring my copy, but it has flaws as a beginning undergraduate text.	2001-08-27
US	51711171	R2JCLGH6DSRLWX	0394745027	296214142	Godel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid	Books	5	45	49	N	N	One of the biggest influences in my life, and a classic.	Douglas Hofstadter uses the art of M.C. Escher, the music of J.S. Bach, and Kurt Goedel's mathematics as the centerpieces for a magnificent inquiry into the nature of the mind. Along the way you will encounter Bertrand Russel, Carroll Lewis, particle physics, molecular biology, Magritte's paintings, and Zen koans. These are all used to probe recursion and the mystery of how we form thoughts. But the list of topics alone is not what makes this book great, it's the playful, joyful sense that characterize's Hofstadter's treatment of this. This sense of wonder is critical, as without it this highly challenging book would be very frustrating. The book's style itself is based on Bach's canons, and the chapters are interspersed with dialogues between the Tortois and the Hare, in the style of Carroll's Alice in Wonderland. The result is an artistic as well as scientific or philisophical masterpiece. I am currently a triple-major in molecular biology, physics, and philosophy, and much of my curriculum has been influenced by the beauty of Hofstadter's book. This will go down as one of the 20th Century's bests books.	2001-08-25
US	51711171	RJ4YTWOY43ZYS	1882926358	345190106	Common Truths: New Perspectives on Natural Law (Goodrich Lecture Series)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A Stimulating Primer	What struck me is that this book analyzes natural law within a legal context: many of the contributing authors are attorneys as well as philosopher. This is particularly helpful to our nation today, as I think more citizens will have to reassess the role of the judiciary these days.<br />For the latter half of the 20th century, worries over &quot;judicial acitivism&quot; and judges' making decisions that should be made by legislatures have been the domain of conservatives, with Roe v. Wade probably being the chief example. But now liberals have said similar things about the Supreme Court's Bush v. Gore decision. It is high time for intelligent discussion, and this book is a solid foundation for a dialogue.<br />By looking at natural law historically, legally, and philosophically, the authors of this book examine how natural law works and various challenges to it. This book is a very good introduction, and I have come away with a greater respect for natural law and its vital role in our nation, and also new questions to pursue (and more books to buy...). <br />The contributing authors are an impressive team of formidable thinkers, and while most of the writers clearly come from a religious background, the are pretty good about keeping what they say applicable to a secular society (the last two essays tend to be more theological than philosophical, and I thought that hurt their impact). <br />I think MacIntyre's essay on the role of the ordinary person in natural law is particularly valuable: if the American citizenry cannot execute sound moral judgment, our nation as a constitutional republic is in grave danger. Fuller's essay on Locke's struggles with natural law is an honest and challenging look at natural law's theoretical chinks. Riley's essay on tort law gave excellent lessons on liability, but with lawsuits being as common as they are nowadays, I would have hoped for more practical insights on today's situation, and possible remedies.<br />On the whole, this book is a good read and a good challenge. I highly recommend it to anyone interested in ethics or concerned about the present condition of the United States.	2001-08-22
US	51711171	R2B28EG24SOVY4	0137955359	861521210	Basic Laboratory Methods for Biotechnology	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A Keystone For The Laboratory	When I first started work in a lab as an undergrad, I would often learn of crucial tricks after I had already messed up a procedure and lost an hour or more of work. It's ironic how dependent molecular biologists are on that most ancient means of communication: oral tradition. <br />When I took a biochem lab, I was introduced to the Seidman and Moore text, which is a fantastic teaching source. For the beginner, this book has chapters on basic units of measurement and mathematics, laboratory organization and regulation (including the government bodies which oversee lab safety), writing standards, and web etiquette. No stone is unturned! Even after one gets the basics mastered, this book has tables on plastics and buffers, showing how they react to heat, light, and other critical data--my biochemistry instructor was even suprised by some of the information on plasticware! This is a companion for one's career in the lab.	2001-04-30
US	51711171	R2H1C3UJ3TSB0J	0674003993	409887303	Intention	Books	5	44	46	N	N	Reflections on an oft-neglected subject	G.E.M. Anscombe, a student of Wittgenstein, uses an approach that is reminsicent of her old teacher by dividing her book into individual reflections on aspects of what it means to intend to do something. This method invites the reader to meditate on this topic and does a powerful job to help one realize what a mystery intention is, and shows just how much depth there is to human action and  interpersonal relations. Anscombe, who just died earlier in 2001, is rightfully considered one of the greatest English speaking philosophers of the 20th century, and this work is a magnificent example of her genius.	2001-04-17
