US	51717849	R2L3VCCBEAIFW3	0911903968	412209050	The Life And Times Of Scrooge McDuck	Books	5	29	31	N	N	SUPERB!!!	I am primarily a reader of superhero comics and never, ever had a desire, even as a child, to read any comics involving Disney characters.  In fact, I didn't like Disney in general, so my little insulated world of comics would certainly not be tainted with the adventures of talking animals.  That all changed this week when I purchased the trade paperback THE LIFE AND TIMES OF SCROOGE MCDUCK.  Even now, I can't say exactly what made me pick up this book.  Maybe it was the excellent cost per page ratio.  Maybe it was the exceptional printing quality and color.  I have a sneaking suspicion that the spirits of Walt Disney and Carl Barks were urging me to give this character a try.  I am so glad I did.<br /><br />The title of this collection says it all fairly well:  the story is indeed the life and times of Donald Duck's miserly uncle.  It's the way the story is constructed that makes it so engaging.  Writer/artist Don Rosa painstakingly researched the original Uncle Scrooge stories by creator Carl Barks, pulling out references and little tidbits to construct a fascinating history in 12 chapters, beginning in 1867, when little Scroogie was a mere shoeshine boy in his native Scotland, to 1947, detailing Scrooge's reintroduction to his nephew Donald, as well as Huey, Dewey, and Louie.  Furthermore, you get seamlessly interwoven backgrounds on many characters associated with or related to Scrooge.<br /><br />Primarily, Don Rosa tells some funny and entertaining stories, but they can also be full of emotion, as when Scrooge and his sisters leave Scotland for America, or when we see Scrooge caring more for money than for his family.  I tore through this book in two afternoons, not because it's a quick read (far from it), but because I had such a hard time tearing myself away!  Scrooge's adventures are not unlike those of Forrest Gump or Harry Flashman, in that he has a habit of turning up in the right place at the right time and encountering all sorts of famous historical characters or events.  At the end of each chapter, Rosa provides informative notes on which occurrences were taken from which of Barks' stories.  What really got my attention, however, was the art.  The best way I can explain it is, picture the standard Disney characters superimposed on the frantic, crowded artwork of MAD Magazine artist Will Elder.  There are so many details and humorous background additions to the panels, to the point that I wonder how Rosa was able to stay focused.  In fact, there are several instances where I am convinced he was paying direct tribute to MAD.<br /><br />It is easy to see why this story earned Don Rosa a Will Eisner Award in 1995.  Even though I was totally unaware of it at the time, I fully support it!  So, Mr. Barks, thank you for your wonderful creation.  And Mr. Rosa, thanks to you for opening a door that I had considered closed long ago.  Each of you has a new fan.cal characters or events.  At the end of each chapter, Rosa provides informative notes on which occurrences were taken from which of Barks' stories.  What really got my attention, however, was the art.  The best way I can explain it is, picture the standard Disney characters superimposed on the frantic, crowded artwork of MAD Magazine artist Will Elder.  There are so many details and humorous background additions to the panels, to the point that I wonder how Rosa was able to stay focused.  In fact, there are several instances where I am convinced he was paying direct tribute to MAD.   <br /> <br />It is easy to see why this story earned Don Rosa a Will Eisner Award in 1995.  Even though I was totally unaware of it at the time, I fully support it!  So, Mr. Barks, thank you for your wonderful creation.  And Mr. Rosa, thanks to you for opening a door that I had considered closed long ago.  Each of you has a new fan. <br />	2005-10-06
US	51717849	RUEIIEZP38VO	1401207219	540900899	Space Ghost	Books	2	2	7	N	N	THIS is Space Ghost?  No thanks.	Remember when the first issue of a comic gave a concise origin of the title character, and then got down to business with subsequent issues?  No?  Well, I won't fault you for that, as there are very few comics like that these days.  It's a characteristic of Golden & Silver Age characters, but something that modern writers don't understand.  Space Ghost, while originally an animated cartoon character, comes from the mid-sixties, and he definitely has that Silver Age vibe, \\"Space Ghost Coast to Coast\\" notwithstanding.  Though the character didn't have an origin previously, it really didn't seem that important, as the cartoon made his mission clear.  I certainly didn't need to see an extensive origin, just more Space Ghost comics in general.  And if he really needed one, then do as the old saying goes: keep it simple, stupid!<br /><br />DC Comics has now enlisted writer Joe Kelly and artist Ariel Olivetti to present the origin of Space Ghost, and overall, I am not impressed.  I must admit, Olivetti's artwork is great as always, but the story is a different matter.  First problem: it's waaaaay too much story!  Spreading his origin over six issues is not a good use of the creative team's energy.  Second problem: this is not the classic family-friendly version of Space Ghost.  Instead, this version has a very morbid and traumatic origin, and it's not something that ties in well with the mood of the original character.  I was quite shocked when I saw that my local comic shop had placed this book on their top rack for mature readers.  At the time, I thought they had made a mistake, but not so.  Those readers who are expecting something that harkens back to the classic hero should be prepared for a disappointment.	2005-09-28
US	51717849	RSQR8FEYQ71CE	0785107967	318205151	Thor: Across All Worlds	Books	2	4	11	N	N	Binding on my copy is fine, but still gets a low rating for the story.	Once Walt Simonson finished his '80s run on Thor, I quit.  Tom DeFalco ran it into the ground, and I felt nothing could ever be that good again.  Recently, however, many people have recommended Dan Jurgens' and Andy Kubert's version of Thor to me, saying it continued in the spirit of Simonson's work.  Upon finishing their trade paperback THOR: ACROSS ALL WORLDS, I can say with certainty that Thor still isn't what he was.<br /><br />The only way I can see that this loose \\"storyline\\" harkens back to Simonson's version is that it tries to take almost every concept he used throughout his run on Thor and cram it into 8 issues.  Beta Ray Bill, Malekith, the Cask of Ancient Winters, Kurse, the Wild Hunt, the Enchantress... they're all here, doing just what they were doing 20 years ago.  Big deal.  Throw in some major plot devices that are hardly explained at all (Thor's new alter ego; the fate of Odin; the scheme of Zarrko, the Tomorrow Man), as well as some page-eating battles with The Wrecking Crew, Gladiator, and \\"Thor-Girl\\" and you've got a writer who's struggling to make the character of Thor relevant again but just floundering.  I love Jurgens' work on Superman, but Thor?  He apparently doesn't get it.<br /><br />As far as the art goes, it could be better.  I am not a huge fan of Andy Kubert.  While he is capable, I feel that he is only as good as his inker/embellisher (see Neil Gaiman's 1602).  Stuart Immonen lends his beautiful pencils to one issue of this book, teasing the reader with what could have been.  So, my advice:  Get all of the Marvel Comics reprints of Lee/Kirby's and Walt Simonson's Thor, and leave it at that.	2005-09-16
US	51717849	R1K1F8RIVIXP6T	0930289838	447023559	The Greatest 1950's Stories Ever Told (DC Comics)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A melting pot	If I recall correctly, DC Comics released 7 \\"Greatest Stories\\" collections (Superman, Batman, Joker, Flash, Team-Ups, Forties, and Fifties), with all but the Forties making it into trade paperback format.  Then, for some reason I'm not privy to, the line was dumped.  Maybe DC felt they were giving readers too good of a deal, and I can believe it, each book costing about $15 for ~300 pages of great reading.  It's unfortunate that they didn't continue the series, or at least keep it in print.  And don't be fooled by the recently-released Superman and Batman \\"Greatest Stories Ever Told\\" collections.  Those are completely different and don't nearly approach the worthiness of these collections.<br /><br />THE GREATEST 1950s STORIES EVER TOLD highlights a decade of uncertainty for DC Comics, and the entire comic medium in general.  The ageing of their former audience, the shifting of entertainment to television, and political and moral pressures forced the majority of the costumed heroes out of the spotlight, to be replaced by a crazy mix of adventure, comedy, sci-fi, fantasy, war, and romance comics.  Towards the end of the decade, DC moved back on track, revamping their shelved Golden Age heroes with more of a modern, science-fiction angle.  That successful gamble signaled the beginning of the Silver Age of comics.<br /><br />All of the above-mentioned genres are represented in this collection, and I have to say that the selection is excellent.  Included are Showcase # 6, 8-9, and 23; Adventure Comics # 159, 245, and 253; World's Finest Comics # 77 and 64; Star-Spangled Comics #113; Detective Comics #228; Sugar and Spike #3; Congo Bill #6; Strange Adventures #28; Western Comics #72; Wonder Woman #99; Blackhawk #109; The Fox and the Crow #14; Superboy #22; Brave and the Bold #3; Sensation Comics #107; Batman #81; Phantom Stranger #1; Action Comics #238; All-American Western Comics #121; Girls' Love Stories #27; Our Army at War #87; and  Jimmy Olsen #32.  In addition to the heroes indicated by the issue titles, the book also provides appearances from the Flash, Green Lantern, Aquaman, Superman, Martian Manhunter, Nighthawk, King Faraday, Tomahawk, Captain Comet, Green Arrow & Speedy, the Shining Knight, Jon the Viking Prince, and Sgt. Rock.<br /><br />This is a very worthwhile book that deserves reprinting.  In fact, DC should pick up this line again, with both more heroes and more decades.  The intro is very informative as to the creators involved with these comics, as well as the various pressures put upon the comic medium at the time.  It shouldn't be too hard to find a copy, as it hasn't been out of print for very long.cated by the issue titles, the book also provides appearances from the Flash, Green Lantern, Aquaman, Superman, Martian Manhunter, Nighthawk, King Faraday, Tomahawk, Captain Comet, Green Arrow & Speedy, the Shining Knight, Jon the Viking Prince, and Sgt. Rock.    This is a very worthwhile book that deserves reprinting.  In fact, DC should pick up this line again, with both more heroes and more decades.  The intro is very informative as to the creators involved with these comics, as well as the various pressures put upon the comic medium at the time.  It shouldn't be too hard to find a copy, as it hasn't been out of print for very long.	2005-09-09
US	51717849	R314NGLGLSETSM	1563897164	15550587	Super Friends!: Your Favorite Television Super-Team is Back!	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Yes, that's right:  5 STARS!!!	This review is for both Super Friends trade paperback collections:  SUPER FRIENDS! and SUPER FRIENDS: TRUTH, JUSTICE, & PEACE.<br /><br />There are many who regard the Super Friends and anything related to them as garbage, as if a poorly-animated TV show with boring plots and stereotyped characters could have nothing good to offer!  Seriously, when it comes to the cartoon, I am very middle-of-the-road, but not so when it comes to the tie-in comic series released by DC.  In fact, while I owned some of these comics when they were originally released in the '70s, I had no concept of how they tied into the greater DC Universe and integrated so well with official DC continuity... okay, I know that Crisis on Infinite Earths undid all of that, but if you are a fan of the DCU in general, you should pick up these two books.  The stories, written by DC veteran E. Nelson Bridwell and the TV series designer Alex Toth, are actually very well-written, much more so than the cartoon, and the art, by legends Ramona Fradon, Alex Toth, and Kurt Schaffenberger, is clean, vibrant, and stunning, evoking memories of DC's silver age.  The main focus of the stories is the \\"heroes in training\\", first consisting of Wendy, Marvin, and Wonder Dog, and quickly switching to the Wonder Twins Zan & Jayna, and their pet elasti-monkey Gleek.  The regular team of Superman, Batman, Robin, Wonder Woman, and Aquaman serve to futher the plot, primarily through instructing their charges, but it is commonly the trainees who solve the various crimes and mysteries.  References to Golden and Silver Age DC stories abound, and you'll see many other DC characters make cameos (Sinestro, Nightwing and Flamebird [!], and doubles of Swamp Thing, the Demon, Man-Bat, and Solomon Grundy) or play central roles in stories (Elongated Man, Green Arrow, the Global Guardians, Dr. Mist, Black Orchid, TNT and Dan the Dyna-Mite, Supergirl, and Felix Faust).  Add to this a very detailed feature in volume 1 on how network cartoons are made, written and profusely illustrated by Alex Toth, and you've got a two-volume set that deserves more recognition than it gets.  Covers by Alex Ross (vol. 1) and Alex Toth (vol. 2) only add to the charm.<br /><br />Two minor problems with these books are that the series is not presented in chronological order, plus some shorter stories ended up being left out; however, I feel lucky that these stories were even reprinted at all, giving me a chance to get a better perspective on some comics that many would regard as throw-aways.ade, written and profusely illustrated by Alex Toth, and you've got a two-volume set that deserves more recognition than it gets.  Covers by Alex Ross (vol. 1) and Alex Toth (vol. 2) only add to the charm.    Two minor problems with these books are that the series is not presented in chronological order, plus some shorter stories ended up being left out; however, I feel lucky that these stories were even reprinted at all, giving me a chance to get a better perspective on some comics that many would regard as throw-aways.	2005-09-03
US	51717849	R2ZXJU5Q5HV3WK	1563894386	798072550	Superman: Exile	Books	4	29	29	N	N	A stellar adventure	SUPERMAN: EXILE is a worthwhile read for any kind of Superman fan.  Both pre- and post-Crisis aficionados will find something to like in this story.  And hey, it occurs prior to Superman's exaggerated death, so that's a plus either way you look at it.  Collected here are SUPERMAN (second series) #28-30, #32-33, ADVENTURES OF SUPERMAN #451-456, ACTION COMICS ANNUAL #2, and ACTION COMICS #643 (all from 1988-89)... a good chunk of reading that will keep you busy.  Almost 300 pages for only fifteen bucks is an anomaly in today's overpriced trade paperback market.  The creators list consists of writers George Perez, Dan Jurgens, and Jerry Ordway, and artists Curt Swan, Mike Mignola, Kerry Gammill, and others.<br /><br />The story itself is epic in scope, following the post-Crisis Superman on his adventures in deep space.  But wait, why is the Man of Steel not back on Earth, protecting us from threats domestic and alien?  Simple:  he is wracked with grief over his recent action of taking the lives of 3 homicidal Kryptonian criminals who escaped from the Phantom Zone.  Now, I'll admit this premise is pretty flimsy, even for Superman - on one hand, you have a code that says you won't take a life, but on the other, you have 3 individuals, each possessing your full power, who want nothing more than to plunder your adopted world and kill every last living thing on the planet... I wouldn't lose any sleep over that decision, but then I guess that's what makes Superman better than me, right?  Anyway, deciding he is a potential threat to the people of Earth, Supes exiles himself to wander space on something of a \\"hero's journey\\".  If you've read any Joseph Campbell, you can probably figure out the basic structure of the story from here, but even though the plot is fairly predictable, the adventures themselves are good reading, with a bit of real weirdness here and there.  Interestingly, even though our hero is in space for the majority of this book, there's still some crazy stuff occuring in Metropolis, and equal time is given to the supporting cast on Earth, so you get regular diversions from Superman's adventures.  Add to this the first appearances of both Mongul and the Eradicator, and you've got some good solid reading that is a worthy addition to your Superman library.  The only real negative comment I can make is that the ending loses steam and is fairly routine, especially after the rapid-fire \\"what next?\\" style present in the earlier stories.  But that's a minor complaint, as I don't plan on getting rid of this book.in Metropolis, and equal time is given to the supporting cast on Earth, so you get regular diversions from Superman's adventures.  Add to this the first appearances of both Mongul and the Eradicator, and you've got some good solid reading that is a worthy addition to your Superman library.  The only real negative comment I can make is that the ending loses steam and is fairly routine, especially after the rapid-fire \\"what next?\\" style present in the earlier stories.  But that's a minor complaint, as I don't plan on getting rid of this book.	2005-09-01
US	51717849	RPTUOHZNYOR2M	078511873X	144712124	Secret Wars (Marvel Super Heroes)	Books	1	42	65	N	N	Marvel puts a pig in a dress, and still can't get it right.	Secret Wars is perhaps the most unnecessary story ever told in comics, period.  As Tom DeFalco makes clear in the introduction to this book, the 12-issue series was simply designed to sell toys.  Continuing to admit that the toy line didn't sell well, he contends that the series generated massive sales for Marvel.  Well, generating massive sales and earning them are two different things in the comic world, where back issues of once-blockbuster comics often end up not being worth the paper they're printed on.  While SW certainly was a huge deal in the '80s, the release of this trade collection 20 years later got me wondering: was it really justified?<br /><br />I was there when Secret Wars made its debut in comic shops throughout the US, and like any other 13-year-old, I was thrilled to see my favorite heroes and villains square off on a grand scale, similar to the old Silver Age DC team books.  In Secret Wars, the stakes were high, as the winning team, heroes or villains, would receive their hearts' desires from an entity known only as &#34;The Beyonder&#34;, who had spirited these characters away to an alien world and goaded them into combat.  Even better, some events from Secret Wars tied into other titles and had major effects, most notably Peter Parker's alien costume.  Having these fond recollections, I shelled out a wallet-busting thirty bucks for the new softcover printing on nice glossy paper, despite having sworn recently that I would never buy another of these overpriced trades again.  If only I had stuck to my guns.<br /><br />Anyway, twenty years later I read this story and find that Tom DeFalco's introduction is absolutely correct: this is a 350-page advertisement for a toy line, and an utter crap-fest.  The story, by Jim Shooter, is clumsy at best - very surprising for such an accomplished writer.  The initial issue sets up the plot at breakneck speed, skipping quite a bit of exposition and leaving out major points that, when introduced later, are inexplicably glossed over (for example, supporting characters that appear from nowhere).  Then, frequent stalls and boring characterization continue for the remainder of the book. By the 4th issue, I just didn't care anymore, but I had to force myself to finish in order to give a complete review.  The further I got into it, however, I became aware of printing problems that I see more and more frequently in Marvel's books:  sloppy coloring and low resolution.  While they certainly did put some effort into Mike Zeck's beautiful cover, the interiors are dull and soft, apparently having been reprinted from the comics instead of the line art.  So what I'm saying is that even Amazon's discounted price isn't justified for this mess.  It's bad enough that the story is awful, but then to charge so much for this book with little concern for quality is unconscionable.  Marvel, you have deemed a 3rd-rate story worthy of fancy treatment, yet not followed through.  You get an F.r (for example, supporting characters that appear from nowhere).  Then, frequent stalls and boring characterization continue for the remainder of the book. By the 4th issue, I just didn't care anymore, but I had to force myself to finish in order to give a complete review.  The further I got into it, however, I became aware of printing problems that I see more and more frequently in Marvel's books:  sloppy coloring and low resolution.  While they certainly did put some effort into Mike Zeck's beautiful cover, the interiors are dull and soft, apparently having been reprinted from the comics instead of the line art.  So what I'm saying is that even Amazon's discounted price isn't justified for this mess.  It's bad enough that the story is awful, but then to charge so much for this book with little concern for quality is unconscionable.  Marvel, you have deemed a 3rd-rate story worthy of fancy treatment, yet not followed through.  You get an F.	2005-08-29
US	51717849	R1NYZRYE3BXKCU	1563899671	685031307	Batman: Year Two - Fear the Reaper (Batman (Graphic Novels))	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Not the best bat-collection, but there are certainly worse ones	This trade paperback collects two related storylines:  BATMAN YEAR TWO, from DETECTIVE COMICS #575 - 578, and the one-shot BATMAN: FULL CIRCLE.  While it may seem natural to combine these into one book, they don't go together very well in terms of story quality.<br /><br />The unfortunately named BATMAN YEAR TWO immediately invites comparisons with Miller and Mazuchelli's BATMAN YEAR ONE, and in this regard, it doesn't hold up; however, it is a fairly engaging story.  In the second year of Bruce Wayne's war on crime, he is confronted with the return of The Reaper, a crime fighter from Gotham's past.  The problem is, this Reaper is little different from the criminal element in Gotham City, and so Batman works both with and without the police department to bring him in.  The quest to bring down the Reaper causes no small share of problems in the life of Bruce Wayne, and by the end of the story, Batman has been put through the ringer.  While Mike Barr is not my favorite Batman writer, he does a good job of keeping the plot focused.  The art chores for BATMAN YEAR TWO begin with Alan Davis, one of the best in the biz, doing only one issue, with justly-maligned Todd McFarlane picking up parts 2 - 4.  Artwise, the first two parts of McFarlane's work are actually pretty good, but this is due more to the skilled inking of Alfredo Alcala than to any talent of Mr. McFarlane.  This can be clearly seen in part 4, where McFarlane flies solo - trust me, it shows.  If I have any complaint story-wise, I'd say that Batman seems far too capable and confident.  Even after a year on the job, I wouldn't expect him to be this resourceful.<br /><br />Next is BATMAN: FULL CIRCLE, a completely unworthy follow-up prestige format tale by Barr & Davis.  In this story, the Reaper has again returned, spreading fear throughout Gotham and playing with Batman Batman must confront the secrets of his parents' murders once again - at the risk of his own sanity (yawn!).  This story was by no means up to par with Year Two; in fact, it was very trite and boring, with all kinds of inexplicable developments that were conveniently explained as having happened either during or as a result of YEAR TWO.<br /><br />So, this trade collection starts with a bang and ends with a whimper.  You may be better off if you can find the original trade collection of BATMAN YEAR TWO, which omits the FULL CIRCLE story.  It certainly works better that way.r Two; in fact, it was very trite and boring, with all kinds of inexplicable developments that were conveniently explained as having happened either during or as a result of YEAR TWO.      So, this trade collection starts with a bang and ends with a whimper.  You may be better off if you can find the original trade collection of BATMAN YEAR TWO, which omits the FULL CIRCLE story.  It certainly works better that way.	2005-08-24
US	51717849	R3217LNVMWPVJC	1563896389	805986034	Superman in the Seventies	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Look!  Up in the sky!  It's "God-Man!"	I never paid much attention to Superman before Crisis on Infinite Earths.  In my earlier years, I preferred the more humanized heroes from Marvel to the world-recognized icons from DC.  Lately, I've been reading DC's Superman \\"decade collections\\" in order to find out more about the history of the Man of Steel.  SUPERMAN IN THE SEVENTIES can best be described as a good, if somewhat overwhelming, choice.<br /><br />This book is proof that, after more than 3 decades of almost no editorial restraint, Superman was approaching omnipotence.  I really feel for the various writers whose work is represented in this book, as I'm sure it would be very difficult to write a character that has no limits.  While I am not that big of a fan of the changes that resulted from COIE, SUPERMAN IN THE SEVENTIES convinces me that, in the case of Superman at least, the \\"big wipe\\" was necessary.  The stories presented here show a Superman who is stuck in a loop, a never-ending display of increasingly unlimited powers:  when you have a hero who can get himself out of any seemingly hopeless situation, you have to have villains who can make the next situation seem even MORE hopeless.  Then, of course, the hero must come up with yet another amazing solution to that more hopeless situation, and on and on.  Eventually, this leads to implausibility and outright ridiculousness (yes, even for a comic!).  By the time I finished this collection, I knew exactly what the editors and writers at DC were thinking when they decided to pull the curtain in the mid-`80s.<br /><br />Don't get me wrong: I don't hate the stories collected in SUPERMAN IN THE SEVENTIES.  In fact, I enjoyed this book very much.  The stories are both grandiose and crazy.  Considering that, in general, comics were finally maturing somewhat in the `70s, I am fascinated that the Superman stories could retain such a `50s - `60s sense of wonder.  These pages contain all kinds of over-the-top weirdness, such as Superman moving everyone on Earth into an alternate dimension to escape Lex Luthor's \\"galactic golem\\", and Lois Lane becoming a black woman for a day.  The secret to enjoying this book is to remember just how powerful Superman was back in the day, and then seeing how the writer of each story does their best to make him interesting.  Most of them do a great job, definitely making it a worthwhile read.<br /><br />The only real complaint I have for the book is that too many of the stories begin or end abruptly.  Multi-parters were not included in their entirety, so some of what takes the stories from \\"good\\" to \\"exceptional\\" is unfortunately left out.ernate dimension to escape Lex Luthor's \\"galactic golem\\", and Lois Lane becoming a black woman for a day.  The secret to enjoying this book is to remember just how powerful Superman was back in the day, and then seeing how the writer of each story does their best to make him interesting.  Most of them do a great job, definitely making it a worthwhile read.    The only real complaint I have for the book is that too many of the stories begin or end abruptly.  Multi-parters were not included in their entirety, so some of what takes the stories from \\"good\\" to \\"exceptional\\" is unfortunately left out.	2005-07-19
US	51717849	R1PEQ71PTQGSVN	1401203396	352760901	Superman: The Greatest Stories Ever Told, Vol. 1	Books	1	15	22	N	N	DC cannibalizes a classic trade paperback	Well, I had this hard-hitting review planned until I saw the review by Mr. Klees which captured all of my points fairly well.  So, with a nod to him, I will tone it down and echo some similar sentiments regarding this horrible \\"semi-reprint\\".  SUPERMAN: THE GREATEST STORIES EVER TOLD is a rare example of DC comics royally screwing up a trade paperback.<br /><br />In the late `80s, DC released a trade collection titled THE GREATEST SUPERMAN STORIES EVER TOLD (referred to hereafter as \\"V1.0\\"), which gave a fairly good representation of some of the best Superman stories of the past 50-odd years.  I had no real interest in Superman before the mid-`80s, but after having become engrossed in John Byrne's post-Crisis revamp of the Man of Steel, I picked up the V1.0 trade with somewhat moderate hopes of tiding myself over.  In short, I was amazed at how enjoyable and fun the classic Superman stories were.  I eventually lost track of that copy, and as I've grown older and had a chance to read more and more Superman stories, I've realized that, while V1.0 may not truly be the greatest, it was a good attempt, and a nice book to have on the shelf.<br /><br />When the recent \\"replacement\\" trade SUPERMAN: THE GREATEST STORIES EVER TOLD (referred to as \\"V2.0\\") was released, I unfortunately bought it without a second glance, as I was sure I had another chance to own those collected stories I enjoyed so much as a teen... WRONG!!!  This book is an almost completely different collection.  First off, it's cut by about 140 pages, yet costs five bucks more than V1.0.  While it does retain a few stories from the first book, the missing stories are too much to ignore.  DC's stated reasoning for this is that, since some of the stories in V1.0 had since been reprinted elsewhere, they didn't warrant repeating here.  Well, how about this, DC: maybe the fact that they've been reprinted so often is an indication that they truly ARE great!<br /><br />So, gone are many awe-inspiring or just-plain-fun tales from V1.0.  In V2.0, they are replaced with stories such as \\"What's So Funny About Truth, Justice, and the American Way\\", which is really too recent to have proven itself as one of Superman's \\"greatest\\" stories, and, of course, Jim Steranko's much-hailed \\"Exile at the Edge of Eternity\\", which, while it does have some amazingly beautiful art, suffers from a hackneyed plot.<br /><br />Luckily, after some searching, I was able to find a pristine copy of V1.0.  They're still out there, so I recommend you invest a little time in finding that one instead of the unnecessary V2.0.  The same thing has happened with the Dark Knight, as THE GREATEST BATMAN STORIES EVER TOLD has been replaced with BATMAN: THE GREATEST STORIES EVER TOLD.  That original book is also not too hard to find.  Happy hunting....  In V2.0, they are replaced with stories such as \\"What's So Funny About Truth, Justice, and the American Way\\", which is really too recent to have proven itself as one of Superman's \\"greatest\\" stories, and, of course, Jim Steranko's much-hailed \\"Exile at the Edge of Eternity\\", which, while it does have some amazingly beautiful art, suffers from a hackneyed plot.     Luckily, after some searching, I was able to find a pristine copy of V1.0.  They're still out there, so I recommend you invest a little time in finding that one instead of the unnecessary V2.0.  The same thing has happened with the Dark Knight, as THE GREATEST BATMAN STORIES EVER TOLD has been replaced with BATMAN: THE GREATEST STORIES EVER TOLD.  That original book is also not too hard to find.  Happy hunting...	2005-07-14
US	51717849	R3JUM6NB6PU5CS	1563895005	529120673	Batman: Strange Apparitions	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A superb interpretation of Batman	BATMAN: STRANGE APPARITIONS collects the beginning of what is, in my mind, the definitve Batman.  These stories introduce the writer/artist team of Steve Englehart and Marshal Rogers, ably inked by the great Terry Austin.  These guys redefined the style and look of Batman in the late `70s, reestablishing him as the guardian of Gotham City (let's face it, while Ra's al Ghul is a neat villain, Batman has no place globetrotting after international criminals), and placing him against such criminals as Dr. Phosphorous, Hugo Strange, the Penguin, Deadshot, and the Joker.  What's so interesting about these stories is how well-versed Englehart is in the dark knight's history, in some cases picking up plot threads from Golden Age Batman and Detective Comics stories - if you know your Batman history from numerous DC Archives, there are more than a few incidents in this book that will jog your memory.  Rogers packs the pages with sharp, detailed artwork that is full of nods to the Golden and Silver Ages.  All in all, these stories are like a unification of the Golden-, Silver-, and Bronze-Age versions of Batman, and the team pulls it off stunningly.  Also featuring work by Len Wein and Walt Simonson, the book collects DETECTIVE COMICS #469-479.	2005-07-11
US	51717849	R3H7HH9BXBF3LY	1416504079	91188427	Battlestar Galactica Classic: The Saga of A Star World	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Stick with the original.	Following the big Battlestar Galactica revamp, I am happy to see that dependable out-of-print sci-fi publisher iBooks decided to reprint the original series of novels by Robert Thurston and Glen Larson.  Before I get into the actual review, I'll start by praising the publisher for something that has nothing to do with the quality of the story, but was a huge selling-point for me:  the use of Frank Frazetta's original BG television advertising art for the book cover.  This is a beautiful piece, and any time a publisher will use Frazetta's work as intended, instead of getting some cheap no-talent, you have to give them a hand.<br /><br />Anyway, on to the work itself...  I am not too keen on the Sci-Fi Network's version of BG, as it seems to rely too much on elements of other space fantasies.  Neither am I interested in Richard Hatch's BG novels, so rather than invest my time in these diversions, I decided to go back to the source.  As a youngster, I wasn't into Battlestar Galactica \\"quite\\" as much as the original Star Wars trilogy (pre-Special Edition, mind you), but I've always held a spot in my heart for creator Glen Larson's saga.  The ties to ancient astronauts, mythology, and Judaism really got my imagination going, and I always felt it was unfortunate that the TV series didn't rely more heavily upon these plot points (I was fully expecting BG to conclude with the Galactica reaching a prehistoric Earth, oh well...).  Now about 99% of TV-to-novel adaptations I've read, and any stories based upon them, are absolute garbage, but thankfully, BG: SAGA OF A STAR WORLD was a welcome change.  The book was written in 1978 by Robert Thurston, based off of Larson's screenplay, and I feel that Thurston does an excellent job.  He's a very good writer, not given to trite phrasing, and able to expand on points from the pilot episode and give these characters some personality, even the seemingly inaccessible Imperious Leader.  There are a few moments that don't quite fit with the pilot episode, but that just adds to the uniqueness of the story, and Thurston provides enough supporting information that it doesn't even become a problem.  Additionally, each chapter begins with an excerpt from \\"The Adama Journals\\", where you discover bits of information and history that put the entire story into perspective.  In general, this is a good sci-fi adventure that should throw more than a few switches in the old memory.  If you're a reader of various Star Wars or Star Trek novels, or even if you're just a general sci-fi fan, this will provide you with a good time.ot episode, but that just adds to the uniqueness of the story, and Thurston provides enough supporting information that it doesn't even become a problem.  Additionally, each chapter begins with an excerpt from \\"The Adama Journals\\", where you discover bits of information and history that put the entire story into perspective.  In general, this is a good sci-fi adventure that should throw more than a few switches in the old memory.  If you're a reader of various Star Wars or Star Trek novels, or even if you're just a general sci-fi fan, this will provide you with a good time.	2005-06-22
US	51717849	R1B0VHIVYYSO6U	0785117849	54844412	Giant-Size Marvel TPB	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Welcome to the time when Giant(-Size)s walked the Earth!	While I have not been impressed with the majority of Marvel's choices for their recent \\"high-quality\\" format (aka: overpriced) trade paperbacks, GIANT-SIZE MARVEL is a welcome addition to the ranks.  You'll shell out some dough for this one, but you know what?  It's actually worth it.<br /><br />For a `70s Marvel zombie like myself, this trade paperback is pure candy, as it collects a good chunk of the comics published under the Giant-Size banner.  The featured stories are from Giant-Size Fantastic Four #4, Giant-Size Avengers #1, Giant-Size Defenders #4, Giant-Size Super-Heroes #1 (Spider-Man), Giant-Size Invaders #1, Giant-Size X-Men #1, and Giant-Size Creatures #1 (Werewolf by Night).  For the most part, the G-S books were reserved for special stories: either intros of new characters, major revelations, or plot developments.  Consider that this book contains the introductions of Madrox the Multiple Man, Nuklon, the Invaders, Master Man, and Tigra; a shocking revelation from the Whizzer (stop laughing); the return of the Squadron Sinister; the formation of the new X-Men; and Spider-Man vs. both Man-Wolf AND Morbius!  That's more than enough material to fill any fanboy's plate and leave them satisfied.  While this trade may not qualify as a \\"best of Marvel\\" to some, it's certainly a collection of quality stories that should give any reader a clear sign of why Marvel ruled the `70s.<br /><br />As far as the line-up of talent goes, it's a who's who:  writers Len Wein, Roy Thomas, Steve Gerber, Don McGregor, Roger Slifer, and Gerry Conway are teamed with artists Dave Cockrum, John Buscema, Rich Buckler, Don Heck, Gil Kane, Frank Robbins and Don Perlin.  In contrast to most Marvel reprints, the color looks superb (though I didn't know the FF's Human Torch had worn a red and yellow uniform at one time???).  Also, here's a special mention in the art department:  I have to give props to Don Heck - while I have never been a fan of his, his penciling on G-S Defenders is primo.	2005-06-21
US	51717849	R1IOR0VBSC8XLD	1401204740	665268202	Wrath of the Spectre	Books	5	19	19	N	N	More Spectre reprints, please!	Woo-hah!  I had a lot of fun reading this book.<br /><br />The Spectre is one of DC's earlier heroes, first appearing in 1940.  Murdered police detective Jim Corrigan returns from the dead to fight injustice with a double-whammy, both as his \\"formerly human\\" self and as the spirit of vengeance, the Spectre.  In the early 1970s, writer Michael Fleisher and artist Jim Aparo revived the character in a form far more dramatic than his original Golden Age style.  This revitalized Spectre dished out retribution to criminals in some fairly bizarre and gruesome forms:  the body of an airplane hijacker is stripped to the bone.  A homicidal hairdresser gets cut in half by a pair of giant scissors.  A deceptive mystic is turned into glass and shatters into a hundred pieces.  Yes, this hero has no qualms with killing!  Fleisher and Aparo's approach to the Spectre was somewhat shocking for the time, but very effective (so much so that it was carried over to great effect in Ostrander & Mandrake's early '90s Spectre series, another work in dire need of reprints).  Jim Corrigan and the Spectre share equal time, with Corrigan investigating the case and figuring out who's guilty, and the Spectre showing up to take names and dish out the supernatural punishment.<br /><br />This trade paperback is sure to be a hit with fans of EC's classic horror comics. It's modern horror with more than a healthy dose of the surreal, and a morbid punch for the finish.  And there's some elements that are obviously a nod to EC, such as variations on the classic interjection \\"Good lord! (choke)\\", or the victims' blood-curdling screams: \\"EEEEEYAAAAAAAH!!!!\\"  The edge that the Spectre has over Tales from the Crypt is that you get an ongoing character to carry the action, plus the stories don't begin and end with bad puns.<br /><br />For the most part, each story is around 12 pages, just enough to set up the plot and let the Spectre exercise judgment.  The writing is tight, and the art... oh, the art!  Beautiful work from Aparo: fine-line realism (just a hint of Neal Adams), which got my attention even as a kid and simply amazes me now.  The book collects stories from Adventure Comics #431-440 and issue #4 of the `80s reprint series Wrath of the Spectre (the WotS series reprinted these shorter tales and added a then-recently completed story by Fleisher and Aparo that looks just as good as the earlier work).  THE WRATH OF THE SPECTRE tpb is a well-deserved reprint of quality material.: fine-line realism (just a hint of Neal Adams), which got my attention even as a kid and simply amazes me now.  The book collects stories from Adventure Comics #431-440 and issue #4 of the `80s reprint series Wrath of the Spectre (the WotS series reprinted these shorter tales and added a then-recently completed story by Fleisher and Aparo that looks just as good as the earlier work).  THE WRATH OF THE SPECTRE tpb is a well-deserved reprint of quality material.	2005-06-14
US	51717849	RO5CC2RZD7HT9	1401202306	263759724	Green Lantern/Green Arrow Collection - Volume 2	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Still relevant	Volume 2 of a trade collection of Denny O'Neil and Neal Adams' GL/GA team-ups, this book collects the remaining stories from GL #83-87, 89, plus a handfull of backups from from The Flash.  As in the first volume, these stories from 1970 are full of harsh social commentary that sometimes borders on the absurd.  Nevertheless, they make a point and bring important issues to the fore in comics, a medium that, up to that time, was notorious for ignoring such.  In many cases, the final point of each story forces the reader to take a look at themselves, wondering what they would do in the same situation.  Particularly outstanding is the two-part story in which Green Arrow finds that his former sidekick, Speedy of the Teen Titans, is a drug addict: quite a powerful conclusion that doesn't put on the brakes.  Neal Adams' artwork for these stories is simply stunning.  These heroes have never looked, and maybe never will look, so good again.  The pencils enable the reader to feel the rage and anguish on their faces.<br /><br />While I will always feel that these stories are overwhelming in their yearning to address the problems of their particular era, these issues are just as relevant today.  You can still see racism, corporate greed, drug use, and pollution everywhere you look, so DC is doing a good thing by reprinting these stories.  It seems that, even though we are more aware, times really never change.	2005-06-09
US	51717849	R2LX4UXJN8FFCG	1401204457	533833920	Batman Chronicles, Vol. 1	Books	5	46	47	N	N	"I'm Batman"???  No, THIS is Batman!	Batman Chronicles Volume 1 begins an ambitious task: the complete color reprinting of every Batman story in chronological order.  I say bring it on, and please don't spare other long-standing Golden Age characters, such as Superman, Wonder Woman, Dr. Fate, Hawkman, etc.  True, DC also gives us the Archives series, but they are far too expensive for me, and they really are too \\"clean\\" - seeing Detective Comics #27 reproduced on bright white archival paper just doesn't have the same appeal as the newsprint used for BC Volume 1.  I can only hope that the publishing schedule is fairly quick; otherwise, I'll still be reading this series in the retirement home (or maybe having the nurse read it to me).<br /><br />Prior to this, I had never read any Golden Age Batman beyond the brief, frequently reprinted origin story.  Finishing this book, which collects DETECTIVE COMICS #27-37 and BATMAN #1, I realized a few things:  first, the Batman of the Golden Age is a very different character from what we know today.  Second, while many fans bemoan the campy Silver Age stories and TV show that turned the caped crusader into a joke, the first few Golden Age stories were just as crazy.  Consider that, in the first half of this book, Batman:<br /><br />- kills several criminals (even snapping one's neck with a kick)<br />- fights a giant gorilla<br />- travels to eastern Europe in the Bat-Gyro (Wow, that's > 10 hours, even in a jet! How does he relieve himself? Pitch it over the side?)<br />- fends off werewolves<br />- is strapped to a giant millstone that spins at crushing speeds<br />- is immobilized by the \\"irresistible power\\" of hypnosis<br />- encounters talking flowers (with human faces = disturbing!) that assist him in escaping a trap<br /><br />Completely random.  Totally ridiculous.  But taken in context, immensely entertaining.  The second half of the book shows Batman approaching what we know today, with more direction and the introductions of Hugo Strange, the Joker, and of course, Robin the Boy Wonder.  For fifteen bucks retail, this is a steal.  I must also give approval to the design of the book - nice eye-catching cover, the style of which I hope will remain for the duration of the series.<br /><br />One last thing: there are two oddly interesting, and surely unintended, nods to future DC characters in this book.  In one story, Bruce Wayne uses the alias of \\"John Jones\\" (Martian Manhunter).  In another, Batman meets a character with no face who dresses in an overcoat and hat (the Question?).bucks retail, this is a steal.  I must also give approval to the design of the book - nice eye-catching cover, the style of which I hope will remain for the duration of the series.    One last thing: there are two oddly interesting, and surely unintended, nods to future DC characters in this book.  In one story, Bruce Wayne uses the alias of \\"John Jones\\" (Martian Manhunter).  In another, Batman meets a character with no face who dresses in an overcoat and hat (the Question?).	2005-06-06
US	51717849	R1T0L8M93G2DO	0785114882	217316047	1: Man-Thing: Whatever Knows Fear (Misc)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Surprisingly good story, plus extras	I suspect that the 3-issue limited series MAN-THING: WHATEVER KNOWS FEAR... was really released by Marvel as a sort of advance apology for their dreaded Man-Thing movie, which went from a proposed cinematic release to a video release to a final premiere on the Sci-Fi Channel (not a good sign there).  The surprising thing is, the series actually has a decent story.  Written by Hans Rodionoff and illustrated with appropriate creepiness by Kyle Hotz, it gives a sort of prequel to the movie, but I say it's 100x better.  The story follows the activities of no-nonsense insurance claim adjuster Nathan Mehr, who arrives in a Louisiana town to substantiate claims of vandalism at a construction site.  Of course, it's not \\"quite\\" the kind of vandalism he expects, and his investigation leads him into a confrontation with everyone's favorite empathic bog-monster.  Rodionoff writes an engaging (and somewhat funny) story, presenting a main character who, in a welcome turn of events, is not portrayed as some typical macho, cool, hip dude, but simply as an adjuster whose primary motivation is to do his job.  Hotz' artwork continues to break further away from his early Kelly Jones lookalike style, but it remains equally as dark, and his detailed rendering gives the Man-Thing the appearance of a monster that is truly made of the swamp, rather than just a pile of muck.<br /><br />There are three extras, as well:  the first Man-Thing story from SAVAGE TALES #1 (beautiful work); ADVENTURE INTO FEAR #16, a fairly boring story that apparently inspired the movie (complete with a hilarious fight scene between body-building construction workers and kung-fu protestors); and some of Hotz' pencils for panels and various covers.	2005-05-02
US	51717849	R2Q06QTOII07FA	0785108009	701932571	Spider-Man Visionaries, Vol. 1: Todd McFarlane	Books	3	16	20	N	N	An overall review of the Spider-Man Visionaries series	This review covers all 3 volumes of SPIDER-MAN VISIONARIES: TODD MCFARLANE, in order to let potential purchasers know what they're in for.  These books collect issues 298 - 323, 325, 328, and Annual #10 of The Amazing Spider-Man.  First off, in the past, I have voiced my disdain for Marvel's issuing \\"Visionaries\\" based solely on an artist rather than writer or writer/artist, and this is one of the prime examples.  I think Marvel did writer David Michelinie a real disservice by listing McFarlane as the visionary.  Sure, Todd was the hot artist at the time, but Michelinie crafted some fun scripts that really exploited Todd's artistic style and served as a almost 30-issue primer of most of Spidey's classic villains.  No matter how good the art is, you need a worthwhile writer to back it up.  In these issues, the writing is very involving, for the most part, and quite funny at times.  It would be more appropriate to list both of these guys as the visionaries, as they both made the series a success.<br /><br />On to the stories: after a two-issue warm up, we jump right into the first Venom storyline.  Following issues are primarily one-shots, which have some unifying background plots, but serve primarily to make good use of Spidey's villains, as well as his supporting cast - while Peter Parker may be getting older, they are an essential part of his character (you just can't have Spider-Man without Aunt May, Flash Thompson, JJJ, and the rest of the gang).  Some new characters help to keep things fresh.  A few small complaints I have about Michelinie's writing are, he tries too hard at times to be funny - some of his jokes are real groaners, and quite dated when read today (I think that these comics would hold up a bit better without references to Pee-Wee Herman and Jane Fonda).  Also, while I understand that Peter and MJ are married and do things that couples do, I could do without the sexual innuendo in their dialogue.  Fortunately, this smooths out in the later volumes.<br /><br />McFarlane's art in these stories is not as good as the work he did for The Hulk.  Over the course of these 3 Spider-Man volumes, you unfortunately see his art metamorphose from fairly restrained into the exaggerated style he would exhibit in his own Spider-Man series, where he got a free ride as both \\"writer\\" and artist.  His human figures start off looking fairly normal and eventually become the doughy potato heads we love to hate.  MJ's hair and \\"chest\\" get bigger and bigger, her outfits get skimpier, and cheesecake shots abound.  Venom's smile eventually consumes his head, and capes go from simple affairs to complex, physically impossible geometric figures.  The reproduction of these issues is okay, but the recoloring stinks, as with most Marvel reprints.  Colors frequently bleed outside the lines, and I can't figure out the doorman at Bedford Towers: so is he black or white?  Depends on the month, apparently.<br /><br />Some final cautions on these 3 volumes:<br />1) be aware that, at the time, there were 3 Spider-Man books on the shelves (Amazing, Peter Parker, and Web of SM), and their plots frequently wove together.  There are numerous references to events in the other titles that hurt the smooth progression of the stories in Amazing Spider-Man, so every so often, you'll be hit from left field with a situation or character that was introduced months before in another title.  While this made for interesting reading when these comics were originally released, now it only serves to confuse.<br />2) At the end of volume 3, you get slapped with an unwelcome 6-part(!) storyline that really drags compared to the more concise material in earlier books.  What's really awful about this particular storyline is that part 5 is not included.  Why?  Because it was drawn by Erik Larsen!!!  That's right: because these books focus on Todd McFarlane, you are denied a complete storyline!  Unbelievable!  They show the cover for the issue, with a short blurb in the corner that summarizes the issue, then on to part 6 like nothing happened.  Marvel, I think it's time to end the focus on artists if it results in sloppy garbage like this.ssue, then on to part 6 like nothing happened.  Marvel, I think it's time to end the focus on artists if it results in sloppy garbage like this.	2005-04-14
US	51717849	RLGYP7J25POZN	1401205798	195700266	Skizz	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Decent work from Alan Moore	While this certainly isn't the greatest story to ever appear in Britain's 2000AD magazine, writer Alan Moore and artist Jim Baikie do a serviceable job, telling the tale of a peaceful alien crash landing on Earth, and the not-so-peaceful government authorities who want him at any cost.  Luckily, our hero \\"Skizz\\" has a group of sympathetic Earthlings who just want to help him return home.  If this sounds familiar, well, it's basically \\"ET\\" set in Birmingham, England, with a bit more serious and practical tone.  This is very generic work from Moore, and it shows in comparison to his later masterpieces.  Still, SKIZZ is an engaging tale, with excellent characterization, and some genuinely funny moments.	2005-04-08
US	51717849	RHL1V3O4VKX84	1401205801	102078003	Judge Dredd: Dredd VS. Death (Judge Dredd (Graphic Novels))	Books	5	6	6	N	N	AKA: The Best of Dredd!	I'm very thankful for DC/2000AD's reprint series, as it's about time these 2000AD classics were made newly available here in the States.  JUDGE DREDD: DREDD VS. DEATH collects material written by Alan Grant & John Wagner, and illustrated by the incomparable Brian Bolland.  About half of this collection consists of stories featuring Judge Death, perhaps the greatest Dredd villain of all time.  He's an other-dimensional Judge who has determind that life is a crime - so everyone must die!  The  stories begin with his arrival in Mega-City 1 and proceed to his resurrection by the remaining 3 Dark Judges.  The remainder of the book consists of one-shot stories that are much more light-hearted in tone; some, in fact, are quite funny.  Grant and Wagner get a thumbs-up for the writing.  As for Bolland, these issues of 2000AD established his reputation as one of the greatest illustrators in comics.  For someone who works in fine-line, his style is very photo-realistic, giving Dredd's universe more depth and shadow.  In fact, I first read these stories when I was 12 or so, and some of the images from the Judge Death tales still creep me out to this day.  These Dredd stories are the best ever, so even if you're not a fan, I say to check them out.	2005-04-08
US	51717849	R1A1PYHIYW2S8	1593073011	495838868	Conan Volume 1: The Frost Giant's Daughter and Other Stories	Books	4	15	30	N	N	Not what I had hoped for, but it was still enjoyable	Soon after it was announced that Robert E. Howard's character Conan the Barbarian would be handled by writer Kurt Busiek and artist Cary Nord for Dark Horse Comics, a short preview issue was released to show readers what they were in for.  The result was a frenzy: it was obvious that Busiek knew how to start the series off right by adapting the Hyborian Chronicles, and Cary Nord did an excellent job of capturing the decadent style and intensity of the paintings of Frank Frazetta, especially with Dave Stewart's coloring being applied directly to Nord's pencils.  After reading the trade paperback CONAN: THE FROST GIANT'S DAUGHTER AND OTHER STORIES, it's obvious that these guys can deliver; however, I'm somewhat disappointed with the direction DHC is taking with this series.<br /><br />My disappointment stems from the fact that I was hoping for something that focused more on REH's original tales, with a minimal amount of new material.  This Dark Horse trade collects issues 0 - 6 and part of 7, and in that entire space, there are only TWO stories from REH (the aformentioned intro and The Frost Giant's Daughter).  The rest are new stories which serve to link the REH tales, and while I do like Busiek's method of building them out of the originals, it's the pacing that bugs me.  Knowing how comic creators bounce back and forth between projects these days, with no real long-term commitments, my fear is that there may only be a handful of actual REH stories adapted by Busiek and Nord before one or both gets tired and goes on to something else.	2005-04-05
US	51717849	R31OQ5Z6W9BSMT	0929729021	882458160	Alter Ego: The Graphic Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great fun for fans of the Golden Age	Roy Thomas is truly the standard-bearer for the appreciation of the Golden Age of comics.  Have you ever read his Infinity Incorporated?  JSA?  All-Star Squadron?  The Avengers' Kree-Skrull War?  Well, suffice to say that Thomas is the guy that made me care about Golden Age superheroes.  Even his magazine Alter Ego covers aspects of the Golden Age in painstaking detail.<br /><br />ALTER EGO: THE GRAPHIC NOVEL collects the four issue series originally published by First Comics.  The adventures of Alter Ego grew out of Thomas' magazine, and it carries a similar theme - the appreciation of Golden Age superhero comics, warts and all.  Rob Lindsay, an average teen-ager, stumbles upon what appears to be an old comic premium: the mask of the Golden Age hero Alter Ego.  When Rob dons the mask, he is trasported into a comic world and becomes Alter Ego, leading the \\"Limbo Legion\\" into battle against the Crimson Claw.  The Claw has designs on conquering both the comic book world and Rob's \\"real\\" world, and he'll stop at nothing to do it.  But there's more to the story, involving a mysterious connection between the two characters, and the involvement of Rob's grandfather.  While the dialogue does unfortunately stumble here and there, it's a good solid story that should appeal to fans of Rick Veitch's MAXIMORTAL, Alan Moore's SUPREME, or even James Robinson's THE GOLDEN AGE.<br /><br />This story contains several treats.  First of all, it's both an appreciation and a parody of the Golden Age of Comics.  While you can tell that Thomas loves his source material, he doesn't hesitate to poke fun at all the things that make the Golden Age somewhat annoying: the horrible expository dialogue, the absurd racial stereotypes, and the uninspired similarities between certain characters, to name a few.  Second, it features thinly disguised versions of public domain Golden Age heroes, such as the Black Terror and the original Daredevil.  Third, while the subject material may be considered quaint, it's anything but: adult language, violence, blood, and death make this a darker book than you'd expect.<br /><br />The only problem I have with this book is the art.  Ron Harris is certainly a capable artist, as evidenced by his cover and interior sketch section.  The page art, however, is quite flat and looks rushed at times.  It could be argued that it was meant to look this way as a nod to the Golden Age, but I'm not so sure.  A bit more care with the art would give this book a solid five-star rating.  But don't let that hold you back from a worthwile read.  ALTER EGO: THE GRAPHIC NOVEL is a well-deserved reprint of superb material.int, it's anything but: adult language, violence, blood, and death make this a darker book than you'd expect.<br /><br />The only problem I have with this book is the art.  Ron Harris is certainly a capable artist, as evidenced by his cover and interior sketch section.  The page art, however, is quite flat and looks rushed at times.  It could be argued that it was meant to look this way as a nod to the Golden Age, but I'm not so sure.  A bit more care with the art would give this book a solid five-star rating.  But don't let that hold you back from a worthwile read.  ALTER EGO: THE GRAPHIC NOVEL is a well-deserved reprint of superb material.	2005-02-28
US	51717849	RZWLBJKOJI3QI	0785114696	914013618	Blade: Black & White TPB	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Hey, at least the art is good!	I certainly don't feel that BLADE: BLACK AND WHITE is a must-have, as it costs the same as a Marvel Essential with only 1/4 of the page count.  It's just a handful of random stories from throughout Blade's vampire-hunting career, unnecessarily reprinted on glossy paper.  It's a nice supplement, however, for all the fans who have been going crazy over Marvel's thorough reprinting of Tomb of Dracula in the Essential format.<br /><br />This book collects black and white material from VAMPIRE TALES #8-9, MARVEL PREVIEW #3 and #6, BLADE: CRESCENT CITY BLUES #1, and MARVEL SHADOWS AND LIGHT #1.  For the most part, the stories are general Marvel horror fare:  flimsy plots with lead characters who babble incessantly while fighting legions of the undead (and even remarking to themselves that they do it!).  The Crescent City Blues story does improve on this a bit, even taking a dig at those earlier stories, but even this one runs low on steam towards the end.  But still, as with any Marvel horror comic, the real star is the art, and BLADE: BLACK AND WHITE has impressive art galore:  Tony deZuniga's textured fine-line, Jose Ladronn's weird Kirby/Giffen amalgam, and of course, the ultimate Dracula artist Gene Colan, who provides his always beautiful art for two stories, plus the cover.  The work of Gene Colan is always worth the price of admission, but I'd say that this book is for TOD fans only.	2005-02-21
US	51717849	R3289G4N1SD6JE	0871359448	563595798	Infinity Gauntlet TPB	Books	5	124	135	N	N	Cosmic craziness with a great conclusion	I'm a big fan of comic writers taking a stab at what could be considered the final story for a character.  I've endured a never-ending loop of stories about my favorites, and every so often, it's nice to see someone take their shot at wrapping it up. Batman has \\"Dark Knight Returns\\", the Avengers have \\"The Last Avengers Story\\", and in 1990, Thanos kinda-sorta received his, courtesy of writer Jim Starlin and artists George Perez and Ron Lim.  To many readers, THE INFINITY GAUNTLET  established Thanos as one of the major villains in the Marvel Universe, leading to bigger and better things, but I look at it in another way. I feel that THE INFINITY GAUNTLET can serve as the perfect \\"last Thanos story\\", and I prefer it as such, instead of it leading to more stories, such as Infinity War and Infinity Watch.<br /><br />THE INFINITY GAUNTLET is a continuation of a story that originated in both the regular Silver Surfer series and the THANOS QUEST limited series.  The gauntlet is perhaps the most powerful item in the Marvel Universe, as it bestows upon the wearer absolute control over time, space, power, the soul, the mind, and reality.  Thanos obtains the gauntlet in order to finally win the hand of his love, Death, through the elimination of half the population of the entire universe.  A group of Marvel heroes, one villain, and a host of cosmic characters, come together to stop him, and he fends them off with the sort of casual anoyance that any god would.  Adam Warlock, however, is onto Thanos' game and has his own tricks up his sleeve.  Warlock's true plan leads to a conclusion that I never expected in one of Jim Starlin's super-duper cosmic epics, but it makes sense and is an ironic finale for a character like Thanos.  If only it could have stayed that way.  In any case, pick up this book and prepare for a great read.	2005-02-11
US	51717849	R1XOFMR26ML486	0785111123	590972396	Fantastic Four Legends Volume 1: Unstable Molecules	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A double-take from Marvel	FANTASTIC FOUR: UNSTABLE MOLECULES... how in the world to describe this story? First off, it's great - maybe the best FF story written in the last 15 years.  However, you won't see the FF in costume, or even exhibiting their super-powers.  Why?  Simple - they don't have any!  Writer James Sturm conceived this series on the premise that Stan Lee and Jack Kirby based the FF on 4 acquaintances of theirs who were anything but fantastic.   <br /> <br />The setting is the 1950s.  The life of Susan Sturm (spelled correctly) is devoted to her thankless caring for her bitter younger brother Johnny, while trying to maintain a sense of normalcy at their home.  Her boyfriend, Reed Richards, is an unemotional research scientist who constantly puts her second.  Their friend Ben Grimm is a sad-sack who, despite his many problems, provides the only cheer in Sue's humdrum life.  If you though that the regular Fantastic Four had their share of problems, wait until you read this!   <br /> <br />FF:UM is an overpowering story, full of emotion and heartache.  It's also one of those rare and wonderful moments where comics and \\"reality\\" blur together, leaving the reader wondering if this is truly just a group of average joes, or if they will actually become the super-powered FF we know and love.  Hopefully, Sturm and artist Guy Davis won't keep us waiting much longer.   <br />	2005-02-09
US	51717849	R3AM0ZDYE2F3JC	0785114300	771822936	Alpha Flight Volume 1: You Gotta Be Kiddin' Me TPB (Marvel Heroes)	Books	1	8	9	N	N	Perhaps the most aptly-titled trade paperback ever	When a quirky group like Alpha Flight has the fan base that it does, you have to give them credit.  This Canadian super-team, and former adversaries of the X-Men, was created by John Byrne.  They made their first appearance in X-Men #120-121 and later received their own series in 1983, written and illustrated by Byrne.  As the majority of Marvel Heroes up to that point were based in the US, Byrne had carte blanche to do whatever he wanted with the team, and his narrative style and art on the first two years of the title were golden.  Even when Byrne left, fan enthusiasm kept the title going strong for quite a while (maybe even a bit longer that perhaps it should have).<br /><br />Long-time Marvel readers would likely welcome a reprint of those original Byrne issues, and newcomers would be no worse off by getting a chance to discover this classic team.  Marvel, however, once again goes against logic by launching an \\"all-new, all-different\\" Alpha Flight series in 2004, written by Scott Lobdell.  Of course, everything that made the original series interesting is jettisoned, and the book takes a comedic slant, with disastrous results: the old-timers don't care, the newcomers have no proper reference for why this team even mattered, and the new series is cancelled after 12 issues.  So then, to add insult to injury, Marvel reprints issues #1-6 of this cancelled series as ALPHA FLIGHT: YOU GOTTA BE KIDDIN' ME, instead of the classic series!  Truly, that title could be no more appropriate: \\"you gotta be kiddin' me\\" is right.	2004-12-28
US	51717849	R2OLSX5KCP2FUH	0785101985	81742221	X-Men Visionaries: Neal Adams	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Artistic excellence, and that's about it	At times, I have difficulty with the concept of Marvel's \\"Visionaries\\" books.  When the book focuses on a writer (like Chris Claremont) or a writer/artist (like Walt Simonson or Frank Miller), it's good, as you get grade-A stories that signalled changes in direction for certain books.  When the book focuses solely on an artist, however, it's not so good, as no matter how good the art is, there's no telling what you'll get in terms of story quality.  Also, you only get issues with that artist's work, so incomplete stories and fragments can be quite prevalent.<br /><br />Such is the case with X-MEN VISIONARIES: NEAL ADAMS, spotlighting the 1969 X-Men issues illustrated by one of the greatest comic artists of all time.  One thing that you should be aware of is that, in 1969, the X-Men, currently the world's most popular super-team, was in the dumpster.  The stories were not that great, the art was generally horrible, and as a result, no one would touch this series with a ten-foot pole.  But then came Neal Adams to spice things up a bit, drawing issues 56-63 and 65, knocking people out with his realistic depictions of our beloved teenage mutants.  Artistically, these issues are excellent, and they rightly got the attention of readers.  Even with this artistic jolt, however, Roy Thomas' writing is  painfully melodramatic, and no amount of good art can fix that.  In addition, Adams' artistic chores began in the middle of an ongoing story, and as this book contains no non-Adams material, you won't get a complete story.  Also, the recoloring of these pages is horrible, so even though Marvel trumpets Adams' work, their lack of care in reprinting it doesn't back it up.<br /><br />So, this book is a great artistic experience combined with some laughable stories.  You do get a few great moments in X-Men history, such as the return of Professor X and Magneto, the intros of Sauron and the Savage Land mutants, and cameos by Ka-Zar and the Living Monolith, but X-MEN VISIONARIES: NEAL ADAMS is proof that Marvel should focus on either writers or writer/artists for these books.proof that Marvel should focus on either writers or writer/artists for these books.	2004-12-26
US	51717849	R3R1CRUTS1OSYX	0785117024	582521669	What If? Classic Vol. 1 (Marvel Heroes)	Books	3	12	16	N	N	A misfire from Marvel	WHAT IF? is one of my favorite series from Marvel, the reason being that I loved the concept.  It was a great idea from Roy Thomas in which Uatu, the Watcher, would present the events of the Marvel Universe in alternate realities.  Even better, these events usually cast a harder or darker aspect on the characters, which, while pretty far-out, always made me happy that we ended up with the Marvel Universe that we did.<br /><br />While I consider many WHAT IF? stories to be classics, the early issues weren't all that well-written, and the artwork was sub-standard, for the most part.  Aside from an Avengers issue illustrated by Gil Kane, and a story of Captain America never being frozen in the Arctic, there's not much interesting material here.  Many of the ideas Thomas had for these early issues were so whacked-out and pointless, they didn't make for very interesting reading.  As such, I feel that the best way for Marvel to reprint this series is the Essentials format:  500 pages in black and white.  That way, you'd get quite a few stories that show the evolution of the series, and for a reasonable price.  Unfortunately, Marvel instead chose to release a color reprint of only the first 6 issues (~ 215 pages) for the wallet-busting price of $24.95!  I also must warn that the recoloring of these issues is absolutely horrible, with characters' costumes changing color schemes from panel to panel, and no attention to detail.  So, with a bad reprint of poor-to-average quality stories, newcomers will likely have a hard time understanding why WHAT IF? was so much fun... assuming that the ridiculous price didn't already turn them away.<br /><br />My advice is to skip this book.  If you must have it, then order it only from Amazon at a discount, as full-price is waaaay too much to pay.	2004-12-25
US	51717849	R22RF69CYSC3QV	0785110488	362846522	2: Wolverine: Meltdown (X-Men)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	How times change!	When this story was originally released in four issues, way back in the `80s, it was called HAVOK/WOLVERINE: MELTDOWN.  The fact that Wolverine shared billing with a third-tier character like Havok (even to the point of being named second in the title) shows that Wolvie, while a popular character at the time, had not reached his current \\"heavy hitter\\" status.  Over the years, unfortunately, Wolverine has grown from a likeable underdog to perhaps the most overexposed character in comics.  This is reflected in the fact that this story is now collected under the title WOLVERINE LEGENDS: MELTDOWN.<br /><br />To be honest, this IS a story that equally showcases Havok and Wolverine, as they try to determine who is responsible for ruining their Mexican vacation.  An assassination attempt separates the two X-Men, leading them around the world through a web of deception and danger, matching wits and power with the Russian villains Quark, Doctor Neutron, and General Meltdown.  Walter and Louise Simonson construct a story that, while a bit heavy on the melodrama and cheesy dialogue, is nonetheless entertaining.  They give us two heroes with very distinct personalities: Havok/Alex Summers, the cool customer, and Wolverine/Logan, the head-buster.  Regardless, they are shown to be true buddies who care for one another.  The real stars here are the artists, John J. Muth and Kent Williams, who couldn't have styles that are more different; however, their pairing works excellently, based upon a distribution of duties.  Muth handles the segments with Havok, portraying Alex Summers as a sort of James Dean type rendered in soft watercolors, with jarring plasma energy added for occasional effect.  Williams handles the segments with Wolverine, giving us a Logan that is, in my opinion, the all-time best representation of the character: short, stocky, rough, hairy, ugly, and altogether unappealing... the exact opposite of how Wolvie is depicted these days, and he was better for it.  Picture Harvey Keitel with claws, and you'll have it.<br /><br />The lesson is this:  don't read this as just a Wolverine story.  It is a Havok/Wolverine story, from a long-forgotten time at Marvel when a lesser character like Havok was treated with respect, and Wolverine was less than he is now, but actually something more.  And most importantly, it's a story of friendship.ure Harvey Keitel with claws, and you'll have it. <br /> <br />The lesson is this:  don't read this as just a Wolverine story.  It is a Havok/Wolverine story, from a long-forgotten time at Marvel when a lesser character like Havok was treated with respect, and Wolverine was less than he is now, but actually something more.  And most importantly, it's a story of friendship.   <br />	2004-12-18
US	51717849	R147CMQNKNM740	1401203221	939159460	WildC.A.T.S/Cyberforce: Killer Instinct	Books	2	12	16	N	N	The most unwarranted crossover ever	(Actually, this is not chapter 1, but the full story)<br /><br />Back in the early `90s, Jim Lee and Marc Silvestri decided they were doing a good thing by cooking up a WildCATs/Cyberforce crossover, running through Cyberforce #1-3 and WildCATs #5-7, and collected in trade format as KILLER INSTINCT.  Not that the crossover needed to occur, mind you, but with early Image, sales gimmicks and hype took precedence over any hint of quality.  The main problem is that even with best-selling miniseries and regular issues under their belts, these two super-groups lacked the character development, history, and individuality necessary for an effective crossover.  And no matter how strongly the creators felt otherwise, they absolutely could not write a decent story for their own characters.<br /><br />As a result, KILLER INSTINCT is an endless loop of fight scenes, melodrama, and horrid characterization, with little for the reader to take interest in.  It centers around Misery, a villain with ties to the pasts of both the WildCATs and Cyberforce.  The two groups meet, but instead of a team-up, it becomes an extended fight.  Is this fight due to a valid reason?  No, it's due to... MIND CONTROL (high up on the comic book cliche list).  In addition, so-called heroes freak out and risk life and limb in response to an insult.  Female characters recovering from injuries prance about in skimpy see-thru nightgowns.  And, almost everyone has a bad attitude.  One unintentionally funny aspect of the story is the liberal use of meaningless technical jargon and acronyms, the conception of which seems to have required more effort than the plot.  If you are trying to fill in the backstory of WildCATs, be warned: there just ain't much here.  You'll get a bit of info on the island of Gamorra, which plays a part in early issues of THE AUTHORITY, but that's about it.	2004-12-01
US	51717849	R33TWVHLX3FHZ1	1563899272	800233106	DV8: Neighborhood Threat	Books	1	4	10	N	N	Pure Garbage	Don't let the fact that Warren Ellis wrote this series fool you into buying the trade.  DV8: NEIGHBORHOOD THREAT is nothing like his work on Stormwatch or Authority.  It's his earliest Wildstorm work, and it shows.  DV8 is a group of super-powered youngsters who are no squeaky-clean Teen Titans.  Instead, these characters are despicable rotten no-goodniks who belong in detention.  Granted, there could be some promise here, provided it is handled with care.  If only!<br /><br />Instead of conveying the bad nature of these characters through a sensible storyline or subtle characterization, Ellis takes the easy way out, filling these stories with short bits consisting of bad attitudes, casual drug use, cursing, kinky sex/incest, and a disregard for life.  Agreed, these elements have been used in his other books, but not to the point of substituting for plot.  For good measure, Ellis inserts a few more devices from the Quentin Tarrantino School of Writing: inbred rednecks, torture, and, in the worst case of filler I've ever seen, an issue devoted solely to seeing which team member can tell the worst gross-out story.  Add to this the tired, faux-manga art of Humberto Ramos, and you've got a book that represents the worst of Wildstorm studios, or of any publisher in general.	2004-11-27
US	51717849	R8AAJQZIIHJZZ	0785110704	92432267	Marvel 1602 HC (Marvel Heroes)	Books	5	66	68	N	N	A pleasant surprise from Gaiman	As stated in other reviews I've posted on Amazon, I am a big fan of Marvel's WHAT IF concept, as well as other alternate reality stories, provided that events are presented in a logical fashion.  More often than not, however, they aren't, leaving the reader to deal with too many assumptions and unanswered questions.  When 1602 was first announced by Marvel, I was under the impression that Neil Gaiman was simply going to take the easy way out: \\"re-imagining\\" the heroes and villains of the Silver Age Marvel Universe as existing in England during the reign of Queen Elizabeth.  After reading the recently-released hardcover collection, however, I can say that this is definitely not a re-imagining, nor even a \\"what if\\" story, but more of a very original mystery with an excellent twist that makes sense.  Surprisingly, 1602 can comfortably exist within normal Marvel continuity.  As a result, I enjoyed it immensely.<br /><br />In order to not spoil the plot, I'll be as basic as possible: the Marvel Universe has arisen 360 years early, triggering the possible destruction of the universe.  Of course, it's up to the heroes, and a few villains, to try to set things right.  You'll see many familiar faces here, especially if you're moderately familiar with Marvel's Silver Age characters.  Even if not, it's not too difficult to determine who is who.  Gaiman writes a very tight story that moves quickly, and Adam Kubert's art is exceptional, especially when paired with the skilled coloring of Richard Isanove.  Scott McKowen provides beautiful woodcut covers for the series and the collection.  All contributors to this story complement each other quite well, making 1602 an essential part of any comic library.	2004-11-14
US	51717849	RT1GHGEBBLBTQ	1582403929	233359426	Jack Staff Volume 2: Soldiers (Jack Staff Tp)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Answers the one remaining question from the first book	The place to begin with Jack Staff is, of course, the first trade collection - EVERYTHING USED TO BE BLACK AND WHITE - a thorough, thrillingly overwhelming, introduction to Paul Grist's world of superheroes.  The book repeatedly mentions that,  twenty years ago, Jack Staff mysteriously retired.  With the second trade collection, JACK STAFF: SOLDIERS, you finally learn the reason.<br /><br />This book fits well with the first, as it contains many of the same characters, plus a few new ones.  As in the first book, many of the new characters bear more than a passing resemblance to classic Marvel heroes, and that's no surprise, as Jack Staff was originally conceived as a story for Marvel's hero Union Jack.  It's good that the art for this volume is in color, as you finally get to see the characters as they're meant to be seen.  It's not so good that the page count is only about 1/3 that of the 1st trade, yet almost the same price.  Another complaint is that the story frequently jumps between past and present, and it's not always made clear as to exactly where you are.  This led to my having to re-read sections several times.  So be aware that JACK STAFF: SOLDIERS, while entertaining, will not necessarily wrap you up for hours of reading, like the first volume; however, you may have to spend quite a bit of time figuring out the non-linear progression of the story.	2004-11-13
US	51717849	R1GP397E5QAC1R	1563898594	647626846	Monarchy, The: Bullets Over Babylon	Books	1	6	12	N	N	Wow, it doesn't get much worse than this	The Monarchy - yet another spin-off from the remnants of a broken Stormwatch.  Unlike THE AUTHORITY or STORMWATCH: TEAM ACHILLES, however, you will be hard-pressed to figure out what in the world is going on, much less why this title was even created.  From what I can figure, Jackson King is depressed after the demise of Stormwatch, and some unexplained phenomenon inspires him to create a new super-team.  So, he finds the members (somehow), gets a base of operations (by some method), and they are a fully-realized team by the beginning of the second issue... or something kinda sorta approximating that.  The sad part is, even though this trade paperback collects 5 comics (Authority #21 and Monarchy # 1-4), and even with 128 pages to work with (and multiple re-reads on my part), there is absolutely no coherent story.  Writer Doselle Young apparently fancies himself as a deep, hip, and edgy writer, perhaps the heir to Warren Ellis, but I feel that Ellis would have at least spent some effort to start from square one, align these scattered plotlines, and give the reader a reason to come back.  I can't imagine how someone could have stuck with The Monarchy on a monthly basis: no wonder it was cancelled.	2004-11-13
US	51717849	R12NIGSY0D5YEX	0975395815	364867810	Crossfire Volume 1: Hollywood Hero (v. 1)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Creator-Owned Excellence from the `80s	'80s comics are lately being reprinted by the ton, and I couldn't be happier.  Grimjack, Jon Sable, Alien Legion, and other creator-owned series are surfacing from legal limbo and delighting me all over again.  Recently, 2 of Mark Evanier's series for Eclipse, DNAgents and Crossfire, have been reprinted in digest-sized black and white editions.  I remember DNAgents quite clearly: I didn't like the flimsy stories at all.  A spin-off of that series, Crossfire, was a completely different matter.  I am happy to have this collection of the first 6 issues, as Evanier's talent for noir-style narrative really shines through.  I had forgotten just how good these stories are.<br /><br />As Crossfire spins out of DNAgents, this collection begins with issue #1 of his own series, introduced by a too-brief recap of the exploits of the original Crossfire, a slippery high-tech industrial spy (if there is any problem with the book, it's that this intro doesn't give enough detail for new readers). After his death, his bailbondsman, Jay Endicott, inherits his personal effects, including the Crossfire uniform and hi-tech gadgets.  Rather than dispose of them, Endicott uses them for the opposite purpose: to fight crime.  He uses the Crossfire identity to his advantage, getting information from criminal contacts who don't know he's working the other side.  Endicott is based in Hollywood, CA, and Evanier successfully uses this setting to give the stories a seedy quality.  There is plenty of interaction with the movie/TV worlds, as well as the hopes and broken dreams that accompany them. Frequently, Crossfire finds himself as a sort of guardian angel to a large cast of needy supporting characters who are in over their heads, some of whom bear more than a passing resemblance to actual celebrities.  These characters really anchor the stories, and as they don't always have happy endings, they give the stories more gravity.<br /><br />And let's not forget the impressive work of artist Dan Spiegle.  This is fine-line at its best, and it would not be out of place in a classic Warren magazine.  It slightly resembles Dave Gibbons with a harder edge.  I am very thankful that the series was not reprinted in color, as this really gives Spiegle's work a chance to shine:  figures, facial expressions, scenery, action shots... he can do it all, and very well.fine-line at its best, and it would not be out of place in a classic Warren magazine.  It slightly resembles Dave Gibbons with a harder edge.  I am very thankful that the series was not reprinted in color, as this really gives Spiegle's work a chance to shine:  figures, facial expressions, scenery, action shots... he can do it all, and very well.	2004-10-06
US	51717849	R3UPMF0KODW35W	0785115463	103997089	Essential Iron Fist, Vol. 1 (Marvel Essentials)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Add this to your collection NOW!	While the Marvel Essentials have been moving into the `70s for some time now, the choices have been somewhat questionable.  Aside from Essential Howard the Duck, the storylines have been either too sporadic (the Punisher), or horribly repetitive (Tomb of Dracula).  Not so with ESSENTIAL IRON FIST.  This book is a winner - a prime example of what made Marvel THE comic company of the 1970s.<br /><br />At that time, Marvel was embracing any fad that came along.  Monsters, Sword and Sorcery, Toys... nothing was safe, including Martial Arts.  Shang-Chi, Master of Kung-Fu, was their first contribution, followed by the debut of Iron Fist in Marvel Premiere #15 (1974).  Produced by Roy Thomas and Gil Kane, Iron Fist incorporated elements of the TV series \\"Kung Fu\\", plus a bit of James Hilton's \\"Lost Horizon\\", plus a cool superhero outfit and excellent supporting characters.  The result was a story that took a couple of issues to get its feet on the ground, but soon made headway.  With the addition of writer Chris Claremont and artist John Byrne several months later (before they were the X-Men \\"dream team\\"), Iron Fist really took off and moved into his own series: 15 issues of spectacular work, featuring the return of Boomerang, the debut of Sabretooth, and appearances by Iron Man and the X-Men.  Claremont and Byrne stick with him as he joins Spider-Man in a few issues of Marvel Team-Up, then some guest appearances in Power Man, before finally finding a home in the newly-christened Power Man/Iron Fist.<br /><br />Amazingly, through all of these different titles, the main story is continuous.  Furthermore, every issue is a fresh addition to the storyline.  The bulk of this volume is by Claremont and Byrne, and their work is spectacular.  The reproduction gets a bit fuzzy in the later Power Man issues, as it appears to have been scanned from colored pages instead of line art.  But that's a minor problem.  For a so-called \\"second stringer\\" in the Marvel Universe, Iron Fist proves to be a fascinating character and a worthwhile read.t proves to be a fascinating character and a worthwhile read. <br />	2004-09-28
US	51717849	R1I5VQRRRR1WMU	1401201032	431877213	Stormwatch: Team Achilles - Volume 1	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Someone grab a mop and clean up Whilce Portacio's art!	STORMWATCH: TEAM ACHILLES, Volume 1, is yet another entry in the modern Wildstorm Universe.  While I have enjoyed the adventures of the Authority, Planetary, WildCATs, and Sleeper, STA has hit a sour note with me.  The writing is fine, but the book takes two steps back towards its Image Comics roots due to the utterly incomprehensible art of Whilce Portacio.<br /><br />The revamped Stormwatch is a sort of counter-Authority, standing up for humanity in the face of an increasing number of super-beings.  Great concept!  But then you open this book and are confronted with non-proportional bodies, awkward stances, gratuitous defining lines, deformed physiques: in short, everything that was the dark days of Image art!  Portacio puts far too much effort into defining every single muscle and vein on these angular characters, to the point that they look emaciated.  There is simply too much pointless detail and not enough technical know-how in these panels.  Also, the art does not help the reader to understand what is happening in the story, as there is no planning of layouts, and many characters look exactly alike.  For example, THREE team members with dark hair and goatees.  Another character is supposedly scarred over their entire body, but as every character is overdrawn and covered with cross-hatching, who can tell?  While this might be acceptable in a team book full of ciphers, writer Micah Ian Wright provides us with a team roster of distinct characters with their own personalities.  So how about a little variety in the art department?  Thankfully, Wright's writing is  strong enough to eventually claw its way out of this mess and provide us with a good story.<br /><br />So aside from the art, this is an entertaining book.  Stormwatch: Team Achilles is out to make sure that those super-brats don't get too big for their britches, and they deliver.  They even manage to take out the Authority out of commission for a bit, and that says a lot.  Check this out, and root for the little guy.	2004-09-23
US	51717849	R1TZHW3YT6BCKO	1401201164	601956536	Point Blank	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Excellent story that sets up SLEEPER	For those of you currently enjoying Ed Brubaker and Sean Phillips' series SLEEPER for Wildstorm Comics, be sure to check out POINT BLANK, as this is where it all begins.  The story:  Gen13's John Lynch has been shot and is lying in a coma, and his old friend Cole Cash, WildCATs' Grifter, is out to find who's responsible.  The trail goes through many different characters in the Wildstorm Universe, finally leading to a name:  Holden Carver.  Who is this man, what is his connection to Lynch, and how is the WildCATs renegade Tao involved?  Brubaker's story is very creative: an intriguing study of how perspectives influence our perception of events.  The end of this book was a surprise, but when I went back to the beginning, all the clues were there.  I enjoyed Colin Wilson's art - good action sequences, plenty of depth and texture, and just the right amount of grime for this type of story.  These characters are not pretty-boy superheroes with square jaws; rather, they are tired, weathered, and worn-out, just the way that someone in this situation should look.<br /><br />I had intended on giving this book a 4, but in the end, I can't really find any faults with it.  I thoroughly enjoyed it, even more so than the first volume of SLEEPER.  So start here to get into one of the best comics being published today.  Also, if you'd like to add another step and get even MORE backstory, check out the Alan-Moore-penned WildCATs trade paperbacks \\"Homecoming\\" and \\"Gang War\\".  These will get you up to speed on Cole Cash, Tao, and many other characters in POINT BLANK.  Not that these two WildCATs volumes are essential to the story, just some additional info.	2004-09-20
US	51717849	R2I6UVIDT70R00	1401204201	418287112	The Batman/Judge Dredd Files	Books	2	14	16	N	N	An Exercise in Excess	It's important to mention that this book doesn't include ALL of the Batman/Judge Dredd crossovers, contrary to what you may expect.  The missing story does cause a minor problem (to be mentioned shortly), so maybe DC should have done this correctly and included all of them.  In addition, there is no introduction, and as worthless as some introductions can be, a lack of one brings up all kinds of unfavorable ideas as to why.  But, there's no reason to worry about that, as I hereby freely offer up this review to DC as an introduction for this book.<br /><br />The gist of my review is this:  this book is proof that DC doesn't know when to call it quits.  Back in 1991, DC had a big hit with the inter-company crossover BATMAN/JUDGE DREDD: JUDGEMENT ON GOTHAM.  Written by Alan Grant and John Wagner, with art by Simon Bisley, this tale featured the title characters hopping between their respective Earths to capture Judge Death, Mean Machine Angel, and the Scarecrow.  The story was pretty good, and even more so, it was darn funny - definitely a worthwhile diversion from the typical Batman fare, and the sales showed it.  So of course, DC assumed that ANY Batman/Judge Dredd crossover would naturally result in big sales!  Based on that, DC retained the writing team, and, in 1993, went ahead with B/JD: VENDETTA IN GOTHAM, illustrated by JD regular Cam Kennedy, which continued, in a way, the storyline from the first book.  The problem is, either the writers had no more good ideas, or they didn't feel the need to try.  Whatever the reason, it wasn't that good.  This is the story not included in this trade paperback, probably because it has line art, which doesn't fit the airbrushed/painted style of the other stories.  Then came 1995's truly execrable B/JD: THE ULTIMATE RIDDLE, certainly the worst of the bunch, with art by Carl Critchlow.  For such uninspired dreck, it features a surprisingly muddled plot - several reads later, I still can't figure it out.  The collection tops off with B/JD:  DIE LAUGHING, with art by Glenn Fabry, which does have some redeeming feature in that our heroes have all four Dark Judges with which to contend.  The only problem is that the involvement of the Joker in the story doesn't make much sense.  Plus, it includes a reference to the previously mentioned, and strangely absent, VENDETTA IN GOTHAM... so I guess you'll have to go hunt that one down!<br /><br />In conclusion, paying this price for 208 pages when only 64 are worthwhile is certainly NOT a good investment.  Better to get the prestige format edition of B/JD: JUDGEMENT ON GOTHAM, which can still be easily found.JD:  DIE LAUGHING, with art by Glenn Fabry, which does have some redeeming feature in that our heroes have all four Dark Judges with which to contend.  The only problem is that the involvement of the Joker in the story doesn't make much sense.  Plus, it includes a reference to the previously mentioned, and strangely absent, VENDETTA IN GOTHAM... so I guess you'll have to go hunt that one down!      In conclusion, paying this price for 208 pages when only 64 are worthwhile is certainly NOT a good investment.  Better to get the prestige format edition of B/JD: JUDGEMENT ON GOTHAM, which can still be easily found.	2004-09-13
US	51717849	R3LIWS404P0KG4	0785109889	639608960	Essential Spider-Man Vol. 1	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Classic work from Lee and Ditko	The Marvel Essentials collection is hands-down the best deal in comics - not just for the price, but for the fact that you can experience the birth of the Marvel Universe first-hand.  ESSENTIAL SPIDER-MAN Volume 1 collects Amazing Fantasy #15, Spider-Man #1-20, and Annual #1... about 500 pages of early '60s stories featuring the first \\"relatable\\" super-hero.  Now sure, you get lots of fights with his stellar rogues gallery (Chameleon, Electro, Sandman, Vulture, Doctor Octopus, Mysterio, Kraven, Green Goblin, etc., make their first appearances here), but the real attraction here is the conflict, tension, and drama of the life of Peter Parker.  You will take just as much interest in Pete's interactions with Betty Brant, Aunt May, Flash Thompson, and J. Jonah Jameson, as you will in his alter ego's heroics.  Stan Lee wrote plenty of romance comics before the dawn of the Marvel Age, and it certainly shows in his heart-wrenching, often over-the-top dialogue.  But hey, in this context, it makes for great storytelling.  These classic issues introduce the characters that are loved by generations of fans; indeed, some of these stories still influence Spider-Man comics to this very day.  Steve Ditko's art is absolutely wonderful.  While Jack Kirby often gets credit as \\"the\\" Marvel artist, I have to differ: Ditko was much more versatile, was a master of facial expressions, and his Spidey fight scenes are amazingly well-designed.  He defined a crazy acrobatic style for Spidey's method of combat, and very few artists since him have understood how important it is to the character - almost like a ballet with fisticuffs.<br /><br />Deep down, I want to give this volume 4.5 stars, due to two stories within that are absolutely awful and very out-of-place with the remaining stories.  The first is \\"Spidey Tackles the Torch\\" from issue #8, which portrays SM as a conceited jerk who picks a fight with the Human Torch (I guess fans were clamoring for a match).  The second is Annual #1, which, while it introduced the concept of the Sinister Six, is very contrived and serves no real purpose other than to provide 6 full-page splashes of Spidey battling each villain, and it goes on for 40 pages!  HOWEVER, I'll round the rating up to 5 stars due to the price, plus the otherwise beautiful stories and art.<br /><br />One more thing: the very last story, from Annual #1, is \\"How Stan Lee and Steve Ditko Create Spider-Man\\", a behind-the-scenes look at the monthly process.  It's a humorous piece, more self-deprecating than anything else, but it eerily foreshadows the acrimony that Lee and Ditko would have for each other in later years.hich, while it introduced the concept of the Sinister Six, is very contrived and serves no real purpose other than to provide 6 full-page splashes of Spidey battling each villain, and it goes on for 40 pages!  HOWEVER, I'll round the rating up to 5 stars due to the price, plus the otherwise beautiful stories and art.   <br /> <br />One more thing: the very last story, from Annual #1, is \\"How Stan Lee and Steve Ditko Create Spider-Man\\", a behind-the-scenes look at the monthly process.  It's a humorous piece, more self-deprecating than anything else, but it eerily foreshadows the acrimony that Lee and Ditko would have for each other in later years.	2004-09-04
US	51717849	R1EAMYOLTF7D0Q	1563896591	719504054	Mr. Majestic	Books	4	4	4	N	N	More fun for fans of Silver Age Superman & Supreme	I never hide my disdain for Image or Image-related comics, but I have to admit:  over the past 6 or so years, some talented writers have been working wonders with their titles.  Alan Moore with Supreme and WildCATS, Warren Ellis with Stormwatch, and this gem from Joe Casey and Ed McGuinness (with help from Brian Holguin and Jason Martin).  This team has done a wonderful service for Wildstorm Studios' Mr. Majestic, turning yet another generic clown with a cape into a wonderful study of superhero archetypes.<br /><br />This is some intelligent writing, and quite fun.  Certainly not as meticulous as Alan Moore's run on Supreme, but Casey is going for something else here: namely, the over-the-top heroics of the classic Silver Age Superman. Nothing makes this more apparent than the first (and best) story, in which Mr. Majestic has to hide the solar system from an interstellar evil.  The 5 stories that follow include his regaining and losing his son, preparations for the Y2K bug, an oversexed version of the LOSH, and a night on the town with Ladytron.  These stories present Majestic as a very powerful hero, but the stories are imbued with a sense of humor. The final story, by Alan Moore and Carlos D'Anda, is quite dark in tone, as it details the final days of Mr. Majestic at the end of the universe.<br /><br />While the stories do slow down a bit after the first, I like what Joe Casey does with this character.  I'm not too keen on McGuinness' art, as his cartoony style really doesn't reflect this type of character very well.  Even still, I can ignore that, since the writing is so good.	2004-09-03
US	51717849	R6SN8QG5RLJDG	158240335X	776528719	Jack Staff Volume 1: Everything Used To Be Black And White	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Best comic I've read in quite a while	When I first saw promos for Paul Grist's JACK STAFF comics, I wondered why we needed a superhero that appeared to borrow so liberally from 2 other established heroes:  Marvel's Union Jack and Captain Britain.  As a result of prejudice, I wrote this series off for quite a while as just another creator-owned superhero romp.  Little did I know that this comic would eventually provide me with such enjoyment, and all because of a random article on Alan Moore.<br /><br />Recently, I discovered that the inimitable Mr. Moore was preparing to write a series for DC focusing on the IPC characters from British comics (The Spider, Tim Kelly, The Steel Claw, etc.).  I'm a big Moore fan, but I knew absolutely nothing about these characters, and a web search led me to a site on Jack Staff, noting that these characters, or variants in some cases, appeared in Grist's series.  This led to my purchasing the trade paperback, EVERYTHING USED TO BE BLACK AND WHITE, and while I did learn quite a bit about these characters, I learned something even more important:  Paul Grist is an exceptional and very creative writer.<br /><br />The Jack Staff character came about due to the rejection of a Union Jack script Grist had written for Marvel.  Not wanting to discard a good story, Grist reworked the plot substantially, altered the Marvel-owned characters, incorporated the IPC characters, and made it his own.  The result is a fantastic piece of work that is very complex when read in an extended trade format.  The stories within are actually made of even smaller bits that may seem disjointed at first, but are actually very tight.  What's more, they are well-conceived: every story has a point, and instead of starting with a good catch and meandering to a pointless end, they were written with a purpose clearly in mind.  Jack Staff is not just the main character here - he's the knot that holds the various threads of Grist's superhero universe firmly in place.  Furthermore, he is \\"Britain's Greatest Hero\\", active since WWII, and the reader is provided with bits and pieces of Jack's 60-year \\"history\\".  The supporting characters are so strongly realized that they threaten to overshadow Jack at times.  Grist's approaches to Captain America (Sgt. States) and Dr. Strange (The Druid) are alternately hilarious and eerie, taking approaches that are very original, yet could never work in Marvel's continuity.  By the end of this book, I was floored that such a well-told and complex tale had slipped right under my nose.<br /><br />Grist's artwork is very impressive, as well.  While it is minimalist, it's obvious that he has an excellent understanding of page layouts and perspective.  Many times I caught myself marveling at his choice of panel arrangement and text positioning, which aren't normally things on which I focus.  So, impressive in both story and art, JACK STAFF: EVERYTHING USED TO BE BLACK AND WHITE is an excellent choice for your next meaningful read.e WWII, and the reader is provided with bits and pieces of Jack's 60-year \\"history\\".  The supporting characters are so strongly realized that they threaten to overshadow Jack at times.  Grist's approaches to Captain America (Sgt. States) and Dr. Strange (The Druid) are alternately hilarious and eerie, taking approaches that are very original, yet could never work in Marvel's continuity.  By the end of this book, I was floored that such a well-told and complex tale had slipped right under my nose.      Grist's artwork is very impressive, as well.  While it is minimalist, it's obvious that he has an excellent understanding of page layouts and perspective.  Many times I caught myself marveling at his choice of panel arrangement and text positioning, which aren't normally things on which I focus.  So, impressive in both story and art, JACK STAFF: EVERYTHING USED TO BE BLACK AND WHITE is an excellent choice for your next meaningful read.	2004-08-18
US	51717849	R2JAPFNZZPB5NK	0785108025	705344768	Daredevil Visionaries - Frank Miller, Vol. 3	Books	3	11	15	N	N	The downhill slope for Miller's Daredevil	After building steadily to a peak with the death of Elektra in #181, Frank Miller had done pretty much everything he needed to with Daredevil. Volume 3 of the DAREDEVIL VISIONARIES: FRANK MILLER series proves this with a run of subsequent stories that basically mark time: they're okay, but they don't amaze like the previous issues. This book collects Daredevil #183-191, What If? #28 & 35, and Bizarre Adventures #28. The real stinker for me was the &quot;final breakup&quot; of Matt and Heather, done in such a awkward and trite fashion... I figure Miller wrote himself into a corner with this plotline and took the easy (albeit inexplicable) way out. The last 3 stories (What Ifs and Bizarre Adventures) don't do much. Where a WHAT IF story will ususally make me go &quot;whoa&quot;, these made me shrug. I guess the BA story would have been okay if Marvel could have printed the pages in the correct order. Once again, fans pay the price for the laziness of proofreaders.<br /><br /> In summary, Volumes 1 and 2 are defintely worth it. Volume 3 is not.	2004-07-29
US	51717849	R1VBH1TN6D1KEM	097416643X	114194752	Alex Raymond's Flash Gordon, Vol. 1	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Great start for this series	Checker has another hit on their hands with their reprint series of Alex Raymond's FLASH GORDON.  Presented in oblong 12 x 9&quot; hardcover format, this makes for an attractive, if somewhat awkward, format for collecting these classic strips.  I say &quot;awkward&quot; because oblong editions don't store easily on the bookshelf, but the benefit is that you get the strips in their original format.  In any case, it's great to see Raymond's original strips back in print.  This edition introduces Flash Gordon and his travelling companions Dale Arden and Dr. Zarkov, as well as the interplanetary comrades and enemies we all know and love (or love to hate).  Reproduction is fair: the linework is a bit light, and the colors are too soft for my tastes.  Better reproduction quality, plus a higher page count, would have netted this book five stars.	2004-07-15
US	51717849	R1D4C9ILDNRVLU	1563894084	675914165	Flex Mentallo: Man of Muscle Mystery	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Not a review, just information	This trade collection of Grant Morrison and Frank Quitely's FLEX MENTALO # 1 - 4 was never published, due to questionable legal issues.  Still, I can provide some info for those interested.<br /><br />The character of Flex Mentallo first appeared in DC Comics' DOOM PATROL #35 (by Morrison and Richard Case), looking like a character from a 1950s Charles Atlas advertisement and sporting an origin story that was a parody of Atlas' comic \\"The Insult That Made a Man out of Mac\\".  There the resemblance ended, however, as the mysterious bodybuilding course he received granted his individual muscles all sorts of super powers, such as altering reality or seeing the future.  It was all done in fun, no one was hurt, and things went on as normal.<br /><br />In 1996, Morrison and Quitely's FLEX MENTALLO mini-series expanded on the character, to much critical acclaim, and DC Comics was slapped with a lawsuit by Charles Atlas Ltd., claiming that the character had damaged their trademark.  The prosecution failed to prove that the damage occured, but for some reason I can't fathom, DC agreed to not reprint the miniseries in trade format.  Quite a shame, as FLEX MENTALLO was another of Morrison's brilliant examinations of the comic book medium, focusing (as with ANIMAL MAN) on the after-effects of DC's CRISIS ON INFINITE EARTHS.<br /><br />EDIT:  And now here we are in 2012 with a hardcover collection!  You can't keep a good man down.  Flex, it's great to have you back.	2004-07-15
US	51717849	R3QEFVBUW6W7MG	1563890054	562788757	Animal Man, Book 1 - Animal Man	Books	5	24	25	N	N	The entire Grant Morrison run, back in print!	This review is actually for all 3 trade paperback volumes of Grant Morrison's ANIMAL MAN, back for all to conveniently enjoy.  After 10 years of having only Volume 1 in print, DC FINALLY printed the rest of Morrison's run in a Volume 2 and 3, giving us the complete story, a defining work for a great comic writer.<br />To try to explain the entire storyline in just a few paragraphs would be woefully inadequate, but I will say that, while ANIMAL MAN could be defined as Grant Morrison voicing his opinions on animal rights, it is so much more than that:<br />First, it's a study of how the world of comics interacts with (our) reality - almost mind-bendingly so.  Morrison drops hints from the beginning of his run that our perceptions of \\"reality\\" in the DC Universe will be challenged with these stories.  It takes over 20 issues to make his final point, but brother is it worth it.  From the Looney-Tunes-ish antics of \\"The Coyote Gospel\\" to the revelations of the villain Psycho-Pirate (the only character who remembers the DCU before the Crisis), this is some very creative work.<br />Second, these stories are a tribute to the pre-Crisis DC Universe.  It's putting it mildly that Grant Morrison misses the timelines and characters eliminated by the Crisis, and in ANIMAL MAN, he does what he can to make sure that we don't forget the richness and fun of the Golden and Silver Ages.  His final 3 or so issues made me feel even MORE ashamed that the Crisis ever happened.  I will say this, however: if the Crisis created the fertile ground for stories like this, then I'll accept it.  It's a case of being thankful for the good and the bad.<br />Brian Bolland provides excellent covers for the series.  I always felt it was a shame that he couldn't do the interiors as well.  The work of Chas Truog, regular series artist, is lacking.  The few issues with guest artists were welcome breaks from Truog's visually boring style.  Don't let that hold you back, however, as his art does improve somewhat over time, and the story more than makes up for it.e somewhat over time, and the story more than makes up for it.	2004-07-06
US	51717849	R233DZ2QN1QTL5	0974166480	844165729	Dick Tracy: The Collins Casefiles Volume 2 (Dick Tracy: the Collins Casefiles (Graphic Novels))	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Checker scores another direct hit!	Checker Books is filling a necessary role in the publishing field:  bringing classic comic strips back into the public eye.  Not only that, but they do it at a reasonable price and easily manageable format.  Their STEVE CANYON volumes were well received, but the highlight for me has been DICK TRACY - THE COLLINS CASEFILES.  Volume 2 continues the reprints of the Dick Tracy strips beginning in 1978 by Max Alan Collins (writer) and Rick Fletcher (illustrator), with oversight by creator Chester Gould.  Long before Collins became known for Road to Perdition, he cranked out some excellent Tracy scripts that brought the plainclothes detective into a more modern setting, but with the same grit and thrills from the classic strip.  Fletcher's fine-line art is exceptional, giving us a very stylized view of Tracy's world while retaining the characters' distinctive physical traits (it has a bit of an Alex Nino look, if that helps).  This volume contains great stories featuring \\"the Computer Killer\\", the return of Mumbles (or is it?), Bony and Claudette, and Quiver.  A back-up feature contains \\"case files\\" of various characters from the strip.<br />Regarding the format, these books are trade-sized collections, which I love since they fit so well with my other trades on the bookshelf (I've never cared for oversized oblong collections, as they are more difficult to store, plus they can't be handled very easily while reading).  I will make one complaint about this volume, albeit a minor one:  my copy has a couple of pages where the ink did not apply as heavily, resulting in several slightly faded strips.<br />I am hoping for more volumes in this series.  Checker, don't let me down.	2004-07-02
US	51717849	RKZLA561EQITB	1401202241	263759724	Green Lantern/Green Arrow Collection - Volume 1	Books	3	7	12	N	N	The innocence of  "innocence lost"	It's good that DC has brought this run of stories by Denny O'Neil and Neal Adams back in print, and at an affordable price.  It's not so good that these stories are straight out of the early '70s and loaded with the kind of heavy-handed social commentary that was so prevalent for the time.  This book collects the first several issues of the famed \\"Hard-Travelling Heroes\\" arc, where Green Lantern and Green Arrow take, of all things, a road trip, where they hope to rediscover America and find out what happened to the \\"American dream\\" - yep, you read that correctly:  it's EASY RIDER for superheroes.  The two heroes, in the presence of a Guardian and with a brief assist from Black Canary, take on the alienation of African-Americans and Native Americans, corrupt corporations, cult leaders, and just about every other social ill that was making the front pages.<br />I applaud O'Neil and Adams for this work, as it was one of the earliest signs of breaking away from the world of absolutes so prevalent in super-hero comics.  The problem is that it's somewhat overwhelming.  I can take only so much dialogue about the evils of \\"The Man\\" before it unfortunately becomes humorous.  I think that if O'Neil would have eased off and constructed his stories more logically, instead of just dumping GL and GA in one extreme situation after another, they would have fared much better over the years.  But, at the time, these topics were rarely tackled in post-Code comics, so a hard message was better than no message at all.	2004-06-28
US	51717849	R27FYM8BL8KNA5	1401200567	486411418	Orbiter	Books	2	10	22	N	N	This has MOVIE written all over it... for the wrong reasons	I always pass on DC's harcover graphic novels, because the softcover will never be far behind.  While waiting for the SC of Warren Ellis and Colleen Doran's ORBITER, I head time after time how it was a wonderful and uplifting story that would bring a tear to your eye.  I can't agree with that.  ORBITER strikes me as nothing more than a gung-ho highly-theoretical technogeekfest on the level of Jurassic Park, Twister, or The Core.  I wouldn't be surprised if this were optioned for a movie, as it fits the formula so well.  And please, let's forget about how the release of this graphic novel coincided with the Columbia disaster and judge it for what it is.<br />Due to the disappearance of the shuttle Venture 10 years ago, manned spaceflight is at a standstill.  Then, Venture returns, heavily modified, showing signs of having undergone a space/time warp, and containing only the pilot.  A team of experts is quickly assembled to find out what happened, and they are so cookie-cutter, it's amazing.  The team consists of a typical fast-talking, tough-as-nails Colonel who goes for the bottom line and doesn't have time for all the scientific mumbo-jumbo; a brilliant young theroetical physicist (aren't they all) who is a goofball but with a can-do attitude; a former astronaut who dreams of a return to the stars (and who's going through a well-timed divorce in order to drive this point home); and a psychologist who does... not much, except serve as a mouthpiece for Ellis' main point.<br />The technobabble is overwhelming (I'm not even sure if Ellis understands what he's writing about), and the ease with which the mystery is solved, and its casual acceptance by the team, leads to a happy blockbuster-movie conclusion that didn't do anything for me.  In fact, I find it quite annoying that the team is able to solve so much of the mystery on its own, proceeding successfully along lines of tenuous logic.  Warren Ellis is capable of exceptional work (Planetary, Global Freqency), but ORBITER reads like a formulaic screenplay for a Michael Crichton film.ITER reads like a formulaic screenplay for a Michael Crichton film.	2004-05-13
US	51717849	R24GMOIMX0DYQY	0785110720	552181336	1: Truth: Red, White & Black	Books	2	7	17	N	N	Ends with a gaping hole...	For all the major and minor faults mentioned in prior reviews, the premise of this story is pretty good, and it was definitely a step in the right direction for Marvel, a company that is guilty of some of the worst retcons ever (Jean Grey's resurrection [the FIRST of many], the Spider-Clone, etc.).  The sad fact is, for a story with such a serious tone and heavy message, Kyle Baker's sloppy and rushed art gives it the look of a Disney cartoon traced by a 5-year-old (that's being generous), and editor Axel Alonso deserves a smack in the head for accepting this garbage.  Baker is an extremely capable artist, but this is absolutely horrible.<br /><br />So on to my biggest problem: the ending.  As writer Robert Morales shows us, the creation of Captain America harbors a horrible secret.  So how is it that Steve Rogers, THE Captain America, knew nothing about it when it's apparent that so many prominent figures were obviously VERY aware of the truth?  Or perhaps I'm misinterpreting the ending?  It was very touching, but it makes no sense.	2004-05-10
US	51717849	R2EM7WFMMAGLGF	0974166421	238129295	Dick Tracy: The Collins Casefiles, Vol. 1 (Dick Tracy: the Collins Casefiles (Graphic Novels))	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Holy cow, this is good stuff!	I was never much of a Dick Tracy fan, but this collection has made me take notice of the classic comic strip detective.  Collecting January through December of 1978, this is the first full year written by Max Alan Collins (Road to Perdition) and drawn by creator Chester Gould's assistant Rick Fletcher.  It brings Dick Tracy into the \\"modern era\\", but it doesn't give him or his cast a makeover.  Tracy is up against multiple antagonists: an old foe who is losing his influence, the vengeful descendants of other old foes, and the nosy reporter who portrays him as a relic of a more violent time. Collins' plotting and storytelling will keep you on your toes, and Fletcher's artwork, while extremely faithful to Gould's quirky renderings, is very stylized and clean.  The best part is how Collins and Fletcher work together to present a masterful example of pacing.  This collection is an excellent example of the narrative style of the serialized comic strip.	2004-05-06
US	51717849	R1H7BOGKPSXYG4	0743474767	620871168	Best of Ray Bradbury	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	Hmmm...	Ibooks continues to amaze me with their selection of reprints, but this one didn't impress me quite as much as others.  THE BEST OF RAY BRADBURY: THE GRAPHIC NOVEL is a softcover reprinting of selected tales from Topps Comics' excellent early-90s RAY BRADBURY CHRONICLES series.  RBC combined classic EC adaptations of Bradbury's work (by Jack Davis, Johnny Craig, and others) with modern adaptations by top comic and fantasy artists (Corben, Moebius, Muth, VanFleet, P. Craig Russell, &amp; Wayne Barlowe, to name just a few).  The problem with this particular release is that iBooks seems to be doing this as a one-shot with just a few select tales, instead of reprinting the entire series.  What a loss!  Additionally, it appears that one of the included stories (&quot;The City&quot;, adapted by Mike Mignola) is a misprint.  I could make no sense of the story as presented, so I had to flip some panels/pages around in my head in order to make it work.  I would love to see a thorough reprinting of this entire RBC series, so I'll keep waiting.	2004-03-12
US	51717849	R35BGA7CWM4NQI	1893905004	588299051	1: Collected Jack Kirby Collector, Volume One	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Reprinted for 2004!	Volume 1 of TwoMorrows Publishing's \\"The Collected Jack Kirby Collector\\" is finally back in print!  240 b&w pages of everything Kirby.  This volume collects issues 1 - 9, with 3 more volumes on the way.  You get every page and cover from every issue.  Highlights include uninked pages from various comics; interviews with Kirby, Simon, Royer, Evanier, and Steranko, to name a few; and loads of unpublished Kirby art - either personal works, commissions, drafts, or others.  Obviously, this book is meant for people that live and breathe Kirby, but even someone with a casual interest will gain something from this book.  It contains lots of historical information and little-known facts.  Pick this up and revel in the greatness that is Jack Kirby.  Long live the King!	2004-03-02
US	51717849	R38UOTB4WBNW0K	1932051155	263267765	Codeflesh	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Pretty good start for a series that shows real potential	This trade paperback collects the Joe Casey and Charlie Adlard Codeflesh stories from the \\"Double Image\\" comics.  It's the story of a bailbondsman, Cameron Daltrey, and his business partner, Staz, who cater to supervillains.  When they skip, Cameron dons a UPC-mask (why a UPC, I can't fathom), beats them senseless, and hauls them in, effectively acting as his own bounty-hunter.  There are a couple of snags, though.  First, since he literally has two jobs, he has no time for his girlfriend.  Second, because Cameron has been apprehended in the past for his roughing up supervillains and ordered to cease and desist by a judge, he has to be extra-careful to avoid the cops.  The stories are fairly simple, and sometimes stilted, but on the whole they are quite enjoyable.  I think that with more issues, the series could form a bit and really take off.  My 3-star rating is due to the fact that there is really no detailed examination of Cameron's past activities, nor a reason for why he uses a mask with a UPC, plus the rather sedentary nature of the stories (no real progression, just bail skipping over and over).  There is plenty of violence, adult language, and some nudity, so this is definitely not a kid's book.  Adlard's art is excellent as usual, looking like a hyper Guy Davis.	2004-01-30
US	51717849	R4V1W9BFRKZC1	0974166456	54567247	Judgment Day	Books	5	49	52	N	N	A fantastic commentary on Rob Liefeld's place in comics	While I was aware of Alan Moore's stint on Supreme, during which he added an incredible amount of history and totally redefined the hero, I did not know of his involvement with this particular title until the trade paperback release.  For those of you who are fans of his work on Supreme, you owe it to yourself to pick up JUDGMENT DAY.<br />The plot, in short: the Awesome Entertainment superhero community is shocked by the murder of Youngblood member Riptide.  The prime suspect is fellow Youngblood member Knightsabre; however, during the trial, it is revealed that details of the case originate at the dawn of time.  What follows is a series of flashbacks over thousands of years in the Awesome Comics universe, building to a surprise conclusion.  As in Supreme, Moore weaves a very complex story, strengthened by the involvement of \\"Silver Age\\" characters he introduced in Supreme, as well as analogues of other famous comic and literary characters.  As a result, Youngblood is provided with a history of sorts.  The framing story is illustrated by Rob Liefeld, with the flashback sequences handled by a host of guest-artists, including Chris Sprouse and the great Gil Kane.  Also included is an overview of some of Moore's other Silver Age characters, in a story that is a tribute to, and illustrated by, Gil Kane.  Additionally, there is a kick-off for another Youngblood series featuring Shaft, Suprema, and a handfull of new characters.<br />So, the story alone warrants 5 stars.  What really solidifies the rating for this book, however, is the message that Alan Moore presents  to the reader:  the fact that Youngblood and other Liefeld characters are angry, bloodthirsty, conflict-motivated anti-heroes that changed the face of comics for the worse.  He shows that, compared to the comic characters of yesteryear, this type of character is ridiculous and irrelevant.  It's so fitting that, as the members of Youngblood listen to testimony during the trial, they begin to realize that they are out of their league.  Rightly so!  What's so amazing is that Moore could present this message with Liefeld's say-so.  Who knows... maybe Liefeld has actually come to realize this?<br />But even if Liefeld's approach to superheroes has possibly matured, his artwork certainly hasn't.  It amazes me that, after 15 years in the industry, the man still has no understanding of layouts and anatomy.ey are out of their league.  Rightly so!  What's so amazing is that Moore could present this message with Liefeld's say-so.  Who knows... maybe Liefeld has actually come to realize this?  <br />But even if Liefeld's approach to superheroes has possibly matured, his artwork certainly hasn't.  It amazes me that, after 15 years in the industry, the man still has no understanding of layouts and anatomy.	2004-01-25
US	51717849	R3P8CR4B4J4TYZ	1563896222	611811838	Golden Age, The: Starman - Archives, Volume 1 (Archive Editions)	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Better than most Golden Age work	I choose my DC Archives carefully.  While they are beautiful editions, and Amazon makes them very affordable, I just can't justify the price for story and art that, in the case of their Golden Age material, is mediocre at best.  My interest in James Robinson's revival of Starman led me to purchase this Archive volume, and I can say that it is well worth it.  This 200-plus page hardcover reprints Adventure Comics #61-76, from 1941-42, by Gardner Fox and Jack Burnley.  The stories are fine from a historical perspective, as they give the reader a sort of prequel to the Robinson series.  Some comics historians may scoff at that statement, but it's true.  The Golden Age Starman, for the most part, just filled a space on the comic rack.  He was put to somewhat better use in the Silver Age with the advent of Earth-2, and the later years would bring completely different versions of the character... but nothing special.  Robinson, however, fully developed the character and made him work, even if he had to pull Starman's son to center stage and integrate the other versions to do it.  So in the grand scheme of things, these early stories only serve to provide a framework for greater things to come.  Still, they are enjoyable.  The real attraction of these classic stories, however, is Burnley's artwork.  The man had a good grasp of anatomy and composition, far more so than his contemporaries.  It's comparable to Alex Raymond and is a pure delight.  This is some of the best Golden Age art you will ever see.	2004-01-20
US	51717849	R3C9NX0H8EGFOT	1563894033	34623380	Wonder Woman: Lifelines	Books	2	7	11	N	N	Byrne treads water with one arm	Normally I enjoy reading John Byrne's take on classic comic characters.  He is well-read regarding Golden- and Silver-Age comics, and he has the amazing ability to incorporate a character's legendary status into his writing.  In other words, he focuses hard on the title character, writing Superman AS Superman, or Spider-Man AS Spider-Man, instead of making each just some other moron in tights.  This is not the case with his run on DC's Wonder Woman, however... because it really can't be called Wonder Woman's story.<br />WONDER WOMAN: LIFELINES contains 7 issues of Bryne's run as writer/artist.  Reading it, I don't understand what Byrne's objective was with this character.  The majority of the stories focus on supporting characters who likely will not appeal to the reader.  Helena, Cassie, Mike, Champion... what's the fuss?  Why are their stories more important than WW?  Not only that, but these stories are LOADED with guest appearances, as if WW doesn't have any drawing power of her own - Flash, Sinestro, & Doomsday (all clones); Etrigan, Vandal Savage, Arion, & General Immortus (essential to the plot of the first story but glossed over); and Superman (doesn't even meet WW).  The art is questionable as well.  It's what I call \\"sloppy Byrne\\": scratchy renderings with no depth, almost as if they were taken from sketchbooks.  Typical Byrne character types are present, including the one I hate the most - the short-haired-androgynous-teenage-girl... what is his obsession with this?  The vague backgrounds are certainly not helped by the washed-out color.  I've never seen so many pastels in his work.  Visually boring stuff.<br />So what was the point of Byrne's run on WW?  To pay the bills?  To stay on the fan radar?  I think either of these could be the reason.  Or perhaps he REALLY had some grand finale planned where all of the random plot lines would come together in a brilliant display of artistry never before seen in comics... not likely.	2004-01-08
US	51717849	R36P7WNZ069XLC	1593070160	175902807	The Chronicles of Conan, Vol. 1: Tower of the Elephant and Other Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	THESE stories will not be ignored	For many years, there has been a push to return Robert E. Howard's Conan to his roots; meaning, get rid of all the  modified tales from L. Sprague deCamp and others that were incorporated into the Lancer and Ace paperback Conan series, leaving us only with the original REH Conan.  By doing this, however, we are left with only a handful of stories and fragments of questionable quality.  Let's be honest: while REH was innovative and had an extremely active imagination, he was not the literary talent that many would have us believe.  Plus, as there have been countless characters to imitate Conan, I feel that the involvement of other creators to flesh out this archetypal barbarian can only help Howard's legacy and should not be ignored.  I grew up on the modified Conan stories, and I feel that they certainly help to present Conan as a more complete and accessible character.  Others must have felt this way as well, for as a result, Conan and other REH characters were propelled into paperbacks and other media, including comics.<br />What I'm getting at is, by pretending that the modifications never happened, everything inspired by them stands a good chance of never being reprinted.  I was quite suprised and happy, therefore, upon hearing that Dark Horse Comics received the rights to reprint Roy Thomas' & Barry Smith's Conan tales, originally done for Marvel in the '70s.  This is some beautiful work from both creators.  Be warned, however, that the artwork contained within is faux-Kirby from plain old \\"Barry Smith\\", not the pre-raphaelite renderings of \\"Barry WINDSOR Smith\\".  You won't see BWS' artistic transition until the last couple of issues, to be reprinted in the third Dark Horse volume.  There are a few REH tales here, plus some pastiches, but all serve to present Conan as an individual instead of just another brute with a sword.  This first volume reprints #1-8 in full color on bright glossy paper, with restored and recolored art.  It is unfortunate that more issues couldn't be included in this volume, but for Smith's art, I would prefer to spend more money for less stories in color than a black-and-white reprint ala Marvel's Essentials.s couldn't be included in this volume, but for Smith's art, I would prefer to spend more money for less stories in color than a black-and-white reprint ala Marvel's Essentials.	2004-01-06
US	51717849	RK32ZC85758BA	1879794144	509594529	The Mighty Crusaders: Origin of a Super-Team (The Red Circle Series)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	If you love the Silver Age, get this book!	Let me start off by saying that reading this book will make you laugh long and hard - not because the stories are intentionally funny, but because they are so overwhelmingly absurd.  It's a product of the times, however, and it is an essential part of your comic education.<br />Every company that could was riding the superhero wave of what is considered the Silver Age of comics.  DC, Marvel, Charlton, Gold Key, et al, were drowning us with men in tights.  Not to be outdone (in THEIR minds, at least) Archie Comics decided to stray from their standard fare with the creation of the Mighty Comics Group, giving us brightly-garbed heroes such as Fly-Man, Fly-Girl, The Black Hood, The Comet, and The Shield.  These characters united to form the Mighty Crusaders.  While these stories never touched Mighty's competitors in terms of quality, they more than made up for it in unintentional laughs.<br />What am I talking about?  Well, how about the fact that Fly-Man seems to have more powers than the entire Avengers roster - is there anything he can't do?  The Black Hood rides into combat on... a flying robotic horse?  The Comet's costume, designed by Peter Max?  The hilariously snide comments and forced confrontations between team members that substitute for characterization?  I had to put the book down several times in order to compose myself.  Don't let this deter you, however: the writing, for all its faults, is very creative, so thumbs-up to Jerry Siegel (yes, THAT Jerry Siegel).  Paul Reinman's art is razor-sharp and very reminiscent of Mike Sekowsky, which was a big selling point for me.  His layouts could be compared to early '60s Kirby.  This collection includes FLY MAN #31 - 33 and MIGHTY CRUSADERS #1, originally published in 1965.  The art has been restored, and the coloring is amazingly vibrant on bright white paper.	2003-12-26
US	51717849	R1UO8D6WNL0WTZ	0894809822	107064276	Expedition: Being an Account in Words and Artwork of the A.D. 2358 Voyage to Darwin IV	Books	3	6	12	N	N	Catching up with Barlowe	Having just purchased a new copy of the classic BARLOWE'S GUIDE TO EXTRATERRESTRIALS, I felt it necessary to catch up on some of the incomparable Wayne D. Barlowe's more recent work.  I leafed through several books and settled on EXPEDITION, primarily for my interest in its subject matter.  I see that from the late '80s-onward, Barlowe has been handling both art and writing chores, I assume in order to make his projects more personal and satisfying.  Certainly, the man is an immensely talented artist, but I feel that he should have worked with established authors and/or biologists in order to give EXPEDITION more substance, structure, and technical basis.<br /><br />Regarding the story, I found it odd that the expedition to the planet Darwin IV was only possible due to the fact that Earth had already made contact with a sort of \\"sponsor\\" alien species, the Yma.  If that's the case, then why aren't we learning more about the Yma instead of the inhabitants of Darwin IV?  Detailing Earth's first contact with another intelligent life-form sounds more interesting to me than the study of an unknown planet.  A tighter approach would have been to drop the Yma and then have all of the technology be Earth-based (this IS the 24th century, after all).<br /><br />I definitely feel that when you're theorizing on alien biology, all rules, such as we know them, can stand by the wayside.  For a detailed project such as EXPEDITION, however, there should be some logical restraint.  While this book contains some very clever biological concepts, such as the Amoebic Sea, Emperor Sea-Strider, Rime-Runner, and Gyrosprinter, they are brought down a notch by the questionable equilibrium of the Daggerwrist population, the feeding and locomotion of the Tundra Plow, and the seemingly inefficient maturation of the Forest Slider.  But of course, we've found some organisms on our own planet that are almost as odd, so who's to say what we may find on another?  Overall, this was a fun book, but it had a few too many \\"huh?\\" moments.ad a few too many \\"huh?\\" moments.	2003-12-25
US	51717849	R1YBDT3DP127OX	0785108173	307688525	Thunderbolts: Justice Like Lightning TPB	Books	2	3	8	N	N	Concept doesn't hold water with subsequent readings	With the Marvel Comics series Thunderbolts, writer Kurt Busiek pulled off the surprise of the '90s.  The finale of issue #1  revealed that this super-team, appearing as a result of \\"Onslaught\\", was really the Masters of Evil, posing as heroes in a plan to conquer the world in the absence of the FF and the Avengers.  While it was a great trick, and some of the later issues were okay, I had a hard time swallowing the premise the further I read.  Reading this trade collection only reinforces that.  The reason why?  Well, I've been reading Marvel Comics for quite a while, and I agree that you need to occasionally shake up the status quo and tweak characters in order to keep things interesting.  I had no problem accepting a few of these villains posing as heroes, but Baron Zemo was just too much to ask.  As far back as I can recall, this guy has been portrayed as an egotistical, ranting, power-mad schemer, and for him to simply slip on a different costume and convincingly adopt a heroic air as \\"Citizen V\\" was absurd.  While I feel that Kurt Busiek is definitely one of the most talented writers around, this one thing knocked Thunderbolts out of whack.  It doesn't ruin the story, but it requires a major suspension of disbelief for long-time Marvel fans.  One other complaint about the writing: for a Busiek story, there seems to be more emphasis on fighting than on dialogue.  I understand that there should be SOME fighting to establish which side these guys are pretending to be on, but I would have preferred more emphasis on the story.  Also, the lackluster art by Mark Bagley and others did nothing for me.<br />HOWEVER... I will give it two stars for the nostalgic aspects of the story; namely, the appearances of lots of other third-tier '70s characters.  Also, I found it interesting that some of the Thunderbolts, who have been considered hard-luck cases as villains, seem better fitted to their roles as heroes.	2003-12-25
US	51717849	R3H75MLK1GH6X3	1932100040	85183132	The Man Who Folded Himself	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Worth the effort!	I'm a sucker for a good old-fashioned time travel story, especially one which presents a paradox.  Having David Gerrold's THE MAN WHO FOLDED HIMSELF back in print is a blessing, as this book has paradoxes in spades.  In it, Daniel Eakins receives a \\"Time Belt\\" from his deceased uncle's estate.  Of course, he can't resist the temptation to use it.  By doing so, he embarks on an adventure-with-a-price, with a somewhat predictable, but nonetheless eye-opening, conclusion.  Instead of presenting time travel as a linear event (where the traveller moves throughout one  timeline), Gerrold describes it as a branching phenomenon (where each movement in time is a branch off of the previous timeline).  As a result, you can not only meet yourself, but eventually meet millions of different versions of yourself.  And returning to your original timeline gets harder and harder as you go, to the point where it may become eliminated.  There is much more effort required by the reader in order to keep it straight, but it's worth it.<br />The \\"science\\", such as it is, is fairly ambiguous, but the theoretical discussions of the physics behind this type of time travel are pretty wild and play a prominent role in Dan Eakins' development.  As a result, you get a story which is heavy on the psychological effects that this activity could have on the individual.  This is a book for adults, as there are adult situations; however, they do serve to further the plot in a very interesting way.  While the weak-at-heart may flinch at the sexual situations presented in the book, they did play a integral part and were not gratuitous.  Honestly, for this type of story, the terms \\"homosexuality\\" and \\"incest\\" really don't apply, so relax, be patient, and enjoy a mind-expanding read!	2003-12-10
US	51717849	REWSLSVDULMW3	1563897504	841852739	Crisis On Infinite Earths	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A great big mess, but I like it	For a storyline that tore the ultra-complex DC Universe apart and streamlined it, Crisis On Infinite Earths is, in retrospect, an oddity in the DCU's overall history.  It promised to fix the majority of the inconsistencies that had existed more or less comfortably in the DCU (as long as you didn't think about them too much).  After 20 years or so, it appears to hold little relevance, however, as many of its \\"fixes\\" became undone or completely ignored, and many more contradictions have occured since.  And even more so, did all of this really need to be done?  I'm torn... honestly, I prefer inter-dimensional team-ups between Earths-1 and 2, but if not for COIE, then Kingdom Come wouldn't make much sense.<br />Even still, DC did the right thing by collecting it.  It is certainly a classic story, and it was some ambitious and entertaining work for its time.  I look at it more as a relic of the times than as gospel.  Indeed, since its reprinting led to the publishing of the excellent Crisis On Multiple Earths volumes (which refreshed my memory of how much fun things used to be), I prefer to remain in the pre-Crisis years and view COIE as alternate history.  Still, Wolfman does an admirable job of sorting through the various realities of the DCU and making some sense of them, even if his overall story is repetitive and is much longer than it needs to be.  George Perez, while not my favorite artist, definitely does an amazing job of capturing the epic scope of the story.  DC's getting Alex Ross and Perez to collaborate on the cover of the collection resulted in one of the most amazing pieces of comic art I've ever seen.<br />If the actual choice of reprinting COIE had any problems, it was definitely in the way DC marketed it.  It was originally pushed on us as an expensive, slipcased, limited hardcover edition, and DC swore up and down that there would be no trade edition.  Sure enough, along comes a trade at a fraction of the price about a year or so later.  This one instance has negatively affected my opinion of DC's marketing practices ever since.instance has negatively affected my opinion of DC's marketing practices ever since.	2003-11-21
US	51717849	R38JXTKR58IV64	0785109919	176117371	Essential Classic X-Men - Volume 1	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Going back to the basics	Marvel gets lots of flak for the format of their Essential editions: I can agree with the mid-stream format change - just like the Masterworks, you have to start over if you want a uniform set.  I can also agree with the flimsy paper, to a degree, as it tears easily during the binding process.  The ink bleed results in ghost images on facing pages.  And the lack of color leaves out some of the visual appeal.  Yet, with all of this, I still LOVE this line, as it is hands-down the cheapest way to educate yourself on the Silver Age of Marvel Comics.  I will gladly pay the low price for these 500-page books!<br />Anyway, on to the meat of this volume:  Uncanny X-Men #1 - 24, by Lee, Kirby, Thomas, Gavin, et al.  I guess most folks today prefer post-Giant-Size-X-Men, but whatever your preference, check out this book, as this is where it all began!  These stories are from the early '60s, so of course the dialogue is cheesy; of course the characterizations are stereotyped; but by gum, you just can't get innovative stories like this anymore.  Here we have the original X-Men, as kids no less, setting the stage for the uneasy coexistence of humanity and mutants.  It's super-hero action combined with teen angst, and some little oddities that, to my knowledge, were not carried into later issues (Professor X loves teen-age Jean Grey?  Eeeugh!).  Featured villains include, in their first appearances, Magneto, the Blob, the Vanisher, Unus, the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants, Juggernaut, the Sentinels, Lucifer, Mimic, and the Stranger, plus a few others I won't mention.  Plus, you get a great Kirbyesque cover by Bruce Timm (this guy should do all of the covers for Kirby's reprints).<br />The Marvel Essentials line is one of the best bargains in comics.  Why not fill your shelves with them?	2003-11-18
US	51717849	RTTLN6RVWI78X	0785108378	247811529	The Life and Death of Captain Marvel (Marvel Comics)	Books	2	8	14	N	N	An uncomfortable mix	This trade paperback brings together two books: the collected LIFE OF CAPTAIN MARVEL and the original graphic novel THE DEATH OF CAPTAIN MARVEL.  I was more familiar with the late Captain from the graphic novel, as well as scattered appearances in other characters' titles.  TDOCM is a very powerful story, due to its study of the mortality of a hero.  I had never read the stories from his actual series: those that defined his powers and supporting cast, as well as set the stage for his death.  It seems only natural that Marvel should combine these two books, but they certainly don't belong together.<br />The early Captain Marvel stories in this book are a prime example of great ideas carried out with little style.  They may have been exciting reading for the time, but they don't mesh well with the final graphic novel.  Quite a lot happens in these stories, actually: CM meets the Titans, joins forces with Iron Man & Drax the Destroyer, faces Thanos, and gains cosmic awareness, but holy cow - this is some bad writing!  It's pretty obvious that Jim Starlin was trying to spin a tale on the level of Jack Kirby's Fourth World saga (with some embarrasing similarities), but at this point in his career, he had not attained his flair for engaging plots or intelligent dialogue (for that, see his Cosmic Odyssey from DC).  The basics are:  Drax pursues Thanos, Thanos tries to drive him mad, CM gets into the mix, Thanos has our heroes under his thumb but doesn't kill them, and it starts all over again.  This goes on for over 200 pages!  It's helpful to get the high points, but boy is it a painful process.<br />The payoff is the final chapter, which is one of the more moving tales ever to come out of the Marvel House of Ideas.  Jim Starlin did some excellent work on TDOCM, and it is a true masterpiece.<br />One more little problem I have with this book: Marvel has adopted the practice of putting advertisements in their trade paperbacks lately.  Having the last moment of Captain Marvel's life facing a page with an ad for cookies seems undignified.Marvel's life facing a page with an ad for cookies seems undignified.	2003-11-11
US	51717849	R3OUQ6FAQ826DH	0785108556	117836713	Captain Britain TPB	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Excellent early work from Alan Moore & Alan Davis	I have to get this out of the way first: this book is a must-have for any fans of Alan Moore's work on Miracleman!  I was unaware of his work on this Marvel UK title until a recent browse through a local comic shop.  It might be a tad hard to come by, but it can still be found!<br />Collecting a classic and definitive run from the very early '80s, CAPTAIN BRITAIN features some outstanding writing and artwork.  It's fascinating to see Moore and Davis in the very early phases of their careers.  You can feel the presence of the great works to come from both highly-regarded creators.  Moore's writing gives many hints of the more well-known adult-themes to come from him in the mid- to late '80s.  Davis' style, while a bit rough at first, quickly develops as he gains more confidence with the characters (in fact, Moore spends almost the entire introduction praising Davis' work, and rightly so).<br />Be warned that the beginning of this book is not actually the beginning of the storyline, but it suffices.  You are dropped into the middle of an ongoing story that the 2 inherited at the last minute.  Within that last minute, however, a good chunk of the UK's superheroes are killed by The Fury, including Miracleman AND the title character!  Using a format that will be familiar to readers of Moore's Swamp Thing, the Captain is resurrected and redefined, leading to a rematch that doesn't disappoint.<br />I am so happy to have found this treasure.  I'm hoping that we will see more collections from Marvel UK in the future.	2003-10-24
US	51717849	R23NP7ZHK43RH9	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	2	13	28	N	N	Gaiman should stick with comics	This book gets an incredible amount of praise on Amazon and elsewhere, and the reason why is beyond me.  Neil Gaiman is certainly a very literate writer of comics.  In fact, over the past 15 years or so, he gave the comic medium a degree of culture and style.  This ability, unfortunately, is not present in his novels.  Strangely, the SANDMAN comic, written for a medium that is usually dismissed as children's fare, is much more intellectual than his novels, which contain much adult fare (sex, blood, violence, etc.) but are hardly constructed on an adult reading level.<br />Gaiman's basic premise definitely got my attention: the last showdown between the gods of old civilization and the so-called gods of modern America.  Sounds great... in fact, the whole plot of the novel is a lot of fun.  The problem is that it is carried out in such an amateurish and lackluster fashion.  Gaiman incorporates many tired standards into this novel to further the plot, give foreshadowing, or whatever.  He of all people should know better!  I knew I was in for a questionable read in the first chapter of the book by this classic and wholly original bit of foreshadowing: \\"There's a storm coming\\".  Ooooooh, how dark, and how mysterious.  It didn't send shivers down my spine, but it sure did make my stomach turn.  Why not just start the novel with \\"It was a dark and stormy night\\"?<br />Let's face it: Gaiman works wonders with comics, but his novels are second-rate.	2003-10-07
US	51717849	RYB2E4PDU0CEZ	156389517X	466164344	Neil Gaiman's Midnight Days	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good collection of Gaiman's odds & ends	Neil Gaiman is definitely one of the modern masters of the comic book.  He has taken the medium to new heights with his writing on DC's Sandman.  While he crafted beautiful stories and a very rich cast of characters for that series,  after a while, I got tired of it.  I found myself wishing that the series would wrap up 10 or 20 issues sooner than planned, just so Neil would have the chance to concentrate on other characters in the DC Universe.  This trade collection is just a sample of what could happen.<br /><br />Contained in this trade paperback, you get a collection of the few stories he wrote outside of the regular Sandman series.  The biggest selling point for me are the 3 Swamp Thing stories.  They fit well with Moore & Veitch's work on that series.  The first incorporates the myth of the Green Man/Jack-o-the-Green.  The second features the return of Brother Power, the Geek, showing that he and Swamp Thing have more in common than anyone thought.  The third is the first part of the \\"Shaggy God Stories\\", which was to have done for the plant-related characters of the DCU what Books of Magic did for the mystics.<br /><br />\\"Hold Me\\", from Hellblazer, is one of the best, if not THE best, stories of that series.  Darkly drawn by Dave McKean, it is a simple ghost story that is far more effective than the myriad tales of demons and psychos that make up the bulk of John Constantine's adventures.<br /><br />The final story involves a crossover of sorts between Sandman Mystery Theater and the Sandman of the Endless, titled \\"Sandman Midnight Theater\\", with art by Teddy Kristiansen.  While it reinforces the relationship between Wesley Dodds and Morpheus, the story tends to drag, and I feel it's the weakest one here.	2003-10-07
US	51717849	R3DLLTNXK0BERV	1401200877	480288720	Across the Universe - The DC Universe Stories of Alan Moore	Books	3	13	14	N	N	A wide variety of quality, but good overall	This trade paperback should go over well with fans of Alan Moore's more prominent and masterful works (Watchmen, Killing Joke, Swamp Thing, LOEG, etc).  I will admit that it is nice to have his more obscure DC work from the '80s under one cover, as there are several stories here that I was not familiar with.  Even still, the presence of Alan Moore's name on the cover does not mean that this collection is perfect.  In fact, if someone who had not read any Alan Moore began with this this collection, I feel that they wouldn't understand what the fuss was about.  Some stories are  quite good, and some are quite average.  As he was just getting the feel of some of these characters at the time, I can allow for some slack.  Plus, Alan Moore's &quot;average&quot; is another writer's &quot;exceptional&quot;, so just keep that in mind!<br />Of course, opinions on the quality of the stories will differ between reviewers, but here are my thoughts:<br />The Good - A Superman/Mongul story that creeps along in the beginning but finishes with a nice dark touch.  Three very tight and creative &quot;Tales of the Green Lantern Corps&quot;, especially one involving a GL who comes from a world with no concept of light or color.  A Superman/Swamp Thing team-up that would have been right at home in Moore's regular Swamp Thing gig.  The secret origin of the Phantom Stranger, unnecessarily paralleled with a modern-day reenactment, but still interesting.  A Batman story focusing on Clayface III and his obsession with a department store mannequin.<br />The So-So:  A Green Arrow/Black Canary story that succeeds at being &quot;officially grim and gritty&quot; but didn't make an impression one way or the other.  Two Omega Men back-ups that could have ended with rim-shots.  A Vigilante 2-parter that is far too long - this one was my least favorite, and leaving it out would have been fine by me.  I guess it was meant to be unsettling, and the basic story is okay, but the bright cheery art ruins the effect, and the involvement of two prostitutes gets old very quickly and contributes nothing but eye-rolling melodrama.<br />In closing, I will definitely hang on to this book, as the good stories more than make up for any faults of the others.the effect, and the involvement of two prostitutes gets old very quickly and contributes nothing but eye-rolling melodrama. <br />In closing, I will definitely hang on to this book, as the good stories more than make up for any faults of the others.	2003-09-26
US	51717849	R16E3HUO3DRA8S	0971024952	222430135	Supreme: The Story of the Year	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Anything has potential in the correct hands	Supreme was conceived of by Image no-talent and general comics nuisance Rob Liefeld as a violent, egotistical play on Superman.  I guess that wouldn't be so bad if the guy could actually craft a story, but it was clear from the beginning that this was just another pointless Image comic with grimaces and violence from start to finish.  Enter Alan Moore, comics genius, who could see that there was potential in the character, albeit in the exact opposite direction.  Under his guidance, Supreme became an homage to Superman, and can be jokingly referred to as &quot;the greatest run of Superman comics ever&quot;.  Moore put his imagination into overdrive for this comic.  It contains, by far, some of the best comic writing of the late '90s - early '00s.<br />These stories could only be crafted by someone with an intense love for the Golden and Silver Ages of comics, as well as a deep understanding of Superman.  Moore begins this run with a &quot;revision&quot; of Supreme, in the style of a DC-Crisis epilogue.  From there, he fills in the background of Supreme, step by tantalizing step.  You will learn of Supreme's 60-odd-year history; his origin; his friends, villains, &amp; loves; the extended Supreme Family; and then the &quot;shocking truth&quot; behind his origin. By the time you finish this collection, you will feel closer to him than to any other comic hero.  The writing is complex, but not exclusive, and very insightful.<br />Moore is joined by a team of artists:  Joe Bennett's style, definitely influenced by Image, actually seems to be tempered by the top-notch quality of Moore's writing, to the point where it's almost endearing.  Alex Ross provides a great cover and chapter sketches, featuring his version of Supreme that you don't see in the book but wish you would.  Future regular series artist Chris Sprouse does one issue.  But the crowning achievement in the art department is the work of Rick Veitch.  Veitch, known for his masterful Superman tribute THE MAXIMORTAL, as well as art chores on Moore's 1963 series, fills in the blanks of Supreme's story with masterful recreations of period comics, imitating the dominant art styles and themes of the respective years.  There is plenty of Curt Swan-style artwork, &quot;Modern Art Supreme&quot;, a Steranko photo collage, EC horror work, and best of all: &quot;Supremelvin&quot;, a spot-on parody of the work of Wally Wood and Bill Elder for MAD Mgazine.  The neat thing about Veitch being involved with the art for this comic is that Moore's tight conclusion calls to mind some of Veitch's writing on The Maximortal.  Read both and you'll see what I mean.<br />Do not pass up this book.RTAL, as well as art chores on Moore's 1963 series, fills in the blanks of Supreme's story with masterful recreations of period comics, imitating the dominant art styles and themes of the respective years.  There is plenty of Curt Swan-style artwork, &quot;Modern Art Supreme&quot;, a Steranko photo collage, EC horror work, and best of all: &quot;Supremelvin&quot;, a spot-on parody of the work of Wally Wood and Bill Elder for MAD Mgazine.  The neat thing about Veitch being involved with the art for this comic is that Moore's tight conclusion calls to mind some of Veitch's writing on The Maximortal.  Read both and you'll see what I mean.<br />Do not pass up this book.	2003-09-16
US	51717849	R3LB8R4J0OJ64X	0785109668	463171428	Cage	Books	1	12	15	N	N	Superb art compromised by a horrible story	I was really looking forward to the return/revamp of Luke Cage: Hero for Hire.  Maybe now we'd get a more serious take on a character that was tailor-made for social commentary.  I mean, come on: a \\"hero in the hood\\" who provides his services to anyone who can afford it... why WOULDN'T there be some good potential here?  Unfortunately, writer Brian Azzarello coasts through this story, giving us an unimpressive Cage who is basically just another thug; albeit, a bullet-proof one.  In order to get offically \\"grim and gritty\\", Azzarello fills this tired tale with attitude, bullets, blood, the Mafia, gangstas, nudity, sex, and more oddball characters than a Quentin Tarrantino movie (not a good thing), apparently hoping that this sensory overload will distract the reader from the fact that the storyline is rarely coherent.  What begins with Cage's half-hearted investigation into the accidental death of a child turns first into a turf war, and then into a story of personal validation for Cage.  So what about the child?  What about the child's mother?  Mr. Azzarello, was there a point to this story?  Was there any closure intended?  The only good aspect of this book is the artwork of the great Richard Corben.  This guy has got to demand better material from the publisher.  He's one of the masters of comic art, doing work for BOTH Marvel and DC, yet he gets garbage like this.  GIVE THIS MAN THE RESPECT HE DESERVES!!!<br />In closure, the art may make this book look tempting, but don't bother with it.  You'll be glad you didn't!	2003-08-28
US	51717849	R28GJFEVQF51S2	1563899841	926992408	Jimmy Olsen: Adventures by Jack Kirby - Volume 1	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Getting started with the Fourth World	I'm a big fan of Jack Kirby's Fourth World concept and will give anything related to it a shot.  DC has done a good thing in the past few years by reprinting Kirby's original New Gods, Mister Miracle, and Forever People.  This collection, reprinting his stories and art from SUPERMAN'S PAL JIMMY OLSEN, is an odd but welcome addition.  This is where Kirby slowly introduced some of the concepts that would eventually lead into the NEW GODS series.  You get brief appearances by Darkseid and Lightray, pre-&quot;boom tubes&quot;, and loads of Kirbytech.  Keep in mind, however, that the Fourth World is NOT the focus of this book.  It's more on the freaky adventures of Jimmy Olsen and the Newsboy Legion, with Superman thrown in for broader appeal.  &quot;Freaky&quot; is an understatement, actually, as many of the characters and situations in these stories make absolutely no sense at all; however, it's a great opportunity for Kirby to pack the pages with bizarre monsters, outrageous characters,  and ham-fisted references to the '70s counterculture.  Trust me, when you see Superman spouting hippie lingo, you'll reach for the Pepto Bismol.  Krby's take on the Newsboy Legion is well-intended but quite painful, especially with the inclusion of the unfortunately named Flippa-Dippa, token black character and background prop.  So, if you're a Kirby fan like I am, pick this up.  Just be aware that the story is definitely not up to par with his later Fourth World stories.  The cover is a Kirby pencil design inked by Steve Rude, and an informative introduction by Mark Evanier sheds some light on the stories.	2003-08-15
US	51717849	RBYYGG89F4BOE	1569719985	280051870	The Goon Volume 1: Nothin' But Misery (Goon (Graphic Novels))	Books	3	6	13	N	N	Good for a start...	Eric Powell's \\"The Goon\\" didn't appeal to me at first. Yet again, we had another monstrous hero who fights monsters, and it was made worse by the fact that his appearance was VERY similar to Eddie Campbell's Bacchus. At the recommendation of several fanatical comic shop owners, I checked it out. They claimed that, if I liked Hellboy, I'd like this.<br />Well, the story is certainly not as fleshed-out or detailed as Hellboy, but I can say that I enjoyed it. It's full of humor, both overt and subtle (and the random advertisements are superb). Powell provides enough background info on the Goon so that he's not just another pointless hero. Even though this is a collection of individual stories, there is a thread running through them, and hopefully Powell will expand more on this in the future. The Goon is just getting into the swing of things, so I can give him some slack.<br />The artwork is definitely entertaining and very well-executed - Powell's superb technical skills are highlighted in a section featuring the origin of a supporting character, the Buzzard,  who will hopefully play a larger role in future stories. Honestly, I wouldn't mind seeing a Buzzard solo comic.  In conclusion, I'm looking forward to more of the Goon, just to see what Eric Powell can do.	2003-08-04
US	51717849	R2XIZO0RL2T8V7	0064409945	341605852	The Thief of Always	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Pretty good, as long as you keep it in perspective.	Someone who is only familiar with Clive Barker's more graphic adult horror novels and stories may be surprised by the lighter tone of this book.  That's because it's intended more for younger readers, with the emphasis on adventure and frights.  It's a very basic story of good versus evil, with a definite moral.  That doesn't mean that adults can't enjoy it, however.  I loved it, as it reminded me stylistically of the works of Ray Bradbury.  You won't get any grand character development, but Barker does a great job of mixing senses of wonder and terror, as well as keeping the reader in a constant state of suspense.  Almost every chapter ends with some type of hook that will keep drawing you deeper.  The author's illustrations perfectly capture the mood of the story, as well.  It's quick reading and won't take up too much of your time, so give it a try!	2003-08-01
US	51717849	R33A1G95MZMPDS	0743459032	6240646	Vic And Blood: The Continuing Adventures Of A Boy And His Dog	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Classic Corben back in print from iBooks as of June 2003	Sure, Harlan Ellison wrote the classic stories, but my first exposure to the adventures of Vic and Blood came through Richard Corben's comic adaptations. I read Ellison's stories later and was happy to find that the comics were very faithful adaptations. It's good to see, therefore, that the iBooks paperback edition of VIC & BLOOD - THE CONTINUING ADVENTURES OF A BOY & HIS DOG gives you the chance to compare the comics with the original stories, all in one book! You get both comic and text versions of \\"Eggsucker\\", \\"A Boy and His Dog\\", and \\"Run Spot Run\\", and the texts are accompanied by a handfull of highly detailed Corben illustrations, along with sidebar quotes from Blood (The Wit and Wisdom of Blood). It's a very attractive package, led off with a humorous introduction by Ellison that touches on his supposed upcoming novel BLOOD'S A ROVER (will we ever see it? I can only hope). While this type of literature might not be everyone's cup of tea, I give this book 5 stars for presentation, as well as its appeal to fans of Ellison and Corben - they will love it.	2003-07-18
US	51717849	RMQFL9GHPFR2R	0312034717	6240646	Vic and Blood: The Chronicles of a Boy and His Dog	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Classic Corben back in print from iBooks as of June 2003	Sure, Harlan Ellison wrote the classic stories, but my first exposure to the adventures of Vic and Blood came through Richard Corben's comic adaptations.  I read Ellison's stories later and was happy to find that the comics were very faithful adaptations.  It's good to see, therefore, that the iBooks paperback edition of VIC & BLOOD - THE CONTINUING ADVENTURES OF A BOY & HIS DOG gives you the chance to compare the comics with the original stories, all in one book!  You get both comic and text versions of \\"Eggsucker\\", \\"A Boy and His Dog\\", and \\"Run Spot Run\\", and the texts are accompanied by a handfull of highly detailed Corben illustrations, along with sidebar quotes from Blood (The Wit and Wisdom of Blood).  It's a very attractive package, led off with a humorous introduction by Ellison that touches on his supposed upcoming novel BLOOD'S A ROVER (will we ever see it?  I can only hope).  While this type of literature might not be everyone's cup of tea, I give this book 5 stars for presentation, as well as its appeal to fans of Ellison and Corben - they will love it.	2003-06-22
US	51717849	RRGCJ5PT6TMMT	1569719101	449677878	The Art of Hellboy	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Great art collection	I paid retail for this book and have no qualms about doing so.  It's defintely worth it, whether bought from Amazon or some other vendor.  The Art of Hellboy is an oversized cloth-bound harcover with embossing, metallic ink, and a glued illustration on the cover.  A fairly short introduction gets you set up for the barrage of Hellboy-related art that is to follow!  You get color works, covers, pin-ups, sketches, preliminary drawings, comic page roughs, completed comic pages, concept art... the list goes on and on.  The only downside is that many of these pieces have either been used in other Hellboy books or have appeared elsewhere.  Still, it's nice to see them in a larger size.  This is a beautiful book, end of story!	2003-04-16
US	51717849	R19ULRG5I2CRDQ	1893905020	616996867	Collected Jack Kirby Collector Volume 3	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Affordable format for the Kirby enthusiast	The importance of Jack Kirby to comics can never be overstated. The man redefined the medium's look and atmosphere. His high-energy renderings, amazing concepts, and \\"Kirby-tech\\" have influenced the style of comic artists for all time, whether they know it or not.<br />TwoMorrows Publishing releases issues of \\"The Jack Kirby Collector\\" on a somewhat regular basis. If you can stand the wait, you can eventually pick up the trade-bound format containing several issues. The trade edition is a bit smaller (dimension-wise), but it's also much easier to store and more of a bargain. With these trades, you get page after page of Kirby art, as well as articles, and interviews with those who either knew him or were influenced by him. The art isn't just pin-ups and portraits - it also includes reproductions of entire pages of comic art (some as pencil roughs), sketches, and unfinished projects for comics and animation. It can get a bit tedious at times, but there's always at least 2 interesting articles per issue. It's certainly a publication made more for the fan, but shouldn't everyone be a fan of ol' Jack? Even if you're not, I think this series does a great job of explaining to the casual reader just what made Kirby's art, vision, and storytelling so special.	2003-03-25
US	51717849	R1SGBOYL2VK8QO	156389937X	203765822	JLA/JSA: Virtue and Vice (Justice League (DC Comics))	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good but not great...	This story, featuring a much-desired crossover between the post-Crisis JSA and JLA, would have definitely benefitted from an extra 40 or so pages.  It's fairly complex, packing the two super-teams and several villains into one 96-page hardcover.<br />I always have mixed feelings about these hardcovers, as they usually have too much story for such little space.  The action moves along lickety-split with huge amounts of plot and exposition left to the reader's imagination.  Scenes change with almost no order, and the progression is very rushed.  As a result, you end up with a book that can be finished fairly quickly, not living up to the cover price.<br />The premise is interesting to me, particularly because it involves the Shazam mythos to a large degree, and I guess Goyer does a serviceable job with the space he was given.  The trip into Dr. Fate's Tower and the return of the JSA to Limbo were well-done.  Plus, there are several good bits of humor, such as the confrontation between Firestorm and Johnny Sorrow. And even though Plastic Man's modern interpretation annoys me, he is written fairly well.  Pacheco's artwork is beautiful as always, and I love seeing him try his hand at illustrating these two teams.<br />In short, this easily could have been a limited series, expanding on the story and providing more detail (plus more Pacheco artwork... oh well).	2003-03-11
US	51717849	R22YF6Z7EP9YFG	0446392456	153154670	The Prisoner	Books	1	8	13	N	N	Curses!  What was the point?	I am a huge fan of The Prisoner TV series and go cuckoo for anything associated with it.  I'm even keen on the so-so novels by Thomas Disch, but the DC Comics graphic novel &quot;Shattered Visage&quot;, by Motter and Askwith, is an absolute mess.<br />The basic plot is interesting, in a nostalgic way, and if the authors would have gone deeper, maybe this story could have been salvaged.  Focusing on a grim-and-gritty &quot;post-Village&quot; life for Nos. 2 and 6 sounds like an interesting read (especially No. 2's incarceration and subsequent book, and 6's breakdown).  The problem is that you barely get to read about them at all.  The focus is instead on bland new characters who are uncovering the existence and purpose of the Village, and 2 and 6 are secondary.  Furthermore, it undoes some major points that were established in the series finale &quot;Fall Out&quot;, and once they go messing with that, I don't get interested; just angry.  So I guess that this book isn't meant for long-time fans of The Prisoner, because why would we want to read about the adventures of a bunch of nobodies uncovering (or undoing) what we already know?<br />The writers, however, try to reel the fans back in and impress us with their &quot;clever&quot; use of dialogue and scenery from the TV series, but this is another thing that makes the book so irritating.  It's as if they picked their favorite blocks of dialogue from the show, and purposefully wrote the entire book around their incorporation.  An occasional &quot;be seeing you&quot; would be fine, but Motter &amp; Askwith use SO MUCH dialogue from the TV series that I challenge their claim to be the writers of this book.<br />Let's not forget the art: horrific pencil scratches that benefit little from the inking, and flat washed-out colors that make deciphering the panels a chore.  Also, would it have hurt to include some backgrounds in the panels?  Overall, the art has no detail or depth and makes this a visually boring tale.  My advice is, watch the TV series, revel in its greatness, and skip this book.advice is, watch the TV series, revel in its greatness, and skip this book.	2003-02-27
US	51717849	RSV2XZHH9WFKM	1563898950	376679323	Crisis on Multiple Earths - VOL 01	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Much more fun than Crisis on Infinite Earths	Obviously! These are stories from the early '60s, when comics were happy. This trade paperback collects the early interdimensional team-ups between the JLA and JSA. This is some good old-fashioned reading, complete with lots of inexplicable and downright ridiculous plot devices from writer Gardner Fox. BUT, for the all the absurdity in Fox's writing, he balances it with amazing creativity and some brilliant comedy (as when Johnny Thunder's T-Bolt travels back in time to put the kibosh on Batman's crimefighting career; it's like something out of MAD Magazine). Mike Sekowsky's artwork, while simple, is very appealing, especially from a design standpoint. I'd bet my lunch money that indy favorite Dan Clowes studied his work more than once. SEE the first appearance of the Crime Syndicate (in their original costumes) in a tale that puts Grant Morrison's JLA: Earth 2 rewrite to shame! SEE the eeeevil JLA, courtesy of the just-as-eeeevil Johnny Thunder! SEE Solomon Grundy and Blockbuster whip up on everything!<br />This is a great companion volume to COIE, but I'd rather read this one any day. It's certainly not as convoluted, and afterwards, I don't feel as if I have to sit down and decompress. It could use a few more stories, such as the original meeting between the Earth-1 and Earth-2 Flashes. Also, some of the stories begin abruptly, and it'd be nice to have some background supplied before the tale begins, instead of having to read the panel notes.<br />Oh yeah, the cover by Alex Ross is great!	2003-02-11
US	51717849	R2FVSCDZR3N9QB	1563897989	828813323	History of the DC Universe	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Quick historical overview of the DCU	This was originally released in a 2-issue prestige format to put the cap on Crisis On Infinite Earths, presenting the restructured history of the DC Universe.  The new cover by Alex Ross gets a thumbs-up, naturally.  The artwork by Perez is beautiful as always, and he once again packs the pages with characters.  Not to the degree of COIE, but they're still a joy to look at.  Cheers to Wolfman for the concept, but the writing gets a bit tedious at times.  How many different ways can the narrator, Harbinger, ask &quot;What is a hero?&quot;  Too many times, for my taste.  I think the book would have benefitted more from a chronological presentation with timelines, rather than a generic narrative.  Still, it's a great one to have, especially since you get coverage of many minor characters who didn't get much attention in COIE: Firehair, Neptune Perkins, and of all people, the Viking Commando???  Waa-hoo!	2003-02-09
US	51717849	R2OPNJGZG9AT7X	0312878273	652735495	Nightmare At 20,000 Feet: Horror Stories By Richard Matheson	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Good collection	After having quite a Richard Matheson drought for many years, there are finally 4 of his short story/novella collections in print, and this is good news. With the horror shelves packed full of splatterpunk and vampirephile garbage, it's time to get back to the subtle horror writers; the ones who didn't need to incorporate buckets of blood, piles of entrails, sex, sex, and more sex in order to tell a story. Matheson is one of those subtle writers - not the best, but definitely up there. He writes like a darker Ray Bradbury, using a very straightforward style, a sense of innocence and mystery, and just a hint of evil, requiring you to fill in the details. Think of Bradbury's early horror stories (like the stuff adapted in EC Comics), and you'll get the idea.<br />The title story of this collection will surely get the most recognition, but it's by no means the best here. I rank \\"Long Distance Call\\" as my favorite, followed by \\"The Distributor\\". It also contains \\"Prey\\", famously adapted in the movie Trilogy Of Terror. Don't get me wrong - there are a few turkeys here that will make you question their inclusion, but that shouldn't ruin your appreciation of a true master of the horror genre.<br />Finally, for those who have never read Matheson before, beware: the introduction by Stephen King, who frequently names Matheson as an influence, is surprisingly lackluster. Don't let his intro affect your decision to read the book!	2003-01-17
US	51717849	R26IQ33IVF0N49	0811821110	770814010	Superman Masterpiece Edition: The Golden Age of America's First Super Hero	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A bit better than the Batman release	Very similar to the Batman Masterpiece Edition, this is a beautiful, but oversized and pricey, package. It consists of a large reinforced cardboard box containing a softcover reprint of Superman #1 and an abbreviated hardcover version of Les Daniels' Superman: The Complete History.  Where the Batman Masterpiece contains a 9&quot; Mego-style Batman figure, the Superman Masterpiece contains a superb 7&quot; sculpture of Superman, designed by Alex Ross, reflecting his first appearance in Action Comics.  Actually, the statue could be a maquette for the Fleischer Superman cartoons.  It's really impressive!  The box lid opens like a book, and the arrangement of the items within is very nice, giving them maximum visibility. This display, however, causes the box to be about twice the size of what it needs to be. Because of its large size and abundance of empty space, I guess Chronicle thought they could get away with it being  priced so high.  The Superman statue is so well-done, however, that I'll give it an extra star over the Batman Masterpiece.  I even bought a second one so that I could display the statue.	2002-12-26
US	51717849	R5DTUXVOR77WD	0785107134	356345941	Golden Age Of Marvel Volume 2 TPB (House of Ideas Collection)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	One of Marvel's last significant hurrahs	In the late '90s, Marvel was going down the tubes, both financially and creatively. There was an enormous amount of dreck flooding the shelves, and no matter what schemes they tried, either with product or licensing, they were losing money like crazy. Before declaring bankruptcy, they released two trade paperback collections of their Golden Age material, presenting a selection of the best of that era. While they may not have been well-received by the younger crowd, it was one of the best ideas Marvel had in a while (definitely going against the grain), and it was a treat for fans of comic history. Once again, readers could enjoy the simplistic stories of classic WW-II Marvel characters such as Captain America, Sub-Mariner, the Angel, the Destroyer, Marvel Boy, the Fin, Citizen V, and the Human Torch.<br />The Golden Age of Marvel Comics, Volumes 1 and 2 can be considered Marvel's equivalent of a public service. It's historical preservation in a market that has a notoriously short attention span. When the majority of fans and retailers were demanding more high-octane heroes showering their foes with bullets, we got two beautiful yet affordable collections of Golden Age greats, showing readers that, while the stories and art of the Golden Age might not have been all that \\"golden\\", the characters and their appeal more than made up for it. You can clearly see the elements of these stories that fascinated aspiring writers and artists, leading to their expanding these characters in ways never dreamed of during Marvel's Silver Age and beyond. The covers for both volumes are beautiful: for 1, a battle scene by Ray Lago; for 2, a Kirby/Theakston image. The intros provide some very good historical perspective on the contents.<br />Marvel is now back on its feet, sort of, but don't expect these books to be reprinted anytime in the near future.  The current crowd at Marvel seems to be even more out of touch than the previous one and apparently has no understanding of the treasure it is sitting on.sure it is sitting on.	2002-12-26
US	51717849	RAFU1EWNDH0IL	0380679752	355080462	War Year	Books	3	11	11	N	N	A quick read, but still engaging	War Year could qualify as a novella rather than an actual novel. It's only about 120 pages, and I finished it in less than 5 hours. It almost reads like a diary, following the path of a combat engineer through his tour in Viet Nam. The writing style is very simple and straightforward, not getting too caught up in details or characterization. You get names for characters, and maybe some insight into a personality trait or two, but it's really just enough for an ID. As a result, you won't get very involved with any of the characters, but they serve to tell a good story. I believe that this was Joe Haldeman's first effort to get his wartime experiences in print, and it reads as such: there are some instances in the story that seem very personal and too real. Certain activities are laid out with an education slant, so you get some good information about what GIs had to do to survive. The ending is quite abrupt and darkly humorous, and contributes even more to the feeling of detachment initiated by the slight characterization. Please note that if you want to really experience Haldeman writing about war, try \\"1968\\", a truly exceptional novel.	2002-12-23
US	51717849	R2YS6CIJQ2MZGG	1563890445	367908205	Swamp Thing: Dark Genesis	Books	5	17	18	N	N	As of 12/18/02, finally back in print!	It's about time! I missed out on this collection the first time around, but never again will I be without the early issues of the original Swamp Thing by Len Wein & Berni Wrightson. This trade paperback collects the very first story from House of Secrets #92 and the first ten issues of the series it inspired in the early '70s. This is by no means the elemental-fantasy Swamp Thing of Moore/Totleben; this is the horror-oriented version that is more at home in an EC comic or Warren magazine. The classic stories by Wein have some laughably expressive narration and melodramatic dialogue, but they don't detract from the superb plots, including the first appearance of Arcane and his Un-Men, the Patchwork Man, and a great \\"team-up\\" with Batman (In fact, I feel that the first 3 issues of the series make up one of the best comic stories ever written).  Wrightson's textural and creepy artwork will make you feel the moss and dirt crumbling off of Swampy with every step he takes. Don't get me wrong: I love both incarnations of this character, and Moore & Totleben are no slouches, but Wein & Wrightson will always come first for me.	2002-12-19
US	51717849	RDUZP56HHQRCL	0811827828	228148904	Batman Masterpiece Edition: The Caped Crusader's Golden Age	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Would be worth 5 stars if it retailed for less	This is a beautiful, if unnecessarily oversized and pricey, package.  It consists of a large reinforced cardboard box containing a softcover reprint of Batman #1, an abbreviated hardcover version of Les Daniels' Batman: The Complete History, and a great 9&quot; Mego-style Batman figure, with cloth outfit and the best head sculpt I've ever seen, recalling his first appearance in Detective Comics.  The box lid opens like a book, and the arrangement of the items within is very nice, giving them maximum visibility.  This great display, however, causes the box to be about twice the size of what it needs to be.  And because of its large size, is it really necessary for it to be priced so high?  While it looks impressive, this material is honestly not worth the retail price	2002-12-12
US	51717849	R1RE760MWDFDEP	1582341362	760624144	Odds & Ends	Books	4	4	4	N	N	What a neat book!	Don't let the fact that it's a remaindered book keep you away!  This is a wonderful hardcover collection (no jacket) of Crumb extras:  doodles, sketches, advertisements, and comics.  The majority are in black and white, but there is some color.  Great drawings of Robert Johnson, the Cheap Suit Serenaders, and Tina Lockwood (wooo!), as well as sketches of various women.  A few of his trademark characters are also here, including Devil Girl and the Vulture Women.  Some photos are included, as well.  It's an absolute bargain!	2002-11-14
US	51717849	R1T81L6SRF6SS4	0345326806	101839556	Michael Whelan's Works of Wonder	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A good intro to Whelan's work	I finally located this at a used bookstore after years of searching, and the time was well worth it!  This out-of-print book is not as comprehensive as &quot;The Art of Michael Whelan&quot;, but it certainly does the job for me.  It contains beautiful reproductions of his sci-fi and fantasy book covers up to 1989, when it was published.  My main reasons for wanting this book are the inclusion of the oversized piece done for &quot;The Best of HP Lovecraft&quot; and the John Carter of Mars gallery, reprinting every cover done for ER Burroughs' Mars series.  Many of the pieces are framed with conceptual sketches, giving food for thought on how these beautiful works could have turned out differently.  Other works include covers for Heinlein, Niven, Piers Anthony, and Asimov's &quot;Robots&quot; series.	2002-11-14
US	51717849	R2G30Z7EH8H25W	0743452615	680818412	Dangerous Visions, 35th Anniversary Edition	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Finally a reprint!	Alrighty! It's about time someone got this book back on the shelves. Leave it to Ibooks, who is bringing a lot of lost classics back into print. Dangerous Visions is the 35-year-old award-winning anthology edited by Harlan Ellison, in which the hot writers of the time could show off some stuff that likely wouldn't appear in the regular publications. There are some enjoyable stories here, and I won't go into detail since the other reviewers cover that. I will agree, however, that some stories aren't quite up to snuff, but the good ones more than make up for it.<br />I am especially happy that this printing contains the original header illustrations by Leo and Diane Dillon. When this reprint was announced and I saw the new cover, I was worried that all trace of the Dillons would be gone. That just wouldn't be right, since the book was originally dedicated to them. I wasn't let down! One comment involving this: it appears that instead of doing new typesetting for these larger trade paperback pages, the publisher may have simply enlarged the original pages and printed them as is. Where the type for the introductions is very crisp and clear, the type and headers for the stories looks oversized and bold. I could be wrong, however...<br />On to the cover! Be aware that there are THREE different versions(that I know of, maybe more?). The first is of a woman peering through a wall of windows. The second is a fractal type of pattern. The third, which I purchased, is a very impressive photo of a barefoot man in coat & tie with daVinci wings on his arms preparing to leap off of a cliff. For all three versions, the back cover shows the full image of the original dust jacket by the Dillons. All in all, a very attractive package... a reprint done right!	2002-10-23
US	51717849	R1XTIIJE3JNWKY	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	4	2	3	N	N	informative overview of the industry & our acceptance of it	FFN is a very good look at many aspects of the fast food industry, such as its history, business practices, employees, politics, expansion, and public relations.  The book is full of information that probably won't sit easily with a lot of readers.  I can believe just about everything I read in it, for I'm a microbiologist and have first-hand experience with some of the topics.  It's made all the worse by the fact that, as I write this, Pilgrim's Pride/Wampler Foods is recalling 27.4 million pounds of meat to test for Listeria.  The most disturbing part (and I already felt this way, the book just affirmed it) was how these businesses (I can't even call them \\"restaurants\\") portray themselves as our friends, part of what makes America great, and then feed us absolute garbage; garbage which becomes part of us.  Would you do this to your friend?  Hopefully not.  Of course, in the end, you have only yourself to blame for eating this junk, especially with the abundance of information out there that says to stay away from it.<br />The book is well-written and researched, and the historical information was fascinating.  It's interesting to learn how Ray Kroc, JR Simplot, and others built themselves up from humble beginnings into millionaires, but then you see the results of their combined success, and you can only shake your head.  The end notes, while essentially supporting  the text, are very informative on their own and should not be ignored.  While the bulk of the chapters are fact-based, the endings of some sections get a bit dramatic at times, as if the author is trying for that final emotional bomb before moving on to the next topic.<br />Overall, it's a recommended book.  Schlosser has inspired me to reread Upton Sinclair's \\"The Jungle\\".  Maybe that reading combo wouldn't be a bad idea for all of us.	2002-10-15
US	51717849	R21FRZ9YHUV247	0803292406	732800244	The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Very attractive edition	This review is for the edition published by the University of Nebraska Press, and it's based more on the design of the book than on the story itself.  This is a perfect example of how to make a work of classic literature more appealing.  Honestly, it's no surprise to me that most people avoid classics, seeing what they're given... Publishers' attitudes towards classic literature these days seems to be to produce the cheapest version that they can with no regard to the appeal of the book.  They're already ahead in that they don't have to pay the author any royalties, but then most will also use an obscure painting or generic photo for the book cover that usually has very little to do with the contents and makes for an overall boring package.  It certainly doesn't help the reader's attitude toward the book in particular.  Apparently, the UNP understands this, and they decided to do something about it with many of their books.  This particular edition of \\"The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde\\" has a cover and illustrations by Barry Moser, woodcut artist extraordinaire.  The pictures are very atmospheric, with a heavy reliance on shadow.  This makes the dark nature of the story all the more substantial.  Even the typeface looks good.  Overall, a lot of care was put into the production of this edition.  The book is about the same size as a mass market paperback, so it will fit easily on your shelf.  That's a sensible thing, as the story is actually quite short, so there's no reason to release it in an oversized format with enlarged type and an increased price.<br />In case you're wondering; yes, I do like the story.  In fact, I've enjoyed it ever since I was a child.  This edition just makes it all the more special to me.  The only negative I can see is that you have to pay ... retail for a fairly small book, but the overall package makes it worth it.	2002-10-09
US	51717849	R2TG8IZZFY22BT	0060011823	657014958	Bradbury: Illustrated Life, a Journey to Far Metaphor	Books	5	10	11	N	N	WOW, what a beautiful book	This harcover book is a great pictorial overview of Ray Bradbury's career - not focusing so much on his life, but more on his life's product.  Page after page of photos, with special attention given to his stories, as well as the movies, plays, comics, and other things based on them.  It contains an abundance of personal photos, harcover and paperback cover images, movie stills, behind-the-scenes photos, EC comic pages, discussions of the artists most associated with Bradbury's works, and even some rough drafts and alternate versions of book covers.  If you collect Bradbury's works, you'll find this an invaluable resource towards recognizing different printings of his books, even foreign editions.  ALSO, if you are a fan of the Collectors Press series of hardcovers, (Pulp Culture, Fantasy/Horror/Science Fiction of the 20th Century, and others), you should definitely purchase this!  You won't be disappointed!	2002-10-06
US	51717849	R1GBWXEOPHLZP6	074344406X	9077745	Captain Nemo: The Fantastic History of a Dark Genius	Books	1	4	10	N	N	The pot calls the kettle black	So:<br />Jules Verne, one of the founding fathers of Science Fiction, is revealed to be a bad writer who relies on a severely bastardized Captain Nemo to supply him with ideas.  This is just beautiful!  I find it fitting that this premise is conceived of by Kevin J. Anderson, a writer who has relied on other writer's ideas for his career (Star Wars, Dune, X-Files, etc.).<br />Please, if you have any respect for Jules Verne or classic literature in general, do NOT bother with this book.  Nemo, as envisioned by Anderson, bears almost no resemblance to the character depicted in 20,000 LUTS and Mysterious Island.  I checked it out of the library, so at least I didn't have to pay; however, that's 4 nights of reading time that I can never reclaim.	2002-08-30
US	51717849	R1H8OS2IBLTFYH	0345440919	685854664	Pavane (Del Rey Impact)	Books	2	2	11	N	N	Maybe better as individual stories than as a whole	The overall premise is fairly interesting: an alternate version of the world, all resulting from the assassination of Queen Elizabeth I.  The book is a collection of short stories set in this world, showing how society functions within the scientific boundaries imposed by the Catholic Church.  The individual stories are fairly well-written, especially the first.  The big problem for me was my having settled into the premise of the book, and then getting to the end and realizing that things aren't what they seem.  While I normally like surprise endings, the particular twist of this one was just too much to accept.  I think readers would have a better time with the book A Canticle for Leibowitz, by Walter Miller.	2002-08-30
US	51717849	R3E0YFQ0MRIIDK	1879505096	653967962	The Twilight Zone Companion	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Excellent series guide	I like this book for the background it gives on Rod Serling and his Twilight Zone series, but I LOVE it for the fact that it gives wonderful summaries of each episode, with both intros and afterwords, and discussions of each.  Zicree's writing style is very direct and doesn't labor too long on any one point - he provides just the right amount of information, especially in showing Serling's journey from a young hopeful to a major force in television.  Plenty of photos are provided as well.  Serling's short story adaptations of his screenplays and the original tales by other TZ contributors (Matheson, et al.) are currently out of print, and if I can't have the stories, at least I get these synopses.  Definitely a worthwhile investment.	2002-07-08
US	51717849	RM6QOD12JVO6M	1569716838	719041683	Vampires	Books	2	6	7	N	N	More info for the prospective purchaser...	This book contains work by many comics creators, both American and abroad. Be aware that it's only 48 pages in hardcover! It was originally published by Editions Carabas in Europe, but this particular version was released in the US by Dark Horse Comics (its first English translation). This is a collection of pin-ups and short stories all focusing on vampires. The stories are very much like what you'd find in Heavy Metal: great artwork, with plots ranging from decent to confusing. The lineup includes Bryan Talbot, Philippe Caza, Benot Springer, David Lloyd, Mike Mignola (pin-up), Tommy Lee Edwards, Richard Marazano, Gary Gianni (pin-up), Yoann and Sfar (hilarious Batman parody), and others. The book is topped off by a great cover by Matthieu Lauffray. Basically, the book looks great but is lacking in coherent storylines and content. Still, if you're a comic art afficionado, this is a good deal.	2002-05-24
US	51717849	R3HS9L7WAYJ3GB	1888054123	881515166	Pulp Culture: The Art of Fiction Magazines	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Beautiful overview of pulp cover art	I puchased this book for 50% off, and after reading it, I can say that even at full price, it would have been worth it.  Page after page of bright clear reproductions of pulp covers, many almost full-page, with any extra space filled with smaller images.  The book is divided into chapters based on subject matter: Westerns, Super Heroes, Sci-Fi, Horror, Gangsters, etc.  The text is informative, but minimal - it provides just enough background on each chapter's subject and then lets the art speak for itself.  Each cover is accompanied with information on the issue and artist, plus some informative personal commentary from the author.  Plenty of top-notch artists are included, such as Wyeth, Baumhofer, etc.  Don't buy this for an in-depth analysis of pulp magazines; the star here is definitely the art, and it delivers in spades.	2002-05-21
US	51717849	R1RJG31JEEOOB2	0811831795	267536011	Jack Cole and Plastic Man: Forms Stretched to Their Limits	Books	2	14	17	N	N	Lightweight overview, poor presentation	I have no doubt that Art Spiegelman loves Jack Cole and his classic creation, Plastic Man; however, I don't think that this book does a good job of explaining to readers why THEY should love them, too. Granted, Cole was one of the pioneers of comics, and his place in their history is cemented, but Spiegelman's praise of Cole and his visual style/storytelling could easily be used for any number of other comic creators (Will Eisner, Harvey Kurtzman, Bob Kane, etc.). The text is very generic in trying to explain Cole's genius, and I, a comics history buff, was quickly bored by it. As for Chip Kidd's book design... thumbs up for the plastic cover, but the intentionally poor reproduction quality (for nostaligic purposes, I assume) only hinders the appeal of the art and makes for a very ugly book. Kidd's design style caught my attention when it first hit the scene, but after numerous retrospective hardcovers for DC Comics and a Peanuts collection, it just gives me a headache. If you want a real lesson on the talent of Jack Cole and wish to revel in the adventures of Plastic Man, pick up any volume of the Plastic Man Archives, available from Amazon at a very reasonable price.	2002-05-07
US	51717849	R1DR70FHPPTK3O	0743434919	65408802	The MAD Reader (Bk. 1)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Potrzebie	I never thought I would see reprints of the original MAD paperback collections, but now, thanks to ibooks, I'm a happy man.  This particular book reprints the first paperback, which itself was reprinted material from the early issues of the MAD comic book (yep, it used to be a comic, and much more comic-oriented).  It includes classic work by Kurtzman, Davis, Elder, Wood, et al., that holds up surprisingly well today and is much funnier than MAD will ever be again.  Enjoy the parodies of Dragnet, Archie, The Lone Ranger, and Superman vs. Captain Marvel, as well as goofs on the Comics Code, the HUAC hearings, and much more.  Sure, some of the humor may be dated... sure, some of it may be over people's heads... but that's part of the appeal of classic MAD: the historical  and cultural aspects of the humor.  The average joe won't pick this book up and instantly understand everything within, but with a little studying, plus reading the excellent introductions to this edition, you'll get a good idea of the prevailing attitudes of the time, as well as the changing face of humor in the media.  It looks like ibooks intends to reprint a significant number of the MAD paperbacks, which can only be a good thing in today's humor market.	2002-04-03
US	51717849	R1JY0F2YCGPCO3	0785108238	187414410	Fantastic Firsts	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Huh?	This book is a softcover reprint of the original Marvel Limited hardcover that was released several years ago... sort of. With this softcover, you get the first appearances (or first issues) of the majority of Marvel's classic Silver Age heroes, the ones on which they built their reputation: Spider-Man, the FF, Thor, Capt. America, Hulk, X-Men, Nick Fury & SHIELD, the Howling Commandos, Avengers, Ant-Man, Daredevil, Dr. Strange, Silver Surfer,Sub-Mariner, etc. Of course, these are stories by Lee, Kirby, Ditko, and others - the fathers of modern comics. The stories and art are a bit plain at times compared to today's stuff, but that can only be a good thing, as today's writers and artists could learn tons about plot and design from studying them! From a historical perspective, it's invaluable. A ~400 page treasury of Silver-Age greats, and at a very affordable price.  The Kirbyesque cover by Bruce Timm is a hoot (worth the price of the book alone), and the paper quality and printing are exceptional.<br />I do have a big problem with this book, however: the inclusion of Wolverine. I know that Wolverine is a popular character, but please, Marvel, give us a break. Fantastic Firsts is a chance to spotlight your classic heroes - the ones that exhibit true heroic qualities, not ones that have a reputation built on bloodlust and a bad attitude. Even then, it doesn't include the true first appearance of Wolverine (Hulk #181), but gives the first issue of the \\"Origin\\" limited series, which is by no means complete, and doesn't even feature him in his costume. If this is intended as a bonus, I certainly don't appreciate it.  Wolverine ruins the context of the book, and prevents me from giving it 5 stars.	2002-03-29
US	51717849	R2EMX9ZO2PW60Z	1563897954	951582114	Doom Patrol Archives, The: Volume 1 (Archive Editions (Graphic Novels))	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	The most beautiful DC Archive I've seen	If, like me, you were turned on to Doom Patrol during Morrison and Case's run in the early 90s (a classic in itself, but that's another story) and want to find out more, then you must buy this book!  I didn't have access to the original tales from the '60s by Drake, Haney, and Premiani, so I had to settle for the summary in Secret Origins Annual.  Now I can have the real thing with Volume 1 of the Doom Patrol Archives.  I must admit that the basic plots are cookie-cutter, but the characters are great, and Premiani's art stands out with lots of detail and effective use of shadow.  Plus, you can see that this comic started out by embracing all that was weird; it didn't become that way later on!  The reproduction is crystal-clear, much better than I've seen for other editions.  This is a good investment for fans of DP both young and old, as well as a sterling example of what was good about the Silver Age of Comics.	2002-03-07
US	51717849	R1J3FB3U5XMZRH	074343479X	538953758	Eye	Books	4	6	9	N	N	iBooks, keep them coming!	Cheers to iBooks for apparently being the only major publisher who cares about resurrecting classic sci-fi for the current market.  They've put several books by R. Zelazny back in print, and they seem to be on the road to reprinting Berkley's Masterworks of Sci-Fi &amp; Fantasy series, of which this book was one, originally released in the mid-80s.  This short-lived series, consisting of story collections by the pros of the genre, was amazing.  The care that was put into the product is something readers don't get today.  Not only did you get a good selection of stories, but also many extras such as fantastic artwork (both covers and interior), informative story intros (as with A.C. Clarke), or biographical sketches (as with Fritz Leiber).  &quot;Eye&quot; has a good intro by Herbert discussing the Dune movie, and you get the brief titular story, which is an excerpt from an Arrakian tour guide, complete with illustrations of characters and landmarks.  Jim Burns provides the art, which includes a piece for each story, as well as a beautiful cover.  The stories are not the literal &quot;best&quot; of Frank Herbert, but they are enjoyable, certainly much better than other stuff coming out today.	2001-12-03
US	51717849	R1G271V5XVF4IC	034530067X	90748429	Quest for Fire	Books	3	23	23	N	N	Best to read as prep for the movie	The reputation of \\"Quest for Fire\\" in the U.S. surely comes from the movie rather than the book, as the film is regarded as a cult classic, yet there have been only two paperback publications here, to my knowledge. That said, be warned that the book is a very straightforward, bare-bones story... but it's also entertaining, in a simple way. The story deals with the adventures of a trio of neanderthals searching for a source of fire for their tribe after theirs is extinguished. The story gives fairly simplistic descriptions of their encounters with a wide variety of strange individuals and creatures. It almost reads like Hemmingway. You won't get in-depth portrayals of action, emotion, or grandeur, just a basic story, I guess much like Naoh or the others would tell it in their own language. It's a quick read (assuming you can find it used), so afterwards, be sure to rent the movie. You'll see how the story was modified and expanded on the screen, bringing much more significance to the finale.	2001-11-20
US	51717849	R1263B7M6XBML2	0785107584	624095595	Thor Visionaries - Walt Simonson, Vol. 1 (v. 1, Bk. 1)	Books	2	30	34	N	N	thumbs up for story &amp; art, thumbs down for collection	When this book was announced, you could feel the excitement in comic shops everywhere.  Finally, Walter Simonson's classic run could be enjoyed in all its glory!  I grew up with these stories, and there has never been a doubt in my mind that Simonson is the only person, after Lee and Kirby, who should be allowed to touch the god of thunder.  Simonson has a true love for the characters, as well as their Norse mythology roots, and it is this love that made his run the best ever on Thor.  He started the whole thing off with an unprecedented shake-up in the form of Beta Ray Bill, and the whole thing amazingly got better and better after that.  This collection, however, does not give Simonson's work the treatment it deserves.  In short, the book did not turn out well.  The printing quality varies wildly, giving crystal clear story pages, but blurred issue covers.  What happened?  Even worse is that 2 pages are printed in reverse order!  Now maybe some can forgive it, but when presenting exceptional work such as this, especially at this price, misprints are unacceptable.  So, be warned - it's a poor presentation of quality work, and Marvel should be flogged for dumping this this on the fans who have been patiently waiting for this overdue collection.  Marvel had better get its act together on any subsequent volumes.	2001-11-17
US	51717849	R3CENK6CHDD8TM	0374525765	645846206	War Fever	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Good companion to other collections	Ballard novels have never really impressed me - they seem too unfocused and convoluted.  I am a big fan, however, of his short stories - generally well-written, interestingly plotted, and providing just the right amount of alienation, making even a mundane situation seem like an otherworldly experience.  &quot;The Best Short Stories of...&quot; is a great place to start, with many fiction and sci-fi classics, a great representation of the short story form.  &quot;War Fever&quot; is a worthy follow-up. I don't know why it took me so long to try these stories, but they are definitely worth it.  Here, he doesn't really go out of his way to write in any established genre (sci-fi, horror), but his stories seem to drift that way ever so slightly, as if trying to just tread the edge of such.  He uses some interesting variations with form as well, seeing what the reader will accept as a story: a questionnaire?  An index?  Both are equally valid, and Ballard uses them to great effect.  Give this collection a try and see how well the stories hold up to his more classic works.  I think you'll find that his output from the mid to late '80s was just as good.	2001-07-18
US	51717849	R26TM00RWG6R4H	1855858908	708787962	The Art of Richard Powers (Paper Tiger)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Great artist, great book, great price!	Finally, a book dedicated solely to the works of the late Richard Powers... a dream come true.  I was tired of always seeing him presented as one of many entries in books of sci-fi artists, shoved between others who were obviously not as talented as he.  This is a true deal.... page after page of his beautiful/haunting/otherworldly art (yes, all 3 adjectives, and more, exist in each painting!).  The reproductions are of a very high quality and clarity, some taking up 2 pages, allowing you to see the textures within the images.  The text gives some very good insight on Powers' inspirations and personality, with some very funny stories.  My only objections are - 1.  There are a number of works produced in a fairly small format (4\\" x 4\\" or less) , and I would've gladly paid more if the publisher had enlarged them and expanded the page count.  2.  No photos of Powers at work, just two self-portraits.  3.  The text tends to ramble a bit, especially the first chapter, and I would have loved to see more art in place of it.	2001-06-21
US	51717849	R13MEADMVD8E8E	1563896532	130609660	Kurt Busiek's Astro City: The Tarnished Angel	Books	2	3	8	N	N	Wha' happen?	Kurt Busiek's Astro City is normally the gold standard for superhero comics these days.  The earlier stories, collected into Life in the Big City, Confessions, and Family Album, are wonderful works that serve to break the stereotypical superhero mold, presenting larger-than-life heroes (and villains) as having feelings and concerns with which the average person can identify.  Even more, Busiek accomplished this in a framework that turned the stereotypical superhero story on its side, taking standard and tired comic book plots in directions you wouldn't think possible.  It's hard to say what happened with this latest collection, &quot;Tarnished Angel&quot;.  Maybe Busiek was getting tired of Astro City, or maybe he had his mind on more high-profile projects like the Avengers.  It suffices to say that &quot;Tarnished Angel&quot; is a significant drop in quality for the Astro City series.<br />The story starts off in a very promising manner, actually.  The villain Steeljack is released from a prison stretch with the intent of staying clean.  Already we're introduced to unfamiliar comic territory, as we are presented with a villain who actually stays in prison, reflects on his wrongs, and does his time, instead of staging a grandiose escape in order to get revenge on the hero who put him there.  Leave it to Busiek to write about what it's like to be a super-villain on parole!  This alone makes for a fascinating story, and Steeljack probably would have been better off if we were just left with his day-to-day life on the outside.  Unfortunately, the story continues by putting him in the role of a reluctant investigator for a series of murders in his old neighborhood.  The following stories do nothing to develop his character; instead they take us  on a tour of the Astro City universe and its history, while at the same time leading up to a conclusion that is as predictable as the old standby storylines that Astro City is normally lauded for expanding.  The peripheral characters are nowhere near as intriguing as in previous collections, and the biggest evidence of this is the mid-story interruption with the trite tale of The Mock Turtle, a horribly conceived bit that has no place here, other than to serve as an extremely weak link.<br />The art for this collection is seriously lacking, as well.  Brent Anderson is a great artist, and he does an amazing job with detailing Steeljack's metal skin and capturing the &quot;Mitchum&quot; look, but it appears that the other characters and scenery suffer from a lack of detail.  The art in general is very quick and sketchy, and not up to par with previous material.  The most entertaining part of this collection for me was the sketchbook and cover gallery, showcasing Alex Ross' and Brent Anderson's designs... always a high point of these books, but for this one, it was the only high point.  I'm keeping this one for completeness, but I don't have to like it.racters are nowhere near as intriguing as in previous collections, and the biggest evidence of this is the mid-story interruption with the trite tale of The Mock Turtle, a horribly conceived bit that has no place here, other than to serve as an extremely weak link.  <br />The art for this collection is seriously lacking, as well.  Brent Anderson is a great artist, and he does an amazing job with detailing Steeljack's metal skin and capturing the &quot;Mitchum&quot; look, but it appears that the other characters and scenery suffer from a lack of detail.  The art in general is very quick and sketchy, and not up to par with previous material.  The most entertaining part of this collection for me was the sketchbook and cover gallery, showcasing Alex Ross' and Brent Anderson's designs... always a high point of these books, but for this one, it was the only high point.  I'm keeping this one for completeness, but I don't have to like it.	2001-06-04
US	51717849	R26N9EO5EVMOOP	0553293354	834333861	Foundation	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Finally got to it...	It's taken me quite a while to get around to reading this one, and I hesitate to review the first book of a trilogy when I haven't completed all 3 books, but I figured I'd better get this one in while I can, as it may take me another 10 years to finish the series.<br />I'm surprised that it took me this long to finally read &quot;Foundation&quot; by Isaac Asimov, but I can say that I'm glad I did.  Actually, I didn't have high hopes going into it, as I am not a big fan of Asimov's writing.  While his technical approach is always entertaining, he tends to become very stilted and ham-fisted when it comes to characterization.  It was this quality that turned me off of &quot;I Robot&quot; and almost got me to give him up completely; however, seeing as the Foundation trilogy is regarded as a classic of the genre, I had to give it a shot.<br />As everyone has said over and over (and I'll do it, too), the Foundation trilogy is a futuristic parallel of the fall of the Roman Empire and the following Dark Ages.  Hari Seldon, father of Psychohistory, sees the writing on the wall and establishes the Foundation in order to buffer the fall of civilization and technology.  The first book of the series, &quot;Foundation&quot;, does a good job of setting the stage for what is to come.  The book is told in 5 parts, each one focusing on a different character or time period in the early history of the Galactic Empire's fall.  Surprising to me, Asimov actually does a fairly good job with his characterization.  There's very little melodrama, and the story is evenly paced, holding up pretty well for a tale begun in 1941.  The only complaints I have with the story are that the main characters always seem to be overly confident in themselves, as if they are holding all the cards and can easily handle any adversity while blindfolded (presenting a tense situation fails if the protagonist has no concern or doubt for how things will be resolved).  Also, as the different parts of the story skip a hundred years here, 30 years there, etc., it may take some imagination on the reader's part to develop a &quot;big picture&quot; of what the Empire is really going through.  These are minor issues, however, and should not detract from enjoying the book.<br />One last observation - I have noticed that Hari Seldon appears to be getting younger with each new printing of this book.  My copy of &quot;Foundation&quot; from the early '80s, with cover art by Darrell Sweet, shows a decrepit, bent, wizened Seldon (as I feel he should look).  The next cover, by Michael Whelan from the early '90s, shows a more healthy and happy Seldon.  The cover of the latest edition, shown on this page, features a Seldon who looks like he's about to jump out of his wheelchair and punch you out.  You have to love that artistic license...a hundred years here, 30 years there, etc., it may take some imagination on the reader's part to develop a &quot;big picture&quot; of what the Empire is really going through.  These are minor issues, however, and should not detract from enjoying the book.<br />One last observation - I have noticed that Hari Seldon appears to be getting younger with each new printing of this book.  My copy of &quot;Foundation&quot; from the early '80s, with cover art by Darrell Sweet, shows a decrepit, bent, wizened Seldon (as I feel he should look).  The next cover, by Michael Whelan from the early '90s, shows a more healthy and happy Seldon.  The cover of the latest edition, shown on this page, features a Seldon who looks like he's about to jump out of his wheelchair and punch you out.  You have to love that artistic license...	2001-05-01
US	51717849	R3AZBXP5A62TSR	0441533825	974124233	Mirrorshades: The Cyberpunk Anthology	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Pretty good collection	This is a collection of short stories by authors associated with the &quot;cyberpunk movement&quot; within the science fiction field.  I enjoyed the book overall, but I wouldn't necessarily call this a representation of cyberpunk.  In fact, three of the stories to me (and more among others) absolutely do not qualify as such, and two of them actually seem to be more rooted in the fantasy field than anything else.  However, it's a good read, definitely worth it for the stories by Willam Gibson, both solo and collaborative.  Interestingly, my favorite was &quot;Petra&quot; by Greg Bear, which is one of the fantasies I referred to: a very original idea and superbly written.<br />One final thing: if someone understands &quot;Tales of Houdini&quot;, please contact me and explain.  I just don't get it!	2001-03-17
US	51717849	R4UFOUK64FNT7	1582401748	763933901	Torso	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Not bad, not bad at all	I'm paying more and more attention to BMB lately, and I like what I see.  This was initially due to the release of the Powers trade collection, and now we get Torso, one of Bendis'  earlier works, and just as good.<br />This is a great dramatized account of a real event.  Elliot Ness, fresh off of the Al Capone/Untouchables episode, has relocated to Cleveland, Ohio and becomes involved in the first serial killer case in the US.  Bendis uses some great narrative and visual effects in this story, including skewed page layouts and story panels that shuffle hither and yon.  Large panels and fadeouts between chapters give it a very cinematic feel.  The black and white artwork is very simple and straightforward, incorporating photographs for scenery at times.  Bendis also has a knack for writing extremely realistic dialogue.  In fact, I can say that the dialogue is realistic almost to a fault.  Put it this way: have you ever read a court transcript, with all the &quot;ers&quot;, &quot;ahs&quot;, and repeated words, and wondered &quot;geez, do people actually talk like that?  How does anything get said?&quot;  Sure enough, that's what Bendis uses here, and while it does give the story a more realistic feel, it can get a bit tedious at times.  Don't get me wrong, though: the story flows very well, getting 2 thumbs up for pacing.  The ending may or may not be a letdown, depending on how much you expect from this, but overall, it's an enjoyable read.<br />One thing that could have helped this book out, purely from the historical perspective, is more info on the case in the appendix.  I'd like to have a better handle on who's who and what's what.  But as it is, you get some brief writeups and crime photos, pretty interesting in their own right.	2001-02-12
US	51717849	RFUET5SSF2R3J	078510755X	921332698	Earth X (Earth X 1)	Books	3	16	29	N	Y	Not as impressive as I'd heard	Surely, many readers were drawn in by the fact that this series was conceived and designed by Alex Ross, but his golden touch does not extend to the story.  Jim Krueger's plot is so unfocused and meandering, it's hard to zero in on what's really going on.  The very end of the book is actually pretty good, and the revelation about the true purpose of the Earth and its heroes is very imaginative, but the build-up could have been more direct.  The first 8 parts of the story were quite irritating, as they consisted of not much more than condescending banter between Uatu and X-51, the narrators, with abrupt clips of the future players in the Marvel Universe.  It seems like the objective is not to tell a story, but to squeeze as many Marvel characters into the book as possible.  Of course, it was nice to see so much art by John Paul Leon, but it got to where I was concentrating more on the art and less on the story.  Surely it wasn't necessary to draw this series out over 12 issues to make the final point!  And what's up with the chapter appendices?  If an author has to provide 3-4 pages of text at the end of each chapter to explain what it was you just read, something is wrong.  An overblown and half-baked project, but I will give it 3 stars (not a passing grade, mind you) for the art/design, as well as the development of certain characters (namely, Tony Stark and Reed Richards.  Captain America, who is actually a major player in the story, is just as cardboard here as he's always been).	2001-01-15
US	51717849	R84YWZ45KTVT4	1893131041	671250767	The Collected Beowulf	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Very pleased with this	I missed the individual issues of this story at my local comic shop, but the collected edition is now available.  This is a spectacular comic version of the folk hero epic Beowulf (certainly not the first - it was adapted by First Comics in the late 80s, I believe, but this one is much better).  Gareth Hinds does a great job with the story and artwork.  He has chosen to forgo chopping the poem into word ballons and dialogue, opting instead to present actual lines from the poem on the pages, mixed in with the art.  It seems to lend this adaptation more weight.  Now, let's talk about the incredible graphic style:  the original series was presented in 3 issues, each one concentrating on one of Beowulf's adventures (Grendel, the Sea Hag, and the Dragon).  Each part is done in a different art medium.  &quot;Grendel&quot; is heavy pen &amp; ink with color, &quot;Sea Hag&quot; is painted on wood, and &quot;Dragon&quot; looks like fine lines and light watercolor accents.  Add some other interesting visual touches, such as constellation charts for the night sky and howls appearing as winding parchment, and you have a true feast for the eyes.  Gareth Hinds is truly talented.  Give this book a try.	2001-01-10
US	51717849	R33PJ7X72G4KUG	0871353091	902264744	Elektra: Assassin (Marvel's Finest)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Finally back in print!	Over the past 3 years or so, Marvel seems have remembered that it has older fans who remember its glory days, when all of their characters got a fair shake.  If the racks are going to be flooded with a hundred copies of the &quot;Age of X-ecution X-Tinction&quot; trade paperback, the least Marvel could do is reprint something that appeals to more discriminating readers.  This book is a prime example.<br />ELEKTRA: ASSASSIN is one of those wonderful moments in comics where the writer and artist, each being at the top of their game, are also completely in tune with each other.  Miller's story is by no means straightforward, and if you can read this once and feel that you &quot;got it&quot;, you probably really didn't &quot;get it&quot;.  With every read, I see new messages hidden in the story, and that, to me, means a worthwhile purchase.  His definition of the characters is great, from a boorish Agent Garret to a faker-than-fake presidential candidate.  The story features many  aspects and abilities of Elektra that hadn't been previously covered in other comics.<br />Sienkiewicz's artwork for this story is amazing.  He can render some beautiful and technically accurate human forms, but to do that throughout the whole book wouldn't be any fun.  Here, he uses a mixed media showcase, incorporating a variety of styles  for his interpretations of characters and their moods: some characters are sharply defined, others are photo or paper paste-ups, some just smears of paint.  Seeing as this series was originally released in the mid-80s, it can be seen how this work might have influenced such diverse artists as Dave McKean, Simon Bisley, and yes, even Rob Liefield (check out Nick Fury and his big gun).<br />This story fits in well with the Elektra stories of the past.  Ignore her recent revival in Daredevil, and you'll be okay.	2001-01-05
US	51717849	RYMDFX1MRB3RB	1565114272	481105340	Beowulf	Books	4	29	32	N	N	The CD is even better	My career is as far removed from classical literature as you can get, but boy do I love epic poems.  I've read multiple versions of Beowulf (including 2 comic adaptations), and Heaney's version is by far the most accessible.  The man has a true command of English, and he manages to present the poem in more straightforward language without a feeling of talking down to the reader.<br />That said, if you want a real treat, check out the audio version of Beowulf.  Heaney's translation is good enough on page, but to hear him read it is marvelous.  It makes you feel like you're sitting around a campfire, listening to an elder spin some wild yarn.  Be warned, however: even though this Amazon page says &quot;UNABRIDGED&quot;, the audio versions are really unabridged SELECTIONS.  You don't get the full text of the poem, but you get  the necessary parts - enough to make it enjoyable.	2000-12-11
US	51717849	R2AP6H65EZ6KPB	078510576X	402846974	Squadron Supreme	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Now I get it	When this series was originally released, I didn't give it much attention and wrote it off in 4 issues.  I saw it as a pale parody of the Justice League of America, and I only focused on my theory that Marvel was trying to copy DC's greatest heroes.  After reading Waid and Ross' Kingdom Come years later and hearing the references to Mark Gruenwald's Squadron Supreme, however, it all came together.  I had to buy the collected edition.<br />Reading the Squadron Supreme storyline all at once, it's amazing that this was a sleeper.  It may have been due to several factors, ones which led me to give this book 4 stars: the varying quality of the art (all of it good, but some much better), the cheesy Stan Lee-styled dialogue (sometimes hilariously so), or the outrageous melodrama (too many upstanding heroes wearing their emotions on their sleeves).  Whatever the case, the overall storyline is exceptional, and Mark Gruenwald deserves much more attention for this story than he gets.  There are WAY too many similarities between SS and KC, and I can't continue to give KC the fanatical praise I once did - Gruenwald did it first.<br />This is a fairly realistic treatment of a pseudo-JLA, showing what might happen to the world if a group with that kind of power existed.  For all the potential that the real JLA has, they're held back by history, popular culture, and the editor's fear of alienating fans.  Squadron Supreme has no such boundaries, and the result is a real treat.  Don't waste your time reading (or more appropriately &quot;looking at&quot;) The Authority.  This is the way to go.	2000-11-09
US	51717849	RKWK0O7PJIGQC	0375703756	305236339	Selected Stories	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Highly recommended from a &quot;so-so&quot; fan	I've never enjoyed Sturgeon's novels, but his short stories are another matter.  It's about time that his best were collected again, this time around by Vintage Press, and they do a great job.  Actually, it's a shame that this is a more expensive trade format, but this is happening more and more with the truly meaningful sci-fi, while the latest waves of absolute crap clutter the mass-market shelves.  Anyway, every story in this collection evokes a &quot;whoa!&quot; upon completion, and it's definitely a good investment for someone who enjoys more meat in their reading.<br />This book includes Thunder &amp; Roses; The Golden Helix; Mr. Costello, Hero; Bianca's Hands; The Skills of Xanadu; Killdozer!; Bright Segment; The Sex Opposite; The Widget, The Wadget, &amp; Boff; It; A Way of Thinking; The Man Who Lost The Sea; and Slow Sculpture.  If you want to read some truly remarkable stories, make this your next purchase.	2000-11-05
US	51717849	R1G6SZA6LH1431	0943151074	881407737	Fun With Milk & Cheese	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Booze and violence	This is one of the funniest comics around today (another being DORK, also by M&amp;C creator Evan Dorkin).  Why is it funny?  Because Milk and Cheese get away with something we all wish we could get away with: getting liquored up and beating the crap out of annoying people.  That's all this comic is, but then that's all it needs to be.  Well, maybe that, and a dash of talk-show viewing, but even to do that, they have to rend, pummel, lacerate, and bludgeon anyone who gets in their way.  This is pure mayhem, a 2-man riot.<br />Hilarious dialogue only adds to the mayhem.  It's apparent that M&amp;C take their mission, to destroy all idiots, very seriously.  The question is: how can Evan Dorkin take essentially the same storyline and make it entertaining over and over again?  Believe me, he does it VERY well, and the little comments and asides add immeasurably to the fun.  I would prefer to give this 9 of 10, so please forgive the 4.<br />Now if only he'd start collecting DORK in trade editions.  I need more!	2000-10-24
US	51717849	R2QPQFROB07D4I	0312870493	29830141	To Reign in Hell: A Novel	Books	2	13	22	N	N	Shades of Three's Company	Well, we all know about the revolt in Heaven, but what's the &quot;real&quot; story?  Steven Brust provides you with the answer by depositing the characters in a fantasy setting, sort of a redefined Heaven.  You don't get any winged angels with halos - this is more of a Middle-Earth setting.  It's certainly an interesting concept, but Brust takes an easy way out.<br />To explain the title of my review, think back to how most &quot;Three's Company&quot; episodes built a plot... a character would misinterpret something (overhear a fraction of a conversation or misunderstand somone's intentions), the character would act on their misinterpretation, and wackiness ensues through more incidents of misinterpretation and a major lack of communication.<br />That's what this book is - a bunch of zany misunderstandings and incidents of bad timing between angels that serve to destroy the order of heaven.  I had hopes that Brust could provide a well-formulated reasoning for the angels' rebellion, but it didn't happen.  Instead, I'm treated to a divine sitcom.<br />The story attempts to present Satan as justified in his leading the revolt, due to multiple factors.  If Brust wishes to clean up Satan's image and paint him as a victim of another's arrogance, instead of a troublemaker, then fine.  But then to have ANOTHER bad angel skulking in the background, causing all the problems???  What does this solve?  To show Satan as innocent instead of ambitious, and then stick the ambitious Abdiel into the story to spark the plot, doesn't make sense.<br />This flimsy plot really irritates me, because Brust does a superb job of characterization and setting, and I hate to see these outstanding bits ruined by a bad story.	2000-10-15
US	51717849	R1BTNXM0YP6PSI	0743407210	515832018	The Sentinel	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Wonderful selection of well-written tales	The most amazing thing about these stories is that they were written around the 50s, but it sure doesn't seem so.  Clarke is a scientist, to be sure, but he doesn't overwhelm you with it.  I think that's especially admirable since he could have easily fallen back on the science as a crutch and let this guide his stories.  Instead, he spends equal time working on characterization, and the stories are better for it.  His characters are supplied with quirks and attitudes which we can all relate to, even if you're not the captain of a space freighter or an envoy to a mysterious alien race.<br />This collection was actually released about 15 years ago, as I recall.  It was definitely due for a reprint, as it was in my mind an instant classic... a perfect combination of carefully-selected stories, informative intros, and beautiful illustrations by Lebbeus Woods.  Cheers to iBooks!	2000-10-05
US	51717849	R65MS8RLJ9BQC	0785107533	813486068	The Inhumans	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Finally raising the bar	At long last, the Inhumans get the star treatment they deserve, and by doing this, Paul Jenkins and Jae Lee set a standard that will more than likely be ignored by other Marvel titles... but anyway, it's a very well-written story with beautiful art.  Jenkins approached this storyline in a rare fashion (for these days), for while the 12 issues composed one complete suspenseful story, every issue could stand on its own.  Also, he provides the Inhumans with personalities, making them seem much more human than the actual humans they reluctantly have to deal with.  Jae Lee's artwork has progressed tremendously since his time on Namor, Hellshock, etc., and his interpretation of the group is amazing.  His work is very detailed, but contains a large amount of shadow, giving the story a sense of mystery.  The Inhumans haven't been given such care since the birth of Crystal's child in Fantastic Four, and that was a looooong time ago.<br />This is probably one of the best books Marvel has put out in the last 10 years, don't pass it by.	2000-09-29
US	51717849	RLMOHGH7SGCPV	0590425994	933863174	The Adventures Of Ulysses	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Very straightforward presentation	This book doesn't mess around.  There is a very brief prologue summarizing the role Ulysses (Odysseus) played in the fall of Troy (the Iliad), but  then it starts full-steam with the tales of the Odyssey.  It's intended for  younger readers, but I enjoyed it immensely.  It was fun to relearn the  Odyssey after 20 or so years.  The stories are not told in a high literary  form; instead, the voice used by Evslin sounds more like listening to your  grandfather spin a tale, but it works.  Yes, the violence and death are  included.  The illustrations heading each chapter are particularly  interesting, very psychedelic, and appropriate considering that this was  first published in 1969.	2000-08-02
US	51717849	R1VDHF7FPJ8V8P	0785107185	513297449	The `Nam (Marvel's Finest)	Books	2	21	21	N	N	Good stories, but not a good collection	I loved reading THE 'NAM comics in high school.  A great series on an individual's experiences in the Vietnam war, and the story is told in real-time, so you can follow Ed Marks through his tour of duty in 12  issues.  Writer Doug Murray is a vet, so he knows his subject.  Artist  Michael Golden did a fantastic job, almost cartoony, but with much realism  and focus on the technical aspects.<br />Those 12 issues were a great  story-arc and would have been perfect for this collection; however, here  Marvel Comics only includes the first FOUR issues, resulting in a severely  incomplete story... and at $14.95 for the book, four stories is a rip-off.  Also, the pages were not recolored for this collection, using the same  horrible &quot;dot-tones&quot; as you see in the Sunday funnies.<br />The  cover touts the logo &quot;Marvel's Finest&quot;, but this collection  doesn't make the point.	2000-07-10
US	51717849	RZXUOPM71BK80	0156002442	162323465	Bible Stories for Adults	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Quality collection of short stories	After reading this book, I place James Morrow in the same spot I hold for Joe Haldeman: favorite short-story writer.  Simply put, the stories contained in this book are EXCELLENT!  Morrow has a true economy of  writing - he says so much with very few words, and his subject matter is  very well chosen, most of the time taking a fresh look at historical events  or Biblical stories.<br />I guess the majority of the stories vaguely qualify  as science fiction, but each one has a profound message under its slight  sci-fi trappings.  Two definite stand-outs are &quot;The Deluge&quot;,  showing how evil remained in the world after the great flood (and making  some nasty implications for the lineage of the human race), and &quot;Arms  and the Woman&quot;, a hilarious yet totally relevant retelling of the  Trojan War from Helen's perspective.  These two stories alone are worth the  price of the book, but there's many more gems included.  I'm still confused  about the story concerning Job, but that's a minor detail; the others more  than make up for it.	2000-06-21
US	51717849	R23IIT5MOB0QZS	1563896613	240046168	Authority, The: Relentless	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Revised review - A really bad "beginning"	I was amazed by Warren Ellis' wonderfully-realized Planetary series.  I learned afterwards that he was responsible for the Authority series as well, so I bought this trade paperback to check it out, hoping that I could get in on the ground level. Big mistake!  Be warned that the  story of The Authority does not begin with issue #1.  You need to read  Ellis' Stormwatch series in order to understand who the characters are and why they are in their present situation.  Even then, Stormwatch doesn't provide enough information on the characters to truly prepare you for what you will experience with The Authority.  In summary, there is no real beginning for this series, nowhere, nohow!<br />Grant Morrison's introduction leads you to believe that The Authority is an  amazingly original, even revolutionary series, based on its perspective of  a superhero team that knows what's best for the world.  I wanted to believe  it, really, but it's just not the case.  There have been many other superteams who impose their wills on the public and do as they wish... from Squadron Supreme to Kingdom Come to Miracleman, this is well-tread territory.  Of course, they didn't have the gratuitous blood, violence, and T&A that The Authority has, so I guess that's what's so \\"groundbreaking\\" (well maybe Miracleman, though certainly not gratuitous).<br />The stories serve mainly to set up situations which the heroes can address in their signature manner: death and wide-scale mayhem.  The focus is on the action, definitely  not character development.  There's about 2 written pages worth of plot in  the storyline, but don't worry - so many of the pages are only one or two  panels with little dialogue.  You won't notice it until you finish the book  in about 30 minutes.  Splash-pages galore in this book!  Also, the villains are laughable, as they are cut from the same basic cloth as the Silver Age Doctor Doom or Magneto.  Of course, those particular interpretations of the Marvel villains never engaged in mass-murder, so there's the only difference.<br />So in the end, what is so  amazing and original about this story?  Not much, really.  The concept of  the super-team imposing its will for the good of the world is not new.  Numerous others have done it much better.  I can say, however, that upon reading subsequent trade collections of The Authority, I do like the team a bit more.  Some characters finally develop a personality, plots finally appear and become much more interesting, and there is some fun poked at various major comic heroes (such as the Avengers in Volume 2 - excellent).  All in all, this series is enjoyable over the course of the 4 Authority trades, 4 Stormwatch trades, and Jenny Sparks collection, but you must keep in mind that it takes all 9 of those books to even approach the depth of just 1 Watchmen or Kindgom Come collection.  Not worth the money, in my opinion.ed in mass-murder, so there's the only difference.   <br />So in the end, what is so  amazing and original about this story?  Not much, really.  The concept of  the super-team imposing its will for the good of the world is not new.   Numerous others have done it much better.  I can say, however, that upon reading subsequent trade collections of The Authority, I do like the team a bit more.  Some characters finally develop a personality, plots finally appear and become much more interesting, and there is some fun poked at various major comic heroes (such as the Avengers in Volume 2 - excellent).  All in all, this series is enjoyable over the course of the 4 Authority trades, 4 Stormwatch trades, and Jenny Sparks collection, but you must keep in mind that it takes all 9 of those books to even approach the depth of just 1 Watchmen or Kindgom Come collection.  Not worth the money, in my opinion.	2000-06-14
US	51717849	R3UM4T3LFWN43W	0810928817	185380383	Discoveries: North Pole, South Pole (DISCOVERIES (ABRAMS))	Books	2	13	14	N	N	many problems	Overall, an informative book on the race for the poles.  Just be sure you know a bit about the subject before you read this.<br />This book is loaded with illustrations and photos, covering all periods of polar exploration.  Unfortunately, maps aren't given the same treatment.  Dozens upon dozens of  voyages are covered in the text, but when it comes to showing the paths  these explorers took, you are stuck with two maps, one for each pole, with  lines, dashes, arrows, and dates all thrown together.  Many of the  explorers aren't even represented on the maps at all.  It would be nice to  have the maps broken up more, grouping the earliest voyages, the ones that  almost crossed the Circles, etc.<br />Also, the format of the chapters could  use some cleaning up and more chronological order.  The text rapidly darts  from one subject to another, and jumping forward and backward in the text  was often required.  Startling to me was the fact that a discussion of  Antarctica's environment, geography, etc, is presented in the BACK of the  book!  Sure, this book is on the explorers, but it would be nice to let the  reader know early on exactly what the explorers were up against and why  they were limited in how far they could go.<br />My final problem with this  book, and probably the largest, is its emphasis on Scott's Antarctic  expedition, romanticizing it like so many other texts (and history in  general) have done.  Even though Amundsen was first, he always gets  overshadowed by Scott's disaster.  More emphasis should be put on  Amundsen's expedition, which succeeded due to experience and planning,  instead of relying on luck and &quot;the human spirit&quot;.<br />The  &quot;Discoveries Series&quot; appears to be designed for first-time  readers, but I couldn't recommend this book to one.	2000-06-11
US	51717849	R1MZ5R0F380SYW	0446393657	442915949	Enemy Ace: War Idyll	Books	5	18	19	N	N	It's nice to see Enemy Ace get some respect	The DC Universe contains thousands of quality characters.  Unfortunately, only a small fraction are used to even half of their potential.  Every so often, an author will dust off one of these forgotten gems and make readers  take notice, such as George Pratt did with Hans von Hammer, the Enemy Ace,  in this book.  A true graphic novel, not a trade collection, this story is  a beautiful piece of work.  It's an interesting exploration of what makes a  soldier, told in a series of flashbacks brought on through an aged Hammer's  interview by a Vietnam vet.<br />Actually, I would rather give it 9 of 10  stars, due to the art.  Pratt's painted pages are great, but they're not  very detailed, so it's hard to decipher exactly what's occurring at times.  Still, it's a minor problem.  DC should put it back in print.	2000-06-01
US	51717849	RKJYBV4J9825N	0312143699	832798867	Migraine Boy: Fair-Weather Friends	Books	5	2	5	N	N	the best headache you'll ever have	This comic strip was brought to my attention via REM's &quot;Monster&quot;, many years ago.  That horrible excuse for a CD was good for at least one thing!<br />The evil twin of Charlie Brown, Migraine Boy  never gets a break, but that doesn't stop him from taking his frustrations  out on all the neighborhood kids who bug him.  These strips have varying  styles of humor - alternately twisted, violent, morbid, one-liner, and  deadpan.  The art looks like it was drawn by someone actually suffering  from a migraine: very frantic scribbling, wavy lines... all the better to  convey the special atmosphere of this strip.  Give it a try!	2000-05-30
US	51717849	R2CGA7OBJWE9UC	1878574957	407989757	Marshal Law: Blood, Sweat, and Fears	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hilarious and irreverent	It's surprising that the Marshal Law books are out of print.  These stories are some of the best superhero parodies ever written.  Mills' hilarious writing and strong knowledge of comics history is almost  overshadowed by O'Neill's frantic and hyper-violent art.<br />Marshal Law...  the hero hunter... who hunts heroes.  This book collects various tales of  the Marshal wiping out parodies of Batman and the JSA, an attack of  &quot;Night of the Living Dead&quot;-style zombies, and a great combination  of the HUAC hearings &amp; &quot;Seduction of the Innocent&quot;.<br />Hopefully, Dark Horse will get back in the swing of things and realize  that comic fans shouldn't be without these stories.	2000-05-15
US	51717849	R2XWTD0M6YGJGE	1563893428	277739198	Batman: The Dark Knight Returns	Books	5	5	6	N	N	I shouldn't even have to post a review	This is a true masterpiece that shows superhero comics can be socially relevant.  I think back to when the original 4 issues were released, and I thought &quot;An OLD Batman, still duking it out?  Please!&quot;  Then I  bought the leatherbound &quot;Frank Miller's Batman&quot;, at a remainder  price no less, and was floored.  I know that this story is considered an  Elseworlds tale, but I like to think that this is how Batman will actually  wrap it up.  I've been reading comics for 25 years, and I get tired of the  same heroes having the same adventures, never aging, not changing with the  times, and so on.  The interesting thing is that this story reflects so  many attitudes of the '80s, but it's not dated by any means.  Many people  gripe these days about how comics have been soured by the grim and gritty,  &quot;Goetterdaemmerung&quot; trend (Dark Knight, Watchmen, The Golden  Age), but I think that more heroes would benefit from this kind of  treatment.  I like to know where they are going, for a change, and it  shouldn't always be a happy ending.	2000-05-15
US	51717849	R164IKT9TMOIZI	1563891956	111266051	The Tarantula (Sandman Mystery Theater, Book 1)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The &quot;other&quot; Sandman, but just as good!	Sure, Neil Gaiman's Sandman gets all the praise, but I prefer Matt Wagner's version of the Golden Age Sandman, which is modified to tie in loosely with Gaiman's stories.  This wonderful series ended several years ago, and DC/Vertigo is hesitant to collect the story arcs, for some unknown  reason.  Thankfully, they at least released &quot;The Tarantula&quot;,  issues 1-4, for our reading and viewing pleasure.  This book adequately  sets up the series, fleshing out Wesley Dodds and the supporting characters  as has never been done before.  Guy Davis' artwork is beautiful,  understated, and is the perfect match for Wagner's story.  Don't let the  fact that this series is &quot;noirish&quot; keep you away (this is no  paper-thin Sin City).  The story has depth and feeling, and enough plot to  warrant multiple reads.	2000-04-27
US	51717849	R16L1KP5PG70M	1563896486	44824436	Planetary VOL 01: All Over the World and Other Stories	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Fun read	It took a while for me to work up the courage to try this series, and I'm glad I finally got to it.<br />Any fan of the history of comics (and related genres) should check this book out.  A trio of investigators looks into  mysterious events which have been occuring throughout the 20th century but  gone unnoticed by the general public.  What the trio uncovers may strike  comic fans as vaguely familiar: a bronze-skinned 1940s adventurer who  tackles unspeakable horrors, giant radioactive monsters battling off the  Japanese coast, 4 astronauts doused with cosmic radiation become  superhumans, etc, etc.  The stories poke more than just a little fun at the  comics of yesteryear, trying to give a more realistic version of what might  have happened had our favorite heroes actually existed.<br />The only problems  I have with the book are: first, while the basic plots are excellent, the  dialogue isn't well-written.  I had the feeling that Ellis wasn't getting  everything across to the reader that he intended to say.  Second, these  stories are supposed to present superhumans (or the supernatural) as  mysterious and shady, but it doesn't really work when the investigators  themselves are superhumans.	2000-04-09
US	51717849	R368FGL0ULRL3M	0871354918	113112823	Silver Surfer: Parable	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Finally back in print	Marvel has a real problem with keeping their best works in print.  They've been making progress over the past few years, however, and this is one of them.<br />Written by one of the &quot;founding fathers&quot; of the Marvel  Universe, Stan Lee used this book to make a return to one of his most  outstanding creations.  His Surfer tales of old had a style like none of  his others, capturing basic themes in stories of galactic scope, with more  than a hint of allegory and religious reference.  This story reads like one  of his classic tales.  The art is provided by Moebius, and the Surfer has  never looked better.  Moebius' fine-line work, detail, and soft colors  beautifully capture the mood of this story.  I wish he would turn his  attention to more work like this, but with the sorry writing in today's  American super-hero comics, I can't blame him for keeping a low profile.<br />Stories don't come along like this very often, so check it out.  It's in  a softcover printing, so it's affordable.  The only problem I have with the  story is some of the Surfer's dialogue, which sounds as if it were lifted  from fortune cookies or self-help books.	2000-03-27
US	51717849	RFELDVHUUCWAW	1563895676	987902768	The Kingdom	Books	2	12	13	N	N	Good and bad; the bad does it in	As single issues, the comics that make up The Kingdom&quot; were fairly good, some better than others.  As a collection, they don't work very well together.<br />The storytelling is very patchy.  The beginning gives a great  set-up: the creation of Gog, the birth of Superman and Wonder Woman's  child, the deaths of multiple Supermen, the appearance of the Linear Men,  and the reappearance of many supporting characters from Kingdom Come.  The  middle of the book, however, breaks the flow by setting aside this  storyline and focusing waaaaaaay too much on a select few supporting  characters, even one who wasn't IN Kingdom Come.  By the end of the book,  when the original storyline resumes, you'll be hard-put to still be  interested in what's happening, and the horrible art in the last chapter  was an insult to Jerry Ordway's and Ariel Olivetti's beautiful work in the  beginning.	2000-03-23
US	51717849	R1VXOCQRYGFA27	1563896052	609818339	Superman & Batman: Generations, An Imaginary Tale (Elseworlds)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Exceeded expectations	Wow.  The wait was worth it.  Originally published as a 4-issue series, DC did the right thing by collecting this in trade format.  &quot;Generations&quot; is a very enjoyable story which deals with Batman  and Superman in real-time: in other words, they were introduced in 1939 and  age accordingly over the next century.  So, instead of Bruce Wayne  continuously being Batman, as he has for over 60 years (through retcons,  Crisis, etc.), he ages, and the mantle is passed to others.  Superman has  to deal with a similar situation, for even if he doesn't age as a human  does, Clark Kent has to.  The best feature of the book is following these  two heroes throughout the 20th century, and seeing their secret identities  play a greater role in shaping their lives.  They behave more like normal  people.<br />It amazes me that John Byrne was able to cover a staggering  amount of material in just 4-issues, but he pulls it off very smoothly.  Also, the story is loaded with Golden/Silver-Age references, and each  decade manages to capture the atmosphere of what comics were like at that  time, so if you enjoyed the pre-Crisis versions of these heroes, this is  the book for you.	2000-03-16
US	51717849	R1T2GRPN2230A7	1569714029	38354145	300	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Miller shows he can still do it	I'd spent the last eight years or so ignoring Frank Miller, due to his insistence on beating \\"Sin City\\" to death.  I can think of no other instance where a creator has so strongly turned me off of his work.<br />When the \\"300\\" series was announced, I took notice, mostly out of shock.  I was amazed that he was turning his attentions to such a large project, and in color!  The result was a laudable piece of  work, and it's made better in this oversize hardcover, due to the fact that the pages are presented in their intended format: wide-angle spreads, some as panoramic as a movie.<br />Telling the story of the battle of Thermopylae is a BIG task, but considering he only had 6 issues, Miller does a serviceable job.  The story was a bit lacking in some spots, but overall, I  was impressed.  It's not a scholarly study - rather, a historical drama.<br />The Art... after seeing Miller do stark black and white with little  detail for so long, I was doubting if he'd be able to recapture the feel  present in so many of his classic works.  His art for this story has so much depth, and it's made more  powerful by Lynn Varley's coloring.<br />A nice book overall.	2000-03-13
US	51717849	R22BLV7VK0JMX5	0425045803	923561696	The Barbie Murders	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Good, but more variety would be nice	The stories in this collection are very enjoyable, and if you've read The Ophiuchi Hotline, some of them provide excellent background for that novel's characters and events, especially a great story featuring  Parameter-Solstice.  I would have liked more variety between the stories,  though.  They're all set in Varley's &quot;occupied Earth&quot; universe,  and while they have do have interesting plots, they contain the same themes  in the background: sexual ambiguity, body manipulation, etc.  I'd like to  see Varley move away from this general setting and try something  different.<br />I agree that this book should be put back in print, along with  Ophiuchi Hotline, Persistence of Vision, and a mass-market edition of  Millennium.  It's hard to understand why Varley's best work is either out  of print or in expensive trade editions, while his worst work (Steel Beach,  Titan) is still available.	2000-03-11
US	51717849	R2VDQP8I8EVJW7	0958578346	325728610	From Hell	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Moore does it again	This story is a masterpiece, and this collected edition is the only way to read it.  Even if you're like me and have never had much of an interest in the Whitechapel murders, I can't recommend this book highly enough.  Moore  thoroughly researches all of his stories, as evidenced by his strong body  of work over the past 20 years, and his inventiveness and attention to  detail extend to this one.  The thorough endnotes outline everything for  you, giving more depth and understanding to the plot.  Also, &quot;From  Hell&quot; is not intended to be gospel, and Moore makes it clear that he  has used fact, assumption, &amp; outright fabrication in order to craft  this story - and the endnotes let you know which is which.<br />Eddie  Campbell's dark sketchy art is perfect for this story.  It provides just  the right mood, although sometimes it's hard to interpret what is going on,  and many of the characters look a bit too similar.  Picking up all the  details in a few of the panels may take some time.<br />The last chapter, in  particular, is a brilliant way to wrap up the story, bringing it into the  present day, and the epilogue, &quot;Dance of the Gull Catchers&quot;,  offers a hilarious study of the Ripper phenonmenon.	2000-02-29
US	51717849	R2B4M8GBH1JVC0	1560973676	715456996	Barry Windsor-Smith: Opus (Vol. 1)	Books	2	19	25	N	N	I'll side with the negatives	Barry Windsor-Smith's artwork is in a class all its own - not to say that it's technically perfect, but he is definitely an original in the field of fantastic art.  It's art that he's good at, and it's art that his fans  should receive -<br />- which is why this book is such a disappointment.   Sure, it features his artwork, but you'd better be prepared for an  abundance of text detailing BWS's paranormal experiences and otherworldly  beliefs.  I guess if he published this himself, he can do whatever he  wants, but shame on him for taking his fans for granted like this.  I had  hoped to see art all over the inside of this book, with BRIEF accompanying  text on his methods, inspirations, etc.  Instead, I'm treated to a  narrative on a subject which, while it may have influenced his work, is far  too personal.  It comes across as obscure and alienating.<br />I'll complain  about the presentation of the artwork, too: I could have done a better job  arranging the layout of this book.  You don't center an image between two  pages when moving it to either side will enable the image to be viewed  completely.  Think about it!<br />In closing, if you must buy this book, just  look at the art.  Spare yourself the pain and skip the text.	2000-02-21
US	51717849	R3CB1PR60B62SW	0962384194	481968689	Tales of the black diamond	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Don't bother with this one...	Of all the Corben material I've read (and I've read a lot), this is the one I like the least.  It's a collection of stories which are connected by a mysterious artifact, &quot;the Black Diamond&quot;.  The art is black and  white, and the stories are as thin as the paper they're printed on.  Corben  is responsible for some of the best fantasy comics around, but this isn't  one of them.	2000-02-09
US	51717849	R2A56KWTQJC3HG	0874160073	843086353	Werewolf	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Deserves to be reprinted!	This is one of my favorite Corben books.  The stories are very enjoyable, all dealing with werewolves (go figure).  The art on the majority of the stories is excellent, but one or two don't compare with the rest.  The  highlight, &quot;Roda and the Wolf&quot;, is a beautifully-illustrated  story which retells the Little Red Riding Hood tale, but all in a made-up  language which works very well, nonetheless.  Plus, it's a sturdy hardcover  with glossy color covers and no jacket.  The cover image is a great piece  of work.	2000-02-09
US	51717849	RDXJS1HX07IL6	0374524122	603875347	Crash: A Novel	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Good idea, but not worth it	The premise of this book really interested me, but upon finishing it, I wished I had used my time for something else.  It's a shame, because the first chapter does a good job of grabbing the reader's attention and  setting up the book.  Once again, however, I find that a full-length novel  by Ballard has only enough plot for a short story.  The whole car  crash-eroticism idea is an intriguing one, but it can't substitute for a  storyline.  Ballard goes into overkill, beating the reader over the head  with all the minute erotic aspects of car crashes; meanwhile, the plot  becomes less and less important, and the characters remain stagnant.  I  would almost say that this book is a parody of a sex-thriller, but after  reading &quot;Crash&quot;, I think that the other has more merit.<br />*Also,  I found Ballard's use of smells in this book laughable.  The main character  must have some Bloodhound in him.	2000-02-04
US	51717849	ROOPDEM88PY8O	0374520968	111337252	The Crystal World	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Not for a new reader, but...	I enjoyed this book, but I think it could have been told better as a short story or novella.  The basic plot is good, and the implications for the fate of the universe really got me going, but the plot tends to drag, and  the characters go in circles, not accomplishing much.  Mind you, I think  it's pretty apparent from the writing that this was intended: fairly thin  characters serving to introduce the reader to an interesting situation (and  not even explaining it, necessarily).  Overall, however, I don't think that  this style would appeal to first-time readers, and I can understand why  some don't get into his works.	2000-01-27
US	51717849	R5E7UY1ZB8GMI	0871357380	500494196	Elektra Lives Again	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Pretty good finale	I was fine with Elektra's original death and really didn't see the need for this story, but it was impressive nonetheless.  Matt Murdock spends the whole story as himself, not Daredevil, adding to the serious tone.  The  purpose behind the story is a bit weak, but it works.  Actually, the better  parts involve the psychological elements, plus getting to follow M.M.  through his daily routine.  The fight sequences, while beautifully  executed, didn't seem as interesting as the rest.<br />I feel that this is  Miller's artistic high point - the artwork is very clean, and Lynn Varley's  colors add tremendous depth to the pages.  I wish that Miller's current  projects had this look, as I can't stand Sin City's chiaroscuro, and 300  looked too sketchy.	2000-01-10
US	51717849	RXS1KTSQFBIQR	0441813046	956476521	Titan (Gaea)	Books	1	12	46	N	N	This was really bad...	This is my 3rd attempt to get a review posted.  Normally, I'dhave given up, but my opinion of this book is so strongly negative, Ijust had to try again.<br /><br />Let me start off by saying that I'm a big fan of Varley's shorter novels (Millennium, Ophiuchi Hotline), as well as his short stories.  I think that he has one of the most vivid imaginations ever, and even better, he is able to combine his amazing creations into a cohesive story that is usually very enjoyable.  When it comes to his longer works, however, his skills waver.  Titan contains his trademark creativity, but the storyline is so weak, and the ending so bland, that everything else gets dragged down with it. It's as if he decided to coast on the strength of his creations instead of doing something significant with them.  A sign that I've had a good read is when I finish the book and say, &quot;Yeah, I can see that.&quot; With this book, it was a resounding, &quot;So what?&quot;<br /><br />Another problem I have with this book is the amount of sexuality contained within.  Now, I'm no prude, and I don't mind a little sex in my reading as long as it serves some point, furthering the plot or whatever.  In Titan, however, Varley takes an almost adolescent preoccupation with it, and it's SO prevalent.  It's as if he knows the reader is getting bored and needs to spice things up or risk losing them.  That's a trick employed by bad writers, and he should know better.<br /><br />Finally, let me say that if you're expecting this book to be quality science-fiction or to have a central message, you'll be disappointed.  I wouldn't call it sci-fi at all; it's purely escapist adult fantasy, and poorly written at that.  What amazes me is that this is book one of a trilogy.  I can't imagine continuing to read this storyline.	1999-12-07
US	51717849	R360GW3AHQUQ1T	0609804618	852111366	Our Dumb Century: The Onion Presents 100 Years of Headlines from America's Finest News Source	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Okay, I'll join the 5-stars	Everyone else has done a thorough job of reviewing this, but I had to jump in.  I really treasure this book.  I don't consider it political satire, but just satire in general, due to the fact that you don't need an  understanding of politics in order to get the jokes.  What's amazing is  that the authors of these pieces have a honest understanding of the  prevailing attitudes of the years covered, all the way back to the  beginning of this century!  They did their homework, and the result is  hilarious.	1999-12-02
US	51717849	RH09L8EP8B2XP	0930289331	704287989	Batman: Year One	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent companion to &quot;The Dark Knight Returns&quot;	I didn't know what to make of this when I read it in the original serialized form - I didn't initially enjoy the story or the art.  A distinct departure from his work on &quot;Dark Knight&quot;, Miller's  writing is nonetheless effective in portraying the first adventures of  Batman.  Mazzucchelli's art is actually quite fitting for the story: very  simple, but heavy on lines and shadows, sort of like Alex Toth.  I've grown  to treasure this book.  Plus, the storyline with Jim Gordon is very good.	1999-12-02
US	51717849	R1K4IREAVGFA7U	1560252154	68745332	Dreams: The Art of Boris Vallejo	Books	2	23	30	N	N	He was good, once...	I remember when this guy could give Frazetta a run for his money.  Then he became less interested in the art and more concerned with the models -  perfectly-muscled men and women who are barely altered from the obviously  contrived bodybuilding poses he photographs them in.  These characters are  more at home on a contest stage than fighting fantastic creatures.  Also,  his overuse of earth-tones in his paintings of the last 10 or so years is  horrible.  Everything looks bland and uniform; nothing catches the eye  anymore.  I wish he'd get back to producing work that had atmosphere  instead of churning out piece after piece for his calendars.	1999-11-23
US	51717849	R21QIJ7LE28WWN	1887424490	51597783	Legacy: Selected Paintings and Drawings by the Grand Master of Fantastic Art, Frank Frazetta	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Excellent companion to &quot;Icon&quot; -	&quot;Legacy&quot; contains a few repeats from &quot;Icon&quot;, but don't pass it by.  Once again, we're given a beautiful and affordable collection of Frazetta's work.  There are many pieces pulled from personal  collections.  Quite a bit of watercolor and pen work is included, as well  as some sculpture.	1999-11-22
US	51717849	RYR9WH7XOAFG	0345431618	517432051	The Man Who Fell to Earth	Books	5	8	9	N	N	If I were on a desert island...	Okay, this isn't the ONLY book I'd take, but definitely in the top 10.  I read it long ago, initially because I was intrigued by the title.  Upon completing it, I was speechless.  There's so much substance in this book,  and the message it presents couldn't be any more clear.  The title  is so  appropriate, almost a joke on the author's part.<br />It should truly be  considered a science fiction classic, so it's hard for me to understand  just why it's been out of print for so long... and even when it's back in  print, why an overpriced trade edition?  It's a shame when the shelves are  cluttered with layer upon layer of alternate-history/nanotech/  cyberpunk/shoot-em-up crud, but books like this are dismissed.  It's no  wonder that the field is so often dismissed with a scoff.  Read this book  and see that science fiction can have a worthwhile message.	1999-11-02
US	51717849	R3RJQKU9SE1QM3	1560973676	234425844	Barry Windsor-Smith: Opus (Vol. 1)	Books	2	11	15	N	N	Very poor presentation	I had been gnashing my teeth waiting for this book to arrive, but it was released earlier than expected, and I missed it at the stores.  A friend let me view his copy, and I can say that I'm glad I missed it.<br />This is a  pitiful presentation for an artist of Windsor-Smith's caliber.  &quot;Opus&quot; is the first of a series of books on his art, but judging  from this book, it's hard to see how the series will continue.  This is not  an ordered presentation of his works; it's a hodgepodge, picked from here  and there, with no real organization or chronological order.<br />Another  irritating factor is the layout of the art  on the pages.  To split  Windsor-Smith's artwork between two pages is a true disservice.  A quarter  of the image is lost in the spine!  What ever happened to fold-outs?  How  about increasing the size of the book?  This is horrible.<br />Finally, the  text: I like to get to know the artist and find out what makes them tick,  but this  is ridiculous.  Too much time is devoted to Windsor-Smith's  philosophy on life, the cosmos, etc.  The guy is an ARTIST, so get rid of  all this babbling and show more ART!!!  Or at least alter the text to  provide commentary on the pieces.<br />What kills me is that I anticipated  this book so highly, but what resulted was a huge disappointment.  I won't  be purchasing the second printing of this book, or any others in the  series.	1999-10-20
US	51717849	R2AMQ7TLBVV56H	0553573586	231757401	Feersum Endjinn	Books	4	0	0	N	N	confusing, but enjoyable	This is my first book by Banks.  I liked it, but I'm not sure if I'm going to try his other works.<br />The plot is very interesting.  It's a good mix of fantasy/sci-fi/cyberpunk/etc... The characters were fleshed out very well.  I found myself laughing at many of their situations and side comments,  especially Bascule's.<br />The book thoroughly confused me in some sections,  especially when it described the layout of the fastness.  I'm not sure that  I understand the ending either, but that doesn't prevent me from liking the  book overall.	1999-10-19
US	51717849	R13UKHKMPVZEK3	0553110616	737842842	House Atreides (Dune: House Trilogy Book 1)	Books	1	6	9	N	N	It's a prequel, whadya expect?	The problem with this prequel, or almost ANY prequel for that matter, is that, while working to fill in backstory for the fans, the fans already have an idea of how things will turn out in order to lead up to the  original series, thereby giving no real payoff within the prequel itself -  the story, therefore, is very paint-by-numbers.<br />In order to attact the  attention of new readers, however, another disservice is done: &quot;House  Attreides&quot; is written in a simplistic fashion to provide new readers  with essential info, and this insults the intelligence of those who have  followed the original series.<br />After reading this story, I shudder to  think that someone may mistakenly begin reading the Dune series with  &quot;House Attreides&quot; instead of &quot;Dune&quot;.  I would never  recommend this book to a newcomer OR a long-time Frank Herbert fan.  It is  too simplistically written, and I agree with a prior reviewer who stated  that it was written on the same level as Kevin Anderson's &quot;Young  Jedi&quot; series.  This book is not mature nor challenging; it doesn't  have near the heart or ambition of the original series.<br />The most  irritating point of the book for me is how it is peppered with the  characters wondering about the secret of the spice.  Well, any fan of  &quot;Dune&quot; knows the answer, and while this is designed to give a  sense of plot development to new readers, this technique is pretty cheesy  and falls flat on its face for fans.<br />On one hand, I can't believe that  the story of Dune would be polluted with this mess.  On the other hand, I  *can* understand it ($$$).  Don't bother with this book.	1999-10-19
US	51717849	R1HZH4543CVQDF	0441634842	444227320	The Ophiuchi Hotline (Eight Worlds)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent, excellent, excellent!!!!!!!!!	Wow! Reading this book was a blast. It's pretty complex, what with all of the converging/diverging plotlines, but that makes it all the more fun. There are so many different ways to give a summary of this book - every one  I've seen, from this website, to the book cover, to discussion groups, has  an interpretation which, when taken collectively, doesn't sound like the  same book. All I'll say is that it involves humanity learning of its  standing in the universe, but on the way to the answer, you get to read  about cloning, genetic manipulation, alien invasion, time-space travel,  transmissions from deep space, etc.<br />I admire John Varley's ability to fit  SO MUCH plot into a 200-page book.  The man has a fantastic  imagination.<br />Final note - &quot;Javelin&quot; has to be the most  interesting and original character I've read of in years.	1999-09-25
US	51717849	R1MY1VWM78TEW9	0553580531	409245980	Gates of Fire: An Epic Novel of the Battle of Thermopylae	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Better than I expected	My interest in this book was generated from my reading Frank Miller's &quot;300&quot;, but I didn't have a good feeling going into it.  Indeed, the book does have its problems - the characters start out as somewhat  flat.  The narrative jumps back and forth, to the point of flashbacks  within flashbacks, causing some confusion.  Also, the paperback has  numerous printing errors (&quot;The city lay PROSTATE before them&quot;) -  didn't anyone proofread this?<br />However, the story is very enjoyable,  especially the second half, presenting the battle in excellent detail.  The  characters are eventually fleshed out fairly well, more so the supporting  characters than the narrator.  The finale didn't pull any punches.	1999-09-18
US	51717849	R2DAJ66GUYDZYX	0812566637	515532352	Legends: Short Novels by the Masters of Modern Fantasy, Vol. 1	Books	1	6	6	N	N	What a rip-off	The original hardcover printing of this book featured 11 (I think) stories.  Now the paperback collection finally arrives, and it only contains FOUR of the eleven, with the note that two more collections  containing the rest of the stories will soon be available, thereby asking  you to shell out more bucks!  This is ridiculous!!!  All of the stories in  the hardcover could have easily fit into one paperback, but of course it's  difficult when the &quot;large-print-trick&quot; is employed as it is here.  Commercialism strikes again...	1999-09-13
US	51717849	R2JNM4JO6VIPOR	0399129502	52805175	The Dune Encyclopedia	Books	5	42	43	N	N	I DEMAND A REPRINT!!!!!!!!	Many years ago, I had only a casual interest in the Dune series, and I had to buy this book to clarify some events and characters. Eventually, I got rid of it, and sure enough, after a re-read in college, my interest in the  series grew stronger - now some lucky person is proudly displaying that  copy of the Encyclopedia on their shelf, and I have none! Argh!!!<br />This  is the best guide EVER written on any series, covering all characters,  objects, and events major and minor, with plenty of illustrations, and it  is very well written.  It's so in-depth, it's scary. Come on, the  structural formula for melange? How cool is that? I can only hope that with  the new books (?) coming out, this will be put back in print.	1999-09-07
US	51717849	REKCBGB6F5HHO	0345423496	284653366	3001: The Final Odyssey	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Oh brother...	After reading 2061, I had a nagging feeling that AC Clarke was going insane.  Well, 3001 confims it beyond a doubt.  It's sad to see an author slowly lose his skill and interest.  If this were submitted for publication  by a lesser-known author, it would have gone straight into the trash.	1999-09-03
US	51717849	RRK3UAUZ1KY6U	1878574590	657958712	Sin City	Books	3	8	17	N	N	The only Sin City you should read, if any.	I'll pretty much try anything Frank Miller puts out, and I highly anticipated this story in its original serialized form.  Even though the ending, and the writing in general, was pretty poor, I still enjoy it for  the action and art, especially the &quot;handcuff fight&quot;.<br />Miller  took a whole new direction with this story by turning to crime-noir in  stark black and white.  The problem is that this is pretty much ALL he's  been doing for the past 8 (?) or so years: Sin City ad nauseam.  And trust  me, the stories and art only get worse.  Enough already, Frank, there's  only so much hard-boiled macho garbage I can take.	1999-09-03
US	51717849	ROL3FGF3H6CYP	0380476053	525631916	Infinite Dreams	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Another good short-story collection	Of the three collections by Haldeman that I've read, I'd have to put this after None So Blind, but before Dealing In Futures, even though I gave them all 4's.  It contains a good number of stories, and as always, the first  entry is excellent.  Two of the reasons I love Haldeman's work are evident  here - his descriptive ability, and the fact that his stories don't always  end on an upbeat note.  One problem with this collection in general,  however: Haldeman is a combat veteran and has a graduate degree in  physics... almost every story's main character has some advanced  math/physics aptitude, is a vet, or both.  I can understand putting  yourself into your work, but this is too self-indulgent.  If Haldeman  weren't such a good writer, I would have tired of this very quickly.<br />*Unfortunately, you'll have to haunt the used bookstores for this one.	1999-08-31
US	51717849	R3CMYMX4CAV5SP	0446606693	380883305	Kingdom Come	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Well -	I really enjoyed reading this, but Maggin glossed over what I thought was one of the most, if not THE most, powerful moments of the comic series: when Superman catches Captain Marvel during their one-on-one and causes him  to revert to Billy Batson. This scene was described with intensity in the  comic, but in the novel, the strength of this act is not emphasized. If you  hadn't read the comic, you might not realize what happened! Also, the  resolution of the cover image for the paperback was downright awful - hey,  I'm a stickler...	1999-08-29
US	51717849	R2TM4HMMOI1013	0441531830	280207170	Millennium	Books	5	1	3	N	N	I really enjoyed this	After reading John Varley's excellent short story &quot;Air Raid&quot; and finding out that it became this book, I had to read it.  The short story is better, in my opinion, but this book does a good job of expanding it,  packing a huge amount of plot into approximately 200 pages.  The ending is  substantially different, and actually more thought-provoking.  I suggest  reading both.	1999-08-16
US	51717849	RK348FKYFUKS6	0446606693	380883305	Kingdom Come	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Prose paperback review...	This is a very well done adaptation by Elliot S. Maggin of the amazing comic story, one that got me back into comics, briefly.  It expands on the minor events in the comic and does an excellent job of fleshing out the  main character, Norman McCay.  The only problem I have with it is that it's  not accessible to everyone.  If you haven't read the comic or aren't  familiar with the heroes and villains of the DC Universe, you'll probably  miss the historical details that made the original series so much fun.  Comic characters were designed to be seen, and I feel that they never  translate well into prose.  Read it as a supplement to the comic, and  you'll be okay.	1999-08-10
US	51717849	RK56BU4J010SV	0451522761	691093854	The War of the Worlds (Signet Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Much more than I expected	Upon completing this book, I was amazed that this was published when it was (1898?).  I was expecting a sugar-coated portrayal of Martians invading England - &quot;Oh, I say, we're under attack!&quot;, or some such  nonsense.  What I got was a very enjoyable book that didn't pull any  punches when depicting the chaos, destruction, and death that results from  this invasion.  His portrayal of the Martians and their technology beats  anything that I've read in contemporary science fiction.<br />The only  problem I had with the book was Wells' narrative.  The story provides far  too much detail at points, giving exact times and locations for minor  events which I'd think someone who survived a disaster would have a hard  time recollecting.  With the overwhelming number of locations for  events  presented to the reader, you'll need a map of the London area in order to  stay on top of things.<br />Additionally, Asimov's afterword is very  insightful, and the cover by Roger Dean is great.	1999-08-09
US	51717849	R2D9GJMKBQQ0OM	0451452585	213423025	Dealing in Futures	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Enjoyable collection	I didn't enjoy this as much as None So Blind, but it's entertaining nonetheless.  Haldeman has become one of my favorite authors not only because of his excellent novels (Forever War, 1968), but also his short  stories.  He makes reading a story or novella a pleasure due to his ability  to present such vivid images without getting carried away.  His  characterization of aliens in the story &quot;A !Tangled Web&quot; is  hilarious.	1999-07-31
US	51717849	R2R4ZR892EO4L7	0486289125	745130256	Nordic Gods and Heroes	Books	5	34	36	N	N	I'm happy to see this back in print	I first read this in elementary school, and I always had fond memories of it as it was my introduction to the subject (plus a few Thor comic books).  Colum gives a straightforward presentation of the Norse myths.  There are  no mind-numbing discussions on the culture behind the stories or &quot;the  power of myth&quot;, just enjoyable tales, including the Ring saga.  Pogany's many illustrations are primarily done in clear and crisp linework.  4 &quot;plates&quot; are included, basically color paintings from the  early editions, but here in black and white - as a result, they look very  cloudy, but nice nonetheless.	1999-07-28
US	51717849	R38AF24SF5ASA4	0425045307	804435724	Manifest Destiny	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Stick with the original novella	Longyear's &quot;Enemy Mine&quot; is such a wonderful piece of work on its own - I don't see why it had to be mucked up like this. This book expands on the war presented in E.M., making it one story in a framework of humans  attempting to settle the universe, repeating history in the process.  Two  short stories and a framing sequence have been added which, while not too  bad, are nowhere near the standard of the original. By putting E.M. in this  context, its impact is lessened.	1999-07-19
US	51717849	R2416T9AY3GWY5	0962384119	970596185	Rip in Time	Books	4	1	2	N	N	I thought it was pretty decent	A was, at one time, a big Corben fan.  I collected everything of his that I could get my hands on.  As time went by, however, I realized that the stories he supplies artwork for really aren't that great: they seem to be  first structured around his exaggerated art (you know what I mean), with  good storytelling second, or third, even.  I ended up eventually getting  rid of my whole collection, but I kept this one.  The art is more  &quot;normalized&quot;, not much exaggeration.  He's actually using  restraint, and it looks great.  Also, the story is very well structured,  smooth flow, even though it &quot;cheats&quot; you on the ending (of  course, that's the risk you run with reading a time travel story).  It's  interesting to see how Jones and Corben weave their talents together to  present this story in an almost cinematic fashion - the scene/time changes  were particularly impressive. I agree with the other reviewer about the  black and white art - to do such beautiful work for this book and not have  it in color is a real disservice, especially when the covers WERE in color.  What a tease.	1999-07-14
US	51717849	R2BAD479DZ5M6C	1401227317	887239526	Superman: Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow?	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Three super stories by Alan Moore	You hear it all the time:  \\"I hate Superman...\\"  \\"He's too powerful...\\"  \\"He's boring...\\"  While I don't agree with such comments, I can see where they come from.  In 70+ years of stories, very few writers seem to have truly understood how to write Superman.  Oftentimes, readers are stuck with tired slugfests, meandering adventures, or whacked-out imaginary stories, none of which seem to require any real effort on the part of the writer.  In fact, I can count on one hand the writers whom I consider to have done the Man of Steel justice, and one of them is Alan Moore.  Moore is responsible for a total of THREE Superman stories (1985 - 86), but those three stories contain more thought and emotion than most others.  They are collected in the softcover SUPERMAN: WHATEVER HAPPENED TO THE MAN OF TOMORROW?, and while $15 is a steep price for this slim volume, the material will keep me coming back for multiple reads.  Contained within are:<br /><br />\\"Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow?\\" [Superman #423 & Action Comics #583] - Moore's 2-part farewell to your father's and grandfather's Superman.  This was the final (albeit imaginary) hurrah for the original Superman, prior to COIE rewriting the history of the DC Universe.  The editors seem to have given Moore carte blanche on the character, and he certainly took it, with the resulting story being very dark and violent.  All of Superman's major villains go on the offensive, forcing him to gather his friends and allies at the Fortress of Solitude for his last stand.  The art by Curt Swan, with inks by George Perez, Kurt Schaffenberger, and Murphy Anderson, is beautiful and helps to give the story a lighter touch; however, you'll never see Superman the same way again.<br /><br />\\"The Jungle Line\\" [DC Comics Presents #85] - Superman, delirious from the toxic effects of a Kryptonian fungus, wanders into a Louisiana bayou and is found by the Swamp Thing.  Rick Veitch provides appropriately weird art for this story, full of hallucinatory images and alien biology.<br /><br />\\"For The Man Who Has Everything...\\" [Superman Annual #11] -  Dave Gibbons beautifully illustrates this double-length story, which at first seems to be set in an alternate reality; however, when it's revealed what is really happening, it takes the combined abilities of Wonder Woman, Batman, and Robin to save the day.<br /><br />A common theme between these three stories is the depiction of Superman as being vulnerable, both mentally and physically.  Moore was not afraid to toss out the standard idealized concept of Superman, instead showing him with frailties, doubts, and real emotions.  It's a nice change to read a set of Superman stories that are resolved in a manner other than beating the villain to a pulp.llucinatory images and alien biology.<br /><br />\\"For The Man Who Has Everything...\\" [Superman Annual #11] -  Dave Gibbons beautifully illustrates this double-length story, which at first seems to be set in an alternate reality; however, when it's revealed what is really happening, it takes the combined abilities of Wonder Woman, Batman, and Robin to save the day.<br /><br />A common theme between these three stories is the depiction of Superman as being vulnerable, both mentally and physically.  Moore was not afraid to toss out the standard idealized concept of Superman, instead showing him with frailties, doubts, and real emotions.  It's a nice change to read a set of Superman stories that are resolved in a manner other than beating the villain to a pulp.	1999-07-13
US	51717849	R2J6Z7QSHZTGQ9	0679740678	67210777	The Man in the High Castle	Books	2	2	4	N	N	What a waste of time	If I would have known what I was getting into, I wouldn't have read it.  There are some interesting images conjured by this book, and Dick does some good characterizations, but that's it.  The plotlines run helter-skelter,  and there is no real conclusion, no payoff.  Immensely overrated in my  opinion.	1999-06-08
US	51717849	R8Q5RQ3JCDZTK	0441363946	246067647	I Have No Mouth & I Must Scream	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Good start, but thennnnn...	This collection has more bad than good. The title story has one of the more eerie concepts I've ever read, and it's carried out fairly well, but the rest are throw-aways. I always wonder if Harlan knows where he's going  with these stories when he starts them.	1999-05-31
US	51717849	R1CK9SKPCFMTUZ	0441002846	232264731	The Engines of God	Books	2	1	6	N	N	Disappointing	This novel starts off with some intellectual promise, but it soon turns into an action/adventure, probably written with a screenplay in mind (these days, I guess they all are).  Some chapters would make interesting short  stories, but altogether, the book is a miss.  The conclusion, if it can be  called that, is sure to evoke a &quot;So what?&quot; - even with all the  amazing events that occur, don't expect a big payoff.  Additionally, even  though ships in McDevitt's universe posess a &quot;hyperdrive&quot; of  sorts, the book's timespan seems to be TOO quick, thereby diminishing its  scope - this also holds true for the characters, which don't seem to change  much... strange, considering the amazing circumstances they are put  through.	1999-05-14
US	51717849	R3VL03A02TJWJA	0553274503	571684273	Flowers for Algernon (Bantam Classic)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of my favorites...	I'm a hard-core science fiction fan, but this book, which has a miniscule sci-fi element, is one of the better I've read.  A mentally disabled man receives a series of experimental treatments which turn him into an  intellectual, and his situation affects not only his life, but those of the  people around him, in many interesting ways.  Check it out - it's a quick  read, but full of insight on how we perceive others.	1999-05-13
US	51717849	R2SS273D4HQM5A	0441645763	275411141	Paingod and Other Delusions	Books	5	1	1	N	N	excellent collection of stories	My first Ellison book, and it was great!  Contains the classic &quot;Repent, Harlequin! Said the Ticktockman&quot;, and several others that aren't as well-known, but just as good.  The story &quot;Paingod&quot;  is very impressive.  His stories come off with the elegance of Bradbury,  but with a harder edge	1999-05-10
US	51717849	RMGNY8C3C5323	0917657551	494786668	Beyond Armageddon	Books	4	41	50	N	Y	This must be a mistake...	Yes, the book is out of print, but when I ordered it, the page said that it was still available, and I received it in 2 days.  Hmmm...  There's good and bad to this collection of 21 stories of nuclear devastation.  *Bad* -  Walter M. Miller's lengthy, rambling, and ultimately pointless foreword and  story introductions, and the abundance of typos (did anyone proofread  this?).  *Good* - The selection of works.  Bradbury, Ellison, Clarke,  Zelazny, Pangborn, and many others.  Plus, it includes one of my personal  favorites, &quot;By the Waters of Babylon&quot; by Steven Vincent Benet.  The cover is intriguing, as well... looks like Stanislaw Fernandes?	1999-04-20
US	51717849	R20R0Q6FB6VVVM	1887424350	291005659	Repent, Harlequin! Said the Ticktockman: The Classic Story	Books	2	7	14	N	N	great story, poor presentation	I have loved this short story ever since I first read it about 10 years ago.  Notice I said SHORT story - yet here it is blown up into an oversize hardcover with several very poor illustrations and presented to fans for a  $17 cover price.  Who would shell out the money for this?  I'll give you  two alternatives to buying this book: either look for the Alex  Nino-illustrated adaptation in Marvel Comics' &quot;Unknown Worlds of  Science Fiction&quot;, or scan [...] for the story in its  original collection, &quot;Paingod and Other Delusions&quot;, which, even  though rare and a bit pricey, will still cost less than this particular  book (and includes other stories).	1999-04-16
US	51717849	R2VKO4SSAVR30Y	0881843709	588344934	The Terminal Beach	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fairly good collection of stories	Maybe even a 4.5.  Not as comprehensive as &quot;The Best Short Stories of...&quot;, but it's a good intro to Ballard's work.  It gives a first-time reader a good idea of what to expect.  Ballard writes some  top-notch stories (The Drowned Giant, Bilennium, Deep End - all included  here), but in his collections, they always seem to get diluted by the  not-so-greats.  Still, the majority of the stories in this book are quite  good; more forward-thinking and original than anything that came out of  that period.  I think the best quality of his stories is that they deal  with societal concerns, and not just sci-fi.  Quite an enjoyable book.	1999-04-14
US	51717849	R9KQUGHJ6F6WR	0451196716	882393531	The Long Walk	Books	4	2	4	N	N	new reader, beware...	I love &quot;The Bachman Books&quot;.  I think the 4 tales are some of King's most interesting stuff, and they are very enjoyable for me, since they depart from his standard horror writing.  I decided to post this  review, however, because of the appearance of this edition on the shelves.  The 4 tales of &quot;TBB&quot; are novellas, really, and not long enough,  in my humble opinion, to warrant an individual release.  So what we have  here is the publisher splitting up the original collection (priced at  $7.99), and asking the exact same price for 1/4 of the material.  Oh, but  wait, it's been spread out by approximately 100 pages to make it thicker.  Good grief, Stephen, like you need the money...  My advice: go to the used  bookstore, find &quot;The Bachman Books&quot;, and let this overpriced book  collect dust on the shelf.	1999-04-03
US	51717849	R2LM0776ZT4QYM	0553379267	284019128	A Canticle for Leibowitz (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	One of the best ever...	This book was one of several that taught me what science fiction had the potential to be when placed in the correct hands.  There are numerous messages in this book, but the most important to me was how history can  repeat itself - so, in the end, what's it all worth if we don't learn?  This is one of the few books in my collection which I've re-read numerous  times. I stumbled upon it by pure luck about 10 years ago - I was helping  my mom dispose of old texts at the school in which she works. Back in the  corner of the bookroom was a stack of boxes from what I assume was an  english class.  Inside was a trove of sci-fi: Canticle, the Perelandra  Series, Left Hand of Darkness, etc.  After reading them, I was surprised  that a high school class possibly studied these.  If only schools today put  this much thought into their required reading.	1999-04-02
US	51717849	R11K0XJIYHH3W0	0345348036	544398776	The Princess Bride: S Morgenstern's Classic Tale of True Love and High Adventure	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Pretty good!	Like most, I saw the movie first (died laughing), and expected the book to be so-so. I was overjoyed that the book is just as funny!  Goldman's &quot;notes&quot; can at times be intrusive, and the ending is rushed, but  it's a very enjoyable story.	1999-04-02
US	51717849	R2000DWMMYNIYB	0886778174	702249100	The Reel Stuff	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Best book investment in a long time	DAW was on the money when they put this together. It's a great idea for a short-story collection - high praise considering that anthologies seem to be the virus du jour of the sci-fi/fantasy market... enough already!  This  book stands out not only for the premise, but for the selection of stories  included, and it's likely the reader will have seen at least 2 of the  movies based on these stories.  Then, to actually READ the source  material... well, it shows you just how much Hollywood will take advantage  of an author once they get the name on the contract. Speaking of, there's  two, yes, TWO entries by Philip K. Dick, and these were probably the most  altered on their way to the big screen. Anyway, this book is a lot of fun.  The only problem I had was the inclusion of &quot;Amanda and the  Alien&quot; by Robert Silverberg - an amazingly sub-par, even amateurish,  story, confirming exactly why I don't read his stuff.  It shouldn't be  here, but with the other gems, I can overlook it.	1999-03-16
US	51717849	R1LEBBCV9CO87Z	1565041887	117592701	Corum: The Prince With the Silver Hand	Books	5	4	8	N	N	My preferred version of the Eternal Champion	Don't get me wrong, Elric is great, but Corum was the facet of the Champion that stuck with me the most, I guess because of how the character's fate relates to mythology.  Plus, the stories are much more  visual and absorbing than the other Champion tales.<br />***I'm very pleased  that WW Publishing is collecting the works of Moorcock, but isn't there  some way to put these in mass-market paperback size at an affordable price?  Even a trade softcover costs more than I want to pay for a book, plus they  take up too much space.  Moorcock has so much to offer fans and newbies  alike.  I mean, they did it with Tales Of The White Wolf... How about it?	1999-02-23
US	51717849	R2A1Y366K9ER6W	0553575988	295555418	War of the Worlds: Global Dispatches	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Could have been better	The idea for this colection is such an intriguing one, but the majority of the stories are poorly conceived - the Henry James entry is almost a point by point recounting of the original work except for the  &quot;surprise&quot; ending (and begins with one of the longest sentences  I've ever read). I had to force myself to finish the majority of them.  A  few, however, are quite enjoyable; for example, the Lovecraft story, in  which his style is exaggerated to the point of hilarity.  This book is  really just something to pass the time - light entertainment, nothing more.	1999-02-23
US	51717849	REARFR1MP4JG4	044180263X	691093854	The Time Machine	Books	5	1	1	N	N	not just sci-fi	I enjoyed this book not just because of the science fiction slant (and HGW does a good job of theorizing time travel), but because of the thinly veiled commentaries, covering everything from  class struggles to  evolution.  The narrative is a bit dry, but hey, I can deal with it, and  the fact that this book was written so long ago only adds to the  outstanding quality of the plot.  A funny note - my edition was published  in 1968, the cover showing the traveller materializing against a background  of Eloi and Morlocks.  The Eloi, as they should be, are represented as  slight people covered with flowers, and the front &amp; back covers as well  as the intro page emphasize how this book predicted the coming of the  &quot;flower children&quot; and how HGW foresaw the peace movement of the  60s.  Yeah, it's a stretch, but cute nonetheless...	1999-02-16
