US	51710172	R21WFRH2AAOHTY	1400043395	813354201	Never Let Me Go	Books	3	5	8	N	N	What it means to be human	Kathy is nearing the end of her time as a carer and she tries to make sense of her life and the lives of those she cares for. After the death of her childhood friend, Ruth, a love for Tommy, Ruth's sometime boyfriend, not wholly kept secret or repressed is rekindled. This love fuels her desire to track down a hope only talked about in hushed whispers that would extend their time together. <br /> <br />The rest of this review contains spoilers, so read on at your own risk. I will say though, that Ishiguro reveals the \\"secret\\" plot twist very early in the book. <br /> <br />Stem cell research, new discoveries in genetics, and advances in the neurosciences have once again brought the age-old question of what it means to be human front-and-center. What rights would clones have, if it ever became viable to make them? Why would we even want to clone a human being? Would that make us less, or more, human? Ishiguro approaches these questions obliquely in his book, \\"Never Let Me Go\\". The science is never discussed and the focus remains squarely on the human-side of the equation. <br /> <br />The book is written as a narrative of life as a Hailsham student, and later as a carer, through the lens of Kathy's memories. It has the feel of an intimate conversation coming at the end of the narrator's life - a making peace with her past. <br /> <br />Of course, the reader knows from the beginning that Hailsham is not an ordinary boarding school. Something ominous lies on the horizon. And the author doesn't take long to let you know what it is - the \\"students\\" are actually clones raised to be donors of their vital organs once they reach maturity. What should have been something of a shock is rather less so. Ishiguro's writing is excellent, but his style lends a detached feeling that keeps the reader at arms length. In some sense it matches the isolation of the students from society-at-large; perhaps an attempt to explain how any society could tolerate such a system - out-of-sight out-of-mind. But the lack of emotional attachment to Kathy or Tommy or Ruth, the primary characters, makes them somewhat disposal. Who cares what happens to them? And in a way it dampens any interest the reader might have in what Ishiguro has to say about what it is to be human. And what exactly does he have to say about humanness? His answer is rather muddled. <br /> <br />Are we human because we have the capacity to love? It is love the drives Kathy to seek a deferment for Tommy and her. But their love isn't strong enough to withstand disappointment. Perhaps it never really was love, only mutual affection born from growing up together and sharing a common fate. <br /> <br />Perhaps our capacity for hope, even if only a thin sliver, makes us human. But Ishiguro doesn't give humanity much credit for that. After Tommy and Kathy discover that the deferment was a rumor that the teachers of Hailsham eventually stopped denying in the belief that it provided the \\"students\\" hope their own struggle to continue living ends. They give up and except their fate. Ishiguro spends little time on society outside of the bubble Kathy lives in. As a consequence the Hailsham proprietor's attempt to change society seems half-hearted and in the end even they give up. <br /> <br />Artist expression is Ishiguro's most prominent answer. Every year an arts and crafts show is held at the school. And every year the best are selected for the proprietor's private gallery; a gallery whose purpose is the source of some speculation as no one has actually seen it. Years later Kathy and Tommy would come believe that this art was collected to prove the love of applicants for deferment by showing their inner selves, who they really were - art as an expression of the human soul. In the final analysis though, as even this has failed to change the fate of the \\"students\\", rationalization may be Ishiguro's most convincing answer (our capacity to twist evidence to suit already preconceived ideals or ignore it when it can't be bent to our will). <br /> <br />Despite all of this there is enough in \\"Never Let Me Go\\" to stimulate thought and discussion if only the reader were made to care. Unfortunately, I could never bring myself to feel anything for Kathy. And that is a shame because hers is a cautionary tale that we as a society, and as individuals, should pay attention to. It goes beyond the particulars and delves deep into what makes us special, what makes us human. <br />	2005-07-16
US	51710172	R1OFGK4MDJEGZI	1929154178	234166906	The Little Guide to Your Well-Read Life	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Enrich your reading by putting more focus into it	Leveen's guiding principle for, Well-Read Life, is that a richer reading experience leads to a richer life. He came to, in his words, \\"book love,\\" late in life. But his enthusiasm and genuine respect for books is evident - there's no fanatic like the convert. <br /> <br />Well-Read Life, provides more an architecture than a detailed blue-print for increasing the quality of your reading life. Compared to Adler and Van Doren's, \\"How To Read A Book\\", Leveen barely outlines the process of teasing the most out of a book. But theirs is just a part of the process. A process that Leveen contends extends to the choosing of what to read. If there is a single point to be made in the book, it is that a reader must not only actively read books, but actively choose them as well. Not for Leveen blind adherence to the canonical lists of Great Western books. Each reader must choose what suits them and when. It is here that Leveen provides, this reader at least, with something new. <br /> <br />The basic plan is this: 1) develop a list of candidates, sorted by category, 2) amass a library of books to be read, usually chosen directly from the list but with some serendipity and 3) go back and review the books you have read at ever-increasing intervals. The importance of the last is in part due to how memory works. Kenneth Higbee in his book, \\"Your Memory\\" says, \\"The fact is that no matter how you learn something, if you do not use it occasionally you are likely to forget it unless you review it.\\" <br /> <br />Developing a list of book candidates isn't a willy-nilly process. It requires that readers identify what interests them. Leveen suggests turning those interests into categories to provide focus. Reading for Leveen isn't about choosing books at random or from someone else's list. It is about what interests him. This list serves as the pool from which your purchases will be made. Some serendipity is acceptable, even encouraged. I probably would never have picked up Miller's, \\"A Canticle For Leibowitz\\", if I hadn't allowed chance to have its say; it turns out to have been one of the best genre-fiction novels I have had the pleasure to read in some time. I had developed some focus in my reading habits over the past couple of years but not until I read Leveen's book did I construct a written list of categories into which I placed possible future purchases. One last point about these categories, what you put into them is as important has identifying them. Leveen would have you seek out the best of the best in each category, but provides little guidance on how to find them. One of the most frustrating things about entering into a field new to you is that feeling of disorientation trying to find a starting place. I haven't found a magic wand, or website, that provides the answers - and neither has Leveen. But I can tell you that the feeling of accomplishment when you finally get your bearings is worth the toil. <br /> <br />The ever-expanding stack of unread books in my office/library was a constant source of irritation to me. It seemed somehow irresponsible to purchase more books when I hadn't even read all of the ones I already owned. I felt like a fraud when someone would ask if I had read all of those books and I could only report having read seventy or eighty percent of them to completion. Leveen thinks differently. For him having a large stack of unread books means that when the mood, or need, strikes the right book will always be within arms reach. Whew! No longer do I need worry about having more books than I could possibly read! Of course, budget and space play a part, but conscience need not worry. Again, though, this isn't just any old pile of books. It is a body of work drawn from your list of candidates. <br /> <br />Part of active reading is review. Leveen suggests that your part in the author-reader relationship doesn't end when you finish reading. Set the book aside for a day. Then go back and read your notes (you did remember to take notes didn't you?). Review select passages and think about what the author was trying to say and how it was said. Set the book aside again. This time come back to it in a week or so. Set the book aside and come back in month or so. After this review you can shelve the book. This process isn't entirely new. Books on memory use this review technique as part of learning and memorization. <br /> <br />Leveen's book, Well-Read Life, is more atlas than road-map. But if you haven't figured out where you are going, all the detailed road-maps in the world won't help you get there. This reader, at least, with Leveen's help, finally found his destination - until, that is, he gets there and then it will be time to find a new one.	2005-07-02
US	51710172	R1NVEJKX1SEEHK	0375407219	532336785	Spice: The History of a Temptation	Books	5	12	13	N	N	"Salt and Ground Pepper to taste."	\\"Salt and Ground Pepper to taste.\\" Opening cookbooks at random it isn't hard to find such variations on that theme in dozens of recipes. But in the not too distant past ground pepper and other spices were used in quantities far greater than our pinch today. Jack Turner writes in, Spice: The History Of A Temptation, an intriguing history of something that is now almost pass. Though the word, \\"spice\\" is still used to described something exotic or foreign it has more often retained its erotic overtones. Spices once represented more than mere culinary enhancers. The history of their trade and uses has been the topic of other books. But Turner brings to the table a fun and informative look at the world when spice could be found in the bedroom, the physicians medicine cabinet, the counting house, and the pantry. His sense of humor is evident even in his chapter headings - \\"The Regicidal Lamprey and the Deadly Beaver\\" and \\"Afterward; or, How to Make a Small Penis Splendid.\\" <br /> <br />Open up nearly anyone's pantry, or cabinets, and they are likely to have at least black pepper, cinnamon, nutmeg, and ginger - perhaps even cardamom and clove. It is hard to imagine that even the small quantities in the bottles sold at the typical grocery store represent year's worth of earnings to the common laborer just a few hundred years ago. Turner's book gives a sense of the hold that spices held on the imagination of ancient and medieval minds. Indeed, it was to find a new route to the Indies that Columbus and Magellan set sail - it isn't too far-fetched to suggest that the spice trade to some degree fueled the Age of Discovery. That until recently clove grew on only five volcanic islands in the Far East in some measure gives us a sense of just how exotic and foreign it once was. The journey to Europe could take as much a year, with the spices passing through many hands - Indian, Arab, Italian, etc. Clove and nutmeg inspired many myths and legends about their cultivation in fantastic lands. But even their rarity doesn't entirely explain the covetousness they inspired in many. Sometimes at odds with this rarity - the consequence being that most could never hope to afford even small quantities - is the ubiquity with which they appear in medicine, religion, sex, and cookery. Even Turner admits that it is difficult to understand all of this looking back from a distance of several hundred years, and the vast cultural divide that has opened between us and our forebears. <br /> <br />The value of spices to the medieval world is evident in their laws and even in the methods used to deceive buyers. Merchants adulterating their stock of spice could be executed. More revealing is that some merchants bloated their spices by adding shavings of silver. Perhaps most revealing of all is that many were willing to risk life and limb in the long dangerous trek to purchase spices at their source. Spices were even used as diplomatic incentives when suing for peace or bargaining for favors. <br /> <br />Though spices were used in greater quantities than at present, Turner largely dispels the myth that they were used to mask the taste of rancid food: \\"Anyone willing to believe that medieval Europe lived on a diet of spiced and rancid meat has never tried to cover the taste of advanced decomposition with spices\\" - whether from experience or research he doesn't say. Besides, spices were vastly more expensive than cheap meat. Still, there is some truth to the matter. The preservation of meat was largely accomplished by using salt, resulting in dry chewy meat that often required soaking and prolonged cooking before being eaten. Spices helped make preserved meat more edible. Wine deteriorated rapidly once the cask had been opened. Between the freshness of a just opened cask and the acidity of one opened a few days before the taste of the wine could be \\"refreshed\\" with spices. In time spiced wine was in demand no matter the freshness. <br /> <br />Though you wont find detailed statistics and maps of trade routes throughout history you will find an engaging look at how pervasive spices once were. Turner's history is fun to read and for those who want more information the obligatory list of sources can be found at the end of the book. He is the type of historian I wish I had been introduced to earlier in life. I'll be on the look-out for more books by this author.	2005-02-17
US	51710172	RQFDJVLT504BJ	0312150946	782803257	Creating Short Fiction: The Classic Guide to Writing Short Fiction	Books	4	53	55	N	N	Practical advice from a talented writer	Knight's, Creating Short Fiction is, perhaps ironically, a short book but he manages to cover the craft of writing from nurturing talent to getting the story completed to what its like being a writer. A lecturer at the Clarion Workshop and author of many short stories and novels he knows how to write. But he doesn't give the reader a step-by-step guide to story writing. Such a recipe, in my limited experience, doesn't exist and Knight does well to avoid trying to give one. What the reader will find are discussions about the elements every story must have and how to use them. He also discusses what a story is and is not, how to generate ideas, and even a few work habits the reader might find effective. <br /> <br />The elements of stories and story writing can be found in many other books. Rather than simply parrot them, Knight is candid about which techniques he doesn't like and why; but that isn't to say the would-be author is allowed to break every rule. He give examples of stories and authors that show the successful use of a particular element or technique e.g. first person subjective point-of-view. And Knight includes diagrams that make the concept of story structure and viewpoint easier to understand. All of this advice is given in a conversational style that is never condescending. <br /> <br />Creating Short Fiction helped me to understand that, like painting or drawing, writing is highly individualized. Every art form has its accepted rules and techniques. And each artist must learn to build upon that foundation, combining the fundamental elements into unique patterns. <br /> <br />There are a few editorial errors, mainly of omission, that make the book feel as if it were the choicest bits from a much longer work. Overall this is an excellent book for the beginning writer, and perhaps the experienced one.	2005-01-30
US	51710172	R3Q8T9MWOFJCN0	0060987529	558936324	Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A work of art beyond a retelling of Cinderella	It is easy enough to describe Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister as a retelling of the Cinderella story. But that is too simple. Maguire makes the story his own by changing voice and main character. More a historic novel in form and tone than a fairytale the story is no longer the traditional one. To add a ring of truth he sprinkles in actual events, such as the conversion to Calvinism and the collapse of the tulip-bulb market in Holland in the early Sixteenth century. Fairytales were meant to instruct and to entertain. If Maguire had only reshaped Cinderella into a historic novel his removal of fairy godmothers and magic would leave a rather hollow story. But he doesn't. His characters mull over issues such as the role of art and beauty and their affects on society and the individual; extreme beauty can be as isolating as extreme ugliness. The discussion of these topics is made less daunting by retaining enough echoes of the original fairytale that the story remains familiar and comfortable.    There is also a beauty to the language of Confessions. One aspect of appreciating the work of any artist is recognition of his unique contribution to form and technique i.e. his transcendence of it. But another aspect, closely allied to form and technique, is how his art touches the heart and soul of its viewers. Maguire is a masterful writer whose use of language is beautiful beyond simple communication. He has written a novel that can be appreciated for its beauty of language, its compelling story, and its thought provoking questions - each aspect informs the others but never interferes.    I admit to being uneasy at first with Maguire's making of the Cinderella fairytale into a more mundane historic fiction. But further reflection led me to accept that it should be judged in its own right. Maguire is a talented writer and Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister has found a permanent place on my crowded bookshelves.	2005-01-08
US	51710172	R5AHJRPDBD2K8	1582344167	481973042	Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Magic in 19th century England written in a Jane Austen voice	Disenchanted with Fantasy for the past several years I had begun to despair of finding anything interesting and unique. To be sure, there have been several quite popular novels and series. But most ran to tales more distinctly political intrigues than magical or meandering stories that should have been put to bed long ago - none of which is to my taste. It was one reviewer's characterization of Clarke's style as \\"pitch-perfect Austen\\" that intrigued me enough to purchase, Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell. I have read all of Jane Austen's novels and am quite fond of them. Having recently finished Clarke's debut novel I can attest that, on the face of it, the reviewer wasn't far off the mark. But if Clarke is a modern Jane Austen she is a more melancholy one. <br /> <br />Clarke should be congratulated for such a finely crafted first novel. Her mastery of language and structure allow her to maintain the fiction of a story set and written in the nineteenth century. It is marred somewhat by her choice to \\"misspell\\" - or use a much older spelling - a word or two to maintain the illusion of some age. It had rather the opposite effect on me in that it seemed more like the contrivance of a modern author attempting to lend an antique air to her voice. Nevertheless, this is a minor quibble. A more annoying habit was the constant use of long footnotes. Instead of a few short lines or references we are often treated to footnotes that either take up over three-quarters of the page or run on for several pages! They are a distraction that adds next to nothing to the story itself. The attempt reminded me of Penguin's series of literary classics containing notes explaining terms or ideas likely unknown to modern readers. But they are mercifully short and to the point. <br /> <br />The lack of action in Jane Austen's novels is counterbalanced with a nearly perfect choice of when to end the story - just before interest turns into boredom for lack of anything substantial happening. Clarke throws in more action but the story still seems a little long (more than twice the length of an Austen novel). The story builds so slowly that the climax sneaks up and it is almost over before you know it. It turns darker towards the end. Clarke turns Strange, for a time, into a more Poe-like character - sad, insane, dark - than anything you will find in Austen. You might think that someone writing in \\"pitch-perfect Austen\\" would be out of their element in such a setting. But Clarke's imagery and characterization remain strong even as it becomes less Austen-like. The ending felt neither like a resolution or the promise of one. In the end (pun intended) I was dissatisfied. But the journey itself was pleasurable enough to make up for it. <br /> <br />Despite criticism the story is very fine indeed, if a little long. It is one of the finest I have read in recent years. If you enjoy Clarke's storytelling you might want to pick up a Jane Austen novel or two.	2005-01-01
US	51710172	RLQD8H55LIPY3	1573228729	4143821	Pastoralia	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Less about rising above life than living it	Dystopic and funny, with only a glimmer of hope. That is George Saunders to me. His protagonists are often shown laboring on in a continuing struggle to exist, seemingly fruitlessly as in Pastoralia, but not always, as in The Falls. This collection starts with two very strong stories, Pastoralia and Winky. <br /> <br />The first-person narrative in Pastoralia is superbly written. The nameless protagonist could be anyone - is anyone. Man is rarely an island unto himself and Saunder's chooses to tell the story at the intersection of two lives in a selfish, cyclic struggle to cope with problems. Winky was the first story in some time to make me laugh out loud. It pokes fun at those positive thinking take-hold-of-your-life seminars that litter late-night television infomercials. And it is funny, funny, funny. But it is also about a co-dependent relationship whose hopeless shackles are not just a little sad. The rest of the stories are weaker, less powerful. <br /> <br />Sea Oak was not only my least favorite it left me wondering just what the point was. The dead aunt come-back-to-live-the-life-she-wasn't-able-to does not ring true. It was more bizarre than meaningful. The Fall, the last story, seemed more like a bone tossed out to end everything on a positive, hopeful note. It felt rushed and as a result seemed less credible than most of the others. <br /> <br />The stories seem less about real change in the protagonists than about, \\"this is life and its unfair, scary, messy, and often hopeless.\\" And one, The End of FIRPO in the World, even seems less like a story than a scene or vignette. I enjoyed reading the stories, but I am glad the book stopped at six - perhaps because they strike so close to home without providing much real hope for change.	2004-12-18
US	51710172	R36W2QMFAXS801	0679643230	670553713	The Reformation: A History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	An insightful summary of the Reformation	There is no shortage of old and new material about the Reformation. It sometimes feels like trying to take a sip of water from a fire hose - clich perhaps, but true nevertheless. To take that sip of water you need a way to lessen the flow, a valve. Collinson's book, The Reformation, serves this purpose admirably. But more than that it puts the valve in your hands, to open or close as you see fit. Any general coverage of a topic will necessarily leave out some, perhaps many, details. In this regard Collinson makes excellent choices in what to include. But his genius lies in the ability to reveal the discovery process by explicitly asking the questions historians seek to answer about the past. For example, historians have recently questioned whether or not the Reformation was a single event, albeit over a period of about a century, many events, or even if it has been a continuous process right up to the present. <br /> <br />The book briefly covers topics ranging from politics, people, art, and language to Luther, Calvin, and Erasmus. Collinson's writing style is informal but not sloppy. Each topic seemed to fit so well together that the book flowed smoothly from beginning to end. And here is the valve: within many chapters, and at the end in suggested readings, Collinson cites the most relevant sources for the differing viewpoints of historians such as F. Fernandez-Armesto and Euan Cameron. To be sure you can find a bibliography in any book on the Reformation. But if you don't plan on reading every single one it can be difficult to decide which ones are representative of the differing opinions. Collinson often helps by telling the reader, in general terms, which side of the debate a historian is on (though it is never really that simple). <br /> <br />The Reformation is an excellent book in many regards. It can serve as a starting place for a general, or in-depth, survey of the Reformation. But it can also stand-alone as an excellent summary of the major characters,events, and themes of the Reformation. <br />	2004-12-06
US	51710172	R1BL2XDEPRRC4Y	0767908376	777303523	Out of the Flames: The Remarkable Story of a Fearless Scholar, a Fatal Heresy, and One of the Rarest Books in the World	Books	3	56	60	N	N	Worth reading, despite some flaws	The Goldstone's write in the prologue that, Out of the Flames, is, \\"...the story of one book - Michael Servtus's book...\\" and even the title proclaims it is, \\"The Remarkable Story of a Fearless Scholar, A Fatal Heresy, and One of the Rarest Books in the World.\\" But I think the Epilogue contains a better characterization of what this book aspired to, and sometimes achieved: \\"But there were also those, no less brilliant, who did not succeed, whose ideas could not take root before they were crushed. Their vision and passion were no less intense, and what they had to say no less vital to the human spirit. It was only circumstance that separated them from the others [Newton, Shakespeare, etc.].\\" <br /> <br />Navigating your way through the important events of any period in history can be tricky. And the Goldstone's have a lot of ground to cover in a relatively short book - Servetus' story encompasses much of the period generally labeled the Reformation. Only those events and characters in some way related to the story of Servetus', Christianismi Restitutio are included in Out of the Flames. But even this narrowing still leaves a lot of interacting events and characters to write about in only a few hundred pages. The author's do an admirable job in their selections. The narrative does seem to jump around, but the Goldstone's rarely take a long time in bringing it back to Servetus and the Christianismi Restitutio. And, at times, their journey through the Reformation landscape is marred by oversimplification and the occasional twentieth century viewpoint ascribed to sixteenth century characters. Take the Goldstone's brief treatment of the origins of the printing press. Not enough documentary evidence exists to assign motives to any party or even to really know what Gutenberg was up to during significant portions of the experimental phase - Gutenberg periodically \\"disappears\\" for stretches of several years. Yet their coverage suggests historians have a complete, concrete picture of Gutenberg and portrays Fust and Schoeffer as greedy men whose sole aim was to steal the invention of someone else for their own profit. Not all of the events covered are oversimplified in this manner. But enough are that it must, in the end, detract somewhat from the story as history. <br /> <br />Out of the Flames is not solely a biography of Michael Servetus. Perhaps half, maybe less, of the book is actually devoted to his life. The Goldstone's spend time on other important sixteenth century characters; John Calvin, Francis I, Marguerite d'Angouleme to mention a few. The \\"climax\\" of the book comes when the story gets to Servetus' trial in Geneva - in many respects a clash between two titanic intellects, Calvin's and Servetus'. Here the Goldstone's clearly have their favorite. Calvin comes across as a rabid animal, foaming at the mouth in his desire to execute Servetus at the first possible moment. Granted, Calvin can't really be excused for his actions, but the irony of arguably one of the most effective reformers of the sixteenth century trying to suppress a dissenting opinion is often lost in that bias toward Servetus which softens his own faults (a towering ego and often intemperate, abusive language) and magnifies Calvin's. Such bias doesn't mean that the story the Goldstone's tell isn't worth reading. But it is something readers should be aware of - if for no other reason than to keep some perspective. <br /> <br />In addition to the thread of antitrinitarianism (the heresy that got Servetus burned at the stake) the story of Michael Servetus is about a scientific discovery that lay buried in the primarily theological, Christianismi Restitutio. Servetus was trained in the medical profession, though theology seems to have been of greater interest to him. As an assistant to Vesalius, one of the great anatomists of the sixteenth century, Servetus discovered the role of the heart in circulating blood throughout the body. Even Vesalius, who got so much elseright, missed it. But Servetus never mentioned it until much later, and only in passing. Because the Christianismi Restitutio was suppressed for its heretical ideas, William Harvey would receive credit for his independent discovery several decades later. Here is the circumstance the Goldstone's talk about in the Epilogue that separated Servetus from celebrated men like Newton and even Harvey. <br /> <br />The last few chapters of the book are devoted to tracing ownership of the remaining copies of Christianismi Restitutio up to the present. Here the irony that one of those copies happened to be Calvin's own is not lost; it was Calvin who ordered that all copies of the book be burned to ensure that Servetus' heresy would not spread. <br /> <br />Despite the faults I have noted, I enjoyed reading Out of the Flames. The bibliography at the end of the book contains some useful entries for biographies of Charles V and Francis I.	2004-10-26
US	51710172	R198ASM4VOA6F4	B0001OOUEC	108572418	Mercator: The Man Who Mapped the Planet	Books	3	1	1	N	N	At times more cartographic history than biography	A good biography gives you not only a sense of the person, but also of the place. The very best can leave you believing the person a cousin, or even a distant brother or sister - that sense of person and place magnified almost to familial relation. I have found such books an excellent adjunct to the study of history. Not the least because they bring color and life to the sometimes dry and academic prose wielded by so many historians. Nicholas Crane's, \\"Mercator \\" is at times a lively look at the life and achievements of Gerard Kremer (known to most as Mercator); with more emphasis placed on achievement than on character.    The book begins appropriately with Mercator's birth. Crane's style is generally fluid throughout the entire work, but I found myself rereading the first two or three chapters because of what seemed to be inconsistency in dates. It turned out to be more the long expositions on current affairs that Crane sprinkles throughout than any chronological errors. The other problem I encountered was his occasional use of commodity prices to explain current conditions with little other context than implication. How much a particular item costs is useful to the extent that the reader knows such other information as how much the average worker earned in a month, or a year, and the cost of other basic necessities. Crane often fails to provide this context. Once past the bumpy beginning the rest is pretty much smooth sailing.    There are plenty of color and b&w plates. But since most of the originals are large wall-sized maps or enormous globes (at least by the standards of today) the reproductions are nearly useless for detailed examination. They are nonetheless beautiful. Mercator's innovations Crane explains textually, but the lack of useful diagrams makes understanding difficult. This is perhaps a criticism for the publisher rather than the author. The cost of including color plates and diagrams may have been prohibitive - but in that case I would have rather had less breadth and more depth i.e. fewer items reproduced but with each spread over more than one plate to permit detailed study.    \\"Mercator\\" sometimes reads more like a history of 16th century cartography than a biography of Gerard Mercator, due perhaps to insufficient primary source material. And that is my most significant criticism - that it loses incisiveness by attempting to cover both subjects rather than allowing his life to take center stage with place as a backdrop. Crane's biography will not take its place beside Ron Chernow's, \\"Titan\\" or H.W. Brands, \\"The First American\\" as one of the very best. But it is still a pleasant read and aside from my literary criticisms I have no reason to doubt Crane's scholarship. Consider it more of an appetizer than an entre.	2004-10-04
US	51710172	R1ORWUN3DVMN13	0140511539	69129800	The Penguin Atlas of Modern History : to 1815 (Hist Atlas)	Books	3	18	21	N	N	Modern History in very broad brush strokes	My recent interest in Early Modern European History led me to search for an atlas that would help place, geographically, the countries, cities, and towns often mentioned in the histories. Modern atlases will do in a pinch, but it can be difficult to match modern spellings with those of several hundred years ago - if indeed they still exist. I was surprised when my search turned up few recent publications. In fact, The Penguin Atlas of Modern History was the only one I could find readily available that covered the specific period of interest. <br /> <br />The Atlas itself is a mixture of text and graphics. It is generally divided into interleaved sections that cover the World and then Europe for a given period. Almost without fail each page of text is followed by a supporting map. Most of the maps are large scale - either showing the entire world or an entire continent. It is relatively easy to locate major countries and large political units, like the Holy Roman Empire, significant trade or exploration routes, and the large population centers. But forget about finding nearly any city or town even slightly off the beaten path. <br /> <br />The Penguin Atlas of Modern History tried to do too many things instead of just focusing on the maps. Consequently, it failed to be more than a very broad introduction to the period textually and even less so graphically. The maps provided less information than my 1950's Rand McNally Atlas of World History. And most of the historical texts covering this period provide maps on par with those in this Atlas. <br /> <br />If you are looking for an introduction, supported with large simple maps, to the general movement of this period than I would recommend this book. But for more in-depth study The New Cambridge Modern History Atlas, if you can find a copy, is a better choice. With 288 pages of maps it has far more information than the Penguin Atlas of Modern History. There is no text, other than that on the maps themselves, but then, thats what the history books are for.	2004-09-11
US	51710172	RCA9ZSI82KPOP	0139801367	13368934	Your Memory: How it Works and How to Improve it (A Spectrum book)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	A place to start	Higbee's book, Your Memory, is a combined survey of mnemonic techniques and systems, with supporting research, and an introduction to memory - processes, myths and misconceptions, basic techniques. It contains numerous examples of memorizing lists, numbers, names, and faces. The chapter on study skills I found useful. But its relative lack of examples illustrating the application of mnemonic systems to complex, abstract material was frustrating.<br />The book progresses smoothly and logically. Higbee's style is clear and readable; though his analogies are awkward, the explanation of which often taking up more space than the concept they were meant to illustrate. Touted as a practical guide, I found it more of an introduction and a defense of the benefits of memorization - and a good one at that. Throughout he includes research supporting the effectiveness of the techniques he describes, references to other textbooks and guides, and explanations for why some material is remembered better than others. Higbee uses the first three chapters to dispel some common misconceptions of memory, such as the belief that it is a thing rather than a process, and to describe what memory really is and how it works. Chapters four and five form the core of the book. In these chapters the basics are described: meaningfulness, organization, association, attention, repetition, and context. The rest of the book is largely built on these principles. Higbee covers the Link and Story, Loci, Peg, and Phonetic mnemonic systems. Enough detail for each is given that, with practice, the reader can master them for memorizing things such as to-dos, names and faces, speeches, concrete facts, dates, and numbers. He tantalizingly mentions that they can also be used for memorizing material beyond facts and figures, such as abstract concepts, but fails to provide more than cursory instructions on how to do so. The instructions to substitute abstract words and ideas for concrete ones are well taken, but insufficient information is given on how to systemically apply memorization techniques while reading a history book, for example. Higbee also describes the synergy obtained combining some of these mnemonic systems.<br />I would recommend this book as a good starting place but with the proviso that it is not a workbook. Higbee himself stresses that efficiency in these techniques only comes with hard work and practice - but you will have to provide your own homework. It is also important to keep in mind that these techniques will not magically create a photographic memory (the existence of which Higbee largely dispels) nor will they prevent you from ever forgetting anything again. What you will get are processes for *improving* the chances of recalling needed information.	2004-06-13
US	51710172	R28OLVSEF4TFRQ	1594200122	969784645	Things Worth Fighting for: Collected Writings	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Well worth reading	Michael Kelly, Things Worth Fighting For: Collected Writings, is a compilation of works written by Kelly over a period of about fifteen years. I had not read any of his columns or essays before reading this book and, indeed, barely paid much attention to the announcement of his death covering the Iraq War as an embedded journalist. That was to my own detriment, as I think, after having devoured these essays, I would have enjoyed following his witty, sometimes graphic, occasionally grim, and always insightful writing. <br />The book is divided into sections generally covering periods such as the Clinton Administration, the Gulf War, the Palestine/Israel peace accords, the War on Terror and the Iraq War. There are also pieces on culture and society (including some short biographical works on Jesse Jackson and Chicago Mayor Richard Daley Jr.), and even some emails he sent to his family while in Iraq. Publication date and original source for each essay and column are at the end of the book ? I would rather that that information been included in the headings for each. There are enough of his writings collected in the book to get a sense of the man and even some hints of the evolution of his thoughts and attitudes. His writing style is fluid and succinct. I could just barely stop reading the book when it was time to go to sleep each night.<br />The most poignant, and graphic, of his writings included in this book are those covering the Gulf War. He started it having never seen the human and material costs of war first-hand and ended it believing that there truly are things worth fighting, and dying, for. Kelly describes the torture and murder that the Iraqi regime visited on Kuwaiti civilians sparingly but with enough detail that you are left wondering how such evil could have been allowed to survive the war without proper punishment. When reading his coverage of the Iraq War it is apparent that his experiences during the Gulf War informed his reporting and his attitudes.<br />Kelly?s writings about the Clinton Administration are interesting for the analysis of Bill Clinton the man. Clinton?s childhood environment explains, though it doesn?t excuse, some of his behavior. His mother?s outlook, ?taught, ultimately, that people are not to be judged by their actions, but are endlessly free to reinvent themselves?.Since ?what-ifs? do not exist,, one needn?t worry that the promise of the moment cannot be met in the future?.[and] Since the ?irrelevant? past does not really exist either, the actions of the moment cease to exist once the moment becomes the past, and cannot be held against one later.? As with his war reporting, the selections included in the book give a sense of the change his viewpoint underwent during Clinton?s terms in office ? going from a somewhat neutral analytical tone to weariness from, what he felt was, the incessant lying and prevarication of a man who should be impeached.<br />This collection is particularly interesting to me because I lived through all of the events covered ? as a spectator perhaps, but lived through it nonetheless. In some sense, Kelly helped me to look back and articulate what it was I felt during Bill Clinton?s terms as President of the United States, the Persian Gulf War, and September 11th. This book is well worth the time spent reading it.  I didn?t always agree with his assessments, but I found much to think about. And it is a fitting memorial for a journalist that I wish I had known during his lifetime.	2004-05-27
US	51710172	R2XWFF7FVGCO08	0860917975	727715242	The Coming of the Book: The Impact of Printing, 1450-1800 (Verso Modern Classics)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	A readable treatment of the spread of books and its affects	Febvre and Martin's, The Coming of the Book, is a scholarly work without the dry academic tone of a textbook. Having said that, this isn't a casual read, as the authors will provide some of the details of edition sizes, costs, and distribution. The authors themselves give the reason for the present work, \\"...we hope to establish how and why the printed book was something more than a triumph of technical ingenuity, but was also one of the most potent agents at the disposal of western civilization in bringing together the scattered ideas of representative thinkers.\\" In support of this thesis, Febvre and Martin spend a considerable portion of the book on technical issues such as the invention of the moveable-type press, how books were constructed, economic and social forces affecting the distribution and printing of books, and the geography of the spread of books. About the last third focuses on, \\"The Book as a Force for Change.\\"<br />The first three chapters are devoted to the introduction of paper into Europe, the technical difficulties associated with the invention of the moveable-type press in Europe, and the basic construction of the book. It is important to note that both paper and moveable-type presses were not unique to Europe - they were invented in China centuries before. However, aside from paper there is no direct evidence that the moveable-type press was imported; it seems more likely that it was an independent invention. The major problem facing inventor(s) of the moveable-type press was finding suitable materials and processes for the creation of metal type founts. Febvre and Martin devote relatively few pages to such enabling forces as the development alphabetic languages (Douglas McMurtrie in, The Book: The Story of Printing and Bookmaking, provides a more complete summary). But they do spend some time discussing processes in related industries that provided adaptable techniques - the use of clay moulds to make relief inscriptions and the use of brassdie-stamps by moneyers to strike coins to name two.<br />The next four chapters are devoted to the book as a commodity, the economic and social conditions affecting its production and sale, a short section on apprenticeships, and geography. Here the authors discuss the growth of book production into an international trade and its subsequent fracturing into more localized businesses, due in part to a series of wars and the increasing popularity of printed material in the vernacular. Febvre and Martin introduce the reader to the great printer/publishers of each age, Anton Koberger, Jean Petit, the Estiennes, etc.<br />It is the last, and longest, chapter that is devoted to how the book enabled some of the changes that occurred in Early Modern Europe. If there is one event that most readers will be familiar, it is the Reformation. Febvre and Martin discuss the distribution of Protestant literature and the ineffectiveness of the various laws and censoring edicts enacted in France, and other countries, with the intent to stem the spread of such material. But this chapter isn't limited to the Reformation. It also covers the effect of printing on Humanism and the knowledge of Latin and the classics and the effect on the development of modern European languages.<br />Throughout, Febvre and Martin provide details on the sizes of editions, and sometimes their geographic distribution, of the most popular works in each period; be warned though, the authors do not translate the French, Latin, Greek, and German titles. You can see how the increased availability of books led to social and cultural changes, which in turn led to changes in what works were produced, which lead...well you get the picture. As with many of the scholarly works I've read of late this one is also nearly devoid of illustration. It isn't a fatal flaw, but it would have been nice to include more maps and perhaps some images of incunabula. Though I haven't picked it up yet, The Smithsonian Book of Books lookslike it makes up for this lack with over 300 color plates. You can also, as I did, find plenty of images and the occasional map on the web. One thing I do want to point out is that the Verso paperback edition is rather fragile. After a single reading the book is falling apart. If you are more careful than I was, you can probably keep it together.<br />If you are interested in learning some of the details of the invention of the moveable-type press in Europe, the economics of early printing concerns, and some of the social and cultural changes books enabled I'd recommend reading, The Coming of the Book.	2004-05-16
US	51710172	R34BKRUYRTC50V	1580085415	257566027	What Color Is Your Parachute?: A Practical Manual for Job-Hunters and Career-Changers	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Highly recommended guide to improving your career	Richard Bolles',\\" What Color Is Your Parachute?,\\" has garnered a lot of praise, and sold not a few copies, over the years. I found the book easy to read, with simple, but useful, advice for the job-hunter. Like other books of its type, it contains a combination of exposition and exercises, or homework if you like; Bolles provides short-cuts for those who may already have the \\"answers\\" and step-by-step details for those who do not. Read it like you would a textbook and expect to be called upon in class to answer questions. Completing the exercises does take some time, but the few hours needed are a small price to pay.<br />Bolles writes in a down-to-earth, non-academic style. He is constantly hammering home a few points: the job-hunt may take a long time and be meet with failure after failure, which leads to giving up too quickly i.e. persistence pays off, the job-hunter should take no short-cuts and leave no stone unturned, if a particular strategy doesn't work pick another one, and that it is important to identify what your skills and interests are; none of this is particularly unique to this book. Bolles clearly makes a distinction between skills and traits, something not all books of this type do adequately. He provides alternatives when a particular approach fails to produce results. And above all he encourages while at the same time providing some realism.<br />The book is copiously illustrated. And ironically - I typically complain that publishers of non-fiction often leave out illustrations - this is my one complaint about the book, that the illustrations take up so much space and yet provide nothing but aesthetic value. A word of caution, that the author himself acknowledges, many of the Internet links provided are out-dated - either because the links are \\"dead\\" or because they have become fee-for-service sites instead of free. I have just started looking for that dream job, so my journey isn't over yet. But I would recommend this book to anyone seeking to improve their working life.mprove their working life.	2004-04-10
US	51710172	R37YIWIOPCCI1O	0060185163	725298314	God's Secretaries: The Making of the King James Bible	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Interesting and Insightful	The language of the King James Bible is both beautiful and powerful. Nicolson, in \\"God's Secretaries\\", writes an account both of the motivation behind and the translation process of this bible. To better understand why the translators choose the form of language they did you must first understand the mind-set of Jacobean England. And Nicolson spends much of the book at the task of describing this world. His imagery runs from the superb, \\"London was a sucking sink of iniquity, with something murderous and dissolving at the core\\", to the rather tedious, \\"...he is in many ways its hero; as broad as the great Bible itself, scholarly, political, passionate, agonized, in love with the English language, endlessly investigating its possibilities, worldy, saintly, sensuous, courageous, craven, if not corrupt then at least compromised, deeply engaged in pastoral care, generous, loving....\\" At first, I found it difficult to become involved in the story. It was somewhat the uneven style and somewhat the fact that much of the beginning is devoted to background. But persistence pays off. Nicolson's book, once he gets going, becomes interesting and enlightening, particularly when he finally gets to the Bible itself. The translators were a contradictory bunch of imperfect men. Lancelot Andrewes, one of the central translators, could be at once cruel and insensitive and devotedly passionate. With the available information Nicolson sketches in their lives, some in more detail than others. Because of the dearth of information he is only really able to write about a handful of the translators and there are gaps and holes in the history. But he is able tell enough of the tale that they become, if not alive, then reasonable facsimiles. Toward the end of the book he compares and contrasts various biblical passages from other translations against the King James. Nicolson's goal, and I believe he achieves it splendidly, is for the reader to get a sense not only of why the translators chosethe words and phrases they did, but how much more rhythm and richness is in the King James compared to Tyndale's et al translations.<br />Nicolson's preference for the King James Bible, and for Jacobean thought, is clear. Yet, even in his bias, he does provide some convincing arguments. Much criticism has been leveled at the accuracy and clarity of the translation. He acknowledges that it is fraught with error - particularly in the Hebrew sections. But with respect to the language itself, he contends that the translators spent much time arguing over the specific words to use. And their selection criteria included, among other things, richness of meaning and rhythm. Their translation was meant to replace the Bishops Bible and so to be read out loud during sermons. Modern day society tends to crave the specific, the exact. Jacobean England did not. And the translation reflects that. For Nicolson, the King James Bible still holds power and authority precisely because it hasn't been reduced to a common language and because it still retains a richness and drama that, for him, modern translations lack in their enthusiasm for exactitude. His answer to the criticism that the Tyndale Bible is the greater of the two since the King James Bible takes 80-90% of its material from Tyndale's earlier translation is that that 10-20% difference is what counts. Where Tyndale is clumsy and halting the King James is majestic, rhythmic, and powerful. He also points out that the translators did not set out to make something new, but rather to improve on what had already been done; and that this was to some extent driven by political motives. All-in-all Nicolson's analysis is interesting, biased and yet convincing despite that, and well worth the time to read.	2004-04-05
US	51710172	RVE8MLNZ7BUP5	0142000159	446043681	Brunelleschi's Dome: How a Renaissance Genius Reinvented Architecture	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A good place to begin	Bruneslleschi's Dome is Ross King's first non-fiction work. It is relatively short at less than 170 pages of main text - but it does contain plenty of notes at the end of the book. The building of the dome of the Santa Maria del Fiore church in Florence, Italy, is an interesting story. Fillipo Brunelleschi's design for the dome, and for the machines used to hoist the many thousands of tons of stone and marble to heights unheard of before, was simply ingenious. King points out that Brunelleschi departed from contemporary techniques in a number of ways and that the inspiration for some of them surely lies with classical Greek and Roman models. When the source is simply unknown, and when, in some cases, it is unclear precisely how Brunelleschi achieved what he did, King does a credible job of making a guess. Though there are illustrations throughout, they are generally small, always in black-and-white, and fail to adequately illustrate the engineering principals that King is trying to describe. And though he does include anecdotes about Brunelleschi's life he falls short of the colorful, lively portrait he paints of Michelangelo in his book, \\"Michelangelo and the Popes Ceiling.\\" Unlike the latter book, this book paints the political and social environment surrounding the subject matter in broad brushstrokes, adding more detail for the design and building of the dome itself. Consequently, it seems less like a full-length book than a very long essay. I enjoyed reading the book and you can see the beginnings of the style that King would use more successfully in, \\"Michelangelo and the Popes Ceiling.\\"	2004-03-23
US	51710172	R6S08L450SYG7	0375725539	538383465	Samuel Pepys: The Unequalled Self	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Wonderful Paean to a Talented Diarist and Administrator	Claire Tomalin is quite taken with Samuel Pepys, warts and all, comparing his Diary to the works of Milton, Bunyan, Chaucer, Dickens and Proust. She often calls him Sam in her biography, \\"Samuel Pepys: The Unequaled Self.\\" Less formidable than H.W. Brands, \\"The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin,\\" her biography is every bit its equal in verve and the sheer fun I had in its reading. It is more of a true biography than, say, Grazia's analysis of Machiavelli's political and social theories in, \\"Machiavelli in Hell\\" with details of his life included more for context than storytelling.<br />Many, including myself, are probably already familiar with Pepys in the context of his Diary. Indeed, I was first introduced to him in high school where I was required to read his accounts of the plague and the great fire in London. Robert Loius Stevenson compared the \\"fullness and...intimacy of detail...\\" found in Pepys' diary with another great self-examiner of a half-century before, Michel de Montaigne. Though Tomalin points out that the two were different in their approaches, and indeed Pepys probably was not even aware of Montaigne's work, she acknowledges that the writings of both contain a uniqueness not found in contemporary literature. <br />Her fascination with Pepys does lead Tomalin to forgive some of his more odious faults, painting them in soft-edges. But, in her defense she is also quick to point out his hypocrisy and does not shy away from the telling of his most shameful deeds. I think Barzun got it right in his book, \\"From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 To The Present\\": \\"It is a waste of breath to point out that every observer is in some way biased. It does not follow that bias cannot be guarded against, that all biases distort equally, or that controlled bias remains as bad as propaganda.\\" I think Tomalin's bias is not one of omission but rather one of feeling, rather like a mother's bias toward her recalcitrant son. She goes well beyond the Diary in digging into a past that encompasses no mean achievements for a tailor's son. She tells the story of this extraordinary life against the backdrop of an England suffering from civil and international wars and plagues without ever letting Pepys leave center stage. The man who had been the simple diarist I was introduced to in high-school, Tomalin transforms into a critical, and at times caustic, man of great administrative and oratorical talents. But for all of that he might have slipped into obscurity had it not been for the system of patronage that many great men of the past owe their lasting memory to. Her narrative loses some of its stride during the years after the Diary closes. It is unfortunately a period lacking in the personal reflections of the man himself since he chose not return to the Diary and we only know him through letters, official papers, and a couple short spates at new journals. Nevertheless, this biography is a worthy tribute to Samuel Pepys and one well worth the reading.	2004-03-20
US	51710172	RUN3YB5HLPXZ1	B000035X84	716920010	Lama Li Travel Journal Maroon Cover	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Unique Journal	The Lama Li Travel Journal must be one of the most unique blank journals I have found. I bought the larger 7x9 size and cannot believe how lightweight it is. It is covered in a heavy crinkled paper with a flap secured by an elastic band; the paper seems sturdy but not enough to withstand heavy abuse or the elements. The signatures (sections) are sewn together and allow the book to lie nearly flat when open. Inside are over a hundred sheets of slightly textured paper that has a soft almost fabric-like feel.<br />I was excited when the package containing it arrived. But to my disappointment I can't use it in the capacity I had intended, as a journal. The problem is that the paper cannot handle fountain pens or roller balls. I put a dot in the lower back corner of the page and it bled through to the backside and expanded to nearly twice the size. Ball pens or pencils are not option for me when it comes to journalling. Both lack the smooth and nearly effortless flow of a fountain pen. So keep that mind if you manage to find one of these journals.	2004-03-18
US	51710172	R1JYNMXBUD2F42	0786861614	40446301	Myst: The Book of D'ni	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Light-reading	Though I enjoyed reading, Myst: The Book of D'Ni, there are a number of problems with the story. The book itself is rather pretty physically, with gray parchment-like paper and embossed cover. It is well written in the general sense of being easy to read, having good dialogue, and a smooth flow throughout. The main problem with the book is that not much happens in the first two-thirds of it. Not until then does the primary crisis of the book appear. Prior to this there are a few minor challenges and even the death of a colleague. But the death is treated rather cursorily and the poor person makes his exit from the story without much memory of him afterward. When the crisis does come it isn't all that unique and Atrus, the main character, never seems to be in serious peril through most of it. The one or two points at which he, and his party, seem in danger of their lives the authors let them off the hook rather too easily. Those might not seem criticisms at all to some. David Gerrold's advice to writers in, Worlds of Wonder, is appropriate here: \\"[challenges/crises] require that the person at the core of the story grow teeth big enough to chew [them].\\" That is also how the reader grows. Atrus never really seems to have problems big enough to be interesting, or worthy of stretching his abilities to the utmost, until the end of the story. Even then the situation never really feels out-of-control - partly due to the fact that the crisis is somewhat of an overused device with the rather predictable \\"surprise\\" setbacks. I don't mean to be too harsh. The characters are likeable, and sometimes memorable. If you are interested in light reading, I could easily recommend this book.	2004-03-16
US	51710172	R9JZ8HN3COFWS	0375826688	342317933	Eragon (Inheritance)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A good start.	Eragon is the first novel in the Inheritance series and Christopher Paolini's debut as an author. It is a fine start for a young author and refreshingly devoid of the detailed political machinations and intrigues of the current crop of fantasy titles. Much less space is devoted to a detailed history of rulers and place and the politics of particular groups, nations, and cities than say George R. R. Martin's A Game of Thrones or Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time. The cast of characters is smaller and includes a dragon. All of which I found rather refreshing after the laborious reads of Martin and Jordan. Though it lacks depth, the book is an engaging read. The text is clear and free of the wordy prose of Janny Wurts.<br />Eragon moves forward rather swiftly - perhaps too swiftly. My problem with the Wheel of Time is that everything, including character development, moves at an excruciatingly slow pace. But Eragon tends toward the opposite. It seems as if Paolini is attempting to equip Eragon, the main character of the book, for the coming storm too quickly. How does he do it? By creating a character that becomes what he is more from some unique innate talent than effort. Eragon does have to work at it to be sure. However, Paolini has him learn to read, become a master swordsman, and a seasoned warrior in less than a year's time. Indeed, after besting Brom, his teacher, he is told that there are few in the land capable of matching his skill.<br />The idea of riding dragons certainly isn't unique - you have only to read Anne McCaffrey's books to know that. But it is a story element I like and I am delighted that Paolini has resurrected not only the idea but the mental bond between rider and dragon. Dragons and other magical creatures, like the elves and shades, are endowed with physical and magical powers far beyond not only what any human has but is able to achieve. Eragon is told, by Brom that in a contest with any of these beings he would be defeated. Paolini reinforces this throughout the book. The problem is that this makes Eragon's survival, and eventual victory, in a number of physical and magical encounters with a shade far less believable. Eragon has his own magical ally in the form of Saphira his dragon companion (who, incidentally, is conspicuously absent during Eragon's battles with the shade). And since the powers of a dragon aren't fully understood, even by them, it is easy enough to extract his hero from situations well beyond him through a mysterious power that seems to defy the rules of magic as explained by Brom. Paolini uses this crutch only a few times in Eragon; I hope it is used not at all in the next book.<br />Considering that the author was 15 when he started writing the book I think these criticisms are minor. He isn't a Michael Moorcock, Ursula Le Guin, or Robert Silverberg - at least not yet. He has potential and I will be reading the next installment in this series.this throughout the book. The problem is that this makes Eragon's survival, and eventual victory, in a number of physical and magical encounters with a shade far less believable. Eragon has his own magical ally in the form of Saphira his dragon companion (who, incidentally, is conspicuously absent during Eragon's battles with the shade). And since the powers of a dragon aren't fully understood, even by them, it is easy enough to extract his hero from situations well beyond him through a mysterious power that seems to defy the rules of magic as explained by Brom. Paolini uses this crutch only a few times in Eragon; I hope it is used not at all in the next book.<br />Considering that the author was 15 when he started writing the book I think these criticisms are minor. He isn't a Michael Moorcock, Ursula Le Guin, or Robert Silverberg - at least not yet. He has potential and I will be reading the next installment in this series.	2004-03-11
US	51710172	R3GJ5MPXPX57UF	0142003697	139671172	Michelangelo and the Pope's Ceiling	Books	4	8	11	N	N	A wonderful tale	Ross King's delightful book, \\"Michelangelo and the Pope's Ceiling\\" changed the way I see and think about the fresco painted on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel. Rather than a painting isolated from both its creation and its author I now see it as a painful four-year journey to create a masterpiece. Pope Julius II, who saw himself both as Caesar and Pope, Warrior and Spiritual Guide, commissioned Michelangelo to paint the vault of the Sistine Chapel in 1508 - some 12,000 square feet of lunettes, spandrels, pendentives, and curved spaces. It would be the largest fresco ever painted to date. Michelangelo abandoned work on the Pope's tomb some 2 years earlier for non-payment and had fled back to Florence fearing retribution from the Pope, a man called Il papa terribile because of his violent temper. He had misgivings about accepting the commission because he considered himself a sculptor, not a painter; the only painting he is know to have completed before this was the Holy Family for a friend. Amid his suspicions of a conspiracy by Donato Bramante to deprive him of the work and a strained relationship with the Pope Michelangelo began work on the fresco. Painting a fresco on a flat surface, let alone a curved one such as Sistine Chapel ceiling, was a complex and difficult task requiring experience to execute properly. It required such preparation as drawing the cartoon's that would serve as patterns, selecting pigments and mixing them to create the paint, covering the surface with an undercoat of plaster, and finally adding a layer of plaster onto which the artist which apply color while still wet. In the case of the Sistine Chapel, scaffolding capable of reaching the ceiling nearly 100 feet above the floor was also required. <br />Despite an inauspicious start - his first sequence, The Flood, needed to be redone, requiring about 4 weeks of rework - family problems, depression, a temper almost matching that of Il papa terribile, plague, and Julius' military campaign'sMichelangelo managed to complete the first half of the fresco by 1510, though he would have to wait until 1511, due to the Pope's wars and illness, to unveil it and begin work on the second half. Though painted by a man who claimed not be a painter the fresco was unveiled to great acclaim. And though Raphael's fresco's in the Pope's library were certainly more beautiful and showed a unity of composition that Michelangelo had not achieved, the fresco on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel was the more powerful, the more sublime. Having gained the necessary experience, work on the second half of the fresco proceeded more quickly. He even, in some cases, skipped the step of transferring the cartoon to the surface of the plaster and instead painted freehand. Again, family problems and war threatened the completion of his work. The second half of the Sistine Chapel contains some of Michelangelo's best work - particularly the paintings of The Crucifixion of Haman and The Brazen Serpent. The entire fresco was completed in 1512, four years after it was started. Pope Julius II would die in early 1513 and Michelangelo resumed the work on the papal tomb that had been abandoned six years before.<br />It is ironic that today Michelangelo's fame almost surely rests on the Sistine Chapel ceiling fresco - a virtuoso work created by a man who until that time had really only created sculpture. At a state funeral held after his death, Benedetto Varchi proposed that Raphael would have been the greatest artist that had lived - if Michelangelo had not existed.	2004-02-29
US	51710172	R18IG3KR6JZ9ZO	0802077072	256339171	Scribes and Illuminators (Medieval Craftsmen Series)	Books	4	29	29	N	N	A nice introduction to manuscript production	Christopher De Hamel's, Scribes and Illuminators is a short book, replete with illustrations, that I read in a single session. It is strictly an introduction rather than a scholarly work. Some topics are covered in more detail than others - the technique of illumination has more coverage than the selection and creation of miniatures or marginalia. The illustrations, in the main, are from medieval manuscripts and depict both the scribe/illuminator at work and examples of finished, and unfinished, pages. The pictures of unfinished pages are particularly useful in illustrating how the scribes and illuminators worked. There are some photographs of the tools used in manuscript production, but a few more would have been nice - especially of the frame used to sew the quires together. Some interesting facts embedded in the text are: parchment tended to curl toward the hair-side of the page because it shrank more, there were a significant number of women scribes, scribes would write around holes made accidentally during the creation of the parchment. Despite the brevity De Hamel manages to cover nearly the whole of manuscript production. And in that light the book is worth reading. However, if you are interested in the minute details of binding, calligraphy, miniatures, marginalia, and/or the tools of the trade you would be better off reading a different book.	2004-02-15
US	51710172	RXUVRB2TRACL0	1400033977	859727196	Vintage Sacks	Books	4	31	31	N	N	An introduction to Sacks	I heard Dr. Oliver Sacks speak on BookTV recently. What caught my interest was his obvious love for science and the warm, humoruos manner in which he presented the studies and experiments borne of his curiosity. Looking at the list of books he has written in the last 30 or so years I chanced upon, Vintage Sacks. Having never read any of his works before this anthology, of sorts, seemd like a good place to start.<br />The narrative literary form brings a &quot;human&quot; dimension to science and Dr. Sacks uses it to good affect. This is clearly seen in the selections from Awakings, Seeing Voices, and An Anthropologist on Mars. I found the selections from his autobiography, Uncle Tungsten, less compelling. Though, I must admit his categorizing of sulfur, selenium, and tellurium as &quot;stinkogens&quot; rather humoruos - especially given his penchant for experimenting with these odoriferous compounds and the resultant gas clouds. His retelling of the stories of his childhood on BookTV was far more endearing than the selections chosen from Uncle Tungsten. The addition of the selection from Migrain is rather puzzling. It is only 5 pages long and I can't really tell what purpose the book serves, or even the point he was trying to make. The rest of the selections are significantly longer - enough that you get a feel for the book and his style of writing.<br />In Seeing Voices he talks about the difference between postlingual and prelingual deafness - a distinction I never really thought about. In postlingual deafness, the affected individual was able to hear before becoming deaf and thus able to develop language skills. Someone who is prelingually deaf was either born, or became shortly after birth, without the ability to hear and so in the absense of remedial measures did not develop language skills. Here is what Dr. Sacks has to say, &quot;For the prelingually deaf, unable to hear their parents, risk being severely retarded, if not permanently defective, in their grapsof language unless early and effective measures are taken.&quot; I'm sure you've wondered, as I have, if given a choice, would you rather be blind or deaf. Dr. Sacks has made me rethink my position.<br />The selections from Awakenings bring to attention a malady of the early twentieth century that I had never heard of before: encephalitis lethargica, or &quot;sleeping sickness&quot;. The thought of being in such a &quot;trance-like&quot; state for decades is unnerving; able only to communicate is whispers and short sentences, unable to move much at all, must be horrifying. One of Dr. Sack's patients, Rose R., descibes, when asked what she is thinking about, &quot;Nothing, just nothing&quot; - and she meant it almost literally.<br />Overall this is a good place to start before reading his other books.	2004-02-14
US	51710172	R16NLHE1VADIZT	0198205287	973753917	Early Modern Europe: An Oxford History	Books	4	10	11	N	N	An Emminently Readable Survey of Early Modern Europe	Early Modern Europe is a survey of European history from the 16th to the 18th centuries. Its three parts, one for each of the centuries the book covers, are each a collection of three essays by period historians. Scattered throughout are numerous illustrations and a few maps; though, oddly, the origins of many of the illustrations aren't cited except in the List of Illustrations. With so many authors it can be difficult to maintain a consistent tone and theme throughout. I found the style of nearly every author in Early Modern Europe to be,  while not identical, at least similar enough that transitions between essays were fluid.<br />Perhaps to make this survey seem more like a narrative and less pedantic cited works for each essay are relegated to the back of the book. Also, I can't recall a single end- or foot-note. I would have preferred the bibliography to be placed with each essay and that the text to have been supplemented with footnotes. But lest that criticism seem too harsh I will say that the authors achieved the monumental task of reducing the historical fact, and conjectures, of three centuries into eleven relatively short essays (including the Prologue and Epilogue) without losing too much.<br />Anthony Pagden's, &quot;Prologue: Europe and the World Around&quot; was particularly interesting to me. This essay covers how the ancient Greek and Roman worlds, and the coming of Christianity, influenced the Europeans conception of themselves and their relationships to others. It explains, if only superficially, the European sense of &quot;unity&quot; and the belief in the superiority of Western Civilization; I use superficial not in its negative sense but to mean &quot;on or nor the surface&quot; i.e. the scanty 28 pages devoted to the subject can only be a survey rather than a critical analysis.<br />The other essays in the book cover the life of the masses, war, religion, politics, and economics. Such a range of topics gives you a general sense of the times.And that is really the power of this book - a framework in which to locate other more intense readings on the particulars.	2004-02-07
US	51710172	R1ZCQB10UXZ7TA	1400047943	402095546	The 5 Patterns of Extraordinary Careers: The Guide for Achieving Success and Satisfaction (Crown Business Briefings)	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Take Hold of Your Career	I read a short article about \\"The 5 Patterns of Extraordinary Careers\\" on the Internet and decided it might be worth reading. Most of the career \\"guides\\" I had read up to this time were of the, `choose your ideal career through completing a series of tests to identify your strengths' variety. But what intrigued me about this book was that rather than selecting the \\"right\\" career it was more about making the most of the career of you have. Still, Citrin and Smith do acknowledge the importance of being in a career that plays to your, \\"strengths, passions, and people\\" by making it one of the \\"patterns\\" of extraordinary careers; oddly, though, it is the last of the five rather the first. Perhaps one of my favorite quotes comes from this pattern, \\"...many people find, partway up the ascent, that their ladders were leaning against the wrong wall.\\" Again, though, this book is more about what to do with the your career once you have found the \\"right\\" one. And therein lies perhaps the most important maxim of this book, successful careers are managed, sometimes unconsciously, rather than driven by fate or luck; a corollary is that opportunities are created and actively sought after rather than passively waited for. Even the authors acknowledge that these ideas aren't new. But the patterns represent a distillation of the interviews and surveys of extraordinary executives conducted across Industry boundaries and they, perhaps, are new, or are at least fresh.<br />The core of the book is chapters 2 - 6, one for each of the patterns: Understanding the Value of You, Practice Benevolent Leadership, Overcome the Permission Paradox, Differentiate Using the 20/80 Principle, and Find the Right Fit. Citrin and Smith go on to extend the patterns to extraordinary organizations in chapter 7. They use specific examples gleaned from their interviews to illustrate each of the patterns. And while these examples are certainly condensed, in order to fit within the scope of a single volume, theygenerally, if not specifically and in detail, prove the point. What is less clear though, are how technical careers fall into these patterns. All of the chosen examples are CEOs, COOs, CFOs, CTOs, CIOs, presidents, vice-presidents, and perhaps a Director or two. Though they try to generalize these success patterns you are still left with the impression that extraordinary careers are, at least in part, defined by having entered the executive ranks. I am sure that Citrin and Smith would disagree, but I am still struggling with how to apply these patterns to my rather technical career of Software Engineering without becoming a manager.<br />Overall this has been a valuable book - if for no other reason than that it has caused me to think about my career in concrete terms and how I can actively manage it rather than waiting for it to happen. The book isn't overly long and can be read in a week during your lunch breaks. Thinking about your career and how to apply the patterns is where the hard work begins.	2004-02-01
US	51710172	R3THGT98ZVLHB2	0810937042	470657537	The Panorama of the Renaissance	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Visual Introduction to the Renaissance	Margaret Aston's, Panorama of the Renaissance is a nice visual introduction to the subject. The numerous pictures of sculpture, architecture, paintings, and books have served as a very useful companion to my other books on the Renaissance. There is only a single informational map (not including pictures of maps produced in this era) at the back of the book and the timelines are rather brief. You will need to look elswhere if these interest you e.g. The Cultural Atlas of the World: The Renaissance. The Biographical Dictionary at the end is nice; though I'd suggest using Who's Who: Europe 1450-1750 as a supplement.<br />This book is not a detailed treatise on the Renaissance. Nor do I think it was intended to be. Instead you will find a brief narrative running throughout the book, supplemented with a wealth of pictures, that gives a glimpse of what fuelled the Renaissance and how it affects us today. Scholarly books tend to be mostly text interspersed with a few line drawings or maps. It is easy to get lost in the words and The Panorama of the Renaissance serves as a visual reference or supplement to help get you back on the path. The narrative is somewhat too brief to stand on its on in my opinion but the pictures are often stunning.	2004-01-24
US	51710172	RONRNW9B4NVY5	039914255X	550174718	Eat Right 4 Your Type: The Individualized Diet Solution to Staying Healthy, Living Longer & Achieving Your Ideal Weight	Books	3	417	483	N	N	Does it work?	Let me get a few things out of the way before reviewing the book itself. I've been on the Blood Type O diet for 9 months now and have lost 30 lbs. To give you some background I started a new job in a new industry about 3 years ago and had gained nearly 25 lbs due to the long  hours and free snacks and dinners (which I ate because I was working 60-90 hours a week) - in addition to the 20 lbs I had gained since getting married almost 7 years ago. Both my wife and I searched for a diet that would work for the both of us. My sister and her husband had some success with the Atkins diet, but it seemed too stringent for us. It was my wife who suggested this diet and I admit to being sceptical.<br />After reading the book I searched the internet for further information about Dr. D'Adamo's research. Not much came up other than the &quot;official&quot; website. Does this mean that Dr. D'Adamo is wrong or that his book is just another diet clothed in new language? Perhaps, perhaps not. And therein lies a caution I would give you: be careful not to glorify this diet or Dr. D'Adamo beyond it, or his, relative worth. I've met many people over the years who have tried a variety of diets with varying degrees of success. Many tend to dismiss the diet if it doesn't work for them and, on the other hand, present it as the one-and-only true diet if it does work.<br />My criteria for deciding whether or not to try the Blood Type diet was twofold: 1) is it a radical diet that emphasizes one or two types of food to the exclusion of all else or does it recommend a balanced intake of a variety of foods, which in my opinion is the right way to go and 2) is it something that I can incorporate as a lifetstyle change rather than being a fad. In my opinion, and my experience, the answer is yes to both. However, I would also say that your success with this diet may be different as I believe a number of psychological factors are also applicable, to any diet e.g. willingness to follow a regime and arecognition of when it is ok for them personally to &quot;cheat&quot;.<br />The book itself provides information about the different diets and, in general terms, why they work. Dr. D'Adamo doesn't provide details of his research - though he does describe some case studies, again in general terms. While that isn't the purpose of the book the fact that you virtually can't find the information if you wanted it is a little disconcerting. It provides a few recipes, but you should buy the supplemental recipe books if you have trouble creating them on your own. The first three chapters cover general information about Dr. D'Adamo's approach and the next four cover diets for each blood type. Chapters on the individual diets give some background information and then a list of foods categorized as Highly Beneficial, Neutral, and Avoid. At least for the Blood Type O diet a list of the foods that encourage weight loss and a list of foods the contribute to weight gain are also given.<br />I gave this book 3 stars for a couple of reasons. The lack of further detailed information about the research leading to his conclusions and the contradictory categorization of foods that are beneficial, neutral, and to be avoided throughout the &quot;series&quot; of Blood Type books. The end results is that I have lost 30 lbs and have been able to keep it off. But I must also give myself some of the credit for being able to make the lifestyle change necessary to make it happen.	2004-01-24
US	51710172	R8Y8OARFSIE5K	1584502894	508914860	AI Game Programming Wisdom 2 (Game Development Series)	Books	4	31	31	N	Y	Another useful addition to the game developers shelf	All of the books in the Game Programming Gems and AI Wisdom series have been quite useful to me as a game programmer. AI Game Programming Wisdom 2 is a continuation of the Charles River Media series devoted to gaming issues. As with the rest of the series the articles are of varying lengths and detail. Many of the articles simply reference other articles in the series rather than basic or classic works in AI. So, this series is less useful as a bibliographic source. The topics covered in the articles are usually short and written at a high-level, but nonetheless very interesting and worth further research. And therein lies some of the frustration. It is often difficult to find more information about a particular subject since most of the references simply refer to articles in other books in the series, which are themselves are rather vague.<br />AI Game Programming Wisdom 2 is structured very much the same as the first book in the series. The articles are broken into similar sections, with the addition of a new section on finite-state-machines and splitting the section on learning into two. Having already covered the A* algorithm, its various optimizations, and navigation meshes in the previous books those topics are virtually absent here (though they may be buried as a secondary topic in some of the path-finding articles). I thought that the series had exhausted discussion of finite-state machines, but the editors managed to include a couple of interesting articles. The demand for more realistic AI behavior in character-based games in growing. And while a full simulation of emotions and human characteristics is unteneable, at the moment, there are some interesting ideas in the Learning section of the book e.g. &quot;Motivational Graphs: A New Architecture for Complex Behavior Simulation.&quot;.<br />I can't say that this book is indispensible from an implementation perspective. Most of the articles are simply too vague - though there are notable exceptions throughout the entire series of books. What I found most useful in these articles was that they stimulated thought and helped to generate discussion among the programmers and designers at work.ut the entire series of books. What I found most useful in these articles was that they stimulated thought and helped to generate discussion among the programmers and designers at work.	2004-01-24
US	51710172	R1MEUFWU8XAWCS	080761419X	272105053	Painted Prayers: The Book of Hours in Medieval and Renaissance Art	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Nicely Illustrated Volume of Books of Hours	The Pierpont Morgan Library's collection of manuscripts and printed works contains some truly beautiful works of art. I was privileged to see some of them at an exhibit in the Kimbell Art Museum. This book was offered as a catalog of the exhibit and I immediately bought it as a reminder of what I had seen. The illustrations in this book, though not quite as visually stunning, are nevertheless representative of the originals. Bibliographic information is rather sparse but the further reading section is nice.<br />Painted Prayers gives both the structure of the book itself and the reason behind its popularity during the late Middle Ages and the Renaissance. It was the laity in general, and more specifically the female laity, that owned these works as a kind of, &quot;direct, democratic, and potentially uninterrupted access to God, the Virgin Mary, and the saints.&quot; (p.14). It is fascinating to see the incorporation of Christian, and sometimes pagan, symbols and iconography, and even humor, in the miniatures and marginalia of the Books of Hours. The miniatures often depicted biblical, or historical, scenes in modern settings and dress. Patrons would often have their portraits, coats of arms, monograms, or intials incoprorated into the Books of Hours that they had commissioned. With the advent of printing in the 15th century Books of Hours, with their pictures, became even more successful as they could now reach out to a wider audience.<br />If you ever have the opportunity to see an exhibit featuring Books of Hours I recommend you see it. Failing that, Painted Prayers is a good stand in.	2004-01-24
US	51710172	RUGEBS9P2F763	041514728X	80952070	Who's Who in Europe 14501750	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Concise guide to the people of Early Modern Europe	Kamen's Who's Who in Europe is a 1000 entry guide to some of the most important figures of Early Modern Europe. The entries contain biographic and bibliographic information and in the main cover just enough to give an idea of the chief contribution(s) of each individual. Some entries, though, are slightly biased by the opinion of the writer. Phrases such as, &quot;erroneously believed&quot; should have been left out, except when the individual covered in the entry was clearly operating on misinformation. Compared to Grendler's six-volume Encyclopedia of the Renaissance Kamen's guide is rather slim. But, you can't throw Grendler's encyclopedia in a briefcase or backpack as a companion to whatever you are currently reading. I have found Who's Who in Europe useful and would recommend it to anyone studying Early Modern Europe who doesn't already have Grendler's work or needs something portable.	2004-01-21
US	51710172	RT1KZVDU90T0Y	0141439548	3653538	Middlemarch (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Very Enjoyable Novel	I bought the Penguin Classics edition (1994 version) because of the copious notes explaining language and references likely unfamiliar to reader's of today. These notes made reading Middlemarch a little more cumbersome, since they are at the end, but the added understanding made it worth the effort. Those interested in researching George Eliot's life and her other works should consider finding a copy of the Oxford Reader's Companion to George Eliot, John Rignall ed., Oxford University Press.<br />Middlemarch, recommended by a friend who knew that I enjoyed reading 18th and 19th century literature, was a difficult book to put down. I had just finished Charlotte Bronte's Jane Eyre, and prior to that all of Jane Austen's work. In comparison, Middlemarch seems to hold a middle ground between Bronte and Austin in terms of style. Where Jane Austen's text tends to be light and simple, Bronte's a bit heavy and complex, Eliot's Middlemarch is also complex but it flows like Austen's best works. Middlemarch isn't perfect - Eliot actually revised the ending because it contradicted earlier assertions. But it is definitely a great read and worthy of being on everyone's bookshelf.<br />Whether or not her depiction of early 19th century England is accurate I don't know. What I do know is that her characters are endearing in spite, or perhaps because, of all their faults, misunderstandings, and sometimes downright childish behavior. Eliot try's not to judge the actions of her characters by occasionally halting the story line and explaining them in what seems to be a neutral \\"scientific\\" manner; and I often found those explanations insightful and worth remembering (if only my memory would cooperate). Middlemarch, for me, stands with Jane Austin's work as one of the best novels I have read in a very long time.	2004-01-03
US	51710172	R1RYSHMLCPS9NG	0679743421	888165111	Machiavelli in Hell	Books	5	22	26	N	N	Niccolo and His Philosophy	Let me say first that I did not find this book difficult to read or comprehend, as some reviewers have implied it might be. It was, and is, a scholarly work, but Grazia makes the material lively, interesting, and above all understandable. Each thread in the tapestry that he weaves around the life and philosophy of Niccolo (as he calls him throughout the entire work) is discussed separately but folded back into the whole at regular intervals.<br />Grazia introduces us to Niccolo Machiavegli (Machiavelli in the Tuscan style) in Chapter 1, a figure often reviled in later ages. From Chapter 2 onward we are treated to an analysis of his works, political, social, and dramatic in the context of an overarching political philosophy. What I found most interesting about Machiavelli In Hell is the interleaving of Niccolo's life with this analysis. He becomes a person rather than the one-dimensional cutout we are often given in school texts - a man of feeling, ideals, and intelligence. With some persistence and careful reading you can it make through this book with a greater understanding of what Niccolo gave to later generations, or even his own. It is not a substitute for The Prince, The Art of War, or the Mandragola but an introduction.	2004-01-03
US	51710172	R3LKX871YYDZIM	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Good start for a very long series	Eye of The World is the first book in Jordan's Wheel of Time series. This book lays the foundation for his world and hints at the final battle that will end the eternal struggle of Light and Shadow. In a sense, the champions of this struggle are the same, at least in spirit, each time the battle is fought. Jordan is able to mesh ideas from fantasy, mythology, and religion into a coherent readable book. His style makes Eye of The World easy to read. The general flow of events is logical - even when the party is split and Jordan spends several chapters on each of the new groups. Character development is generally good; especially with Rand. There are times, though, when a characters connection to past events is not clear. For example, Mat's connection with Manetheren, other than the fact that he was born in what was once the Kingdom of that name, isn't made especially clear in Eye of The World (maybe he saves that for later). Moiraine's character is closed not only to the rest of the main characters, except for her Warder, Lan, but to the reader as well. Little of her past is revealed and at times she comes across as manipulative and uncaring - the ends justifies the means. Nevertheless, I like her and believe that she will turn out to have a heart after all. Egwene, Rand's sweetheart, and Nynaeve, the Wisdom of Rand's village, seem superfluous. I don't doubt that Jordan plans to flesh out their character's in subsequent installments of The Wheel of Time. Perhaps my biggest complaint is length. I've been reading fantasy and science fiction for over twenty years. In that time I've discovered some absolute gems, and not a few lumps of coal. None have ever been so long as this series; even Tolkien's Lord of the Rings pales in comparison. Not that length in itself is a detractor. But, I found myself scanning, rather than reading, entire paragraphs because they didn't seem necessary. Perhaps a decade as an engineer has shaped my need for brevity; there is some irony<br />there (brevity being 400-500 pages). In any case, Eye of The World is a good read. Hopefully I'll make it through the next seven or eight books; just a few more volumes and The Wheel of Time will rival The Encyclopedia Britanica in length and scope.	2001-07-03
US	51710172	R2V5KQJFIWO8P	0451451023	240777529	The Dark Tide (Iron Tower Trilogy) (Book 1)	Books	5	17	23	N	N	A Lord of The Rings Knock-Off?	You might think from my title that this will be a negative review. My rating for this book says otherwise. Let me first say, that over the past twenty years I have read, and re-read, The Lord of the Rings about seven or eight times. It remains the standard by which I judge all other fantasy. Other reviewers, including myself, have called The Iron Tower Trilogy a The Lord of The Rings cliff-notes. But perhaps a better appellation is, The Lord of The Rings companion. It is not as rich in detail and history as Tolkien's work. Nor is it quite as epic. But the story is every bit as compelling, every bit as gripping, and certainly as worthwhile a read. The language is awkward in places and not as polished. Does McKiernan's work stand on its own, apart from comparisons to The Lord of The Rings? I think so. As with The Lord of The Rings I found myself near tears at certain points and almost laughing aloud at others. Will you like this book? I don't know. But as a Tolkien fan of twenty years I loved it. I prefer to think of the Iron Tower Trilogy as a tribute to the genius of Tolkien; much like Moorcock's Kane of Old Mars was a tribute Edgar Rice Burroughs.	2001-06-13
US	51710172	R3LBGGKR4T39MN	0061054658	818740340	Ships of Merior (Wars of Light & Shadow, Vol. 2)	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Didn't make it through this book...	I am not sure quite how to review this book since I never actually  finished it. It took me over a month to come within 150 pages of the end. I  am not a slow reader and my interests are very broad. But I just could not  bring myself to continue reading this book anymore. What is so frustrating  is that I found the first book, Curse of the Mistwraith, so enjoyable; in  fact, I read it in two or three days. The concept of pure justice, as  embodied in Lysaer, in contest with nearly pure compassion (Arithon) is an  interesting plot.<br />   This series, The Wars of Light and Shadow, has  garnered much praise for Janny Wurts both on this site and elsewhere. And  while I agree with much of the praise for Curse of Mistwraith, the first  installment, I must disagree for Ships of Merior. This book is very  predictable. By itself that isn't necessarily a detriment. But it is also  slow. It sort of wanders its way through the plot. Her phrasing is awkward  at times. There doesn't seem to be anything new in terms of character  development. I was hoping to find out more about Dakar in this book. Maybe  that was relagated to the last 150 pages I couldn't make it through. His  increasing bitterness and anger toward Arithon is, unless I missed  something, inexplicable. And, predicatably, he keeps showing up at the  wrong time and place to spoil Arithon's plans. Maybe Dakar is Arithon's  albatross.<br />   Long books and series are the rage these days. Witness  Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series. Well written verse keeps the pages  turning and the reader engrossed, no matter the length. But many authors  just fill up space with words. Ships of Merior could have been reduced to  about half its wordage and still conveyed the basic plot without  sacrificing reader enjoyment.<br />   Despite this book I think Janny Wurts is  a good author. In my opinion, her best work is the Rift War Saga parallel  series written in collaboration with Raymond Feist.	2000-08-18
