US	51715049	R2CS4UDQT06CJE	0394756959	675515635	A Bell for Adano	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	An enriching tale	An enchanting saga about how a variety of characters react to a difficult time.  <br />An engaging view of a clash of cultures.  The vigorous American culture versus the age-old Italian culture.<br />An endearing cast of characters that will linger in your memory.  From peasant buffoons to wise old men.  From selfish to magnanimous.  From simple to sophisticated.  From despicable to saintly.  An amazing portait of humanity.<br />An enthralling quest of one Major Joloppo.  His attempt to return civility to an incivil world.<br />And it is all couched in a warm, humorous story line which will keep you interested to the last word.  Not a &quot;page-turner&quot; or thriller, but you will want to know what happens to the Major on his quest and how all of the characters either help or hinder him along the way.  <br />I was very glad I followed the advice of the other reviewers and read this book.	2001-04-30
US	51715049	RRSESK0KCAFQJ	0312969279	920366431	Lack of the Irish: A Mystery Set at the University of Notre Dame (Roger and Philip Knight Mysteries Set at the Univ. of Notre Dame)	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Serious and hilarious!	A classic, though not complicated mystery (I did not solve it --prior to the solution being revealed--even though it was right there in front of my eyes).<br />Delightfully human (and sometimes hilarious) characters.  A few malcontents you can love to hate, as well.<br />I have visited  ND only once briefly, so I'm sure a few of the &quot;in&quot; jokes escaped me.  I have enough Catholic friends and watch an occasional college football game, so much of the ND humor still was intelligible.<br />Incidentally, a serious look at some &quot;ecumenical&quot; religious topics.<br />A fun read that made me think a little, as well.	2000-10-23
US	51715049	RJF8XWH0TFYPS	1881955656	352609898	Products and Plans for Universal Homes	Books	3	36	38	N	Y	Maybe a good resource.	The title defines the scope of this book.  It is a list of home products  (cabinets, appliances, hardware, etc.) which support universal design.  It  also contains a number of plans which demonstrate UD (Universal  Design).<br />The list of products shows which UD aspects each product  features.  The list of products is pretty good, but had several lapses that  I noticed right away.<br />The plans tend to be on the high end.  The plans  are good but not extremely creative.  They are not very diverse in style  either.<br />Since the book is not expensive it is probably worth the  investment for the useful information in it.  Don't look for many idea  photos--they aren't here.  Although the author has featured numerous, nice  photos of one very high end showpiece UD house, it is not the kind of house  most of us will ever come close to building.<br />If you have made the  decision to go the UD direction, this book could help with the details.	2000-09-05
US	51715049	R2XE02GKGWZXWC	1887127011	342972133	Universal Bathroom Planning, Design That Adapts to People	Books	5	1	1	N	N	OOPs.	IGNORE MY REVIEW OF THIS BOOK.  IT WAS FOR A BOOK WITH A VERY SIMILAR  TITLE.	2000-09-05
US	51715049	R13D7TLDZ598Y0	1887127011	342972133	Universal Bathroom Planning, Design That Adapts to People	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good information, no inspiration	This book is a good resource for builders, architects or people building a  house.  <br />Universal Design DOES NOT EQUAL wheelchair accessibility and  this book makes that very clear.  Universal Design (hereafter UD)means  taking into account the best way to design for everyone, not just the small  percentage of average height, &quot;able-bodied&quot;, 20-50 year old  &quot;perfect&quot; people in the world.  This book also points out that  fewer people want to move in with their kids or into a &quot;home&quot;  when they get older.  So why build  houses that will prevent this from  happening?  <br />UD is about making things useable for people of almost all  physical conditions; sight-impared, mobility-impared, mentally-impared,  size-impared (short or tall), and even &quot;average, healthy&quot;  people.<br />This book makes it abundantly clear that UD is not difficult to  do on new construction.  UD does not have to add hundreds of square feet to  your plan.  <br />The book does not, however, have a lot of photos or ideas on  how to make UD attractive.  The small number of photos in this book are  small, black and white, and poor quality.  They do make their point, even  though they are not pretty to look at.<br />The book is FULL (almost cover to  cover) of diagrams and line drawings which show the possibilities AND  detailed requirements of universal design.  Many of the details are  wheelchair-oriented, but this is because wheelchair access is often the  lowest common denominator.<br />If you need to be concerned about UD or if you  feel that it is a smart thing to do (I firmly believe it is a smart thing  to do), then buy this book.  There are no pretty, inspiring photos to show  you how to do it beautifully, but there are tons of details to make sure  you don't do it wrong.  EVERY ARCHITECT AND BUILDER OUGHT TO HAVE A COPY OF  THIS BOOK.<br />(P.S.  Just think of the &quot;fun&quot; you would have in  your current house if you had to use a walker, wheelchair, or only one  hand.  What about even a broken leg?  You WILL more than likely get old  sometime. You could even be injured and become disabled (even if only  temporarily).  Do you want your house to be a barrier in that event?  UD  really should be something everyone thinks about, seriously!)	2000-09-05
US	51715049	R25IOEPYJAWD7G	0070499802	401190213	Universal Kitchen and Bathroom Planning: Design That Adapts to People	Books	4	37	38	N	Y	Information, yes.  Inspiration, no.	This book is a good resource for builders, architects or people building a  house.<br />Universal Design DOES NOT EQUAL wheelchair accessibility and this  book makes that very clear. Universal Design (hereafter UD)means taking  into account the best way to design for everyone, not just the small  percentage of average height, &quot;able-bodied&quot;, 20-50 year old  &quot;perfect&quot; people in the world. This book also points out that  fewer people want to move in with their kids or into a &quot;home&quot;  when they get older. So why build houses that will prevent this from  happening?<br />UD is about making things useable for people of almost all  physical conditions; sight-impared, mobility-impared, mentally-impared,  size-impared (short or tall), and even &quot;average, healthy&quot;  people.<br />This book makes it abundantly clear that UD is not difficult to  do on new construction. UD does not have to add hundreds of square feet to  your plan.<br />The book does not, however, have a lot of photos or ideas on  how to make UD attractive. The small number of photos in this book are  small, black and white, and poor quality. They do make their point, even  though they are not pretty to look at.<br />The book is FULL (almost cover to  cover) of diagrams and line drawings which show the possibilities AND  detailed requirements of universal design. Many of the details are  wheelchair-oriented, but this is because wheelchair access is often the  lowest common denominator.<br />If you need to be concerned about UD or if you  feel that it is a smart thing to do (I firmly believe it is a smart thing  to do), then buy this book. There are no pretty, inspiring photos to show  you how to do it beautifully, but there are tons of details to make sure  you don't do it wrong. EVERY ARCHITECT AND BUILDER OUGHT TO HAVE A COPY OF  THIS BOOK.<br />(P.S. Just think of the &quot;fun&quot; you would have in your  current house if you had to use a walker, wheelchair, or only one hand.  What about even a broken leg? You WILL more than likely get old sometime.  You could even be injured and become disabled (even if only temporarily).  Do you want your house to be a barrier in that event? UD really should be  something everyone thinks about, seriously!)	2000-09-05
US	51715049	R3VVRHMJ8O768Q	1561583197	241675291	Kitchens That Work: The Practical Guide to Creating a Great Kitchen	Books	5	88	89	N	Y	Start with this book!	If you are remodeling or building a new house this is the kitchen book to  start with.<br />What it is: a kitchen design book that covers everything from  floor plan layout to appliances to decorating to the plumbing, heating,  cooling, etc.<br />What it is not: a nuts and bolts &quot;how to&quot; book.   A picture idea book.<br />I was fortunate to begin with this book.  It covers  every angle of kitchen design so I really had to think of everything when  planning my new kitchen.  I haven't built it yet but I feel very confident  about my design because of the details this book made me account for.<br />For  most people this book could be the single purchase necessary.   This book  covers the varying levels of needs that kitchen users have.  If the kitchen  is just a place to have coffee and warm up soup or restaurant leftovers, or  if you are a family cook, the design basics you need are here.  If you are  a serious cook who entertains a lot, like me, you may need to add other  resources to your library.  Or if you want a show-piece kitchen, you may  need to go further than this book.  Whatever style of kitchen you are  creating START here, then go to other resources if you need to.<br />Good  pictures (and quite a few of them), though like I said it is not a picture  idea book.  Text is prosey and easy to read.<br />Very highly recommended.	2000-08-12
US	51715049	R1N1YJ3SYG8ARH	1561581615	580091269	The Kitchen Idea Book (Idea Books)	Books	4	57	59	N	N	Good for what it is	I won't repeat what so many other reviewers have aptly said: that it is a  wonderful book with beautiful photos and good ideas.<br />My comment, or  criticism, is for readers who are serious cooks (i.e. they cook frequently  for more than 2 or 3 people, and when they cook it is not just  &quot;microwave&quot; or &quot;instant&quot; cooking).  The book does not  help much in dealing with design issues from the perspective a a serious  cook.  There are many ways modern kitchen design can be improved for  serious cooks, but this books does not sufficiently address them.  This  book is great as far as it goes, but if you are serious about cooking you  might want to tap some other sources as well.	2000-08-11
US	51715049	R3LPYITC09ZKFG	0140248110	540734984	Kitchens for Cooks: Planning Your Perfect Kitchen	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Kitchen solutions: yes and no	The author's preface gives you the most concise description of this book:  it is a &quot;how-to-think-about&quot; book.  It is design book.  It is  meant for people who really cook in their kitchens and would like the  kitchen to support--not hinder--their cooking efforts.  This book is not  for microwave cooks or folks who want a &quot;show-off&quot; kitchen.  The  author asks many questions about current kitchen design standards.  She  also offers many possible solutions to the questions she poses.<br />There are  a number of things which make this book valuable:  1) most home-builders,  architects and even many kitchen designers are not real cooks hence their  designs do not usually work well for cooks; the author is a cook and that  perspective influences the whole book.  2) The author considers the kitchen  not only as a gathering place but as a place in which it is very likely  that there will be more than 1 person working (2 cooks, children helping  mom and/or dad, guests, etc.).  3)  The author realizes the need for  kitchen to fit to their users.  4)  The author tries to shed light on  making the kitchen flexible.<br />Some of the many kitchen standards the  author questions (and offers solutions for) are: the kitchen triangle,  single counter height, countertops made of one product (e.g. all laminate  or all solid surface), traffic flow, realistic appliance usage, cabinet  types and many others.<br />I do not necessarily agree with her  WET/DRY/COLD/HOT solution to the kitchen triangle but it was a useful tool  in thinking about kitchen design.  <br />Probably the most useful aspect of  the book is that it made me really think about how we use the kitchen and  how it could support our work and fun in it.  Also extremely useful was the  look at a number of real kitchens used by real cooks (chefs, cookbook  authors, etc.).  The photos, though they were not coffee table book  quality, were very helpful in seeing actual examples of some of the  suggested solutions.<br />The text is as boring as a high school textbook, but  this book is not meant to be a novel.  The are a some hokey  &quot;green&quot; suggestions, but some are at least a little valuable in  making one think about environmental issues.  Unfortunately, the author  glosses over the most important environmental solution: a well-designed  kitchen is one that is not wasteful.  It will not waste appliances (e.g.  having unused appliances or having appliances that are too large or  powerful for what you need or vice versa).  It will not waste electricity  in ineffective lighting; task lighting is energy efficient.  Unused  extravances are a waste of building supplies. Etc.  <br />As to the reviewer's  comment that this book is a &quot;green&quot; tract, I disagree.  I am not  &quot;green&quot; by any stretch of the imagination; I simply believe in  sensible, realistic care for the environment we live in.  The book does not  spend that much time on &quot;green&quot; issues: most of the text and  illustrations are about DESIGN issues.  As I mentioned above, there are  some hokey green suggestions, but they are really pretty much in one  chapter.  You can probably just skip most of the environmental  stuff.<br />It's not a perfect book, but it is worth the price if you are a  cook who needs a better kitchen.  On you own, it is not likely that you  will have thought about everything that the author has.<br />I found it a very  useful book in coming up with the design of my new kitchen.	2000-08-11
US	51715049	R25UNMRNGTC7FE	1561583138	388601714	The Bathroom Idea Book (Idea Books)	Books	4	47	48	N	N	A good starting place for design	This book is has a lot of photos of bathrooms.  Very many styles and sizes  of bathrooms are featured.  Many different color/decor schemes are  pictured.  Many different fixtures, baths, showers, etc. can be seen on  these pages.  What I found most inspiring were the less traditional  bathrooms (even some rather tiny ones) that really showed some creative  design aspects.<br />The text is rather average for this sort of book,  basically it explains the many options that are available.  It's nice to  have this info in one place, but there were no radical insights.  This book  is chiefly a picture/idea book.<br />I was very pleased that Universal Design  got more than a nod by the author.  Several baths featuring universal  design principles were pictured and diagrammed!  Being a wheelchair user  myself, I wish more people who built homes thought even for a few minutes  about incorporating a little universal design into their homes.  <br />I wish  there were more bathroom plan examples.  I wish there were more diagrams  indicating possible and practical dimensions for standard bathroom layouts.   There is no how-to install or remodel information in the book (but that's  OK because it is supposed to be an &quot;idea&quot; book).<br />I'm building a  new house and I keep returning to this book to scan the pages for ideas,  color schemes, etc.  I just wish there was a bit more technical information  to make some of the final design decisions easier.  I had to consult other  books and the internet on a number of issues before I made the final  floor-plan layout decisions.  So, if you want ideas, this book is a  great(!) starting point.  If you want more technical details you may need  to look elsewhere.	2000-08-10
US	51715049	R3JHNQ147P79L7	1576734161	645899063	Pursuit and Persuasion (Ben Reese Mystery)	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Ms. Wright's style is maturing	I don't read a lot of mysteries, so I compare them more to other things I  read (novels, literature, history, etc.).  With this work Ms. Wright's  style moves more toward what I consider a novelistic style.  Not only is  there the usual mystery plot and the clues along the path to the solution,  but there is a whole story of characters and their relationships.  Ms.  Wright's other works have a good eye for detail and a nice sense of  character, but this one delves further into personalities and their  interactions.<br />The suspense carried me into the intriguing world of a  number of people.  The delightful interplay between the English, Scottish  and American characters and their eccentricities fleshed out the mystery.   Not to mention the charming tour of Scotland that I was taken on.  <br />All  in all a fine work.  Not great by &quot;novel&quot; standards, but I judged  this as a mystery, since that is what it is.	2000-08-07
US	51715049	R31ETCYTTJYYUR	1556709846	136159912	Bugialli on Pasta	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Purity and beauty	Bugialli is ever the purist in his pusuit of good, authentic and classic Italian recipes. <br />Many of these recipes occur in variations in other cookbooks, but Bugialli has done his research and work with regard to the  recipes.  The research was done in finding the purest and most traditional  (and best) ways of preparing them.  The work was done in adapting the  recipes so they will succeed for N. American cooks.<br />There is incredible  variety in the recipes! Pasta with all manner of vegetables and meat and  cheese.  There are even some tomato sauces.  Many of the recipes are quite  simple; some are quite complex.<br />Most recipes have a preface with notes on  history, tradition, cooking tips, etc.  There are illustrations  demonstrating most of the important techniques.  The recipes are organized  by major ingredient (other than pasta, such as vegetables or cheese).   There is also a section on notable regional pastas, though all the recipes  that are in the other sections designate the region(s) of their origin.   <br />Also, there are many beautiful, full-color photos of many of the recipes  and of scenes in Italy.  The paper is heavy and resilient (not many books  use this fine grade of paper!).<br />I have been very pleased with the results  so far.  The Bucatini all' Amatriciana was possibly the simplest recipe I  have encountered for it, yet it tasted the best: it is the recipe I will  make from now on.  There is a surprisingly good mushroom-meat sauce  (complex, deep flavors).  The marinara sauce is simple to make but very  good.  Etc. Etc.  <br />One criticism I have is that the pictures of the  techniques are not necessarily near the recipe(s) they pertain to.  It is a  minor annoyance to have to scour the book looking for the pictures (did I  miss some reference to the page they were on?)<br />If you love pasta and wish  to explore it through fine Italian recipes, this book would be my first  choice.  If you just want a really good starter book onpasta, this one  fits the bill for that, too.  This book is destined to become a classic on  the subject.	2000-07-10
US	51715049	RXIXHBXNS0IZL	0936184388	360661070	The Best Recipe	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Tradition + Research + Science	I will try to say something that other reviewers haven't already said.<br />There are 4 things that elevate this cookbook above so many others:  1)  Recipe testing.  The editors do their research in finding most (if not  all) of the possible ways a certain dish has been prepared. Then they test  them to find which is the best.  They often invent their own best recipe as  a hybrid of the recipes they found in their research.  2)  The  author(s) state the objectives for the results of a recipe.  They let you  know what goal they have in mind with each recipe.  You may disagree with  their goal, but they do a good job of finding (or creating) the best recipe  to meet their objective.  3)  The recipes explain the process that was  gone through to come to their &quot;best&quot; result.  You won't have to  repeat any of their trials (or errors) in your own cooking.  4)   Technique is as important as the list of ingredients.  There are many  &quot;simple&quot; recipes here, but if a cook does not know the best way  to prepare the basics--the building blocks--then all the embellishment in  the world will not really cover up the bad pie crust or the over-cooked  meat.<br /> This book has become a sort of cooking bible for me.  When I  find a recipe from another source, I frequently consult The Best Recipe to  see if there isn't some light it can shed.<br /> I can rattle off a list  of techniques and recipes which have become &quot;absolute&quot; in my own  kitchen (the angel food cake, grilled prok tenderloin, the brined chicken,  the hard-boiled egg technique, etc.), but the list would be too long to  include in this review.<br /> As to some reviewers' comments about the  salt+pepper+meat or &quot;meat and potatoes&quot; recipes, they are  somewhat true. However, I would estimate (from scanning the book) that 75%  of the &quot;basic&quot; recipes include variations in seasonings,  ingredients or sauce.  Sometimes they include 3 or 4 variations.  And there  are plenty of Italian, French, Asian, Mexican, etc. flavors in the book to  keep your taste buds from being bored for a long time.  <br /> I think one  of the most frustrating aspects of so many cookbooks is that the recipes  often do not produce satisfying results.  In these cookbooks the list of  ingredients or photos may be appealing but the actual result is often a  &quot;mistake&quot; I will not repeat.  &quot;The Best Recipe&quot; has  almost always produced satisfying results for me (and my table guests).  So  far I have only found one recipe I will not repeat, and that was probably  due to my personal taste (the recipe did turn out as they said it would).   I wish every cookbook I owned had a success rate like this one!	2000-06-26
US	51715049	RQ66ONFQA5K12	0936184388	360661070	The Best Recipe	Books	5	138	141	N	N	Tradition + Research + Science	This book makes substantial claims in its title.  But the authors have a reason for their claims.  This is not a book of recipes from one person's (subjective) viewpoint.  Almost all the recipes were &quot;arrived at&quot;  by a common process.  1.  Collect various, diverse and classic recipes for  a given dish.  2. Prepare the various recipes.  3.  Test the results  (usually results are tested by a substantial panel)  4.  If applicable,  consult food scientists regarding certain chemical or physical reactions or  properties.  5. Produce a recipe which combines everything learned from the  process. The result is a recipe which tastes best to most people.  <br />What  also results are several benefits to the cook: 1) The recipes are often  steamlined (if a traditional or classic technique does not produce flavor  it is jettisoned).  2) The recipes usually revolve around a core technique  that can be applied to other dishes in a cook's repertoire.  3) If the cook  takes time to read all the work done by the editors he will be able to  avoid many &quot;mistakes&quot; in his own experimenting.<br />As to the  reviewer's comment about so many meat+salt+pepper recipes, I believe he  missed 2 things: 1) nearly all the recipes of that nature have significant  seasoning/ingredient variations after the basic recipe, 2) the point of  these recipes was the TECHNIQUE.  When I was a neophyte &quot;gourmet&quot;  I liked long recipes with complex techniques.  Now that I'm older (and  wiser) I can ALSO appreciate plain chicken or beef which truly have been  well-cooked.  But this book also gives you variety as well--there are  Italian, Mexican, French, Asian, etc. flavors here along with the American  standards.<br />Having tried very many of these recipes I agree that they are  usually &quot;best&quot;.  My family and friends also agree.  The chicken  brining technique and the hard-boiled egg recipe have become absolute in my  own cooking.  In the short time I have owned it, thisbook has seen more  use than many of my old favorites because the results are so reliably  &quot;the best.&quot;	2000-06-20
US	51715049	R1J2XM5V13ZSCU	0804110336	107288819	Unto the Sons	Books	5	10	12	N	N	An epic tale	This is a sweeping epic about an Italian family.  Gay Talese has a rich family history and he tell's their story (in a way it is his story) with the voice of a novelist.<br />There are many characters who might appear  uniteresting if we were to &quot;meet them on the street,&quot; but  Talese's ability to get under their skin, as it were, gives them  individuality, personality and humanity.  And this is the story of the  characters: it is not contrived by the author--though, of course, he  tailers their stories to fit HIS book.<br />This is not a romanticized tale.   Sometimes it is dark, with stern, superstitious ancestors and bleak events.   Yet when it was over I felt a warmth for most of the characters in  it.<br />This is the epic of many Americans.  My own ancestors had many  similar experiences.  My ancestors are fairly recent German and Swedish  immigrants, but much of their story is the story of the Talese family.  It  is the story of our own individuality striving against our heritage and  either coming to terms with it or rejecting it.<br />Gay Talese has helped my  understand myself in terms of my own heritage through this excellent book.	2000-06-07
US	51715049	R1JOYSU4IFWLP0	0847819264	305151725	Cooking of Parma	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A nice regional cookbook	Authentic Italian cooking is regional.  This cookbook gives you a chance to &quot;taste&quot; Parma.  The food of Parma, as presented in this cookbook, is rich and diverse.  The recipes are generally easy to follow  and use ingredients easily obtained by the USA cook.<br />I did find lapses in  several recipes where a certain step or procedure was assumed (or was it  unintentionally omitted?).  The recipes I have done have been successful  and flavorful.<br />I love cookbooks that give you more than just recipes:  they teach you about cooking, culture, and people.  While this is not as  good as some of the best regional cookbooks, it is certainly does teach  about the cuisine and culture of Parma (and a bit about the USA where the  author lives).  It is a worthy addition to the regional cookbook genre.	2000-06-07
US	51715049	R2277ZKNDMWLLC	0028623355	949808963	Nick Malgieri's Perfect Pastry: Create Fantastic Desserts by Mastering the Basic Techniques	Books	5	37	38	N	N	I use this book frequently!	When I get ready to bake something, I generally consult this book first.  It is organized well and provides all the basic techniques (as well as some advanced ones), that I need for probably 75 percent of the baking projects  I do.  Even if I don't use Nick's recipes I use the techniques that are in  the book.  The techniques are explained well, with good pictures to support  the text (or vice versa).  I also can make my own creations built on the  building blocks in this book.  I even take the ideas, recipes, or flavor  combinations from other sources and modify them so they use Nick's  techniques or proportions or components.<br />98 percent of everything I've  tried from this book has worked and tasted good (usually very good or  excellent).  This is a cookbook classic.	2000-06-07
US	51715049	R2WOUW1II06CX5	0688115942	171853995	A Passion for Piedmont: Italy's Most Glorious Regional Table	Books	5	9	10	N	N	I have a Passion for Piedmont now as well	In my library of regional cookbooks this one ranks at or near the top.  It combines recipes with information about the food, the people, the geography, etc. to give you a &quot;feel&quot; for the region.  The only  thing that could have made it better would have been some full-color photos  of Piedmont.<br />The recipes are excellent.  I have tried many of them with  great success.  My table guests have been very pleased with the results.  The book does give a generous treatment to white truffles (I'm sure I will  buy one some day), but there is a wealth of other Piedmontese treasure  unearthed in this book.  There is a wonderful variety in the recipes for  antipasti, pasta, risotti, meat, and poultry.  Also, I will certainly be  braver in my selection of Italian, especially Piedmontese, wines because of  this book.  I have had several parties where the menu was just the  antipasti from this book, and my guests loved the results.  <br />Great  recipes which are easy to follow and use easy-to-find ingredients (with a  few truffly exceptions).  A great glimpse of a great culture and a great  cuisine.<br />Matt Kramer has a Passion for Piedmont.  I have a Passion for  Piedmont too, because of his book!	2000-06-07
US	51715049	R9WHWW49LRTLZ	0395595118	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Real Collection Piece	I originally read The Hobbit and The Lord Of the Rings in an old paperback edition.  I immediately fell in love with Tolkien's Middle Earth, its characters and the incredible plot he created.<br />I am now on my third  reading of the cycle. I came back to it after leaving it on the bookshelf  for many years (I like to forget many of the details so the book has a  certain freshness when reread).  To my amazment the book still has much  more freshness than I expected.  This time through I am seeing so much of  Tolkien's genius in the genre of fantasy: he created a whole world with  geography and history and complexity, and he makes it really  &quot;work&quot;.  Much other fantasy is weak in this area: the created  worlds just don't work all that well.  Tolkien's regions and cultures have  a depth that puts them a quantam leap above those of standard  fantasy.<br />Also, many of Tolkien's characters are round and deep.  I  actually thought them rather cardboard on my first reading, but this time  through I begin to see that though Tolkien uses certain stereotypical  character types, he fleshes them with an interesting life all their own.  On my first read I thought the hobbits were the most intriguing of  Tolkiens' characters.  I find them even more intriguing this time through.  I also found MUCH more depth in the elves and dwarves, who seemed VERY  stereotypical on the first read.  I think I was so engrossed by the plot on  my first time through I did not pay much attention to the  characters.<br />This book is one everyone should read at least twice.  It is  a modern classic.  Those who shun fantasy because of it being  &quot;unrealistic&quot; need to read this book so they can learn about a  different kind of realism.<br />The specific things I enjoy about this  hardcover edition are the maps and the artwork.  It includes Tolkien's  original maps, which are better than the ones in my old paperback edition.<br />And as for the illustrations: Alan Lee's works are masterful.  He pays  great heed to Tolkien's details so that his pictures don't contradict the  text; though I found a few minor discrepancies (which could be errors in my  own imagination).  His detailed and beautiful watercolors gave more  substance and shape to my own images of Middle Earth and its inhabitants.  My only criticism is that I find Tolkien's world to be more solid than Alan  Lee's.  Mr. Lee's version of Middle Earth is more etherial and less earthy  than Tolkien's.<br />Tolkien's Lord of the Rings is his magnum opus and it is  a great book for ALL TIME.  This edition with the original maps and the  masterful artwork of Alan Lee will be a treasure I hope to pass on to a  future generation.terful.  He pays  great heed to Tolkien's details so that his pictures don't contradict the  text; though I found a few minor discrepancies (which could be errors in my  own imagination).  His detailed and beautiful watercolors gave more  substance and shape to my own images of Middle Earth and its inhabitants.  My only criticism is that I find Tolkien's world to be more solid than Alan  Lee's.  Mr. Lee's version of Middle Earth is more etherial and less earthy  than Tolkien's.<br />Tolkien's Lord of the Rings is his magnum opus and it is  a great book for ALL TIME.  This edition with the original maps and the  masterful artwork of Alan Lee will be a treasure I hope to pass on to a  future generation.	2000-06-05
US	51715049	R15Z0XNDSX1KW2	0764151592	373854253	Regional Italian Cuisine	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A wonderful introduction to Italian cuisine	This book is an excellent way to learn about the regions of Italy and the styles of cooking done in those regions.  There are maps, essays, recipes and pictures to teach you about the cuisines from the various regions.  The  author divides Italy not by political boundaries, but more by culture and  geography.  For instance several political regions (Lombardy, Veneto,  Emilia-Romagna) are covered in the section on cuisine from the Po River  valley.  Though Lombardy appears again in the section on the Mountain  region (Lombardy, Piedmont, Trentino, etc.) cuisine.  Though a bit  &quot;contrived,&quot; this scheme divides cuisine styles into cohesive  groups.  A map shows the authors &quot;regions&quot; overlaid onto the map  of the political regions.<br />There are not as many recipes as in some other  Italian cookbooks (Hazan, Bugialli, etc.), but the ones that are present  are fairly representative of the region being covered.  And there are color  photos of every recipe!  Most of the recipes give you a sense of the  essence of that &quot;region's&quot; cuisine.  Plus each &quot;region&quot;  has an introductory essay describing its chief culinary products and  styles.<br />It has taken me years to get a clue about the essences of cooking  from various regions of Italy.  I have gained bits here and there from  cookbooks, articles, maps, travel guides, etc. (And I have collected a lot  of material over the years.)  This book confirmed much that I had already  learned &quot;the hard way,&quot; and it taught me more.  Granted all of  the information about Italy and the over 60 Italian cookbooks I own cannot  be distilled into one volume, but this book does an excellent job of  introducing you to the complex and somewhat confusing array of  &quot;Italian&quot; cooking.  If you are new to Italian cooking this is a  great book to help you understand that there is no national  &quot;Italian&quot; cooking style, but a variety of regional styles.<br />Most  of the recipes will be relatively easy for the USA cook, though there are a  few with ingredients that will require a visit to a specialty store or  butcher.  Many traditional techniques are simplified to make the recipe  easier without sacrificing much in the way of authentic taste.<br />You will  need to know some general cooking techniques that are not completely  explained in this book.  However, most recipes are fairly  straight-forward.<br />This is THE BEST intro to Italian cooking I know of.   When you graduate from here you will have a good foundation of  understanding to take you on to Hazan, Bugialli, Bastianich, etc.  If you  DON'T care about understanding the regions and their cuisine styles, then  skip this book.	2000-05-18
US	51715049	R1IMD56492PGQ3	0345425898	903124931	Pride and Predator (Ben Reese Mysteries (Ballantine))	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Sally does it again	She informed me and delighted me again!  <br />Intriguing plot and characters.  A fine setting. And a decent mystery to boot!  <br />I had never thought of Scotland as a possible travel destination.  Maybe after her  depiction I might consider it.  Not that she romanticizes it, she obviously  just loves it because it is lovable.  Plus there were so many amusing and  beguiling Scots that I had the pleasure of meeting.  Not to mention the  depths of the human heart that I had to ponder when reading this (I thought  I knew who the murderer was, but I really didn't want to believe it was who  I thought it was--so I had to ponder my own heart's depth as well).<br />I  rarely reread mysteries, but I will return to this one again sometime.   There's more to this than I could get on one time through.	2000-05-18
US	51715049	R2V98F07KXQHNY	081291838X	68781546	Fine Art of Italian Cooking	Books	5	42	43	N	N	A Classic Italian (Florentine) Cookbook	My main quibble with this book is it's title.  It isn't really a book about &quot;Italian&quot; cuisine as a whole, but about Florentine cuisine with a generous salute to cooking from other regions and cities.  A solid  majority of the recipes and comments are, self-admittedly, about Florentine  cuisine.  Having said that, this is still an excellent book brimming with  recipes.  As with most of Bugialli's books the recipes occasionally require  difficult to find ingredients (potato starch, bitter almonds, etc.) usually  without suggesting an acceptable compromise for US cooks.  On the whole,  however, the recipes are generally very accessible to US cooks.  And, so  far, every one I've tried has been a success.  It's not a book for neophyte  cooks, as there are times when certain techniques are assumed.<br />There are  no full color photos as in some of Mr. Bugialli's other books.  THERE ARE  many simple, basic Florentine and Italian recipes that help you understand  that much Italian cooking is based on simplicity, good ingredients,  wonderful flavors, and a certain refinement, elegance and finesse that is  the essence of Italian cooking.<br />I personally find all the information  from the Florentine perspective very interesting. I plan on doing several  dinner parties based on purely Florentine recipes, just because this book  has inspired me to do so.	2000-03-13
US	51715049	R1B79HG7OXV8ME	034542588X	230712702	Publish and Perish (Ben Reese Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	5	20	25	N	N	A classic mystery	To my mind there are two kinds of mystery writers.  Those who like characters, plot, details, language, science, society, etc.  And those who write a book simply to keep the reader turning pages in suspense, waiting  to find out whodunnit.  Sally is of the first type (not that I was inclined  to put the book down as the plot developed).  Her characters are round, her  plot is intriguing, her prose is enjoyable to read.  She is also a classic  mystery writer in that she gives the reader the clues so they can solve the  mystery along with (or possibly before) the hero does.  I found myself  going back and rereading passages for clues that had escaped me the first  time I had read them.<br />From an interview I read, I know that Ms. Wright is  a Christian. This book, however, is not a tract or simple morality play.  I  am a Christian, and I frequently hesitate to buy books by many Christian  authors precisely because they often turn out to be not much more than  tracts or morality plays.  Ms. Wright is a good writer AND a Christian: her  faith necessarily informs her  vision as an author.  But Ms. Wright also  knows that novels are STORIES that are meant to delight and inform; Ms.  Wright doesn't use her novel as a pulpit. I'm sure, however, that some  people will find it offensive that she allows Christian characters into the  world of novel, and that she allows them to be real, developed and  &quot;human.&quot;  Her non-Christian characters are real, developed and  &quot;human&quot; as well, but non-Christian characters don't seem to  offend so many sensibilities these days (and that is a sad commentary on  modern sensibilities!).<br />Her book was a delightful, engaging, informative  novel.  I know more about the universe after having read it.  I  &quot;met&quot; people that were real and interesting.  I am a richer  person for having read her book, and that is the way I ought to feel after  reading a book.<br />I will be purchasing more by this author!	2000-03-13
US	51715049	R39QFGLWOPUB30	1556703708	947577706	Giuliano Bugialli's Foods of Italy	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A glimpse of Italy	Mr. Bugialli's book is a classic combination of coffee table picture book and fine cookbook.  The recipes do not represent many of the standard Italian &quot;classics.&quot; (from the tourist point of view).  Instead,  they take you deeper into Italian cuisine.  The recipe for Torta di funghi  was worth the price of the book according to the friends I served it to.   Some recipes involve unusual ingredients, but that is OK with me.  I care  more about authenticity, than about convenience.  <br />The fact that the text  and pictures take you on a mini-tour of Italy makes this a great book, not  just a great cookbook.	2000-01-18
US	51715049	R2A5EU9W1QEYA0	0847820076	308449377	Enchanted Liguria: A Celebration of the Culture, Lifestyle and Food of the Italian Riviera	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Visit to the Italian Riviera	If you are just looking for a bunch of regional recipes this book is not for you.  If you want to make a vicarious journey to Liguria through the eyes of this book, then it is for you.  Thankfully the authors do not  overly romanticize Liguria.  They take you into the backwoods, hills, and  farms, not just the charming ocean villages.   Only about 1/4 of this book  is recipes.  But when you come away with a &quot;feel&quot; for a region  and not just a laundry list of recipes, you have a larger experience than  just food.  I wish more regional cookbooks gave you this kind of glimpse  into the region.  Despite all of this, I think there could have been more  recipes.  I learned so much about Liguria from this book.  I just wanted  more ways of bringing Ligurian food &quot;home&quot; to my kitchen.  Whenever I can afford a trip to Italy, it will contain a stop in Liguria  all because of this book.	2000-01-18
US	51715049	R3SOK5XXI4HO3R	0688158641	789005857	Bugialli's Italy: Traditional Recipes From The Regions Of Italy	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Real Italian Food	Many &quot;Italian&quot; cookbooks are really Italian-American cookbooks.  This one is for you if you want real Italian recipes.  Yes, there are some unusual ingredients and not all the techniques are &quot;easy as pie&quot;,  but this book lets you taste Italy.  I have made a number of the recipes  with great success.  Bugialli knows Italian food and he knows how to teach  Americans to make it.<br />This book is one of my top 10 authentic Italian  cookbooks.	2000-01-06
US	51715049	REU3962X3LRED	039458404X	196340890	Essentials of Classic Italian Cooking	Books	5	19	22	N	N	What a cookbook!	I own many Italian cookbooks.  This has to be my favorite.  It is jammed with recipes that are easy to follow and provide a wonderful taste of Italy.  Ms. Hazen knows both Italian food and what ingredients are  available to Americans.  She combines this knowledge to create a useful,  yet very Italian cookbook.  Ms. Hazen is also a practical cook and  simplifies some of the cumbersome, traditional Italian techniques without  sacrificing flavor! I have made at least 50 of the recipes, all  successfully.  There are at least 100 more I want to try!  Her recipes take  me to Italy via wonderful, authentic, Italian food.	2000-01-06
