US	51721357	R1RAOZG3P1GJ8Y	0974575038	148349185	Goodbye Gutenberg: How a Bronx Teacher Defied 500 Years of Tradition and Launched an Astonishing Renaissance (Designer Writers)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Eye Opener	None but a very few readers attend to the art of typography, yet to a connoisseur, there is a pleasure to be had from simply musing over a page of well-set type such as the enjoyment one derives from holding the \\"Book of Kells\\" in his hand. He will notice how the exact form of each letter has been designed, so that the letters work shoulder-to-shoulder in any combination; how close together the lines are; the proportions of the margins; the alignment, spacing, indentations, drop letters, line and page breaks; widow and orphan control and hyphenation in much the same way as one studies the Michelangelo \\"Pieta.\\"  <br /> <br />Whatever else this manuscript may be, it is secure in its reputation as a typographic masterpiece. Its clear, round legible type derives from Booklady, a modern, feminine font in intimate, gentle, warm, friendly, vivacious, passionate, and bold curves. Nevertheless, this is only the beginning of the startling array of fonts from great foundries. Included are 860 gorgeous, full color images from ancient Egypt, Greece, Rome, Maya, India, China, Japan, Tibet and medieval Europe. <br /> <br />The appeal of this book is that it is in itself a most beautiful object, appealing to those who find beauty in books themselves, quite apart from the words and thoughts they contain. The beauty begins at skin level because merely turning over the cover gives you a delicious taste of what Valerie Kirschenbaum calls a \\"revaluation of visual values for a new generation of readers and writers.\\" <br /> <br />My most meaningful moment came shortly after I had sent a copy to a dear friend who is also an artist. He was secure in the tools of his trade, but was terrified of the computer. \\"This book,\\" he said, \\"inspires me to begin my own work on the computer.\\" <br />That was a truly enlightening moment for me, since I had only anticipated his enjoyment of the book as an art form. It never occurred to me that it would open an entirely new dimension for him as it did for me. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-29
US	51721357	R9LGVARLM552N	0393050572	948966865	Will in the World: How Shakespeare Became Shakespeare	Books	4	124	147	N	Y	Circumstantial Evidence	If you are a Bardolator like myself and read just about everything about Will you can lay your hands on, you will enjoy this book as immensely as I have. Why? Because anything that increases my pleasure in reading the plays and sonnets is worthwhile. Everything should be be explored including the possibility that Shakespeare was written by someone else; the England of his time for our perspective; his sexuality, emotions, and physical handicaps of his life. Stephen Greenblatt approaches his subject in much the same manner as Hercule Poirot might try to solve a mystery: piece by piece until the little grey cells put it all together. It is written in the manner of a detective story about a man of genius written by a man of enormous intellect. Who could ask for anything more exciting? A mystery mulled by a brilliant scholar. Hope you will join me.	2004-09-25
US	51721357	R37G6UZWRTIKRW	089314830X	611920940	The Secret Teachings of All Ages: An Encyclopedic Outline of Masonic, Hermetic, Qabbalistic & Rosicrucian Symbolical Philosophy - Reduced Size Color	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Non plus ultra	Never, to my knowledge, has such a compendium of wisdom and knowledge been revealed to the public. Like Isaac Asimov, another prodigious genius of our century, Manly Palmer Hall boggles my mind; I stand in awe of such a mentality. How is it possible for one man to know so much? (And without a computer!) From wherever his brilliance derived, there is nonesuch alive today, and the greater our loss for it. Our treasure is the inheritance of this one book among many of his, The Secret Teachings of All Ages. I have used this book for reference and for study when I felt I was being boondoggled by other occultists. I always felt I could trust him even when he stepped around sensitive questions that may have revealed too much. I owe this man a very great debt.	2002-11-06
US	51721357	R3NHZCUSX0TZ5O	0871161966	404222606	Writer's Handbook 2003 (Writer's Handbook)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Knight in Shining Armor	The 67th edition from The Writer magazine is an essential weapon in the writer's battle with editors and publishers. The Writer's Handbook eliminates many of the small squirmishes and clears the field for a successful onslaught. I do not venture forth without my aides-de-camp, the indispensible Writer's Market and the Children's Market, but I am fortified with the advice of my generals, the fifty essays in this handbook by our greatest writers on professional rights, the craft of writing, professional development, and ideas and inspiration. <BR>The format and font are easy to read and most enjoyable. Don't go riding into the fray without a glancing look at this very handy book.	2002-11-06
US	51721357	R331KDF3TL1Q7	0717130568	440863321	The Cosmos of Soul: A Wake-Up Call for Humanity	Books	5	120	128	N	N	Winds of change are blowing	Cori's book brought back to my mind a parable my beloved guru taught me. <BR>A flock of eagles was pecking seed on a farmer's land. Since the farmer threw them food every day, they stayed on the farm day after day, month after month. A wise old eagle flew by and saw his friends.<BR> \\"Why are you on the ground?\\"<BR> \\"The human feeds us and we have no need to go any place else,\\" they replied.<BR>\\"But you are eagles and have forgotten how to fly. Your realm is in the sky, not on the ground. Let me free you.\\"<BR>The physical conditioning of our sensual pleasures ties us to this earthly plane. We have forgotten that we are not physical but bodies of light. We can fly. We can escape our conditioned existence, our hypnotized state, and we have the assistance of an extremely intelligent source, the Sirian High Council, channeled by Patricia Cori.<BR>It seems to me that if Patricia Cori had written the movie script for \\"Network\\" (remember Peter Finch in the role of the broadcaster?) she might have said,<BR>\\"Now I want you all to get off your knees, turn off the TV, go to the window and shout: 'I'm mad as hell and I'm not going to take it anymore.'\\"<BR>She is making a clarion call to action as messenger for the High Council. As Andre Gide said, \\"Everything that needs to be said has already been said. But since no one was listening, everything must be said again.\\" Here is your best chance to listen.<BR>Some folks mired in their old ways will not understand where we are going. Their paradigm is shifting and they don't see it. The Council explains what will be happening to those who cannot or will not see the forthcoming ascension of the awakened. Cori discusses how that particular problem will be resolved.<BR>The material she covers is so extensive and detailed, it encourages me to follow suit. But a universal caveat cautions me to let each person discover it alone. The path to self-discovery is within the self, and no intermediary should intervene.<BR>In addition, you will enjoy her book on \\"Atlantis Rising: The Struggle of Darkness and Light.\\"<BR>For further reading, I would like to include a short list of relevant material:<BR>(1) Carl Jung's introduction to \\"The Secret of the Golden Flower,\\" explains how \\"Chi\\" circulates through our bodies like the kundalini in the chakras. Notice the relationship of Chi to the DNA of science, the two strands of energy to the ancient Chinese explanation of three strands.<BR>(2) Vance Packard's \\"The Hidden Persuaders,\\" how the advertising industry seduces us with subliminal ads.<BR>(3) Anything from the creative mind of Gene Roddenberry.<BR>(4) Joseph Chilton Pearce, \\"The Crack in the Cosmic Egg,\\" (to be re-released Sept 2002) regarding the overexposure of children and ourselves to TV.<BR>(5) Timothy Freke, the \\"Hermetica, the Lost Wisdom of the Pharaohs,\\" and our relationship to the matrix of the universe.<br />Are you ready for the dawn of the transformation? Find out.	2002-08-01
US	51721357	R2FYAR15GMUJK	0880793228	636958610	Tarot: Mirror of the Soul (Gift Set, Handbook and Cards)	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Extreme perceptive	I am in wholehearted agreement with the other reviewers. I think that Gerd Ziegler is deeply insightful and I have enjoyed his books for many years. One point of clarification should be emphasized and that is in regard to what some say is his optimism. As a reader, I have used many decks (I am under the impression that more than 2,000 decks are available), and naturally have several favorites, but for some reason, keep coming back to the Crowley deck with Ziegler's interpretation of the paintings done for the cards. When a reader lays out a \\"Gypsy\\" spread, the cards are all read upright, thereby eliminating the negative readings for the cards. The \\"Tower\\" for instance, indicates a major change or transformation in your life. If the Tower is reversed, does that mean it will be more difficult or less difficult? So, for the reader and the client, it is clearer to be straightforward. Second point: the Tarot is designed teach lessons of life. If people are in trouble, and that is why they come to consult, they need to know a path out of it.<br />Negativity can be self-fulfilling, even in astrology. If you want a lot of bad news, have your horoscope done. As a teacher, I come from the school where I want to help lead and develop my students. I don't want to be told that a criminal is coming and there is nothing I can do. Astrologers get away from the negative readings by quoting Paracelsus, \\"The stars incline, they do not compel.\\" Perhaps Tarot should say \\"You are the creator of your own destiny, and this is what is perceived on a spiritual level for you.\\" Use it wisely.	2002-07-30
US	51721357	R3POJUI1YF0TWI	1570620636	21156452	Zen Flesh, Zen Bones (Shambhala Pocket Classics)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Ideal introduction	Zen Flesh, Zen Bones<br />To a student of Zen, it is unnecessary to introduce this book. For those folks reading about Zen for the first time, this is a collection of Zen and Pre-Zen writings. For the greater part, it allows you to explore with your own mind these great insights without a lot of left-brain interference. Oh yes, you get clues but no answers, because these must come from the fusion of the neurons in your own brain.<br />I will have to admit that I no longer lend this book to anyone. It never comes back. My copy is old and has notations on every page, thoughts that occurred to me. While I was reading it for the first time a few years back, I had a dream. In the dream, I entered an ancient house and walked down into the black basement. As I opened each of a series of doors in this darkness, I would reach for the light in the center of the room. Light after light popped on. I am sure I do not have to interpret this dream for you. That is exactly what happened to the darkness in my mind: light after light illuminated my world. I was so excited I could hardly breathe. It was the beginning of a long flight towards freedom.<br />The greatest part of this is you do not have to learn to meditate. Each teaching brings you closer and closer to solving the problem of your mind, that is, relating conscious to preconscious awareness, into your every day living. It offers the flesh and bones of Zen. The marrow is your discovery of yourself.	2002-07-29
US	51721357	R3HL6USWR6COVI	0871590670	111736196	Metaphysical Bible Dictionary (Charles Fillmore Reference Library)	Books	5	120	126	N	N	Invaluable Reference	Metaphysical Bible Dictionary<br />Charles Fillmore's books in my library include the &quot;Metaphysical Bible Dictionary,&quot; &quot;Atom Smashing Power of Mind,&quot; &quot;Teach Us to Pray,&quot; and &quot;The Revealing Word.&quot; Before the time of Anthony Robbins, Zig Zigler, Napoleon Hill or other motivational facilitators, Fillmore's words excited my imagination and stirred my soul. Let's not discuss how long ago that was.<br />Does a vein of independence in religious thought run through the American psyche? Our freedom sparks revelations and spiritual enlightenment. I have not made a major study of the development of various religious sects, but reviewing this book made me look up some of the folks living during the 19th century who took religious and philosophical theories and pursued them to their metaphysical ends, the nature of ultimate reality.<br />Is there a certain liberalism in American religion, pulling away from the restrictions of the European models, both catholic and protestant? Without researching more than ten minutes, I found nearly a dozen founders of spiritual groups. I cannot say they influenced each other, since everyone walked a lone path. Just think of these names, all within a hundred years of each other: William Miller (Adventist), Phineas Quimby (New Thought), Mary Baker Eddy (Christian Science), Joseph Smith (Mormon), Charles Fillmore (Unity), Charles Russell (Jehovah's Witness), Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry David Thoreau (Transcendentalism), Helena Blavatsky (Theosophy), and I am sure I have not done justice to many others. What was going on?<br />Regarding the Dictionary itself, except where the etymology has become lost, the definitions have been traced back to their prototypical root ideas. This nontraditional feature gives us greater clarity for a profound understanding of the Scriptures. Charles Fillmore explained that proper names in Hebrew derive from abstract ideas with connotations that may be good or bad. The MBD explains this in the preface using the example of the word, &quot;Cain.&quot; The root means &quot;centralized power or accumulation.&quot; So it could mean benign rulership, lawful possession, or it could stand for despotism and extreme selfishness. Both the Hebrew and Egyptian tongues have been a source of confusion. (See Rosemary Clark's &quot;Sacred Tradition in Ancient Egypt.&quot;) The idea in the Dictionary is to clarify as much as possible, even offering alternative meanings and spellings. It does not claim to be the final authority, but a stepping stone to a higher realm of spiritual consciousness, toward attainment of the mind &quot;which was also in Christ Jesus.&quot;	2002-07-27
US	51721357	RW1KXLC0F0WYN	1855382954	438251841	Dictionary For Dreamers (Language of the Unconscious, Vol 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Invaluable Aid	Dreams are not produced by MGM nor by the authors of &quot;dream books.&quot; I have used this book, not as an exclusive tool, but as a prod or a cue book to help me associate a possible meaning that may jog my memory. This book is invaluable, and I continue to use it even if every answer is not there. For more possibilities I turn to Strephon Kaplan-Williams to look at his &quot;Dream Cards,&quot; or to a dictionary of symbols. Use whatever is necessary, but remember, it is your dream and only you know the answer. Don't give in to some fortune teller's dream books. Throw them away.	2002-07-22
US	51721357	R27VZO85H6KNQL	1565891279	373359877	The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam Explained: Guided Visualizations Based On The Poetry Of Paramhansa Yogananda	Books	4	26	28	N	N	Story Behind the Scenes	Who has not heard or read these lines of beauty?<br />\\"Here with a Loaf of Bread beneath the Bough, A Flask of Wine, a Book of Verse -- and Thou,\\" or \\"The Moving Finger writes; and having writ, Moves on.\\"?<br />These lines are from the first translation of The Rubaiyat by the English translator and man of letters, Edward FitzGerald (1809 - 1883). While it retains the spirit and philosophy expressed in the original quatrains, FitzGerald's translation was so free in its rendition as to be virtually an original work. <BR>Omar Khayyam, poet, astronomer and mathematician was born in Persia in the latter part of the 11th century. His surname, Khayyam, means \\"tent-maker\\" although that undoubtedly referred to his father's trade more than to his own because actually, he was independently wealthy. He was a friend of Nizami, the Vizier of Baghdad who founded the great college of Baghdad, where Omar Khayyam was taught. Omar Khayyam lived in seclusion until Malik Shah appointed him Astronomer Royal, who, along with eight other scholars, revised the Muslim calendar. It seems certain that Khayyam was a Sufi mystic and kept his spiritual life hidden from superficial worldly minds. <br />\\"Omar,\\" Paramhansa Yogananda has said, \\"by a very large number of Western readers, has come to be regarded as a rather erotic pagan poet, a drunkard interested only in wine and earthly pleasure. This is typical of the confusion that exists on the entire subject of Sufism. The wine is the joy of the spirit, and the love is the rapturous devotion to God?\\"<br />The Rubaiyat as well as the Tales of the Arabian Nights are not love stories about drunkards, genies, and magic caves filled with treasures, but mystical stories based on the religion of Sufism. Their encoded symbolism, when revealed, is deeply mystical and meaningful. <br />One example is the magic lamp of Aladdin. First, the meaning of the name: AL is Arabic for God, \\"ALLAH.\\"  DDIN is a transcription of the word DJINN (or we would say in the West, \\"Genie.\\") But in Arabic it means SPIRIT. Thus, ALADDIN means \\"The Spirit of God.\\" Well, what is the magic lamp, then? The magic lamp is something we all possess in the depths (cave) of the subconscious, the MIND. What would it mean then that the \\"Spirit of God\\" rubs the \\"Mind\\"? This refers to the practice of meditation. By focussing on an idea, a single thought, our minds are capable of bringing about any reality we dream of. We are the co-creators of our own universe, our own lives. As Pogo, the comic strip character, said: \\"We have met the enemy, and it is we-uns.\\" We are responsible for our own self-undoing, just as we are responsible for creating our own lives. <br />Secrecy and the practice of hiding deep truths behind a veil of exotic symbolism was the way the Sufis protected themselves against persecution for their unorthodox views. It is similar to the deep mysticism of the Jewish Kabala. The Sufis called their secret language QBL. The alchemists of the West used another example of hidden mysticism. Do you think they were really trying to transmute lead into gold, or were they trying to transmute the gross material of our bodies and souls into the golden glory of the spirit? If you think so, read John Randolph Price?s book published by Hay House, The Alchemist?s Handbook. Nostradamus and Leonardo daVinci also hid their writings in obscure diaries and secret codes.<br />Paramhansa Yogananda accomplished much of the mystic discovery about Omar Khayyam in his book, The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam Explained. Paramhansa Yogananda was one of the great spiritual beacons of the 20th century. His Autobiography of a Yogi, first published in 1946, has been a best-selling autobiography for the past fifty years. Yogananda was born in India in 1893 and sent to this country in 1920 where he founded the Self-Realization Fellowship in Los Angeles, California, a non-sectarian and universal organization. His close friend and editor of the book on the Rubaiyat, J. Donald Walters, also known as Kriyananda, wrote: \\"Yogananda's charity, compassion, unshakable calmness, loving friendship to all, delightful sense of humor and deep insight into human nature were such as to leave me constantly amazed.\\"	2002-07-09
US	51721357	R1B7TGWMG183T1	0785809074	456304334	Essential Gay Mystics	Books	5	26	31	N	Y	From the Heart	As a Westerner brought up in a culture that separates sexuality from spirituality, it had never occurred to me there could be gay mystics who could be identified. Quite frankly, I had never given much thought about any kind of sexuality of the mystics. I knew that St. Augustine regretted his profligate youth, and that St. Francis of Assisi was a notorious hoodlum, but the idea that they had had sexual desires never occurred to me. Perhaps I was naive, and probably the closest I came to such thoughts were from Nikos Kazantzakis' book, Zorba the Greek, (the movie starred Anthony Quinn), which underlined the conflict between flesh and spirit,<BR>between Dionysus (sometimes called Bacchus) and Apollo. In his greatest film, Kazantzakis also carried this conflict into the life of Jesus called The Last Temptation of Christ. Those who did not understand this theme picketed the movie houses at the time of its release. Look at Umberto Eco's The Name of the Rose. You may remember that Sean Connery won a British Academy award for best actor in this story of 14th century monks in an Italian abbey where someone is committing many murders. Both of these stories have homosexual incidents in them. Yet, somehow, I could understand that; after all, these were sequestered men living alone without women, similar to military or prison life and homosexual tensions are unbearable for some.<br />The evolution of psychological theories since Freud, Jung, and Adler has moved to an \\"integral approach,\\" linking body, mind and soul in balance as a holistic unit. In the past, spiritual and other psychologists have treated body, mind and soul as if they were separate entities, whereas, in order to reach the wholeness of spirit, the oneness of the universe, and we must include our bodies and minds. The desires of the flesh, the ideas of the mind, and the luminosities of the soul--all are perfect expressions of the radiant Spirit that alone inhabits the universe. Physical exercise, vitamins, if necessary, sufficient sleep, a time for relaxation, and a healthy sexual life for the body; good reading and challenging creative ideas for the mind; and the joy of the here and now for the soul as observer. <br />The word \\"mysticism\\" means a direct intuition or experience of God, what Abraham Maslow called a \\"peak experience.\\" This will frequently happen to almost everyone who is taken breathless at a sunset, a soaring mountain, or just waking up one day feeling exhilarated for no reason at all. A mystic is a person who has had such a direct experience, not merely from accepted religious  beliefs but from first-hand personal knowledge. There is no intermediary of priest, rabbi, or shaman. In addition, mysticism<BR>need not be religious or theistic, but can express itself in art,<BR>literature, music or poetry. <br />The other word, \\"gay,\\" is slightly more difficult to define  because it is understood in such a narrow and usually limited construct. Gay usually refers to a middle-class homosexual male living in the West in the late 20th century. \\"Lesbian\\" comes from the name of the island of Lesbos where Sappho, the poet, wrote her inspiring works. Cultural and historical evidence shows that not only has same-sex desire always existed and been known to exist, but that in many cultures those who followed this path were seen as connected to the sacred. To give only one example, the berdache, the cross-dressing shaman of various American Indian tribes, holds an esteemed and fundamental place in the life of a tribe. <br />The book, Gay Mystics, is set forth on the hypothesis that sin and sex do not need to be approved and that gay sexuality is as innately spiritual as heterosexuality. In the East, Tantra considers all seemingly lesser occasions (errors, stumbling blocks, sin) not as distractions from the Spirit, but celebrations of Spirit's exuberant, wild, overflowing, ever-present creativity. For there is only God, only Spirit, only Goddess, only Tao. More simply, every single thing and event in this universe, high or low, sacred or profane, has the same feeling or taste, the taste of the Divine.<br />Excerpting passages from 60 gay and lesbian writers--covering 20 centuries and at least a dozen traditions including classical Greek, Native American, Sufi, and Christian, Andrew Harvey explores a variety of religious and sexual experiences. He includes texts from Sappho, Plato, Vergil, Basho, Attar, Hafiz, Michaelangelo, Emily Dickinson, Jean Cocteau, Audre Lorde, and many others. His extensive research, empathetic perspective, and compelling grasp of spirituality make this book not only unique, but also vital to an understanding of contemporary theology,<BR>religion and psychology.<br />Ken Wilber, psychologist, has said \\"Andrew Harvey has pulled together some of the most passionate and touching works in all of mystical literature, and as it happens, the authors are all gay. But the words speak for themselves: that is, the Divine directly speaks through the words in this volume, words that flowed through gay hearts and gay minds and gay love, but words which speak<BR>profoundly, eloquently, gorgeously, to the same Divine in all of us. A mystic is not one who sees God as an object, but one who is immersed in God as an atmosphere, and the works collected here are a radiant testament to that all-encompassing condition. Harvey has given us a cornucopia of mystical wisdom, tender as tears and gentle as fog, but also passionately ablaze with the relentless fire of the very Divine.\\"<br />At age twenty-one Andrew Harvey attended Oxford, and received England's highest academic honor, becoming the youngest Fellow of All Soul's College in its history. He is now a visiting professor at the California Institute of Integral Studies. He lives with his husband, writer and photographer Eryk Hanut, in Nevada.<br />A prolific writer, Harvey is the author of over ten books, including Journey to Ladakh. He collaborated with Sogyal Rinpoche on the best-selling Tibetan Book of Living and Dying. Harvey is the subject of a 1993 BBC documentary, The Making of a Mystic.	2002-07-09
US	51721357	RHD27WM0WFKZ6	0874776384	948938075	At a Journal Workshop: Writing to Access the Power of the Unconscious and Evoke Creative Ability	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Indispensible	As a preliminary statement, even though this reviewer worked for Dr. Progoff during the 1950s and 60s in NYC as an archivist, he will not recuse himself from reviewing Dr. Progoff's work which opened a whole new vista in his life. His perception is how Ira used the material from his lectures on the Intensive Journal Workshop and therapy sessions to formulate his theories about dreams, diaries and journals and the creative process. This is the culmination of his work.<br />Poets, musicians, mediums, and persons from all walks of life would come to him seeking healing, psychological, and spiritual support. He broke new ground with his creative intellect. He changed lives. This book, At a Journal Workshop, condenses everything he taught, and, it must be admitted, is not light reading unless you are familiar with his other work or similar topics. The book is most valuable when used as an adjunct to attending a class, and obviates the necessity of your keeping handwritten notes.<br />If your intellect is sharp and pervasive, you will have no problems absorbing his exercises. In a way, it's like learning to use a computer, the books are great, but there is nothing like hands on experience. You learn by doing, and when you are ready for the next step, refer to the book to extend your journal or your dream. It offers various ways to do this. <br />Several books on simple methods for keeping a journal are available, but none have the meat of this one. This reviewer has conducted journal and dream-work classes, and this is his principal source. Many others have followed in Dr. Progoff?s steps and a debt is owed to them all. Five stars.	2002-07-05
US	51721357	RMLZD60DDULIR	0028629175	387081217	Unofficial Guide to Casino Gambling	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Insider Information	As a layman, that is non-professional and occasional gambler, (after all, I live a stone's throw from Las Vegas!)my curiosity was piqued by the fact that some people seem to have some sort of psychic insight into gaming. How did they do it? Could I do it myself? <BR>I asked a woman, a &quot;high-roller,&quot; how she always seemed to cash in on the jackpots. &quot;Oh,&quot; she said, &quot; you just go to the new machines.&quot; Wow! But how do you know which ones are new? &quot;You just know.&quot; I'm sorry, I'm too pragmatic for such  an airy answer.<BR>However, I did find what I was looking for in the &quot;Unofficial Guide to Casino Gambling.&quot;<BR>I'm still not a millionaire, but I'll tell you I have a lot more fun knowing some of the insider information than I ever did just playing blindly and not knowing what I was really doing wrong.<BR>Read it. You'll love it.	2002-06-22
US	51721357	R3U0B0VQ6SROTI	1582970440	410767196	2002 Writer's Market: 8,000 Editors Who Buy What You Write	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Indispensible	What can an aspiring and perspiring writer say about the &quot;Writers' Market&quot; that hasn't been said a thousand times before? I simply had to have it in my home and avoid those trips to the library to photocopy page after page.<BR>And there is simply too much information, including editorial needs and submission guidelines, I needed to read at leisure. Every library copy is a &quot;Reference Room Only&quot; and that just wouldn't do. Be smart and get it yourself.	2002-06-22
US	51721357	RTT3EF66UIKE3	1577311523	155458601	The Power of Now: A Guide to Spiritual Enlightenment	Books	5	5	8	N	N	YES!	Our millennium is bringing forth a new, collective flowering of consciousness. The old set of consciousness has not yet been broken, and, unfortunately,  it may only be broken by a momentous future catastrophe. Perhaps \\"September 11\\" was the beginning of our awakening.<br />During the latter part of the 19th century, an extraordinary woman, Madame Blavatsky, channeled material which created a great movement of spiritual awareness. Yet, she stated that it would be another hundred years before the secrets she kept would be revealed. Almost to the day, the Course of Miracles was released but never advertised except by word of mouth. It seemed that the Course simplified teachings from almost every imaginable source, but it also presented itself in a form that was non-threatening to the modern Christian-oriented world.<br />Now, new teachers are emerging, and they are helping us with this transformation by presenting these same ideas from Eastern and Western spiritual teachings in a neutral, up-to-date format. Certainly, one of outstanding teachers is a young man, Eckert Tolle, author of \\"The Awakening West,\\" and a new masterpiece, \\"The Power of Now.\\"<br />Our time has come to move from the old image of pain, hatred and war, to the new paradigm of the release of suffering for all humanity. The thoughts have been our sacred treasure for thousands of years from all the great mystics of our planet, but now we are ready to understand what the transformation means for the survival of the human species.	2002-06-22
US	51721357	R2LSA1D4Z2JUZN	0967916208	791993632	The Unfair Advantage: Sell with NLP!	Books	5	36	43	N	Y	Brain software	An information scientist, Richard Bandler, and a linguistic professor, John Grinder, developed Neurolinguistic programming techniques called NLP in the early 70's. From a study of successful people, they created a way to evaluate and transfer humanity's highest achievements and excellence into a powerful psychology that has practical applications.<br />Let's assume your mind is made up of different parts like the roles each of us enact during the day: a woman can at the same time be a wife, mother, daughter, sister, coworker, secretary, cook and so on. Can you see where I am going? For each of these roles, we allow certain facets of our personality to come forward and suppress the others. For example, a cook does not necessarily have to know where the Xerox machine is. Therefore, in the mind, folks talk to themselves in different voices or attitudes depending on which role or part is conscious. This is normal and healthy.<br />In addition, you have parts with which you are pleased and other parts you would like to enhance. The goal of NLP is to teach you how to improve your internal talk to get all your parts synchronized and working together.<br />NLP has branched into many fields from success mastery in overcoming negative patterns to the practical applications for sales and marketing. Today's customer has massive control with access to more information than can possibly be processed. The message you send to make a distinction for your product or to make you stand out as a special person must be personal, adaptable, appealing and intended for the one rather than the many. As Paul Lakin declares: &quot;The 'Unfair Advantage' is the ability to sell YOU.&quot;<br />Being familiar with NLP, I bought a copy to help me with my work in a non-profit fundraising organization. Like others who must deal with folks on the telephone, you must capture the prospect's attention within the first few seconds. You must be able to say something that will put the prospect off guard just long enough for you to begin your case.<br />Remember, that the voice must do everything. You cannot see body signs or a bored look. What to do? Listen to the verbs. The object of Lakin's book is to teach you how to recognize the language preference revealed by the action words (verbs) you tend to choose at any given time. These relate to our five senses: visual (sight), auditory (hearing), kinesthetic (feeling), olfactory (smell), and gustatory (taste). The following examples are from the book:<BR>Visual? &quot;I see your point.&quot;<BR>Auditory: &quot;I hear the problem and would like to say something about it.&quot;<BR>Kinesthetic: &quot;I don't have a good feel for that yet.&quot;<BR>Olfactory: &quot;Something smells here.&quot;<BR>Gustatory: &quot;That is sweet.&quot;<br />Since Western speakers seldom use the last two categories, the lessons hone in on the visual, auditory, and kinesthetic.<br />Without making this too lengthy, if you are in contact with the person you are selling, you can identify their sensory inclination by watching their eyes and the direction they look.<BR>This volume is a priceless treasure and I rate it five stars for the ease in which they have taught me to be a success.	2002-05-03
US	51721357	R158K5ZPHCJ37C	1561705888	357417905	From Seekers to Finders	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Shocker	The best minds of humanity have puzzled over the meaning of consciousness and the change of consciousness we call enlightenment. It is true there are hundreds of explanations, and some theories are confusing if you have no frame of reference either in philosophy, theology, or psychology. My thought is the question: what if all these references were true, but simply evolving at different levels?<BR>Some of you may have guessed that in the back of my mind is Ken Wilbur's &quot;Spectrum of Consciousness.&quot; Specifically, for you Virgos (all others ignore): page 143, figure 3. Wilbur states there is no merging with the Center. We are always merged with the Center (the Source, One Taste). &quot;It is rather an understanding of this eternal union Now and not the manufacture of it tomorrow.&quot; As Nadeem's &quot;Source&quot; comes up in an individual's experience, it is made objective, no longer confused with the Real Subject until, he says, there is only the Real Subject.<BR>Satyam Nadeem is one real tough cookie. He views life nakedly, without any lenses to blur or distort his perspective. Similar in function to the Erhard Seminars Training (est), he takes a hard look at our state of (un)consciousness, and like the blow to the head a Rishi uses to awaken his students, so Nadeem uses the shock value of his words. I agree with him that there is an enormous increase of energy (&quot;Shift,&quot; he calls it)towards a previously unknowable level of consciousness opening to the modern person.<BR>There are, however, many who are unable to handle this energy and who will not make the Shift. These are neither good nor bad souls, merely those who were not ready. This matter of readiness is where I disagree with Nadeem. We have free will and we can choose to work towards and be prepared for the change. It is a beautiful work like the dreamworld or an art work available to any human willing to make this their own artwork.<BR>The problem I feel with the New Age concept is thatthey see only bliss, joy, happiness, but no work! Sorry. That's not true. Humans are designed to work and to face challenges, and also to cease work, to relax and find the silence.<BR>As a shocker, I rate this four stars.	2002-05-02
US	51721357	R3I4UYWLNRV2GK	1561706639	156510868	The Parables of Kryon	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Inspirational	Kryon is a loving entity currently on earth to help us move into the next phase of a new era. These parables are stories told by Kryon and translated by Lee Carroll to show how many persons are reacting to special circumstances as we move deeper into this century and begin to receive the new gifts of God. You will not find the negativity or cynicism of some channeled entities, and no hard lessons here. This is truly an inspired and inspiring book helping you discover how to come closer to the Great Reality, which seems to some to be a fairy tale like &quot;The Wonderful Wizard of Oz.&quot; I hope you have an opportunity to read and share this book with those you love.	2000-10-27
US	51721357	R1J8TOYZU6H83C	1561707473	13009319	The Alchemist's Handbook	Books	5	61	65	N	N	Dynamic Alchemy	The author of The Jesus Code and fifteen other books has opened for modern eyes another ancient secret formula expressing the eternal paths to self-mastery and co-creation. Price says that conflict and scarcity cannot exist in a universe of love and infinite abundance. So, create your own program for greater joy and fulfillment in life. Realize the power of the mind and the holistic unity of spirit and matter. Allow the Creative Principle to work by dynamically materializing your ideals into the world of form. Price has restored &quot;dynamic alchemy&quot; which began disappearing in the mid-1800's when a particular teaching was promulgated with the specific purpose of proving the objective world was only an illusion. The art of Hermetic Alchemy deals in the mastery of mental forces; the changing of mental vibrations into other vibrations, not changing lead into gold but something that image conveys to our imaginations. We may truly be spirit inhabiting physical bodies, but we do exist temporarily in this material universe. John Randolph Price takes us from the Alchemical Sun to Saturn, and then to Isis, to show us that being prosperous is equivalent to a life of beauty, happiness, and freedom.  Burn through to see the eternal truths living in the life of the spirit. Enlightened living comes from working with a spiritual discipline of whatever technique helps you to transcend the physical self and personal ego. Be the Light! Move to the fulfillment of your dreams. Live, enjoy, and prosper!	2000-10-10
US	51721357	R3EIGIS26U13G3	0875427081	218054411	The Enochian Tarot/86-Card Deck	Books	4	4	4	N	N	GREAT WORK RESTORED	The Enochian Tarot deck has been out of print, and it was a great joy to see this re-issue. It is an easy-to-use system of self-discovery allowing you to see your relationship to God and the universe by looking deep inside your subconscious mind to see the direction your life is taking. The mini-book is very helpful with explanations of terminology, Enochian Magic, seven layouts used especially for Enochian Tarot, four rituals and pathworkings, and two study programs, plus an example of an Enochian Tarot reading. The mini-book does not give lengthy descriptions of each card because you are establishing a dialogue with beings from the non-physical realm. There is, however, a separate book, &quot;The Enochian Tarot,&quot; which devotes two pages to each card and includes the Enochian Gematria and multiple references for further work and study. I would strongly suggest purchasing it for the serious student.<br />The deck has thirty major arcana instead of twenty-two. Each Major Arcana card (trump) describes one of the thirty Aethyrs. The fundamental difference in Tarot design reflects the basic difference found in the magical universe that is described in Enochian Magic. Welcome back!	2000-10-03
US	51721357	R1G50DO3UIFPHW	1567180876	221120498	The Magical I Ching	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Magick and History	The I Ching, or Book of Changes, is an ancient Chinese process of divination, whose origin is often estimated as 3,000 BCE, but may have derived thousands of years earlier from the Siberian shamans who used cracked tortoise shells as their method of divining the future. The I Ching is one of the first efforts of the human mind to place itself within the universe; and as it later became a book of wisdom, provided the common source for both Confucianism and the Taoist philosophies. The symbol you have most likely seen is the t'ai chi, a circle divided into light and dark, yang and yin.<br />This symbol, the t'ai chi, like the Tree of Yggdrasil(the World Tree in the runes), was called the &quot;ridgepole of the world.&quot; Astrology uses a similar concept with an imaginary line running from Capricorn through Cancer, (the Mid Heaven to the Nadir), dividing the horoscope into two equal but opposing parts. <br />Each line has a special meaning based on its placement in the hexagram, which is read from the bottom up. Interestingly enough, it is based on the binary system of 0's and 1's, the same as our modern binary computer languages. The patterns, or oracles,  reveal the answer to a psychological, business, social or romantic problem. Coins, sticks, cards, stones can be used, but always in threes. They are tossed into the air and the numerological total determines the type of line in the hexagram, which is built from the base upwards. Your question is best phrased in a &quot;yes-no&quot; form, although it need not be spoken nor written. This process is repeated until the six lines are built. Carl Jung, the psychologist, who called it &quot;synchronicity,&quot; formulated the rationality of the answer. This simply means that there is a principle that two separate events will occur at the same time, neither one connected to the other nor having an effect on the other, yet meaningfully related when consciously or subconsciously willed.<br />Today, there are extensive interpretations: Confucian, Taoist, feminist Goddess, and many other points of view; and since Chinese is an ambiguous language, many authors have claimed a 'newer, more accurate' translation every five months. Whatever works for you, go for it.<br />Here, however, Brennan has proposed that since the I Ching only hints at the future, and does not actually delineate it because of your free will, there is an important magical use.<br />He says, &quot;The words 'Know Thyself' were written over the portals of the Greek Mysteries as a reminder that the only real magic works from the inside out, and self-knowledge is an absolute necessity to avoid falling into the snares of self-deception and illusion. If you use the oracle first of all to learn about yourself, then to change yourself, you will find  very quickly that you have set yourself on the road to becoming a superior man or woman and the conditions in your external environment will begin to improve accordingly. You will have begun consciously to cooperate with your own evolutionary process, consciously to discharge your accumulated karma. In short, with the aid of the oracle, you will begin to lead a truly magical life.&quot;<br />Brennan has chosen a more dynamic, active astral doorway to pathworking rituals, linking the archetypal symbols in your deep mind with the relevant area of the Astral Plane, and reworded the oracle for the new millennium. For his originality and historical emphasis, I rate this enchanting and immensely readable book, four and a half stars.	2000-09-26
US	51721357	RYVW5C0IEUUGZ	1561707201	599247453	Astrology Through a Psychic's Eyes	Books	3	21	23	N	N	CONTROVERSIAL	I have been following Sylvia Browne's highly successful career as a spiritualist, psychic, channeller, and author, and when I first read this book I was mystified why she might venture into new territory. She writes from her very subjective viewpoint, and frankly says you will not read any of this information in any other book. Very true. Browne seems to feel that conventional astrologers do not study individuals closely enough and that only a face-to-face encounter is significant. Perhaps. It would be interesting to have a panel show with Silvia Browne, Noel Tyl, Jan Spiller, Alan Oken, Doris Doane, Julia Parker, Marcia Starck, Frances Sakoian, Dane Rudhyar and Marc Jones.<br />My principal hurdle to overcome is Browne's demographics. True, she is talking with people, but only those who have come to her who believe in psychics, spiritualism and the ability to channel the dead. I hardly think that is a wide spectrum of society. I came away with a dark view of astrology, which Browne says she does not use in her work because it does not contribute anything. She also states that people tend to look upon astrology as a directive, as if it were set in stone. I agree with her there, but I also notice that the singular major statement of astrologers I have read have said, &quot;the stars incline, they do not compel.&quot; I do not wish to oversimplify her work by trying to condense her comments about each of the signs. A few years ago, a book of humor was published listing only the negative statements people make about the Sun signs. Browne has not gone so far as that because I am definitely under the impression she likes Capricorns. I can only give this book three stars, because if I am going to study astrology, I think I will choose the professionals.	2000-09-21
US	51721357	R3M7J8SAO0XP60	156170671X	863527305	The Jesus Code	Books	5	49	53	N	N	Rediscover the Great Teacher	A delightful and inspirational book for everyone. As we move into the  Light, we express this Light in our own fashion based on the beliefs we  have from our religious or mystical background. John Randolph Price has  rediscovered his links to the great teacher of 2,000 years ago, Jesus. Like  Ignatius Loyola's &quot;Imitation of Christ,&quot; Price encourages us to  \\"Be as Jesus.\\"<br />Price had a traumatic dream in which he was blocked access  to Cosmic Consciousness by the words ACCESS DENIED on his computer. After  thirty years of searching through the mystical experiences of the world, he  was totally at a loss to figure out what had happened. He meditated, he  read books, he searched through his memory, but nothing would emerge.  Finally, he took a break and went for a walk in a forest. It was then that  he was given The Jesus Code.<br />Without becoming doctrinal, Price proceeds  to allow you into his secret, and even more, guides you through his  meditations to affirmations you can use in a clear step-by-step method,  giving you the information and the tools you need to change your  perspective and your experience from an earthly, carnal-mind existence into  a truly spiritual one, with all the joy, abundance and delight that  entails. He covers, in his easy-to-read way, such topics as rising above  karma; understanding the solution to problems; understanding true prayer;  seeing the highest vision; and knowing the one healing process that really  works. He also suggests a method to bring your experience into  configuration with your highest spiritual nature.<br />We are all in the  strange position of living in an era when the world is reaching some sort  of culmination. The violence, greed, and materialism shaping world history  for the past few centuries have reached such proportions that we may  destroy ourselves totally, just as the Atlanteans did before us, and also  probably destroy all life on this planet.<br />There is enough wealth in the  world to guarantee a good living standard for everyone on the face of the  earth. Nor is it necessary for millions of people to die of diseases for  which modern medicine has remedies. We have the power to develop clean and  renewable sources of energy and prevent the decline of our physical  environment. The main barrier we face as a species is found in the present  evolutionary level of our consciousness.<br />If we continue to act out the  destructive tendencies from our deep unconscious, we will undoubtedly  destroy all everything on our planet. However, if we could succeed in  incorporating the values Mr. Price has revealed to us within each Self as  our conscious or subconscious guiding principles, and continue this process  on a large enough scale, it might result in evolutionary progress that  could take us as far beyond our present conditions as we now are from the  primates. As our level of aggression decreases, we become more peaceful,  more comfortable with ourselves and more tolerant. Deep reverence for life  and environmental awareness are among the most frequent consequences of the  spiritual transformation that accompanies responsible work with  non-ordinary states of consciousness.	2000-09-16
US	51721357	RBYQHFU996SUC	1567181295	965927866	The Sacred Tradition in Ancient Egypt: The Esoteric Wisdom Revealed	Books	5	35	38	N	N	Brilliant work	Two hundred years ago, Egypt seized our interest in its great mysteries  and the unbelievably long civilization they created when Champollion, the  young French genius, discovered the key to translating the Rosetta Stone  bearing inscriptions in Egyptian hieroglyphics, demotic characters (a  simplified form of ancient Egyptian writing), and ancient Greek.<br />Egyptian texts present the translator with greater technical problems  than most ancient tongues. The Egyptians left behind none of the usual and  invaluable aids to translation. Like modern Hebrew and Arabic, Egyptian was  written without vowels, so that only the consonantal structure is left. Its  vital organs are gone, leaving behind dry bones. Much of the poetry and  word play is lost forever. Much eludes us.<br />Merely translating the  hieroglyphics was truly not enough, however, since the hieroglyphs are not  only pictures (such as an owl), but also picture-signs used to convey the  sound and meaning just as our alphabet does for us. An owl, for example,  also stands for the letter &quot;m,&quot; just in case you're curious. It  does not end there, because there is also an inner meaning to the pictures,  so that it was not so much the cat, dog, or snake that was worshipped, but  the principle it represented; and that principle was, in turn, as aspect of  the greater creation or ultimate spirit. Our modern quest for the wisdom of  ancient Egypt centers on the true meaning of the symbolism, temples, tombs,  and pyramids of this enigmatic motherland. We know many Egyptian words that  express some degree of fear or happiness, but which one of these expresses  dread, anxiety or worry? How do we distinguish between ecstasy, delight,  joy, and jubilation?<br />Egyptologist Rosemary Clark, who reads Egyptian  hieroglyphics firsthand, examines the esoteric tradition of Egypt in  remarkable detail. She explores dimensions of the language, cosmology, and  temple life to show that a sacred mandate--the transformation of the human  condition into its original cosmic substance--formed the foundation of  Egypt's endeavors and still has relevance today.<br />As founder of the  Temple Harakhite, a group devoted to the experiential religious practices  of Egypt's Old Kingdom. She is well versed in hieroglyphic script, its  transliteration, and the translation of ancient texts, and in the  subtleties of Hermetic philosophy and Sacred Science.  I especially enjoyed  the history of the initiatory schools and the Mystery Tradition recorded in  ancient times and their methods of clairvoyance, prophecy and  healing.<br />Clark quotes R. A. Schwaller de Lubicz from &quot;Esotericism  &amp; Symbol.&quot; He said, &quot;Initiation does not reside in any text  whatsoever, but in the cultivation of intelligence of the heart. Then there  is no longer anything occult or secret, because the intention of the  enlightened, the prophets, and the &quot;messengers from above&quot; is  never to conceal--quite the contrary.&quot;<br />This is the time of  revelation of all occult secrets.tion of the human  condition into its original cosmic substance--formed the foundation of  Egypt's endeavors and still has relevance today. <br />As founder of the  Temple Harakhite, a group devoted to the experiential religious practices  of Egypt's Old Kingdom. She is well versed in hieroglyphic script, its  transliteration, and the translation of ancient texts, and in the  subtleties of Hermetic philosophy and Sacred Science.  I especially enjoyed  the history of the initiatory schools and the Mystery Tradition recorded in  ancient times and their methods of clairvoyance, prophecy and  healing.<br />Clark quotes R. A. Schwaller de Lubicz from &quot;Esotericism  &amp; Symbol.&quot; He said, &quot;Initiation does not reside in any text  whatsoever, but in the cultivation of intelligence of the heart. Then there  is no longer anything occult or secret, because the intention of the  enlightened, the prophets, and the &quot;messengers from above&quot; is  never to conceal--quite the contrary.&quot;<br />This is the time of  revelation of all occult secrets.	2000-09-14
US	51721357	R1DY55LYBS4GTA	1567187412	209943537	Sexual Alchemy: Magical Intercourse with Spirits	Books	5	116	124	N	N	An astonishing secret revealed	Someone once told me that even if all the secrets and books in the world  were destroyed, folks would find some way of rediscovering them. Among some  of these secret hidden documents is one that has not been seriously pursued  before because of its potent and jealously guarded occult mystery-how to  use the forces liberated by the union with spiritual beings for  self-transformation. Tyson is going beyond Tantra here, but he discusses  both Tantra and the Tao as background for the second part of the book,  which gives the practical exercises.<br />Donald Tyson writes broadly on the  arcane arts, including &quot;New Millennium Magic,&quot; &quot;Three Books  of Occult Philosophy,&quot; &quot;Ritual Magic,&quot; and  &quot;Tetragrammaton.&quot; In this latest book, &quot;Sexual  Alchemy,&quot; he writes about a system of rituals magic that allows you to  discover a sexual spiritual union far surpassing the pleasures of physical  sex. He considers how to achieve a satisfying sexual and loving union with  a spirit who is an active agent of the Goddess, the creative mother of the  universe; various techniques for creating a homunculus (an artificial  human); rituals to encourage the movement of your kundalini energy; and  some explicit magical sexual practices, including the use of the Oil, the  White Powder, and the Red Powder.<br />Those of you who are familiar with the  Golden Dawn rituals including the Middle Pillar exercise will find the  practices easy, but don't worry if you haven't read them, for you will find  Tyson's procedures extremely clear and straightforward. The ability to make  sigils (signs that represent the spirit), to translate names, and to  contact the spirits is laid out precisely. <br />Of particular interest was  the chapter in choosing a lover by working with telesmatic images building  up the body shape, facial features, and overt personality traits for a  spirit based solely on its name, or its function in the world. This is not  to bypass the recognized historical form and attributes of a deity or other  well-known spiritual being, however, major gods and goddesses have some  drawbacks as love partners since they have such a long history and have  been known by thousands of people over so many centuries they have acquired  a kind of inertia tending to make them unresponsive on a personal level.  So, a secondary or telesmatic image is more often desirable. Tyson has also  included a history of erotic unions between humans and gods, angels,  demons, and spirits.	2000-09-13
US	51721357	R3ESP3DOG57CQC	1578631351	416546303	The Wicca Handbook	Books	5	52	55	N	N	Gourmet Wicca	The Wicca Handbook Eileen Holland<br />Eileen Holland seems to be the Julia Childs of gourmet Wicca. So many books I have read on Wicca craft indicate the spells, herbs, candles and other articles necessary for the altar, but  none of them seem to be as chock full of handy information as &quot;The  Wicca Handbook.&quot; Her extraordinarily complete tables of  correspondences may not be as comprehensive as Aleister Crowley's  encyclopedic &quot;777&quot; or &quot;Magick, Book 4,&quot; but she honors  her mentor upon whose book she has based her work, Starhawk (&quot;The  Spiral Dance&quot;). Her bibliography displays firm and dependable sources;  otherwise, this would simply be another book of mixed puddings and confused  recipes.<br />The spell tutorials are easy to follow and extremely easy to  adapt to your present circumstances. Everything a beginner or an  experienced practitioner might need is indicated, beginning with a Book of  Shadows through the variations of invocations to the god/dess. Love, for  instance, has 24 spells. Her comments on ethics and superstitions are  humorous and pertinent and she cautiously warns of the problems and  difficulties in casting the wrong spells. Blessed Be.	2000-07-31
US	51721357	R18X66AFC1V4UB	1578631394	880828545	Mudras: Yoga in Your Hands	Books	4	96	98	N	N	Finger Language	It is a joy to read Gertrud Hirschi, a well-known Swiss yoga teacher and author of Basic Yoga for Everybody, who presents her material in clear, concise terms and uncomplicated pictures, along with suggested affirmations  and meditation. <br />In Buddhism and Hinduism, mudras are a ritual of  symbolic gestures, postures and body movements designed to aid one in  preventing physical and emotional illness and in promoting spiritual  development. It is believed to lock intensive and dense psychic energy into  the body by engaging certain areas of the brain to exercise an influence on  it. Our body language clearly reveals our attitudes and moods; whether we  are slouching in defeat or head held high in victory. If that is so, then  why not reverse the procedure and use these gestures to promote  fearlessness, energy, sexuality and serenity? That is the theory and the  effectiveness of this work. Just as athletes visualize their games in their  minds before they play, so Hirschi will show you how to perform even  greater miracles with your mind and body. Furthermore, you can perform  these anywhere: at a stressful business meeting, sitting in a sauna, or  commuting on a bus or train. (No, you can't drive a car, talk on your cell  phone and do mudras at the same time.)<br />Gertrud Hirschi includes herbal  and nutritional suggestions in appendices, and even suggestions for  creating your own mudras for whatever purposes you desire.	2000-07-29
