US	51725921	R27NSBUZGHPAPE	0262692996	481764037	Leonardo's Laptop: Human Needs and the New Computing Technologies (MIT Press)	Books	1	21	24	N	N	repetitive, but somehow doesn't say anything	Schneiderman's \\"Leonardo's Laptop\\" is singularly disappointing.  Promising to raise our expectation of what we should get from technology, he instead uses a forced extended metaphor in the form of Leonardo da Vinci.  What would Leonardo do?, we are repeatedly asked.  Schneiderman attempts to answer the question.  Sadly, his answers are neither new nor groundbreaking.  I cannot believe that Leonardo would simply recount solutions that are already available and attempt to make such solutions sound visionary and forward-thinking. <br /> <br />The chapters in the book discuss the issues with usability today, activites and relationships, and attempt to discuss future directions in several fields: government, healthcare, business, and education.  In these chapters, Schneiderman uses feel-good buzzwords like 'empowering' and 'enabling', but never moves beyond the feel-good buzzwords to suggest real solutions.  In most cases, he suggests solutions that are already implemented; in others, he simply waves his hands at the problem and says that there has to be a solution. <br /> <br />Each chapter concludes with a skeptic's corner.  This section could easily be re-labelled the strawman's corner.  In that section, he constructs arguments that skeptics might use, but he must assume that skeptics are uniformly moronic.  The so-called skeptical arguments are drawn with exceptionally rough strokes, which he dispenses of with little regard to very real concerns that can and should be discussed.   <br /> <br />I had high hopes for this book.  I wanted something that pushed the boundaries.  I wanted something visionary.  Instead, I got a repetitive book that somehow didn't say anything.  I can only hope that future works give us something better than this.	2005-06-21
US	51725921	RO56GOAY7Z4W8	0060512806	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	immensely satisfying	I bought \\"Cryptonomicon\\" after I finished \\"The Diamond Age\\" by the same author.  However, this book sat unread in my to-read pile for more than a year.  After I started it, I wondered aloud why I had waited so long to start it; when I finished it, I flipped back to the first page and began re-reading it.  Although the 900+ pages are daunting to see in your to-read pile, the book is immensely satisfying. <br /> <br />Stephenson crafts a tale of the past and present.  About half of the story takes place before and during World War II; the other half follows the descendants of the characters from the other half in their struggles in the present-day.  Each chapter follows a different character, and the book weaves the chapters from the past and present flawlessly.  We see how characters interact, and can draw parallels between the present characters and their ancestors.  We see how events from the past shape today, in ways both readily apparent and more difficult to ascertain. <br /> <br />Now that I have finished this book, I'm off to dive into his latest series, which I understand has some characters and themes in common with this book.  It certainly has the length in common, but I'm looking forward to another well-crafted story.	2004-10-12
US	51725921	RUU07N0YMXEQJ	0553574027	670191311	Antarctica: A Novel	Books	3	7	10	N	N	the Mars trilogy, set in Antartica, and trimmed to one book	The title of this review is an accurate summation of my opinion of the book: it is, in all important aspects, nothing more than a retelling of the groundbreaking Mars trilogy (&quot;Red Mars&quot;, &quot;Green Mars&quot;, and &quot;Blue Mars&quot;). Robinson chose to set this novel in Antartica, and trimmed the page count down to a single book.  <br />  <br /> The book has strong points. Cutting the basic story back to a single book removes some of Robinson's worst excesses in the Mars trilogy. The handwaving about perfect communist communities is reduced to a tolerable level. Unnecessary technical details are kept to a minimum; there is just enough to make the story accessible to an audience that is not familiar with the technology used in ultra-cold conditions. <br />  <br /> The book also has weak points. Cutting the basic story back to a single book removes much of the exposition and character development. Details about Wade's life in DC are given, but they never come into play again. The ecoteur is barely sketched. In the final third of the book, we suddenly find a group of people who have gone native in Antartica; this group is used as a deus ex machina to save many of the main characters. X goes from a whiner who can't get over Val to a well-spoken organiser of a co-operative enterprise.  <br />  <br /> The book isn't a bad one. It feels jagged in places, and certainly could have used a fair amount of additional exposition. The story moves along pretty well (and certainly better than the Mars trilogy does). If you have read the Mars trilogy, you can safely skip this novel. If you read this book and like it well enough, you should read the whole Mars trilogy to see where Robinson takes the ideas.	2004-07-31
US	51725921	R24Z4R7IMPKRZD	0802713521	894540459	E = mc2: A Biography of the World's Most Famous Equation	Books	4	0	1	N	N	meandering history of relativity	In this slim and easy-to-read volume, David Bodanis gives us a meandering history of relativity.  First, he looks at each of the individual pieces of the equation (even the equals sign gets its own chapter).  Then, he builds up a discussion of other relevant work that led to Einstein's famous equation.  He next discusses its applications.  The book closes with an immense amount of back matter, including the footnotes and suggested further reading on the topic.<br />This book is not for physics students who are already intimately familiar with the requisite mathematics and physics.  It is intended for a general audience that probably can't remember calculus (or was never introduced to it in the first place).  Bodanis engages in a bit of handwaving to make the more difficult parts easier to accept; in general, he acknowledges this.  I can't fault him for this decision, although the mathematician in me occasionally found it a bit frustrating.  <br />Make sure that you read the footnotes!  It's not necessary to flip back and forth between the main text and the footnotes, but at least read them when you've reached the end of the chapter.  Scan past the ones that are simply listing the source material, and read the ones that are longer.  There's a lot of great information to be found in those footnotes that doesn't quite fit into the main text.  Some of it tells you a bit about what was going through the author's mind when he wrote his book, other material elaborates on what is in the book.  <br />Also, read through the list of suggested readings.  It's like getting book recommendations from a well-read friend.  The suggestions are thorough, insightful, and often entertaining.	2004-06-14
US	51725921	RCYW2UGP65S2Q	0385489765	253875157	High-Tech Heretic: Reflections of a Computer Contrarian	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a hard look at computers in the classroom	In this slim volume, Stoll gives us a skeptical look at computing in the classroom.  He unflinchingly questions the assumptions thrown around by the proponents of the technology.  This isn't a scholarly work, and isn't trying to be such.  If you have ever had doubts about the efficacy of computers in the classroom, this is an excellent starter book.  Written in a light and breezy style, you can finish it in a few hours and have plenty of time to reflect on his opinions.  <br />Stoll asks important questions.  Why are we worried about digital literacy when our kids are barely literate at all?  Shouldn't we be more concerned with ensuring that they can construct an essay and do basic mathematics?  Is it more important for kids to learn how to make an effective oral presentation, or be able to put together a snazzy PowerPoint presentation?  <br />A few things about the book bothered me.  It occasionally was repetitive.  The light and breezy style was too breezy in some places.  I found it ironic that he complained about poor writing skills of schoolchildren, but consistently used incomplete sentences throughout the book.  I understand that it was a stylistic choice, but it was a choice that annoyed me.  <br />In all, I would recommend it to anyone who has encountered computers in the classroom.  Society needs to seriously consider why we have invested so much time, effort, and money to wire all of our classrooms.  Could that money have been more effectively spent on more teachers, more varied educational programs, more musical instruments?	2004-06-03
US	51725921	R964EGG0Y0NAQ	0399149864	919064525	Pattern Recognition	Books	4	3	4	N	N	the patterns of marketing and image	Gibson takes us on a relatively sedate (for Gibson, anyway) tour of marketing and image.  His main character, Cayce Pollard, is a 'cool-hunter'.  She has an exquisite sense of what will sell and (more importantly) what won't.  For all of her talent, she cannot handle strong marketing images, and has a severe reaction if exposed to some of the more obnoxious forms of marketing.  <br />Outside of her work, Cayce is drawn to 'the footage': mysterious bits of a film that make their way to the Internet.  The footage is endlessly discussed on an Internet forum, as people deconstruct the existing pieces and hope to find more pieces.  <br />Cayce is hired to determine who is actually behind the footage.  A powerful executive is interested in the footage for the branding and marketing that it has developed.  It is well-known, but its popularity is purely from word-of-mouth.  It has hundreds of fervent followers, all hoping to figure out what is the message behind the footage.  The executive reasons that there must be something to be mined here, some way to make more money.  <br />Cayce sets off on a journey to unravel the mystery.  She does unravel the mystery, travelling through Europe, Japan, and Russia to track it down.  The creation of the footage turns out to be a mysterious, almost mystical process (which I won't spoil here).  <br />The book is well-written and moves along briskly.  I wasn't entirely satisfied with the resolution of the mystery; it just seems a bit too far out there to be believable.  I did not like the last few pages of the book, which read like an epilogue to show the reader that everything worked out perfectly fine.  The ending, especially the last few pages, keep me from giving this book a fifth star.  It's a good book, but not a great one.	2004-05-17
US	51725921	R2NMH3I98IAMM1	0809058405	246141487	Innumeracy: Mathematical Illiteracy and Its Consequences	Books	3	109	123	N	N	interesting book, but lacking focus	The problem that resulted in this book is far-reaching: the public simply doesn't understand mathematics.  Statistics, ranging from a 10%-off sale to the sort found in opinion polls, are unfathomable to the general populace.  Probability, especially in the context of gambling, is understood by only a scant handful of people.  The list of misunderstood mathematics is nearly endless.  <br />In the first few chapters of the book, Paulos describes various issues that the innumerate (that is, those who don't understand numbers and math) often have issues understanding.  He describes the issue to a reasonable level of detail, then derives answers for them.  Don't let the use of the word 'derive' scare you off: the answers are readable and readily understandable to a general audience.  In some cases, if you're really rusty, you might need to read them a second time to grasp the solution.  <br />Later chapters, however, are not written for the innumerate.  They are attempts to convince the reader that mathematical education needs to be improved.  I think that everyone agrees that education should be improved, but he offers suggestions that are impractical or nonsensical.  <br />Ultimately, the problem of this book is a lack of focus. Paulos could have written either a book that tackles basic mathematical issues that the general public doesn't understand, or he could have written a book that describes the consequences of innumeracy.  He tried to do both, and stuffed both topics into a single slim volume.  In doing so, he shortchanges both audiences.  The result is a book that is good, but does not fully address the needs of anyone.  <br />If you find yourself uncomfortable with mathematics, pick up a copy of this book and read up to chapter five.  If you are comfortable with mathematics and are looking for fodder to prove the point that improving mathematical knowledge at any level is productive, this book will not serve your purpose.	2004-03-08
US	51725921	R1MXIZPMNR6LSD	0553573861	755271511	Zodiac	Books	4	4	5	N	N	excellent thriller	In some ways, this book is wholly unlike the rest of Stephenson's work.  It is not a cyberpunk novel, unlike the seminal &quot;Snow Crash&quot; and &quot;The Diamond Age&quot;.  But, in may respects, it is exactly like the rest of his work: well-written and superbly detailed.  <br />&quot;Zodiac&quot; is an eco-thriller set in Boston.  Through the eyes of ST, an environmentalist who is more than a little bit of a jerk, a mystery unravels as ST tracks down who is responsible for a particular pollution of Boston Harbor.  <br />I have to admit that I was a bit concerned about reading an eco-thriller, since some in the genre are quite heavy-handed with their pro-environmental message.  I shouldn't have been worried: Stephenson is a deft writer, and the novel never feels overbearing or preachy.<br />If you have already read some of Stephenson's other work, you need to be aware that this is not a cyberpunk novel.  It is good in its own right, but there isn't a hacker to be found.  Hackers may appreciate ST's anti-establishment attitudes, though.	2004-01-18
US	51725921	RMZZPVU7216BG	0201788888	50105577	A Pattern Language for Web Usability	Books	1	9	11	N	N	this book does not contain patterns	The title of this book is promising.  However, the promise does not hold.  The author clearly does not understand patterns or a pattern language.  The so-called patterns given here are not patterns in any way.  Instead, they are an attempt at a roadmap for the design of a website.  I would refer to the design methodology here as a flowchart, not as a pattern language.  (And how can a computer scientist mistake a flowchart for a pattern language?)<br />If you ignore the dreadful attempt at creating a pattern language and simply focus on the usability, the book is marginally better.  However, there is almost no focus on the user.  There are merely a few rules to follow that may or may not result in a usable website.  <br />If you are conversant with patterns from the seminal &quot;Design Patterns&quot; by the Gang of Four (Gamma, Helm, Johnson, Vlissides), do not purchase this book.  I have not yet found a reasonable book that discusses patterns as applied specifically to web usability.  Most of the books in this field either miss the point of patterns or are not conversant with usability.  <br />If you are new to usability in general, I would recommend Barnum's &quot;Usability Testing and Research&quot;.  It gives you the necessary background, plus can be used as a handbook to design your own usability test.  It is an excellent introduction to the subject.<br />If you are a bit more experienced with usability, but not necessarily with the special considerations for websites, I would recommend Nielsen's &quot;Designing Web Usability&quot;.  It is a much better-written book and describes the necessary concepts much better than this one.<br />If you are simply looking for a book because you've heard that 'patterns' and 'usability' will help your career, read through the books that I've listed above, in the order that I've listed them.	2004-01-03
US	51725921	R1PFBK69CC6K67	0609809911	524612057	The Tenacity of the Cockroach: Conversations with Entertainment's Most Enduring Outsiders	Books	4	8	8	N	N	like being at a cocktail party full of interesting people	I wasn't entirely certain if I would like this book.  Could a collection of interviews, more than a few of which I've read before, really be all that interesting?  A few interviews into the book, and I knew that the answer was yes. <br />Reading this book is like being at a cocktail party full of interesting people.  Some of them are interesting for what they have done, some are interesting for what they have learned, some are interesting for how they have evolved and changed, and some are interesting because they're such flaming jerks.  And like a cocktail party that you attend with a friend who provides running commentary on the people you meet, &quot;Weird Al&quot; Yankovich provides sidebars to several of the interviews with his impressions of and experiences with the interviewee.  Also like a cocktail party, there is a recurring theme of someone whose story to which you keep on returning to hear where it has progressed: the comic geniuses behind the HBO sketch comedy show &quot;Mr Show&quot; provide five separate interviews through the course of their show's tenure on HBO.<br />My favourite interviews were those with Henry Rollins (whose interview provides the title for the collection), Berkeley Breathed, Joan Jett, David Lee Roth, both halves of Penn and Teller, KRS-One, and Alice Cooper.  I could name my least favourite interviews, but these interviews were not least favourite because of the interview itself.  Rather, they were not as interesting because the subject turned out to be a flmaing jerk, but not enough of a jerk to be funny.  <br />This is an interesting roadtrip through pop culture.  I didn't read it all in one setting, but rather between other things.  It's not deep or meaningful (although the book does close out with a collection of interviews with several people who had positive messages), but it is entertaining and often hilarious.	2003-06-23
US	51725921	R25ATKNX3IQ2SX	0205315194	916123064	Usability Testing and Research (Part of the Allyn & Bacon Series in Technical Communication)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Excellent introduction to usability testing	Most of the existing books about usability testing are ten years old.  While these books have a lot to offer a current student of user-centred design and usability testing, some students find them too out-of-date to be taken seriously.  This book addresses that issue.  The audience for the book is clearly for those who are new to usability and usability testing.  However, experienced professionals will find a fair amount of information that is useful to them as well.  <br />The first four chapters form an introduction to user-centred design: definitions, testing models, other methods for gathering usability data, user analysis, task analysis, and prototyping.  The remaining chapters discuss the process of usability testing itself: planning the test, preparing for the test, and conducting the test.  One interesting chapter discusses a topic that is usually overlooked in the other usability literature: analysing the data and writing the report.  This chapter also discusses the Common Industry Format for reporting usability results.  The inclusion of this discussion increases the usefulness of this book for usability professionals.<br />Dr Barnum devotes a chapter to the sometimes nebulous topic of usability testing for the web.  Although there are other books that discuss this topic alone, the inclusion of this material in this book is excellent.  Students who are new to usability testing will find this book more useful than a book devoted solely to web usability testing.  After completing this, a student can then go on to read web-specific books such as Nielsen's recent &quot;Designing Web Usability&quot;.  <br />Students and others learning about the field will find the extensive examples used throughout the book to be extremely helpful.  Together, these examples provide sufficient material for a student to model their complete usability test, from planning to reporting the results.  Additional examples are available on a website maintained by the publisher.  Theseexamples are less useful for current practicioners, but do not detract from the overall text for this audience.  <br />For those who are interested in this field, this book an excellent introduction.  It is well-written, and the examples provide a cookbook for students to emulate.  Experienced professionals will probably not find this book to be as useful as a new student, although it is a very useful refresher.  <br />Disclaimer: I am a past student of Dr Barnum's, and the work that my student team produced for her class is used in this book.  I am now a human factors engineer for a large corporation.  I keep this book on my shelf in my office, and often lend it out to our interns who are learning about this field.	2003-06-23
US	51725921	R5GBX0P1JYX8D	0380973642	26552478	Smoke & Mirrors: Short Fictions and Illusions	Books	5	9	10	N	N	riveting collection of stories	I have a love-hate relationship with Neil Gaiman.  I love his work.  His diction is always impeccable, always inspired.  But I hate that I somehow lose a day when I start reading one of his books.  I get so wrapped up in the story, in the world that he weaves, that I cannot put the book down.<br />I started reading this short story collection thinking that this may be the solution to my love-hate relationship.  I could not have been more wrong.  Even when the story is a mere hundred words (as is 'Nicholas Was ...'), I simply could not stop reading.  After each story, I would pause to shiver or reflect (or, often, both).  Occasionally, I would flip back to the beginning to read the introduction where the author discusses each story and how it came about.  Then, I would plunge into the next story.  I finished the book in less than a day, including flipping back and reading several stories again.<br />This collection of short stories is an excellent introduction to the world of Neil Gaiman.  One of the strengths of the author is showing an alternate perspective.  You could look at each of these stories (including the one buried in the introduction) as doing just that.  The haunting 'Nicholas Was ...' and 'Snow, Glass, Apples' show us that maybe Santa Claus isn't a jolly old man and that maybe Snow White wasn't an innocent pure girl driven out by an evil uncaring stepmother. <br />Individually, each of the stories is an excellent example of what comes off of a gifted writer's pen (or keyboard, as it were).  Together, this collection is riveting and engaging.  In the years to come, I am sure that I will pull this book off my shelf often to read a story or two (or all of them) again.	2003-05-05
US	51725921	R19VHIAX5BRAL2	0521802121	18145617	Language and the Internet	Books	3	4	4	N	N	much-needed academic discussion of online language	David Crystal, one of the world's eminent linguists, has given us a desperately-needed academic resource: this text. Although, as other reviewers have pointed out, some of the conclusions drawn are fairly obvious, this text is useful to have such conclusions stated concisely, in a single location, by a recognised linguist.<br />The book discusses the effects of the Internet on language, specifically English. Anyone who has spent any length of time online has noted that the language used online is a strange mix of formal and informal, abbreviations and highly-specialised jargon. How does this effect the language as a whole? Crystal does not pretend to answer this question, but raises questions for later research.<br />As with any book that discusses an aspect of the Internet, some pieces of the book are out-of-date. Search engines are more robust than when Crystal surveyed them. MUDs are essentially dead, replaced in part by massively-multiplayer online games that have their own linguistic ramifications. <br />In all, this book is an interesting and clearly-written broad introduction to the application of linguistics to the Internet. It is not an advanced text, although the nearly-exhaustive footnotes and citations are an excellent resource for a reader who would like to learn more.	2003-04-23
US	51725921	R1VUNR95UQSUAC	0553280643	542044764	The Gate to Women's Country	Books	4	2	4	N	N	well-written post-apocolypse tale	Tepper's tale of a post-apocolypse society is well-written.  The story centres around Stavia, a woman in Women's Country.  At the beginning of the story, we see Stavia's 15-year-old son renounce his mother and become a warrior.  Tepper expertly weaves adult Stavia's life as a Councilwoman practicing for a play, the play itself, and flashbacks to Stavia's childhood.<br />Adult Stavia is a Councilwoman for Marthastown in Women's Country.  In Marthastown, as in all other towns in Women's Country, the women live inside the walls of the town.  Warriors live in a garrison outside the town to protect it.  When women have male children, they send them at five years old to their warrior fathers.  The warriors, women, and children have a carnival twice a year; outside of this biannual celebration, the warriors and women have little contact.  At age fifteen, the boys are given an opportunity to return to the city as servitors.  At age twenty-five, the boys become full warriors, able to take part in wars against other towns.<br />The story explores the complex relationship between the women, servitors, and warriors.  As each piece of the puzzle falls into place, we see how the women plan to use evolution to save the world from another nuclear apocolypse.  <br />This book warrants a very close read.  Details which seem unimportant are major clues to the scheme revealed at the end.  I did not consider the tone to be overly obnoxious, although the tone is definitely feminist.	2003-04-03
US	51725921	R1CZQDWC0QHGRM	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	engrossing story of anguish, set in one of the best SF world	In 'Hyperion', we are introduced to seven pilgrims making their way to see the Shrike, also known as the Lord of Pain.   Each has an intensely personal reason for making this pilgrimage.  Together, they may be able to stop the entire galaxy from erupting in interstellar war.<br />The book primarily consists of the tales of the pilgrims, as they explain to their fellow travellers why they were chosen to go.  All of the stories are fascinating; two of them are utterly unforgettable.  As their stories unfold, we get a view of the galaxy as a whole and their corner of the galaxy in particular.<br />All told, the book is extremely well-written.  The individual tales of the travellers could easily have been separate novellas.  In between the tales of the travellers, the story progresses naturally.  The story ends, leaving you hanging.  Do the pilgrims meet the Shrike?  Will any of them survive?  <br />I don't know the answer to this question yet, as I haven't read the next book in the series.  I am extremely glad that the person who gave me this book gave me all four books in the series, instead of leaving me to have to wait to find out what happens next.	2003-02-10
US	51725921	R206PBPRUN52KK	B000065V2I	398028963	Little Green Men	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Hysterical romp through conspiracy theories	The conspiracy theorists are right: the government is hiding something from us.  According to Christopher Buckley, the big secret is this: the government is responsible for the reports of alien activity.  The super-secret organisation known as MJ-12 flattens fields and abducts lonely housewives.  <br />One night, Nathan gets fed up with his lack of advancement.  Drunk, he decides to abduct John Oliver Banion, a successful political talk-show host.  After the second abduction, Banion goes public with his experiences, resulting in the loss of his entire life.  Banion is approached by other UFO abductees, all of whom he vaguely feels as if they're just lonely people who need some excitement in their lives.  However, he can't deny his own experiences, and continues to attempt to force Congress into conducting hearings.  Finally, he organises a march on Washington.<br />Watching the monster he has created, and disgraced from MJ-12, Nathan tries to fix the situation.  He and Banion team up and take on the government's only secret.<br />In this book, Buckley skewers everyone from the government to UFO fanatics.  Although his targets are relatively easy to take to task, his deft handling of the story has laugh-out-loud results.  I devoured this book overnight.  When I was finished, a friend immediately borrowed it after noticing how hard I was laughing.  It is a great light-hearted read.	2002-09-07
US	51725921	R1K60PWYT09I15	0380977788	425362981	Coraline	Books	5	104	114	N	Y	deliciously creepy	Neil Gaiman is a master storyteller.  His diction is perfect.  He does not waste words, but is not miserly with them either.  His descriptions never fail to rouse a knowing nod and smile from the reader.  Even when writing a quick throwaway piece in his journal...his style is impeccable.  <br />For this novel, Neil sets his eyes on another audience: young adults.  He gives children (or, as he has said, 'strange little girls of all ages and genders' - a nod to his friend Tori Amos and her 2001 \\"Strange Little Girls\\" album) a deliciously creepy novel about a girl, a new flat, and her other mother.  <br />Coraline (not Caroline, even though all of the adults who live in the other flats keep on saying it that way and ignoring her corrections) and her parents move into a new home.  One day, she pesters her father one too many times, so he sends her off on an expedition: find the water heater, count everything blue, count all the doors and windows.  She does so, and is shocked to find that there are 13 doors that open and one that doesn't.  She asks her mother what is behind the 14th door, and is told that it was bricked over when the house was broken up into flats.  Her mother unlocks the door to show her this, but doesn't lock it again.<br />Later, Coraline creeps back, and finds that the door opens into another flat.  It is just like her own, but not quite.  In her room (green and pink, not boring like her own), she finds the sorts of clothing that she thinks she would have if she could pick out her own wardrobe -- not a grey school skirt, but costumes.  In the kitchen, she finds her other parents -- not her real parents who work and don't play with her, but other parents who cook real food (not something from a \\"recipe\\" involving tarragon and butter beans) and dote upon her.  Coraline knows that this is not right, and returns to her own flat.<br />Thus begins Coraline's adventure.  The other mother steals Coraline's parents.  Coraline returns to the other flat to getthem back.  Along the way, she makes friends with the most sarcastic of cats and finds the ghosts of other children who were stolen away by the other mother.  <br />Gaiman's mastery of timing has never been shown so well than in this novel.  Just when things are getting really scary, he breaks in with a droll and dry line that makes the reader laugh.  This is a novel that is just begging to be read aloud -- as Neil Gaiman himself did on 02 July 2002 in Berkeley, California.  His audience, around 500 people, hung on his every word.  The adults in the audience were just as delighted as the children to have someone read such a delicious story to them.  If you dislike reading aloud, you can always buy the audio CD (complete, unabridged) version of this story.	2002-07-03
US	51725921	R3NTYZH50PNMEZ	0380715430	101867755	The Mother Tongue - English And How It Got That Way	Books	4	10	15	N	N	entertaining introduction to etymology	Bill Bryson, better known for his travelogues, writes a fascinating (and not-quite-correct) introduction to English etymology.  Besides exploring the origins of the language, it also traces the varieties of English.  <br />His explorations of American and British slang are the most complete and correct.  When straying further than those, however, he misses the mark.  His grasp of Australian grammar and slang shows that he's been there (which is certainly better than others who have commented on it), but only as a tourist.  Live there, and you'll find a very different linguistic Australia.  <br />Like Bryson's travel writing, this book isn't so much a cohesive piece of writing as it is a series of well-written anecdotes.  There are some places where the continuity is somewhat lacking.  However, this didn't particularly annoy me.  <br />This is a great light-hearted read.  It's certainly not a scholarly work, and doesn't attempt to be.  I won't nit-pick its accuracy, since I don't think that's fair here.  It's a good jumping-off point for learning more about this muddled language.	2002-01-21
US	51725921	R3QRFZ3WETM8TG	0380816555	83189557	Practical Demonkeeping: A Comedy of Horrors	Books	3	2	4	N	N	a convoluted tale	&quot;Practical Demonkeeping&quot; is a story of a man, his demon, and the small California town they stumble upon one afternoon.  <br />The story is certainly interesting, but it is unnecessarily convoluted.  I couldn't help but think, while reading this novel, that there are enough interesting characters and subplots to make at least a second book.  With some judicious editing, this would be a much better story.  As it stands now, it is readable but not engrossing.  As it was Moore's debut novel, I hope that his writing style is tighter in subsequent novels.  <br />This didn't put me off of reading more of Moore's novels, but it doesn't have me rushing out to buy them either.	2001-12-16
US	51725921	RSRGM24K5GT0B	0385490445	107805179	Alias Grace: A Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	N	fascinating exploration of a real-life trial	This novel is based on a true story.  In the mid-1800s, Grace Marks, a young Canadian housemaid, was tried and jailed for the murder of her employer and another co-worker.  However, it was never clear whether Grace took part in the murders or not -- she claimed to have no memory of the incident, and the only other witness was the other murderer.<br />Atwood takes this story and adds her own touches.  Atwood picks up the story many years later, as Grace is serving out her sentence.  She adds a young psychiatrist who is attempting to break through Grace's amnesia.  We see the world through Grace's eyes, as she interacts with this doctor and with the others in her life, as she remembers her life.  <br />Atwood never answers the question of whether Grace was actually a murderer.  Although some find this disappointing, I think it is a fitting conclusion to the story.	2001-12-16
US	51725921	R39PV2N1PBV2U7	0671318314	250377966	Callahan's Lady	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Spider writes great short stories	If you treat this book not as a novel, but as a collection of short stories on a recurring theme with recurring characters, it works much better. As a complete novel, though, Spider lacks a cohesive plot. <br />The story of the Lady Callahan, wife of the legendary Mike Callahan and time-traveller, is by turns thoughtful and hilarious. Spider makes a whorehouse sound like a great place to spend an afternoon, and an even better place to live out your career. The chapters (that is, the individual stories) tell of grand stories of the exploits of the employees and patrons of Lady Sally's House. <br />Ever think that a book about a whorehouse couldn't have a happy ending? Think again.<br />Fans of humourous science fiction will likely enjoy this addition to Spider's popular series of books about Mike and Sally Callahan. For someone who has never read any of Spider's work, &quot;Time Travellers Strictly Cash&quot; is a better introduction to the series. Alternately, the short story collection &quot;User Friendly&quot; shows some of Spider's best non-Callahan work.	2001-12-13
US	51725921	REZFUDEJVVP2M	0385312202	620964145	Leaving Cold Sassy: The Unfinished Sequel to Cold Sassy	Books	3	28	30	N	N	I wish I could give two different ratings for this book	I wish I could give this book two different ratings.  As a sequel to &quot;Cold Sassy Tree&quot;, it fails miserably.  It is unevenly written, and the story just doesn't flow very well.<br />However, as a tribute to the author and the sensation she sparked with the original book, it succeeds magnificently.  Instead of learning what happens next to Will Tweedy, we learn about the author.  It is amazing to me that the author wrote the original text while fighting cancer.  I can barely manage to write a quick email when I just have a small cold!<br />If you are really expecting a sequel to &quot;Leaving Cold Sassy&quot;, you will be well-served to pass up this book.  If, however, you are interested in the author behind the book, you will find a reasonably satisfying answer to that question.	2001-12-13
US	51725921	R27P3OE9NMH8LM	0812571290	374457460	Factoring Humanity	Books	3	1	3	N	N	interesting idea, poor execution	The basic premise of the book is interesting: a signal comes to us from space, and we have no idea what it means.  One day, the signal stops.  One scientist, a psychologist named Heather Davis, figures it out, and we explore the implications.<br />Great idea.  The execution, however, is lacking.  The subplot about the accusations of sexual abuse is so poorly-done to make my skin crawl.  Heather's use of her discovery, and her revelations surrounding it, are either entirely too simplistic or so far-fetched to be unreadable.<br />Although disappointing, the book is certainly readable.  Consider it light fare to get you through a cross-country air journey, or perhaps something to read while sitting in a doctor's waiting room.	2001-12-02
US	51725921	R11WWBTWMK2S8C	0767903862	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	4	4	5	N	N	amusing, although a bit uneven	Bill Bryson is the incredulous tourist, no matter where he goes. In this book, he sets his sights on Australia, that vast undiscovered and mostly-ignored continent-country in the Southern Hemisphere. <br />His descriptions of Australia, its people, flora, fauna, and landscape are by turns amusing and insightful. With wide-eyed wonder, he tells us the story of the Prime Minister who just disappeared into the surf, the American couple left behind on a diving expedition, and several stories of people just discovering something by walking through the bush. Imagine walking back into town with a 60-pound nugget of gold, that had just been sitting in the desert!<br />In some places, his writing is uneven. Sometimes we are walked though pages about something he finds interesting, but which made me yawn; other times he skips over what I think is fascinating. His humour makes up for the oversights, but these oversights keep me from giving the book a fifth star.<br />If you've ever lived in Australia, it's useful to see the country from an outsider's point of view. If you haven't been there, but would love to go, pick up this book for an entertaining introduction to the country. It's not a heavy-hitter, certainly not something you'd read if you want an introduction to Australia's vast history, but amusing and informative nonetheless.	2001-12-02
US	51725921	R2A5J3NCR790U4	076790382X	213092180	I'm a Stranger Here Myself: Notes on Returning to America After 20 Years Away	Books	3	0	0	N	N	mostly amusing	&quot;I'm a Stranger Here Myself&quot;, a collection of short essays written for a British audience about returning to the States after many years abroad, is mostly entertaining and amusing.  There are a few points where the author misses the point, or pontificates for just too long, but there are just as many times when I found myself laughing out loud.<br />The book is perhaps funniest to other Americans who have lived overseas for some period of time, and are now attempting to get used to American life again.	2001-10-01
US	51725921	R2X2ZRTZA7I8V8	0375704027	339664983	Norwegian Wood	Books	3	5	8	N	N	not as good as Murakami's other work	&quot;Norwegian Wood&quot; is the story of a young man growing up in Tokyo in the late 60s.  We see the evolution of the boy into a man, we see his relationships with others.  <br />The story starts out with the older Toru reminded of this time as he hears the Beatles song &quot;Norwegian Wood&quot; on an aircraft.  However, we never revisit this older Toru.  He is simply left by the wayside.  It seems odd to open the book with him, but to never have him come back into play.  <br />Murakami almost weaves the story with amazing alacrity.  But, in the end, he falls short.  Toru's dances with the other characters in the story (ranging from his Storm Trooper roommate to the elusive Naoko) ring not-quite-true.  <br />If you're a Murakami fan, this is a reasonably good book to read, if only to be reminded of how fabulous his other work is.  If you've never read Murakami before, start with one of his other works.  My favourite to date is &quot;South of the Border, West of the Sun&quot;, but that may change as I read more of his books.	2001-09-29
US	51725921	R2NATTSJQR0LCH	0198205600	671145815	Backing Hitler: Consent and Coercion in Nazi Germany (Oxford in Asia Historical Reprints)	Books	4	24	27	N	N	How much did the German people know?	&quot;Backing Hitler&quot; tackles a difficult question: how much did the German people know about what Hitler was actually doing to the groups he so zealously persecuted?  The answer to this, according to the author, is that they were well aware of what Hitler was doing.  <br />By examining the surviving newspapers, magazines, and dossiers from the police and Gestapo, the author explores what the German people knew, and how they participated in the Holocaust.  We learn, for example, that the Gestapo appears to have largely relied on denunciations from the public, not its own research and intelligence.  <br />The mathematician in me would like to have seen more discussion of the sampling techniques used in the book.  In many cases where the author examined police dossiers, he said that he looked at &quot;every other&quot; file.  This raises many questions: what exactly does he mean by every other file?  What order were the files in: chronological, alphabetical, random, some ordering scheme he used while going through them?  This question is not answered.  With a good ordering, it would be trivial for him to adjust the files to give the results he wanted to &quot;prove&quot;.<br />Ignoring my reservations on the statistical methods used by the author, this book is an excellent discussion on the propaganda fed to the public.  It is not an introductory reader for those interested in Nazi Germany, but would make an excellent complement to a book collection with a heavy emphasis on that time period.	2001-09-17
US	51725921	RTMC1WCSWZPLD	0767905172	310021894	Jemima J: A Novel	Books	2	4	5	N	N	just too many happy coincidences	\\"Jemima J\\" is the story of Jemima Jones, an overweight columnist for an unheard-of newspaper in the UK.  She secretly lusts after Ben (one of her co-workers), but he never notices her as anything more than a friend.  <br />The first half of the book flows reasonably well.  The author either did her homework well, or has an amazing sense of empathy.  But after Ben leaves the newspaper to take a glamourous job on a television programme, the story falls apart, following one hard-to-believe event with another, with the author taking up threads of the storyline that had only been briefly mentioned, and completely dropping others.  <br />The Internet love that was only briefly discussed in early chapters suddenly figures prominently, and out of the blue, Jemima is going to meet him in Los Angeles.  Jemima has lost 100 pounds in 3 months.  The author notes that the trainer at Jemima's gym is worried about her sudden huge weight loss, but never says anything, and this is mysteriously never mentioned again.  Despite Ben being on a hugely-popular television programme, Jemima never watches (although it had been noted earlier how much time she spent watching television), so isn't aware of his success.  The much-lauded surprise ending is anything but a surprise...<br />All in all, it's a disappointing book.  Even ignoring all of the happy coincidences, the message that the book sends is anything but self-affirmating.  Jemima only finds friends after she becomes a size six.  Jemima's Internet love only loves her because of her figure.  Ben only notices her after she's lost the weight.  The ending of the book is hardly an ending, and the epilogue tacked on reads like a legal disclaimer.	2001-09-15
US	51725921	R3Q7X5YMDZU3GB	0553380958	445913	Snow Crash	Books	3	0	1	N	N	uneven writing mars an otherwise excellent book	Snow Crash is the tale of a future America that's so over-the-top that it's entirely believable. Our hero, Hiro Protagonist, navigates a franchised America, where everything (and I do mean everything) is part of a chain. In this America, he has to fight to stop a new virus, Snow Crash, from infecting both the hackers and the rest of the world.<br />This is where the writing is uneven. In his descriptions of future franchised-to-the-teeth America, his writing is impeccable and fresh.  But in his long-winded descriptions of the new virus, he delves into myth and theories of language that are better suited to an academic text than to a cyberpunk novel. The plot alternates between a breakneck pace and a long leisurely stroll. The strolls make you wonder what's happening elsewhere, because the real action can't possibly just stop while Hiro goes off and chats with his Librarian.<br />For all its flaws, it's a reasonably good book, and one that I always recommend to my geek friends, as one geek to another.	2001-09-11
US	51725921	R3HCZFYSZ5J57W	0786866586	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	4	2	3	N	N	a good book, but buy the paperback	I'm not particularly a Steve Martin fan.  But I'm not a Steve Martin hater, either.  I'm just not familiar with the vast majority of his work.  I picked up the book without expectations or reservations.  <br />I was sucked in immediately by the story, and by Martin's fabulous diction.  While occasionally I found his diction jarring, much of it was perfectly suited to the story at hand.  I think it's quite telling that several of the reviews use so many quotes from the book in their review.  <br />The story centres around Mirabelle, a girl who works the glove counter at Neiman Marcus.  The reader is introduced to Jeremy, a guy she meets at a Laundromat; Ray, an older man who sees her at the glove counter and asks her out; and Lisa, another Neiman employee whose schemes only involve breaking hearts.  Martin's writing is deft as he takes us through the dance of these four people.<br />For US$18, it's a bit stiff for such a quick and light read.  I definitely recommend it, but I wouldn't consider it something that simply must be added to anyone's collection.  Pick up the paperback instead of the hardcover, or check it out from your friendly local library.	2001-09-07
US	51725921	R3O7N0BL2SKA92	0380973650	337033298	American Gods	Books	5	15	20	N	N	a solid story	I've read comparisons of Neil Gaiman with Stephen King.  The comparison, I think, is unfair.  Both are good storytellers with a deft mastery of language and imagery.  However, unlike King, Gaiman does a much better job at taking us into that which lies beneath.  King only shows what is there (at least, what is there in his fantastic horrible world).  Gaiman takes us behind the scenes -- even, in this book, referring to it as Backstage.<br />That difference may seem trivial, but it is very important.  It makes Gaiman's work more readable, more interesting, more thought-provoking.<br />Gaiman loves looking at that which lies beneath, and &quot;American Gods&quot; is no exception.  This time around, he examines American belief in the form of the gods that were brought to this new land but, ultimately, were abandoned for the new gods of technology and pop culture.  We follow Shadow, an ex-con with a dead wife, through various American roadside attractions and through the living quarters of the old gods.  We watch as the final battle between the old and new builds up.<br />This is, so far, the best book that I've read this year.	2001-08-02
US	51725921	R1FHA6PS99JM3R	0441003257	624269601	Good Omens	Books	5	0	0	N	N	good fun	Terry Pratchett is the author of the hugely successful Discworld series.  Neil Gaiman is the author of the hugely successful Sandman series.  What happens when you put the two together?<br />You get one of the best science fiction books ever laid down in print.  Neil's dark humour and Terry's sheer inventive madness of Terry complement each other perfectly.  The book is a rollicking trip through the events leading up until the end of the world.  Even the introduction of characters is hilarious.  From beginning to end, this is a great read that I can't put down (even though I've read it several times).	2001-07-08
US	51725921	R1XN7JQVCX9KNS	0060950536	787514702	Taking Charge of Your Fertility: The Definitive Guide to Natural Birth Control and Pregnancy Achievement	Books	5	2	2	N	N	extremely informative	This book is an excellent read for women who, like me, were always kept at least slightly in-the-dark about how their bodies work.  Yes, I knew about the birds and the bees, but there was a lot of detail left out.  This book takes care of that detail, telling you how to read and chart your body's signs -- both for the prevention of pregnancy and for the attainment of pregnancy.	2001-07-08
US	51725921	R2QDMDTEP64LXA	0380789132	599210818	An Exchange of Hostages	Books	5	1	2	N	N	absorbing	This book is absorbing.  Andrej Koscuisko is a brilliant surgeon who has been sent to military installation to learn how to become a most refined torturer.  <br />Written from several points of view (that of Andrej himself, as well as of his fellow Student, his Tutor, and the two bond-involuntaries (slaves) assigned to him), we watch Andrej's evolution and, perhaps, devolution.  <br />The book is well-written, frightening, and I couldn't put it down.	2001-07-03
US	51725921	R3NIX7R8MUQ0TA	0452282128	540342564	Thirtynothing	Books	4	2	3	N	N	a good fun read	I picked up this book while in a black mood.  I started reading it, and was immediately sucked in.  I even did something I can't recall ever having done before: reading the last few pages before I finished the book.  I just had to know if it all worked out.  It's a romantic comedy, so of course it worked out.  But I still had to know.	2001-06-29
