US	51724757	R2JDC2CINY6F3I	1573223158	394899911	My Friend Leonard	Books	5	3	6	N	N	My Friend Leonard is an excellent book about friendship and	My Friend Leonard is a memoir covering the events of about 5 years in the life of James Frey.  It is a follow up to the best seller A Million Little Pieces.  Leonard is a mentor and a father figure to James and a known criminal. Yet, he exposes James to classic paintings and gives him advice like to live honorably and with dignity.<br /><br />One of my favorite parts in the book is where James celebrates his promotion from a cleaning person to a doorman in a bar by buying and eating cake.  Frey also writes very honestly about the anixety and fear he felt working for Leonard as a transporter picking up large amounts of money and delivering it to different places.<br /><br /> My Friend Leonard really moved me in some parts like when James learns that his girlfriend Lilly has committed suicide.  The pain from that personal loss prevented James from having successful close relationships with women for a long time.  Another event in this book that really touched me in this book is where James has to put his much loved pit bull dog to sleep.  I could relate to the pain he felt, because I had to the same thing to my dog.<br /><br /> The most important thing to remember after reading a book like My Friend Leonard is to live every day like it is your last, because you never know how much time left you have to live.  My Friend Leonard is an unique book about the things our friends can teach us about life,  It is also  about how to deal with personal loss in our lives. I really enjoyed it.	2005-10-11
US	51724757	RA3EN4D3WAST6	0307276902	641692200	A Million Little Pieces	Books	5	8	13	N	N	A Million Little Pieces is a honest and powerful book	A Million Little Pieces is a gripping account of the 6 weeks James Frey spent in a treatment center in Minnesota for his addiction to alcohol and other drugs.  The abuse of drugs can really ruin the body.  There is a very descriptive part in the book where Frey describes the painful experience he endured having several root canals done without anethesia to repair his damaged teeth.  The abuse of drugs can also damage the relationship a person has with their family.  One of the more moving parts of this book is where Frey confronts his parents in counseling to tell them about his drug use and drug dealing.<br /><br />They are heartbroken to hear about all the bad things their son has done, and they become closer as a result of his confession. This is a bit predictable, but it is still really moving to read.  I also think that Frey is very brutally honest as he describes a constant craving for alcohol and drugs while in rehab.<br /><br />Every patient at the treatment center has a job to perform, and I really reading how Frey's jobs changed while he was there.  He cleaned toilets in the beginning, and then he switched to making coffee.  He finally became a greeter in his last days.  Frey spends a lot of time describes the friendships he made while in the treatment center.  Having other people around him who were struggling with the same addictions  helped James get better.  I thought it was interesting that one of the patients and one of James' friends at the rehab center was a judge.  I really enjoyed reading about his friendship with a crime boss named Leonard who kept him in the program.  James Frey's romantic relationship with a woman  named Lilly who suffered from sexual and drug abuse was very sweet.<br /><br />I think the message of A Million Little Pieces is that a person can overcome their addiction to alcohol and drugs if they have  people who can support them, and if they are willing and determined enough.  I enjoyed reading this book very much.	2005-09-28
US	51724757	R3G3S2HNTV6FO5	0812972961	39564308	180 More: Extraordinary Poems for Every Day	Books	5	20	20	N	N	more poems please	I knew never that poetry could be so fun.  The poems in this book are about a wide variety of subjects that are enjoyable and easy to understand.  Jeep Cherokee by Bruce Jacobs is one of my favorite poems.  It is a poem about how a car is a symbol of freedom and adventure.  Jacobs explains how a car can often be  a reflection of a person's personality.<br /><br />The Cowardice of Husbands by David Kirby is another favorite of mine.  It is a poem  about how some husbands hate to do some things with their wives like go to plays, operas, and  sometimes even sit through poetry readings.  This poem is a honest and truthful opinion about the relationship between men and women.  Birthday Poem by Erin Murphy really sticks out too.  It is about a woman trying to remember the last name of her friend who died of breast cancer.  It is a very moving poem about about friendship and how much our friends mean to us.<br /><br />I really enjoyed the poem Dorie Off To Atlanta by Mark Halliday.  Reading this poem is like listening to a conversation between two girlfriends about a mutual friend  they have dating a great guy.  Valentine is a very clever poem by Carol Ann Duffy.  It is a poem about how she feels how  an onion would be a good gift to give someone for Valentine's Day.  I liked the originality of these two poems very much.<br /><br />Katia Kapovich's Painting A Room is a good example about how  doing something so ordinary can be symbolic and meaningful.  She dedicates this poem to her friend who paints her apartment in Russia before coming to America in 1989.  She reflects on her memories of living in the apartment like her past romances, old jobs, and night phone calls.  It is a very touching poem and one of my favorites.<br /><br />Eleven Thousand And One by Darcie Dennigan is a very lengthy poem about how a young woman celebrating her birthday in a bar with her girlfriends.  She compares the woman in this poem  named Ella with a Saint named Ursula.  Both characters encounter similar painful experiences with men.  I think Dennigan describes the parallels so well in her poem.<br /><br />I really enjoyed reading all the poems in this book.  Reading this book has inspired me to continue writing my own poetry and expressing my feelings in a creative way.  I hope Billy Collins puts out another collection of poems like this soon.th characters encounter similar painful experiences with men.     I think Dennigan describes the parallels so well in her poem. <br /> <br />I really enjoyed reading all the poems in this book.  Reading this book has inspired me to continue writing my own poetry and expressing my feelings in a creative way.  I hope Billy Collins puts out another collection of poems like this soon.	2005-05-04
US	51724757	R3DH1TISFRKQLP	0670033944	748214467	The Mermaid Chair: A Novel	Books	5	249	316	N	N	I love this book	The characters and setting in the Mermaid Chair are so well described by Sue Monk Kidd.  There are  universal themes in the novel of loneliness and sense of loss that can bring people together romantically.  The setting on the novel is Egret Island where the title object is located in a monastery.  It is believed that anyone who sits in the chair will have their prayers answered.<br /><br />The author does a great job at describing how a husband and wife can sometimes drift apart in a marriage.  She also  describes the pain of infidelity and betrayal so well.  The novel also addresses the importance of women to have friendship in their lives.  The  Mermaid Chair centers around a woman named Jessie who returns to her childhood home to care for her elderly mother after she mysteriously cuts off her finger.  Jessie  believes she is responsible for the death of her father when she was a child.  She carries with her so much guilt until she learns about how and why it happened.<br /><br />Sue Monk Kidd writes so vividly about everything she describes in this book.  She describes Egret Island as a beautiful place for tourists filled with birds and beautiful physical scenery like the colorful marsh water.  The environment has a big effect on the main character Jessie.  It helps her rediscover her passion for painting and gets her creative juices flowing.<br /><br />The Mermaid Chair is one of the best books I've ever read.  The setting will captivate you.  The characters and universal themes of faith, loss, a search for the truth, and a yearning for love will definitely touch your heart.	2005-04-08
US	51724757	RQXFHKE3HZDMP	0743247531	657435935	The Glass Castle: A Memoir	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Glass Castle is a very moving memoir	The life of Jeannette Walls should inspire everyone who reads The Glass Castle.  It is a very moving memoir about it feels likes to be poor.  Living with a father who suffered with the disease of alcoholism made her childhood tense and scary, and I think Walls describes this well.  She writes very openly about asking her father to stop drinking and to find a steady job to support the  family.  I think Walls also presents her father as a loving supportive person when he was sober.  Walls also urged her mother who dreamed of becoming an artist to get a job teaching to help their family out.  I enjoyed reading about the examples in the book that showed her father as a good man.  He bought new bicycles for his children and took them to the zoo.  He also developed a love of learning in his children.  Wells writes very vividly about what it felt like sleeping in cardboard boxes, looking though trash cans and dumpsters for food and eating nothing but popcorn for many days.  She also lived in a house with no electricity or indoor plumbing.  She developed a sense of resourcefulness of being so poor.  She made her own set of braces to straighten out of coat hangers and rubber bands.  She also took a job at the age of 13 at a jewerly store to help make ends meet.  Wells discovers a love of journalism in high school which became one of the turning points in her life.  Her love of writing led to a career as a journalist in New York City.  Jeannette Walls has worked hard to achieve the life she now has.  The Glass Castle is a touching, inspirational, entertaining memoir of a courageous successful woman.	2005-03-26
US	51724757	R11PYTGSWLBRAW	1400062896	299517382	Hallelujah! The Welcome Table: A Lifetime of Memories with Recipes	Books	5	6	6	N	N	I enjoyed the recipes and memories in this book	I love food, so naturally I was interested in this book when I saw it.  This is an excellent book with many good recipes in it.  I can't wait to try some of these recipes out and make some of these dishes for myself.  I enjoyed reading about the memories from Maya Angelou's life that accompany these recipes too.  Food has played such an important part in her life.  I enjoyed reading about how she got over her writer's block once by making custard and chocolate eclairs.  There is a delicious recipe for a caramel cake that Maya learned from her grandmother.  Caramel cake is  a reminder to the author about how much she was loved by her grandmother.  I learned a lot of recipes for dishes I never even heard of.  Chakchouka  is a vegetarian stew that consists of eggplant, tomatoes and onions.  I also learned a recipe for a dish called Cassoulet which has pea beans served with various meats like pork, duck, chicken and sausage.<br /><br />There is a good recipe for chicken tamales that Maya learned from her girlfriend who was trying to impress a doctor that she really liked.  I love Mexican food so I appreciated this recipe very much.  There are pictures for some  of these dishes in this book.  My favorite picture is the one of porkchops.  Maya learned to cook pork chops from her older brother Bailey.  The picture in the book shows pork chops served with apples on top of it,  and it looks delicious.<br /><br />  Respect for good food can eliminate distances between sexes and languages.  Maya recalls the time when she cooked Thanksgiving dinner for a group of Italian scholars in Italy.  I recommend this book to anybody who enjoys good food.  I enjoyed the recipes and stories in this book very much.	2005-01-30
US	51724757	R254RS6YERVEAI	1400082773	773934124	Dreams from My Father: A Story of Race and Inheritance	Books	5	13	22	N	N	This is a wonderful and moving memoir	Dreams From My Father is a wonderful memoir about the life  of Senator elect Barack Obama from Illinois.  The experiences in  this book are very descriptive and vivid.  This book has three parts to it.  The first part is entitled Origins.  In this section, he talks about being raised in Hawaii by his white mother and grandparents.  I recognized and enjoyed reading about all of the  beautiful locales he describes while in living in Hawaii.  He also writes about his education at a prestigious prep school in Honolulu, and that he felt like a minority there being half black and half white.  The first section of the book also talks about the he spent in Indonesia as a child and being briefly raised as a muslim by his step father.  He ate snakes as a child and saw beggars daily while living there.<br /><br />The second section of this book is about Barack Obama's life in Chicago and his work as a neighborhood organizer.  This section is the book really describes how he develops a passion for public service.  My favorite part of this section is how he tries to improve the education system and living conditions of low income residents in a neighborhood called Altgeld in Chicago.<br /><br />The third section of this book is about how Obama travels to Kenya to learn about the father he never knew and meet his long lost family and his biological father he barely knew.  I really liked his description of the land in Kenya and his experience of going on an African safari.<br /><br />This memoir also includes the keynote address Obama delivered at the Democratic National Convention.  This is a very moving  speech.  Barack Obama has lived a very interesting life.  I think he is an eloquent writer as well as a great public speaker. I loved reading this book.	2004-12-02
US	51724757	R3NEABEH95ZDTQ	0743272935	412606618	The Good Earth (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Good Earth is one of Oprah's finest picks	The Good Earth is a classic novel with memorable characters and interesting themes.  Pearl Buck describes the lifestyle and customs of the Chinese through the eyes of a farmer named Wang Lung.<br /><br /> The earth symbolizes many things in this book.  It is a symbol of pride and the primary way a farmer provides for his family.  The earth also symbolizes wealth as the main character Wang Lung works hard to buy more land.<br />Wang Lung's uncle is a lazy man and a constant source  of trouble to Wang Lung.<br /><br />Pearl Buck presents two very different female characters in The Good Earth.  Wang Lung's loyal wife Olan is a former child slave who never complains.  She is not portrayed as a physically desirable  woman,  because  her feet are not bound according to Chinese custom.  Her unbound feet make her a valuable and productive worker while working on the farm though.  Olan gives birth to three sons and two daughters.  I found it interesting that the success and prosperity followed  the birth of her sons. Poverty  and hard times followed the birth of her daughters.  Olan makes the ultimate sacrifice by taking the life of her infant daughter who is born during a famine and is seen as only as a burden.  Lotus is Wang Lung's mistress.  She is beautiful but spoiled and lazy.  Olan resents the affection Wang Lung gives Lotus.<br /><br />  The second half of the novel is set in the overcrowded city of Kiangsu filled with lazy rich men who seem to do nothing but seek pleasure.<br /><br />Pearl Buck has characters and themes in The Good Earth that I think everyone can relate to and identify with.  I think this is the reason The Good Earth is still being read today over 70 years since it was first published.  The Good Earth is one of Oprah's finest book club picks.	2004-09-16
US	51724757	R21K73Z1GE2PNP	0316143464	555987354	Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim	Books	5	3	4	N	N	My review of Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim	I really enjoyed reading Dress Your Family In Corduroy and Denim.  David Sedaris writes so well and honestly about the people, experiences, and events that have influenced him, you can't help but love this book.  I enjoyed the lighter subjects of this book like where David Sedaris talks about his family dreaming of living in a beach house as a child or about how proud he is of his younger Paul getting married and becoming a father.  Sedaris also shares his experiences of helping his parents manage and maintain apartments.  I liked how Sedaris and his father worked together to stand up to an unhappy tenant who cut down a tree that he was not supposed to.<br />  I loved the part of the book where Sedaris talks about his dysfunctional relationship he has with his sister Tiffany.  Everything about his sister's life bothers him from the way she cleans her house, and  her inability to find a steady job and also her disgusting eating habits like eating food from the garbage.  I think everyone knows somebody who is resistant to change.  I could really relate to this essay, and it is one of my favorite ones in this book.<br />There are some very touching and personal essays in this book.  Sedaris talks about how he learned to make peace and feel sympathy for a boyhood bully.  Sedaris reaches out to everyone in need even as an adult.  I loved the essay The Girl Next Door in which talks about his friendship with a neighbor.<br />  Sedaris talks about his adventures working as house cleaner and his job as a teenager selling popcorn in a sports arena.  These essays are so funny  The funny part  about working as a cleaner are the weird clients he worked for.  The funny part about selling popcorn and sodas is the way he casually asked total strangers for their loose change.<br />David Sedaris is a very funny writer, but he can very serious and honest.  I found this book to be very entertaining, and I enjoyed it very much.	2004-06-14
US	51724757	R1Q0TBQGMA5SIH	0743246721	901530583	An Alchemy of Mind: The Marvel and Mystery of the Brain	Books	5	36	38	N	Y	This is a fascinating book	I enjoyed reading this book very much.  Diane Ackerman takes a complex subject like the human brain and makes it easy to understand.  Ackerman begins each chapter with thought prokoking quotes by famous writers,  thinkers, and popular movies.  My favorite quote in the book is by author Pearl Buck.  It is about how people have a need to express themselves creatively.  My other favorite quote is from Franz Kafka that says that being happy changes your entire outlook on life.<br />I loved the way Ackerman explains how the brain works in simple language.  I learned that neurons grow new dendritic connections every time a person learns something new or expands on connections that already exists.  Neurons communicate with each other by using axons.<br />There is an interesting chapter in this book that explains the differences between the way men and women think.  Women solve problems using both sides of the brain.  Men use only the side that specializes in that problem.  Men lose more brain cells in the temporal and frontal lobes affecting feeling and thinking as they age.  Women lose more brain cells in the hippocampus affecting memory as they get older.  Ackerman makes an interesting observation that women worry about losing emotional attachments.  This is in contrast to men who worry about losing face.<br />I also learned that human beings share the same motives, feelings and instincts with animals.  We all share and seek a need for protection, hunger, status seeking,  social contact, sexual desire, and acceptance. I also learned that tool use isn't just limited to monkeys and humans.  Crows have the ability to bend wire into a hook to retrieve food in a bucket.<br />One of the most interesting sections of this book is the one about memory. I learned that the brain does four things to remember.  It recognizes patterns, interprets them, records their source, and retrieves them.  Ackerman defines the different types of memory which I found helpful.  Working memory holds crates of information for immediate use, but it can only do one thing at a time.  Episodic memories are those that are linked to a certain feeling.  Memory suffers when we are under stress or if we are bored.  Challenge, exercise, and novelty of new things improve our memory.  I really liked the way Ackerman connects the subject of memory and language.  Language gives us a verbal memory that allows us to learn and remember without physically experience something.  Words serve as memory aids for some people too.<br />An Alchemy of Mind is a very informative and entertaining book.  I recommend this book to anyone who is interested in learning more about neuroscience or psychology.ory holds crates of information for immediate use, but it can only do one thing at a time.   Episodic memories are those that are linked to a certain feeling.   Memory suffers when we are under stress or if we are bored.  Challenge, exercise, and novelty of new things improve our memory.  I really liked the way Ackerman connects the subject of memory and language.  Language gives us a verbal memory that allows us to learn and remember without physically experience something.  Words serve as memory aids for some people too.<br />An Alchemy of Mind is a very informative and entertaining book.  I recommend this book to anyone who is interested in learning more about neuroscience or psychology.	2004-06-08
US	51724757	R23T92HPNMFQYC	1401352081	287930463	Big Russ and Me, Father and Son: Lessons of Life	Books	5	45	61	N	N	Big Russ and Me is a very good book.	I was interested in reading Big Russ and Me, because Tim Russert is one of the most respected journalists and one of the best political minds in the media.  I wanted to learn more about this man who has been on television so much the last 2 decades.  As the title states, this book is about the relationship and lessons a father teaches his son.  Russert not only talks the relationship he has with his father He talks the relationship he has with his own son Luke and the passion of sports they both share.<br /><br />Tim Russert has so much respect and love for his father, and he explains clearly why in this book.  Big Russ, or Tim Russert Sr. prepared and inspected parachuttes  during  World War 2.  He later held down later down 2 jobs as a trash collector and a newspaper delivery truck driver and never missed a single day of work in his life.  Tim Russert learned from his father the value of hard work and to take pride in whatever he did.<br /><br />Russert talks about the things he loves like baseball, food, cars.  Russert is also proud of his strict  Catholic upbringing,  working in a church as a teenager, and attending Catholic schools throughout his life. He also talks  and the other people who inspired him throughout his life  like his 7th grade teacher Sister Lucille who made him editor of his school newspaper and gave him a love of writing and reading.  Father Sturum was another teacher and influence who taught him discipline and accountability.  Tim Russert worked as  Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan's assistant in the mid 70s. Moynihan became his political and intellectual mentor. The late senator  taught Russert how to respect true intelligence, ask good questions, and how to disagree agreeably.  This is a skill Russert does so well as moderator of Meet the Press every week.<br /><br />Big Russ and Me is a very entertaining and heartwarming book about the lessons we learn from our fathers. It is also about  how teachers and coworkers can play such an important part in our lives.  I enjoyed it very much.lives.   I enjoyed it very much.	2004-05-17
US	51724757	RQ1UCVW4YYQUR	0618526412	692550038	The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter	Books	5	119	130	N	N	This is a great book	The Heart Is A Lonely Hunter is one of the best novels I've read in a while.  I loved the way Carson McCullers develops the characters in this book. Loneliness and racial injustice are two timeless themes in this novel that McCullers presents so well.  McCullers was a white woman writing about how black people were mistreated and felt oppressed in 1940.  She was an author truly ahead of her time in that way.<br />All the characters are so memorable in this book.  Biff Brannon is a compassionate cafe owner.  He helps anyone in need by giving them either food, money or a job.  Brannon becomes a widower when his wife dies suddenly of a tumor.  Mick Kelly is a lonely but intelligent 12 year old girl from a poor family with a passion for music.  Doctor Copeland is a black physician.  He becomes a crusader for racial justice when his son goes to jail.  McCullers explains the basic principles of Karl Marx's economic theory in the novel by putting in a lecture by Copeland in the novel to show how society is divided between the rich and poor people.  I knew nothing about Karl Marx's ideas, so I thought this part of the novel was very interesting.  Another memorable character is John Singer.  He is a man who does not have the ability to speak. However, he becomes the person all the characters eventually confide all their problems to.  Singer communicates with his long time room mate and only deaf friend by using sign language.  The relationship and love between these two deaf friends is one of the best things about this novel.<br />The Heart Is A Lonely Hunter is one of the best books Oprah has ever chosen for her book club.  The themes of loneliness and racial injustice are timeless and  universal.  The characters are very memorable too.  I loved reading this book.	2004-04-25
US	51724757	R3JWF1B46GDF9G	1592400876	436381860	Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation	Books	5	13	20	N	Y	I never knew punctuation could be so interesting	Eats Shoots & Leaves is a  very helpful reference book especially if you have to write a lot of papers for school.<br />This book has shown me a former student how much I did not know about punctuation and that is why I enjoyed it.<br />  I thought that an apostrophe only indicated possession.  I also learned that an apostrophe can be used to indicate time or quantity or the omission of letters. Lynne Truss explains the functions and usage of common punctuation marks like the apostrophe, comma, semicolon, and colon very clearly.  I really did not know how a semicolon or colon could be used.  A semicolon shows the reader the relationship  between 2 different statements.  Colons separate subtitles from main titles in books or movies.  She provides the reader with sentences with the punctuation marks in the right place.  I really appreciated seeing how they worked in sentences.<br />There are 17 rules about how a comma is used.  Commas are not only used in lists and to join sentences.  They are also used to separate clauses to make reading easier and are used before direct speech.  The information in this book may sound basic to some people, but I found it pretty interesting.  This book will make me a better writer and a better observer when I see a misuse of punctuation.  Lynne Truss points out how punctuation can be misused everywhere on movie posters and even everyday email.  Eats, Shoots and Leaves is a wonderful written book.	2004-04-17
US	51724757	RMCICDGF3F3O	0618068872	719178727	Empress Orchid: A Novel	Books	5	5	9	N	N	My review of Empress Orchid	I enjoyed reading this novel very much.  The setting of the novel is the Forbidden City of China in Peking in 1852.  Anchee Min describes the life of  Princess Orchid in such specific detail.  She is served 99 individual dishes at every meal, but  she does not have the privacy to use the toilet by herself.<br /><br />I loved reading about how Orchid ascended from her status as a mere concubine to becoming the ruler of China.  Orchid is a very courageous woman.  She sneaks out of the forbidden city dressed as a commoner and goes to a brothel to learn how to please a man. Orchid is the only concubine to bear the Emperor a son which instantly elevates her status.  Orchid literally runs China when her husband's health declines.  I enjoyed how Orchid struggles to raise and teach her son how to be a good ruler.  Orchid competes with another one of the Emperor's wives named Nuharoo for her son's love which is interesting to read.<br />  I did not know that  eunuchs played such an important role in the running of the Forbidden City.  The head eunuch was responsible for supervising the vaults which contained gold, silver, tea, and silk.  He was also responsible for providing the imperial court with sacrificial animals, grains and fruits for religious ceremonies.  The head eunuch also oversaw the departments that maintained the palaces, temples, and gardens.<br />Empress Orchid has very interesting characters besides Orchid.  I loved the loyalty of Orchid's eunuch Antehai.  He has pledged his life to serve Orchid, but still dreams of having a family and being free.  Su Shin is an  advisor to the Emperor who challenges Orchid's authority and tries to kill her.<br /><br />  Foreigners tried to impose their ways on the Chinese which was an overwhelming  burden on Emperor Hsien Feng.  There was religious strife between Christian missionaries and Chinese people.  Missionaries were murdered and churches were burned.  British and French soldiers attacked Chinese forts and villages. were burned by foreign invaders leaving many Chinese people homeless.<br /><br />Anchee Min writes with such detail about every aspect of Chinese life in the mid 19th century.  Life in the Forbidden City was lonely for everyone including the Emperor Hsien Feng  who sadly died at a young age without knowing his  mother's love.  Although Orchid became the ruler of China, she yearned for a man's companionship after being widowed at a young age.  Anchee Min makes the reader feel for all the characters which I think is the mark of a great writer.  Empress Orchid is an excellent read.and villages. were burned by foreign invaders leaving many Chinese people homeless.  <br />  <BR>Anchee Min writes with such detail about every aspect of Chinese life in the mid 19th century.  Life in the Forbidden City was lonely for everyone including the Emperor Hsien Feng  who sadly died at a young age without knowing his  mother's love.   Although Orchid became the ruler of China, she yearned for a man's companionship after being widowed at a young age.   Anchee Min makes the reader feel for all the characters which I think is the mark of a great writer.  Empress Orchid is an excellent read.	2004-03-12
US	51724757	R2KLYCADCQ650D	0060740450	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	My review of 100 years of Solitude	100 years of Solitude is a confusing book to read  It is enjoyable nonetheless.  It is hard to keep track of what each character is doing, because there are so many characters with the same name.  Gabriel Garcia Marquez paints a vivid picture of a fictional setting called Macondo where the people speak Spanish.  The founder of Macondo is Jose Arcadio Buendia.  He is an adventurous person but he gets crazy and impulsive with anything new.  These traits seem to pass on to all of his descendants with the same name.  The people of Macondo endure a civil war and a widespread plague where no one can sleep.  They also have to adjust to living with the white man.<br /><br />I liked about how each character is changed by the events happening around them.  Aureliano Buendia is a great example of this.  He is a happy, intelligent, compassionate person at the beginning of the novel. However after experiencing defeat in a prolonged civil war, he loses his capacity to appreciate life and his loved ones.<br />Each woman in this novel has her own individual quirk that makes them unique.  Ursula is the matriarch of the Buendia family who holds the family together  despite being blind.  Pilar Ternera is the fortune teller who predicts the future using cards.  Rebecca is a reclusive character who eats dirt from the ground when she is depressed.  100 years of Solitude is an ok book but it's just a little hard to follow because of all the many characters.	2004-02-03
US	51724757	R3PO8JL5M3D3NP	0060005688	267833178	The Paradox of Choice: Why More Is Less	Books	5	155	180	N	Y	My review of The Paradox of Choice	I enjoyed reading this book very much.  Having rules and constraints in society is a good thing and should be embraced.  This is an important idea of this book.  The Paradox of Choice explains how people arrive at the decisions they do.  This book also talks about the negative aspects of making decisions in a world with so many choices.  Finally, this book offers suggestions on how to make better choices and reduce stress.<br /><br />  Barry Schwartz makes many good points about decision making.  One of them is that because of the growing number of choices we are presented with, we don't always have the time to look at all the information out there to make the best choice.  Another interesting point is that people expect certain decisions to be made for them. In the health care field for example, we expect the doctor to tell what kind of treatment we need.<br />  I learned from reading this book that we should all strive to be satisficers rather maximizers.  A satisficer is a person who chooses a product or service that is good enough.  A maximizer is a person who is always trying to get the best product.  A satisficer is usually happy with their choice. In contrast, a maximizer isn't happy and often regrets what they bought.<br />  We should also try to stick our choices and not change our minds.  This is another way to reduce anixety I learned in the book. This is very hard to do consistently, but I thought this was a good piece of advice.  I also enjoyed the idea of being a chooser and not a picker.  Choosers have time to change their goals whereas pickers do not.  Choosers take their time making a decision considering all their options unlike pickers who do not.<br />  The Paradox of Choice is an excellent book with a lot of interesting information about the habits people have in making decisions.  It also has very useful tips on how to reduce anixety in your life.	2004-01-11
US	51724757	R3G9XXN7F9NDH1	0060185104	584598882	America's Women: Four Hundred Years of Dolls, Drudges, Helpmates, and Heroines	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	My review of America's Women	America's Women is the most comprehensive, informative, and entertaining book about the history of women I have ever read.  There are many achievements by female pioneers I never even heard of.  Nellie Bly was a newspaper reporter who became a national celebrity when she went around the world in 80 days in 1888.  Sarah Josepha Hale became the first female editor of a fashion and advice magazine in 1836.  Phillis Wheatley was an extraordinary female slave who learned to speak fluent English in a year and a half.  She was the first American writer to achieve international fame with her poetry.  She was also credited in persuading George Washington to allow black men to serve in the Continetal Army.  I also learned about Ellen Swallow Richards who became the founder of home economics in the early 20th century  Girls were able to take chemistry, biology, and geology classes under her theory that it would help them become better homemakers.<br />The causes that women in history have fought for are logical, diverse, and interesting.  Women have fought for the right to vote, the prohibition of alcohol, and the sexual purity of men which I found interesting.  Women also won the right to schooling during the Revolutionary War which I never knew.<br /> There were some people I only recoginized by name in this book.  However, after reading about their accomplishments, I had a better understanding of what their influence was.  Jane Addams was the founder of a housing settlement called Hull House in Chicago.  She provided housing for thousands of poor people and immigrants in the early part of the 20th century.  Eleanor Roosevelt was a model for future first ladies. She wanted to give black people equal access to government services.  She aimed to improve housing conditions for all people.  She seeked for ways to stimulate the economy during the Great Depression and World War 2.<br />America's Women covers every subject related to women with such depth and accuracy.  Gail Collins really traces  well how the attitudes about education, women in the work place, family, and even sex has evolved over 400 years.  Today women are more educated and more self confident about their decisions than ever before.  They have made a  mark in every field of endeavor.  America's Women is an excellent book.l Collins really traces  well how the attitudes about education, women in the work place, family, and even sex has evolved over 400 years.  Today women are more educated and more self confident about their decisions than ever before.  They have made a  mark in every field of endeavor.  America's Women is an excellent book.	2003-11-16
US	51724757	R3AM1N40E8PRVX	0761104844	280019609	1,000 Places to See Before You Die: A Traveler's Life List	Books	5	10	11	N	N	My review of 1000 places to see before you die	This book is perfect for people who love to travel but cannot afford to.  This book is so well written and researched.  I loved reading about the geography and history of all the places described in this book.  All of these destinations seem so exotic and exciting.  There are so many interesting places in this book such as  national parks, museums, rivers, festivals, restaurants, mountains, places to view art, nature, and amazing works of architecture.<br />  I would love to go scuba diving off Australia's Great Barrier Reef and look at 1,500 varieties of fish.  I would love to go to Egypt to take a cruise on the Nile River and view ancient ruins and royal tombs.  I would like to see camels race in the Sinai desert.  I would to see the artistic elegance of the Sistine Chapel in Rome.  I wouldn't mind visiting the breathtaking marble architecture of the Taj Mahal in India either.  I never knew some of these places even existed like Count Dracula's castle in Romania and Santa's village in Helsinki Finland. I would enjoy  horseback riding through the mountains of South Africa.  Looking at thousands of beautiful women in Ipanema Beach in Rio De Janeiro Brazil seems like a lot of fun too.<br /><br />A lot of fun destinations described in this book are in the United States and North America  too.  I would love to go on a hot air baloon ride in Albuquerque, New Mexico.  It would be exciting to watch the Iditarod dogsled race in Anchorage Alaska or go white river rafting in West Virginia.  I would love to go on a polar bear safari in Manitoba Canada. Montreal Quebec would be an interesting destination choice for a lot of people.  It is home to a world film festival, a jazz festival, and an international fireworks competition.<br />1000 places to see before you die is the most comprehensive world travel guide I have ever seen.  I learned so much about different countries and their histories.  I will take this book with me on every trip I go on in the future.	2003-10-18
US	51724757	R3MJAEFH3WQ7IY	0743262174	59017278	Cry, the Beloved Country	Books	5	8	8	N	N	My review of Cry, the Beloved Country	Cry, the Beloved Country is a very moving novel about a black man's country under white man's law.  Anyone who is interested in race relations, history, or the African language will enjoy this book like I did.  This is an insightful book in which I learned a lot about South Africa.  I learned that Johannesburg was the center of the gold mine industry.  Many people left their small tribal villages to work there in 1946 which is the year this novel is set in.<br />The basic premise of Cry, The Beloved Country  is about a young black man who is accused of and found guilty of murdering a white man.  The author does a great job of making the reader care about both the victim and the accused.<br />The author Alan Paton does a great job of describing the character of the victim Arthur Jarvis as a very caring person who was well respected by people of all races.  Arthur Jarvis was concerned with the social problems facing South Africa in 1946 like racial crime, the lack of education of African youth, and the conditions of the gold mines, and the welfare of the workers who labored there.<br />Alan Paton does an equally excellent job describing the accused person.  Absalom Kumalo is the son of the Zulu pastor Stephen Kumalo who goes in search for his son in the first section of the book.  The cause of Absalom's crime according to the author is a breakdown of tribal values and family bonds like working together to achieve a common goal and a sense of belonging to a group.  The Western emphasis on focusing on the individual influenced the way of thinking in South Africa that led to this breakdown.<br />I really enjoyed how the fathers of both sons became friends in this book.  The white father James Jarvis actually helped Stephen Kumalo  The elder Jarvis supplied Stephen Kumalo with milk to nourish the sick children of his village.  Jarvis also provided Stephen Kumalo with a person to teach his people how to farm to grow more food.<br />I appreciated the list of words at the end of the book, because some of the African words were hard to pronounce.  I love finding out the meaning of new words even if they are in a foreign languages.  Cry, the Beloved Country is a beautifully written book about South Africa with strong themes and memorable characters.  I loved this book.d of the book, because some of the African words were hard to pronounce.  I love finding out the meaning of new words even if they are in a foreign languages.  Cry, the Beloved Country is a beautifully written book about South Africa with strong themes and memorable characters.  I loved this book.	2003-10-06
US	51724757	R2QKHFK9JV433O	0395927218	25220636	The Namesake: A Novel	Books	5	2	7	N	Y	My review of the Namesake	I enjoyed The Namesake very much.  Jhumpa Lahiri writes with such detail in a rather short novel just under 300 pages.  The significance of names, the process of making a life in the United States after living in India, and trying to preserve the native Indian culture are just some of the important and interesting themes in this book.<br />  The main character in the novel is a young man named Gogol.  The book covers Gogol's life from birth to age 32.  Gogol gets into romantic relationships and out of them very quickly.  I think this pattern of people falling in and out of love is something not only myself but others can relate to.<br />  Gogol is named after the Russian writer Nikolai Gogol whom his father admires very much. The reason his son  is named Gogol is because when his father survives a  bad train accident, he is holding a page of the author by the same name which helps him get rescued.  This is a very emotional moment told in the first pages of this book It  really hooked and sparked my interest in the powerful way Jhumpa Lahiri writes.<br />  I enjoyed reading the transformation Gogol's mother Ashima makes.  She is a young, scared, jobless, dependent woman at the beginning of the novel.  She becomes a strong, self reliant, employed woman at the end of the book.<br /><br />  I loved the names of the characters the author uses in this novel.  Each Indian name in this novel has a interesting meaning to it.  I loved reading about the different names in this book.  Ashoke, Gogol's father's name means he who transcends grief.  Gogol mother is named Ashima which means limitless without borders.  Gogol takes a formal name when he starts school.  He is named Nikhil which means he who is entire, emcompassing all.<br />  The author describes an India where people boil rice and shampoo their hair on the sidewalk.  Commuters in India. threaten to committ suicide by jumping from buses and trams too.  The Namesake is a very entertaining book by a talented writer.riter.	2003-09-19
US	51724757	R3310BET4QB7DP	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	3	3	N	N	My review of The Secret Life of Bees	I enjoyed this book very much.  The Secret Life Of Bees is a wonderfully written book with memorable characters and an interesting historical setting. The novel is set in the state of South Carolina in 1964 which coincided with the passage of the Civil Rights Act.<br />  The main character is a young white teenage girl named Lily Owens who goes on a search to learn about the mother she lost at the age of 4.  Lily blames herself for accidently shooting her mother and blames herself for her death.  Lily begins this quest by looking a picture that belonged to her mother of a black Madonna with a name of a town in  South Carolina on the back of it.<br />  Lily spends the summer with three black sisters who are in the business of making honey.  Each of these characters have such distinct character traits that I enjoyed.  I found that I possess a few of these traits myself.  I loved the strong gentle character August who becomes a mother figure to Lily.  May is the stoic often depressed sister.  June is the sister who is afraid to let love come into her life.<br />  Zach Taylor is a young black teenager who is thrown in jail after standing by his friend after an incident with a group of white men.  It is also interesting that Zach is Lily's friend and love interest in this book, because in the early 1960's inter racial relationships were not easily accepted.<br />I absolutely loved the character of Rosaleen who is Lily's housekeeper.  She is a strong proud black female character who makes no apologies for her actions.  Rosaleen is on her way to register herself to vote at the beginning of the novel.  She is confronted and taunted by 3 white men. She then  spits on their shoes in response to their behavior  She is subsequently beaten by them and thrown in jail.  This is just one of the great examples of how unjust life was really like during the early 60's in the South for black people.<br />The Secret Life of Bees is a novel of fiction. However, it is set in a context that is very real and relevant though.  The relations between people of different races will always be an important one. The Secret Life of Bees is a  novel with memorable, complex characters.  I loved it.ontext that is very real and relevant though.  The relations between people of different races will always be an important one. The Secret Life of Bees is a  novel with memorable, complex characters.  I loved it.	2003-08-04
US	51724757	R1IM2PCALMKTBR	0142004235	974134151	East of Eden, John Steinbeck Centennial Edition	Books	5	118	156	N	Y	My review of East Of Eden	East of Eden was originally published in 1952, and the setting for the novel is the late 19th and early 20th century.  I still enjoyed reading East of Eden though, because there are timeless themes presented in this book.  Sibling rivalry, guilt, and betrayal are some of the main themes in this book. It was ironic and interesting to read how 2 sets of brothers from different generations compete for the approval and love of their father.<br /><br />There are many memorable characters with strong personalities in East of Eden.  I loved the complex character of Cathy.  She is a whore who shoots her husband and abandons her family.  This incident leaves her husband Adam shattered and confused in the beginning of the story.  I loved how Adam becomes a stronger person and a better father later in the book.  I loved the supporting character named  Lee in this novel.  He is a loyal servant to the patriarch Adam Trask.  He is also the primary caretaker to Adam Trask's sons Caleb and Aron.<br />  I loved reading about the development of the characters especially the twins Caleb and Aron.  Caleb is the curious, brave, independent, strong willed sibling who has dark thoughts.  His brother Aron is the sensitive, studious one.  The contrast between their personalities is very interesting.  The most intense part of the book is when Caleb learns of the existence of his mother and confronts her.<br />  East of Eden becomes a very predictable book about a third of the way in, but it is still a wonderfully written book.  I simply loved the evolution of the characters especially Adam.  East of Eden has themes of sibling rivalry,  guilt,  betrayal, loss,  and the American dream of getting ahead and raising a family that are still relevant in society today. I enjoyed it very much.	2003-07-08
US	51724757	R10G54XMD4Z40S	0786869186	98507536	A Patriot's Handbook: Songs, Poems, Stories, and Speeches Celebrating the Land We Love	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	This is a wonderful book	I absolutely loved reading this book.  It is filled with excellent speeches, poems, stories, and songs.  This book is divided into interesting sections like The Flag, Equality, Freedom, War and Peace, and The Individual.  There are excerpts from famous books included here like To Kill A Mockingbird, The Grapes of Wrath, and Huckleberry Finn.  Just reading these excerpts made me take a few of these books off my shelf again.<br />One of my favorite speeches in this book is entitled Can A Woman Ever Be President of the United States.  It was given in 1935 by First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt.  She talked in the speech about why she felt a woman would make a good President and the qualities that would make a woman a good leader.  In the speech Roosevelt believed that women are more capable of attending to detail and better at adjusting to different surroundings than men.  There is a wonderful speech given by Hillary Rodham Clinton in Beijing China about  inequality and the physical and psychological violations women in China  endure  This is a very powerful  speech that urges a need for change and a willingness for all people to work together so that every woman can reach their full potential in life.  I also loved Teddy Roosevelt's 1899 speech called The Strenuous Life in which he told the American people to work hard and not be afraid to endure hardship in order to make their dreams come true.  Martin Luther's I Have a Dream speech about racial equality and social justice from 1963 is included in this book.  I appreciated reading this speech, because I never heard the entire speech before or understood the significance until now.<br />  I loved the story of Senator John McCain who was a prisoner of war in Vietnam.  He remained hopeful and optimistic of his release sinply by reciting the Pledge of Allegiance everyday.  I loved the statement Edward Kennedy gave in support of the Americans with Disabilities Act in 1990, because as a disabled person I can appreciate how much progress our country has made in leveling the playing field with persons for disabilities in all areas of life.<br />I loved the speech by Arnold Schwarzengger entitled The Education Of An American as he talked about how he became a successful movie  star.  Arnold now has a new mission in life promoting fitness and sports programs in schools.<br />There are lyrics of popular songs like Born In The USA, Surfing USA and God Bless the USA which all celebrate a sense of pride  in the United States.  There are other songs like Big Yellow Taxi and Blowing in the Wind.  These songs are about how fast change takes place in this country.<br />There are many descriptive and insightful poems in this book.  One of my favorites is Let America Be America Again by Langston Hughes.  It is a wonderful poem about the dream of racial equality in America.  The Road Not Taken is a great poem by Robert Frost about following your own path in life.<br />This is a wonderful book for anyone interested in learning more about American history or culture.  I enjoyed it very much.ow much progress our country has made in leveling the playing field with persons for disabilities in all areas of life.<br />I loved the speech by Arnold Schwarzengger entitled The Education Of An American as he talked about how he became a successful movie  star.  Arnold now has a new mission in life promoting fitness and sports programs in schools.  <br />There are lyrics of popular songs like Born In The USA, Surfing USA and God Bless the USA which all celebrate a sense of pride  in the United States.  There are other songs like Big Yellow Taxi and Blowing in the Wind.  These songs are about how fast change takes place in this country.  <br />There are many descriptive and insightful poems in this book.  One of my favorites is Let America Be America Again by Langston Hughes.  It is a wonderful poem about the dream of racial equality in America.  The Road Not Taken is a great poem by Robert Frost about following your own path in life.  <br />This is a wonderful book for anyone interested in learning more about American history or culture.  I enjoyed it very much.	2003-05-23
US	51724757	RCDLCPDRA08YB	0066212855	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded	Books	5	4	5	N	N	My review of Krakatoa	This is a well written well researched book that I enjoyed very much.  I loved reading about the geography, geology, history, and legacy of the world's most destructive volcano.  The creation of the news agency Reuters and the telegraph machine with the advent of Morse Code helped the spread the news of this disaster to the world within moments of the eruption in 1883.  I also learned that the Dutch enslaved the people of Java for over two centuries.  The  rebellion by the Indonesians against the Dutch was ignited by the eruption of Krakatoa and is detailed well in this book.  Indonesia now has the largest population of people of Islamic faith in the world because of Dutch rule.  Winchester does  an excellent job of describing the devastation Krakatoa caused as more than 35,000 people died mostly as the result of the 60 mile a hour tidal waves the eruption caused.<br /> The cause of the eruption of Krakatoa in the book is very complex.  It is a process called subduction in which a heavier and colder tectonic plate collides with a lighter warmer one.  There are many helpful drawings and captions to describe the technical geological concepts.  Winchester even rates volcanos  with an explosivity index  which is based on the amount of material ejected in an eruption and the height the material reaches in the air.  I found these concepts about volcanos to be very interesting.<br /><br />There is a lot of information in this book, and it should be read slowly to understand and appreciate it.  If you like to read books about history and earth science, or geography you will enjoy this book.	2003-05-07
US	51724757	R1KV5U1GD66R36	0812968875	534240151	Poetry 180: A Turning Back to Poetry	Books	5	40	45	N	Y	My review of Poetry 180	I enjoyed the poems in this book very much. It is impossible to pick a favorite, because I loved them all.  I really enjoy reading poems about different human experiences.  Poetry 180 is filled with almost every human emotion.<br /><br /> I loved the poem entitled Love Poem 1990. It is about a man falling in love at different stages in his life from childhood to old age and how he feels about it.  Another one of my favorite poems is entitled May.  It is about the painful experience of putting a dog to sleep.  The Green One Over There is a wonderful but sad poem about the relationship between a sister and a brother.  I could really relate to the way siblings compete as described in this poem.  The subject matter of the poems in this book are diverse.  I never knew a subject could evoke such emotion.  One of these poems is entitled  What Would I Do.  It is an insightful poem about what a husband would do if his wife cheated on him. The Quest is a excellent poem about a mother's fear that her daughter will be hurt and the extent she would take to protect her.<br />I was drawn to some of these poems because of the title.  I loved the titles Vegetarian Physics,  The Poem of Chalk, 1-800 Hot Ribs, and The Grammar Lesson.  These are humorous and descriptive poems I could read over and over just for a laugh. My appreciation for poetry has increased so much.  I loved this book.	2003-04-22
US	51724757	R23G7TZVKYQG8W	0757300618	998060037	Chicken Soup from the Soul of Hawai'i: Stories of Aloha to Create Paradise Wherever You Are	Books	5	23	24	N	N	This book is entertaining, educational, and inspirational	Chicken Soup from the Soul of Hawaii is a wonderful book. I have lived in Hawaii for 20 years, and I still learned so much about Hawaii. Reading this book is like taking a tour of the Hawaiian islands. This book has stories by celebrities like Kelly Preston and Bo Derek, but I enjoyed the stories about the local legends and regular people more. One story that sticks out is about the legendary swimmer and surfer Duke Kahanamoku who designed and popularized the first aloha shirts in the 1930's. I was also inspired by the story of Hao Dang who found freedom in Hawaii after spending 3 months on the ocean and  living  in a Thai refugee camp. Today this young woman supervises 150 employees as a director of housekeeping for 2 of the biggest hotels on the Big Island. I was enjoyed the contributions of local entertainer Nalani Olds who submitted an interesting story about the history of the Royal Hawaiian Band. Olds also submitted a story about a former prison inmate who turned his life around to become a counselor. I loved the inspirational story of Kanalu Young who was paralyzed in a swimming accident as a teenager. He went on to earn a doctorate in history. He is now a professor of Hawaiian studies at the University of Hawaii I enjoyed reading about the story of Angela Perez Baraquio who became the first Asian to win Miss America in the pageant's 80 year history. This book is also very educational. I only knew 3 Hawaiian words before reading this book. I learned many more Hawaiian words like Lokahi which means unity and H'ookipa which means to interact or share. Chicken Soup from the Soul of Hawaii is entertaining, informative and inspirational. I enjoyed it very much.	2003-04-13
US	51724757	R1F9T1PGIPTWSO	0743216466	269924832	The Geography of Thought: How Asians and Westerners Think Differently...and Why	Books	5	125	154	N	Y	My review of The Geography of Thought	This is a very insightful book with lots of information.  It is well written and researched.  There are many differences between the way Westerners and Easterners think.  Some of the points may seem obvious, but they are still interesting to read about.  Children who grow up in the East learn verbs faster.  In contrast, children in the West pick up nouns faster.  This is because Easterners learn the relationships between objects with action words first.  Westerners generally just learn what the object is first.  Conflict resolution is handled very differently too.  The goal in Eastern conflict resolution is to reduce hostility and to reach a compromise.  The goal in resolving conflict in the West is having satisfaction that justice was carried out with a clear winner and loser.  However as the author suggests Westerners have to begun to embrace a lot of Eastern ideas.  There is a  greater emphasis in achieving harmony in a person's life in Eastern cultures.  Asian people are more self critical of themselves as a result.  In contrast, the goal of a Westerner is to achieve a sense of uniqueness and superiority.  I also learned that students who study history in the West focus on the implications or outcomes of events first.  Asian students study the causes of historical events first.  Teacher training and evaluation is a process that never ends in Eastern countries unlike the West where it is short.<br />The Geography of Thought is a very short book, but it should not be read rapidly because of the depth and quantity of information.  I have a greater insight and appreciation for the way people think now.  I enjoyed it very much.	2003-03-30
US	51724757	R91RV8W2TODH2	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	a pretty good book	The Devil In The White City is a very interesting book.  I knew nothing about the World Fair in Chicago in 1893, so I can honestly say I learned a lot. I found this to be a very  entertaining book too.  This book is  about two real life characters.  The first character is an ambitious architect named  Daniel Burnham who had a dream to create the world's greatest visual spectacle.  The other main character is a young doctor named  H.H.  Holmes. who had the ability to charm any woman.  Holmes operated a drugstore, a retail store, and a hotel.  However, under Holmes' facade as a hard working citizen, he was a ruthless murderer who killed scores of women, men, and children.<br />The World Fair of 1893 lasted just 6 months but had over 27 million visitors when the country's population was only 65 million people at the time.  It attracted people of great influence like Susan B. Anthony who fought for the equality of women in voting and labor rights.  The fair also drew inventors like Thomas Edison and entertainers like Buffalo Bill.  It is really amazing to read how Burnham and his partners spent 3 years and  transformed a swampy park into a fair that filled over 200 buildings.  During the duration of the fair, the hospital treated 11,602 people, 64 people a day for the  injuries and ailments caused by the fair like headaches, fainting, diarrhea, foreign objects in the eye.<br />  The Fair of 1893 in Chicago also introduced the world to many inventions like the incandescent light bulb, the automatic dishwasher, the zipper, moving pictures, shredded wheat cereal, and the main attraction of the fair called the Ferris Wheel.  It also introduced a device that made plates for printing books in Braille.  The World Fair made a powerful impression on the Disney family, because Elias Disney helped build the White City which was the name for the fair.  His son Walt Disney was inspired many years to create Disneyland as a result.<br />The Devil in the White City is a very enjoyable book.  The characters are well researched, and the setting of the fair is so vivid.te City is a very enjoyable book.  The characters are well researched, and the setting of the fair is so vivid.	2003-03-11
US	51724757	R1LB9SN3SMLTDN	006053429X	8023177	Couldn't Keep It to Myself: Testimonies from Our Imprisoned Sisters	Books	5	17	19	N	Y	This is an amazing book	This wonderful book has changed the way I have viewed women in prison.  Most of the women in this book suffered from one or several of factors like drug and sexual abuse, domestic violence, low self esteem, and even the loss of a loved one.  The amazing thing is that every woman in this book has achieved their individual aspirations and goals while in prison or upon her release. I loved the story of Nancy Birkla who was convicted of drug dealing and served 7 years in York Correctional Institition.  What is remarkable is what she acheived after her release.  She earned a college degree with a perfect 4.0 grade point average in human services. She later worked as a coordinator for an agency that provides life skills counseling, housing and job opportunities to adults with developmental disabilities.  I enjoyed reading the story of Barbara Parson Lane who was convicted of killing her husband after he sexually molested his step grand daughter.  She became involved in a variety of interesting pursuits while incarcerated  like working in a program in which inmates train Labrador retrievers to assist adults and children with special needs.  This incredibly ambitious woman also studies computers, journalism, and yoga.<br />I loved the story of Brenda Medina who was convicted for her participation in a gang related killing as a teenager.  She has become a bilingual tutor and has taught Hispanic inmates to read, speak, and write English.  Brenda also serves a reporter, photographer and editor for the inmate newsletter.  Bonnie Foreshaw was the first person convicted for  the murder of a pregnant woman in Connecticut which was an accident.  She  actively supports and is involved in anti violence and literacy groups.<br />The story of Diane Bartholomew is very moving too.  She was physically, emotionally, and sexually abused through her twenty four year marriage.  She later experienced a breakdown which led her to shoot and kill her husband.  However her life did not end there. She later earned a bachelors degree in social work with hopes of becoming a mental health counselor  Diane even fought a courageous battle with breast cancer while in prison.<br />This book is filled with hard luck stories about women who have endured great adversity in their lives.  It is written so truthfully as each story tugs at your emotions.  I enjoyed it very much.nd there. She later earned a bachelors degree in social work with hopes of becoming a mental health counselor  Diane even fought a courageous battle with breast cancer while in prison.  <br />This book is filled with hard luck stories about women who have endured great adversity in their lives.  It is written so truthfully as each story tugs at your emotions.  I enjoyed it very much.	2003-02-18
US	51724757	R1PLH3NUCZ98LS	0375507493	318684906	What Should I Do With My Life: The True Story of People Who Answered the Ultimate Question	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	My review of What Should I Do With My Life	What Should I Do With my Life is an interesting book about the various paths people have taken with their lives.  I was impressed by the courage and accomplishments of almost every person in this book.  I loved the story of Leela DeSouza who had a passion for ballet dancing.  She also worked as a top runway model in her spare time.  However, she was not content until she went to college.  She attended the University of Chicago and Stanford business school.  This led her to a White House fellowship and her current job at a high tech public relations firm.  It was very interesting to read how people in one profession switched to another one entirely different.  I enjoyed the story of Kurt Slauson who studied to be an English professor until his older brother committed suicide.  He rediscovered a passion for cooking and went to culinary school to become a chef.  I loved the determination of the British chemistry professor who became a lawyer at the age of 70.  He was turned down for employment because of his age, but he remained undaunted to achieve his dream.  I enjoyed the story of the Harvard Business graduate.  This young man turned his back on the family business and had the courage to change his career path and his lifestyle.  He eventually became a police officer in the rough section of El Monte California.  I loved the story of Janelle London who who switched from being a lawyer to an organ donation activist after her kidney transplant failed.  What Should I Do With My Life is a very entertaining and insightful book.	2003-02-03
US	51724757	R1S6WFCB28PKJH	0151008116	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	This is a very good book	Life of Pi is a great novel about  a zookeeper's son named Pi Patel.  He survives the sinking of a ship and floats for 227 days in a lifeboat.  Aboard the lifeboat with him is a 450 pound tiger named Richard Parker,  a mischievious hyena, and a docile zebra.  I enjoyed reading about ther personalities of  these animals and how they physically clashed together.<br /> What is interesting is how Pi's attitude towards the tiger changes through the book.  He is initially afraid of the tiger in the beginning.  As he begins to care for and feed the tiger, his fear disappears though.  Richard Parker becomes Pi's companion as caring for the tiger and ensuring his survival becomes his main purpose in life.  He develops an attitude of toughness and bravery that I liked.  There are many interesting facts about animals in this book.  I learned that tigers emit a friendly roar called prusten. I also learned that a turtle has many different uses.  A turtle can be an excellent source of food. In addition, the turtle shell can be an effective shield for protection against tigers and used as a bowl for eating.  Pi Patel experiences absolute joy in the smallest of things when he finally discovers fresh drinking water.  Pi entertains himself by fishing and survives by fish, turtle, and even shark.  There is such a great transformation in Pi Patel's personality about his situation from fear and loneliness in the beginning to a sense of  courage and resliency at the end.  I enjoyed it very much.	2003-01-03
US	51724757	R2ZEDBY68LPVDI	1589821122	291436296	Father's Touch	Books	5	1	1	N	N	My review of Father's Touch	Father's Touch is very moving. I never knew that the legal system in Canada was so fallible. The truth can be distorted and facts can be omitted so egregiously. Justice is not always carried out adequately as a result. Failure to report the sexual abuse of children is a crime in itself no matter who is aware of it. Memories of child abuse will never fade for the victims. There is the natural tendency for the victims of sexual abuse to also repress the pain of sexual abuse which is wrong. The inclination of the victims to become confused about their sexual orientation as young adults is clear in this memoir. Years of therapy and journal writing helped the author to acknowledge and uncover the pain. This eventually put him on the path toward healing. These efforts gave the author the ability to give and receive love from other people. Father's Touch is a courageous and honest reminder that the scars from sexual abuse can heal through time and personal effort.	2002-11-28
US	51724757	R4TQ4VWLWMQW9	0375403736	564250926	Family Matters	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	My review of Family Matters	Rohinton Mistry has done it again. Family Matters is a novel about the emotional, physical, and financial strain of caring for someone who has Parkinson's disease. Family Matters is also a portrait of India and the problems that exist there. Nairman Vakeel is a retired English professor who suffers from Parkinson's disease. He is the father of one biological daughter named Roxana, one stepson named Jal, and one step daughter named Coomy. Mistry writes about the physical effects Parkinson's has on the body with such detail. The harsh effects Parkinsons has on a person's speech and physical mobility is well described in this novel. The stress of caring for someone with Parkinsons disease can be great. This is clearly evident when Coomy and Jal thrust the responsibility of caring for their father to Roxana and her family after it becomes unbearable for them.<br /> There are many themes in this novel, but perhaps the strongest is religious prejudice. In India, it is important to marry and even associate with people of the same faith to avoid scorn by one's family. Nairman belongs to the Parsi faith and falls in love with a Catholic woman named Lucy. Their relationship is strongly discouraged, but their very public affair continues long after Nairman gets married to a widow of the same faith. Nairman has dreams about Lucy and his wife through the novel that reflect a sense of regret and loss about both women.<br />Mistry describes the declining physical effects that Parkinson's has on a person's speech and mobility. All his characters are so well developed. He puts them in situations that reflect the problems of his country well. With Nairman's medical cost soaring, his son in law Yezad is forced to turn to illegal gambling to make ends meet. Yezad refuses to help his wife Roxana in caring for her father in the beginning of the novel. It is very interesting to see how Yezad's attitude and personality changes after some life altering events. There is another character in the book named Vila who writes and reads letters for people who are unable to write and read for themselves. In one of his letters, he describes how a young man for a lower caste was killed for associating with a woman from a higher caste. Poverty is so prevalent in India that even children take bribes and money from their classmates.<br />There are many different characters in the novel like the violinist Daisy who dreams to be a professional musician. Edul is a interesting character. He is an inept handyman who just yearns to be helpful. Mr Kapur is the owner of a sporting goods store and Yezad's boss. He yearns for the India of old where citizens did not have to live with the threat of violence and riots depicted clearly in the novel.<br />Family Matters is a wonderful book with many themes and characters. I enjoyed it very much.the book named Vila who writes and reads letters for people who are unable to write and read for themselves. In one of his letters, he describes how a young man for a lower caste was killed for associating with a woman from a higher caste. Poverty is so prevalent in India that even children take bribes and money from their classmates.<br />There are many different characters in the novel like the violinist Daisy who dreams to be a professional musician. Edul is a interesting character. He is an inept handyman who just yearns to be helpful. Mr Kapur is the owner of a sporting goods store and Yezad's boss. He yearns for the India of old where citizens did not have to live with the threat of violence and riots depicted clearly in the novel. <br />Family Matters is a wonderful book with many themes and characters. I enjoyed it very much.	2002-11-26
US	51724757	R9FVL21737VIZ	0609608428	244999736	If I Live to Be 100: Lessons from the Centenarians	Books	5	35	36	N	N	a wonderful book	I enjoyed reading this book very much. It is filled with stories about interesting people who have lived incredible lives Neenah Ellis is a journalist who spent an unforgettable year travelling the country listening to the stories of people who have reached the age of 100 and beyond for a National Public Radio series. I truly believe now that the secret to a long happy life is to stay active either mentally or physically. The people in this book can all attest to that. This book profiles educators like Margaret Rawson who published a book about dyslexia and her work in the field at the age of 96. Abraham Goldstein is a dedicated professor who has taught law for 70 years. I loved the story of Anna Wilmot who stayed active by paddling a rowboat and going skinny dipping.<br />I also enjoyed the story of Ruth Ellis who was the oldest black lesbian. She was an accomplished public speaker and gay activist who made 100 appearances in a 1 year speaking on college campuses and gay functions all over the country. Ruth Ellis achievements have not gone unnoticed as a film has been made about her life. The story of Louisiana Hines is interesting because her grandfather was a slave. She can vividly recall how blacks were lynched for preaching about equality in the early years of the 20th century.<br /> Roy Stamper  became a successful horse trainer He also developed a love for preaching despite having only 4 years of formal education. Roy Stamper proved that it is never too late to fall in love, because he got married at the age of 101.<br /> Sadie and Gilbert Hill were married for an amazing 81 years. The secret to their long marriage can be summed up in one word together. They did everything together from cooking to shopping to dancing. This couple even worked together as farm caretakers milking cows and herding cattle. I loved the story of Harry Shapiro whose life has been prolonged and enriched by his passion to paint. If I live to be 100 is a wonderful book.	2002-10-13
US	51724757	R3OE0X1VRLSKQR	0312283709	994951933	Running with Scissors: A Memoir	Books	5	11	18	N	N	My Review of Running With Scissors	Running with Scissors is the true story of how a young gay man named Augusten Burroughs grew up in the house of his mother's psychiatrist and his family.  His mother left him in the care of a Dr Finch after her divorce from  Augusten's  alcoholic father.  This  left her mentally unstable.  Augusten Burroughs subsequently attempted suicide at the age of 13, because he didn't want to go to school any more.  His suicide attempt was approved of  by his mother and the psychiatrist who would become his legal guardian.  His formal education ended in the 7th grade as a result of that attempt.  Burroughs had a sexual often abusive relationship as a child with a man twice his age for most of his teens.  Burroughs grew up in a house where people ate dog food as a snack.  He lived in a household where the shape of human feces was saved and looked upon as a method of telling the future. Augusten's closest relationship is with his stepsister Natalie.  The things they did together are very funny.<br />  One of the funniest parts in the book would have to be the part where Augusten and Natalie sing  for a group of unruly mental patients for fun.  I also loved reading the funny chapter in which Augusten and his sister threw some hotel furniture in a swimming pool in a frustrated effort to find a pair of earrings.  Running With Scissors has a combination of  serious and funny elements.  I enjoyed this book very much.	2002-09-19
US	51724757	R1X8U2DVC7DGH8	0743446496	559570503	The Right Words At the Right Time	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	this is a wonderful book	This book is for everyone who has felt discouraged,  overwhelmed, embarassed, saddened and confused.  The experiences of the contributors in this book are so diverse as our the contributors themselves.  They  are comprised of actors, CEOs of major companies, movie directors, talk show hosts, musicians,  athletes, activists, journalists, artists and politicians.  These are  some of  the stories, people, and words that stood out for me.<br /><br />Former New York Mayor Rudy Guiliani who learned that life is a combination of great tragedy and great beauty from a woman who lost her father, husband, and son all in one year.  He learned to celebrate the beauty and the positive things  in life.  Oprah Winfrey was inspired by  the words of a producer who said just be yourself when she felt overwhelmed starting out as a talk show host years ago.  Her main compettion was Phil Donahue who was the king of talk shows at the time. The same idea motivated Marlo Thomas when she was started out as an actress.  Her legendary father advised her to run her own race.  Jeff Bezos, the founder and CEO of Amazon.com  learned an important lesson  by listening to the  words of his grandfather. It is much harder to be nice than clever.  I thought those words as like so many in this book to be profound.  Actress Jennifer Aniston was inspired by a speech written by Marianne Williamson given by Nelson Mandella. The gist of the speech is that we all have a light or gift within us that we all need to share.  Journalist Ted Koppel took the words of Roy Rogers to heart when he read that everyone is ignorant just on different subjects.  Steven Spielberg was inspired by the words of a Davy Crockett movie The  words Be sure you're right, then go ahead  gave him the confidence to drop out of college and become a director.<br /><br />Some of the most interesting insights come from people who are not as famous.  Doris Kearns Goodwin, a historian who worked with President Johnson writing his memoir was inspired by the words of psychologist Erik Erikson that the richest lives attain an inner balance comprised of work, play and love.  Erikson concluded that we should not sacrifice one need to pursue another.  The contribution by Dr. David Ho is interesting to me because of what he does for a living.  David Ho is the director of AIDS research and through his efforts with different drugs patients live longer and healthier lives.  Patients focus on living and not dying because of him.  I enjoyed the wisdom in the story of political advisor Mary Matalin who learned from her father that confidence is what separates successful people from unsuccessful ones.  Confidence is  created from 3 things being prepared, having experience, and never giving up.  This is an idea I will never forget.<br /><br />There are some cliches in this book, but they are interesting because of the people who were motivated by them achieved great things.  Astronaunt  Sally Ride was inspired by the words reach for the stars and became the first woman in space.  Toni Morrison was motivated by the words anything worth doing is worth doing well.  Morrison won the Nobel Prize for her novel Song of Solomon later in life.  Designer Ralph Lauren was inspired by the music of Frank Sinatra and the song My Way.<br /><br />The Right Words at the Right Time is an excellent book filled with pearls of wisdom. This book has wonderful insights about life, work, character and love.the words of psychologist Erik Erikson that the richest lives attain an inner balance comprised of work, play and love.  Erikson concluded that we should not sacrifice one need to pursue another.      The contribution by Dr. David Ho is interesting to me because of what he does for a living.  David Ho is the director of AIDS research and through his efforts with different drugs patients live longer and healthier lives.  Patients focus on living and not dying because of him.   I enjoyed the wisdom in the story of political advisor Mary Matalin who learned from her father that confidence is what separates successful people from unsuccessful ones.  Confidence is  created from 3 things being prepared, having experience, and never giving up.  This is an idea I will never forget.      There are some cliches in this book, but they are interesting because of the people who were motivated by them achieved great things.  Astronaunt  Sally Ride was inspired by the words reach for the stars and became the first woman in space.  Toni Morrison was motivated by the words anything worth doing is worth doing well.  Morrison won the Nobel Prize for her novel Song of Solomon later in life.  Designer Ralph Lauren was inspired by the music of Frank Sinatra and the song My Way.      The Right Words at the Right Time is an excellent book filled with pearls of wisdom. This book has wonderful insights about life, work, character and love.	2002-08-21
US	51724757	R1PD48AUMG2G5Q	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	This is a wonderful book	The Lovely Bones is a wonderfully well written and thoughtful book from beginning to end.  It is about how the murder of a 14 year old girl named Susie Salmon changes the lives of her family and friends.  This book has an interesting premise that people in heaven still long for things on earth.  Each character is affected by her death greatly.  Susie watches the lives of the people she loves from heaven.  She watches her friends and siblings grow up.  I loved reading about the romantic relationship between Susie's younger sister Lindsay and her boyfriend Samuel.  I love the psychic connection Susie has with her friend  Ruth Connors.  Susie's spirit inhabits Ruth's body in one of the most touching parts of the book.  Susie's parents respond to their daughter's death in very different ways.  This causes them to drift apart.  Susie's mother strays away physically and emotionally from her family for several years to forget the pain of her loss.  Susie's father organizes memorials to remember his daughter every year on the anniversary of her death.  However, he is unable to part with his Susie's clothes several years after her death.  It is interesting to read how their marriage breaks apart and mends itself back together.  Every character including Susie up in heaven learns to accept her death and move on.  This is one of the best books I have read in a long time.	2002-07-24
US	51724757	R3CFUGGASYXS1I	0375503803	332508756	Sailing Alone Around the Room: New and Selected Poems	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	My Review of Sailing Alone Around The Room	This is a wonderful book of poems.  The subjects are so diverse and the titles of the poems are unique.  There are several titles that caught my eye such as The Death of the Hat, Shoveling Snow With Buddha, My Best Cigarette, Victoria's Secret, and Questions about Angels.  One of the most descriptive and imaginative poems in the book is Victoria's Secret.  He conjures up a variety of emotions in this poem  by looking at the pictures and facial expressions  of the models in the catalog.  I enjoy the poem The Death of A Hat, because it talks about an ordinary object and the symbolism that was formally attached to it.  According to this poem, a hat symbolized a sense of identity and loyalty.  My Best Cigarette is a great poem along the same logic as death of a hat.  A cigarette to Billy Collins was like a catalyst in the writing process.  It was the best way to relax for him.  One of the most personal poems in this book is the Iron Bridge.  Collins remembers his mother who recently has died and compares her to a bridge that is as old as her.  He is trying to come to terms with his loss and move on with his life in this beautiful poem.<br />I love the poems in this book with a subtle message.  One poem in particular is Advice to Writers.  In this poem, Collins says that good writing is polished writing.  Therefore, the writing  process should be deliberate and never rushed.  I loved the poem Aristole.  It has so many creative metaphors about the cycle of life contained in the poem.  Collins compares the beginning of life to a fish wriggling onto land.  He also compares the beginning of life to a first move in a chess game.  In the same poem, he compares the middle of life like cities filled with people with a million schemes and looks. Finally, Collins compares the end of life to the last elephant in a parade.  I found all the metaphors in this poem to be so insightful.<br />Billy Collins has several poems about animals in this book.  He  associates different animals with several human feelings.  He writes about the plight of tortured cows in the poem Afternoon with Irish Cows.  He ponders the reason for the blindness of mice which is an allusion to the nursery rhyme Three Blind Mice.  He writes about how a dog can feel so alone and unwanted in the poem To A Stranger Born in Some Distant Country Hundreds of Years From Now.<br />Some of Billy Collins poems are obviously composed just by observing everyday life.  A good example of this is poem The Waitress.  In this poem, he writes about all the people who have waited on him in his life. Collins imagines how liberating it must feel for waitresses to be free of their duties in a wonderful metaphor.  He writes about how the movies can help someone escape the pressures of everyday life.  Sailing Alone Around the Room is an excellent book.  Reading it has inspired me to continue writing my own poetry.s with several human feelings.  He writes about the plight of tortured cows in the poem Afternoon with Irish Cows.  He ponders the reason for the blindness of mice which is an allusion to the nursery rhyme Three Blind Mice.  He writes about how a dog can feel so alone and unwanted in the poem To A Stranger Born in Some Distant Country Hundreds of Years From Now.<br />Some of Billy Collins poems are obviously composed just by observing everyday life.  A good example of this is poem The Waitress.   In this poem, he writes about all the people who have waited on him in his life. Collins imagines how liberating it must feel for waitresses to be free of their duties in a wonderful metaphor.  He writes about how the movies can help someone escape the pressures of everyday life.  Sailing Alone Around the Room is an excellent book.  Reading it has inspired me to continue writing my own poetry.	2002-05-27
US	51724757	RTMFTSTCIQNI8	0802713734	707931219	Salt: A World History	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Salt is not just food	I learned a lot about salt from reading this book. Salt has been a symbol of preservation, power, oppression, health and wealth. Kurlansky takes the reader for a trip around the world to places like China, England, India the Middle East, and all over Europe to show how salt was found, made, used and valued.<br />There are all kinds of information in this book. Salt was used to not only preserve food and also human bodies. Salt was used to make gunpowder. It has also been used to deice roads in the United States. Ancient people in China and Egypt got salt by evaporating seawater. People in Mexico evaporated urine and burned plants to extract salt. I learned a lot about geography and places like Parma and the Po River in Italy where Parma cheese was first made. I learned that the area around the Dead Sea was not only a great source of salt, but also a tourist attraction with hotels and health spas.<br />I did not know people died for salt in the Civil War. Millions of slaves died making salt in mines and wells. The South actually lost the war because it could not produce enough salt to feed their armies. Making salt was a way to actually avoid military service. Salt became a symbol for all the injustices of government. By the late 18th century more than 3000 French men women or children were sentenced to prison or even death for crimes like smuggling against the salt tax called the gabelle. Women hid salt in their breasts, clothing, and even their posteriors. Smuggling was also widespread in China where the salt smuggler was seen as a hero fighting the evil salt administration. The gardens of one Chinese province has become a tourist attraction because of the salt smugglers. The British controlled the use, production, and the cost of salt in India until Gandhi's historic salt march in 1930 in which he defied British law by merely picking up some salt off a beach.<br />This book is also filled with many interesting recipes using salt with ingredients like sauerkraut, anchovies, salted beef, and honey. This is a wonderful book, because it covers so many interesting subjects. This book makes salt fascinating.anchovies, salted beef, and honey. This is a wonderful book, because it covers so many interesting subjects. This book makes salt fascinating.	2002-04-29
US	51724757	R307PC8SQ58DZ3	1558749705	419547402	Chicken Soup for the Traveler's Soul: Stories of Adventure, Inspiration and Insight to Celebrate the Spirit of Travel (Chicken Soup for the Soul)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Chicken Soup for the Travellers Soul is a winner	This is a wonderful addition to the Chicken Soup for the Soul series.  One of my favorite stories is A Visit With My Parents.  It is about a Peace Corps Volunteer living in the Philippines.  The parents of the young woman seemed to have a greater appreciation of life. They also gained a broader perspective as well simply after experiencing how hard a Flipino family worked doing daily manual labor.  They also experienced how this family lived with no electricity, plumbing, or beds which was an eye opener for them.<br />I was also touched by the story Road to Reconcilliation.  This is a touching story about a man who lost his leg in the Vietnam War.  This man had such bitterness toward his loss until he met a Vietnamese man in a sporting event for veterans.  Tran Van Son lost not only his leg but also and his entire family.  These two men become fast friends and eventually run the New York Marathon together.<br />I was touched by the story The Nicholas Effect.  This is the story about a young boy who dies in a car accident.  The majority of his organs were donated giving life to numerous people.  I loved the story Earning My Wings.  It is about a compassionate flight attendant who assists a young woman with a baby with clothes and food during a flight.  Another story that sticks out in my mind is A Fair Price.  This is a wonderful story about how an American college student working in Kenya  building classrooms encourages an African man to tell his wife that he loves her for the first time.<br />Every story in this book is so touching and inspiring.  I learned a lot about different places by reading.  Chicken Soup for the Traveller's Soul is a winner.	2002-03-16
US	51724757	R25H5PN6O4DWRP	0743237188	434448992	Fall On Your Knees (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	1	2	N	Y	My review of Fall On Your Knees	Fall on your Knees is not one of Oprah's best book picks. I had too many questions about what happened to some of the main characters after I finished it. This book left me hanging at the end after such a promising start. James Piper is a self educated man with 3 daughters. He supports his family as a piano tuner and a later as a shoe maker.<br /><br />Kathleen is the oldest daughter and the apple of her father's eye. She is encouraged by James to pursue a singing career. Kathleen has her life cut short at the age of 19 while giving birth to her twins. Her death sets the tone for the whole book. Mercedes is the responsible daughter who takes care of the family after their mother dies prematurely of a stroke. Mercedes is the only character who truly finds happiness in this book as she becomes a successful teacher later in life.  Frances is the independent and often rebellious daughter who finds brief contentment as a dancer and a singer. Frances is no strange to pain. She suffers a miscarriage and also dies prematurely of complications due to her alcohol habit.<br /><br />The book never talks about what happens to the youngest daughter Lily after she leaves Cape Breton Island.  She is the daughter of Kathleen.  Lily is given her mother's diary as a teenager.  Her diary uncovers the most shocking secret of all about Kathleen's life.  The fact that Kathleen was a lesbian and the  way in which her father found out about this was a total surprise for me  I was expecting an extra chapter about Lily's life after this bombshell of a revelation.  The book skips Lily's life entirely between the age of 15 and 45. I wasn't pleased with this.  A final chapter should be have written exclusively focusing on Lily's life and her goals and dreams.	2002-02-08
US	51724757	R2CDVIO7X2W2JQ	0060009012	678587523	The Lost Son: A Life in Pursuit of Justice	Books	5	6	10	N	N	My review of The Lost Son	I enjoyed reading about Bernard Kerik's life and accomplishments.  He had a rough start being abandoned by his alcoholic prostitute mother at age 4.  It was really touching to read about how Bernard Kerik learned about his mother who died at age 34.<br /> Bernard Kerik dropped out of high school at 16 when it was predicted by his principal that he would be nothing but a vegetable.  Kerik began his law enforcement career as a military policeman in Korea in the Army.  He studied and excelled in the martial art of Tai Kwon Do.  His  martial arts traning paid off as he later trained a Delta Force fighting group of soldiers.  Kerik later became a New York City police officer where he seized tons of cocaine off the streets in the late 80s.  Overall crime in New York reduced by 63 percent in 10 years There were 2,245 cases of murder in 1990 and 671 cases in 2000 mostly under the leadership of Mayor Giuliani and the efforts of cops like Bernard Kerik.  He later became head of corrections of notorious Rikers jail where he reduced the number of assaults by inmates from 1,200 to 12 in just 1 year.<br />The events of September 11th are talked about in this book. Kerik talks the courage, compassion, and dedication of the people who risked and lost their lives that day.  These are qualities that Bernard Kerik has shown all his life.  This is a wonderful book.	2002-01-03
US	51724757	RGKVUIBQQA32V	140003065X	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	5	12	14	N	N	My review of A Fine Balance	I loved reading this book.  It was an eye opener for me,  because I did not know of the atrocities that took place in India.  Although the characters in this book are fictional, the events described in the book are not.  Indian people are punished and killed for simply exercising their rights every human being is entitled to.  Children are beaten in this book just because they desire an education.  People are tortured and hung simply because they want to participate in the voting process. Young people are forced to endure vasectomies in order to control the population.  All the characters in this work hard in the midst of all this travesty.<br />  The main character is Dina who is denied a complete education at the age of 12 by her brother after her parents pass away.  She unfortunately becomes a widow at the age of 24.  She is undaunted by her lot in life, because she eventually learns how to sew and make clothes. Ishvar and Om are two tailors employed by Dina.  They  are from a caste of the population that work as cobblers that make leather products.  They receive the opportunity to learn a new skill and become tailors.  They want nothing more than to make enough money to return to their village.  Maneck is a college student taken in as a boarder by Dina to supplement her income.  What is most interesting about this book is tht all of these characters  are so mentally tough despite the harsh environment.<br />A Fine Balance is compelling reading.  I enjoyed reading and learning about the history and culture of India so much.	2001-12-12
US	51724757	R1KQ1RP4NHDOZ0	0786868090	565176895	The Best Loved Poems of Jacqueline Kennedy-Onassis	Books	5	25	27	N	Y	more comments about this wonderful book	There are some short poems in this book that are very enjoyable.  The poems by Edna St Vincent Millay and Emily Dickinson are great examples.  I was drawn to Hope Is The Thing with Feathers  I loved the interesting title, but I also appreciated the  wonderful metaphor in the poem about what hope is.  I loved Portrait By a Neighbor by Edna St Vincent Millay.  Her poems exemplify that mere observations and perceptions can be very poetic.<br /><br />I loved the poem Ithaca because it is such a motivational poem.  It has wonderful vivid images.  This kind of poem can motivate people to go out and seek their own adventure  Another motivational poem is Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening.  The last stanza of the poem was quoted by President Kennedy in his speeches.  It is a great poem about determination and staying true to your goals.<br /><br />Loss can be very poetic.  This is evident in another one of my favorite poems in this book Annabelle Lee.  It is a lovely lyrical poem about losing the love of one's life.  It is about loving a person so much in life that you can't bear to live without them after they are gone.<br /><br />The section in the book written by Jacqueline O herself is noteworthy.  The essay about The Books I Read When I was young is very inspring.  Jackie O's poem about her husband Meanwhile in Massachusetts is very reflective and prophetic.<br /><br />This is one of the best books I have read all year.	2001-11-10
US	51724757	RNJ21JZQBIT7S	0786868090	565176895	The Best Loved Poems of Jacqueline Kennedy-Onassis	Books	5	21	23	N	Y	this is a wonderful book	It is impossible to select a favorite poem in this book, because they are all so beautiful and unique.  I loved the diversity of themes in this book.    There are poems about America, Adventure, Escape, Reflection, Romance and Love.  These were subjects that were important to Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis.  Caroline Kennedy writes such eloquent introductions to each theme.  Each introduction gives us a glimpse into what a beautiful person Jackie Kennedy was.       There are several passages from the Bible that are just wonderful.  I loved the passage from Ecclesiastes, because it so deep and philosophical in the way it describes the cycle of things in life.  The passage from Matthew is very good because it talks about the virtues we should all try to cultivate like being merciful and being pure of heart.  The 23rd psalm is a wonderful poem.  It teaches us to accept and not to be afraid of death.    I loved the poems by Robert Frost and Langston Hughes selected in this book.  Let America Be America Again addresses  the subject of inequality.  This poem is so optimistic and patriotic as Hughes identifies himself with every race in America.   One  of my favorite poems by Robert Frost is presented here.    I really enjoyed the Road Not Taken because it has a very clear message.  Each of us has to make a decision about what path we want to take in life and that decision is not always easy.      Some of the love poems in the book are hard to understand especially the sonnets and the poems   I loved the line Shall I compare thee to a summer's day.  Even though I didn't understand the whole poem, the first two lines are beautiful.   I loved She Walks in Beauty by Lord Byron because of the poet's descriptive words and memorable phrases like the first line she walks in beauty like the night    I really like the last 2 lines of this poem.  I seek someone whose mind is at peace and whose heart whose love is innocent as the poem suggests.  This is such a enjoyable book.   It has inspired me to continue writing poetry of my own.	2001-11-05
US	51724757	R1V64C9F1CEJ72	0374100128	647099960	The Corrections	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	My review of The Corrections	The Corrections takes a good hard look at the complex relationships within a family.  Each member of The Lambert family has their own faults.  The patriarch of the family is Alfred Lambert.  He is a retired railroad engineer who works hard to support his family.  However, Alfred  doesn't show any affection toward any member of his family.  Alfred emotionally distances himself from his family.  This has an effect on everyone.  Enid Lambert is his long suffering wife who is taken for granted in this book by her husband.  Enid sacrifices his career as a book keeper to raise a family of 3 children Gary, Chip and Denise.<br />  Alfred never praises his wife for a job well done.  Enid practically raises their 3 children all by herself, because Alfred does not provide any emotional support for his children.<br />Enid becomes Al's  care taker when his health declines.  This becomes a burden for her which doesn't sit well with her children especially Gary.<br />At the beginning of his father's illness, Gary urges that Al should be placed in a care home.  This would relieve  Enid of her obligation to care for him.  This is a major issue in this book and  society today about who should take of the elderly when they get sick.<br /><br />Gary is a depressed family man who is unable to express his feelings.  Gary is incapable of showing warmth and detaches himself from everybody.  This is a trait that he obviously inherited from his father He fights with his wife over meaningless things not telling the truth about how she hurt herself. He is bitter towards his parents especially his mother for telling him how to run his life particularly how to raise his kids.<br /><br />Chip is a former college professor who loses his job after an<br />affair with a student.  Chip feels his parents don't approve of his life or his job.  To Chip, Alfred's lack of affection toward him as a child solidifies Chip's belief that Al never loved or understood him.<br />  Denise is a successful cook who happens to be a lesbian.  Denise's shortcoming is her failure to be honest with herself about her sexual orientation.  This leads to the breakdown of her relationship with her boss and her bosses wife.  She has an intimate relationship with both of them.  Denise is almost the mirror image of her mother in the sense that she feels obligated to take on a lot of a responsibility and is put upon by other people.<br />This book is a good escape for people who perceive their problems and relationships to be too great or stressful.  I enjoyed reading The Corrections.sful cook who happens to be a lesbian.      Denise's shortcoming is her failure to be honest with herself about her sexual orientation.      This leads to the breakdown of her relationship with her boss and her bosses wife.   She has an intimate relationship with both of them.   Denise is almost the mirror image of her mother in the sense that she feels obligated to take on a lot of a responsibility and is put upon by other people.<br />This book is a good escape for people who perceive their problems and relationships to be too great or stressful.   I enjoyed reading The Corrections.	2001-10-18
US	51724757	R315194F9AL32D	0399146113	495393406	It's Not about the Bike: My Journey Back to Life	Books	5	4	4	N	N	You don't have to know anything about cycling to enjoy this.	I enjoyed reading about Lance Armstrong's experiences as a cancer survivor and a champion cyclist.  I did not know that fighting cancer or the Tour De France was as long and gruelling as he describes in this book.  He has the fierce determination to be successful at whatever he does.  This is what makes Lance Armstrong's story so interesting.<br />  I loved reading about the main people in his life.  The influence that these people. have had on him is so interesting.  Being raised by a single mother,  Lance learned independence and toughness.  He learned that life is precious and should never been be granted.  This is of course from the compassionate doctors and nurses who treated him during his cancer treatment.  The trials and tribulations Lance and his wife Kik go through trying to have a baby are very personal.  Lance Armstrong's greatest victory is not winning the Tour De France 3 times.  His greatest victory is his journey back to life as the title of the book states.  This is a wonderful read.	2001-08-08
US	51724757	R6T9ARBB31AZT	0786868619	719432164	Stolen Lives: Twenty Years in a Desert Jail (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	15	18	N	Y	This is such a moving book	I wasn't even aware that human rights violations existed in Morocco until I read this book. Malika Oufkir was separated from her family and raised in the palace of the king of Morocco at age 5. Malika was separated from her family, because she was seen as an ideal playmate for the king's daughter who was about the same age. She lived a pampered life with servants. However, Malika dreamed of freedom and suffered from profound loneliness. She got so lonely to the point where she tried to committ suicide as a child. She was imprisoned at age 18 with her entire family after her father General Oufkir attempted to kill the king Hassen II in an effort to depose him.<br />Deprivation was a fact of life. They lacked everything from adequate food, books, health care, and even human contact. One sibling suffered from anorexia. Another sibling suffered from epileptic fits. It was Malika who took care of everyone who got sick. The youngest of 7 siblings was deprived of everything being only 3 years old when imprisoned. The family even experienced solitary confinement for long periods of time.<br /> I was amazed at how well Malika and her oldest brother Raouf educated their younger siblings early in their incarceration material was taken away She taught her young siblings how to read and write in French, Arabic and English. Brother Raouf helped with math and geography. They entertained themselves by making up stories and putting on shows for one another. They made toys for the little ones of wood and cardboard. They used Tide detergent to wash themselves with.<br />The Oufkir family escaped from jail and such poor conditions in 1987 after 15 years. They were to be imprisoned again in a nice house but still surrounded by guards for more 5 years. I learned from reading this book that true freedom does not always mean a change in surroundings. True freedom happens when people are free to choose how they want to live their lives. This is an excellent read.	2001-05-29
US	51724757	R3V1FKJ2GHG0J	0142000205	497257633	Icy Sparks (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	This book is a winner	I enjoyed reading this book,  because I learned about a subject I knew nothing about before.  This is a wonderful coming of age novel set in rural Kentucky in the 1950's.  The main character is an orphan named Icy Sparks.  She  suffers from Tourette's syndrome which  causes her body to jerk involuntarily.  Tourettes also causes Icy to repeat curse words uncontrollably.  This condition leads to much embarassment at school in her early years.  She is teased and shunned by her classmates.  Icy spends some time in a mental hospital upon the suggestion of her school principal and grandparents.  She makes friends with other disabled people there.  She also learns new ways to deal with her disorder during her stay.  Miss Emily is a compassionate fat woman. She is Icy's best friend throughout the book.  I loved the relationship between these two characters.  She teaches Icy her academic subjects and about life too.  I loved the ending of the book.  It is so touching when Icy finally finds her gift.  I highly recommend Icy Sparks.	2001-03-25
US	51724757	R1V0BB1E2NPNMQ	0399146431	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	5	7	8	N	N	I loved The Bonesetter's daughter	This is a wonderful new book by Amy Tan.  I was intrigued just by the title.  The bonesetter is a doctor who creates powders and potions using dragon bones to heal ailments.  I love reading about Chinese women too.  This is the reason I bought this book.  Luling is a strong woman who raises her daughter Ruth  by herself after outliving 2 husbands.  Luling  is the daughter of a mute nursemaid whose identity is unknown to Luling until after her death. I loved reading about how Luling grew up  in an orphange.  She finds love and a vocation in the orphange. This is probably the most touching part of the book.  Ruth Young is a ghostwriter who takes on the responsibility for her mother's care after she develops Alzheimers disease while juggling her career and other demands. This is a very enjoyable book.	2001-03-04
US	51724757	R1KNUK84VF3LO2	0684863472	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work Of Staggering Genius : A Memoir Based on a True Story	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of the year's best books	I read this book over the hollidays, and I couldn't put it down. This is an unique  book about a young man who raises his little  brother after  losing his parents to cancer so suddenly.  Eggers talks about having an alcoholic father he hardly knew.  He recounts the emotional  experience of scattering his mother's ashes in Lake Michigan.  He writes about struggling to have a social life while raising his brother like how guilty he feels leaving his brother with a sitter for the first time.  He does all parental things like cooking and going to his brother's open house at school.  He recounts the trials and tribulations of being an editor for a fledging  20 something magazine called Might.  He writes about his friends and his childhood in vivid detail like the young woman who comes out of  a coma after falling from a building.  Eggers talks about another friend who attempts to commit suicide by shallowing a bottle of pills.  This is a very entertaining book by a talented new writer.	2001-01-03
US	51724757	R2Y92Z25J6PXH0	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This is an excellent book.	The Poisonwood Bible is one of Oprah's  better selections this year.  It  is  the story of the Prices a white family  running a church mission in the  Congo during the early years of Congo's independence from Belgium.  They  experience poverty  starvation,  violence,  and religious strife between  black and white people.  There are 4 sisters at the beginning of the  who  learn  to assimilate to the culture and language in the Congo.  Their  mother is the victim of an abusive husband who doesn't care about his  family.  He only cares about preaching the word of God  Thus the  children are forced to learn  to fend for themselves.  This book is filled  with African words that are enjoyable to learn.  The lives and  personalities of the sisters Leah, Rachel, and Adah are transformed after  living in the Congo.  The death of the youngest sister causes everyone to  go their separate ways.  All 3 sisters go on to  have successful careers  as a result of the work ethic they learned living in Congo.  One sister  becomes a teacher.  One sister becomes a doctor.  The other sister finds  happiness in running a hotel.  This book is impossible to put down.	2000-09-16
US	51724757	R2Q94XUUBFFMLV	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I can't wait for the sequel	I bought The Goblet of Fire and The Prisoner of Azkaban at the same time just to see what the hype was about.  I read both books  in 5 days, and now  I am a fan.  Goblet of Fire is  has our hero Harry Potter competing  in a  prestigious  wizard tournament in  his 4th year  at Hogwarts  school.  Harry displays feats of bravery and courage like attempting to get past a  dragon while flying on a broomstick,  and going through a maze  full of  dangerous creatures  Familliar characters return like Harry's best friends  Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger as well as a host of other memorable  characters.  The ending of the book left me eagerly anticipating the next  installment in this imaginative and enjoyable series.	2000-08-03
US	51724757	RLY85F0UQ0Z1U	0671047353	474493543	Dogs with Jobs	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	You will enjoy  this book even though you don't own a dog.	I was amazed by every exploit from every dog in this book.  I was impressed by Bruno the German Shepherd who has assisted and protected  his partner who is a police officer on 800 arrests half involving dangerous  felons.  This same dog has found 9 lost children 3 of whom no one else  could track.  I loved the story of Willie the golden retriever who  predicts epileptic seizures and protects his owner from harm.  This dog was  trained to operate a footpad telephone  in case of an emergency  This  incredible dog will even bark to remind his owner to take her medicine.  I  liked the story of AJ the bloodhound and Rachel the pet detectives.  AJ is  a former police dog  who found a missing Alzheimer's patient, rescued a  lost hiker and earned an award for saving the life of suicidal man.  AJ is  now teamed up with Rachel a Weimaraner a dog who searched for cadaver and  body parts.  She uses her sniffing skills to help AJ locate missing pets.  I enjoyed the story of Mas the Newfoundland who can swim a mile to a  drowning person and tow them to safety.  This dog is strong enough to pull  a sailboat filled with people to safety.  There are other dogs in this book  like Endal a Labrador retriever who assists a  man in a wheelchair by doing  everything from reminding him to look both ways when crossing the street  to retrieving socks, groceries and even money.  You will enjoy the stories  in this book even if you don't own a dog.	2000-06-10
US	51724757	R24C5H5FZ4JONW	0385315902	486637949	Letters of the Century: America 1900-1999	Books	5	29	32	N	N	This book is a treasure	This book is a wonderful collection of stories from every year of the 20th century.  The authors of the letters are famous people  and ordinary citizens.  These letters express every human emotion love, loss, triumph,  joy, and hope. This book is a pleasure to read.<br />My favorite story is  about a young woman writing to her best friend about her bad marriage.  Her  husband is physically abusive to her and her son.  She yearns for the  courage to escape and become an independant woman which she eventually  does.  Another story  by a young man who actually survived the sinking of  the Titanic  He writes his girlfriend about his experience of getting off  the ship and waiting to be rescued.<br />There is a letter by a woman in  Hawaii to her brother in Ohio.  She recounted witnessing the bombing of  Pearl Harbor during World War 2.  She recounts going to a bomb shelter and  depicts the commaraderie among the people of the time.<br />There is a Dear  John letter addressed to Ernest Hemmingway from a nurse who cared for him  while he was wounded in World War 1 He loved her but their relationship was  a mere fling to her.  She lets him down gently.  This relationship  inspired Hemingway to write the novel The Sun Also Rises.  There is  another letter written by  a young unwed pregnant woman in the 1930's  seeking advice from a doctor.  Her father has no knowledge of the pregnancy  and her mother is dead.  She has nobody to turn to and her desperate plea  for guidance is very touching.<br />There is another poignant letter written  by the sister of a Vietnam Vet who died from lymphnoma as a result of  exposure to Agent Orange.  She expresses her disbelief, loss and sorrow to  an anti war group.  There are several stories written by expectant parents  to their unborn children.  Each letter is filled with anticipation and  hope.  Buy this book.  You will never be able to put it down.	2000-05-07
US	51724757	R1JXJ4IS11AIIF	0670894184	334925003	Back Roads (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	I could not put this book down	I couldn't put this book  down until I finished it.  This book grabs your attention in the first chapter and never lets go.  Harley  and his  sisters are victims of child abuse and neglect.  Harley is thrust with  the responsibility with  raising his younger sisters after his mother goes  to prison  for killing his father.  Harley eventually learns the truth  about his father's death from his mother  and that is the biggest surprise  of all.  Harley's sister's Misty and Amber both crave love and attention  from him.  They seem innocent but they  are nothing but that.  The  pressure  of keeping his  family together is overwhelming for Harley and he  finds solace  in his lover Calliie and his shrink Betty.  Back Roads is a  very  suspenseful novel with many twists and turns	2000-04-07
US	51724757	R337TIFGY1DRA7	037550396X	928062715	Life Is So Good	Books	5	19	20	N	N	An excellent book	You are never too old to learn that is the message I got from reading this book.  Mr Dawson  knew about having pride, making sacrifices, and maintaning a sense of dignity.  I found all these things to be inspiring.  George Dawson raised 7 children who all graduated from college.  Without  being able to read, he helped his children with their homework by having  them read their homework out loud to him.  George Dawson left home at  age 12 to work on a white man's  farm to help out  his struggling family.  He  knew the meaning of sacrifice at a early age.  He refused to eat a  bowl of stew simply because  it was placed on the porch where the dogs ate.  He made it clear that he was a human being and deserved to be treated with  respect.  Anything is possible even learning to read at 98.  This is a  wonderful book.	2000-03-25
