US	51729554	R31Z8X9X42859	1590581814	355719518	Drive	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A STYLISH RIDE	Occasionally #1 comes up with the correct rating for a book even though, in this case, she is confused about the central character's name.  James Sallis has crafted an excellent noir thriller -- like a complicated mosaic -- from small, tantalizing fragments in the life of Driver, a Hollywood stunt driver who moolights behind the wheel of getaway cars.  Driver is so cool his pores exude frost rather than sweat.    As the story begins, people are trying to kill Driver because of a Phoenix heist that went wrong.  Flashbacks from Driver's past life are interspersed with those from the robbery and his present efforts to extricate himself from his predicament.      Sallis transmutes a simple double-cross and revenge plot into a stylish tour de force.  Highly recommended.	2005-10-01
US	51729554	R1XV7TCJTFRB8B	156512460X	861425563	The Botanist and the Vintner: How Wine Was Saved for the World	Books	5	6	6	N	N	THE WINE BUG	This is a marvelous book that will appeal equally to wine buffs, history buffs, science buffs, and the general reader.  It is constructed like a mystery story (replete with detectives, victims, and villains) about the search for the cause and cure  for a grapevine malady that began decimating European vineyards in the 1860s.  Don't be put off by the inept title on the American edition.    Christy Campbell turns the Byzantine life cycle of Phylloxera vastatrix into a plot device to be unraveled by doughty scientific sleuths on both sides of the Atlantic.  He describes the tragic effect of the plague on peasant vignerons of the Midi, where it first appeared, and the resulting political fallout.  Bizarre remedies and inventions offered to cope with this root aphid provide comic relief.  Campbell even includes short summaries of the afterlives of his chief protagonists.  The book has excellent maps and a detailed timeline to help the reader keep track of the sequence of events.    Campbell is neither a wine writer nor an enthusiast, but rather  the defense correspondent for the British Sunday Telegraph.  His two previous books dealt with Victorian political intrigues.  Nevertheless, his meticulous research in French archives has unearthed information that will be new even to those who think they are well informed about Phylloxera.    The weakest part of the book is its final chapter, a hodgepodge dealing with the new outbreak of Phylloxera in California beginning in the 1980's and other recent developments.  After the thorough way Campbell dealt with earlier events, its brevity is disappointing.  He is much more lenient with the mandarins of UC Davis than with the scientific bureaucrats of 19th century France.  He goes into great detail about the confusion engendered by official pronouncements in the earlier era, but ignores the obfuscation and mixed messages that emanated from Davis during the California crisis.  Instead he marvels at the scientific tools quickly brought to bear on the problem. Nor does Campbell analyze the economic consequences of the \\"reconstitution\\" of California viticulture -- Perhaps because it is still playing out.  For bad measure he includes a few pages about genetic engineering of grapevines and a five page \\"Postcript\\" on the question of whether wine from grafted vines tastes as good as that from those grown on their own roots.  All three topics deserve betters treatment than is offered here.	2005-09-22
US	51729554	R5F3S5E58X1SG	0727862073	433157835	Holmes Factor (Sebastian Holmes)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	SON OF SHERLOCK	Coutless authors have tried their hand at resurrecting Shelock Holmes with varying degrees of success.  I have read two recently that merit the attention of mystery readers and Holmes afficionados.  The better of the two, A SLIGHT TRICK OF THE MIND, by Mitch Cullin rivals Meyer's THE SEVEN PERCENT SOLUTION in my esteem.  The second, THE HOLMES FACTOR,by Brian Freemantle,is thoroughly enjoyable, without deserving such exalted comparisons.    The most important Holmes in THE HOLMES FACTOR is Sebatian Holmes, a son Sherlock fathered while hiding out in Switzerland following his supposed death at the Reichenbach Falls.  Sebastian was raised by Mycroft Holmes, learning only a year ago the true identity of his father.  Sherlock and son have just returned from a reconciliatory trip to Switzerland, but are still prickly with each other.    It is the eve of World War I and Mycroft is in charge of Great Britain's secret service.  He and Winston Churchill (First Lord of the Admiralty)send Sebastian on a mission to St. Petersburg to gather intelligence on the stability of the Russian monarchy. An unhappy Sherlock is consigned to the distinctly secondary role of analyzing the information Sebastian sends back.    This book reminds me of the Laurie King series of Holmes novels starring Mary Russell.  In spite of the impausibility of the entire concept, Freemantle tells an engaging story, full of derring-do and romance.  Sebastian encounters Stalin, Trotsky, and Rasputin, while romancing the daughter of the chief of the Tsar's secret police.  I see Brad Pitt as Sebastian in the movie version.	2005-09-14
US	51729554	R3VKF9SQGC6RG6	0275983528	237264439	Listener Supported: The Culture and History of Public Radio	Books	4	1	4	N	N	IN THE BEGINNING...	LISTENER SUPPORTED provides a useful(if somewhat dry)account of National Public Radio's development from its difficult birth in 1967 to the end of the 20th century.  Mitchell has impeccable insider credentials for the task: he was NPR's first employee, the first producer of All Things Considered, and three-time chairman of NPR's board of directors.    In keeping with his current job as a journalism professor, Mitchell takes a detached, academic approach to the problems and controversies that have beset NPR over the years.  The book would be more engaging if Mitchell displayed more personal passion and would have attracted a larger audience if he had chosen to dish behind-the-scenes gossip about NPR's on-air personalities.    LISTENER SUPPORTED is worth reading just for the story of the machinations of Bill Kling, President of Minnesota Public Radio (a.k.a. Public Radio International).  He used Prairie Home Companion as a vehicle to become a competitor to, as well as a customer of NPR.  Kling is proof that entrepreneurial spirit exists even in the ivory towers of public radio.    The least interesting part of the book, for this reader, was the final section dealing with critics of the \\"Right\\" and of the \\"Left\\".  Mitchell categorizes critics of the left as \\"Frustrated Progressives\\", \\"Frustrated Pacifists\\", \\"Frustrated Curators\\", \\"Frustrated Mass Educators\\", \\"Frustrated Populists\\", or \\"Frustrated Community Builders\\".  He offers no neat pigeon holes for the rightest critics.	2005-09-13
US	51729554	R3K4R52DMK0HNC	0385511248	393815345	Dearly Devoted Dexter: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	MARVELOUSLY MACABRE MYSTERY	The protagonist of this thriller displays the flip, hip humor of an Elmore Leonard narrator plopped down in a plot by the Marquis de Sade. Author Jeff Lindsay seems addicted to gore and mordant dialogue, as well as to alliteration with the letter \\"D\\". <br /> <br /> The eponymous Dexter Morgan is a serial vigilante who specializes in taking out serial killers without the benefit of jury trial.  Years before, his foster father, a cop, recognized young Dexter's violent, amoral proclivities and channeled them in an illegal, but socially beneficial direction.  Dexter is now a cop, himself, with a day job as a forensic specialist in blood spatter patterns.  The only living person who knows about the \\"dark passenger\\" in Dexter's soul and his second job as volunteer avenger is his sister, Detective Sergeant Deborah Morgan. <br /> <br />In DEADLY DEVOTED DEXTER, the duo comes up against a serial, surgical murderer whose motive is revenge against fellow members of a secret US terror/torture operation in El Salvador years earlier.  Naturally the nameless, national security agency sends its own people to Miami to take over the investigation from the local police.  To complicate matters Deborah falls for the head honcho from Washington and Dexter has drawn the suspicious attention of another sergeant in the department during his most recent \\"clean-up job\\". <br /> <br />This is an off-beat, original concept that will be enjoyed by readers with strong stomachs.	2005-08-28
US	51729554	R19310Z9I254GC	0060764686	679697329	Understanding Iraq: The Whole Sweep of Iraqi History from Genghis Khan's Mongols to the Ottoman Turks to the British Mandate to the American Occupation	Books	5	31	35	N	N	BRIEF AND VALUABLE	UNDERSTANDING IRAQ is a brief, but extremely valuable, survey of Iraq's history from the prehistoric Ubaidians to the 2004 Iraq Provisional Authority. The book is divided into six chapters: Ancient Iraq, Islamic Iraq, British Iraq, American Iraq, and Whose Iraq?. The history is interlaced with William Polk's views on how current US policy interacts with that history.  He is well-qualified for this task, for he has spent nearly sixty years visiting, studying, and teaching about Iraq.  Polk presents a much more credible explanation of why the United States has become unpopular in the Muslim world that Bernard Lewis did in his CRISIS OF ISLAM.  He is also a better writer than Lewis, marshalling his facts and opinions into crisp, orderly prose. <br /> <br />Polk identifies mistakes recent US administrations have made in dealing with Iraq; many of them eerily similar to those made by the Brtish during their rule under League of Nations mandate in the 1920's and 1930's.  The \\"shock and awe\\" of that era was generated by \\"armed Fords\\" and biplanes.  The British installed as puppet king, Faisal, a man who had never previously set foot in the country.  The US selected to head the Provisional Authority, Iyad al-Allawi, who once was a senior Baathist in Saddam's secret police and then for thirty years an anti-Saddam expatriate funded by the CIA.  Another grievous US mistake, according to Polk, is in creating a large, well-trained Iraqi army instead of a large, well-trained Iraqi police force.  It was the British-trained Iraqi army whose revolt in 1958 led to the dictatorship of Saddam. <br /> <br />Anyone still doubting the old saw about the need to learn from history to avoid repeating its mistakes ought to read the letter T E Lawrence (of Arabia)wrote to the London Times in 1920.  \\"The people of England have been led in Mesopotamia into a trap from which it will be hard to escape with dignity and honour.  They have been tricked into it...\\"	2005-05-31
US	51729554	R1BVZPMPL8V5ZD	0743257995	728332589	Bad Dirt: Wyoming Stories 2	Books	2	10	12	N	N	A BAD PATCH	Miz Proulx musta' gotten into a patch of locoweed while she was a'writing these stories.  Or maybe she has just grown tired of the spare landscapes and stubborn people she described so carefully in her first collection of Wyoming stories, AT CLOSE RANGE.  The subtle,somber hues of those stories have been replaced in BAD DIRT by a garish, psychedelic pallete.<br /><br />Gaudy colors do not, however, equate to warmth.  Proulx's stories are inflated, unfunny jokes and most of her characters are unattractive caricatures bearing improbable names like Fiesta Punch, Reverend Pecker, Suzzy New, Lobett Pulvertoft Thirkill, Mercedes de Silhouette, and Dr. Playfire.  The plots go beyond improbable.  A game warden discovers a hidden entrance to Hell in a Forest Service parking area and uses it to deal with out-of-state poachers.  A red-furred badger tells his cronies that a rancher's wife has fallen in love with him.  A bartender imports alligators to defend her vegetable garden from marauding cows.  An expatriate makes accidental use of a magic teakettle found when cleaning out her late mother's house.<br /><br />Despite heavy lardings of fictional biography and gratuitous back-story, the stories in BAD DIRT smell anachronistic.  They are the sort of tall tales the denizens of bars like the fictional Pee Wee's in Elk Tooth, Wyoming might tell about their parents or grandparents.  Yet Proulx's crusty eccentrics are mostly baby-boomers living in the first decade of the 21st century, not the first half of the 20th.<br /><br />Perhaps not coincidentally, the best story in the collection, \\"Man Crawling Out Of Trees\\" concerns transplanted easterners, like Proulx herself, learning to cope with life in Wyoming.  In the end, one of them flees back to New York.  Perhaps BAD DIRT is meant to be Proulx's exit line.	2005-05-10
US	51729554	R26VDAQ9WOTA0I	0451213947	816881797	Assault And Pepper (Pennsylvania Dutch Mystery)	Books	2	5	7	N	N	A SEVERE CASE OF THE CUTES	ASSAULT AND PEPPER suffers from a severe case of the cutes, which is too bad because its author, Tamar Myers, is capable of sharp comic writing.  The beloved minister of Beechy Grove Mennonite Church in Hernia, PA dies of an overdose of peanut butter and topples into the pot of chili he has just blessed.  His widow asks Magdalena Yoder, proprietor of the PennDutch Inn and amateur sleuth, to investigate his death and then goes bonkers. <br /> <br />If James Bond is a post-pubescent male fantasy, Magdalena Yoder is his female equivalent.  She is tall and thin, even though she subsists on a diet of chocolate cake, cookies, and hot chocolate laced with marshmallows.  Self-described as flat chested, long nosed, and middle aged, she nevertheless sparks the libidos of several male citizens of Hernia, including a hunky doctor.  She talks and acts like one of the tough broads in pre-code movies, but thinks of herself as a pious Mennonite.  To top it off, she is wealthy. <br /> <br />Magdalena is no Miss Marple, even though she is a lifelong resident of ingrown Hernia.  Otherwise, she would not be so surprised by uncovering the peccadilloes of her fellow villagers. Myers has created a town filled with exaggerated cartoon characters, some of them wildly funny. <br /> <br />Another reviewer suggests that this book may be Magdalena's swan song.  There is certainly a touch of Gotterdammerung in its ending.  Let's hope Tamar Myer has a better creation waiting in the wings.	2005-04-20
US	51729554	R3Q3FHCKOSKSDI	1593600232	990955217	The Science of Middle-Earth: Explaining The Science Behind The Greatest Fantasy Epic Ever Told!	Books	4	12	16	N	N	CAN BALROGS FLY?	Only hard-core Tolkien fans will enjoy this book in its entirety, but it nevertheless offers useful insights into Tolkien's writing and the factors that influenced it.    Gee, a senior editor of Nature, rejects the notion that Tolkien was a Luddite.  He says Tolkien distinguished between benign science and science put to perverse uses, i.e. to achieve power over others.  In his view, Tolkien's academic discipline, philology,was as rigorous as the sciences.  Gee demonstrates that Tolkien was conversant with contemporary scientific thought and was a reader of early science fiction writers like H G Wells and John Wyndham.    Gee devotes most of the book to looking at possible scientific explanations for phenomena like the source of a dragon's fire, the composition of mithril, the propagation of orcs, etc.  This may be an entertaining parlor game for the initiates, but it is heavy going for the casual reader of Tolkien.    I think Gee's most valuable contribution to our understanding of Tolkien is a literary observation he offers, almost as an afterthought, near the end of the book.  He writes about the over-arching \\"sense of loss\\" that pervades all of Tolkien's fiction, even in its most triumphal moments.  For Tolkien there was no \\"final\\" victory, just a series of rearguard struggles that exact a cost on the winners as well as the losers.  It is this melancholy leitmotif that elevates Lord of the Rings out of the sword and sorcery genre into the realm of literature.	2005-02-25
US	51729554	R2JFF3HSG3WDJ8	1557287775	320281630	STRANGER AND A SOJOURNER:PASSAGE PETER CAULDER, FREE BLACK FRONTIER ARKANSAS	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A VALUABLE ADDITION	Billy D Higgins presents information in this book that broadens our understanding of US history.  He tells the life story of Peter Caulder, a man of color, who grew up in an integrated rural community in Marion County, South Carolina where free black and white yeomen lived and cooperated in apparent harmony.  Peter, his father, and several friends were recruited into the local milita unit as substitutes for more affluent neighbors and then into the US Rifle Regiment.  These people of color served in an integrated army unit during the War of 1812 and, in Caulder's case, long after. <br /> <br />Caulder remained in the army for fourteen years, spending most of his time at frontier posts in northwestern Arkansas Territory.  After leaving the army, he became a landowner and taxpayer in a free black enclave on the White River in Arkansas. <br /> <br />Unfortunately Higgins as created his book out of very limited  documentation by padding fact with speculation, repitition, and extraneous information. Peter Caulder,like most of the people around him, was illiterate.  The written record of his life is scantily recorded in census counts, army records and reports, sutlers' accounts, tax rolls, and the accounts of the few literate people with whom he came in contact.  The book is awash in \\"may have\\", \\"might have\\", \\"perhaps\\", and \\"probably\\".  The factual material is sufficient for a scholarly article, but not a book. <br /> <br />I still recommend it.  In addition to telling Caulder's story, the book describes military life on the southeastern frontier and supplies interesting glimpses of US-Indian interaction in the wake of the Louisiana Purchase.  Like NEGRO COWBOYS by Durham & Everett, A STRANGER AND A SOJOURNER compels the reader to rearrange the furniture in his attic of preconceptions.	2005-02-02
US	51729554	R1D1VSAI5SUDAT	1569473765	576294455	The Coroner's Lunch	Books	5	7	8	N	N	THE MAIGRET OF THE MEKHONG	This was, unquestionably, the best mystery novel I read in 2004.  It is thoroughly original and very enjoyable.  Let us hope it is not the last from Colin Cotterill.  In Dr. Siri Paiboun, he has created one of the most engaging sleuths to come along since Joe Leaphorn.  The setting is exotic; Laos shortly after the Pathet Lao came to power in the mid 70's. <br /> <br />The elderly Paiborn has been \\"rewarded\\" for his decades of field service as a doctor caring for wounded revolutionaries in the nothern jungle by being made chief (and sole) coroner of Laos.  Siri has no training or experience in forensic medicine.  His autopsy lab has primitive equipment left behind by the French and no chemical supplies.  His assistants are a man with Down's Syndrome and a nurse who spends her free time studying pop culture magazines.  To complicate matters further, Siri has begun to see apparitions -- mostly of dead people. <br /> <br />Siri gets his first real challenge when the wife of a high party official is poisoned.  As Siri wrestles with this and other problems, Cotterill treats the reader to a painless short course in the geography, culture, and political milieu of Laos at a turning point in its history.	2005-01-03
US	51729554	R26IU6EJ9B5V6S	0312321937	831564143	The Fall: A Thriller	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A GREAT FALL	THE FALL is a cynical, tough-minded thriller that may unsettle some readers.  I found it refreshing reading in this political season where all nuance is lost and only simplistic black or white is the order of the day.    Joanne Lessing is a professional photographer on assignment in a Chicago suburb who snaps a picture of a hit-and-run driver who sideswipes a parked car.  Though no one is injured, Joanne reports the incident to the Northbrook Police.  Only later, when detectives and a gaggle of FBI agents descend on her, does Joanne learn that the driver was probably a Mafia hit man leaving the scene of his latest crime.  She identifies the driver and is subpoenaed to testify at a hearing to get a wiretap on the suspect's telephone.    A hit-and-run driver kills another supposed witness and a bomb is discovered in Joanne's car.  The FBI insists that she and her son go into the Federal Witness Protection program.  The Chicago FBI office is struggling to identify who is leaking information about its witnesses to the Mafia at the same time they are trying to nail the hit man known as \\"Mr. Million\\".  To complicate matters further, Joanne and one of the FBI agents, Paul Minorini, fall for each other.    One wonders what \\"fall\\" Dymmoch has in mind with her title.  The story begins in the fall of the year, but I think she has a more Miltonian fall in mind.  There are plenty of candidates:  prideful, straight-arrow Minorini;  Dossi, the untouchable hit man; or one of the several other characters who fall in one sense or another.    PUBLISHER'S WEEKLY says THE FALL \\"...ends in a moral quagmire some readers may find unsatisfying\\".  Many fine novels, from DON QUIXOTE to A S Byatt's POSSESSION, end in moral ambiguity.  Most murder mystery plots do indeed end tidily with the scales of justice neatly balanced.  Perhaps that's why they are so popular.  Bravo to Ms Dymmoch for giving the reader something messier and closer to real life.	2004-09-21
US	51729554	RFGYU3LGKQK0Y	0802117732	166279916	True North	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A SHAGGY OEDIPUS JOKE	Jim Harrison gives away the punch line to this Shaggy Oedipus story before it even begins.  In a one-page prelude, the narrator describes pushing his horribly mutilated father out of a rowboat adrift off the coast of Mexico.  One must accompany David Burkett, fourth-generation scion of a family of Upper Peninsula timber barons, for three decades and four hundred pages to reach this incident a second time.<br />Burkett is a feckless twenty-something when the story opens in the 1960's.  Ex-college student, ex-seminarian, he is staying with an alcoholic uncle to escape the rest of his dysfunctional family.  The male members of his clan are famous despoilers of nature and of women.  David hates his father who is dissapating what is left of the family fortune in ill-considered pursuit of underage girls, including his own daughter.  <br />To expiate the sins of his father, grandfather, and great grandfather, David sets out to write a book exposing their malfeasance.  He begins his reasearch by systematically counting stumps on lands his family lumbered, while living a hermit existence in a cabin left him by another relative.  And this is one of the happier periods of his life.<br />Reading this book is like a soggy hike through the woodlands Harrison describes so lovingly and so well.  One is depressed and exhilarated at the same time.  The scenery is terrific, but the characters, including the narrator, are singularly unattractive.  A dog and a Chippewa gardener are the only sympathetic figures in David Burkett's picaresque adventures -- and they are both dead by the time we arrive back at the rowboat.<br />Harrison is allegedly very popular in France.  His writing is called &quot;Mozartean&quot;. Do the three sections of TRUE NORTH make it a concerto?  Jazz seems the better musical analogy.  Riffs on theology, literature, and psychoanalysis are dotted through the narrative in seemingly random manner.  The plot meanders like one of the UP trout streams Burkett fishes.<br/>Hemmingway is not on any of the reading lists Burkett is given frequently by other characters, but he looms, unseen, over the story like Banquo's ghost.  The Upper Peninsula setting invites comparisons.  Burkett has the outdoorsman physicality of a Hemmingway hero, but none of the duende.  One can't help noticing an echo, in the rowbat scene, of an old Cuban fisherman disposing of a shark-ravaged marlin.	2004-06-03
US	51729554	R17YU4GBKSSS4S	0007163061	351414171	Dreams of Iron and Steel: Seven Wonders of the Nineteenth Century, from the Building of the London Sewers to the Panama Canal	Books	3	6	6	N	N	HISTORY LITE	DREAMS OF IRON AND STEEL is a serving of History Lite.  It is the written form of a BBC television series, subtitled \\"Seven Wonders of the Nineteenth Century\\".  The subtitle is symptomatic of what is wrong with the book.  In order to come up with seven wonders, Deborah Cadbury has stretched the nineteenth centruy to 1931 when Boulder Dam was begun.  Her focus on one or two individuals who designed or constructed each of the wonders is probably dictated by the exigencies of television, rather than her adherence to the \\"great man\\" theory of history.  Cadbury has the good taste, at least, to idolize the engineers and superintendent of the US intercontinental railroad instead of the crooked financiers who backed the project, as the late Stephen Ambrose did.<br />The British wonders are more interesting to an American reader because they are not so well known here.  Cadbury's gaffs in setting the historical scene in Victorian Britain are less obvious to the reader in this country than the American ones. Example:  \\"Nothern plans to abolish slavery had prompted seven southern states to break away and form the Confederate States of America.\\"  That statement wouldn't even pass muster in a high school essay on the causes of the Civil War.<br />Cadbury writes well, if a trifle overdramatically.  That too may be traceable to the book's parentage.  She appends a large \\"Bibliography and Sources\\" section at the end for readers seeking more substantial fare.	2004-05-18
US	51729554	R2460IVTEAM8N4	0765304775	49887243	Wind Spirit: An Ella Clah Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	SHADES OF SCARPETTA	I liked this book in spite of myself.  It is a prime example of the &quot;detective-as-target&quot; school of mystery writing.  Ella Clah not only has to cope with assorted bad guys trying to kill or maim her, she must also deal with being shunned by many of the traditionalist Navajos.  Shades of Patricia Cornwell's persecuted heroine, Kate Scarpetta. <br />What redeemed the book in my eyes was that the Thurlos  successfully mix Clah's police activities with details of the traditionalist practices of her mother and brother.  The only homicide in the story is solved early. The remaining complications arise from factional conflict on the reservation. A couple of Ella's antagonists from previous books get their comeuppance.  A pretty slight plot, but an enjoyable read.	2004-04-28
US	51729554	R2RPIFPYN8U0NF	0399151435	275831919	A Death in Vienna (Silva, Daniel)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	ENJOYABLE THROWBACK	Who knew working for an agency seeking reparations for victims of the Nazi era was so dangerous?  It sounds like a job for lawyers and accountants.  Not in Daniel Silva's Vienna, where the fotress-like Wartime Claims and Inquiries office is blown up by an agent known as the Clockmaker.  Art restorer, Gabriel Allon, a former Mossad assassin, is asked by his legendary ex-boss to investigate.  The fast-paced plot takes Gabriel from Vienna, through the Austrian Alps, to Israel, Rome, Argentina, Zurich, Munich, and back again.  Along the way Silva gives his readers a short course in the mechanics of Hitler's Final Solution...<br />Silva's spy thriller, the final part of a trilogy featuring Allon, is a throwback.  While LeCarre and other practitioner's of the genre have found new evil empires with which to frighten us, Silva still mines the Nazi motherlode very effectively. It is reassuringly quaint, in 2004, to read about a CIA that can locate and compromise terrorist bank accounts in Switzerland and a Mossad that can defang its enemies bloodlessly.	2004-04-03
US	51729554	R3LCN7YZK9R89O	0399151435	275831919	A Death in Vienna (Silva, Daniel)	Books	3	2	7	N	N	A THROWBACK	Who knew working for an agency seeking reparations for victims of the Nazi era was so dangerous?  It sounds like a job for lawyers and accountants.  Not in Daniel Silva's Vienna, where the fortress-like Wartime Claims and Inquiries office is blown up by an agent known as the Clockmaker.  Art restorer Gabriel Allon, a former Mossad assassin, is asked by his legendary ex-boss to investigate.  The fast-paced plot leads Gabriel from Vienna, to the Austrian Alps, Israel, Rome, Argentina, Zurich, Munich and back again.  In the process Silva gives his readers a short course on the mechanics of Hitler's Final Solution.<br />Gabriel discovers that the mastermind is an octogenarian Sturmbannfuhrer who played a key role in the Holocaust.  He is sitting on a 2.3 billion dollar hoard of Nazi loot with which he hopes to re-establish fascist governments across Europe.<br />Silva's spy thriller, the final book of a trilogy featuring Allon, is a throwback.  While LeCarre and other practitioner's of the genre have found new evil empires with which to frighten us, Silva still mines the Nazi motherlode very effectively.  In 2004, it is reassuringly quaint to read about a CIA that can locate and compromise terrorist assets held in secret Swiss bank accounts and a Mossad that can pull off bloodless kidnappings against its murderous enemies.	2004-03-24
US	51729554	R1IHQ9KBZMQ4Y0	0312314868	561001789	God's Bestseller: William Tyndale, Thomas More, and the Writing of the English Bible---A Story of Martyrdom and Betrayal	Books	5	27	31	N	N	A WRITER FOR ALL SEASONS	GOD'S BESTSELLER recounts the remarkable life of William Tyndale, one of the founding fathers of English Protestantism and perhaps the second most influential writer in the English language.  Brian Moynahan gives the reader more than a simple biography.  He enumerates church abuses that triggered the Reformation, gives brief sketches of the \\"bible men\\" who preceded Tyndale (Wycliffe and Luther), and, for good measure, demolishes the popular image of Sir Thomas More, Tyndale's nemesis.  Moynahan can be generous with ancillary details because little is known of Tyndale's life after he fled Britain in 1524.<br />Wycliffe produced the first complete bible in English, but he and his assistants translated from the Latin Vulgate text, then in use throughout the Christian world, into an English that was nearer Chaucer than Shakespeare.  Tyndale, who studied at Oxford and Cambridge, translated the New Testament and much of the Old Testament from earlier Greek and Hebrew texts.  Eighty years later his simple, colorful language found its way , almost intact, into the King James Bible.  It was Tyndale, Moynahan says, who first wrote \\"Those great rolling phrases that boom through the English-speaking mind...\\"  The Lord's Prayer we recite is Tyndale, the Beatitudes are Tyndale, as are \\"eat, drink and be merry...\\", \\"Death where is thy sting.\\" and a hundred more.  A 1998 study found that 84% of the King James New Testament is identical to Tyndale and more than 75% of the Old Testament.  Moynahan says, \\"Where the King James strays away from him, Tyndale is often both more vivid and more plain.\\"  Example:  the King's scholars changed Tyndale's \\"...for as ye judge so shall ye be judged.\\" into \\"For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged...\\"<br />One of the many amazing things about Tyndale's accomplishment is that he did his translations while on the lam.  He was a fugitive from the heretic hunters for the last twelve years of his life, living in Hamburg, Worms, and Antwerp.Copies of Tyndale's New Testament were smuggled back into Britain, where they aroused the wrath of Sir Thomas More.  More was, according to Moynahan, the most aggressive persecutor of heretics among Henry VIII's high churchmen.  He wrote lengthy and vituperative denunciations of Tyndale and sent spies into Europe to track him.  Even after More, himself, had been consigned to the Tower, Moynahan says it was his agents and allies who captured Tyndale and saw to it he was executed.<br />So we have the \\"saintly\\" Man for All Seasons to thank, not only for giving Shakespeare his biased version of Richard III, but also for sending one of the greatest writers in the English language to the stake.	2004-03-13
US	51729554	R3OO33YOUFFDUA	0195142284	497517321	Southern Lady, Yankee Spy: The True Story of Elizabeth Van Lew, a Union Agent in the Heart of the Confederacy	Books	5	20	22	N	N	PROFILE IN COURAGE	One keeps expecting the Civil War, that great motherload for historians, finally to have been mined out.  Then a book like SOUTHERN LADY, YANKEE SPY comes along, proving that there are still riches to be discovered in that thar war.  Elizabeth Van Lew's name will not ring a bell with most Civil War buffs, but Elizabeth Varon's biography ought to remedy that.  This woman's courageous story deserves a place in our textbooks.<br />Van Lew, though a member of one of Richmond's most prominent families, was a staunch unionist who led a spy network that fed valuable intelligence to Union Generals Butler and Grant.  It is possible that Van Lew even placed a spy among the servants of Jefferson Davis' household.  After the war, Van Lew was appointed Postmaster of Richmond by then-President Grant. During her eight-year tenure, she integrated her staff and improved service.<br />Varon, who teaches history at Wellesley College, fits into the framework of Van Lew's life story a good overview of unionist sentiment in Virginia prior to the war and its ineffectual leadership during the succession crisis.  She thoroughly rebuts the &quot;Crazy Bet&quot; myth, which was Van Lew's image for much of the 20th century -- even among historians.  The book's greatest accomplishment,though, is showing Van Lew as a three-dimensional person, constantly changing and evolving in response to the world around her.	2004-02-11
US	51729554	R3EKYVIERL4ZCJ	0743250346	773909635	The Frumious Bandersnatch (Mcbain, ed)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	ALICE IN TIN PAN ALLEY	In THE FRUMIOUS BANDERSNATCH, Ed McBain weaves biting satire and police procedural into pure gold.  His prime target is the 21st century record business and some of the evils wrought by monopoly of the airwaves, but along the way he manages to skewer other media foibles. (like the panels of &quot;expert&quot; talking heads that proliferate on television) The warp of McBain's loom is the good old 87th Precinct. The detectives of the 87th duel an FBI task force to solve a high profile kidnapping. Highly recommended.	2004-02-10
US	51729554	R3M42SSN42N3LJ	0727859722	975823230	A Fair Exchange Is Robbery	Books	3	0	0	N	N	AN ODD ONE	This is an odd, dark novel that is more John Grisham thriller than conventional British whodunnit.  Gavin Penfold is an IT security expert at a large bank, living a successful and primly conventional life.  On his way home late on a Friday night, he and his new Jaguar are hijacked, changing all that.  The hijackers accidentally hit a pedestrian and leave Gavin to face the music after forcing him to consume a huge amount of whiskey.  He is eventually charged with DUI and the hit and run accident.<br />The CID officers Penfold encounters do not resemble the stereotypes we are accustomed to in British mysteries.  There is no aristocratic chief inspector who writes poetry in between murder investigations; no female detective inspector driven to prove herself by solving crimes at all costs.  There aren't even any mild-mannered (but canny) rural constables to plod after the truth.  The detectives Gavin meets are run-of-the-mill civil servants.  Some are lazy womanizers, some are misanthropic bullies, and some are dedicated, hard-working policemen. The soliciters and barristers don't resemble Grisham's heros any more than the detectives resemble their BBC counterparts.  <br />No one is murdered in this book.  The main casualites are Gavin's illusions and his innocence.  The ending is short, cynical, and unsatisfactory.	2004-02-07
US	51729554	R2Y8J8WBNVYCYS	0803215304	692034212	One Vast Winter Count: The Native American West before Lewis and Clark (History of the American West)	Books	5	44	47	N	N	VASTLY INFORMATIVE	Colin Calloway has written an impressive debut volume for the University of Nebraska Press' History of the American West series.  It weaves the latest archeological discoveries together with Native American oral history into cotemporary European accounts to produce a panoramic overview of 15,000 years of human existence is western America.  His narrative ends at the point where coventional school textbooks begin -- with Lewis and Clark.  This book has expanded my understanding by showing me that &quot;The West is not a land of empty spaces with a short history...&quot;  Calloway wants us to see western history as a &quot;long and unbroken continuum&quot; that stretches backward in a vast spiral of years and forward beyond our own lifetimes.<br />Most of us have a static view of Native American culture in the West; a 19th century snapshot with tribal characteristics and territories frozen in place.  Calloway gives the reader a motion picture full of swirling migrations and altered identitites -- the result of altered climate, technology, as well as of European intervention.  He integrates important events in native history into the timeline of world history in a way I have not previously encountered.  As the Revolutionary War raged east of the Appalachians, a great smallpox epidemic that reduced native populations by 50-75% was raging to the west.  The land Lewis and Clark explored was far emptier than it had been just a generation earlier.<br />The diffusion of corn-growing into cooler regions of North America, starting in the sixth century C.E. initiated a revolution in Native American life.  At the time the Normans invaded England, the Cahokias were building monumental earthworks and plazas amid fields of corn at the confluence of the Missouri and Mississippi.  It was probably the largest city North America had seen until New York surpassed it at the end of the 18th Century.  The Cohokias, like the Anasazi of the Southwest, had vanished before Lewis and Clark pushed west. The arrival of the horse on the plains in the 16th century coicided with climatic changes that expanded buffalo populations.  Some native groups that had adopted the agrarian life forsook their cornfields, moved out onto the plains, and morphed into nomadic warrior cultures.  The Sioux, Apaches, and Cheyenne were farmers before they were buffalo hunters.<br />Although ONE VAST WINTER COUNT is unapologetically academic, it is well written and very readable.  Without interrupting the narrative flow, Calloway identifies his sources and earmarks points of scholarly disagreement.  The book devotes less space to native cultures of the Pacific coast than to others.  Calloway's explanation is that he had to rely heavily on the record created by Europeans (who came later to that region). He says he chose to make his primary focus &quot;centers of action and interaction&quot;.  He ends the book by pointing to the depopulation of the rural West, the exhaustion of water resources, and the return of the buffalo as signs that the endless spiral of winters may be making another turn.	2004-02-04
US	51729554	R3N8YXSGGXQVB1	0060530499	675859556	Heretic (The Grail Quest, Book 3)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	IS THAT ALL THERE IS?	HERETIC is the third(and perhaps last)novel chronicling the adventures of English longbowman, Thomas of Hookton, during the early years of the Hundred Years' War.  It will be more enjoyable if one first reads ARCHER and NOMAD. The siege and capture of Calais is glimpsed briefly at the beginning, but most of the story involves the capture and defense of Castillon d'Arbizon by Thomas and some of his comrades from NOMAD.  There Thomas and his evil cousin Guy Vexille have their final confrontation.  It is the search for the Holy Grail that drives the central characters in HERETIC.<br />As usual, Cornwell gives the reader a trove of detail about the way war was waged and life was lived in the mid-14th century.  We learn about the wearing of plate armor, about special-purpose arrow points, the fortification of medieval castles, and the loading and firing of primitive cannon.  We watch a craftsman doing wax-replacement casting.  What is missing, for this reader, is Cornwell's usually brilliant evocation of landscape.  Gascony does not come alive the way Normandy and Durham did in the earlier books.<br />HERETIC also gets bogged down by too many grails, counterfeit and (perhaps) otherwise.  Cornwell explains how the grail came to a remote fortress in Gascony by quoting a legend that connects it to the heretic Cathars, but fails to trace its whereabouts during the first Christian millennium.  Nor does the &quot;true&quot; grail, once found, exhibit any special properties to verify it authenticity.  Why let it be found at all, if you aren't going to provide some supernatural fireworks a la Tolkien or Indiana Jones?  Cornwell's message seems to be that the grail's only power was its hold on men's imaginations.  When Thomas takes the predictably high-minded course, one is likely to wonder, like Peggy Lee, &quot;Is that all there is?&quot;<br />Earlier Amazon reviewers assume that HERETIC concludes the Thomas of Hookton series.  This is reasonable if you think the story of the grail was the real heart of the story.  If, however, one believes that the real subject of Cornwell's series is the apogee of the English longbow as a weapon of war then we might expect to follow Thomas at least through the Battle of Poitiers.  He certainly deserves a more rousing send-off than HERETIC.	2003-12-28
US	51729554	R3RDXQWAIV7JOZ	0765304783	283903751	Plant Them Deep (Rose Destea a Rose Novel)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	DEEP-ROOTED CONFLICTS	This is the best Thurlo book I've read.  I disagree with those who call it &quot;cozy&quot;.  It shows the intractable conflicts that cleave Navajo society today: tradition vs. science, development vs. conservation, spiritual well-being vs. material comfort.  PLANT THEM DEEP is a dramatic shift from the Thurlo's police procedurals, in which Navajo detective Ella Clah is the protagonist, or their hokey vampire series.  It is told from the perspective of Rose Destea, Ella's feisty, traditionalist mother. Ella and her brother Clifford, a hataalii, play supporting roles this time.  The story has plenty of crime and suspense, even as it focuses on the traditionalist side of Navajo culture -- its manners, herbalist lore, and healing ceremonies.<br />The Tribal Council hires Rose, a long-time &quot;plant watcher&quot; to conduct a survey of endangered native plants, especially those used by traditional herbalists, to assist them in evaluating the restoriation plans of mining and utility companies.  She immediately runs into determined opposition from a young Navajo plant biologist and other modernists, both tribal and Anglo. Rose discovers that scarce medicinal herbs are being systematically dug up all over the reservation.  Suspense builds when another plant watcher dies under mysterious circumstances and her best friend falls grieviously ill.  In short order Rose must find a rare herb to help cure her friend, solve a murder, and catch a plant thief.<br />PLANT THEM DEEP may not be full of mayhem and bloodshed, but it is full of the clash of competing values.  Rose Destea is clear on where she stands, but readers must draw their own conclusions.	2003-12-28
US	51729554	R1459U0R7LQRHD	074323751X	817983026	The Fugitive Queen (Ursula Blanchard Mystery at Queen Elizabeth I's Court)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	AN ELIZABETHAN SUCCESS	Since QUEEN OF AMBITION, the last Buckley mystery I reviewed, Ursula Blanchard has given up spying for her half-sister, Queen Elizabeth, married Hugh Stannard, and settled into a contented retirement far from court.  The queen and her chief minister, William Cecil, recall Ursula to active duty as THE FUGITIVE QUEEN opens.  The lure is the gift of a dowry estate in Yorkshire for her ward, Penelope Mason.  In return Ursula is to carry a personal message from Elizabeth to Mary of Scotland, who is imprisioned in Bolton Castle near Penelope's new property.  Cecil also wants her to ascertain the extent of Mary's involvement in the murder of her husband, Lord Darnley.  What seems at first to be a straightforward mission quickly gathers complications of kidnapping, murder, and conspiracy.  Ursula, her daughter Meg, and Penelope are all at grave risk before the story's conclusion.<br />I am once again impressed by Buckley's skill at recreating Elizabethan society -- this time in rural Yorkshire where the Roman religion still has many secret adherents.  She feeds the reader, almost unnoticed, the historical context of Mary of Scotland's fall from queenship to troublesome prisoner.  Ursula is an effective secret agent without overstepping the constraints her gender and her status would realistically have put upon her. This is historical mystery-writing of a very high order.  <BR> <BR>My only niggle with the plot is that Buckley, at two critical junctures, has groups of people who are trying to escape detection in the dead of night do so on horseback.  In the quiet of the 16th century countryside, the creak and jingle of horsemen would cary quite a distance and alert watchers would feel the vibration hooves striking firm ground even further.  One would travel on foot if escaping notice was of primary importance.	2003-12-27
US	51729554	RZVTH4I2HLRP4	0312266782	488167634	Medusa: A Pacific Northwest Mystery	Books	3	1	2	N	N	OVERKILL	If all six of Skye Moody's Pacific Northwest Mysteries are as bloody as MEDUSA, it's a wonder that her fictional Seattle isn't depopulated by now.  I hesitate to estimate the exact body count because the deaths come steadily and numerously as Seattle raindrops.  The attrition on law enforcement types alone is staggering, not to mention the mortality rate among bad guys, children, and innocent bystanders.<br />Robert Ludlum has met his match in Ms Moody who mixes enough criminal conspiracies in with the bloodshed to fill several normal thrillers.  Smuggling, child abuse, pornography, protection racketeering, industrial espionage,and toxic  pollution are all crammed together with countless murders into a single hyperactive plot.  The heroine, Venus Diamond, behaves like a cowboy vigilante, conducting illegal entries, thefts, and wiretaps.<br />Moody writes good, edgy dialogue and makes effective use of Seattle and Puget Sound as a backdrop for her story.  Her female characters - both good and bad - are complex and interesting, but her men tend to be cartoonishly black or white.  My objection to her plotting is its literal overkill.	2003-11-06
US	51729554	R2LWSLVEAI0HAA	0897335163	803043411	Death at Hallows End: A Carolus Deene Mystery (Carolus Deene Mysteries)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	CLASSIC DETECTION	Although this book was just published for the first time here in the US, it was written in 1965.  Its style and its hero, Carolus Deene, hark back to an even earlier time -- when gentleman sleuths like Sherlock Holmes, Lord Peter Wimsey, and Doctor Gideon Fell solved mysteries for the sheer intellectual challenge they posed.  Deene, independently wealthy, teaches history at Queen's School in the city of &quot;Newminster&quot; to quiet his conscience and gets involved in murder investigations for recreation.<br />A solicitor he knows slightly vanishes while on a business trip to the remote village of Hallows End. He'd gone there to deliver a will to an important client for signing.  By odd coincidence, the client, who was visiting relatives, apparently dies of a heart attack on the same night his lawyer disappears.  Carolus is asked to find out what has become of the missing solicitor.<br />Leo Bruce, a pen name of the late Rupert Croft-Cooke, scatters suspects, false scents, and mysterious events before the reader with gleeful abandon.  Some of the characters are straight from central casting, like the pompous headmaster of Queen's School and Deene's housekkeper who cooks &quot;chocolate suffle&quot; and &quot;patty mason&quot; for his supper, but the suspects are a diverse and eccentric lot who defy easy stereotyping.  The book is a good read for those who enjoy a classic mystery of deduction.  Few readers are likely to come up with the full solution before Deene explains all in the final pages.	2003-11-05
US	51729554	R1517B5HTQLPDR	0727859706	2094936	All Roads Leadeth	Books	4	2	2	N	N	AN ENJOYABLE TRIP TO YORK	ALL ROADS LEADETH is a well-written police procedural with an interesting plot involving interlocking crimes.  DCI Hennessey and Sergeant Yellich of the York CID are called to examine a twenty-year-old skeleton found in a pile of rubble beside a country house undergoing renovation.  This leads them into an investigation of other unsolved disappearances that in turn  lead to a London villain who has a macabre way of punishing informers.<br />Peter Turnbull keeps the reader engrossed without resort to wholesale slaughter or reckless behavior by his sleuths.  Instead he offers realistic characterization and solid police work mixed with fascinating tidbits about the old city of York. One learns about the lives of Hennessey and Yellich beyond their work. Turnbull even saves one small surprise for the very end.	2003-11-01
US	51729554	RW8HQ05CJTLTF	0312317441	330770860	Dead Soul (Charlie Moon Mysteries)	Books	1	6	18	N	N	DROSS FROM DOSS	Charlie Moon, the sleuth in DEAD SOUL, is not the second coming of Joe Leaphorn and despite what the Denver Post may say, the book does not \\"do for the Utes what Hillerman has done for the Navajo\\".  Moon is more nearly the second coming of Batman -- a Ute lawman-turned-rancher who changes into a superhero when evildoers are abroad.  He is hired by the Ute tribal chairman to investigate the murder of a Colorado senator's Ute driver.  Moon's ranch, morbidly named the Columbine, abuts the Senator's ranch.  Apart from hanging out with his aunt Daisy (a Ute shaman), Charlie spends all his time consorting with white people of both sexes.  Before he tracks down the killer, buildings explode, bodies litter the landscape, and conspiracies hatch like prairie chickens.  A Catholic healing ceremony helps Moon turn back into a happy rancher at the end.<br />If this review sounds flip, it is because it is hard to take a book set in the southwest seriously that doesn't know the difference between a mountain lion and a bobcat.  A mountain lion named \\"two-toes\\" figures prominently in the story.  Yet the jacket flap calls this dangerous creature, which may be killing cattle and stalking Moon's ranch hands a \\"bobcat\\".  (a bobcat is a 15-25 lb predator that lives on rodents and birds)  The cat silhouetted on the jacket might be a bobcat, or even an arctic lynx, but it is certainly not a long-tailed mountain lion.<br />Maybe the people who created the book's jacket didn't bother to read its contents.  I recommend that you follow their example.	2003-10-29
US	51729554	R3KW2NGYBQB6UJ	1585746525	54530338	Hoagland on Nature: Essays	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	THE FRUIT OF A LIFETIME WELL SPENT	Although HOAGLAND ON NATURE has a magisteral ring to it -- like an arcane treatise on the law -- it is, in fact, a collection of graceful personal essays written over a span of four decades by the man John Updike calls &quot;the best essayist of my generation&quot;.  Joyce Carol Oates has included Hoagland's &quot;Heaven and Nature&quot; in her collection of the 55 best essays of the 20th century.  It is a sad commentary on American reading habits that this wonderful book languishes, unreviewed until now, in 1.2 millionth place on the Amazon popularity chart, while readers throng to read and review books about vampires, crooked lawyers, and pre-pubescent wizards.  The unnatural novel triumphs over essays about nature.<br />The &quot;nature&quot; explored and described in these essays is neither cute and disneyesque, nor is it merely the pristine wilderness of the grizzly and the caribou.  Hoagland's nature is messier, more frightening, more antic, and altogether more fascinating than that.  He has roamed all seven continents, employing a discerning eye and stylish pen to capture for his readers the minute, the majestic, and the human he encounters along the way. Titles like &quot;The Courage of Turtles&quot;, &quot;O Wyoming&quot;, &quot;Wowlas and Coral&quot;, and &quot;Up the Black to Chalkyitsik&quot; only hint at the breadth of his experience and interests.<br />Hoagland's companions of choice are &quot;bedroll scientists&quot;, government trappers, and people who live in remote wild places all year round.  He admires woodsmen but not outdoorsmen, and has little use for armchair scientists (busy &quot;shining their epaulets&quot;) or amateur conservationists (obsessing on &quot;showy predators and hearty herd beasts&quot;). He is a spiritual heir of Henry David Thoreau, holding the Transcendentalist view that man is part of nature, rather than standing apart from it.  Hoagland writes about the garter snakes that live under his cabin in northern Vermont and aboutthe seasonal changes in the woods nearby. He describes the struggle of native Alaskans and the Todas of the Madras highlands in trying to adapt to a changing world.  He chronicles the tragi-comic history of the inept red wolf of east Texas.  The collection ends with several short appreciations of other nature writers:  Gilbert White of the 18th century, Thoreau and John Muir of the 19th century, and Edward Abbey of the 20th century.<br />One of the pleasures of reading this book is Hoagland's supple use of language.  He can, by turn, be pithy and epigrammatic: &quot;Geography has glamour in America.&quot; and &quot;Henry Thoreau lived to write, but Muir lived to hike.&quot;; or poetic: [about a pond] &quot;Amber or pewter-colored, it's a drinking fountain for scurrying raccoons and mincing deer, a waterbugs' and minnows' arena for hunting insect larvae, a holding pen for rain that may coalesce into ocean waves next year.&quot;; or apocalyptic:  &quot;No permission is given in Isaiah, Job, or Genesis for the holcaust mankind has visited upon the natural world, whereby the rhinoceros may soon be as scarce as the unicorn. No stretch of grief or the imagination, no precedent in science or logic can get a handle on this catastrophe -- half of creation extinguished in a single life span.&quot;<br />What Hoagland on Nature never is is dull!	2003-10-28
US	51729554	RVSE5UO5O4U8X	0727858963	487279872	Smile Now, Die Later	Books	1	2	2	N	N	A WEAK SMILE	This book is more romance than mystery.  Its central character, Zoe Templeman, is a textile restorer who does freelance work for antique dealers in London.  Her lover is a successful cosmetic surgeon with a flat in Belgravia and a large country place.  His stitching is more lucrative than hers.  The story begins with Zoe finding an important client hanged in his own studio.  In trying to shield his housekeeper, a beautiful Pakistani prostitute, and her asthmatic son from police attention, she complicates her own life.  In the process Zoe discovers that her lover has secrets of his own.  After this promising start the story goes tepid.  Armstrong telegraphs the solutions to her dual mysteries long before her heroine figures them out.<br />Armstrong writes crisp, sometimes witty dialogue, but her storytelling is eccentric.  At times she switchs from Zoe's perspective to that of other characters for no apparent reason.  Much of the plot's action takes place offstage while Zoe is introspecting about her love life and business problems.  The reader learns nothing about textile restoration, the antique business, or cosmetic surgery because we see almost nothing of Zoe or her surgeon at work.  The story ends with love triumphant, but with precious little resolution.	2003-09-22
US	51729554	R1EU2IGHURJRU	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	4	37	42	N	N	BY THEIR ACTS YOU SHALL KNOW THEM	Two books have recently been published about cold blooded murder in Utah and figuring prominently in both is the LDS church -- the Mormons.  The more publicized is Jon Krakauer's UNDER THE BANNER OF HEAVEN.  It is about recent (1984) murders and the kidnapping of Elizabeth Smart committed by individual members of Mormon Fundamentalist sects that exist in southern Utah,Arizona and elsewhere. Krakauer says they may number 100,000. They have been excommunicated by LDS authorities for polygamy and other deviation, but claim to be following the original teachings of church founder Joseph Smith.  Sally Denton writes in AMERICAN MASSACRE about the near annihilation of the Fancher-Baker wagon train at Mountain Meadows in southern Utah on 9/11/1857.  That barbarous act, the slaughter of 120 defenseless men, women and children, according to Denton, may have been authorized by church leaders and was certainly carried out by Mormons who believed they had official sanction for their acts.<br />The two authors exhibit contrasting strengths as writers.  Krakauer is the better prose stylist, but Denton has put together a more cohesive book.  Krakauer succeeded in getting members of the Fundamentalist Mormon community (including the muderous Laffertys)to talk freely.  He gives the reader an intimate, unspairing view of the crime and the criminals -- as Mailer did in THE EXECUTIONER'S SONG.  The story of Smart's kidnapping gives the book a torn-from-the-headlines timliness.  Krakauer uses the two contemporary incidents as a springboard to examine the LDS church's historical record of violence. He admits readily in interviews that he relied heavily on secondary sources (like historian D Michael Quinn) for his depiction of the historical aspects of Mormonism.  Denton has done far more original historical research for her book:  from reading diaries and oral histories in Arkansas (where the Fancher expedition originated) to combing through the National Archives, US Army records, and those of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.  She reconstructs the trial of John D Lee, the only man convicted of the atrocity, from court records, his diaries, and contemporary newspaper accounts.  Denton provide chapter notes and an extensive bibliography to support her scholarship.<br />I recommend reading both books.  At a time when Islamic religious extremism is on everyone's mind, we need to be reminded that the United States has produced and is producing its share of dangerous zealots.  Krakauer refers to the Fundamentalist polygamists of southern Utah as &quot;the American Taliban&quot;.  In AMERICAN MASSACRE one can find the roots of the religious fanaticism that bears bitter fruit in UNDER THE BANNER OF HEAVEN.	2003-08-06
US	51729554	R3VL9ZZX8VHA00	0375412085	454440373	American Massacre: The Tragedy at Mountain Meadows, September 1857	Books	4	61	81	N	N	BITTER FRUIT	Two books have recently been published about cold-blooded murders in Utah, and figuring prominently in both is the LDS church -- the Mormons.  Jon Krakauer's UNDER THE BANNER OF HEAVEN is about recent murders and the kidnapping of Elizabeth Smart committed by Mormon Fundamentalists who, though excommunicated by LDS authorities for practicing polygamy and other deviation, claim to be following the original teachings of church founder Joseph Smith.  Sally Denton's subject in AMERICAN MASSACRE is the near-annihilation of the Fancher-Baker wagon train at Mountain Meadows in southern Utah on 9/11/1857.  That barbarous act, the slaughter of 120 men, women, and children may have been authorized by church leaders was was certainly carried out by Mormons who believed they had official sanction for their acts.<br />The two authors display contrasting strengths as writers.  Krakauer is the better prose stylist, but Denton has put together a more unified story.  Krakauer succeeded in getting members of the Fundamentalist Mormon community (including the murderous Laffertys) to talk freely about the murders they say God told them to commit.  He gives the reader an unspairing, intimate view of the crime and the criminals, like that of Mailer in THE EXECUTIONER'S SONG.  Krakauer admits readily in interviews that he relied heavily on secondary sources (like historian D Michael Quinn)for his depiction of the historical aspects of Mormonism.  Denton has done far more original historical research for her book; from reading diaries and oral histories in Arkansas (where the Fancher party originated) to combing through the National Archives, US Army records, and those of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.  She reconstructs the trial of John D Lee, the only person convicted of the atrocity, from court records, his diaries, and contemporary newspaper accounts.  Denton provides chapter notes and an extensive bibliography to support her scholarship.<br />Denton resurrects a number of little-knownnon-Mormons who figured prominently in Utah Territory at the time of the massacre and after. Like Thomas L Kane, scion of a politically prominent Philadelphia family, who acted as Brigham Young's intermediary and apologist to three US Presidents.  Like Territorial Judge John Cradlebaugh, who initiated the first investigation into the Mountain Meadows massacre.  A more famous nemisis of Brigham Young was General Albert Sidney Johnston, who led US troops in the &quot;Utah War&quot; of 1858 and assisted Cradelbaugh in his investigation. He would die five year later at Shiloh fighting for the Confederacy.<br />I recommend both books.  At a time when Islamic religious extremism is on everyone's mind, we need to be reminded that the United States has produced and is producing its share of dangerous zealots.  Krakauer refers to the Fundamentalist polygamists of southern Utah as &quot;the American Taliban&quot;.  In AMERICAN MASSACRE one can trace the roots of the religious fanaticism that bears bitter fruit in UNDER THE BANNER OF HEAVEN.	2003-08-06
US	51729554	R1W6NPLBIZ60KF	0060394390	399841946	Land of the Blind: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	CLEAR - EYED	Jess Walter's second novel, LAND OF THE BLIND, transcends the form and formulae of the police procedural mystery.  The central character who has confessed to a homicide says, \\"There aren't even names for some of the crimes we commit\\".  While ostensibly about murder, it is those unnamed crimes which most interest Walter and, through him, the reader.  LAND OF THE BLIND reminds me of John Irving's SAVING PIGGY SNEED.<br />Caroline Mabry is a police detective in Spokane Washington who has been relegated to swing shift because she is burned out.  Patrol officers bring in an apparent derelict caught breaking into the long-vacant Davenport Hotel who has told them he committed a murder.  The one-eyed \\"loon\\" refuses to give either his name or the name of his victim, but says he will write out a confession for Caroline.  Ensconced in an interview room, he starts filling page after page of a legal pad.  We read segments of this confession (which begins in fifth grade) as it is written.  Caroline has agreed to wait until it is finished, but cajoles from the confessee the name of one of the people who figure in the confession.  Armed with that, she starts to unravel the story backwards from the present as the confession gradually unveils the past.  Despite its static form, Walter keeps the story's suspense building right to the final page.<br />He does a marevlous job of showing the cruelties of childhood and adolescence played out in the poor Empire Road district, which is \\"pinched like an ant farm\\" against the Spokane River.  The social landscape of Spokane and the cultural divide between it and Seattle are thoroughly explored.  Even though a central character says \\"Spokane is Kmart and Seattle is Nordstrom\\", Walter's heart clearly belongs to Spokane.  He jibes contemporary Seattle with, \\"We turned every gas station into a coffee shop, and by the time I left Seattle you could get four hundred flavors of coffee, but you couldn't find a decent gallon of gas\\".  <br />In LAND OF THE BLIND the one-eyed man leads us over moral terrain where sins of commission and omission perpetrated by Jess Walter's characters may remind us uncomfortably of our own.	2003-07-03
US	51729554	R65AGSELYMPB8	055310344X	61356254	Einstein in Berlin	Books	4	26	30	N	N	GENIUS AT WORK	I'm glad I read Thomas Levenson's EINSTEIN IN BERLIN in spite of its atrocious publisher's blurb:  \\"In a book that is both biography and the most exciting form of history, here are eighteen years in the life of a man, Albert Einstein, and a city, Berlin, that were in many way the defining years of the twentieth century.\\"  What \\"the most exiting form of history\\" may be is never explained.  Fortunately, the book is better written than its jacket.  Levenson, a documentary filmmaker who produced a two-hour biography of Einstein for Nova, can paint memorable pictures with words too.  In general, he does better by Einstein than he does by Berlin.  <br />Levenson strikes a good balance between the details of Einstein's private life, his scientific work, and his political activities.  The book's greatest strength is its rendering of Einstein's contributions to theoretical physics into a form digestible even by a scientific illiterate.  Levenson shows the process as well as the final result; the failures as well as the triumphs.  He explains the ongoing debate between Einstein and Niels Bohr over arcane aspects of quantum mechanics.  I was intrigued by the \\"mind experiments\\" Einstein used to test his theories and those of other phyicists.  The chapters summarizing Einstein's life before and after Berlin give the reader sufficient context for understanding his \\"defining\\" years.  Some aspects of his personal life get short shrift: his activity as an amateur musician, for example.  We learn that his friendship with Queen Elizabeth of Belgium began when they played chamber music together, but we never are given a glimpse of him playing, nor any sense of the time he devoted to this pastime.<br />Levenson is more impressionistic in his portrayal of Berlin.  It is not so much Einstein's Berlin we are shown as that of his friend Count Harry Kessler, a liberal bon vivant whose Diary of a Cosmopolitan is quoted extensively.  The reader learns almost nothing about the university that employed Einstein for eighteen years beyond the small circle of scientists with whom he associated.  Levenson describes the nightlife and popular culture of Berlin at length, but shows little of its high culture.  Much space is devoted to Josephine Baker and Fritz Lang, but Schonberg, Schnabel, Kadinsky and Lotte Leyna are mentioned only when they became refugees.  Levenson is thorough in detailing political and economic events in Berlin and elsewhere in Germany, but provides little insight into the daily life of ordinary Berliners.<br />Levenson gives the reader more of WWI and Adolf Hitler's part in it than seems necessary for this book.  Details of the major battles and of Corporal Hitler's medals are unnecessary to an understanding of Einstein's opposition to the war or of Berlin's experience during the war.  It was Hitler the politician, not Hitler the soldier, who impacted Berlin and Einstein so profoundly in later years.	2003-06-21
US	51729554	R131HF4XRHVAUE	0670032026	989972388	Europe in the High Middle Ages: Penguin History of Europe (Penguin History of Europe)	Books	3	114	140	N	N	NEITHER FISH NOR FOWL	William Chester Jordan is one of America's most prominent medieval historians.  He heads the program in Medieval Studies at Princeton.  His previous book, THE GREAT FAMINE, won the Haskins Medal in 2000.  He has edited a multi-volume medieval history, written a medieval history for young people, as well as influential articles about France's expulsion of the Jews and about credit and women in medieval society.  Jordan is a frequent speaker at symposia and conferences both in the United States and Europe.  Small wonder that David Cannadine tapped him to contribute a book to Penguin's History of Europe series.  Given his credentials, EUROPE IN THE HIGH MIDDLE AGES ought to be better than it is.<br />The organization and writing is workmanlike.  Jordan's schema divides the period first by century and then by region.  This inevitably leads to repetition when the same event impacts dfferent regions and when Jordan backtracks or foreshadows events from other centuries in order to establish context.  It is impossible to create a smooth narrative in such a rigid framework.  The organization lends itself to spot referencing rather than reading cover to cover.  Jordan may not be a prose stylist, but his writing is clear and concise.<br />There are no footnotes nor endnotes. The \\"References\\" section is a scant four pages long and is made up mostly of secondary sources.  Jordan makes an occasional historiological feint, but without any real substance.  One is left feeling the book is neither fish (a serious academic history) nor fowl (a popular history for the general public).<br />The most glaring defect in the book, for this reader, is its treatment, or rather non-treatment, of Muslim rule in Iberia and Sicily.  Jordan finds time to tell us the sad story of Isaac, a Christian hermit, who persisted in reviling Muhammad in the streets of Cordoba in 852 and was executed after being warned to desist.  Yet there is no mention of the Ummayad dynasty that had unified the Iberian peninsula into the Caliphate of Al Anadluz, whose officials put Isaac to death!  At the beginning of the 11th Century Al Andaluz may have been the richest, was probably the most tolerant, and was certainly the most cultured region of Europe.  Jordan devotes far more space to the \\"Reconquest\\" than he does to the Arabic culture and language that dominated the peninsula throughout the period covered in his book.  The library at Cordoba contained 400,000 books and manuscripts at a time when the largest libary in Europe north of the Pyrenees had less than 500.  Jordan begins his chapter, \\"The World of Learning\\" by connecting the start of \\"...a long period of renewal and creativity in Europe\\" to the First Crusade.  In fact, the translations of classic Greek works of philosphy and science he says fueled the development of the schools of Paris and other universities came from Arabic texts translated by Muslims and Jews in Toledo at the behest of Abbot Hugh of Cluny.  More than a page in the chapter on vernacular literature is devoted to the Song of Roland without noting that the chanson commemorates the retreat of Charlemagne before the armies of the first Ummayad Caliph Abd al Rahman.  Jordan writes of the freebooter El Cid and \\"...his struggles with the Muslims\\", failing to mention that El Cid fought for Muslim rulers as well against them.  In the extensive genealogical tables at the end of the book one finds lists of every Christian dynasty from Byzantium to Norway, but no mention of any Muslim dynasty.  The first \\"King\\" of Portugal listed is Afonso I who ruled midway through the period with which the book is concerned.  No earlier Muslim ruler is listed.  The same thing is true of the rulers of Spain, Sicily, Tripoli, Antioch, and Jerusalem.  Christian rulers of the period are listed, but nary a Muslim monarch.  Jordan seems to have gone out of his way to render Muslim participation in and contribution to Europe's high middle ages invisible.	2003-06-21
US	51729554	R2CODFWBLZ05B7	0679642811	448968193	The Crisis of Islam: Holy War and Unholy Terror	Books	2	46	113	N	N	A CRISIS OF COMMAS	Slipshod writing is often a symptom of shoddy thinking.  Several reviewers with distinguished academic credentials have savaged the thought content of THE CRISIS OF ISLAM.  The slapdash form of the book leads me to believe they are right.<br />The introduction reads as if it had been directly transcribed from a tape -- without revision by either author or editor.  It contains a plethora of long sentences, each containing multiple clauses hooked together by a dizzying array of punctuation. Page XX has one about the naming of Middle-Eastern countries that contains 75 words, 1 colon, 1 semicolon, three dashes, and 5 commas!  There are even longer sentences on the pages that follow. <br />The body of the book is somewhat better, having passed through the editorial machinery of the NEW YORKER.  Numerous compound and run-on sentences, however, have survived.  See, for example, page 4 where Lewis strings 54 words together with 3 dashes and four commas or page 87, where two different ideas are cobbled together in 55 words, a semicolon and 3 commas.  In a single sentence on page 104 one must struggle through a \\"there\\", two \\"their\\"s, and two \\"them\\"s in search of meaning.  As another reviewer has pointed out, Lewis uses \\"Arab\\" and \\"Muslim\\" interchangeably, even though not all Arabs are Muslim and not all Muslims are Arab.<br />Lewis whinges in his introduction that Muslims are \\"keenly aware\\" of history while \\"the general level of historical knowledge in American society is abysmally low\\".  He quickly converts that apparent compliment into a criticism:  that present-day Muslim demagogues, like Bin Laden and Saddam, have used their followers' historical awareness to manipulate them.  In his chapter \\"Discovering America\\", Lewis is guilty of the same thing.  In attempting to explain \\"why they hate us\\" he offers historical analysis i.e. \\"it's the Nazi's fault\\" almost as warped as any of Saddam's.  He traces the origins of Muslim anti-Americanism to \\"certain intellectual influencescoming from Europe\\" -- spcifically German writers like Rilke, Spengler, and Heidegger.  He says in the 1930's German education philosophy \\"enjoyed a considerable vogue\\".  So Lewis wants us to believe that the Arab street became anti-American from reading German philosophy and embracing the kindergartern movement?  The Nazis, according to Lewis, continued the process of spreading \\"German ideologies\\" during WWII -- especially in Syria, Lebanon, and Iraq.  He offers no proof that those \\"ideologies\\" motivated Muslim anti-Americanism even there.  The fascist Falangists in Lebanon were Arab Christians, not Arab Muslims.  The Muslim countries which have spawned the most anti-American terrorists -- Iran, Saudi Arabia, and Yemen -- were not in the German orbit, and Trukey, which was, is staunchly pro-American.<br />Talk about using historical hot-buttons to manipulate your audience!	2003-06-10
US	51729554	REW1PGKAPHVIQ	1590710088	892262369	All the Beautiful Sinners	Books	4	4	7	N	N	GREAT WRITING -- BUT A GLUT OF BLUT	Stephen Graham Jones is an extremely talented writer.  He throws off vivid phrases and unforgettable scenes like sparks from a fireworks pinwheel.  In ALL THE BEAUTIFUL SINNERS he has devised an entirely original motive and modus operandi for the \\"Tinman\\", a serial kidnapper and killer who strikes in the wake of midwestern tornados.  Having said that, I must confess that I disliked this book intensely.<br />First, there is the body count, which approaches the carnage of a Tom Clancy war novel.  Two Sheriffs, a dozen FBI agents, numerous firemen, two psychiatrists, countless civilians, and dogs, cats, and horses. And that doesn't include all the victims of the twisters!  One expects death in mysteries and suspense novels, but Jones seems to be striving for some kind of macabre record for gore.<br />Second, the arch-villain is far too superhuman for my taste -- an all-knowing Hannibal Lechter with wings.  The Tinman flits between Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, Connecticut, and Tornado Alley as if born by flocks of flying blue monkeys.  Jones offers us no explanation for where his killer acquired all the skills he displays nor the wealth needed to support his farflung operations.  <br />Third, the unlikely plot contrivances were too much for this reader to swallow.  Example: the only explanation offered for how the killer manages to be johnny-on-the-spot for every tornado is that he was raised by Mennonites.  The series of events that end the book are nightmarishly unconvincing.  Yet in those same pages Jones gives us the striking simile of National Guard helicopters landing at a tornado site \\"...like Valkyrie, to ferry off the dead.\\"<br />Let's hope that Jones next book displays his gifts as a fiction-writer -- minus the glut of blut.	2003-05-26
US	51729554	R259V0K089LWZ8	0312290330	646192268	Coffin Knows the Answer	Books	1	4	6	N	N	AN EMPTY COFFIN	If one is to believe her blurbs Gwendoline Butler has written good mystery stories.  COFFIN KNOWS THE ANSWER is not one of them.  Even #1 appears to realize this, departing from her standard five-star rating.  Sleuth Coffin is a crashing bore.<br />To call this a police procedural is a joke.  CC Coffin tells DCI Phoebe Astley to take charge of an important case and then gives her his Pekinese to walk. A rumor wafting mysteriously around police headquarters in the early pages alerts the reader where to look for the villain -- but not the cops.  We are shown the detective team assigned to the case mostly sitting aimlessly in meetings devoting most of their time to talking about the boss and his wife. Chief Commander Coffin and DCI Phoebe are the only police officers the reader sees doing legwork. And in the end it would appear to be chance encounter rather than good police work or detection that brings the murderer down.<br />The story is a showcase of bad trends in current mystery fiction:<BR>1.  Making the sleuth and his/her loved ones the prime target of the criminal.<BR>2.  Piling up corpses like cordwood.<BR>3.  Providing only flimsy or preposterous motivation for a horrendous series of crimes.	2003-05-21
US	51729554	R3VVGLWMNQC747	0553801910	819110476	Keeping Watch	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A REMARKABLE ACHIEVEMENT	KEEPING WATCH is a remarkable achievement.  Laurie King intertwines a first-rate story of war in Vietnam with a contemporary suspense story about rescuing a twelve-year old from his abusive father.  Both stories gain harmonic richness from their conjunction.  This reader was utterly enmeshed in the complexity of thier gradual unfolding.<br />Allen Carmichael returns from Vietnam haunted by terrible memories and nightmares.  After seven years of wandering in a wilerness of alcohol, memory gaps, and petty crime he rurns home to Washinton's San Juan Islands to begin reconstructing himself.  He spends the next two decades rescuing abused women and children for an underground network run by a woman named Alice.  He has finally decided to retire and marry his lover, Rae Newborn (central figure of King's last novel FOLLY), but Alice persuades him to take one last case.  It turns out to be the most challenging in his career, threatening the network and the lives of Allen and Jamie -- the boy he is trying to save.<br />King has never written a book with a male protagonist before.  The most vivd sections of the book are Carmichael's flashbacks of Vietnam.  King credits \\"the stories\\" of Vietnam vets in helping her accomplish this feat. It is a measure of King's skill that those scenes have the flavor of first-hand observation. The suspense story has enough twists and turns to satisfy the most jaded mystery reader.  <BR>Highly recommended.	2003-05-18
US	51729554	R3CC5225ZYQUTR	0312301138	958457519	Evan Only Knows: A Constable Evans Mystery	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Mild Well-Told Mystery	An entertaining mystery set in Wales, as gently witty as its title.  Constable Evan Evans returns to Swansea on holiday in order to introduce his finacee, Bronwen, to his widowed mother. He finds that the ex-con who murdered his policeman father five years earlier has been arrested for the rape-murder of the daughter of a prominent local factory owner.  Evans arranges to interview the accused, Tony Mancini, in jail and becomes convinced that he is innocent of the girl's death.  Evan feels (unlikely as that may seem)duty-bound to pursue the real killer and exonerate Mancini.<br />The average reader may have identified the murderer and motive long before Constable Evans does, but Rhy Bowne keeps us entertained by humorous subplots:  his mother's prickly personality, Bronwen's snobbish parents, an ex-girlfriend, and a refugee lamb.  There is little violence, but enough suspense to keep the pages turning.	2003-05-17
US	51729554	R3SVXVFPARRMBZ	006019443X	496102452	The Sinister Pig	Books	4	4	5	N	N	HEAVY ON SUSPENSE -- LIGHT ON MYSTERY	Legendary lieutenant Joe Leaphorn and his protege, sergeant Jim Chee, have come a long way in the sixteen Hillerman books in which they have figured.  The early books were traditional police procedurals set in the unique environment and society of the Navajo Reservation.  The crimes that led to murder were relatively small in magnitude: stealing Indian artifacts, robbing a casino, or revenge.  In recent Hillerman books, the crimes have grown in scope to encompass serial killing, international drug smuggling, and theft of billions of dollars worth of natural gas.  Bigger is not necessarily better.  The Sinister Pig seems closer to Ludlum that to early Hillerman.<br />A CIA expert on middle eastern oil pipeline technology is murdered while on a freelance investigation for a US Senator in the Four Corners area.  Both Chee and the local FBI agent are quickly frozen out of the investigation by FBI headquarters.  Chee continues to probe for information with help from the retired Leaphorn, \\"Cowboy\\" Dashee (now a BLM law enforcement officer), and Bernie Manuelito who has joined the US Customs Border Patrol.<br />As in Wailing Wind, Bernie is the pivotal character in the story.  Through her eyes Hillerman shows the reader how the US Government goes about trying to interdict illegal immigration and drug trafficking on the border with Mexico.  It is not pretty.  Chee is as inept as ever in dealing with his romantic interest in Bernie.  While there were genuine obstacles to overcome in Chee's earlier love affairs, his inability to make his true feelings known to Ms Manuelito seems merely callow.<br />We know who the villain of the piece is almost from the outset.  He not only has the CIA agent killed, but arranges to have a young congrssional aide he has impregnated vanish.  Lacking the whodunit element, the reader has only suspense to fuel his interest.<br />Hillerman's descriptive skill is as sharp as ever and his ear for dialogue as true.  Leaphorn is still Leaphorn.  Shouldwe ask for anything more?	2003-05-10
US	51729554	R13YQ7B52T49DR	1578050715	982096030	Downhill Slide: Why the Corporate Ski Industry Is Bad for Skiing, Ski Towns, and the Environment	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Disneylands in the mountains	This book should be required reading for people, skiers and non-skiers alike, who patronize ski resorts.  DOWNHILL SLIDE exposes what really drives the continuing expansion of ski resorts -- and it isn't skiing.  Clifford focuses on the \\"Big Three\\", the publically-traded corporations that control a large chunk of all the resorts in North America.<br />Although actual ski-run usage (including ski boarders) has been flat for a decade, resorts continue to bombard the US Forest Service with requests for more public land to build ski runs on. Why would they need more runs if the number of skiers is static?  To build more condos and \\"ski villages\\" around.  Clifford says that these companies are theme park/real estate developers masquerading as sports facilities.<br />The resorts are marketed as year-round recreation sites in order to keep the condos full of consumers for the retail establishments in the artifical \\"villages\\".  The chapter entitled \\"Potemkin Villages and Emerald Cities\\" ought to bring a blush to the faces of those who sneer at Disneyland, but gush over the quaint shops and interesting restaurants at places like Breckenridge, Copper Mountain, or Whistler.<br />Why should we care that big corporations are peddling phoney \\"life experiences\\" in the heart of our public lands?  Because Clifford says these bogus communities that are springing up in the most scenic parts of our national forests are environmental disaster sites.  The thin mountain air is ill-equipped to cope with large new sources of pollution.  Access roads and boundary fences interfere with wildlife.  Clifford describes starving elk herds kept from their grazing areas by the fences around ranchettes put up by clebrities attracted to the Aspen lifestyle.  Snowmaking equipment gobbles up enourmous quantities of energy and water.  There are now sixteen golf courses in the arid Vail valley (those summer visitors must have recreation).  In order to keep them green Vail Corporation appropriated the water rights of an indigenous town, Minturn.  The large staff necessary to provide the amenities at the rustic magic kingdoms must commute from affordable housing in places like Minturn, often 50 or more miles away.<br />I quit downhill skiing in the early 70's, but since then have been a non-skiing customer at many of the resorts mentioned by Clifford -- Stratton, Stowe, Vail, Aspen, Sun Valley, Teton Village, Deer Park, and Snowbird.  Never again.  Skiers may be able to square their love of the sport with galloping environmental degradation, but non-skiers don't need to be party to it.	2003-05-06
US	51729554	R24MCZVI1E6VBK	0060530464	695590648	Sharpe's Havoc: Richard Sharpe & the Campaign in Northern Portugal, Spring 1809 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #7)	Books	3	5	14	N	N	NOT SO SHARP	Sharpe's Havoc is the eighteenth volume of Richard Sharpe's saga, but its time frame is early in Britain's Peninsular War against Napoleon, filling the gap between Sharpe's Rifles and Sharpe's Eagle.  Despite large helpings of rape, pllage, and bloodshed, this reader did not find it very satisfying.  Perhaps I've grown weary of the Supersoldier or perhaps Bernard Cornwell has.  <br />This book tells the long-time follower of Sharpe little new about life in the Brtish army during the Napoleionic Wars, because Sharpe is on detached duty behind enemy lines in Portugal.  For most of the story Sharpe and a handful of his riflemen hang out at the country estate of an English Port shipper. (Incidentally, if #1's critical discernment matches her knowledge of Port wine, readers should seek another guide) As in the recently published Sharpe's Trafalgar, our hero seems more witness to history than participant.  Cornwell gives Sharpe plenty of derring to do, but it has a perfunctory air about it.  His obligatory contribution to General Arthur Wellsley's rise to dukehood consists of finding transport across the Douro River, a service performed in reality by a Portugese barber.<br />The villain of the story, Lt Colonel Christopher of the British Foreign Office, is a more fully-developed character than those that have afflicted Sharpe in previous books.  He is a charming rapist and traitor who directs French troops to massacre Portugese civilians to further his scheme for self-advancement.  His worst crime, however, in the eyes of his colleague, the equally bloody-handed Lord Pumphrey, is that he's a thruster.  \\"A thruster was a man who would bully and whip his way to the head of the field while riding to hounds...\\".<br />Neither Sharpe nor Christopher is as interesting as one of the historical figures Cormwell weaves into the story, Major Dulong of the French 31st Leger.  Perhaps that explains what is wrong with Sharpe's Havoc.	2003-04-30
US	51729554	R1VZWGAZRPDMSC	0151008353	76080055	The Blind Man of Seville	Books	5	9	10	N	N	NONE SO BLIND...	THE BLIND MAN OF SEVILLE is a tour de force.  Robert Wilson melds police procedural with psychological thriller as he leads the reader through the social, geographic, and historic topography of Seville and Tangier.  Along the way Wilson offers insights into the vagaries of memory, the discomforts of truth, and the origins of loneliness.<br />Seville's chief homicide detective Javier Falcon, son of a famous painter, struggles to identify a killer who mutilates his victims while showing them unendurable images from their past.  At the same time Falcon is wrestling with ghosts of his own past: his divorce and the contents of his dead father's studio which he's kept locked away for nearly two years.  What he learns in these simultaneous investigations brings Falcon to verge of collapse.<br />This may not be a book for readers who want their mysteries to be simple mind candy.  It is dark, violent, and frightening.  However, if you admire the dark stories of Ruth Rendel and Nicolas Freeling, you should read THE BLIND MAN OF SEVILLE.	2003-04-16
US	51729554	R3M45GT0YY2HDW	0312308248	779789817	Dead Man Riding: A Nell Bray Mystery	Books	4	4	5	N	N	NOT YOUR AVERAGE COUNTRY HOUSE MYSTERY	#1's plot summary is generally correct, although she is confused about the time and manner of Nell's discovery of the corpse.  I do not agree, however, with her conclusion that Gillian Linscott \\"writes outside the sub-genre box\\".  I think DEAD MAN RIDING gives the classic English country house mystery an interesting twist while hewing faithfully to its conventions.<br />Linscott has placed her story in an earlier era -- the last year of Queen Victoria's reign.  It begins at a student production of Love's Labour's Lost, a clue to what will happen when an idealistic group of Oxford students set off to spend their summer break studying Plato in rural Cumberland.  Not the kind of motivation that usually draws characters in a murder mystery to an English country estate.  The country estate is very different too.  A rundown house with no spare bedrooms for the guests, with outdoor plumbing, and scant meals of rabbit stew and oatcake.<br />Linscott showers the reader with clues and suspects galore, in the classic mystery tradition, while obscuring their true import until the very end.  Her evocation of Cumberland circa 1901 is brillant and the mind-set of her late-Victorian characters is entirely believable.  <br />I take this to be a prequel to Nell Bray's later adventures as a sleuth.  If so, it is a very attractive beginning.	2003-04-14
US	51729554	R3HI2Y65MBMUWF	031228585X	408934039	Street Money: A Mystery	Books	4	1	2	N	N	IT'S A WISE CHILD...	Street Money is the most interesting mystery that I have read thus far this year.  It is also my first brush with magic realism in the mystery genre.  How else can one describe a plot fueled largely by coincidence and felicitous encounter?  It starts with the death of Benny \\"Lunch\\" Cosicki, successful facilitator of labor problems in Philadelphia and unfolds like an intricate piece of Celtic embroidery.<br />This is not to suggest that there is any lack of violence or derring-do in Kent's book.  Much of the latter is supplied by Benny's daughter, Andy, a fresh-minted Penn graduate who is determined to find out why her father died.  Her mentor is an agoraphobic obituary writer name Shep Ladderback at the tabloid Philadelphia Press where Andy has just been hired.  He helps her explore the web of Cosicki's relationships which began in an orphanage and stretch from the blue collar neighborhood of Redmonton where Benny tended bar and met Andy's mother to Philadelphia's Main Line.<br />I hope Kent gives us more Ladderback and Cosiski collaborations.	2003-04-09
US	51729554	R2QL33U388J6KJ	067003200X	968675587	Aunt Dimity Takes a Holiday	Books	3	3	6	N	N	A TREACLE TART	This is an oversweet treacle tart of a story, which is too bad because it has all the necessary ingredients of the classic mystery.  Nancy Atherton has mixed a weekend at a grand country house with mysterious events, poison pen threats, and the twin specters of disinheritance and murder.  What it lacks is some spice to balance all the sweetness and light.  In AUNT DIMITY TAKES A HOLIDAY the men are all sensitive, the women are all beautiful, and the children are all above average.  Two characters, including sleuth Lori Shepherd, are inseparably attached to stuffed animals and a stuffed elephant named \\"clumps\\" figures in the plot.  Shepherd has another altogether more fantastical familiar, Aunt Dimity, who is a dead family friend who communicates with her by writing in a blue journal.  Aunt Dmity supplies facts about the other characters, suggests avenues of investigation, and even offers advice on clothes.<br />Nancy Atherton has all the chops of a good mystery writer.  She is skilled at description, writes believable dialogue, and is good at creating an ominous mood.  I wish she would lose Aunt Dimity and find some real bad people to inhabit her stories.	2003-04-02
US	51729554	R2AGC3KG97K6TX	0425186504	849868965	Much Ado About Murder	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Shakespearean Capers	Much Ado About Murder is a collection of seventeen mystery stories stiched together by the common thread of Shakespeare's plays.  All were written especially for this anthology edited by Anne Perry.  Some put new twists on characters or plots lifted from the plays while others are about the actors performing the plays or about the Bard himself.<br />In the former category, Marcia Talley tells a humorous tale starring the three witches from Macbeth. In the title story, Kathy Lynn Emerson transports Beatrice and Benedict from Padua to Bloody Mary's England for an adventure.  Lillian Stewart Carl has Twlth Night's Duke Orsini send Viola/Cesario to Olivia's castle as a spy rather than an intermediary.  Posing as a kitchen maid, she solves the poisoning of Olivia's brother.  The Tempest, Henry V and VI, Hamlet, and Anthony and Cleopatra serve as launch pads for other writers' imaginings.<br />In the latter category, my favorite is P C Doherty's The Sperpent's Tooth which offers an interesting answer to the puzzle of Shakespeare's death and his epitaph.  Also enjoyable is Peter Tremayne's Elizabethan sleuth, Master Hardy Drew, solving the murder of an actor in the first production of Henry V.   Perry herself contributes a mystery set in a Victorian production of Othello.<br />The only story that seems out of place is Richard's Children by Brendan DuBois.  It's connection to Richard III is tenuous and the plot belongs with the likes of Robert Ludlum.	2003-02-07
US	51729554	R3CK3X6EZOFO7S	0451207173	504828940	Ruled Britannia	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A NEW ROLE FOR SHAKESPEARE	Since its inception, Science Fiction has speculated about time travel and the possibility of changing the present by meddling in the past.  Harry Turtledove writes about radically altered pasts without resort to time machine through a device called &quot;alternate history&quot;.  Blurbs on his books proclaim him the master of this genre.  In support of his title Turtledove has published two hefty tomes in as many months.  Advance and Retreat is the fourth book in his &quot;war between the provinces&quot; series which projects events in the US Civil War through a very convoluted looking glass.  Ruled Brtiannia is more conventional, working from a single &quot;what if...&quot; premise, i.e. that the Spanish armada had succeeded in subjugating England in 1588.<br />Elizabeth is locked up in the Tower and Phillip II's daughter sits on the throne of England.  Turtledove's story begins a decade later when William Shakespeare becomes embroiled in a plot to throw off the Spanish yoke.  He proves a reluctant and timid revolutionary.  Turtledove creates a persona for Shakespeare that is entirely believable and consistent with the known facts of his life.  Many of the other characters in the book are important historical figures, though playing somewhat different roles in an England under Spanish rule.  William Cecil is the prime conspirator rather than Elizabeth's prime minister.  He commissions Shakespeare to write and perform a play that will arouse the patriotic fervor of the English.  Lope de Vega, the great Spanish playwright (who really did sail with the armada) is a captain in the London garrison and a fan of Shakespeare's plays.  His commander has him commission Shakespeare to write a play extolling the virtues of Phillip II.  Faced with these competing and contradictory demands, Shakespeare comes up with a solution worthy of... well... of Shakespeare. Burbage, Kemp and Christopher Marlowe naturally figure in the story.<br />Turtledove sprinkles lines from Shakespeareand Marlowe, or approximations thereof, liberally through his dialogue.  He plays a trifle loose with the sequence of the plays for no apparent reason, having the Falstaff of the Merry Wives of Widsor precede the Falstaff of Henry IV -- rather than the the other way round.<br />A witty and entertaining book.	2003-01-03
US	51729554	R2LBKZXEBQQTOO	0743435761	851894334	Advance and Retreat	Books	3	1	3	N	N	THE CIVIL WAR  THROUGH THE LOOKING GLASS	Science Fiction since its inception has speculated about time travel and the possibility of changing the present by meddling in the past.  Harry Turtledove writes about radically altered pasts without resort to time machine in a genre known as &quot;alternate history&quot;.  Blurbs on his books proclaim him to be the master of this genre.  In support of that title he has had two hefty tomes published in as many months by two different publishers.  Ruled Britannia is the more conventional of the two, working from a single &quot;what if...&quot; premise, i.e. that the Spanish armada had succeeded in 1588 in subjugating England.  Advance and Retreat is the fourth book in Turtledove's &quot;war between the provinces&quot; series which projects events in the US Civil War through a very convoluted looking glass.<br />The agricultural northern provices of Detina are battling to establish a nation separate from the industrial southern provinces.  Grand Duke Geoffrey has been named king of the north where blonds are enslaved.  King Avram rules the south from the Black House.  The east is a wilderness peopled by savages while most of the population of the warring regions live along the edge of the western ocean.  For good measure, medieval weaponry (like crossbows) replace Civil War muskets and wizards with magic substitute for 19th century technology.  It is a clever conceit.<br />Turtledove coyly claims any resemblance to historical persons and places is coincidental, but the book's title just happens to match that of a memoir by Confederate General John Bell Hood of Texas.  The real names of Civil War figures and places are transformed by pun and transposition.  Decoding them will keep civil war buffs, already familiar with the events described, occupied and happy.  The commander-in-chief of the southern armies is Marshall Bart (Grant's middle name was Simpson).  He has Edward of Arlington (Lee) bottled up in the trenches around Pierreville (Petersburg).  General Hesmucet(Sherman's middle name was Tecumseh)is marching through Peachtree province toward the western seaport of Veldt (Savannah).  You get the idea.<br />Meanwhile, in the eastern theater of war (locus of Advance and Retreat), southern General Doubting George (George Thomas) has replaced General Guildenstern (Rosencrans).  He must stop the advance of one-armed, one-legged General Bell (Hood) upon Ramblerville (Nashville).  Bell's feared unicorn riders are led by Ned of the Forest (Nathan Bedford Forrest).  The plot follows the 1864-65 campaign in Tennessee quite faithfully.  Even without the Dungeons and Dragons element, it is a rip-snorting, action-packed story.  Both commanders are tragic figures of Shakespearian proportion. Events are seen through the eyes of the commanders, their subordinates, and a handful of the common soldiers.  Turtledove even slips in a twist about one of the northern foot soldiers, but readers familiar with classical mythology will have anticipated him.	2002-12-31
US	51729554	R1SVCUW3V3KUIS	0765304414	403981314	Second Sunrise: A Lee Nez Novel	Books	2	8	9	N	N	A vampire cursed by poor writing	Having enjoyed several of the Ella Clah mysteries by the Thurlos, I had high expectations for Second Sunrise.  Those were dashed almost immediately. #1 places the book in the horror genre and it is indeed a horror of clunky narrative, stilted dialogue, and unconvincing plot.<br />In 1945, Lee Nez, a New Mexico State Policeman of Navajo extraction and his partner come upon a gang of German spies led by a Nazi vampire attacking a military convoy carrying plutonium for the Manhattan Project. Everyone but Nez and the vampire are killed in the ensuing firefight. Nez manages to hide the plutonium before the German vampire turns him into a vampire.  Nez goes to a Navajo healer living conveniently nearby and is partially cured of his vampirism.  \\"partially\\" means he is less strong than a full-blown vampire, but can survive in daylight with a good coat of sunblock.  The healer warns him to watch out for skinwalkers -- Navajo shapeshifters -- because they can smell vampires and covet their immortality. So much for prologue.<br />55 years later, Nez has rejoined the New Mexico State Police in the four corners area as Leonard Hawk.  He apparently spent the intervening years exterminating skinwalkers and the odd vampire. He learns that the German vampire has returned, posing as a German airforce pilot in order to recover the plutonium Nez hid for Iraqi terrorists. Lee Hawk's inquiry about the German pilot brings him to the attention of a beautiful, spunky FBI agent. She becomes his ally after they are attacked at his apartment by a pack of skinwalkers in wolf form. <br />The story ought to be riviting, but it clanks along like the caterpiller tractor that figures in the anticlimactic denouement.	2002-12-23
US	51729554	R2EIRFO1WTJ57H	0066210801	784401617	Vagabond (The Grail Quest, Book 2)	Books	4	24	27	N	N	Thomas of Hookton's Quest Continues	Vagabond is the second book in the Thomas of Hookton saga (now called the &quot;Grail Quest Series&quot;) by Bernard Cornwell.  It confirms what I said in reviewing The Archer's Tale:  that Thomas is an engaging picaresque hero and a worthy successor to Richard Sharpe, central character of Cornwell's earlier series on the Napoleonic Wars. <br />Thomas is an English archer through whose eyes we witness numerous battles early in the Hundred Years' War.  He is also the illegimate son of the Hookton priest who was, strangely enough, a member of the French nobility and the keeper of a mysterious relic.  We left Thomas in The Archer's Tale, shortly after the battle of Crecy, still seeking his cousin Guy de Vexille, Count of Astarac, who years earlier had murdered his father and destroyed the village of Hookton.<br />In Vagabond, Thomas has returned to Britain on a mission for Edward III to discover the whereabouts of his father's relic and to determine whether it is truly the Holy Grail of legend.  The book begins in 1347 at the battle of Neville's Cross, a triumph of English bowmen over a superior force of Scots who invaded Britain on behalf of their French allies.  It ends back in Brittany after the siege of La Roche-Derrien.  In the course of the story Thomas runs afoul of a vicious English knight nicknamed Scarecrow, the Inquistion ( which is also on the Grail's trail), not to mention his cousin and several enemy armies.  Along the way his wife-to-be and several friends are killed.  Thomas, like Sharpe, seems to lead a charmed life, but those around him are not so lucky.<br />Vagabond is first-rate historical fiction, chock-a-block full of gory medieval warfare set in vividly-described English and Breton landscapes.  Everyone rightly praises Cornwell's mastery of historical minutia, but I think his strongest storytelling gift is his ability to make his readers see, and feel, and smell a scene.  At the book's end Thomas has learned more about his heritage and vanquished many enemies, but the quest for the Grail and his father's muderer will be continued.	2002-12-22
US	51729554	RQR4P9HQN4PAL	0060013117	591200758	Night Watch: A Novel of Discworld	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Times of Vimes	In Night Watch, Terry Pratchett has a second (and more successful) go at time. It's predecessor, Thief of Time, starred Lao Tzu and his monks (who keep the threads of time running smoothly on their spindles most of the time)trying to thwart a plot to stop time.<br />Night Watch is a more conventional time-travel story. Watch Commander Vimes, one of Pratchett's continuing characters, is cast back to the Ankh-Morpork of his youth by a lightning bolt just as he is arresting the most-wanted criminal in the city, a stone-cold killer named Carcer. Carcer shares Vimes' fate, escapes and sets about to create a future more to his own liking -- one that does not include Commander Vimes. The time in which they find themselves is a pivotal moment in Ankh-Morpork's history and in Vimes' own development as a police officer.<br />Pratchett finesses the paradox of having the youthful Constable Vimes encounter his more mature self by having Commander Vimes assume the identity of John Keel, a sergeant of the watch he remembers from his youth. As Lao Tzu labors to bring Commander Vimes back to his proper place in time, Vimes struggles to keep Carcer from killing either of his selves and turning Ankh-Morpork to the dark side. Along the way, we encounter the future ruler of Ankh-Morpork, Lord Vetinari, in his youthful form as an apprentice in the Assassin's Guild.<br />Much of the action in Night Watch takes place in Treacle Road, which is perhaps unintentionally appropriate. There is a vein of sticky sentimentality running through this story that makes this reader's teeth ache. It needed more of the wry humor with which Pratchett seasons his best books -- like The Word. Night Watch is, nevertheless, an entertaining fast-paced adventure that will please Pratchett's legions of devoted fans.	2002-12-07
US	51729554	R1VF33G7WCVR0C	0312291175	484265570	Celt and Pepper: A Mystery Set at the University of Notre Dame	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A pleasant confection	Ralph McInerny, creator of the Father Dowling series, has produced a pleasant holiday confection.  Set on the Notre Dame University campus during Christmas break, it stars the Knight brothers in their fifth mystery.<br />Remarkably unviolent, by current mystery standards, Celt and Pepper is mostly about love and academic in-fighting.  McInerny shows that both can be pretty vicious without much actual bloodshed.  The author does some slicing and dicing of his own in his portrayal of various faculty members and university types.  The book features a novel method of murder -- death by sneezing.  The victim is an Irish poet on a visitng professorship who suffers from an undefined heart condition.<br />Elements of the story are rooted in Notre Dame's past.  This gives McInerny a chance to show the reader the school both in the present and in earlier times.  He is more effective at that than he is at delineating the characters of the Knights.  <br />The identity of the murderer is not hard to puzzle out, but then who wants to be overtaxed mentally at Christmas break?	2002-12-05
US	51729554	RSNVGH4V5TQF3	0892967714	206344772	A Body in the Bathhouse	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Flush the Bathhouse	It is hard to imagine a mystery bad enough to not get five stars from #1.  The only redeeming feature of A Body in the Bathhouse, for me, was its description of the construction of the Roman Palace at Fishbourne.  Because my ignorance of the site is near total, the details that bored other readers were more interesting to me than the characters or the plot.  <br />Too many sub-plots, too many pat soluctions, too much cutesy family stuff, too much Benny Hill potty humor, too much wrong word-usage (ex-patriot for expatriate), and too much British slang from the lips of Romans.	2002-11-11
US	51729554	R25D1NTHRQNSLM	0195158571	436402699	Crossroads of Freedom: Antietam Leather Signed Edition (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	To The Point, But Very Brief	This is Civil War historian McPherson's contribution to a series called Pivotal Moments in American History.  It's sole purpose seems to be to show that the battle of Antietam was such a moment and it does so clearly and very briefly.  As such, it may be useful for an American History curriculum based on \\"pivotal moments\\", but for general readers of Civil War history it doesn't break any new ground.  It uses primary sources, i.e. soldiers' letters, contemprary newspapers, and memoirs to make its points.<BR>    The first hundred pages are devoted to sketching in events earlier in 1962 and outlining the reasons that so much hung in the balance on the eve of the battle.  It is an excellent summary.  The battle itself gets only about 25 pages, with the remainder of the book devoted to Antietam's aftermath and the effects that flowed from it.<BR>     Those looking for a detailed moment-by-moment description of the battle of Antietam should look elsewhere.  McPherson has produced a short,useful book on the battle's importance in the outcome of the Civil War and in the politcal history of the United States.	2002-11-09
US	51729554	R13ZDY9YR2VRV8	0399149295	41838335	Blood Orchid (Holly Barker No. 3)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	No Shrinking Violet	In Holly Barker, police chief of Orchid Beach Florida, Stuart Woods has created the toughest, coolest, most ripsnorting female police officer I have encountered yet in mystery fiction.  A bit dim though, for in Blood Orchid it takes her a couple of dozen deaths and 200 pages longer than it takes the reader to figure out who the chief villain is.  Nevertheless Holly moves through a plot filled with murder, mayhem, and sex so energetically there is scant time to reflect on her obtuseness.<br />Chief Barker dashes back and forth across the state of Florida at breakneck speed investigating a \\"floater\\" that landed on her beach.  Along the way she offs two baddies with her pistol and another with a steak knife, beds an undercover FBI agent, wraps up a huge mob operation, and still finds time and energy to take flying lessons.  Dirty Harry can't hold a candle to her. And through it all, she exhibits a feminine sensibility that contrasts sharply with her derring-do.<br />Surprisingly, in such a violent action story, the dialogue is crisp and witty.  Faced with near-certain death, Holly and her hunky Fed trade quips like a couple of stand-up comics.  The last scene of the book is very funny.  Blood Orchid is a guilty pleasure: a fast-paced confection of constant bloodshed laced with humor.	2002-10-31
US	51729554	R1TIK4EBLRQ5A2	0312205481	803900619	A Fine and Bitter Snow: A Kate Shugak Novel (Kate Shugak Mysteries)	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Not So Fine	If A Fine and Bitter Snow is typical of the Kate Shugak series, she is not my cup of tea.  This book belongs in the romance section rather than the mystery section of the bookstore.  The mystery of who killed a elderly local environmentalist plays a distant second fiddle to Kate's romantic entanglement.  The killer's identity is obvious from moments after Trooper Jim arrives at the murder scene -- though the motivation caught me by surprise. <br />Except for Shugak and Trooper Jim, the cast of characters seem like refugees from old Northern Exposure episodes.  Everyone is simpatico, racial problems don't exist, law enforcement is enlightened and compassionate.  Dana Stabenow makes the most significant problem in this arcadian utopia which of two hunky suitors Kate will finally bed.  Even that isn't any mystery.	2002-08-10
US	51729554	R3QCMYYRMYXY1J	0316566888	802115246	The Ornament of the World: How Muslims, Jews, and Christians Created a Culture of Tolerance in Medieval Spain	Books	4	20	30	N	N	Timely and Revelatory	I found The Ornament of the World to be both revelatory and timely reading with many cautionary analogies to our own time.<BR>It gives an overview of civilization on the Iberian peninsula in the 8th-15th century with primary emphasis on the cultural achievements of its Muslim, Jewish, and Christian inhabitants.  Maria Rosa Menocal describes the rise, decline and disappearance of a multi-ethnic, multi-cultural society where competing religious beliefs seemed to nurture rather than inhibit learning and the arts.  Harold Bloom, certainly no avatar of modern multi-culturalism, wrote the introduction.<br />Menocal's tone is elgaic in describing the early (8th-10th century) period of Muslim control when al-Andalus and its capital, Cordoba, flourished.  One is reminded of Camelot's \\"one brief shining moment\\".  It even had its Arthur in Abd al Rahman, a half-Berber grandson of the last Umayyad Caliph of Damascus, who made a five-year trek across North Africa to Iberia after the Abbasids massacred the rest of his clan.  Over the next thirty years he:<BR>1.  United the peninsula into a state that endured for 200 years and in which Muslims, Jews, and Christians lived side by side in \\"a complex culture of tolerance\\".<BR>2.  Improved agriculture by introducing new crops and irrigation from the middle east.<BR>3.  Built architectural masterpieces like the great mosque of Cordoba.<BR>4.  Fought Charlemagne to a standstill.<BR>5.  Wrote wistful poetry about his former homeland.<br />Under Abd al-Rahman and his descendants al-Andalus achieved great material and intellectual wealth.  The 10th century Caliph's library at Cordoba may had had as many as 400,000 volumes at a time when no library in the rest of Europe had more than 500.  It included troves of pre-Muslim Arabic poetry and Arabic translations of Greek literature, philosophy and science unknown in Christian Europe.<br />The Umayyads were overthrown by an army of north African Berbers who sacked Cordoba, but in time adapted to the unique culture of al-Andalus.  In the 11th-12th centuries, city states (taifas) ruled by Muslims in the south and by Christians in the north replaced the centralized government of the Umayyads.  Elements of the \\"complex culture\\" persisted.  Granada's Muslim ruler chose a Jewish poet to command his army as  Vizier.  Rodrigo Diaz, the El Cid of the troubadours, fought for the Muslim king of Seville as well as for the Christian kigs of Castile.  Toledo became the most important center for translating the riches of the Arabic libraries into Latin and the venacular for the rest of Europe.<br />Menocal says that the last shards of Andalusian religious tolerance were lost in the clash of increasingly rigid Muslim and Christian zealotry.  Its origins were extrinsic to the culture that had evolved on the Iberian peninsula.  The Almohads, Islamic fundamentalists arrived from North Africa and the Inquisition came over the Pyrenees from Rome.<br />The criticism of other Amazon reviewers strikes me as small-minded.  Ornament of the World was not written for specialists in Medieval Spanish history, but, like the books of Stephen Ambrose, for general readers of history.  Ms Menocal breaks new ground in tracing threads of intellectual influence from pre-Muslim Arabia, Palestine and Greece that passed through medieval Spain and into the works of writers like Chaucer, Dante, Bocaccio, Bacon, Halevi, Abelard and Cervantes.  She is occasionally repetitious, I think, out of a desire to emphasize her points.  Other reviewers accuse Menocal of understating the degree of repression and discrimination in the Muslim era.  My question for them is:  where else in crusader Europe did minority religions fare better?  And, for that matter, are the 21st century societies in Northern Ireland, Saudi Arabia, Israel or Kashmir any more tolerant than that of al-Andalus?	2002-08-06
US	51729554	R1BXI0EX13I2E9	1400045088	458212829	The Salmon of Doubt: Hitchhiking the Galaxy One Last Time	Books	2	37	43	N	N	A Doubtful Salmon	Sadly, I must disagree with most other reviewers on the merits of this well-intentioned pastiche from the computer files of the late Douglas Adams.  People who have read and loved Adams' novels ought to see what a weak hodge-podge The Salmon of Doubt really is.  Stephen Fry says on the dust jacket, &quot;The bottom drawer of recently deceased writers is often best left firmly locked and bolted.&quot;  He goes on to say this book is an exception.  It's not.  Adams, perfectionist that he was, would be embarrassed at what has been published in his name.<br />The material Adams actually wrote for novels-in-progress (three disparate fragments)amounts to just eighty pages.  Though very funny, the writing is less polished than in his finished novels.  And, of course, the reader is left with a tangle of plot threads like the &quot;Little Dongly Things&quot; Adams deplores in a MacUser article.  The remainder of the book consists of previously published magazine articles, previously published interviews, a short comic sketch on Genghis Kahn published in a 1986 book, and a couple of letters.  In the articles and interviews Adams occasionally comes across as querulous (on remodeling his home) or pompous (on the subject of his atheism).  His best essays are on music -- from Bach to the Beattles -- where passion ignites his language.<br />I hope the people who control the material from Adams' computer files give us a book of his letters.  Richard Dawkins, in his epilogue, says Adams was a prolific and funny email correspondent.  The Collected Email of Douglas Adams might be a more fitting memorial to Adams than The Salmon of Doubt.	2002-06-30
US	51729554	R6HHWGDE5IYRM	0060194448	657088689	The Wailing Wind	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Average Hillerman	This is only an average Hillerman effort, but Hillerman's average is better than most mystery writers' best.  It is more sentimental in tone than his earlier books.  Joe Leaphorn, the retired &quot;legendary lieutenant&quot; is back, helping Sgt. Chee and officer Bernadette Manuelito untangle an old and and new homicide -- as well as their personal relationship.  The plot as it finally unfolds seems far-fetched to me, but Hillerman makes the trip enjoyable with his practiced depiction of his principal characters and Navajo life in general.	2002-05-12
US	51729554	RE5QABZA4522M	0312288506	466997771	Ash Child (Gabriel Du Pre Novels)	Books	2	3	9	N	N	a few gleams in the ashes	Do not be cozzened by the fulsome praise of #1 into buying this book. Despite her claim, Peter Bowen does not do \\"for Montana what Tony Hillerman does for New Mexico\\". Nevertheless Ash Child contains some shiny nuggets of writing that may justify carting it home from the library.<br />Bowen's central characters are Gabriel Du Pre and Madelaine Placquemines, Metis (people of mixed Native American and European ancestory) living in \\"Toussaint\\" in central Montana. Gabriel has no visible means of support (we are told he used to be a brand inspector) and Madelaine works in the local bar. Bowen says he chose to use Metis because \\"the Metis are a great people, a wonderful people, and not many Americans know anything about them.\\" Unfortunately Ash Child does little to alleviate that deficiency apart from rendering the dialogue of Gabriel and Madelaine into dialect. The reader learns nothing about the history or culture of Metis -- unless one assunes they all subsist on a diet of bourbon ditches and \\"pink fizzy wine\\" like Gabriel and Madelaine.<br />In Ash Child, Montana is beset by a disastrous summer of forest fires (as in 2000), a raging Methamphetamine epidemic and a rash of murders. Bowen's pair of unlikely Metis sleuths tackle all three problems with some help from a mysterious shaman named Benetsee who communicates with the \\"old ones\\" and has the power to make fire do his bidding. Perhaps one shouldn't expect a logical plot in such a setting, but it takes more than supernatural manifestations to explain away all the loose threads in this story.<br />There are some traces of real gold amid the clinkers -- vivid word-pictures and arresting phrases. Example: calling the thick ash on a burnt-over hillside \\"the shadow of the fire\\". Bowen slips obscure bits of western Americana, almost like inside jokes, into his story. i.e. the Democrat wagon and using the name of a priest who was important in 19th Century central Montana for Touissant's current priest. At the same time heembraces some of the tinniest myths of Rocky Mountain libertarianism. to wit: Local ranchers and cowboys know more about fighting wild fire than the US Forest Service; vigilante justice is better than court-administered justice; millionaire ranchers are the protectors of the less fortunate citizens in their communities against the highhanded behavior of federal bureaucrats.	2002-04-19
US	51729554	RFIPJMB0KUZEC	0684848708	512931397	What Kind of Nation: Thomas Jefferson, John Marshall, and the Epic Struggle to Create a United States	Books	4	63	76	N	N	TITLE SHOULD BE "WHAT KIND OF COURT"	This is surely the winter of Thomas Jefferson's discontent.  His political credo of limiting the power of the federal government is invoked to restrict the rights of individual citizens against giant commercial entities and his defense of executive privilege is used to limit public and Congressional investigation into administrative wrongdoing.  To make matters worse, he is attacked by present-day historians as hypocritical, petty, and perhaps worst of all -- trivial.<br />In James F Simon's What Kind of Nation, Jefferson comes off as all three in his battles over constitutional interpretation with his cousin and nemesis John Marshall, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.  One of the blurbs on the jacket describe Simon as<br />\\"eminently fair\\".  That would be accurate if the title of the book were \\"What Kind of Court\\".  But taken as a study of the two men's contribution to the kind of nation the United States became, it is skewed.  What Kind of Nation is the story of Marshall's contribution, but it is far from the full record of Jefferson's.<br />Simon, a law professor, is admirable in his clear, readable exposition of how Marshall expanded the powers of the US Supreme Court during his thirty-year stewardship.  Nearly single-handedly Marshall established the court as co-equal with the executive and legislative branches of the federal government and superior to the individual states' courts.  Both Marshall and Jefferson were political partisans who bent legal ideology to suit their own pragmatic objectives, but Marshall was unquestionably better at it.  For example, Marshall was a loyal if unenthusiastic supporter of the Alien and Sedition Acts which Federalist judges used to make political dissent a crime.  Yet thirty years later he stage-managed the acquittal of Aaron Burr on charges of treason brought by Jefferson's administration that were based on very real grounds.  There were certainly political differences and personal animosity between the two, but matching them off as the primary antagonists in a struggle to shape the future of the nation is artifical.  The court was Marshall's forum and its power and well-being his prime concern.  Jefferson's arena was broader.<br />As President, Jefferson more than doubled the size of the United States.  Marshall did not join his old Federalist allies in opposing the Louisiana Purchase.  Lacking an adversarial confrontation, Simon spends no time reflecting on the importance of Jefferson's acquisition in shaping the economic and physical form of the United States.  The Louisiana Purchase has had more to do with this country's place in the sun than the powers of the Supreme Court.  I would also argue that Simon's focus upon the judicial undervalues Jefferson's importance to the \\"kind of nation\\" we are morally and philosophically.  Jefferson's words -- not Marshall's -- still express the ideals to which we aspire as a nation.  As Jefferson's actions sometimes fell short of his aspirations, so do ours.<br />What Kind of Nation is a well-written thought-provoking book based on careful historical documentation.  I enjoyed it thoroughly even though I do not agree with the dialectic it proposes. Like David McCullough's John Adams, it broadens one's understanding of the foundations of our nationhood.m off as the primary antagonists in a struggle to shape the future of the nation is artifical.  The court was Marshall's forum and its power and well-being his prime concern.  Jefferson's arena was broader.<br />As President, Jefferson more than doubled the size of the United States.  Marshall did not join his old Federalist allies in opposing the Louisiana Purchase.  Lacking an adversarial confrontation, Simon spends no time reflecting on the importance of Jefferson's acquisition in shaping the economic and physical form of the United States.  The Louisiana Purchase has had more to do with this country's place in the sun than the powers of the Supreme Court.  I would also argue that Simon's focus upon the judicial undervalues Jefferson's importance to the \\"kind of nation\\" we are morally and philosophically.  Jefferson's words -- not Marshall's -- still express the ideals to which we aspire as a nation.  As Jefferson's actions sometimes fell short of his aspirations, so do ours.<br />What Kind of Nation is a well-written thought-provoking book based on careful historical documentation.  I enjoyed it thoroughly even though I do not agree with the dialectic it proposes. Like David McCullough's John Adams, it broadens one's understanding of the foundations of our nationhood.	2002-03-31
US	51729554	RY565SXOQE7HM	0805069062	352429226	Theodore Roosevelt: The American Presidents Series: The 26th President, 1901-1909	Books	3	2	3	N	N	An Unilluminated Portrait	Louis Auchincloss, one of the best American fiction writers of the past fifty years, has turned out a brief, seviceable, workmanlike biography of Theodore Roosevelt. It is disappointing only in that it is not more than that. One might have expected special insight into TR's complex personality from a biographer who not only comes from the same stratum of American society, but who has studied and written so exhaustively about its denizens. \\"Roosevelt\\" would be a more interesting book had its author shown the same illuminating empathy for his subject that he brought to \\"The Rector of Justin\\" and \\"The House of Five Talents\\". <br />Perhaps that was not the brief he was assigned by Arthur Schlesinger Jr., the general editor of the Henry Holt series on American presidents. The book spans TR's entire life in less than 150 pages. That brevity forces Auchincloss to be a quick-sketch artist. For example, Roosevelt's own substantial body of writing is scarcely mentioned. By contrast, Edmund Morris' recently-published mega-biography, \\"Theodore Rex\\", devotes 864 pages to just TR's seven years as President.<br />Auchincloss would seem uniquely suited to unravel and explain the contradictions one sees in Roosevelt's character. Yet he offers no original thoughts about what might have transformed a snobbish graduate of Groton and Harvard's Porcelllian Club (who asked his mother to check the antecedents of his classmates to see if they were the \\"right kind of people\\")into a great reform-minded President. He mentions TR's western ranching venture in this connection, but by that time Roosevelt had already served three terms in the New York Legislature learning, Auchincloss says, \\"that social progress can only be accomplished by means that gentlemen of his sort had previously scorned\\".  What impelled TR to enter politics, at all, when for men of his background and income \\"public service\\" meant sitting on the boards of charities? Neither does Auchincloss attempt to examine the psychic cost to TR of being labeled \\"a traitor to his class\\" by people with whom TR and his family had always socialized. A surprising omission for a writer who has frequently mined New York's high society for stories laden with genteel malice and exquisite cruelty.<br />Auchincloss does offer an interesting psychological interpretation of Roosevelt's lust for dangerous military service for himself and for his sons. (he accused his son Archie, who asked for a few days' leave in order to get married prior to shipping for France, of being \\"a slacker\\") Auchincloss suggests that TR was secretly ashamed that his own father had avoided service in the Civil War by hiring a substitute. Perhaps this is a sufficient discursion into the realm of motivation for those readers this book was designed for, but I would have wished for more.	2002-02-12
US	51729554	R11KFM77FAU6P0	0425183246	789069629	The Clerk's Tale (Sister Frevisse Medieval Mysteries)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Chaucer's grandaughter is on the case	This is one of the most satisfying historical mysteries I have read recently.  Margaret Frazer's latest Dame Frevisse story is meticulous in its 15th centruy backdrop, if a bit slow-paced in the unfolding of the plot.  Dame Frevisse is a Benedictine nun and the granddaughter of Geoffry Chaucer.  The titles of the series sound as if they are lifted from Canterbury Tales, though only a few actually are.<br />The story takes place in 1446, early in the reign of Henry VI.  It is a time of truce in the Hundred Years' War.  Jeanne d\\"Arc is dead and the French have not yet begun their push to finally expel the English from their continental holdings.  Most of the characters in the story are from the lesser country gentry or bourgeoisie.  The doings at the royal court are only a distant rumor, but impinging on this story is the maneuvering for power between the Earl of Suffolk (to whom Frevisse's cousin is married) and Lord Lovell which presages the coming War of the Roses.<br />Dame Frivisse has been asked to accompany her prioress on a visit to her dying cousin, prioress of St Mary's convent in Goring, Oxfordshire.  Upon arriving they find that Master Montfort, Escheator of the county, has been murdered in the garden of the convent.  He was at Goring to resolve a contested inheritance.  The extended families involved in the dispute are numerous and Montfort was universally disliked, so the list of suspects is long.  Montfort's son, Christopher, who is also an official of the crown, has the responsibility for investigating his father's death.  He secretly enlists Dame Frivisse, who has a reputation for solving murders, to help him.<br />The central characters are well-drawn and three-dimensional.  I particularly liked Montfort's widow and Lady Agnes, the feisty grandmother of one of the claimants in the property dispute.  The reader is treated to a detailed look at life among the minor gentry in medieval England -- especially their food and dress.  Dame Frivisse is no jumped-up 21st century female PI in period costume, (as are too many of the detectives in historical mysteries)but is rather a smart, observant, pious nun who has a knack for untangling people's motivations.	2002-02-03
US	51729554	R2T3AFVT9KQDM2	0553801023	482522426	Puzzled to Death (Puzzle Lady Mysteries)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	passable puzzle	Parnell Hall may be a candidate for an award in the most-unlikely-occupation-for-a-fictional-detective sweepstakes. Jockey detectives, bookstore-owner detectives, and gourmet-chef detectives pale by comparison to a bogus crossword puzzle-maven detective.  His sleuth, Cora Felton, is a syndicated crossword puzzle composer -- or rather she poses as one.  Her niece Sherry is the real composer; Cora just solves murders.<br />Cora is the best thing about this book.  She is an unsentimental, tough-talking, hard-drinking, much-married old bird.  The late Eileen Heckert would have been perfect to play her on screen.  How she came to be the beloved Puzzle Lady is never explained.<br />Apart from Cora, \\"Puzzled to Death\\" is a pretty ordinary mystery. The locale is Bakerhaven Connecticut, as patently artificial as the village in Murder She Wrote.  It boasts a daily newspaper, a paper mill, a medical examiner, two crossword puzzle experts, a passel of bed-and-breakfasts, but only one lawyer.  All the residents seem to have surnames that originated in the British Isles; an unlikely circumstance even in the most remote corners of Litchfield County.  Bakerhaven is about to host a charity crossword puzzle contest when a local housewife is murdered.  Cora and the chief of police compete at solving the crime while most of the town is busy solving crossword puzzles.<br />Hall's dialogue is snappy and he offers some interesting insight into crossword puzzle composition and contests, but he violates the rules of the classical murder mystery in his denouement.  My overall reaction is ehhhh!	2002-01-20
US	51729554	R12SZGSFCX6DXN	0743202643	261375867	Queen of Ambition	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Elizabethan intrigue	In this instance I concur with the opinion of the ubiquitous and easily-pleased &quot;#1&quot;.   Fiona Buckley has written an exciting intelligent historical mystery set in 1564, early in the reign of Queen Elizabeth.  It is the time before Elizabeth has become &quot;good Queen Bess&quot;; a time filled with uncertainty and unrest over issues of religion and the royal succession.  Mary, Queen of Scots and others vie for the right to succeed or replace her on the throne.  Elizabeth's council led by Sir William Cecil are frantic for her to marry -- marry almost anyone -- except her favorite Robert Dudley (later to become the Earl of Leicester).  Buckley's plot is skillfully intertwined with those issues.<br />Elizabeth and her court are about to set off on a royal summer progress to Cambridge.  Cecil is worried about a proposed student &quot;entertainment&quot; involving a mock sword fight with Dudley and a faked abduction.  He calls upon the services of his secret agents, including Ursula Blanchard, to investigate whether there is something sinister behind the student jape.  I have some difficulty with Blanchard serving as a trusted operative for Sir William.  Not only is she a woman (in a time when women occupied a circumscribed role in society), but she is married to a French Catholic nobleman.  Cecil was adamantly anti-Catholic and anti-French.  Once one accepts the unlikely existence of her lead character, Buckley provides a fast-paced, well-written yarn.<br />Ursula decides to go undercover by working in a pie shop frequented by the students planning the entertainment.  The leader of the group dies in a riding accident shortly after she meets him.  The Queen's arrival is imminent, pressuring Blanchard and her associates to come up with answers quickly.<br />Though the solution is intricate and a bit farfetched, Buckley gives the reader a throughly enjoyable trip through the society and intrigues of Elizabethan England.  I particularly like the way Buckley showsUrsula and her colleagues as rounded human beings, affected and altered by the events of the story.	2002-01-05
US	51729554	R2IRWGTZ4IWXFO	0312269935	482009736	Saintly Murders: A Medieval Mystery Featuring Kathryn Swinbrooke	Books	3	13	17	N	N	Ungraceful	Paul C Doherty (writing here as CL Grace) is the Earl Stanley Gardner of historical mystery writers, turning out several books a year. Most are set in medieval England, a historical period in which Doherty earned a PhD at Oxford. SAINTLY MURDERS is set in 1472 at Canterbury and features as its sleuth Kathryn Swinbrooke, physician and apothecary. It is packed with murders, mysteries, and royal intrigues. Doherty even gives his readers a locked room mystery, a plot device that has languished since John Dickson Carr. The busy plot tends to distract a reader from the book's weaknesses: shallow characterization and pedestrian dialogue. The historical figures in the story, like Archbishop Borchier and Edward IV, are more fully realized than the fictional ones. <br />SAINTLY MURDERS bears a passing resemblance to the Brother Caedfal mysteries of Ellis Peters. The central murder victim is a friar of the Order of the Sack, who also happens to be the confessor of Cecily of York, mother of Edward IV. Much of the action takes place on the grounds of the prosperous Order's establishment. Within days of his death, Friar Atwood is being put forward for sainthood because of miracles and mysterious occurrences at his burial site. The Archbishop of Canterbury appoints Kathrn Swinbrooke Advocatus Diaboli (the Devil's Advocate) to argue the case against Atwood's beatification. In the process she uncovers and solves murders and spy plots galore.<br />Loath though I am to question historical details provided by an Oxford-educated medievalist, Grace/Doherty's having Kathryn appointed Advocatus Diaboli so that she has the power to delve into the mystery of Friar Atwood's death smells extremely fishy. The first recorded mention of an Advocatus Diaboli was in 1513, 40 years after this story takes place, and the office was not formally established until 1587. Those who held the title were generally high churchmen, not apothecaries and certainly not women. My biggest difficulty, though, with SAINTLY MURDERS is not this dubious plot device but rather the way Kathryn exercises her power as Devil's Advocate. In general she behaves just like a brash 21st century female PI. She orders male characters about and threatens them as if she has been doing it all her life. She tells a church prelate to &quot;shut up&quot; and jibes the King's brother about his manhood. In his afterword, Grace/Doherty makes the argument that women &quot;...probably had more rights in 1300 than they had in 1900...&quot; and cites Chaucer's Wife of Bath as a woman who could hold her own with men. Perhaps, perhaps, but that does not mean that a woman of Kathryn's station in life would be accustomed to bossing and questioning, with such panache, men and women of higher social standing.<br />I find it odd that the Black Death and its aftermath figures not at all in SAINTLY MURDERS' backdrop of English life during a lull in the War of the Roses. The battle of Tewkesbury may have decimated the Lancastrian nobility, but the plague reduced the population of the British Isles by a third, a loss that took three centuries to recoup. The effects of declining food production caused by the plague and climatic change is nowhere visible. The expulsion of the English from their continental possessions is mentioned, but we aren't shown the diastrous reduction in trade that resulted from that loss. Grace/Doherty gives his readers a merry old England going about its business as usual, but that is not the real Britain of 1472.	2001-11-13
US	51729554	R2XW1MI2F1YHMG	0312280521	189580758	O Gentle Death	Books	4	6	7	N	N	death song	O Gentle Death is a very fine novel which also happens to be a murder mystery.   Janet Neel has fleshed over the bare bones of a classic Scotland Yard procedural with interesting glimpses of the lives of a diverse group of realistic characters.  There are no Colonel Mustards or Mrs. Peacocks here.  I recommend the book enthusiatically.<br />The main thread of the plot unwinds at Faraday Trust, a progressive British boarding school, where the arts and individuality are cherished and nourished.  As the end of spring term approaches, so do signs of trouble.  The Trustees of the school have asked the headmaster to step down because weak test results for university admisssion are hurting enrollment.  Several members of the staff are vying to succeed him.  Catriona Roberts, an underachieving, unhappy sixth-former is causing problems for her fellow students and for the staff -- which includes both her step-parents.  Her death at a London party attended by many of the staff, her biological parents, and several of her classmates proves to be murder rather than suicide.<br />Chief Inspector John McLeish (whom I take to be a regular fixture in Mrs. Neel's novels) has connections to the school and to several of its students through his wife Francesca, a musician and college administrator on maternity leave.  McLeish and Francesca are present at the party and he is ordered to take charge of the investigation into Catriona's murder despite an obvious conflict of interest.  He and his team work desperately to solve the murder before the suspects disperse at the end of term.  Refreshingly, the case is not solved either by clever detective work or by having the sleuth recklessly put himself in harm's way, as so many mystery stories are these days.	2001-11-12
US	51729554	R3BYGU408L50L0	0684857359	177040953	In the Wake of the Plague: The Black Death and the World It Made	Books	3	17	20	N	N	A Surfeit of Plagues	Norman Cantor has written a slim, un-footnoted book about an interesting and timely topic -- plague. His blurb-writers describe IN THE WAKE OF THE PLAGUE as &quot;lively&quot; and &quot;easy to read&quot;, while I would call the book's style breezy and diffuse. At one point Cantor writes that the Ottoman Turks finally captured Constantinople &quot;...on their way to Kosovo&quot;. And why does the reader need to know that Johan Huizinga wrote his masterwork, THE AUTUMN OF THE MIDDLE AGES, &quot;after his department head reminded him it was publish or perish time.&quot;? There are some odd phrases, factual mistakes and numerous repetitions that careful editing should have removed. On the positive side is Cantor's engaging technique of describing the effect of the Black Death on specific individuals and families. Another value of the book is that it provides the reader with an up-to-date survey of historical theories about the Black Death, in particular, and pandemics in general. For example, I was not aware that there is current thought that the Black Death was the combined result of an outbreak of bubonic plague and anthrax.<br />In addition to describing the effects of the Black Death on European society, Cantor seems to be enunciating a biomedical theory of history in this book. He suggests that earlier outbreaks of plague (probably smallpox and/or gonorrhea) played the same pivotal role in the decline of the Roman Empire that he assigns to the Black Death's effect on the medieval Plantagenet empire. He concludes that those events should provide cautionary examples to citizens of the American empire.<br />An example of factual errors is Cantor's placing the village of Saint Julien &quot;south of Bordeaux&quot; when, in fact, it is northwest. In the twisted phrase department, he writes about mankind's migration &quot;...up the Nile to the Mediterranean&quot; and pandemics traveling &quot;...up the chute of the Nile.&quot; Repetitions: Cantor tells the reader at least three times that Richard II was a weak ruler who probably lost his crown because he was gay. Richard's sexual orientation has no relevance to the Black Death, so why harp on it? In fact, the emphasis on it tends to undermine Cantor's claim that plague was the primary factor in the loss of the Plantagenet's continental provinces.	2001-10-29
US	51729554	R2ES6QO4ET1XC7	0399147101	540217053	Potshot	Books	2	4	5	N	N	A Potboiler From Parker	If Robert Parker were half the man Spenser is he would have sent his great fictional creation to the Reichenbach Falls years ago.  Instead Parker keeps dragging Spenser to new locales, hoping, perhaps, that a change of scenery will rejuvemate him.  In &quot;Potshot&quot; the new locale is a small town in Arizona named, by coincidence, Potshot.  Parker's travel ploys don't work because his ability to create a sense of place seems to diminish when he gets beyond the Boston beltway.  Mostly what he tells the reader about Arizona is that it is hot.<br />    Potshot, &quot;Once a rendevous for mountain men&quot;, according to Spenser's client, is now a retreat for yuppies from Los Angeles.  It is situated vaguely in the foothills of a mountain range Parker has relocated from Idaho to Arizona.  The town's new residents are being shaken down and harassed by a large gang of old hippies and bikers, led by a cadaverous &quot;Preacher&quot;, who occupy an old mine site in a higher neighboring valley called &quot;the Dell&quot;.  The Dell -- for God's sake, Parker -- the Dell??  Heigh-ho the derry-oh the outlaws in the dell.  The Dell bears a passing resemblance to the Hole In The Wall, the bandit hideout in central Wyoming. The town fathers of Potshot need a gunslinger and they find one in Spenser.<br />    Having borrowed scenery from all over the west, Parker has Spenser recruit six ill-assorted tough guys from his earlier books to help him deal with the Preacher and his forty thieves.  Is this an ill-conceived homage to &quot;Seven Samurai&quot; and &quot;The Mangificent Seven&quot; or just another piece of magpie borrowing?  Sadly, despite impressive slaughter, the effect of the big shootout is more comic than epic.  Spenser throws himself behind conveniently-placed rocks and brush, firing his lever-action Winchester like a hero in an old Republic Pictures western.<br />    There are hints of a more serious story glinting amid the cow pies in &quot;Potshot&quot;.  Development vs preservation:  The real evil in Potshot is real estate speculation.  New settlers in the mountain West vs the old residents.  One of the hippy banditos tells Spenser, &quot;We wuz here first&quot;.  The spread of urban gangs into lightly-policed rural communities.  But Parker is too busy propping tired old Spenser up to mine these possibilities.  I think Robert Parker needs a new voice rather than new venues for his writing.  It is time to let wisecracking, quixotic Spenser take his place among the heros in Valhalla.	2001-10-16
US	51729554	R1MXI52HCID3W4	0066210844	226416014	The Archer's Tale (The Grail Quest, Book 1)	Books	4	80	84	N	N	A medieval replacement for Sharpe	With &quot;The Archer's Tale&quot; Bernard Cornwell transports his readers to the mid 13th century and the start of the Hundred Years War.  His replacement for Richard Sharpe is Thomas of Hookton, an archer in the army  of Edward III.  <br />We learn in the prologue that Thomas is the illegitimate son of the Hookton parish priest, an educated man of mysterious noble origins.  Thomas learns Latin and French from his father (which is puzzling because we find out later that the priest's native tongue is langue d'Oc) and archery from his maternal grandfather. French pirate overrun Hookton killing everyone except Thomas. They are led by the priest's nephew who wants   an important relic his uncle has hidden in the Hookton church.<br />Thomas then joins the King's army in order to find and take revenge on the man who massacred his family and his town. Like Sharpe, Thomas soon comes to the attention of a powerful historical figure, the Earl of Northhampton.  He also has Sharpe's knack of making deadly enemies of the venal and the villainous -- in this case a knight who serves in the Earl's command.  Two women of noble status play key roles in Thomas' life as he fights his way from Brittany to Normandy and into France.  The climax of the book is the battle of Crecy.<br />&quot;The Archer's Tale&quot; is filled with the wealth of historical detail that gave the Sharpe series its air of authenticity.  The reader learns the minutae of using the English longbow in battle, about life in a medieval army, and about medieval life in general.  Lest I give the wrong impression, the book is stuffed with plenty of exciting, gory, mayhem too.  Thomas is an altogether worthy replacement for Sharpe.  His intriguing antecedants and his secret quest promise further adventure.	2001-10-15
US	51729554	R1ZDKUXPR83ZLX	0345405404	144974062	Eleanor of Aquitaine: A Life	Books	5	5	6	N	N	In Search of the Historic Eleanor	Alison Weir has written a solid, workmanlike biography of Eleanor of Aquitaine, a figure of controversy and legend in her own time, and an icon of romantic literature ever since. And small wonder! She inherited one of Europe's richest and most populous duchies, was the wife of two kings and mothered two kings and two queens, went on the second crusade dressed as an amazon, spent a decade imprisoned by her second husband, and at other times served as royal administrator of England and various portions of the Angevin continental empire. Not until Elizabeth did the western world see another women who played such a prominent role in world affairs.<br /> Weir casts herself as a revisionist, seeking to offer &quot;...a credible and balanced account, stripped of the myths, suppositions, and misunderstandings that have obscured the real Eleanor of Aquitaine, in both the distant and recent past.&quot; Most of her targets, seem to me, to fall into the &quot;distant&quot; category -- writers of the 13th through the 19th century. However, in at least two important areas, Weir does depart from the consensus of contemporary historians and writers. One is in the matter of the &quot;Court of Love&quot; which Eleanor was supposed to have established at Poitiers after she separated from Henry II. Weir contends that although Eleanor may have &quot;encouraged troubadours and poets to come to her court&quot;, the notion of a tribunal presided over by the queen and some of her noble kinswomen where young men and women brought disputes on matters of courtly love was &quot;a literary conceit invented...by Andreas Capellanus...&quot;. The other distinctly revisionist position Weir stakes out is on Henry's affair with Rosamund de Clifford. She thinks Rosemund was not the very important figure in Henry's life than poets and other historians have made her. There is no evidence that Rosamund, only one of a string of Henry's mistresses, caused the split between Henry and Eleanor. Nor is it likely that Henry tried to have his marriage to Eleanor annulled in order to marry Rosamund, because she had entered a nunnery before he initiated the effort. And finally Weir states flatly that Eleanor could not have murdered Rosamund or ordered her murdered, for Eleanor was herself being held incommunicado by Henry at the time of Rosamund's death.<br /> The effect of Weir's rigorous stripping of myth and supposition is to emphasize how little we really know about Eleanor. Through the early years of both her marriages, the birth of children is the primary record of her existence. Many years pass with no contemporary mention of what she was doing or even where she was. We don't know, for example, exactly where she spent most of her years of confinement at the hand of Henry II. Only late in Henry's reign and in those of Richard I and John, when she was entrusted with administrative duties and delicate missions of diplomacy, does the historic Eleanor emerge from the shadows.<br /> One &quot;myth&quot; that Weir does give credence to is Eleanor's alleged adulteries -- with Geoffrey of Anjou (Henry's father)while married to Louis VII and with her uncle Raymond of Poitiers while married to Henry. Weir relies on Giraldus Cambrensis who claimed to have been told about the first by Bishop Hugh of Lincoln who heard it directly from Henry. At the time Giraldus wrote his slander, Henry was trying to get his marriage to Eleanor annulled and may have been spreading the story to provide legal support to his case. Weir says &quot;It is unlikely that Henry would have lied about the affair to the respected Bishop Hugh&quot;. Yet elsewhere she quotes Giraldus as saying Henry &quot;readily broke his word&quot; when it suited him. The proof of the second adultery is even less substantial, inferred from a veiled contemporary reference to uncle and niece being &quot;too close&quot;. In context, the comment could as likely refer to political affairs as to sexual.<br /> I have some other minorquibbles with Weir's pose as champion of credibility and debunker of legend. In describing Henry's ancestry, she says &quot;The Angevins were a handsome race.&quot; In the first place, such language smacks more of Tennyson and Kipling than of a modern historian, and in the second place she tells us elsewhere that there are no realistic representations of any Roal visage prior to the 13th century. I also find it odd that she gives such prominence to predictions made by Bernard of Clairvaux (who was a veritable fount of maledictions) and other clerics about the dire fate that would befall those who did not heed their advice. Some, like the early demise of Geoffrey of Anjou came true immediately while another regarding the extinction of the Plantagenets was delayed for 300 years. One wonders if David McCullough would bother to mention the predictions of Jean Dixon in a biography of JFK.	2001-10-10
US	51729554	R2QSQ725LQDVBI	0060193611	112419171	The Map That Changed the World: William Smith and the Birth of Modern Geology	Books	5	7	10	N	N	The tragic story of &quot;The Father of Geology&quot;	Simon Winchester demonstrated with &quot;The Professor and the Madman&quot;, his skill at finding stories in cobwebbed corners of 19th Century British history that catch the popular interest. He has done it again with &quot;The Map That Changed the World&quot;. It tells the story of William Smith, a seemingly unremarkable man who made one of the most remarkable and important scientific breakthroughs in the 19th century. Smith was an even less likely vessel for genius than the Swiss patent office employee who, a century later, intuited the relationship between energy and matter. He was born the son of an Oxfordshire blacksmith, attended no university, and earned his livelihood as a surveyor, coal mining engineer, and drainer of bogs. But while working in coal mines south of Bath in the 1790's, he made an intellectual leap as great as that of Einstein. Smith observed that the sedimentary layers of the rock formations in every mine shaft that he visited lay upon one another in the same sequence. What followed from that observation forever changed the way men searched for coal, gold, oil, and other minerals. The inductive jump Smith made from his observations was even more revolutionary, for it overturned the prevailing veiw of our planet's age. Most natural scientist of the late 18th century were gentlemanly dilettantes who collected fossils, but tacitly accepted Bishop Usher's dating of the earth's birth as having taken place on Oct 27th, 4004 BC. Smith saw that his fossil-bearing &quot;stratifications&quot; provided a means for studying an earth that was far more than 6000 years old. One might think that Smith would have been heaped with honors and rewards for his discoveries, but his hubris and his lack of social and academic status doomed him as surely as any tragic hero of fiction. Just as Smith's obsessive twenty-year effort to map the sub-surface landscape of Britain was coming to fruition in 1815, he was thrown into debtor's prison. After his release, he spentyears as an itinerant workman in Yorkshire. Only in his final years was Smith belatedly hailed as the &quot;Father of Geology&quot; by the British scientific establishment. Winchester does a masterful job of bringing William Smith to life and in making the reader care as passionately about Smith's fate as if he were a character on &quot;The Sopranos&quot;. In the process, Winchester shows us the topography of British society at the beginning of the industrial revolution.	2001-08-25
US	51729554	R39DCIXNUWEDFL	0802733573	376154080	Ex-Libris: A Novel	Books	3	6	8	N	N	The Means Do Not Justify the End	Ex-Libris is a fascinating and ultimately frustrating gothic novel about books.  Ross King overwhelms the reader with a wealth of bibliophilic minutiae, parallel plots, and loads of historical detail only to conclude his story with a denouement that would be embarrassing to a supermarket romance.  His intentions may have been honorable, but his literary judgement is suspect.<br />The best thing about the novel is its invocation of a time when writing books and owning books was dangerous business.  One of the plots unfolds as the Thirty Years' War is breaking out and both Catholics and Protestants are busily burning books as well as one another.  The second plot (really the main one, alas) concerns a Restoration London bookseller named Isaac Inchbold.  Inchbold is hired by a mysterious noblewomen to locate an ancient manuscript called &quot;The Labyrinth of the World&quot;, part of the &quot;Corpus Hermeticum&quot; supposedly written by the greatest of Egyptian scholars.  Three black-garbed figures appear in both plots, killing everyone who becomes involved with the manuscript. Galileo, Alchemy, the Rosicrucians, the library of Rudolph of Bohemia, Sir Walter Raleigh's voyage to the Orinoco, and the riddle of longitude all figure in the story.	2001-08-18
US	51729554	R2HF4NJ4B21MBQ	0892966319	667340944	Death of a Dustman (Hamish Macbeth Mysteries, No. 17)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Seventeenth Variation on a Highland Theme	Fergus Macleod, the dustman (garbage collector)in Police Sergeant Hamish Macbeth's village of Lockdubh, is a drunk and a wife-beater. When Fergus is promoted to &quot;environmental engineer&quot; by an ambitious member of the County Council he becomes so officious that soon half the village is  threatening to kill him. Someone does and stuffs his corpse into one of his own dustbins. Hamish soon discovers that several people, including his own constable, had additional reasons to wish Macleod dead. Then a local crofter is murdered too. Hamish must solve these crimes while preserving his neighbors' guilty (but irrelevant) secrets.<br />M C Beaton writes classic British murder mysteries in the tradition of Dorothy Sayers, Agatha Christie, and Ngaio Marsh. It is a genre as stylized as the sonnet or the minuet -- yet capable of infinite variation. Few readers will anticipate all the plot twists Beaton has composed for this, her seventeenth Hamish Macbeth mystery. Hamish does not possess an over-abundance of &quot;little gray cells&quot; like Hercule Poirot, nor upper class connections like Roderick Allyn. But he does know his Highlander neighbors intimately and always manages to ferret out the truth ahead of the detectives sent out from headquarters. Beaton laces her stories with generous dollops of broad, black comedy; often at the expense of her sleuth, Macbeth.<br />My only quibble with &quot;Death of a Dustman&quot; is that Beaton makes one character hide a crucial piece of information from Macbeth (and from the reader) on the flimsiest of pretexts until just before the climax of the book. One of the rules of the classic mystery is that the author must scatter all the clues needed to solve the puzzle so a canny reader can beat the fictional detective to the soluction.	2001-08-12
US	51729554	R3PJOSXR7VXGAQ	0385334834	51290485	Writ of Execution	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Badly Writ	I found little to like in &quot;Writ of Execution&quot; by the O'Shaughnessy sisters.  Even though one of them is a highly-credentialed lawyer, the story is built on a legal premise so farfetched that it defies belief and is powered by a monumental coincidence.  Mix this with trite dialogue and continuing characters who are as one-dimensional as sit-com creations and you have a recipe for a yawner.<br />Jesse Potter's husband, Dan, a graduate student at University of Hawaii, is stricken with a mysterious recurring illness while they are kayaking off Oahu and drowns.  Her powerful father-in-law, who opposed his son's marriage to a dark-skinned US Marine, believes Jesse caused Dan's death.  Unable to get the police interested, he hounds her out of her apartment and out of the Marine Corps. He then files a wrongful death suit(a la O J Simpson) against her, which Jesse knows nothing about for she has fled back to the Lake Tahoe area where she was born.  The reader is asked to believe that a court in Hawaii would hear such a case without any defendant or defense attorney present and then award an eight-million dollar judgement to Potter Senior without the slightest evidence of wrongdoing on Jesse's part being produced.<br />As luck (and the plot) would have it, Jesse wins a seven-million dollar jackpot in a South Tahoe Casino.  Lawyer Nina Reilly and her sidekicks ride to her assistance, but mayhem and murder ensue.  The measure of how askew this story is that the reader is left with the strong impression that the most despicable character in the book is not the muderer, but Nina's nemesis, lawyer Jeff Reisner.	2001-08-11
US	51729554	R16X0MGI5AV3AQ	0684855453	549071321	Vineyard Shadows : A Martha's Vineyard Mystery	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Shades of Spenser	Philip Craig's &quot;Vineyard Shadows&quot; is a pleasant piece of summer reading for mystery lovers.  His protagonist, J W Jackson is a retired Boston cop who has moved to Martha's Vineyard to fish and raise a family.  But trouble follows him.<br />Two Boston hoods threaten and assault JW's wife and daughter while he is off clamming.  They are looking for the husband of a woman to whom JW was once married.  It is their bad luck that Zee, JW's present wife is packing.  She was preparing to leave for the pistol range where she shoots competitively when they arrive.  Soon after, the man the hoods were looking for turns up on JW's doorstep seeking asylum.  JW decides he must find out what is going on in order to protect his own family and lend a helping hand to his ex-wife.<br />JW Jackson strikes me as a funnier, less pompous, domesticated relative of Robert Parker's Spenser.  He confronts the kingpin of the Charlston Irish Mafia, as Spenser would.  He milks old friends in law enforcement for information. Judged by the length of time it takes him to solve the central puzzle in the story, JW isn't as smart as Spenser -- or the average reader, for that matter.  But then he doesn't have a sidekick like Hawk.	2001-07-15
US	51729554	R2UNQ9S3HE2DOB	0399147195	469684331	P is for Peril : A Kinsey Millhone Mystery	Books	4	2	5	N	N	P is for perfect summer reading	This is the best Grafton mystery in several years. It is a &quot;two-fer&quot; in which the doughty PI, Kelsey Millhone, gets involved with two cases simultaneously in monsoon-struck Santa Theresa/Santa Barbara. The first case is a search for Dr Purcell, the missing physcian/administrator of a nursing home. The second involves missing jewels from a murder/robbery in Texas. There are so many plot twists that this reader utterly failed to solve the &quot;whodunit&quot; aspect of the book.<br />Kelsey is supported by her usual cast of friends: her 86 year-old landlord Henry, his older brother, William. who is married to the Hungarian tyrant of Rosie's Tavern, and lawyer Lonnie Kingman. One of Kelsey's former lovers, Jonah Robb, who is now head of Santa Theresa's homicide unit also plays a role in &quot;P is for Peril&quot;.<br />It is the new characters -- mostly women -- that make this Grafton book special. Fiona Purcell, Art Deco decorator, hires Kelsey to find her vanished ex-husband, but seems equally interested in digging up dirt about his current wife, Crystal. Crystal is a former Las Vegas stripper with a troubled teen-age daughter, Leila, (born out of wedlock) and a baby son born to Dr. Purcell. Bright, tough Mariah Talbot arrives from Texas to enmesh Kelsey in the attempt to locate some missing jewelry. Anica Blackburn is the guidance counselor at the Malibu boarding school where Leila is incarcerated. The only person Leila seems to relate to is her Santa Theresa street pal, Pauline. All six women are strong personalities, vividly drawn, that engage the reader's emotions in one way or another. For contrast there is handsome Tommy Hevener, co-owner of the new office Kelsey has leased, who has designs to make their relationship more intimate.<br />The only fault I have to find with this book -- and it is one shared by most contemporary mystery novels -- is that Grafton feels compelled to put Kelsey in mortal danger at the end of the story. The &quot;Cheap Thrills&quot; ending has become a cliche in the mystery genre. &quot;If it's good enough for Dick Francis, it's good enough for me&quot;, seems to be the prevailing notion. Classic mystery writers, even the hard-boiled ones like Chandler and Ross MacDonald, devised climaxes to their stories that did not necessarily involve the imminent death and dismemberment of their investigators in the final chapter. At least Grafton has made risk-taking an integral part of Kelsey Millhone's character.	2001-06-16
US	51729554	R1SPMH0W7PA3GT	0306810298	756495678	Zin: The History And Mystery Of Zinfandel	Books	1	7	21	N	N	A Retread From The Vineyard	Consumer beware!  This book is a tired retread masquerading as a shiny new model.  Darlington published the identical material (with a few minor changes) as &quot;Angels' Visits&quot; in 1991. As wine books go, it was a best-seller and received much attention among wine lovers. Except for a line of fine print on the copyright page &quot;Zin&quot; does not aknowlege its former life. &quot;Angels' Visits&quot; does not even appear on the list of Darlington's other published works in the front pages of &quot;Zin&quot;  The Author and/or his publisher seem bent on pawning this off as a new piece of work.<br />Let's list the differences:  &quot;Zin&quot; is a paperback published by De Capo Press while &quot;Angels' Visits&quot; was a hardback published by Henry Holt.  There is a different bottle of wine pictured on the label and the subtitle has been changed from &quot;An Inquiry Into The Mystery Of Zinfandel&quot; to &quot;The History And Mystery Of Zinfandel&quot;.  A new name has been added to the orginal two on the dedication page.  New press quotes have been added to the blurb page, but they come from reviews of &quot;Angels' Vists&quot; -- thus adding to the dishonesty of this publication.  The most substantive change is a four page &quot;epilogue&quot; which primarily updates the biography of winemaker Joel Peterson, who was the central figure in &quot;Angels' Visits&quot;.<br />Putting misleading publishing practices aside, Darlington's unbalanced &quot;history&quot; of Zinfandel has not aged well. It skims quickly from a New England nursery in 1830 to 1976 when Joel Peterson started Ravenswood Winery. Many high quality producers get scarecly a nod and only Petterson escapes Darlington's catty barbs.  A lot has happened on the Zinfandel scene since 1991 -- most of it more important to Zinfandel aficionados than the fact that Morgan Petterson is attending college in New York and working part time in a wine shop.	2001-06-14
US	51729554	RIA8008WY0A2I	0060199563	461879486	Thief of Time	Books	3	8	18	N	N	Wasted Time	&quot;Thief of Time&quot; was my third visit to Discworld and my first disappointment.  Pratchett's riffs on the subject of time do not show his usual comic panache.  He has jettisoned his standard cast of characters from Ankh-Morpork -- if there is such a thing as standard Pratchett characters -- in favor of a collection of unfunny semi-superhumans.  Death's granddaughter, the five horsemen of the Apocalypse, and the son of Time are arrayed against a host of extra-dimensional Auditors who want to catch time , not in a bottle, but in a glass clock.  We are meant to see it as a struggle of human individuality versus bureaucratic conformity with the future of Discworld at stake.  But &quot;Thief of Time&quot; fails to blend its jokes and satire smoothly with its Armageddon.  The result is closer to Dr Who than to Tolkien or the late Douglas Adams.<br />The central locus, if the story has one, is the monastery of Oi Dong where the History Monks keep time reeling smoothly between a graduated series of dredyls.  Pratchett's funniest characters are &quot;The Sweeper&quot;, a parody on all the unprepossessing, weirdly-wise martial arts masters from Kung Fu to Yoda, and his apprentice, Lobsang, formerly a member of the Thieve's Guild.  A stray Igor from Uberwald who is helping build the glass clock also chips in some sorely-needed humor.<br />Discworld, itself, seems to wobble in this story between its usual pre-industrial state and a more modern time.  There is talk of lathes, an exotic alloy invar, acid batteries, and chocolate truffles.  The currency alternates between pence and dollars.  Books abound in this incarnation of Discworld -- even though the printing press put in its first appearance in Pratchett's last book, &quot;The Truth&quot;.  I suppose Pratchett would attribute this inconsistency to a mis-calibrated time spool.<br />I have no quarrel with Pratchett exploring new literary turf, but in this novel he has gotten mired in some very sticky moralizing.	2001-06-02
US	51729554	R3MJBW74WFBSEU	1559636556	384559786	Inside Passage: A Journey Beyond Borders	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The Art of Zen Ecological Repair	Richard Manning takes his readers on a very interesting journey into a new terrain of environmentalism hinted at by his subtitle, &quot;A Journey Beyond Borders&quot;.  Traveling by sea kayak and light plane, as well as by land, he paints a grim picture of environmental degradation along the &quot;inside passage&quot; between Astoria Washington and Juneau Alaska.  At the same time he is pricking some of the hallowed sacred cows of the conservation establishment.  The primary focus of this book is on the decline of the salmon along the Pacific slope of North America.  In the process he explains its relationship to lumbering and dams.  He also takes a fast tour of the ecological ruin caused by the exponential growth of aquaculture around the Pacific Rim.  Manning describes himself as a science writer, but he excels at turning a mixture of personal observation, interviews, and historical data into a vivid picture of decline -- not only of the salmon and the forest -- but of the people who depended on them for a livelihood.<br />One of Manning's interesting conclusions is that, as the size and technological complexity of our food-producing and timber-harvesting efforts have increased, their efficiency has plummeted.  A modern rancher in Idaho, using large quantities of subsidized water and energy, cannot begin to match the protein production of the wild salmon that once teemed the rivers of his state.  His calves would have to grow into 50,000-pound cows in order to match the four-year weight gain of a wild salmon.  The salmon harvested the bounty of the sea and returned it to the land without any expenditure of fossil fuel.  Unfortunately, the salmon run in Idaho's Snake river has declined from 2,000,000 to less than 9,000 -- despite taxpayers spending, Manning says, &quot;$3 billion on a Rube Goldbergian scheme of hatcheries, fish ladders, and barges that give young salmon a ride past the dams.&quot;  We have traded a very efficient form of food production for a veryinefficient one.<br />Manning adds his voice to the growing chorus that argue that salmon hatcheries are not just inefficient but counterproductive.  The young hatchery salmon have a very low survival rate (100 return for each million released), but they still compete with remaining wild salmon for scarce resources in stream and ocean.  The kind of conservation Manning espouses is being practiced at a former salmon hatchery in Chinook Washington.  The local community took it over and has turned it into a center for long-term restoration not just of a wild salmon run, but also of the habitat in the clear-cut drainage around it.<br />Manning and his concept of borderless environmentalism is as radical as those who claim trees cause air pollution and Caspian terns are responsible for the decline in the Columbia salmon run.  He thinks that most well-intentioned protectors of &quot;wilderness&quot; from Theodore Roosevelt and Gifford Pinchot down to present-day conservationists have not adopted a sound strategy for presserving the environment.  His point is that when you draw a line around a piece of land to protect it from clear-cutting and strip mining you are tacitly accepting those practices everywhere else.  It also means that if one President has the power to protect an area like the Arctic Wildlife Refuge then another has the power to un-protect it.  Manning's solution is for everyone, everywhere, to walk more lightly upon the land every day and perhaps to lend some help to small scale preservation activities in their own back yard.  He reminds the reader that those areas of the west that we now revere as &quot;wilderness&quot; were occupied continuously by moderately-dense populations of human beings for ten thousand years before the coming of Lewis and Clark without any noticeable ecological damage.  The real message of &quot;Inner Passage&quot; is that we must each internalize environmentalism in the inner passages of our soul.<br />I enjoyed Mr. Manning's novel analysis of the serious ecological problems outlined in this book and I admire his faith in a utopian soluction, but I don't share that faith.  Too many of the people who conscientiously lend their effort and money to worthwhile enviromental causes still drive SUV's home to their 6000 sqaure-ft starter castles and a dinner of farm-raised prawns.	2001-05-28
US	51729554	RHIE89Q0II6HT	0151005214	247759837	The Peppered Moth	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Drabble Squabbles	Thirty years ago a friend who taught English Lit at a Catholic women's college in the Boston suburbs opined that Margaret Drabble was the best novelist then writing in the English language!  &quot;The Needle's Eye&quot; and &quot;The Realms of Gold&quot; failed to convice me of the validity of his assessment then and &quot;The Peppered Moth&quot; does nothing to convince me now.  In the early days of feminism, Drabble did write interestingly about young well-educated British women struggling to find self-realization.  The early portion of the &quot;Peppered Moth&quot; led me to think that she might be tackling more universal themes these days: free will vs predestination or heredity vs environment.  Alas, that turned out to be only window-dressing for an even narrower focus -- Drabble's relationship with her own mother.<br />The story opens in the chapel of a Midlands mining town where a DNA researcher is collecting samples from a large group of Cudworth family members whose ancestral roots are in the grimy coal towns of southern Yorkshire.  His purpose is to establish whether any of them are matrilineal descendants of a 9,000 year old skeleton found in a cave nearby.  This is a thinly-camouflaged retelling of the discovery by DNA researchers that a history teacher in Somerset is a direct descendant of a neolithic skeleton found a few miles away in the Cheddar Gorge.<br />Faro Gaulden, great granddaughter of Ellen Cudworth Bawtry, attends that meeting to contribute her DNA sample and to write about the project for the magazine that employs her.  Faro's grandmother, Bessie Bawtry Barron, escaped from the coal dust by winning a scholarship to Cambridge University.  Bessie is the most carefully drawn character in the book and, undoubtedly, is the &quot;peppered moth&quot; of the title.  Drabble tells us that Peppered Moths are poster insects for modern Darwinians. In Britain's industrial Midlands the moth has evolved a darker coloration to match its sooty environment than have its cousins in less polluted southern counties.  Bessie marries another university-educated refugee from the coal towns who becomes a prosperous barrister.  But they do not live happily ever after.  Her daughter, Chrissie, who is Faro's mother, is the fictional stand-in for Drabble, herself.<br />With genetic DNA and Darwinian adaptation looming over things, one expects startling disclosures and the clash of profound ideas.  Instead we are asked to witness a posthumous family squabble.  Dora, Bessie's sister, is also fully realized, but the other characters are unplausible cardboard cutouts.  I was also put off by Drabble's authorial intrusions into the narrative, but I enjoyed the way she still plays with language.	2001-05-26
US	51729554	R2J1LEJMFVRYK3	0670892920	665614535	Treason by the Book	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Whodunit from 18th Century China	&quot;Treason by the Book&quot;, by Yale historian Jonathan D Spence, is my early candidate for the 2001 Pulitzer Prize for History.  It is a slim jewel of a book about the investigation and prosecution for treason of a rustic scholar by the third emperor of the Manchu dynasty.  Spence's book is so many-faceted that it is hard to summarize -- reflecting backward to the very origins of Chinese culture and forward into our own time.  It sheds light on the nature of Chinese government and society in the early 18th century, relates a police-procedural story worthy of Ed MacBain, and tells the story of a book coauthored by an emperor and a traitor.  &quot;Treason by the Book is essentially a book about the power of words -- those written down and preserved and those spread by gossip and rumor that harden into myth.<br />The story begins in 1728 when the Governor General of a remote province is handed a letter by a stranger which contains a denunication of the Manchu emperor, Yongzheng.  The writer, calling himself &quot;Summer Calm&quot;, urges General Yue to &quot;rise in revolt&quot; and stop serving a &quot;bandit ruler&quot;.  &quot;The barbarians(Manchurians) are different species from us (Chinese)...[and]  should be driven out&quot;.  The letter goes on to accuse the emperor of plotting against his parents, murdering several of his brothers, piling up material wealth, and living a debauched life.  It praises a scholar, identified as &quot;Master of the Eastern Sea&quot; who has upheld the ideals of earlier times.<br />General Yue, though Chinese, is a loyal official of the &quot;bandit ruler&quot;.  He arrests the messenger, tortures and interrogates him to find out more about the conspiracy hinted at in the letter.  His report to the emperor sets off an imperial investigation involving hundreds of officials in many provinces.  Through detective work worthy of a modern police state, they net everyone connected to the messenger and, no matter how remotely, to &quot;Summer Calm&quot;, a rural teacher whose real name in Zeng Jing.  The roundup also includes the family, friends and former students of a poet-scholar name Lu Liuliang, the &quot;Master of the Eastern Ocean&quot; who has been dead for forty years.  Not even dead poets can escape the long arm of a Chinese emperor.<br />One is awed by the efficiency of the Manchu emperor's administrative control over his vast country -- exercised through his Confucian-trained bureaucracy and a communication system unmatched in the west until the advent of the railroad.  At about the same time Louis XIV's Intendants were just beginning to challenge the hereditary nobles for administrative control of the French provinces and the Hanoverians in Britain, a new alien dynasty like the Manchus, had no professional administrators.  The British civil service, that would rule an empire greater than Yongzheng's, was a century in the future.<br />Under interrogation, Zeng Jing confessed that the &quot;conspiracy&quot; was mostly in his head, germinated by his reading of Lu Liuliang and nutured by gossip about the emperor he heard from a mysterious scholar named Wang Shu who had visited his schoolhouse six years earlier.  After Zeng had been tried and convicted, the emperor decided that clearing his own reputation was a more important matter than executing a misguided slanderer.  Zeng, he announced, was just a dupe of literary troublemakers like Lu Liuliang. To set record straight, the emperor published a 500 page book titled &quot;Awakening from Delusion&quot; Containing his own critque of the Zeng letter, an attack on the writings of Lu, and -- strangest of all -- a series of written exchanges between himself and Zeng Jing regarding the allegations of the letter.  Zeng Jing confessed his errors of &quot;understanding&quot; abjectly, but in the process argued for land reform, more equitable distribution of wealth, and local &quot;selection&quot; of officals.  The emperor made an enlightened argument for tolerance in a multi-ethnic nation.  Both based their reasoning on the writings of Confucius and earlier scholars.  Hundreds of thousands of copies of &quot;Awakening&quot; were printed and distributed throughout the empire together with imperial orders that it was to be read at bi-monthly public gatherings.<br />Neither of the principals lived to see the ironic conclusion of the decade-long affair.  Nor could they have imagined that three hundred years later a &quot;barbarian&quot; scholar would use their story as a mirror in which his readers can study the reflection of their own times.	2001-05-15
US	51729554	R149Z45RPTHSG3	0679463321	565707898	Killing Time	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Caleb Carr Fails at Space Opera	My first reaction to &quot;Killing Time&quot; was that this terminally silly book must be a put-on. More forgiving reviewers call it an homage to Jules Verne and HG Wells. If it is an homage to anything it is the old Republic Pictures serials like Buck Rogers and the Purple Monster from Mars that once-upon-a-time ran before the horse operas at Saturday matinees. Carr, himself, says he started the project as a serial for Time Magazine.<br />It is demeaning to Verne's and Wells' imaginative books about the future they foresaw to be compared to this creaking collection of &quot;space opera&quot; cliches. The characters are comic book figures, the dialogue is trite, and the plot is preposterous. I will concede that blaming everything from third-world poverty, to environmental degradation, to the corporate take-over of the US Government on the Internet is a novel idea, but Carr has failed to build a credible novel upon it.<br />The story has a band of scientific merry pranksters roaming the globe in an invisible, invulnerable &quot;airship&quot; trying to right the wrongs done by corrupt governments through the use of elaborate disinformation hoaxes. I believe the idea is that this will teach people not to believe anything they hear or read. They are led by genetically-altered siblings named Tressalian, who coincidentally have silvery alien tresses. The narrator is a New York psychiatrist-profiler they enlist to help them predict whether their little stunts ... will have the desired effect. ...	2001-05-04
US	51729554	R1MPJZ2VJSYGZX	0792276876	318427180	Yonder: A Place in Montana (Adventure Press)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Montanamania	&quot;Yonder&quot; (subtitled &quot;A Place in Montana&quot;) by John Hemingway is an untidy book, but one I still recommend to readers interested in the west. Hemingway is an expert on Africa, a producer of documentary films for PBS, a writer, and a Montana &quot;hobby rancher&quot;. Noel Perrin used the phrase &quot;hobby farmer&quot; to identify people who buy farms in Vermont in order to feel connected with the soil and the hardy Yankee yoemen who till it, but who continue to derive most of their income from some other source. The book relates Hemingway's experiences after he and members of his family purchase first a ranch in central Montana and then a 36-acre mountain retreat, named the Bar 20, north of Yellowstone Park. He interweaves events and observations from his own life in Montana with his search for information about the previous owners of the Bar 20.<br />One of the pleasures of the book is Hemingway's gift for vivid word snapshots of people he encounters in Montana. His filmaker's eye rests briefly on organic rancher Tom Elliott, BLM archeologist Michael Kyte, outfitter Larry Lahren, horse whisperer Ray Hunt, ranch foreman Floyd Cowles, teepee manufacturer Don Ellis, and his motley neighbors in the Boulder River valley. The sketches are illuminations of ordinary lives rather than (a la Annie Proulx) a lepidopterological display of &quot;characters&quot;. The book's other strength is the mini-biography of Stanley and Bab Cox, easterners like Hemingway, who owned the Bar 20 from 1933 to 1951 and who, unlike Hemingway, resided there continuously except for the war years. Hemingway's determined and ingenious research has unearthed a story worthy of a novel.<br />&quot;Yonder&quot;, published by the National Geographic Society Adventure Press, is the worst-edited book I have encountered in some time. It is rife with typos: missing quotation marks, uncapitalized proper names, &quot;souh&quot; for &quot;south&quot;, &quot;there's&quot; for &quot;theirs&quot;, &quot;Yate's&quot; for &quot;Yates'&quot;, &quot;shooting match&quot; for &quot;shouting match&quot;, and a missing negative that turns a sentence about organic farming into nonsense. It is also guilty of dubious or incorrect word usage. Examples: three sheets of paper become in the next paragraph three sheaves of paper; a hinged bookcase hiding a door is called &quot;trompe l'oeil&quot;. And what is one to make of this sentence? &quot;While grounds for abandoning a six-year-old child seem inconceivable, we can speculate he justified his decision because, perhaps, he felt rejected by the Hydes, who clearly had never warmed to a man they regarded as a diffident provider, husband, and father.&quot;<br />Hemingway grafts a couple of self-contained essays (previously published articles?) onto the stalk of his narrative. They deal with native American activities in other parts of the state and artist Winold Reiss. These are interesting in their own right, but anti-climatictic after the drama of the Cox research. <br />&quot;Yonder&quot; will save future owners of the Bar 20 the trouble of playing detective in order to find out what John Hemingway was doing and thinking during his days in Montana.	2001-05-01
US	51729554	R3OB5OKX0M4UN9	0871137801	87068632	The Three Roosevelts: Patrician Leaders Who Transformed America	Books	5	52	54	N	N	Profiles in Leadership	One of the pleasures of reading &quot;The Three Roosevelts&quot; by James MacGregor Burns and Susan Dunn is that it reminds us of a time when this country achieved great things under great leaders.  During the presidency of Republican Theodore Roosevelt the federal government challenged the activities of powerful, unregulated industries, protected the health and rights of working people, protected consumers from contaminated food and unsafe drugs, and built the Panama Canal.  Democrat Franklin Delano Roosevelt oversaw the building of monumental dams and bridges that serve us still, created the Social Security system, and led the country effectively through the worst war the world has seen.  Eleanor Roosevelt mobilized the conscience of her country and of the world on important issues of social justice after her husband and uncle had left the stage. It is chilling to contemplate how the world would look today had they not played the transforming roles they did.<br />The book is really a hybrid -- part biography and part political history.  At times, it is organized, like &quot;My Six Crises&quot;, around specific problems i.e. FDR and Court-packing, TR and the trusts, rather than according to chronological order. This synthesis limits details of the personal lives of the three in order to fill in eighty years' worth of historical context.  Burn, emeritus historian of Williams College, has written two previous works on FDR.  Dunn is Professor of the History of Ideas at Williams and has written about the French Revolution. The book's purpose, they say, is to examine how these three, members of a patrician family and a privileged class, became great &quot;transformational leaders&quot; of the 20th century.<br />The book is very good at showing the steps in that process, but less good at explaining where the interior compass came from that guided those steps.  For example, TR at Harvard wrote his mother for information on the families of fellow students in order to makesure they were people of the right sort.  Yet just six years later he was hobnobbing with cigar-chomping party hacks in a Republican club above a Manhattan saloon. &quot;He aspired to be a hero in an age without heroes&quot;, conclude the authors.  Undoubtedly true, but insufficient to explain what led him from the Porcellian Club and the slopes of San Juan Hill to battles for social legislation like the Pure Food and Drug Law and the Employers' Liability Law.<br />The introduction of the book suggests the Roosevelts took Lincoln as their model.  This connects to the authors' concept of &quot;trasformational leadership&quot; and &quot;transformational politics&quot; as practiced by great leaders.  But tracing a philsophical thread from Lincoln to TR's foreign policy and trust-busting is quite a stretch. TR compared himself to Lincoln in being a &quot;cautious radical&quot;.  The authors' make a much stronger case, it seems to me, for FDR having used TR, rather than Lincoln, as a role model.  They say he consciously set out to follow in TR's footsteps: from Groton and Harvard to the New York Legislature, Department of the Navy, Governorship of New York, and the White House.  Lincoln doesn't figure obviously, either, in Eleanor Roosevelt's transformation from anti-Semitic society matron to  &quot;First Lady of the World&quot;.  It seems to have been her frequent contacts with the underprivileged during her White House years, well-documented by the authors, that transformed her world view.  When she waded through ankle-deep mud to speak with &quot;bonus army&quot; veterans at their encampment, both she and they gained new perspective.  &quot;Hoover sent the Army&quot;, said one of men, &quot;Roosevelt sent his wife&quot;.  ER did not go just where her husband directed, but where her expanding conscience dictated.<br />Burns and Dunn have incorporated current academic research    into their book.  They draw a connection between FDR's &quot;lurch to the left&quot; in 1935 and the popularity of radical economic ideas espoused by Huey Long, Father Coughlin, and Dr. Townsend.  They give details of the FDR-Lucy Mercer affair -- a topic Burns called &quot;rumormongers' gossip&quot; in his 1956 biography of FDR.  <br />One place where they differ radically from the mainstream of historical scholarship is in their contention that FDR was more radical in his final year than at any other time in his presidency. They call it his &quot;last hundred days&quot;. To support this thesis, they point to his last State of the Union address which, like Lincoln's second inaugural, looked beyond the end of the war to ways to improve a nation at peace.  He proclaimed an economic &quot;second Bill of Rights&quot;.  Earlier, in 1944, he explored with Wendel Wilkie the possibility of uniting liberals in both parties, but the idea died with Wilkie a few months later. FDR vetoed a tax bill as being &quot;not for the needy, but for the greedy&quot;.  He pushed the GI Bill of Rights through Congress.  He pressed for the establishment of the IMF. He was exercising &quot;transformational leadership&quot; in the international arena by trying at Yalta to win the support of Stalin and Churchill for a strong United Nations. An amazing list of progressive accomplishments for a healthy, vigorous President -- much less a dying one. <br />The final section of the book deals briefly with Eleanor Roosevelt's energetic last two decades as a &quot;world politician&quot;. She wrote a regular newspaper column, pressed the State Dept to recognize Israel, served as UN envoy, attacked Sen. McCarthy at the height of his power, used her name and money to support early civil rights efforts, participated in Democratic national politics, traveled the globe, and even found time to form an emotional attachment to Dr. David Gurewitsch.  The authors say that her most enduring achievement was chairing the committee that drafted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and then in leadingthe fight for its enactment by the UN. A work that, Thirty years after her death, &quot;still stands at the center of the planet's moral conscience&quot;.	2001-04-22
US	51729554	R12IEF9N1EMLRX	0312199317	13982957	Investigations of Avram Davidson	Books	4	5	5	N	N	delicacies from a well-stocked pantry	The late Avram Davidson is well-represented by this collection edited by his former wife, Grania Davis, and Richard Lupoff.  I have previously read and thought of Davidson as a science fiction writer, but this book demonstrates that he was a master of the mystery as well.  In fact, these stories transcend their genre and desearve to be praised in the broader context of short story literature.  The 13 stories were originally published between 1964 and 1992.<br />While the primary locale for the stories is his native New York City, Davidson also uses New England, Memphis, Cyprus, &quot;La Banana&quot; and Mexico. They range back in time as far as the 1840's. More remarkable than their diverse settings, though, is how economically Davidson creates a sense of time, place, and mood -- with a just a handful of descriptive wordstrokes. The heat in a chinese laundry becomes palpable when Davidson describes a washman wiping his hands and bare torso before he folds an ironed shirt so that his persperation won't drip on the garment.<br />Few of the stories' twists are predictable -- even for an old mystery hand. I finished each story smiling at the inventiveness of the plot and enriched by the esoteric pieces of information (like the origins of and differences between sea island and nanking cotton) that dot Davidson's writing like raisins in a scone.	2001-04-20
US	51729554	R1GBIV0STPR5CZ	038550120X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Grisham Paints a Pretty Story	This charming fairy tale is a dramatic departure from Grisham's previous work -- not just because it contains nary a lawyer. The narrator is 7 year old Luke Chandler who lives with his parents and grandparents on a rented eighty acre cotton farm near Black Rock, Arkansas. It is a place so idyllic that it bears comparison to Camelot or Middle Earth. The main divisions in the town, according to Grisham, are not along racial, economic, or political lines, but rather between Baptists and Methodists and between supporters of the St Louis Cardinals and the Chicago Cubs. Luke tells us there are no black people living around Black Rock.<br />Black Rock is preparing for the 1952 cotton harvest. Migrant workers arrive from the Ozarks and from Mexico. A family of hill people, the Spruills, and ten Mexican men take up residence at the Chandler farm to pick cotton. Over the next six weeks Luke finds plenty to worry about and learns a great deal more about life than he wants to. His uncle is fighting in Korea. He learns his family desperately needs a good cotton harvest. He witnesses Hank Spruill beating a local bully to death. Cowboy, one of the Mexicans, carries a switchblade and starts spending time with Hank's sister. Grisham knows that even a fairy tale needs suspense.<br />With a couple of obvious exceptions, everyone in &quot;A Painted House&quot; is good-hearted. Luke's mother and other ladies of the town worry that the Mexicans were transported from Mexico in open trucks rather than buses. (That alone puts Black Rock in a different space-time continium than contemporary America) The owners of the cotton gin and the local grocery store extend credit with un-Snopes-like prodigality -- even to the Mexicans. The Chandlers' landlord may not get his rent, but doesn't threaten to foreclose. Luke's mother's garden, a veritable cornucopia, yields enough tomatoes, sweet corn, onion, okra, butter beans, grean beans, and peas to provision the Chandlers, their workers, and a share-cropping neighbor family of nine with all they can eat. One can't help but be struck by the contrast between this rural Eden and the new south Grisham has depicted in his other novels.<br />It came as a suprise to me that the locale Grisham uses for &quot;A Painted House&quot; actually exists in northeastern Arkansas. Black Rock is in Mississippi County and Jonesboro, which figures in the story, is its county seat. Highway 135 does indeed constitute Black Rock's main street. But according to the 1950 US Census, nearly 30% of Mississippi County's population was black. Sometimes it's better not to know the way to Never Never Land.	2001-03-23
US	51729554	RF7VAZZ7WJQFS	0618048928	393747315	The Blood Runs Like a River Through My Dreams	Books	4	5	13	N	N	An Interesting Collage	This book is a collage of vignettes rather than a memoir.  I did not find it &quot;mesmerizing, apocalyptic, achingly beautiful and redemptive...&quot; as a blurb writer and other reviewers did.  Mr NASDIJJ tells some interesting stories: An indian rodeo star dying of AIDS; hiking the &quot;Long Walk&quot; trail of the Navajos; living homeless in a Forest Service campground; helping perform a symbolic amputation on a statue of a brutal Conquistador.       Some of NASDIJJ's writing is very moving, as when he writes about his adopted indian son who had severe Fetal Alcohol Syndrome and died at age six.  All of his writing is sentimental and a lot of it is selfserving.  None of it is chronological.  It is repetitive in a way that suggest that some sections were writtern as stand-alone stories.      I have a problem with seeming inconsistancies in the NASDIJJ persona presented in this &quot;memoir&quot;.  He was 50 when the book was published, but we get only a series of disconnected images -- mostly of other people -- instead of a record of his life. My gut tells me there is a lot of sham here.  He says his parents were poor migrant workers following the crops around the country -- both alcoholic -- his mother a Navajo and his father a &quot;cowboy&quot;.  But at 15, as a self-described school rebel, he is not working in the fields full-time as migrant children usually do, but rather hanging out at the local airport with a buddy who has already soloed in a light plane. He alludes to his own FAS learning disabilities, but he acquired the necessary credentials to teach in a &quot;suburban&quot; school.  According to his bio he has been writing seriously for more than 20 years &quot;making ends meet by reporting for small town newspapers..&quot; -- as if writing for small town newspapers were not serious writing. I'm willing to bet it wasn't as someone calling himself NASDIJJ.	2001-03-11
US	51729554	R3K822MRVAUVWD	0374221790	123443605	The Testament of Yves Gundron	Books	3	9	11	N	N	A Luddite Fable	Emily Barton sets her Luddite fable, &quot;The Testament of Yves Gundron&quot;, in Mandragona, an isolated section of one of the Hebrides Islands off Scotland's west coast. Farmer Yves Gundron, the narrator, lives in a society so primitive that when he invents a harness that allows his horse to pull a wagon or a plow without chocking to death it transforms his community. After Yves shares his invention with his neighbors farming in Mandragora quickly becomes more productive. Next Yves devises a two-wheeled cart to take advantage of the greater load-pulling capacity of the harnessed horse. Yves' neighbors attribute his inventiveness to his grandmother Iulia, a stranger who washed ashore from no-one-knows-where.<br />Yves' brother Mandrik is the only Mandragonian in memory to have ventured into the unknown world beyond -- and he returned a holy man bearing fruit trees and tales of Indo-China. The reader must accept the peculiar lack of curiosity Mandragonians have about the world outside their tiny fief as normal human behavior -- a heavy suspension-of-disbelief burden to bear. <br />Yves and his neighbors prosper through the increased produce they can grow and transport to market in Nnms, Mandragora's only town. (In Mandragora, farm surpluses are apparently absorbed more easily than elsewhere) Archduke Urbis of Nnms encourages the commerce by enlarging the market square and starting a road paving project. <br />It seems to be the dawn of a golden age. Then a stranger arrives from over the mountains -- the first new arrival since Yves'grandmother. Ruth is her name and she speaks a strange form of English and wears strange clothes. (Her C.V. is eerily similar to that of Ms. Barton, herself) Mandragora will never be the same again.<br />Thomas Pynchon's dust jacket blurb describes the story as &quot;Blessedly post-ironic...deeply respecting the given world even as it shines with the integrity of dream.&quot; Ms Barton may respect the given world of Yves Gundron, but I question whether she has had much familiarity with the hard, unending, physical labor and starvation diet of a subsistence farmer. The roseate hue of the lens through which Barton pictures the lives of the primitive farmers of Mandragona bespeaks an innocence of experience. Like Thomas Jefferson, she dreams of an agrarian utopia where &quot;the scythes sing through the rye&quot; -- in the hands of others.<br />Yves is an attractive creation -- a sort of stoic saint: devout -- and yet clear-eyed, inventive -- yet conservative, sensitive -- yet enduring. There are so many loose ends to this story one wonders if we will hear from him again.	2001-02-21
US	51729554	R2PZIPGMN2CANB	0060663715	848970811	Mormon America: The Power and the Promise	Books	4	27	37	N	N	A Millennium Study of a Native American Religion	Richard and Joan Ostling's &quot;Mormon America&quot; is a valuable addition to the growing shelf of books about the Chruch of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  I recommend it enthusiastically to those who want a single-volume survey that is both balanced and perceptive in its analysis of the LDS church and its members.  The main focus of the book is on the status of the church at the end of the millennium: its organization, leadership, finances, theology, worldwide growth, as well as its controversies.  Nevertheless the Ostlings include sufficient historical background, based on the latest research, to provide context for their portrait of the church as it is today.<br />That portrait began as a 1997 TIME magazine cover story written by Richard Ostling and Sam Gwynne.  They were permitted unprecedented access to top church officials.  The fruit of good interviewing and Gwynne's extensive research into church finances are two of the strengths of the book.  It is rich in quotes from LDS President George Hinckley and other church officials, but also contains enlightening comments by ordinary church members, missionaries in the Bronx, excommunicated dissidents, and officials of the splinter Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.  Ostling is a journalist who specializes in reporting on religion.  This shows in the book's broad perspective when, for example, it compares the LDS missionary program with those of Protestant denominations and the Roman Catholic church.<br />The Ostlings have done an excellent job of melding a concise history of the origins of the LDS religion and it 19th century travails into their depiction of it at the end of the 20th century.  As when they describe an intersection in Independence, Missouri where three competing branches of Mormonism have put up buildings on opposite corners to commemorate the site where Joseph Smith prophesied the second temple of Zion would be constructed in the last days.  This leads into a survey ofthe numerous claimants to Joseph Smith's role as prophet and the splinter organizations they founded.  Historical details illuminate the controversies that have swirled around the church from its inception to the present day, i.e. the sources of the Book of Mormon and the Book of Abraham, polygamy, the question of multiple gods in LDS theology, the Hoffman manuscript fraud, and the status of blacks, women and dissenters in the church.<br />In discussing historical events the Ostlings quote 19th century diaries and memoirs of church members, church records, and contemporary newspaper accounts -- drawn from the works of both Mormon and non-Mormon historians.  The current church interpretation of those events is also presented, when relevant.  Endnotes rather than footnotes are used to identify the sources used for each chapter.  There are appendices and a substantial bibliography for those seeking more information.   The book refers frequently to recently published work by the historians and researchers who had access to long-restricted church archives while working for Leonard J Arrington, official church historian 1972-82.  Several, like D Michael Quinn later published their controversial findings at great personal cost (excommunication and/or loss of teaching position).	2001-02-15
US	51729554	R3KVDYKD0GXAZ1	0316785644	658358380	The Fig Eater	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Freud Versus the Gypsies	&quot;The Fig Eater&quot;, by Jody Shields is the most interesting historical mystery I have read in some time.  It resembles &quot;The Alienist&quot;, but with darker shadows and greater ambiguities.  Set in the Vienna of 1910, it centers on the search for the murderer of Dora, the eighteen-year old daughter of a respectable  haut-bourgeois family.  She is also probably the famous &quot;Dora&quot; from Freud's case study of female hysteria, but that information is of no help in solving her fictional murder, except to alert us to the sexual overtones of the plot.  Shields evokes pre-WWI Vienna with sensuous descriptions of the food, dress and landscape.  She shows the diverse cultures, the ancient superstitions, and the new inventions that roiled this capital of an unraveling empire.<br />The Inspector (whose name we never learn) investigating the crime is experrt in the latest scientific police procedures -- photography, fingerprinting, autopsy -- and is a student of Prof. Hans Gross who pioneered the psychological study of crime.  His investigation leads him (and us) through some of the more bizarre medical practices of the day.  The Inspector's wife, Erszebet, an artist steeped in her native Magyar-Gypsy mysticism starts her own secret investigation of Dora's murder. She is independent, tough-minded, and completely unfettered by the restraints under which her husband operates. Erszebet enlists the help of a young English governess she met (by accident?) on a path beside the Danube.  Their detection is fueled by intuition, tarot cards, and frequent doses of torte and kuchen.  They also engage in more derring-do than the Inspector does in his plodding, legitimate investigation.<br />The Inspector and Erszebet live and move in the same affluent milieu as the victim's family.  Like his name, the source of their wealth is undisclosed.  They attend a Fasching Ball and visit friends in the country for a wild boar hunt -- a Central European version of Roderick and Troy Alleyn.  One of the many tensions in the story is watching the effect their joint but separate obsession with solving Dora's murder has on their marriage.<br />Unlike conventional mysteries, all the characters in this novel are changed by their connection to the central crime.  They discover the sexual cross-currents beneath the proper middle-class veneer and are affected by that discovery in different ways. In the end, we learn the identity of Dora's killer, but Shields leaves us with an unanswered question:  Do shape-shifters really roam Vienna in the night?  &quot;The Fig Eater&quot; is an ambitious and impressive first novel.	2001-02-03
US	51729554	RJXCDHO80TAFD	0380978954	476581890	The Truth: A Novel of Discworld	Books	4	13	14	N	N	The Truth According to de Worde	This review is aimed at the handful of people in the English-speaking world who, like me, have had no prior acquaintance with Terry Pratchett and his Discworld novels.  The millions of Discophiles who want to know how &quot;The Truth&quot; compares to the twenty-four previous books in the series are advised to consult the reviews of others.<br />    The blurb-writers compare Pratchett to Carroll, Tolkien, Baum, Vonnegut and Douglas Adams.  Everyone seems to agree that he is a satirist.  Judged only on &quot;The Truth&quot; he is a rather mild-mannered one -- fearlessly exposing the excesses of the media and making the case for ethnic toleration (vampires are people too).  Pratchett is most obviously a zany and original humorist.  &quot;The Truth&quot; is a very funny book in its own right -- regardless of its literary antecedents.<br />    Ankh-Morpork, locus of &quot;The Truth&quot; is a pre-industrial city on Discworld ruled by Lord Vetinari and dominated by hereditary nobles and guilds.  There is a plot afoot to replace Vetinari because he has been too tolerant toward the trolls, werewolves, vampires, and,especially, the dwarves who are migrating to Ankh-Morpork to seek their fortunes.  Golems run the fire brigade and a closet werewolf is a sergeant of the Watch.  The central character is William deWorde, a disaffected member of the nobility, who has been eking out a meager living selling hand-engraved tablets of gossip to a few wealthy clients.  He falls in with some dwarves who have just set up the first printing press in the city and The Ankh-Morpork Times is born (&quot;The news shall make you fret&quot;).  The guild of engravers get their own press and begin publishing a sensationalist tabloid (&quot;Woman Gives Birth to Cobra&quot;).  Two hit-men imported for the Vetinari plot are ordered by a zombie lawyer to put the Times and its editor out of business permanently.<br />    The book teems with interesting off-center chracters like  Otto, the vampire photographer deWorde soon hires.  Otto speaks with a Lugosi accent and is in a twelve-step program for vanpires.  He is also an inventor.  He uses an imp-powered &quot;iconograph&quot; with slamanders for flashbulbs.  Unfortunately he is turned to dust by the flash and must be reconstituted with a drop of blood after each shot.  DeWorde exposes the plot against Lord Vetinari with the help of &quot;Deep Bone&quot;, a talking dog named Gaspode.  Death puts in an appearance and proves that he, too, has a sense of humor.<br />    Underneath the humorist, Pratchett proves to be a moralist.  Death explains atonement.  DeWorde defends journalistic values and freedom of the press, while confronting his own prejudices towards his co-workers.  Pratchett's hand is heavier when he gets serious, but fortunately, that never lasts for long.	2001-01-30
US	51729554	R2QN6K25OXPN2U	0394716280	185724719	Voices of Protest: Huey Long, Father Coughlin, & the Great Depression	Books	4	44	45	N	N	A New View of Depression-era Demagogues	Alan Brinkley's book is a valuable addition to the history of the Great Depression.  He has broadened and altered my perceptions of Huey Long and Father Coughlin dramatically.  In addition to being populist demagogues, they both proposed radical economic reforms that put the New Deal to shame.<br />Long was not just a Louisiana or southern phenomenon.  In 1936, when he was shot, he had created a national organization with the apparent intention of running for President.  Brinkley has unearthed a poll commissioned by the Democratic National Committee that year that showed Long drawing as large a percentage of the vote as George Wallace or Ross Perot did in more recent elections.  And the support was not limited to southern states.  In Massachusetts, the DNC poll showed Long getting more than 13% of the vote.<br />Coughlin turned to fascism and overt anti-semetism only after his popularity began to wane when he split openly with Roosevelt. In his heyday he sounded like a socialist, proposing to replace the federal reserve with a true central bank and the nationalizing of the energy industry.<br />Brinkley thinks that Long, Coughlin and the California radical, Dr Townsend, pushed Roosevelt and the Congress into enacting a more comprehensive Social Security law than they would have otherwise.<br />Brinkley doesn't try to gloss over the dark side of Long's totalitarian rule in Louisiana or Father Coughlin's bloated ego and slide into ugly racism.  But he does present a economic reformist aspect to their movements that is no longer known -- even among historians.  It is more fashionable now to talk about the reform movements headed LaFollette and Norman Thomas as the sources of New Deal economic reform.  While those may have been more highminded reformers, they never approached Long and Coughlin in mass appeal or in their power to frighten a President.	2001-01-15
US	51729554	R3V86569DDJQFH	0618043705	876960131	The Best American Essays of the Century	Books	4	37	38	N	N	Great Reading -- if not the &quot;Best:&quot;	This is a wonderful collection of essays that gave me several hours of reading pleasure.  I take strong exception, however, to the use of &quot;Best&quot; in the title.  Another Amoazon reviewer says it is the only book of essays one need ever buy.  Both claims greatly exceed the load-bearing capacity of the 55 essays included.  It is an impossible task to reduce a century's worth of essays down to a handful that are &quot;best&quot;.  If Joyce Carol Oates and her co-editor Robert Atwan had called it &quot;Some of the Best American Essays of the Century&quot; I would have no quarrel with them.  Some of the selections strain the definition of &quot;essay&quot;, but are marvelous pieces of writing, nevertheless.<br />Mark Twain's &quot;Corn-pone Opinions&quot; leads off.  &quot;'You tell me whar a man gits his corn-pone, en I&quot;ll tell you what his 'pinion is'&quot;. Ms Oates says Twain is making a &quot;ringing denunciation of cultural chauvinism&quot;.  I read Twain as saying we are all captives of the conformity we accept as the price for the approval of our peers.  Either way the editors are as guilty of &quot;corn-pone opinions&quot; as any of us.  More than a third of the pieces are by famous authors -- best-known for their fiction and poetry rather than for their essays.  Writers who worked primarily in the essay form are badly under-represented, e.g.  Hannah Arendt, Dwight McDonald, Roger Angell, Jaques Barzun, AJ Liebling, MFK Fisher, Lewis Lapham, Noel Perrin, Nati Hentoff, Walter Lippmann, VS Naipul, Calvin Trillin, Andrew Tobias, and Gary Wills.  Atwan appends a bibliography of 200 &quot;notable&quot; authors excluded from the collection.<br />Oates says her collection's theme is the &quot;...expression of personal experience within the historical&quot;.  One can measure her interest in the historical issues and events of the 20th century by tabulating the essays devoted to them:   racial and ethnic issues -- high; politics -- nil; social problems -- high;  sex and gender problems -- low; literary matters -- high; sports and popular culture -- low.  Only two are about the dozen wars Americans fought during the century, both of them brilliant:  William Manchester on the good war and Michael Herr on the bad war.  Oates includes TS Eliot's &quot;Tradition and the Individual Talent&quot;, calling it one of the &quot;two most important literary essays of the twentieth century&quot;.  It may have seemed so when she was a student, but Eliot's theory of literary criticism has about the same relevance at the end of the century as William Jennings Bryan's silver standard.	2001-01-05
US	51729554	R110HWG17O4N3M	0060197005	832267718	Stonehenge: 2000 B.C.--A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A Dysfunctional Family Builds Stonehenge	Bernard Cornwell, who created the very successful Sharpe series of novels about the Napoleonic Wars turns his attention to prehistory with &quot;Stonehenge, 2000 B.C.&quot;. He has fitted a detailed picture of neolithic life into a plot full of love, mayhem, and intrigue. For good measure he tosses in an explanation of the mysteries surrounding the greatest construction project in prehistoric Britain.<br />It is the story of three half-brothers, sons of the chief of Ratharryn, who hate one another murderously, but whom fate entwines in an endeavor that lasts for the remainder of their lives. Lengar, the oldest, becomes chief by killing their father. He then sells Saban into slavery in Wales and takes his wife as a concubine. Crippled Carraban seeks sanctuary with Ratharryn's neighbor and rival Cathallo, where he becomes a sorcerer. They are reunited when Carraban convinces Lengar he must build a stone temple to the sun god and that Saban is the man to build it.<br />Cornwell does an excellent job of describing the techniques archeologists believe were used to construct two successive stone temples at the site of Stonehenge, but he compresses the work into a single generation. I think this was a mistake -- apart from its dubious factual foundation -- because it diminishes our awe at the ingenuity of conception and difficulty of execution. Part of the grandeur of Chartres Cathedral is that its construction was measured in generations not in years. Having Saban accomplish a miracle of neolithic engineering -- not once but twice -- truncates the magnificence of the achievement. Cornell glosses over the impossible economic demands that such rapid construction would make on a subsistence neolithic society.<br />Spreading the events over multiple novels would have been consistent with Cornwell's previous work, but would have required whole generations of new characters. That might not have been a bad thing. Saban is not as interesting as his vicious half-brothers -- or histwo wives for that matter! (In the movie version, I see Kevin Costner as Saban, John Malkovitch as Lengar, and Gary Oldman as Carraban) Cornwell, who is so facile at plotting, perhaps is stingy at creating central characters. After all he used Richard Sharpe and Arthur Wellesley through sixteen novels.	2001-01-02
US	51729554	RG1V4049WI0T4	0743215052	769417678	The Constant Gardener: A Novel	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Le Carre becomes a crusader	It is a fascinating coincidence that John Le Carre, greatest of spy fiction writers, and Elmore Leonard, who is in the first rank of detective fictions writers, have both turned to Africa in their latest works.<br />Le Carre has chosen Kenya as the locale for &quot;The Constant Gardener&quot; and a multinational pharmaceutical company to replace the evil empire as its villan.  Tessa, the beautiful young wife of a middle-aged British foreign service officer is murdered while she is gathering information on the deadly side-effects of a new and hugely profitable treatment for multi-resistant Tuberculosis.  Her companion, a handsome black doctor, who is widely thought to be her lover, has vanished.  Her husband, Justin, who, we must believe, knew almost nothing of his wife's crusade to expose wrong-doing by KVH (the drug company)embarks on a quest to retrace her steps and recover the missing information.  <br />In the process, the reader is given a short course in the ways multinational drug companies fiddle drug testing, bribe the medical profession, and stifle dissent.  The lectures are fitted into a fast-moving plot in which the grieving Justin must elude attempts by his own superiors to keep him under wraps, as well as murderous pursuers who dog his steps from continent to continent.  Along the way, Le Carre manages to skewer the foibles of the Foreign Office just as effectively as he did the British intelligence service in his Smiley books.  He also creates a gallery of unforgettable characters -- more fully realized than in any previous novel.<br />Leonard's protagonist in &quot;Pagan Babies&quot;, Father Terry Dunn is still haunted by the massacre in his church during the genocide in Rwanda five years before.  One of the perpetrators asks Fr. Terry to hear his confession and gets a stiffer penance than he counted on.  Fr. Dunn returns to his native Detroit, ostensibly to raise funds for his mission.  In typical Leonard fashion we are treated to a delicious farrago of con and counter con, cross and double cross.  Yet the image of forty-seven bodies lying hacked and shot to pieces in his church pursues Dunn and the reader like Banquo's ghost.<br />Le Carre is more obviously a crusader in his book than Leonard is in &quot;Pagan Babies&quot;. &quot;The Constant Gardener&quot; is as darkly pessimistic as &quot;The Spy Who Came in from the Cold&quot;.  Leonard's detached style in &quot;Pagan Babies&quot; is cool to the point of being cold.  One roots for both authors' protagonists to overcome the bad guys, but afterwards feels a little guilty for likeing Father Terry so much.	2000-12-21
US	51729554	RKLW4RAI9ZO4H	0385333927	951729133	Pagan Babies	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Out of Africa	It is a fascinating coincidence that Elmore Leonard and spymaster John Le Carre have both turned to Africa in their latest works.<br />Leonard's protagonist in &quot;Pagan Babies&quot;, Father Terry Dunn is still haunted by the massacre in his church during the genocide in Rwanda five years before.  He consoles himself with Johnny Walker and his beautiful black housekeeper who lost an arm to a Hutu panga. One of the perpetrators of the massacre asks Fr. Terry to hear his confession and gets a stiffer penance than he counted on.<br />Fr. Dunn returns to his native Detroit, ostensibly to raise funds for his mission.  He fall in with Debby who just got out of prison for hitting her ex-boyfriend with a Ford Escort.  Debby is trying to recover the $67,000 he conned from her.  In typical Leonard fashion this lead to a delicious farrago of con and counter con, cross and double cross.  But the image of forty-seven bodies lying hacked and shot to pieces in his church pursues Dunn and the reader like Banquo's ghost.<br />Le Carre has choosen Kenya as the locale for &quot;The Constant Gardener&quot; and a multinational pharmaceutical company as the villan.  The beautiful young wife of a middle-aged British foreign service officer is murdered because she is gathering information on the deadly side-effects of a new and hugely profitable treatment for multi-reistant Tuberculosis.  Her husband Justin, awakened from bureaucratic lethargy, goes on a quest to retrace her steps and recover the missing information.  In the process, the reader is given a short course in the ways multinational drug companies fiddle drug-testing, bribe the medical profession, and stifle dissent.  The lectures are fitted into a fast-moving plot in which the grieving Justin must elude attempts by his own superiors to keep him under wraps, as well as the murderous pursuers who dogs his steps from continent to continent.  Along the way Le Carre manages to skewer the foibles of the Foreign Office just as effectively as he did the British intelligence services in his Smiley books.<br />Le Carre is more obviously on a crusade in his book than Leonard is in &quot;Pagan Babies&quot;.  &quot;The Constant Gardener&quot; is as darkly pessismistic as &quot;The Spy Who Came in from the Cold&quot;.  Leonard's detached style in &quot;Pagan Babies&quot; is cool to the point of being cold.  He doesn't show his sympathies as obviously as Le Carre.  One roots for both authors' protagonists to overcome the bad guys, but afterwards one feels a little guilty for liking Father Terry so much.	2000-12-21
US	51729554	R2QCTSG9JHVLHR	0060194243	137888326	Sharpe's Fortress: India 1803 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #3)	Books	3	9	16	N	N	Sharpe Thrashes the Wogs	This book completes Cornwell's trilogy of historical novels chronicling Supersoldier Richard Sharpe's military career in India through 1803.  The trilogy is a prequel to Sharpe's adventures during the Napoleonic Wars shown in a series on Masterpiece Theatre a few years ago.  Sharpe is the eternal outsider: never fitting in; never accepted by his immediate superiors; always battling the incompetence and villainy that pervades the British army; and always winning the devotion and respect of those with &quot;the right stuff&quot;.  Like the entire series, this book is packed with great battle action and realistic gore.  It is, as they say, a good read.<br />Where would Major General Arthur Wellsley(that shall be Duke of Wellington hereafter) be without Sharpe?  Sharpe has already saved his life (in Sharpe's Triumph), earning himself promotion from the ranks.  In Sharpe's Fortress he finds the key which allows Wellsley to capture Gawilghur, the impregnable stronghold of the Mahrattas, ending resistance to British rule in western India.  In the future Sharpe will help Wellsley/Wellington restore his trooops' morale (Sharpe's Eagle), recover his hijacked payroll (Sharpe's Gold), expel the French from Spain (Sharpe's Honour) and win the battle of Waterloo (Sharpe's Waterloo).<br />Other reviewers, both amateur and professional, praise the accuracy of Cornwell's historical detail.  I concur if that refers to details of life in the British Army of the early 19th century, the minutia of military equipment etc.  There are some minor anachronisms in this book.  Wellsley is referred to as &quot;Sir Arthur&quot; although he wasn't knighted until his return from India.  Sharpe uses the image &quot;quick as a jackrabbit&quot; even though, as a London urchin, he would have had scant chance of knowing about a creature whose territory was just being explored by the first english-speakers like Lewis and Clark.  Sharpe's nemesis, Sergeant Hakeswill, yearns &quot;Haven't tasted a 'taterin months.  Christian food, that, see?&quot; despite the fact that potatoes did not become popular among English common folk until after the Napoleonic Wars.<br />My biggest quibble involves Corwell's historical perspective -- not his details.  In his &quot;Historical Note&quot;, he says that British losses at Gawilghur of 150 was a &quot;small butcher's bill&quot;.  He doesn't seem to count the thousands of Indians slaughtered there as part of the butcher's bill.  He makes us see the inequalities and stupidities of the class-ridden British Army through Sharpe's eyes, but one will have to look elsewhere for a Mahratta's view of the events in the India of 1803.<br />Cornwell would have us see the British invaders as plucky, clever underdogs -- outnumbered and outgunned by fierce warriors in an impregnable fortress.  Only in his afterword does he admit that the quick victory might lead one to &quot;the supposition is that the defenders were thoroughly demoralized.&quot;  But that won't do because it would turn the epic heroics of Sharpe and his friends into just another massacre!  I find Sharpe and Wellsley easier to take when they are fighting Frogs rather than Wogs.	2000-12-11
US	51729554	RPW42VW50GKZ5	0517702126	12356969	Jefferson and the Gun-Men: How the West Was Almost Lost	Books	5	2	2	N	N	How the West Was Almost Lost	This surely the liveliest and most entertaining book on American history published in the year 2000.  Like Bruce Catton before him, M.R. Montgomery uses skills honed as a newspaperman to tell the compelling story of three groups of adventurers who set out on divergent, but interrelated missions in the newly acquired Louisiana Territory 1803-7.  The best know of these is the Corps of Discovery led by Lewis and Clark, whom President Jefferson has sent on a multi-purpose mission to the headwaters of the Missouri River and beyond to the Pacific Ocean.  As Lewis and Clark ascend the Missouri, Jefferson's former Vice President, Aaron Burr, who had recently killed Alexander Hamilton in a duel, travels west to conspire with the commanding general of the US Army, Wilkerson (who is also governor of the new Louisiana Territory).  They plot to either invade Mexico or to split off all the land west of the Appalachians into a new nation -- or perhaps to do both.  Wilerson then sends off an exploration party of his own led by Lt. Zebulon Pike first to the headwaters of the Mississippi and then into the southern Rockies and Spanish New Mexico.<br />     Montgomery's perspective is mildly revisionist, his tone is ironic, and his story-telling is crisp and colorful.  He uses the present tense to draw the reader inside the frame of the story. His narrative uses intercutting -- as a novel might -- to keep us abreast of the progress each of the groups is making toward its objective, as well as what Jefferson is doing back in Washington.  Lewis and Clark's adventures provide the main thread of the story, while the conspirators and Pike supply the villainy and the comic relief.  The hapless Pike's energetic but incompetent leadership serves to highlight the skills and foresight of Lewis and Clark.<br />     Jefferson and the Gun-Men, in little more than 300 pages, does better than thicker academic histories at putting the Lewis and Clark expedition in the context of its time.  A time verydifferent from our own -- not just for the absence of truck stops and shopping malls.  It is a time before the gospel of manifest destiny and a civil war had resolved the question of how many nations would occupy the continent.  It is a time when a Vice President of the United States could kill a man in a duel and then preside at the impeachment of a Supreme Court Justice. (Montgomery has the wrong justice Chase being impeached, however) It is a time when the commanding general of the US Army is taking Spanish bribes at the same time he and Burr plot for empire.  Montgomery works hard to show us not only Lewis and Clark, but Jefferson, Burr and the other figures in this story not as icons, but as complex human beings -- capable of great vision and great acts, but afflicted with blind spots and shortcomings peculiar to thenselves and to their times.<br />     The title is taken from a speech Jefferson made to a group of Indian chiefs sent east by Lewis and Clark and others.  He begins by telling them that &quot;we are united in one family with our red brethren&quot;; a sentiment few of Jefferson's white brethren would have endorsed.  Then Jefferson says (untruthfully) that he plans to establish non-profit trading posts for their benefit.  He closes with a plea for peace among the tribes and between the tribes and whites.  In case the Indians do not opt for peace, he warns them, &quot;My children, we are strong, we are numerous as the stars in the heavens, and we are all gun-men.&quot;  We present-day Americans, the beneficiaries of those gun-men, can learn a great deal from this book.	2000-12-03
US	51729554	R2TPWNOPCNQR25	1559705159	922755710	The Hinge Factor: How Chance and Stupidity Have Changed History	Books	2	63	72	N	N	The What--If Factor	&quot;The Hinge Factor&quot; is an exercise in historical Monday-morning quarterbacking. In it Erik Durschmied, a former television war correspondent, describes 18 critical military engagements beginning with the Trojan hourse in 1184 BC and ending with the Gulf War.  He then, equally briefly, gives what he thinks is the single &quot;hinge factor&quot; on which the battle turned.  His subtitle &quot;How Chance and Stupidity Have Changed History&quot; gives a clue to the kind of hinge he is talking about.  In TV jargon I think this is called a hook.<br />     Durschmied tells a good story -- quickly and yet colorfully.  He shows us parts of the action through the eyes of specific participants -- including bits of dialogue that lend flavor to the scenes. (I was left wondering if these were authentic; they sound almost too cinematic for words found in soldiers' letters and diaries.) The best sections of the book are those Durschmied covered as a journalist himself -- especially the fighting in Hue during the Tet Offensive.<br />     Durschmied's assessment is sometimes colored by his enthusiasms and his need for a hook. His description of the battle of Antietam mostly features courageous Confederates slaughtering ill-led Union troops. Some readers may be unprepared for his revelation at the end that Confederate casualties were substantially higher than those suffered by the Union army.  He concludes it was a moral victory for General Lee.  He ignores the fact that Lee lost an irreplaceable quarter of his army in a battle he needn't have fought, that he was forced to retreat back across the Potomac in the middle of the night nearly losing his entire artillery reserve in the process, and that his objective of fomenting an uprising among Confederate sympathizers in Maryland was thwarted by the battle.  Durschmied compresses the complex motivations and movements of Russian and German forces that clashed in Prussia in August 1914 to just 17 pages. He distills the reason forthe Russian defeat down to a single personality clash. When studied in detail, the history of great events is seldom that tidy.<br />    Durschmied is clearly not writing for the serious student of history -- military or otherwise.  The maps he provides are inadequate.  They contain little topgraphical detail and geographic points mentioned in his text do not appear on the accompanying map.  There are errors of fact that should have been caught by his editors.  His bibliography is sketchy.	2000-11-19
US	51729554	R10KRBYW0O08XR	0375420568	325012059	Master of the Crossroads	Books	4	11	13	N	N	The Black Napoleon of Haiti	It is not clear to me who, precisely, is the master in &quot;Master of the Crossroads&quot;.  Mait' Kalfou, master of the crossroads between life and death, is one of the spirits that take possession of participants during voodoo ceremonies.  Early in the novel he speaks through one of the central characters saying, &quot;I want liberty and equality to reign throughtout Saint Domingue(Haiti).&quot;  That desire is never realized though thousands of Haitians -- white, black, and many shades in between -- pass through Mait' Kalfou's crossroads in the course of the novel.  Madison Smartt Bell may have been thinking also of Touissaint Louverture, the brilliant Haitian general, whose rise to absolute power is the historical thread that stitches this novel together.  It might also apply to some of the diverse cast of fictional characters who sucessfully negotiate dangerous moral crossroads in the course of the story.      This is an ambitious novel.  Bell sets out to show us the confusing welter of racial, economic and nationalist groupings that struggled for power and/or survival in Haiti 1793-1801.  He succeeds by peopling the novel with fictional men and women drawn from those groups, whose lives and loves intertwine around the central figure of Touissaint Louveture.  Through their eyes we watch Louveture defeat the English and Spanish invaders and gain control over the various warring segments of French society.  The reader becomes immersed in the crises and tragedies experienced by the fictional characters at the same time we follow the military chess game Louveture is playing.  Interestingly enough, Bell's creations--whose skin colors are as variegated as their backgrounds and social status -- tend to be either good or bad with very few moral half-tones.  Louveture, himself, remains a &quot;mystery wrapped in an enigma&quot; even after 700 pages of viewing him from many perspectives -- including his own actual writings.  Bell has made him fascinating nevertheless.One ends the book wishing to know more about this military and political genius who spent most of his life as slave and groom to one of the &quot;Grand Blanc&quot; landowners.      Other things about the novel remain mysterious for me.  The bulk of the narrative is written in thrid person from the perspective of whichever charater we are following at the moment.  One character only, the ex-slave Riau, officer in Louveture's army speaks in the first person.  Not having read any of Bell's other writing, I don't know whether magical realism is a banner under which he ordinarily marches, but there are events in this novel that stretch credulity.	2000-11-13
US	51729554	R1P44VP0C1JMS7	0192862103	662392178	Predictions: Thirty Great Minds on the Future (Popular Science)	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Cliffnotes for the Lazy Middlebrow	This book's genesis can be traced to a series of profiles of contemporary &quot;great minds&quot; published in &quot;The Times Higher Education Supplement&quot;.  Someone at Oxford University Press saw an opportunity to recycle 30 of them as a millennium project by adding brief predictions from the profilees about what scholarly breakthroughs they foresee in the 21st century.  The 30 predictors are celebrity scholars in various fields of science, social science, mathematics and philosophy. Some are well-known like Noam Chomsky, Stephen J Gould, John Kenneth Galbraith, and Arthur C Clark, while others are moderately obscure like Steven Pinker, Lynn Margulis, Dale Spender, and Amartya Sen.      All 30, though, are sufficiently trendy to appear in the mass media's more intellectual venues like C-Span and PBS to promote their latest books or projects.  As such, their names and their ideas are a necessary part of the baggage of the well- informed middlebrow.  The chief value of the books is as a sort of Cliffnotes for those who don't have the time or inclination to read these authors in the original.  The profile summarizes the career and published works of the &quot;great mind&quot; placing him or her in the context of their peers.  Thus, in a mere 320 pages one can acquire enough information to appear conversant with the Great Books and Great Thoughts of our day.     The predictions, themselves, are pretty pallid stuff.  Galbraith hopes (rather than predicts) that the income gap will narrow and that a strengthened UN will &quot;suspend sovereignty in countries whose governments are destroying their people&quot;.  Arthur C Clark, as one might expect, is the exception, prophesying that artificial intelligence will equal human intelligence within twenty years and that by the end of the 21st century mankind will have developed space propulsion systems that permit near speed-of-light travel. Umberto Eco offers the only memorable epigram when he warns (referring to the parallel development of airships and airplanes) that &quot;in both philosophy and the sciences you must be careful not to fall in love with your own airship&quot;.	2000-11-13
US	51729554	R1KVWY3THXFTYZ	0446519898	761871982	Gladly the Cross-Eyed Bear (Matthew Hope Mysteries)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Gladly we read Ed McBain	Ed McBain is the best and this is one of his best.  Matthew Hope has two cases, but only one client.  The first case is Lainie Commins' battle with a big toy company over trademark rights to a cross-eyed teddy bear.  The second is defending her aginst charges that she has murdered the owner of the toy company. He is also battling the after-effects of his own recent near-death experience. Matthew has to work through all these difficulties without the help of his favorite PI's Warren Chambers and Toots Kiley who are embroiled in a life-threatening subplot of their own. This complcated story is played out against the backdrop of McBain's beautifully rendered city of Colussa, Florida.	2000-11-11
US	51729554	R1IR54CAL7WVSQ	0385486103	582921363	Beacon Street Mourning: A Fremont Jones Mystery (Fremont Jones Mysteries)	Books	2	4	13	N	N	Fascinating Lady	Dianne Day's &quot;Beacon Street Mourning&quot; is not a very good hostorical mystery, but her protagonist, Fremont Jones, is an engaging creation. 24-year-old daughter of a proper Boston banker, she and her Russian aristocrat lover are operating a San Francisco detective agency when the story opens.  Though still suffering from injuries suffered in an earlier adventure, she sets off for Boston when she learns that her father is gravely ill and may not be receiving proper care from her stepmother.  Miss Jones is a very liberated lady for 1908.      The trouble is that neither the history nor the mystery are as interesting as Fremont Jones, herself.  Apart from horse-drawn vehicles and womens'clothes, we might well be in the Boston of 1958 or even 1998 as that of 1908.  There is none of the historical trivia that gives flavor and atmosphere to the historical mysteries of Ellis Peters, John Dickson Carr, or Jack Finney.  Locke Ober's restaurant, which Day uses for local color, continued to ban women from its cafe for more than sixty years after Fremont is forced to eat in the upstairs  dining room on Ladies'day. The evil stepmother is murdered and we find out &quot;who&quot; without being offered a satisfactory &quot;why&quot;.     An unsolved mystery in the book for me, who has not read the earlier Fremont Jones books, is how she can claim to be related to John Charles Fremont, the explorer and first Republican presidential candidate.  Fremont Jones is supposedly of old Bostonian stock while J C Fremont was a fatherless South Carolinian who got no closer to Boston than New York.	2000-10-30
US	51729554	R1BZKHOORRI74F	0151005893	376797360	Jumping Fire: A Smokejumper's Memoir of Fighting Wildfire	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Confessions of an Adrenalin Junkie	&quot;Jumping Fire&quot; is Murry Taylor's memoir of his life in the smokejumper, the elite air cavalry in the war against wildfire.  Taylor spent thirty-plus summers (longer than anyone else) parachuting into remote parts of Alaska and other western states to put out fires.  Using the framework of a single fire season, he describes the routine of training and preparation, limns the strengths and foibles of his co-workers, and gives vivid, suspenseful accounts of his participation on half a dozen fires.  Woven into this journal form is a short course on the equipment, techniques, logistics, and organization used in fighting wildfires.      For most readers, the activity and culture Taylor is writing about is as alien as the one Margaret Meade described.  It is no less fascinating for that.  The smokejumpers have their own rituals, myths, and legends.  To themselves and their friends they are proficient warriors in a struggle against a powerful unpredictable enemy -- fire.  Chuck Yaeger crossed with Frodo Baggins.  Wounds are frequent.  Victory is temporary.  Fellowship is all-important.  They become addicted to adrenalin and overtime.      Taylor follows moments of high drama with self-pitying reflections on his failure to maintain long-term relationships with women. During the summer the book recounts, he manages to sandwich two sexual relationships in between jumping fires all over Alaska and in central Idaho.  The pages he devotes to those matters might have been better spent giving more details on the conflicts among the various governmental agencies charged with protecting our public lands from wild fires.	2000-10-29
US	51729554	R1NTALNGKA82QI	0151005893	376797360	Jumping Fire: A Smokejumper's Memoir of Fighting Wildfire	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Confessions of an Adrenalin Junkie	&quot;Jumping Fire&quot; is Murry Taylor's memoir of his life in the smokejumpers, the elite air cavalry in the war against wildfire.  Taylor spent thirty-plus summers (longer than anyone else) parachuting into remote parts of Alaska and other western states to put out fires.  Using the framework of a single fire season, he describes the routine of training and preparation, limns the strengths and foibles of his co-workers, and gives vivid, suspenseful accounts of his participation on half a dozen fires.  Woven into this journal form is a short course on the equipment, techniques, logistics, and organization used in fighting wildfires.      For most readers, the activity and culture Taylor is writing about is as alien...  It is no less fascinating for that.  The smokejumpers have their own rituals, myths, and legends.  To themselves and their friends they are proficient warriors in a struggle against a powerful unpredictable enemy -- fire. ...  Wounds are frequent.  Victory is temporary.  Fellowship is all-important.  They become addicted to adrenalin and overtime.      Taylor follows moments of high drama with self-pitying reflections on his failure to maintain long-term relationships with women. During the summer the book recounts, he manages to sandwich two sexual relationships in between jumping fires all over Alaska and in central Idaho.  The pages he devotes to those matters might have been better spent giving more details on the conflicts among the various governmental agencies charged with protecting our public lands from wild fires.	2000-10-29
US	51729554	R4K86CLBEGURS	0826322336	303511284	The Stolen Blue: A Claire Reynier Mystery (Claire Reynier Mysteries)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Hasty but Tasty	This is an entertaining mystery which introduces a new sleuth, Claire Reynier, who is a rare-books librarian at the University of New Mexico. It involves stolen books, a contested will and murder. It is fast-paced and humorous.  Van Gieson does an excellent job of painting the character of her new detective without slowing down the story.  Claire is middle-aged, divorced, practices tai chi, loves books and cats.  Through her eyes we get a brief look at various facets of anglo culture in New Mexico and an even briefer glimpse of the landscape.     The shortcoming of the book is its hurried feel -- especially at the end.  The trap Claire uses to catch the thief/murderers is so transparent it wouldn't fool anyone.  And the wrapup is terse as an afterthought.  Others have noted the  error with names in the final paragraph of the book.      I will watch for the next Claire Reynier mystery, hoping that it will be a more fully realized piece of work.	2000-10-15
US	51729554	R1ZDD438QS7AAW	0385478216	836335175	In the Wilderness: Coming of Age in Unknown Country	Books	3	13	15	N	N	West of Eden	Kim Barnes seems to be making a career of writing memoirs -- two before she's turned forty.  The first, &quot;In the Wilderness&quot; is about her growing up in the logging camps and logging towns of northern Idaho in the 60's and 70's.  It is about times and places in Idaho I thought I knew fairly well, but Barnes' eyes have seen a different country.    The writing is mostly brillant -- clear and poetic -- and the content touches plenty of contemporary bases:  marriage, parenting, feminism, religion and environmentalism.     Barnes' parents were uprooted from Oklahoma in the 50's and migrated to Idaho to join relatives who were living a communal existence as gippo loggers on the Clearwater River.  Eden for Kim Barnes was a circle of shacks, sans plumbing or utitlities, on US Forest Service land beside Orofino Creek.  There she and her extended family literally lived off the land, bidding on small timber sales, growing vegetables, picking berries, fishing, and hunting game.  Anachronisitic even by Idaho standards, the constituent family units of the clan had, by 1966, dispersed to better-paying jobs and indoor plumbing in the land west of Eden.  Barnes' father moved his family only fifteen miles to Pierce (population 500) and continued to work as a logger.  He bears a more than passing resemblance to the central character in Kesey's &quot;Sometime a Great Notion -- strong and rigid in mind and body.  The family became deeply involved with the local Pentecostal church and its strange minister.  At one point, after having a vision of a demon, her father retreats to their root cellar to fast and meditate for forty days.     The next move is to &quot;big city&quot; Lewiston where Kim enters junior high and adolescent revolt almost simultaneously.  Unable to control her, her parents send her stay with the Pentecostal minister and his family who are living near Spokane. Although the experience is traumatic, Kim returns reformed and repentant to enter high school.  She isan honor student and becomes a devout member of an Assembly of God church where she speaks in tongues.      The next 20+ years of Barnes' life are covered in a series of disconnected vignettes and flashbacks.  (perhaps she was already planning the next memoir) It is the least satisfactory part of the book.  She graduates from high school, but continues to clash with her father. She works at a variety of jobs, starts taking college classes, marries her english professor and has two children. She comes to see Dworshak dam as the work of the devil. Although she is never really reconciled with her father, she &quot;strives not to see him as a villan and her mother as a victim&quot;.       &quot;In the Wilderness&quot; may sound bizarre in synopsis, but its effect is serious.  Barnes recreates the world she saw as a child and an adolescent with riviting simplicity.  One doesn't have to accept her notion that a paradise on the Clearwater was lost between 1966 and 1996 to be moved by her sense of loss.  We all struggle with family dynamics that she shows acted out in larger-than-life fashion by the generations of the Barnes family.	2000-10-09
US	51729554	R2C7FQ51OOVLA0	0195134427	508453670	The Isles: A History	Books	5	25	29	N	N	A New Look at &quot;Merry Old ________&quot;	It is a rare and exhilerating experience to have one's long-held &quot;truths&quot; overturned and ingrained images altered so thoroughly by a single book as mine have been by &quot;The Isles&quot; . The author's stated purpose was to produce a single-volume general history, surveying the peoples and states that have occupied the archipelago known today as the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland from 7000 BC to the present day.    If Norman Davies has an ideological bias it may be &quot;continentalism&quot;. His previous work has been in European History. At the start, he points out that Canyon Man, whose remains were found near present-day Cheddar, lived 9000 years ago--when the archipelago was still attached to the european continent.  He was not Celt, Roman, Anglo-Saxon, Dane nor Norman. He predated them all.  Yet his DNA is a very close match to that of a teacher living in Cheddar today! Throughout the balance the book Davies stresses that the continuity and insularity of Great Britain's history is a myth; psychological rather than genetic; legendary rather than real. The last section of book is an argument for the UK's pursuing a continental polcy in the future.    Davies maintains that anachronistic nomenclature of geography is part of the myth-making. &quot;History of England&quot; and &quot;History of Great Britain&quot; are used interchangeably (even by the Oxford Univerity Library Index), even though England never covered more than the southern half of Great Britain and neither term subsumes Ireland and both make Scotland and Wales invisible.  This is more than a semantic quibble. Davies mantains that anachronistic use of place names has helped skew historical perspective. It fostered, at least from the 16th century onward, a monolithic, xenephobic sense of &quot;Englishness&quot; running back to Roman times. In fact, 16 diffent states have occupied the archipelago since 43 BC and the one known as the Kingdom ofEngland existed only from the tenth century to 1536(and that did not include Scotland, Ireland or Wales.    Most English historians,from the Tudor era onward, have found it politically convenient to minimize the contributions of the Medeival Irish, the Danes, and even the Normans to the culture and government of Great Britain.  They have created a picture of english cultural unity beginning with Alfred and running unbroken and little-changed down to Elizabeth II.  A sort of Anglo-Saxon manifest destiny. They tend to gloss over the fact that Alfred paid religous homage to the pope or that Richard the Lion Hearted spent only 6 months of his 10-year reign in his island kingdom and was a french-speaker to boot.      Davies' book is dense with information aimed at giving the reader a &quot;holistic&quot; view of the history of the archipelago. It teems with people and events not found in the standard works on &quot;English&quot; history.  One's view of historical figures are transformed.     For example, in the section about the United Kingdom of the present day, he drops in the perception-bending fact that Princess Diana was the first woman of English descent to marry a King of Britain (meaning 1707-2000) or an heir apparent.  Whaoo!  Say what! check it out.	2000-09-22
US	51729554	R32QECDJAHHT8V	0609603825	602895896	The Forest	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Lost in The Forest	&quot;The Forest&quot; offers the reader bulk without satisfaction.  Like  Michener's before him, Rutherfurd's books have become formulaic. His  technique is to string a series short tales upon the thread of the history  of a common locus -- in this case the &quot;New Forest&quot; in SW England.   Perhaps because we are familiar with the formula, it becomes easier to be  critical of the components.<br />   His tracing of certain physical and  intellectual chracter- istics down through the generations of the families  that figure in &quot;The Forest&quot; stikes me as clumsier and more  objectionable than when he did the same thing in &quot;Sarum&quot; or  &quot;London&quot;.  Must the Grockletons forever be claw-handed and  clench-minded and the Prides always fast-walking, fairminded and  upstanding?  It beggars belief.      The gentry seems to play a more  central roll -- or is it just a more boring roll? -- in &quot;The  Forest&quot; than in earlier Rutherfurd books.  In the &quot;Albion  Park&quot; story we are asked to believe that a wealthy young gentlewomen  in Georgian Bath would be brought to trial for stealing a piece of lace and  worry that she will be transported because she is too lovelorn to defend  herself. As that story ends, the aristocratic, remote, intellecutal man she  has married rises in the night and pens a &quot;confession&quot; to her.   We learn at the end of the book that it was only a love letter.  Maybe the  Brontes could have carried it off, but Rutherfurd can't.     I also found  Rutherfurd's coy toying with the theme of witchcraft in the New Forest  uninformed. At time of the Conquest, where the book begins, many of the  inhabitants of the New Forest probably belonged to pre-Christian religions.   In Rutherurd's forest you are either a christian or a witch.	2000-09-12
US	51729554	RNFU8UBI5D6BY	0425175405	636904914	Black Notice (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	1	24	26	N	N	Black Notice is Ersatz Cornwell	Cornwell's latest Kate Scarpetta crime novel, Black Notice, is so bad one would like to think it was a parody or perhaps written by an untalented Cornwell doppelganger from a parallel universe.  The usual characters are  there: Virginia CME Kate Scarpetta, her lesbian niece, Lucy (now working  undercover for the ATF), and Richmond Police Captain Pete Marino.  But they  are not themselves.  Marino's behavior is so erratic and clownish he is no  longer believable as a smart chief detective.  Scarpetta's emotional strum  und drang is deafening; rage, grief, remorse, and fear played at an  unremitting triple forte.  Lucy's chronic case of attitude seems to have  turned into something darker.     The spirit of FBI profiler Benton Wesley,  a stalwart in earlier Cornwell books, looms over Black Notice like the  ghost in Hamlet.  Perhaps his death has driven his friends mad.  The book  opens with a US Senator delivering a posthumous farewell letter to  Scarpetta from Wesley which concludes, &quot;I ask you to do one thing for  me to celebrate a life we've had that I know will never end.  Call Marino  and Lucy. Invite them over for dinner tonight.  Cook one of your famous  meals for them and save a place for me&quot;.  This last supper takes  place, but it can't transubstantiate dross into a satisfying novel.  And  Wesley, despite hints to the contrary, does not rise from the dead.      Besides the loss of her sometime lover, Kate has to deal with mysterious  subversion in her office, a serial killer who calls himself &quot;the  werewolf&quot;, and a new female Deputy Chief of Police who does a pretty  fair impression of one.  Lucy is trying to shut down a gun-smuggling  operation in Florida.  AND IT'S ALL CONNECTED!  No wonder everyone is  parnoid.  Even the US Senator says darkly (as well as tritely) that he has  received &quot;veiled threats&quot; about his friendship with Scarpetta.      Cornwell's ear for dialogue has turned to tin.  Her characters either  lapse into stilted banalities, as in the scene between Kate and the  Senator, or else they emote endlessly and operatically at one another.   Marino tells off Lucy, Scarpetta tells off Lucy.  Scarpetta tells off an  employee.  Marino tells off his boss.  Scarpetta and Marino tell off each  other ad nauseum.     Even minor characters speak unplausibly.  Kate and  Marino are summoned to Interpol headquarters in France because of their  werewolf (loup garou) investigation.  There Secretary General Mirot,  &quot;an imposing, gray-haired man&quot; uses the American slang, &quot;not  hardly&quot;, and his assistant, cosmopolitan, Harvard- educated hunk Jay  Talley, says &quot;Kate, we need you to prove...&quot; Are we in Lyon,  Toto, or Kansas?     The plot has its share of unplausibility too.  The  reader is asked to believe that only the dysfunctional duo from Richmond  can help Interpol solve a sticky crime conspiracy of its own in France. It  seems that the CME of France will only pass on evidence (illegally) about  the French loup garou murders to Kate, whom she met once at a coference  years before.  To strain our credulity even further, it turns out that Dr  Stvan, the CME, has had a close encounter with the werewolf herself.      Maintaining the symmetry, Kate tells off the hunk Talley.  Then they leap  into bed.     It is a short leap from there back to Richmond where all the  plot threads are wound up in hurried fashion.  It is only fair to report that the  forensic details in Black Notice are as intricate and interesting as in  past Cornwell books, but contribute little or nothing to solving the case.   And you can't hang out in the lab forever.  Sooner or later you have to  come out and face those crazy people who used to be your favorite  forensic-procedure detectives.	2000-09-01
US	51729554	R3SKEYF9D6JR51	0671792865	174148379	Many Rivers to Cross: Of Good Running Water, Wild Trout, and the Remains of Wilderness	Books	5	8	8	N	N	This is a marvelous book that deserves a wider audience.	The valuable insights, gentle humor and wistful beauties it contains should not be reserved just for the fishing fraternity.  M R Montgomery describes, with wit and sensitivity, his search for the last remaining  bastions of the native trout of the mountain west, the cutthroat. He  describes the people who help him on his quest with humor and with empathy.  In those remote places, his interest and his eyes wander to show us  paticularities of landscape and peculiarities of  the flora and fauna that  cohabit there with the trout. Beneath the surface Montgomery is addressing  concepts like &quot;wilderness&quot;, &quot;preservation&quot; and  &quot;stewardship&quot; without referring to them directly.  He begins his  story near the Little Big Horn Battlefield, but the last stand that he  wants us to contemplate is not Custer's.	1999-04-04
