US	51726843	RKMZOLS2QMDVB	1587901110	227317187	A Spy in the Ruins	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Stream of dream prose aspires to be, and is, poetry.	Spy is a work of lyrical virtuosity with a unique narrative style in which prose and poetry divinely blend into \\"stream of dream\\". The story line is original and compelling and crafted with a sensibility in the writing that in places left me awestruck. The writing was sensitive, vivid, layered, intelligent, textured, inspired, deeply felt and profound on many different levels. The story takes place amid the backdrop of a wasteland in the ruins of war and can be read at that narrative level. More deeply, the story is about a man caught up in the ruins of his life trying to remember and understand times of innocence and decision and love that have brought him to this point. The innovative writing style, as some have said, harks back somewhat to Joyce but even more so to the existential prose of Samuel Beckett. The writing is so skillfully wrought that it's the many passages on dozens of pages, which I underlined, where the transcendent prose ascends into a higher plane to truly lyrical poetry that I will remember and re-read. The net effect is a stream of dream narrative technique that builds upon stream of consciousness with a truly original, ethereal and intensely personal and vivid writing style. If you are an intelligent reader of literary novels, then you absolutely must read this watershed novel for there is genius in this book. Spy is one of the finest literary novels I've read in years and delivers a literary legacy that should be read slowly, savoured and treasured. I was absolutely blown away by the power and sensitivity manifest in this great novel, which measures well against the benchmark of some of America's truly great literary novels. I can't wait to read his next book.	2005-09-18
US	51726843	RJ3R0CMQBWMJE	0684804522	553808911	The Garden of Eden	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Hemingways' Final Grace Note	In this novel Hemingway plays the simple triangle of two bi-sexual women and a straight man for all it's worth. In the last published novel of Hemingway's the lean, muscular dialogue still rings clear and honest and true. The narrative is clean, compelling and minimalistic with details in the narrative that breed not only credibility but also trust in the verity of the narrator. I wondered if F. Scott Fitzgerald's many trials with Zelda, as Hemingway was a trusted confidant of Scott, had left more of a lasting impression on Hem than he would publicly admit. The sub-plot of the elephant hunt is vintage Hemingway, as seen through David Bourne as a young man, and I sympathized with his hatred of the hunt for ivory. The women are from a different era, admittedly, but sometimes they struck me as way too compliant and at other times their dialogue sounded mannish and inapt. But, overall, the portrait work of these three hedonistic characters in this Eden of Spain and the South of France seemed well drawn, as I cared what happened to each of them throughout the story line. Hemingway's last work ends on a note of powerful optimism -- luminous and hopeful that in the end paradise, once lost, can be re-gained on earth. For a Nobel novelist, who had seen so much of grim war and tempestuous love and humans tested by a harsh universe, he lived all of it immensely deeply: such optimism by such a realist is, at least, reassuring and, at best, an inspiration. Hemingway wrote better short works but he ended his career as a novelist with a grace note, which seems to say that the \\"garden\\" is still there through grace, if one only possesses the will to reclaim it.	2005-09-06
US	51726843	R2DGGLY6ZRO99L	0679732241	161451712	The Sound and the Fury: The Corrected Text	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The idiot as narrator	Faulkner was one of the first 20th century novelists to experiment radically with narrative perspective. Previously, novels were tales told by omniscient narrators or reliable voices in the first person. But what can be learned when the narrative voice spins a tale told by an idiot with the sound and fury signifying nothing? In this novel one dwells inside the being of four narrators and sees their common world through vastly different perspectives. This has the common effect of humanizing and engaging the reader in each character's everyday life. It is the height of verismilitude and impressively realistic in that the perceptions enter consciousness unfiltered by logic or even understanding. The reader experiences in the art the raw, random impressions of life itself. When Faulkner experimented with this literary style, like Joyce, he drew his readers into his characters in a way that had rarely been done before. How can one not identify with Benjy after experiencing the heartbreaking chaos, agony and bewilderment of his life? The truth is that modern man lives a life that is often bewildering and either is altogether bereft of meaning according to an intellect that grasps life's fundamental absurdity or contains an essence of mystery that, like God, lies almost untouchably beyond the realm of human understanding. Either way, one may as well admit that Benjy is all too human. When Faulkner began to write from unique narrative perspectives, he unleashed new American voices, hitherto unheard, in a great chorus in the Deep South. His narrative techniques enabled his readers to identify with his characters with a new empathy, synchronocity and facility. Like Shakespeare's great fools, often his finest literary creations, it takes real genius to make the narrator come alive as an idiot trapped within the pure bewilderment of existence.	2005-04-07
US	51726843	RDEX4D2ICH76S	0141180145	431493903	The Master and Margarita (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	The devil made me do it	Why only four stars for a work praised to the heights and depths by fellow reviewers? Devil take it. The novel is unquestionably highly inventive. How he managed to weave the two tales of the crucifixion and Satan takes Moscow is beyond me. His Satan and Margarita are the two most intriguing characters in the book and the Master to a lesser degree. Bulgakov has a talent for being most credible when the story line becomes most fantastic. The Biblical scenes jump off the page with vivid reality. This is a Faustian tale, of sorts, and the premise that Satan finds atheistic Moscow in the time of Stalin his kind of town is certainly intriguing. I wonder where he would choose to live now. His calling cards: black magic, vast wealth, sleight of hand, obfuscation, greed, naked women and death are easy enough to identify. There is definitely a timeless quality to this tale. But I lost count of the coy little go-to-the-devil quips, which became annoying after the 20th time. It's a pity Bulgakov never lived to see his novel in print for in my view it's a very fine and truly inventive but not quite great literary work.	2005-03-21
US	51726843	R1TDFXKHX1T2OO	0802137954	142387457	The Ginger Man	Books	5	61	71	N	N	Beastly lyrical	JPD launched a storied literary career with a masterpiece in The Ginger Man. Sebastian, which means \\"venerable,\\" is a man perpetually on the brink of utter madness brought largely upon himself. He is a Trinity College Dublin man whose condition is given to \\"staving off starvation\\" and whose only option when things always get worse is to \\"cheer-up or die.\\" When you consider that JPD was first a painter, it's understandable that his writing style is pointillistic. The syntax like Dangerfield is non-traditional presented like life itself in fragments of which to make sense. His little lines of stacked type at the end of each chapter are works of art in themselves: \\"All the way/From the land/Of Kerry/Is a man/From the dead/Gone merry./ This man/Stood in the street/ And stamped his feet/ And no one heard him.\\" Here the work winds from prose to poetry to create an endearing human quality and even tenderness that enables us to forgive the ginger man for his outrageousness. What would he and his poor as Pozzo crones do with a lot of money? Drink at every pub from College Green to Kerry over the course of a year and then \\"I'll arrive on Dingle Peninsula walk out on the end of Slea Head, beat, wet and penniless. I'll sit there and weep into the sea.\\" Very Dylan Thomas. A touch Kafkaesque. Joycean. JPD's Ginger Man is worthy of a higher position on Random House's \\"Best Novels of the 20th Century.\\" His body of work, including \\"Darcy Dancer,\\" \\"Balthazar B,\\" \\"The Singluar Man,\\" \\"The Onion Eaters,\\" \\"Wrong Info at Princeton\\" and \\"Samuel S.\\" is astonishing in its lyric virtuosity, power and originality.  When will the mavens of Hollywood treat us to tales by JPD that shimmer and dance upon the silverscreen?  And when will the good people in Stockholm see the light on JPD's vast, rich, enduring, literary legacy?	2005-02-16
US	51726843	R12V8QQUSMQSQV	0142437344	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Young genius takes flight	Portrait of the Artist is Joyce's Kunstleroman about the growth of sensibility in a young genius. The novel is luminous and because it is early Joyce, it's accessible as the writing style is straight ahead narrative modified to reflect the writer's age in various stages of his youth. It is easy to witness the writer's sensibility heighten as he matures: his sense of protest, his growing perspective of his life, church and nation. Proust and Joyce wrote at about the same time but met only once briefly in an awkward exchange and Joyce lived for years in self-imposed creative exile in Paris. In the later chapters there are stylistic similarities between early Joyce and Proust, whose style and narrative voice are consistent throughout the 4300 pages of La Recherche du Temps Perdu. However, Joyce's narrative technique changed radically as he grew as a novelist from Portrait to Ulysses and finally to Finnegan's Wake. In Joyce's willingness to experiment unfettered by style, voice, syntax, genre and diction he changed the English language: he left it better than he found it. Chapters 4 and 5 are brilliant and take flight like Daedalus, the inventive hawkman. If you seek an entry point into Joyce's work, this relatively simple, straightforward novel is your window.  \\"To speak of these things and to try to undestand their nature and, having understood it, to try slowly and humbly and constantly to express, to press out again, from the gross earth or what it brings forth, from sound and shape and colour which are the prison gates of our soul, an image of the beauty we have come to understand -- that is art.\\" I can't encourage you more strongly to explore Joyce -- he was the most luminous genius who ever wrote a novel.	2005-01-11
US	51726843	R4MMPY0EBQD1C	068482499X	917889657	A Moveable Feast	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	An American in Paris	During the early days of Hemingway's career Paris was was the most prolific writer's colony on the planet. The cost of living was cheap, the wine and food were good, and Paris attracted the talents of James Joyce, Ezra Pound, F. Scott Fitzgerald and Ford Maddox Ford among others. Paris was truly a moveable feast in his day and, although Hemingway was poor at age 25, he was devoted to a career in which his primary objective was to capture a true sentence and then to follow it with another. This simple objective gives Hemingway's writing its power, simplicity, accessibility, integrity, honesty, relevance and broad appeal. Hemingway may have been poor but he lived well and from his Paris base ventured to Spain for trout fishing, Austria for skiing and the Riviera before it became fashionable. Hem's highly personal anecdotes about Scott and Zelda were exceedingly revealing. His insights on TS Eliot working at a bank and his boxing lessons with noble Ezra Pound lend new depth to these writers' works. Hemingway played close to the vest his fling in Paris and one wonders if it weren't with Sylvia Beach, whom he admired, lent him books and ultimately published Joyce's Ulysses. If you're a serious writer or aspire to become one, this little book of true sentences defines the sacrifices made by the genuises who crafted some of the finest novels ever written.	2004-09-11
US	51726843	R2R22YHFYAKM1N	0684825538	11530247	Across The River And Into The Trees	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Poignant, powerful minimalism	When Hemingway wrote this novel, he may have known that his materpieces were behind him. Although this novel is a lesser work, there are moments of tenderness, poignancy and power crafted in his trademark miminalist style that linger. The novel concerns a retired Army Colonel, who has fought in brutal combat, near the end of his life and is desperately in love with a much younger woman. To me the woman signified the Colonel's lost youth and the relationship may take on new meaning if one views it as such. The Colonel looks backward in the novel to the horror and futility of war, which serves as a contrast to the extreme tenderness of his last love affair in Venice. Hemingway's experiences during the Spanish Civil War and in Paris during World War II give him much to draw upon in this literary \\"moveable feast,\\" which soubriquet first appears here. Against the harshness of his existence the Colonel has retreated to Italian duck blinds, Venice in winter and the adoring young beauty of his life. One senses that at this time in his life, so near the end, that Hemingway sees his own life's lapse into finality in lines from Stonewall Jackson's dying moments to cross peacefully over the river and into the trees. Hemingway is a master of dialogue and there is much between the Colonel and his young mistress to savor. I recommend that you read Old Man and the Sea, A Farewell to Arms and/or For Whom the Bell Tolls before taking on this novel. If you admire and have widely read Hemingway already, then this is a very fine but not great novel relative to his masterpieces. This is a compelling, accessible novel which subtleties will linger and perhaps the greatest aspect of the genius of his craft is that he never fails to have this same powerful impact.	2004-08-31
US	51726843	R2MR0XK4HS3DZ7	0684800527	776788077	A Frolic of His Own	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Legal Tenderness	I read Frolic after JR and The Recognitions of which I was more impressed than Frolic. It's amusing to watch Gaddis skewer the legal profession -- I can think of few professions more worthy of it -- but while he addresses the national feeding frenzy of greed associated with litigation his characters fail to capture much empathy as they were more hideous in many cases than their legal representatives. Consequently, I found myself detached from main characters and unsymapthetic to their sordid fates. In JR and The Recognitions I found characters whose destinies in the story lines mattered to me -- not so in Frolic. Gaddis has his finger on the pulse of a national disgrace in the need for tort reform but, since the reformers are self-regulating lawyers, it isn't likely to happen anytime soon. This novel is very finely written with powerful, pithy observations expressed in breathtaking jabs and poetic riffs. Frolic isn't as densely packed with intellect as JR or The Recognitions but is more accessible than either as his style is more accommodating in Frolic. This novel is just shy of great compared to the high standards set by his other works, which are among the best brace of American novels of the late 20th century. The great novels of Gaddis are destined to be discovered by wider readerships, to radiate brilliantly on America's literary landscape and to endure.	2004-07-16
US	51726843	RAFU83RNE1WXL	0140187081	262422883	The Recognitions (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	63	70	N	N	Epiphanies on Every Page	In a habit I sustained in college I make it a practice to underline the most quotable lines of novels I read: The Recognitions has underlines on every page. Gaddis is a major literary talent who hasn't yet even begun to receive the following of which he is worthy. This novel concerns the discoveries, both major and minor, of what is authentic in life: The Recognitions is enlightening, almost beatific, in the way in which it focuses upon the shortcomings and moral lapses of humans in pursuit of true art. From the starving painter whose unappreciated genius leads him to forge Flemish masters to a musician whose copied work played upon a great pipe organ brings down a chapel to counterfeitors of money and plagiarists of drama, this of work of Gaddis is the real thing. It is brilliant, witty, original and his command of the language is breathtakingly stunning in its execution. One can see the influence of James Joyce throughout the writing in an experimental style that is breakthrough. It is incredibly inventive and funny and astonishingly intelligent. It's no wonder that The Recognitions went unrecognized for so tragically long -- Gaddis is, without doubt, one of the top half-dozen of American literary novelists of the 20th century ranking with Bellow, Barth, Vonnegut, Hemingway and Faulkner. The writing is work by a fellow of verifiable genius: I strongly recommend that you to discover Gaddis -- he will enrich your life and help you better understand the nature of the personal epiphanies that give meaning to life.	2004-06-28
US	51726843	R3SVRL4VY3L696	0140187073	638068452	JR (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Recognize a Work of Real Genius?	I have long been struck by the irony that the most avid readers of literary novels seem to have been virtually ignored by American publishers who cater to the mainstream. Sad to say but American publishing's mindless fixation with mediocre mainstream fiction has had an obliterating effect on American literary culture. So God Bless Penguin for having the good sense to bring to light, even belatedly, this breakthrough literary novel by a supremely gifted writer. I haven't read a more challenging novel by such a first-rate mind in ages. The style of the novel is based upon stream-of-voice: it's akin to walking down 5th Avenue and overhearing parts of conversations of passersby. The net effect is that the reader is compelled to become engaged by virtue of the context, style and story line of unidentified speakers until their voices become familiar. Until the reader succeeds in identifying the voices, the novel seems absurdly abstract. Like many great 20th century novels JR does appear incomprehensible at the outset until the reader discovers a roadmap to navigate this vast stream of voices. If life is order disguised as chaos, then JR is the very height of verisimilitude as there is a reality inherent in this novel that is breakthrough by virute of its style and intricately woven in its storyline. This stream-of-voice in a sense captures the fine art of the ancient oral tradition of story-telling starting with Homer. Jose Saramago in Blindness experimented in a similar way in his novel of discovery and so does Joyce in Ulysses and Finnegan's Wake. JR is an important novel by a relatively obscure literary novelist worthy of the small but devoted readership of which it has become my privilege to join. In fact, I have just begun to read The Recognitions. If you are a serious reader of literary novels, then you owe it to yourself to read Gaddis. His novels are a national treasure: one only hopes that some day soon the nation will properly recognize it.	2004-05-28
US	51726843	RZK04SXI6X3LQ	0192834835	655554658	Don Quixote de la Mancha (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A comic masterpiece about truth and illusion	Don Quixote is a comedy, which could only have been written by the hitherto obscure genius later in life after he had suffered injury on the battlefield and was subject to periods of harsh confinement in prison. The comedy is bittersweet about this everyman who lives strictly by a code of ancient ethical ideals that inspire him to fits of lunacy, folly and madness. Lucid, indeed inspired, when the subject is anything but knight errantry, Quixote's commitment to his ideals brings him insult, injury, poverty and ridicule. This knight is duped by his convictions into waging war on windmills, galley slaves, funeral processions, pilgrims, shepherds, herds of bulls and countless chimeras invoked in the name of love for his Dona el Toboso. This most chaste of knights cannot see the realities of human nature and worse cannot accept them. His endless brutal punishments for his idealistic blindspots plague him and his squire, Pancho Panza, wherever they aspire in the personal quest to right an injury, assist a noble cause, protect the weak and innocent, and slay evil demons of every imaginable stripe. When I first read this novel, I thought Quixote a fool who was duly punished for being so out of touch with reality. By the end of the novel I saw that Don Quixote was no less than an everyman whose noblest instincts were doomed to bring suffering upon him as he was driven to confront the baser powers of existence. What Crusader fails to risk madness in the wake of the futility of human action in a vast, overpowering and hostile universe? In Quixote and Sancho I caught a glimpse of Vladimir and Estragon in &quot;Waiting for Godot.&quot; One man's truth is another's falsehood. One man's reality is another's illusion. One man's ideal is another's folly. Yet Quixote rides out in his quests across Spain, nevertheless, without fear for the chaos he engenders nor the futility of his cause nor the danger to himself or his best friend. For his nobility Don Quixote becomes not only famous and truly beloved but also earns immortality. Read this &quot;father of the modern novel&quot; for its wit and genius and classical construction to understand the Quixotic ideals that stir within you and the possibilities for real victory of the human spirit.s and truly beloved but also earns immortality. Read this &quot;father of the modern novel&quot; for its wit and genius and classical construction to understand the Quixotic ideals that stir within you and the possibilities for real victory of the human spirit.	2004-03-19
US	51726843	R1J7UVFYMQHQLA	0141439777	175734036	The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Germinal comic masterpiece	There is so much in this novel one hardly knows where to begin, which is Sterne's hilarious problem for the first 300 pages or so. Tristram Shandy is a comic masterpiece, like Fielding's Tom Jones, which arose barely after the invention of the genre. Even Sterne's name almost seems a play on words and it's easy to see why great minds who followed Sterne like Nietzsche (Note &quot;The Ass Festival&quot; in Zarathustra), Samuel Beckett (Waiting for Godot), James Joyce (Ulysses) and J.P. Donleavy (Darcy Dancer, Gentleman, The Singular Man, Balthazar B., The Ginger Man, Saddest Summer of Samuel S.) admired immensely and were influenced by him. One has to love the way that Toby explains to Mrs. Wadman where he was wounded during one of her sieges of his fortress. One has to laugh at Sterne's tearing out of chapters, allowing the reader to pencil in his favorite profanities, making sense of pages of black ink, marbled patterns, blank pages and squiggled lines marking little ups and downs -- as obscure as the raw meaning of life itself. He writes chapters about whiskers, noses, buttons and nothing. I especially enjoyed the dedications to famous persons before several of his volumes. The epigrams were delicious and the careful reader is rewarded on every page for paying close attention to Sterne's often subtle comic style. Sterne certainly opened up the genre with an experimental literary style in which he created a vibrant, raucous, hilarious novel still relevant 300 years after it was penned. I can't say enough about the contribution of this comic gem to the literary works that followed, especially in Ireland. If you're a serious reader with a sense of humor, you'll be amused and enlightened by Sterne's intrepid wit.	2004-02-26
US	51726843	R2XAWR034ST1OO	0679783180	325978172	The Charterhouse of Parma (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Passionate, original, transporting	I read this novel after finishing The Red and the Black, which I thought was the far better novel of the two. The scenes in which Fabrizio joins Napoleon's army at Waterloo really come to life and shine in the narrative of Stendahl, as he had been a soldier in battle for Napoleon during his lifetime. Fabrizio really is a bit too much of a narcissist and after a while, despite his handsome youth and intellect, I found myself tiring of him. He really made a number of knuckleheaded moves with his career and women so much so that, at times, he seems to fall far too short of the heroic stature that I'm sure Stendahl intended for him. The women, whom he frequently spurned, seemed to me far superior characters in their nobility than Fabrizio. I did find shades of Lord Byron's &quot;Prisoner of Chillon&quot; in some aspects of the irony of his finding solace in his imprisonment. I kept hoping that the Duchess and he would become a permanent item and Stendahl kept me guessing on the plot twists. The novel was written in only about seven weeks, which is a fairly remarkable creative outpouring. Considering the big rush the writing is quite good but I wonder why he hastened the creative execution to such an extreme. Great writing usually just doesn't emerge in such a brief span and speed is not conducive to quality, as most of the hacks on bestseller lists in America conclusively prove. The Red and the Black is just so much more finished and impressive as a novel than Charterhouse, which struck me in places as contrived and unlikely and tried my willing suspension of disbelief to the point at which I found myself saying, &quot;Come on, Fabrizio, grow up.&quot; Stendahl is a master of the epigram and there are plenty here to savor, moreso in the context of courtly life in Red and the Black, perhaps. The landscape was beautifully rendered by Stendahl in Lake Como. His portrait work with his characters is quite good. If you only intend to read one of Stendahl's novels, then I recommend The Red and the Black. But if you've read and enjoyed it, odds are that the Charterhouse of Parma will also hold you in its spell. Charterhouse, however, falls just shy of greatness because it was so rushed, I think, and Red and the Black is a masterpiece that justly ranks Stendahl with Balzac, Moliere, Flaubert and Zola.mmend The Red and the Black. But if you've read and enjoyed it, odds are that the Charterhouse of Parma will also hold you in its spell. Charterhouse, however, falls just shy of greatness because it was so rushed, I think, and Red and the Black is a masterpiece that justly ranks Stendahl with Balzac, Moliere, Flaubert and Zola.	2004-02-14
US	51726843	R13D9A96GG4J4T	0140447644	691474875	The Red and the Black (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	46	52	N	N	It's all there in black and white.	The Red and the Black is a profound and witty book about the rise of a poor, handsome and intellectually gifted, young provincial into the salons of High Society in Paris. This novel is also a portrait of an era in 19th century France after the exile of Napoleon to St. Helena. The powerful, witty epigrams that appear in page after page of gorgeous prose left me almost as intrigued by the talent of the author as by the unexpected twists in the exhausting love life and fascinating careers in church and state of Julian Sorel. The language of the Gard translation was truly a joy to read -- it was lyrical and rich. Stendhal's novel is an astonishing but lesser read masterpiece from the salons of Paris, which produced Moliere, Balzac and Proust to name only a few. I can't recommend highly enough this worthy and rapturous novel by Stendhal. If this is Al Gore's favorite novel, then my respect for him has gone up a notch.	2004-01-31
US	51726843	R30KXSAPBRNZDT	0385507631	788476613	Office of Innocence: A Novel (Keneally, Thomas)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Powerful Work by a Gifted Writer	Frank Darragh's tale is an ancient one dealing with the perils of innocence in a society where paradise is not only lost but long gone. He is a priest living in rural Australia trying his best to be ethical and human at a time when it appeared that the Japanese were about to invade Australia during World War II. It's painful in places to see where Darragh takes his good faith and how the world and his church make him pay for it. Keneally weaves the tale artfully and takes the big questions head-on. His language is spare but he is able to paint living vistas and round characters in only a few well-drawn brush strokes. His writing is compelling as much for its art as for his considerable skills as a gifted story-teller. I was dazzled by this novel and am confident that Keneally is destined for great acclaim as a novelist who possesses a commanding presence on the contemporary literary landscape.	2004-01-14
US	51726843	R1INUGCA992079	0140434941	976358997	David Copperfield (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A tale well told	Dickens sets out to tell a complex tale about his life and narrates from the first-person in this very personal story. He manages adeptly to keep the story line fresh, surprising and his story-telling talent is superb. The Tempest Chapter was particularly well written, I thought. Copperfield has such a positive, reasonable outlook, despite episodes of ghastly poverty and tragedy, that it's nearly impossible not to empathize with him and respect his integrity. Because the reader genuinely likes Copperfield, David's setbacks and later good fortune really seem to matter. There are a great many, some may say too many, lines of dialogue in Dickens that no human would ever actually speak. The narrative is straight-ahead and traditional so that despite its length the pages of the novel fly by quickly. His young women tend to fall into stereotypes of beautiful objects of desire. However, his range of characterization elsewhere throughout the novel showed great invention. I didn't find Uriah Heep a truly compelling villain but was genuinely surprised by his destiny. Like many of Balzac's characters, the heroes of Dickens seem to weep sentimentally at the drop of the hat and yet are cool under pressure. There really isn't much below the surface in this novel -- Dickens is neither Proust nor Joyce -- but rather offers just basically a good engaging story. Dickens' power as a story-teller made him wildly popular in his time and esteemed in the 150 years since this novel was published. His heyday was a particularly germinal time for British literature and Dickens through his prolific writing certainly gave us the benefit of a workman like portrait of his era. It's a satisfying classic -- read it for the story line.	2003-12-30
US	51726843	RH4J10YBPH28A	0312422156	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Maybe there's hope for American literature.	At a time when publishers are driven by bottom lines and commercial interests in the industry have spawned unprecedented and even shameless literary mediocrity, i.e. Stephen King and the National Book Award (God help us!), the Pulitzer Committee got it right this time in Middlesex. Eugenides is the real thing: this epic novel is immensely inventive, witty, engaging and written with a literary originality that provided one of the most satisying reads in many months. Middlesex explores new ground and there is an undeniable profoundity when Cal says that s/he is \\"what's next.\\" This novel is a memorable character-driven tale in which every figure is uniquely scuplted with  three-dimensional qualities that breathe life into them. The dialogue is true to life and the story line gets high marks for its ambitious, risk-taking and off-the-charts creativity. This novel will be remembered years from now for the daring literary high ground that Eugenides has claimed by virtue of the talent evident in his insightful and distinctive literary voice. Maybe there's hope for contemporary American literature, after all.	2003-11-23
US	51726843	R2Q1Z075XX18R7	0060930055	797221870	You Can't Go Home Again	Books	4	33	35	N	N	Autobiography as Ficton	&quot;You Can't Go Home, Again&quot; is really not so much a work of fiction as an autobiography in which the names of characters have been changed. Wolfe seemed unapologetic about the baldly autobiographical nature of his work. However, some may perceive his autobiography as evidence of a certain lack of creative reach and an aversion to creative risk-taking on his part. Wolfe's life was so deeply and richly lived in a relatively short period and so lyrically written that his autobiography reads as vibrantly as fiction. There are moments when Wolfe is brilliant and dazzling in describing moments of almost biblical epiphany. I suppose it's a good thing for Wolfe that he dove so deeply into his own life as it was tragically brief but intensely experienced and elegantly articulated: he managed to cram a great deal into his short lifespan. Wolfe reads quite a bit like Proust and in this novel the sentences in some places are nearly as long as the syntax of Proust. Wolfe could well be considered the Proust of the American South. Writers will especially value this work and it pays to read to the end as Wolfe's last novel is particularly revealing in its power and optimism and lyricism at its close: &quot;What befalls man is a tragic lot. There is no denying this in the final end. But we must deny it all along the way. Mankind was fashioned for eternity.&quot; In the end Wolfe finds a comfortable home upon a promontory point in America's literary landscape. To understand the life of the writer in America at the outset of the 20th century during a Golden Age for the novel I recommend this worthy and enduring gem of that era.	2003-09-18
US	51726843	R2PTT9PKQ4D9GZ	0684804433	296077082	Look Homeward, Angel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Dixie Bildungsroman	When Thomas Wolfe is at his best, his writing is inspired, lyrical and athletic. Clearly, the work may be considered by some to be self-indulgent as the story line stays pretty close to home. Home is located in the hills of western North Carolina at his mother's boarding house, Dixieland. When a writer is fixed on his or her autobiography, and in Wolfe's case this involves his childhood, early youth and college education, the writing seems more non-fiction than fiction. This story is essentially Wolfe's autobiography like a novel from Proust. I wished that his jazz riffs from his personal experience were somewhat more improvizational and that he had ventured a bit further in his storyline as often this is a sign of immature talent in a novelist. But Wolfe's theme is home, after all, and if you enjoy coming-of-age stories, then you can savor this one. Wolfe does prove his real talent when he gets caught up in the mysticism of the moment and to his credit when he does so, his prose launches into a higher angelic ionosphere. His vocabulary is impressive and the writing, in many places, is so good that I found myself slowing down simply to savor the beauty of his use of language. Wolfe was relatively young when he wrote this novel and it brims with idealism and vitality and energy. This novel is an American classic of the South and well worth the reading for Wolfe's pure lyricism alone.	2003-06-14
US	51726843	R19SY7F6QGKKQK	0374525749	627065254	The Odyssey	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Beyond the test of time	This epic poem of Homer is nearly 3,000 years old -- if it weren't worth reading, then it would have died in oblivion ages ago. This enduring work has been the inspiration for James Joyce because it touches upon great truths about humanity. The wandering of Odysseus home after the war with Troy is full of those personal battles that still must be fought on the battlefield of everyday existence. In this epic poem Homer takes on the great themes of fidelity, homecoming, overcoming hardship through persistance and ingenuity, life's fickle nature, the treachery and dignity of men. This poem is about the enduring power of a man's love for his wife and family despite the hardships of distance and isolation. It's about doing battle with powerful demons and omnipotent gods with very human aspects, often with inhuman faces, living invisibly in one's very midst. It's about a man re-inventing himself until he finds the right road that delivers him from defeat and death. It's about what counts in life -- friendship, honor, love, loyalty, family, home and intelligent action. The lyrical nature of Homer's writing and Fitzgerald's translation is enthralling and lovely and memorable. This epic goes well beyond the test of time -- it's more than just a benchmark -- it serves to continue to inspire those who read it. Read Homer's Odyssey -- it can help you immensely to better understand your own.	2003-04-15
US	51726843	R3235ZYTR99HSU	0375701907	635714194	Straight Man: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Get it?	The novel is droll, dry, wry, witty. An endless stream of one-liners and punchlines that roll off the tongue of William Henry Devereaux, Jr., an English professor at a state college in central Pennsylvania. Having read Empire Falls, the protagonist in this novel is more proactive, decisive and optimistic. I enjoy the good natured wit of Russo and the way that he rounds off his story lines like a refreshing ellipse. His characters are fully drawn and unique individuals with eccentricities and nuances that distinguish them in their behavior and speech. My only criticism is one that Russo leveled against his own protagonist: sometimes, he is a bit too much of a &quot;clever man.&quot; I liked the leitmotif of Occam's Razor throughout the novel. One of his best characters is, unfortunately, a woman we saw too little of in this novel -- Henry's wife, Lily. Though not as powerful or profound as Empire Falls, the consistent wit of Straight Man makes it well worth the price of admission. I recommend that you get Russo -- Straight Man is a keeper.	2003-01-03
US	51726843	R1C6W246MHG3V9	0060175699	567607924	A Simple Habana Melody: (from when the world was good)	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Simply beautiful	The writing in this novel about the musical career of a Cuban composer is itself lyrical. The narrative is prose that aspires to be, and is, both poetry and music. The phrasing and the flow of the syntax is melodious as the composer's experience, because of his name, in a Nazi concentration camp runs counterpoint to the theme. And \\"Rosas Puras\\", his most famous and enduring composition, reappears faithfully as a leitmotif throughout the narrative. El Gordito, Israel Levis, and his close relationships with Rita Valladares (singer), Manny Cortez (composer)and his family are full of tender and touching moments. He is simply a man on a quest to find the beauty of life, the music hidden just beneath its surface and awaiting his discovery of its simple melodies. His devotion to his music can be a demanding mistress whom he has no choice but to love with pure devotion and ultimately proves to be his salvation. Hijuelos reinforces his stature as one of America's most supremely talented writers in this sensuously rich and sonorous novel. The close of the book holds moments of heartbreaking tenderness without sentimentality. A Simple Habana Melody is original, germinal, mesmerizing and sung in a distinctive, if not unique, lyrical voice that could only be proffered by a truly gifted writer of the stature of Oscar Hijeulos.	2002-11-25
US	51726843	RJTQOQY84838B	037570728X	175582861	Half a Life: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The quest for identity	I read this novel as the search for and acceptance of the essence of one's true identity. This is a quest upon which Naipaul himself, no doubt, embarked, after his birth in Trinidad, education in England at Oxford, and life in Africa. The challenge of his protagonist is, having been born a \\"backwards\\", to understand and accept his real essence as a human being. He tends to approach this existential task by entangling himself in the lives of other people only to find that their lives bring him no closer to the truth about himself. He discovers that he cannot to his own self be true simply by living the lives of others. The characters, setting and imagery in Half a Life are memorable and the narration enjoys a frankness that engenders respect. While this is a very fine work by V.S. Naipaul, it suffers somewhat by comparison to A House for Mr. Biswas, which is a truly brilliant novel. What does one do for an encore after one writes a real masterpiece? If you haven't read it yet, you may want to try it first. All the acclaim of Naipaul is justified: he can really write and Mr. Biswas is hands-down his finest work. I recommend that you go for Mr. Biswas and then, if you like it, circle back to worthy but somewhat less daunting works like Half a Life -- unless you prefer a toe-in-the-water approach with this Nobel Prize winner. One really can't go wrong with V.S. Naipaul except not to read him.	2002-11-15
US	51726843	R3ZJHELJ2A06H	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Wicked good.	Empire Falls is a beautifully crafted, inventive and substantive character-driven novel. Having lived in college for four years in a milltown in Central Maine, in places, the novel seemed almost more realistic than the actuality of dwelling in the fabric of the milltown. That's possible only because Richard Russo has a talent for making both his vividly sketched blue-collar and blue-blooded characters really come alive. The credible story line is unafraid to assume some creative risks and the result is breath-taking imagery that lingers. Russo really succeeds in building a small town of his unique characters and tells the story so that we see them realistically through the eyes of the fellow citizens of Empire Falls. The storyline holds more than its fair share of surprises with a truly inventive twist at the close of the novel. The author's sanguine sense of humor carries one along as the plot gathers steam and the different threads become entangled in realistic and usually satisfying resolutions. Russo may owe homage to Elizabeth Strout for his portrait of ordinary life in a Maine milltown. The river itself ultimately proves itself a formidable player in the cast of Empire Falls. Russo seems to sum-up the lives of his characters this way: &quot;Lives are rivers. We imagine we can direct their paths, though in the end there's but one destination, and we end up being true to ourselves only because we have no choice.&quot; Empire Falls offers living proof that character is destiny. Perhaps, that's one of many reasons why this novel is so &quot;wicked good&quot; that it justly earned a Pulitzer Prize.	2002-11-07
US	51726843	R3ASY7ZXJL2XOV	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Hopelessly contrived denouement	If someone had handed this brief novel to me without telling me its author, I would have guessed it was the work product of another Booker Award winner, J.M Coetzee. Booker judges appear to favor novelists who write taut, economical and hopeless tales. While Amsterdam evidences a master craftsman's work in the use of the language, the denouement challenges even a good faith effort at the willing suspension of disbelief. The contrived close is impossibly, fatally flawed by its farfetched implausbility despite the remarkable set-up by the author. The author evidences extraordinary skill in his minimalist style. With only a few brush strokes the characters come alive and are true to life. I haven't read a more lush or imaginative rendering of the composition of music since Proust's rich renderings of the &quot;little sonata&quot; of Vinteuil as played by Morel. Bag the Bookers and turn instead to Pulitzer winners, who seem to offer some semblance of a glimpse of hope for humanity.	2002-10-19
US	51726843	R1VXM79DFF82IH	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	5	4	7	N	Y	I stand corrected	In the New Yorker a few weeks ago Jonathan Franzen wrote an article in which he classified writers into two groups: 1) Status Writers, who write for the sake of their art alone (Flaubert, Goethe); 2) Contract Writers, who make a pact with their readers and feel a duty to deliver writing attuned to their needs (Any Best-Selling Writer). Franzen claims to be a Contract Writer with his readers' sentiments uppermost in mind. And yet we have constructions like \\"electro-pointillist Santa Claus faces\\" and \\"pixilated middle distance\\" to name just a few. The reason this novel resonates for me is that Franzen manages to be both a Contract and a Status Writer. That is, he gives his readers credit for their intelligence and yet he paints character portraits with fearlessly unblushing and unapologetic realism. The characters drive the story line, which is a mark of great writing. While I personally prefer Status Writers, as they simply seem to offer more enduring literature, Franzen really can write and seems to have layered his work so there's something for everyone in The Corrections. As Franzen's own father suffered in real life like Alfred, Franzen was unafraid to look the devil squarely in the eyes and take on this \\"correction\\" as a creative theme. I'm glad that the hardships of my own life can be viewed as mere corrections -- surely, they have been instructive and in a stock market phrase sooner or later inevitably revert to their mean. This novel is a marker for the malaise of the contemporary American family. The novel's layered quality in construction will ensure both its enduring literary prominence and widespread popular appeal.	2002-10-15
US	51726843	R3RPQVW4JK3DHF	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Jazz Age Classic, Old Sport	The Great Gatsby is a classic novel of the Jazz Age about aspiration in America. As V.S. Naipaul was recently quoted in the NY Times Book Review: &quot;The only valuable life is one that is shaped by the anguish of aspiration and that is engaged in a struggle against the void of nonachievement.&quot; Gatsby's life personifies the aspiration of a young man who has just returned from World War I so poor that he wore his uniform after his discharge because he couldn't afford to buy new clothes. Through his own entrepreneurial talents he rises to attain an immense fortune, which he hopes will renew the affection of his much beloved object of desire, Daisy Buchanan. She once jilted him because of his abject poverty and married another wealthy man. Now that Gatsby is rich, he wants Daisy to become his wife at any price. He asks her to forsake her relationship to her wealthy, philandering husband. The denouement of the novel is opulent in its irony. Gatsby's demise and the response of his many friends to it is truly memorable. Fitzgerald as Nick Carraway is an intelligent, articulate, noble and faithful narrator in this great American novel. At a time when so much focus has been placed on the hubris of American CEOs, the message of this novel about the unbridled pursuit of material wealth plays with as much high fidelity now as it did in the Jazz Age. This brief but important and beautifully crafted novel is a must-read for anyone who seeks to know the best work of one of America's most legendary writers.	2002-09-20
US	51726843	R2DWPYX1TBUFXK	0375753125	715428078	Time Regained: In Search of Lost Time, Vol. VI (Modern Library Classics) (v. 6)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A novel for all Time	In this final life's work of Proust on the theme of the passage of Time it's clear that the author is riper, near to death and concerned about the lasting impact of his writing. \\"Eternal duration is promised no more to men's works than to men.\\" Yet there is so much beauty and substance and lyricism in his 4,300 pages clearly his volumes are, both individually and collectively, a masterwork for the ages. The novel seems more like an autobiography in which the names of persons and places have been changed to protect the innocent (and the gulity). Because of his theme, Marcel constantly returns to the events of his life to gain some semblance of understanding of them. In this volume he is concerned with the effect of the world war upon Paris. The familiar characters of Gilberte and Bloch happily emerge again to center stage and, as always, Charlus and Morel. Because of his failing health and self-exile from society, he must have known that he had little Time to tie up all the loose ends and that another volume would not be in the offing after this one. Indeed, he never lived to see this volume in print. By virtue of his failing health the pressing nature of his last years lend a poignancy to the themes of this volume so that it stands out among the other works when Time was full of budding possibilities and had not ultimately become a dreaded adversary. In this volume Proust picks up the leitmotifs that thread their way through this remarkable tapestry in his walks down various ways and he brings them all to a meaningful end. The story lines are surprisingly simple and easy to follow and there is so much enduring value in his masterfully articulated \\"impressions.\\" I decided to commit Time a few months ago to read all of Proust's work --it was Time well spent. I can't encourage you enough to make a similar investment. The work is truly a Timeless masterpiece from one of the real geniuses of his day and through it Proust has justly earned his immortality, his worthy prominence among the best literary minds of all Time.inence among the best literary minds of all Time.	2002-09-04
US	51726843	RPHABSMTWDZYD	0375753117	863473949	The Captive & The Fugitive: In Search of Lost Time, Vol. V (Modern Library Classics) (v. 5)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Captivating masterpiece	Modern Library's Volume V deals with the relationship between Marcel and Albertine. It is a complex, psychological relationship to say the least. In the Captive, Albertine lives with Marcel in his apartment in Paris and in The Fugitive one wonders who is, in fact, more captive -- Albertine or Marcel. It would seem to be Albertine for whom Marcel possesses an obsessive love and concurrent fear of her sapphic penchant. But it is also Marcel who will sacrifice experience if he makes a commitment to her. Who is more free, the captive or the fugitive? Proust raises questions about how to serve best the artist's quest for beauty. In fact, how does one really ever \\"capture\\" the beauty of life in art or music or literature? Even in a masterpiece, is it not beauty the fugitive that usually dwells just beyond one's capture? Or like Vinteuil's septet or the music of Wagner or the painting of Rembrandt, is the best for which one can hope of fugitive beauty only a brief fleeting experience? Are the vast tracts of time spent to understand the beauty and meaning of life worth it? As a writer does he not habitually surrender life in order to capture it? Or is the pursuit of the capture of the beauty of life in fact where one realizes its most sublime value? One sees in Proust toward the end of The Fugitive a member of society who respects it but chooses by reasons of health not to position himself so visibly within it. Despite his family name and vast but dwindling fortune inherited from his beloved grandmother, he seems to become somewhat ultimately disenchanted with the intricacies of Faubourg-St. Germain society to which he devotes so much of his writing. He recognises society's shallow obsession with materialism and rampant snobbery but his own place in society is captured by its complex history and tacit rules and Marcel is inescapably a captive of his own culture. When Albertine is lost to him toward the end of the volume, as in the prior volumes, the story line's serial intrigue advances most. Characters from prior volumes reappear, reminiscent of Balzac, whom Proust adored, but like him they change,too, and usually for the worse over time. The great tapestry of the characters of Proust -- Albertine, Gilberte, Swann, Brichot, Bloch, Charlus, Morel, Saint-Loup -- ultimately surprise and usually disappoint him. As to nagging questions about Proust's own orientation, \\"Personally I found it absolutely immaterial from a moral standpoint whether one took one's pleasure with a man or a woman, and only too natural and human that one should take it where one could find it.\\"  I found myself wishing that Proust had written more about Bloch and Saint-Loup and Gilberte, and less about Albertine. But she was, like his work, the one obsession, the endeavor of which understanding he could never escape and never quite marry -- she was his beauty and his art. She was the breath of life itself from his pen and from his experience of life as seen through the eyes of a true genius.igue advances most. Characters from prior volumes reappear, reminiscent of Balzac, whom Proust adored, but like him they change,too, and usually for the worse over time. The great tapestry of the characters of Proust -- Albertine, Gilberte, Swann, Brichot, Bloch, Charlus, Morel, Saint-Loup -- ultimately surprise and usually disappoint him. As to nagging questions about Proust's own orientation, \\"Personally I found it absolutely immaterial from a moral standpoint whether one took one's pleasure with a man or a woman, and only too natural and human that one should take it where one could find it.\\"  I found myself wishing that Proust had written more about Bloch and Saint-Loup and Gilberte, and less about Albertine. But she was, like his work, the one obsession, the endeavor of which understanding he could never escape and never quite marry -- she was his beauty and his art. She was the breath of life itself from his pen and from his experience of life as seen through the eyes of a true genius.	2002-08-04
US	51726843	R15OB15TSPYCX2	0679600299	674102062	In Search of Lost Time, Volume 4: Sodom and Gomorrah	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Proust's Human Comedy	Some have accused Proust of being &quot;long-winded.&quot; However, he suffered acutely from shortness of breath but not shortness of breadth. Proust preferred to work on a large canvas. Having read the first four volumes of &quot;In Search of Lost Time,&quot; I am even more convinced that Proust is a literary talent of the highest order. He is a writer of immense sensibility in the true sense of the word. His perception and memory and intelligence permeate his writing. Like Balzac, whom he admired, Proust focused his sensibility upon high society in Paris in his heyday. He continually discoursed about the the manners of the circles in which he moved and sheds light, as did Balzac, on the complexities of the strata and protocol and behavior of his social peers. One is able to get a close look at this realm in which he was considered a literary luminary and rightly so, after winning France's greatest literary prize at such an early age. Like Balzac he built his volumes in a &quot;serial&quot; fashion by ending each in dramatic fashion: the characters reappear from volume to volume. And one learns about their health, their misfortunes, their affairs often through the hearsay of other characters, as it happens in real life. Despite the despicable ways that the characters often treat each other, Proust speaks within the tapestry of the &quot;human comedy&quot; as the humble voice of reason. &quot;When you  reach my age you will see that society is a paltry thing, and you will be sorry that you put so much importance to these trifles,&quot; a judge observes. But for Proust society was his life and his legacy is partly at least the light that he sheds upon his own human comedy. The beauty of the language is breathtaking --the language is utterly lyrical and once one surrenders to the pulse and flow of his long sentence syntax, one finds the transforming genius of his art. I am eager to begin Volume 5 -- the man is a bonafide genius. He deals with sensitive subjects in good taste and with sage discretion -- Proust communicates with his readers as he probably did in society: honestly, articulately and with the best of all manners. He didn't live long enough to read the publication of half the volumes of his greatest masterpiece: Volume 4 was the last he lived to see published. What an absolute pity!d taste and with sage discretion -- Proust communicates with his readers as he probably did in society: honestly, articulately and with the best of all manners. He didn't live long enough to read the publication of half the volumes of his greatest masterpiece: Volume 4 was the last he lived to see published. What an absolute pity!	2002-06-15
US	51726843	R1JU9NIDPPCRW0	0375751548	674102062	In Search of Lost Time: Swann's Way, Vol. 1	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Astonishing literary experience	A man seeking to connect with the meaning of his life discovers a new theory on the reality of time. It seems that time is not traditionally linear but rather, in truth, humans are subject to triggers, as simple as a madeleine and a cup of tea, which can send one unwittingly hurtling into the past. Depending upon the associations one may have with such triggers, the journey may be pleasant or painful. But in order to understand where we have traveled, one must revisit the past and surge existentially against the people and places, lovers and friends, the art and music and society, which influence our lives. Otherwise, the mysteries of life may escape one's sense and sensibility. Proust's syntax is a mile long and if you demand a structured plot, you are likely to be disappointed by this novel. However, the beauty of the language is not of this world: it is surreal, lyrical, dreamlike, entrancing, astonishing. I recommend that you simply surrender to Proust's supreme gift for the language and drift along on the pure beauty of the language alone. This novel represents the early work of a genius and no matter what biases one may proffer about the writer, there is little doubt that the writing is one of a kind. Proust is on my Top 10 Writers of All Time List: perhaps, only James Joyce has a signature maximalist literary style as unique and creatively rich as Proust. I hope you venture to read this somewhat daunting novel -- it's one of the truly great ones.	2002-04-13
US	51726843	R7LCC65XLU1BB	0140442510	998141222	Lost Illusions (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	54	56	N	Y	Sacre bleu, the man can write!	As much as I enjoyed Pere Goriot, Lost Illusions is the kind of a literary work that lets you peer into the soul of a great mind and dwell there. Just as Lucien was Balzac, the lost poet, David Sechard, the printer, is also Balzac the craftsman in real life: he bought a print shop in Paris to print his own novels. Sechard is much like the scientist in the Quest of the Absolute, except that David ultimately finds himself through his invention and the inventor in The Quest becomes lost to his own monomania. As Balzac wrote of Lucien: \\"He's not a poet, this young man: he's a serial novel.\\" And so it's time to find out what happens to Lucien after this novel in his return to Paris. The characters of his novels keep reappearing in scenes from one novel to the next, which is wonderful. However, they seem to change as one sees them through different eyes. Delightful young Rastignac in Pere Goriot becomes a rather unscrupulous mean-spirited character in Lost Illusions. Balzac has built an entire society of his characters and as varied as they are, they are all also him and show the great diversity and depth of his personality and sensitivity. Like Galsworthy, Balzac wanted to build an interconnected society of characters who are so human that it's easy to understand why they behave as they do. The realism is striking and magnificent and always rings true. Balzac works hard despite the realism to spin out of every hardship a redemption and out of every malignity a comic side that's all too human. The comedy and irony are rich in Balzac in his passionate account of life in Paris in high society and the challenges that it thrusts upon every ideal. This is the best work of Balzac that I have read so far out of four novels of his. It's such great writing, and the energy of the translator can make a difference, that Balzac keeps one coming back for more. But the writing and wit and wisdom are so extraordinary, I am happy to accommodate him. Anyone who has ever aspired to write and publish prose in New York will identify with Balzac's Lucien: Lost Illusions is a novel that aspiring writers especially may find intriguing.d publish prose in New York will identify with Balzac's Lucien: Lost Illusions is a novel that aspiring writers especially may find intriguing.	2002-02-26
US	51726843	R28DORSOD6JP7Q	0192835696	525889886	Pre Goriot (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The human comedy of Parisian society	Balzac was a most enthusiastic participant of high society in Paris in his heyday principally because it yielded so many characters for his human comedy. Despite the artifice of glamor, wealth and nobility, a young attorney named Rastignac learns that it is shallow, materialistic and vain beyond all sense. Aspiring to make a name for himself, Rastignac stays in a bording house where he meets old Goriot, a vermicelli merchant with two daughters prominent in Paris society. Like King Lear, Goriot loved his two beautiful daughters but cannot control them and eventually they drain him of all his wealth, refusing to visit him even when he's on his deathbed. Balzac points out that tailors in Paris made more men successful than any other influence. The women who adorned high society were often fighting economic desperation, pawning jewelry and fighting stingey and unfaithful husbands who abandon them. Rastignac is fascinated but repulsed by high society -- probably much like Balzac himself. The writer pours himself emtoionally into his stories, occasionally guilty of being overly sentimental -- the men in difficult or tragic situations easily and frequently shed tears. Balzac painted hundreds, if not thousands, of portraits of the French of his time in his epic human comedy. Not that much has changed really, as far as the human comedy goes. In his garret in Paris writing in the quiet of the late night and early morning, this great and prolific writer has left an astonishing legacy of profound, realistic and wise fiction. From his work it's possible to be transported to Balzac's time and find oneself deeply engaged in his human comedy. Clearly, Balzac is one of France's most important writers and Pere Goriot is certainly one of his finest works. Therefore, to experience Balzac, one couldn't find a more inspired entree in Pere Goriot.	2002-02-09
US	51726843	RKPX9H4WOMG1K	0375724834	352044771	Motherless Brooklyn	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Highly inventive and well written contemporary fiction	Lionel Essrog must rank as one of the most original narrators of a novel in contemporary fiction. He deals in good faith with his Tourette's syndrome, gently educating us, amid the harsh and brutal reality of Brooklyn. Essrog is a kind of existential orphan in a motherless city. He is consumed with finding order, patterns, balance, symmetry and controlling urges to scream his innermost sensibilities in public. His friends call him &quot;Freak Show&quot; and yet he has one of the most endearing narrative voices in modern fiction -- gentle, highly intelligent, vulnerable and humane, like Billy Pilgrim in Slaughterhouse Five. Essrog rides through New York's subways noting how they offer a structure and canvass for irrepressible, subterranean human expressions like his. The protagonist seeks and finds the hidden gems of beauty that lie well hidden in the harsh starkness of the city. The characters like the city are original and real with freakish overtones which stop short of stereotypes. The novel is steeped in the language, street culture and underground economy that is Brooklyn. The plot is entertaining, the dialogue is authentic and the octopus joke is hilarious. The author does a great job weaving an intricate plot structure of apparently unconnected forces that come together naturally and masterfully. The word play through Essrog's Tourettic sensibilities were lyrical, poetic and even Joycean in places. I really enjoyed this novel's gritty urban realism and its flashes of real comic wit from a highly talented and inventive writer. This is a great piece of contemporary literature that's a genuine pleasure to read.	2001-12-19
US	51726843	R28YVBDFHQ72PX	0192838628	318101768	The Forsyte Saga (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	59	62	N	N	A Nobel saga	The writing evident in this epic is masterful and engaging: it is even and substantive and elegant. The rich irony about the lengths that men strive to acquire property in all its forms and then find their acquisitions useless, meaningless and certainly not worth the price. Galworthy was focused upon property in so many different varieties: the sense of possession that men had of their wives in his time amid archaic laws about divorce; the building of a home that ends in unexpected expense in chancery; the elusive value of works of art; the subtleties of property from family crests, clubs, colleges and occupational status and cuts of mutton to the blatant futility of fighting over land in South Africa during the Boer War -- it's all shallow and empty materialism in the end. The property is never worth the cost of the trouble to acquire it. Young people slave to gather possessions only to regret in old age that they have traded so much of life away to gain them and must undergo the painful rigors of its redistribution through wills after death. Galsworthy seemed to me like a sort of British Tolstoy writing in England for property reform. Because when property is involved, men tend to objectify about it and in the course of things they tend to lose their sense of humanity. This troublesome pattern of life seems to repeat itself often like a lesson men never learn -- as the objectifying I-It relationship of Martin Buber replaces the humane I-Thou. Yes, it's a long novel but when the writing is this compelling in its style and substance, you can luxuriate in the beauty and wisdom of the words. Every character is finely and individually drawn like a character in a Velasquez portrait of a large family. You may regret that this edition isn't longer when it ends but fortunately there is more of his work in which to indulge. Galsworthy's work earned him a Nobel Prize -- it's easy to see the astonishing depth and range and virtuosity that the Nobel judges found in his writing. Don't pass up the chance to bask in this epic saga of Galsworthy. It's easily one of the top ten novels ever written in the English  language -- it's really that good.. Don't pass up the chance to bask in this epic saga of Galsworthy. It's easily one of the top ten novels ever written in the English  language -- it's really that good.	2001-12-14
US	51726843	RRUQNE0YP9FAN	0312244991	849514177	Wrong Information Is Being Given Out at Princeton: The Chronicle Of One Of The Strangest Stories Ever To Be Rumoured About Around New York	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Tender, comic, lyrical pointillism	J.P. Donleavy's narrative voice is unique. Setting him apart from all other writers. With a lyrical pointillism that is fragmented. Painting pictures of incredible poetic beauty. Sad and tender. And then, again, hilarious. Evoking all of one's senses. This tale is very New York. Where Donleavy was born. Before moving to Ireland, TCD and the Irish countryside. His subject, this time, is a starving composer living among wealthy friends and in-laws. Tormented by every woman he meets. Unable to understand just one of them. Even briefly. Bewildered by popular American culture. Which rains fortunes on untalented artists. Hiding the gifted in total obscurity. And starving them into anonymity. They await redemption. And recognition of their artistic merit. As the astonishing talents of Donleavy go unrecognized by the literary mainstream. Read Donleavy -- one of the most gifted and worthy and unheralded writers of our day.	2001-10-12
US	51726843	R3LLOLASW9T7EY	0802137962	857477292	The Beastly Beatitudes of Balthazar B	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Unique lyrical narrative voice	Balthazar B. is an aristocrat bewildered at every turn by life. His picaresque journey from Paris to Trinity College Dublin and visitations to country estates and among women of high and dubious social standing is hilarious to behold. The randy foil figure of Beefy may stand as one of the greatest comic figures since Shakespeare's Fat Jack Falstaff. The literary style of Donleavy is itself richly laden with lyricism and poetry and comedy. It is a uniquely pointillistic style in which brush strokes are applied to the canvas with precision and clarity in truncated and non-traditonal but accessible syntax. Like most truly great writers Donleany evokes all of the reader's senses in his work. He also succeeds in arousing sympathy, hilarity, tenderness, grief -- a full range of sensibilities that engage the reader. Each character is roundly drawn and speaks with a unique voice and range of experience. Donleavy's Ginger Man is named among the Random House Top 100 Novels of the 20th Century. He is a supremely talented story teller with an enchanting narrative style that will leave you wanting to read more. Don't miss this novel, The Destinies of Darcy Dancer, Gentleman and the Singular Man -- they are all pleasant and richly satisfying literary treasures.	2001-09-28
US	51726843	RTNDH5LT0WQSB	1563979314	640933069	Aero and Officer Mike: Police Partners	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A highly relevant children's book	Among the many heroes emerging within our society of late, we are beginning to learn more about the intelligence and acute senses of man's best friend. Aero and Mike as a team work toward noble ends in rescue work and in protecting society. This book explains to children, and their parents, the important role and value to society afforded by the astonishing sensibilities of incredibly gifted creatures like Aero and skilled, dedicated and heroic police officers like Mike. I highly recommend this beautifully written book at a time when, more than ever, our children need to feel that our society is deeply committed to their safety.	2001-09-28
US	51726843	R2ZSM801IDIFCF	0679450041	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Marvelous	The most genuine test of a truly great book is that one wishes it would never end. Such was the case for me with Kavalier and Klay. Chabon has written a most impressive and, I would venture, enduring novel: he's the real deal. I was impressed with the way in which the lives of Joe and Sammy became true reflections of the fantasy that they created in the Escapist, criticized as merely an easy escape from reality. &quot;He had escaped, in his life, from ropes, chains, boxes, bags, and crates, from handcuffs and shackles, from countries and regimes, from the arms of a woman who loved him, from crashed airplanes and an opiate addiction and from an entire continent intent on causing his death.&quot; I was amazed by the epic scope of Chabon's canvas in Prague, Antarctica and Gotham, and the ease with which the characters moved within their spheres. Chabon's writing entailed bold, simple strokes that rang true and he gave us characters about whom we could really care like Tommy and Rosa -- full-bodied, flawed, loving, wounded. His style had a grand pointillism, full of big dots like the pixels in comic books in their heyday. There is a marvelous sense of optimism in this work -- that man by craft, ingenuity, invention, intelligence, will and courage can extricate himself from overwhelming, corrupt and debilitating powers. There is much to respect in this great American novel: above all, beyond the undeniable talent that is evident in the opulently elegant writing, this book has heart. Chabon will be remembered as one of the great ones -- in Kavalier and Klay he has made his mark on the American literary landscape, which is in dire need of daring, epic, heroic voices.	2001-07-12
US	51726843	R31ZXSPQW5O4NQ	0679418962	397623101	Walden (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	27	31	N	N	Why we dwell in nature	&quot;I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived.&quot; I grew up in New England near Walden Pond and first read Thoreau's Walden in college. It has had a profound influence upon my life over the thirty years since then. One of the great tragedies of life in our time is that many people spend their lives working like slaves to accumulate wealth which is spent on things they don't need. And in the course of this pursuit of wealth, vast tracts of time are lost at great expense. Why? Some people may never have the epiphany that the pursuit of material wealth and the search for meaning are entirely separate and wealth doesn't guarantee that you live your life well or nobly or meaningfully. Thoreau knew this. He considered the townspeople of Concord to be slaves to their farms and herds and fields and houses. In the woods Thoreau became totally immersed in the process of living each day: he watched red and black ants fight an epic battle, which he described as having great depths of Homeric valor. He observed the color of the pickerel in Walden and the color of the ice in winter. And listened with disdain to the sound of the Fitchburg railroad as it whistled in the distance. He was a purely self-reliant human being having built his own cabin by hand and planting his own fields. This great American naturalist could look at a stand of trees and tell by observation the forces of nature it had experienced. Thoreau is profoundly wise and if you read Walden earnestly, it will change your life. I know that after I had read it, I was never the same person. Give it a chance to do the same for you. You may become transcendental, if you read it sincerely. And understand the importance of marching to the tune of a different drummer.	2001-06-01
US	51726843	R1N9XHASWN16D8	0140189424	227048468	Henderson the Rain King (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	A brilliant and endearing work by a literary master	For those who want to get into the work of Saul Bellow, this is perhaps one of his most accessible novels. It's about a rich and eccentric man who travels to Africa and encounters a tribal chief who own lions. The tribal chief is brilliant and teaches Henderson some valuable lessons. The encounters with the lion were real and vivid and moving. Henderson is vintage Bellow and is relatively easy to read: it has less of a scholarly bent than several of Bellow's other novels like Ravelstein, Herzog and Humboldt's Gift, all of which take the reader into a very high intellectual plane. This novel is existential: it's Bellow not so much him versus the intellectual premises of ancient scholars but is rather Bellow versus the raw power of the forces of life itself. I admire greatly this literary work which displays all of Bellow's virtuosity with the power that the reality of his experience brings into this story. I highly recommend this novel for anyone wanting to gain access into Bellow without having first to take a course in the philosophy of ancient scholars. This is Bellow at his most accessible and most powerful. I strongly encourage you to savor this great and highly original novel.	2001-05-21
US	51726843	R1Y4UGAHUL4WHN	0140296131	200647078	A Star Called Henry (The Last Roundup, Vol. 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Stunning Irish minimalism at its best	Roddy Doyle exhibits his penchant for creating power by using a narrative that is richly minimalist in his story about the Irish struggle beginning with the Easter 1916 Uprising in the General Post Office in Dublin. I had flashbacks to the maximalism of The Tin Drum by Gunter Grass, which also concerns a violent political standoff in a Post Office. Doyle's style is extremely accessible and vivid and powerful in the way that Hemingway created strength by his use of short, punchy syntax like a newspaper writer. Doyle worked hard in his research for this novel and he succeeded in transporting me back to another era. The dialogue was noteworthy: masterfully terse, dense and authentic. The characters, many of whom are historical figures from Easter 1916, despite their often hideous acts against the state and each other were round and fully drawn in only a few brush strokes: they usually evoked sympathy or compassion. It is a tale about the human spirit striving to free itself from the fetters of poverty and oppression despite the worst possible odds. I admire Doyle as a writer and respect his command of his craft. I encourage you to read this incredibly moving novel about a star named Henry, who seemed to me to embody the Ireland of his heyday -- this novel is a very fine and inventive work by one of the master storytellers of our time.	2001-04-07
US	51726843	RZJSYSJNQTEJN	0394711920	462911655	Appointment in Samarra	Books	4	14	16	N	Y	Big themes steeped in the idiom of the day	O'Hara's distinctive literary voice is both unique and disarming. For the first hundred pages I was unsure that O'Hara was even a competent writer, nevermind author of one of the century's great novels. His narrative technique and dialogue both are steeped in the jargon of his heyday, Prohibition Era, small town America. But O'Hara deals with big themes and the idiom of his day becomes secondary. He seems to want to take on big questions: why is the moth so driven to the flame? Why do we so willingly capitulate to baser instincts? Why can't we be satisfied, even happy with what we have? Why are we so often driven for more? More of what? At what price? Why are human beings insatiable? Julian English is an affluent man in his early thirties with a going business, a beautiful wife, Caroline, and social status in Gibbsville, a small town north and west of Philadelphia in Pennsylvania Dutch Country. His alcoholic habits drive him to dismantle every important social relationship in his life until he becomes essentially a social misfit, incapable of decent behavior among his family, friends, peers and colleagues. He seems determined to keep an appointment with death and has a death wish entombed in his heart. O'Hara's brief experimental flights with stream of consciousness propel us into the inner depths of his characters where we can feel their agony. His treatment of big themes with such a natural voice sets O'Hara apart. Be sure to experience this one of a kind American literary voice.	2000-10-06
US	51726843	R3ER3QIOCBROWL	0399146040	349365874	Mr Phillips	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An extraordinary novel about ordinary life	This novel falls under the currently popular theme of a day in an ordinary life. The danger of such a theme is that, even if it is well told, it will essentially represent an ordinary novel. Mr Phillips is an ordinary man who has been made redundant in his accounting job but hasn't the heart to tell his family he's been fired. So he pretends to go to work and wanders the streets of London until he determines how best to handle his professional demise. He is a rotund man in his fifties who wonders what lies ahead for him in the balance of his life. His mind is distracted by illusions and visions as he struggles to overcome the ordinary travails of working in a big city. We really get inside the head of Mr Phillips as we learn his sensual fantasies and proclivities. Other readers seem to have found his preoccupation with this subject rather too graphic; however, we must peel away the inedible leaves of the artichoke to get to the edible heart. Mr Phillips succeeds because this novel shows us the fullness and heart of a 20th century Everyman. We can identify with him in his struggle because Mr Phillips is many of us. Although many novels about ordinary life, like Joyce's Ulysses or Lowry's Under the Volcano, use stylistic innovation, even with the straight-ahead narrative technique of Lanchester, the novel vividly depicts one man's struggle to make sense of his life. There are some great gems in this novel: the writing is tight, densely packed and immensely readable. I look forward to the subsequent work of Mr. Lanchester -- I think he's onto something true and powerful and real in the scope of his work. I recommend Mr Phillips to you: it's only a little shy of great.	2000-09-24
US	51726843	RWA5H07S1YRS4	0060955228	535077019	Under the Volcano (Perennial Classic.)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Leo Bloom Stumbles South of the Border	Lowry's narrative technique is bold: here we have the tale of one half of  the last day in the life of a man who is drunk. He is a British Consul  living in Mexico beneath a volcano. The narrative captures the vision of  the drunk experiencing his life, which has become a Kubla Kahn. This can't  be easy to render: yet Lowry ambitiously does so in a true 20th century  masterpiece. The protagonist literally stumbles through his incoherent  existence like Leopold Bloom in the red light district of Dublin in James  Joyce's Ulysses. Great literature has been built upon the construction of  envisioning life through the eyes of a disoriented person for a brief  period of time. Love is hopelessly beyond his practical competence to  fulfill. &quot;While you're enjoying all this, do you realise the  extraordinary allowances being made for you by the world, which has to cope  with you?&quot; M. Laurelle asks him. The Consul chalks it up to his battle  against death or his &quot;battle for the survival of the human  consciousness.&quot; He views himself as a &quot;little soul holding up a  corpse.&quot; The Consul tries to make some sense of his life beneath the  volcano and its storm clouds amid a fiesta and a grotesque theft by a  pelado of bus fare from a dying man. Amid frequent flashbacks, there are  many moments in the vast self-imposed delusion of the Consul: &quot;In  spite of God's mercy I am still alone. Though my suffering seems senseless  I am still in agony. There is no explanation of my life.&quot; The story is  tragic: the writing is utterly exquisite. If you love great writing simply  for the sake of the writing itself and are prepared to journey into the  interior of a lost soul, you'll be rewarded for your persistence. We do  live under the volcano, after all, which could erupt at any time and sweep  us away in the course of its flow. Ah, we are free to make sense of life,  despite our bewilderment, as we will. Therein, lies our best hope and  redemption. I strongly encourage you to read this great novel: it's truly  memorable in the genius of its craft.rongly encourage you to read this great novel: it's truly  memorable in the genius of its craft.	2000-09-16
US	51726843	R27X7NOYO67E89	067973452X	286460989	Notes from Underground (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The first existential anti-hero	Dostoyesky's anti-hero is the the first of a long line of existential anti-heroes that followed later in the 20th century. Clearly, here is a man who is alienated from his bretheran. He has burrowed so deep internally  that he can not connect with outsiders. He is trapped by his superior  intellect and his heightened consciousness showers him with agony. He has  no clue how to relate to men and women of any social status. He is alone.  He foreshadows the players in the dramas of Samuel Beckett and Sartre. He  is Nietszche and Kierkegaard in the ways in which they experienced their  lives. He is The Stranger of Camus. He anticipates the 20th century  anti-hero of Nabokov in Lolita and protagonists like Billy Pilgrim in  Slaughterhouse Five by Kurt Vonnegut. Honest, brilliant, alienated,  articulate and alone. He finds it impossible to channel his intellect into  positive action: he lives in a state of paralysis. Most of all, the  anti-hero is Dostoyesky, the author, penning immortal lines of literature  from debtors prison. To understand clearly the influence of existentialism  in 20th century literature, one must first understand this germinal  literary classic.	2000-07-19
US	51726843	R2GSZQCKNBOV5W	0140444572	876619901	The Aeneid: A New Prose Translation (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Fortune favors the bold	David West renders this classical work accessible with a flare and sensibility that is truly rare. In so doing he brings this masterpiece from the realm of scholars into the hearts and minds of students worldwide. West  captures the pure power and scale and grandeur of Virgil through his  enormous talent for rendering epic poetry into prose. And for me the words  ring true through the accessible prose style of West. He is worthy of great  credit for opening this ancient, mystical tale of war and peace, adventure  and love, quest and conquest to students who can benefit from its richness.  In many ways Aeneas is an ideal man: smart, strong, bold and existentially  insatiable. Because so much can be learned from this one epic work, West  has done us a great favor in the  boldness of his vivid prose. Purists and  elitists may advocate looking elsewhere. But for my money, Virgil comes  alive in the fortunately forged prose of West. His rendering of this  astonishing tale has left an indelible mark for the better in my life.  Personally, I feel that I am a richer man intellectually because of the  talent with which West enabled me to connect with Virgil.	2000-06-11
US	51726843	R29DWHHYQ0Q241	067976402X	877433184	Snow Falling On Cedars	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Worthy of a PEN/Faulkner Award	This PEN/Faulkner winning novel employs a narrative technique that distinguishes it. The tale is told from the points of views of the cast of characters. From their viewpoints the tale unfolds and we come to know the characters themselves more intimately because of their roles in relating  the tale. Faulkner used this same approach in As I Lay Dying in which a  group of travelers narrate their perspectives in the course of arduous  travel. Chaucer likewise in The Canterbury Tales. The structure hinges  around the murder trial of a Japanese-American who fought on the European  front for the Allies during WWII. Unobtrusive flashbacks take us inside the  minds of the characters as the tale unravels in an otherwise straight-ahead  narrative style. The author's descriptions were quite beautifully moving  and complete and finely drawn. The allusions to the snowfall during a great  storm were a cohesive leitmotif repeated throughout the novel. The dialogue  was, I found, a little uneven and a few of the characters seemed a little  flat. However, the novel has heart and the primary characters rise to meet  the harsh crises that life sends their way with dignity and honor and  grace. The novel deals intelligently and unsentimentally about the subject  of bias during a painful epoch for Asian-Americans. I would rate the novel  between four and five stars: just shy of great for this appealing  mainstream novel.	2000-04-29
US	51726843	R3VALLZHU6L0CU	0679722025	873992849	A Bend in the River	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	Naipaul's journey into the heart of darkness	I suppose it's inevitable that readers will compare Naipaul's view of the bush to Joseph Conrad's. Naipaul portrays an ancient African civilization coming to grips with the intrusion of modern society thrust by economic boom into its midst. So the merchants and business traders take the steamer  up the river to a bend where the New Africa is emerging. However, deep and  primitive aggressions always seem to surface perhaps because they are so  imbedded into man's warrior instincts. And the New Africa cannot seem to  get beyond this to create a society in which peace and justice prevail. The  irony is that such qualities exist elsewhere among more advanced societies,  as well: society can't seem to transcend its own penchant for violence.  Perhaps, that's because beneath the veneer of the human persona there lies  a heart of darkness. Mankind's inability to cope with its brutality and  baser instincts represent a challenge not only in the bush. It's a  universal battle royal that Naipaul's insightful and brilliantly written  novel epitomizes. This author should be given serious consideration as a  Nobel laureate: his work over a period of decades is worthy of it.	2000-04-03
US	51726843	RLXXWS8DZFL4I	0871132893	850891422	The Destinies of Darcy Dancer, Gentleman	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Hilarious and sublime	JP Donleavy may well be the most hilarious writer on the planet. Darcy Dancer is a Bildungsroman about the coming of age of a young, educated member of the landed gentry in Ireland. He learns about love first- and  second-hand through the auspices of a broad range of tutors including the  brilliant Mr. Arland, a stablehand named Foxy, the sublime Miss Von B, the  artist Clarissa, school chums, butlers and Rashers Ronald. Kildare wanders  from one total fiasco of his own making to the next from the hunt and the  stables to the mansions of the gentry and private schools and Dublin high  society. He always emerges through chance and pluck and the kindness of  others none the worse for wear and perhaps slightly wiser. What are we to  make of this dubious young \\"gentleman\\"? As Kildare correctly  surmises: \\"Every madman thinks everyone else is mad.\\" Donleavy  writes with a unique pointillism, using words as brush strokes, that is  engaging, endearing and even breathtaking as each chapter ends on a brief  poetic note, a pithy line of stacked type. The dialogue is outrageously  real and human and uproarious. The character development is precise and  each character lives and breathes with a separate unique identity that only  a supremely talented writer can render so credibly. Having read nearly all his novels, Darcy Dancer is his best: it's truly a well-written, literary comedy. Discover JP Donleavy -- possibly one of the most under-rated and gifted writers of our era. You'll laugh your head off.	2000-03-12
US	51726843	R3JNMJQTY4L9CY	0140444173	748295604	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	An immortal work of epic scope	What are the thoughts of Napoleon as he crosses into Russia? How does he feel after advancing to Moscow to find it abandoned and ultimately aflame? If you were Kutuzov, the Russian Commander-in-Chief, how would you counter a military mind like Napoleon? If you were Tsar Alexander I, how would you  greet, or rather or not address, Napoleon demanding surrender of the city in  his quest for Asia? If you were a citizen of Russia and witness to this  battle of military titans like Tolstoy, how would you capture it on paper?  Who would have the audacity, the brilliance, the scope, the pure talent to  encompass such an epic and render it sensible? Tolstoy gets into the minds  of his epic cast and creates astonishing characters of people who shaped  the history of his day. He was Pierre Bezuhov, perhaps, more than anyone  and yet he was all of them. The miracle is that Tolstoy rarely ventured far  from his country estate. He barely glimpsed the high society about which he  wrote so convincingly, so authoritatively and so genuinely. This book makes  my all-time Top Five List: it's a supreme literary experience. Daunting  though it may seem by its sheer volume, I swear to you, it reads quickly  and the pages fly by as you become engrossed in this incredible epic tale.  The novel's straight-ahead narrative style is easy to comprehend once you  place the characters into proper perspective. Each figure is a gem crafted  by virtue of his or her character through Tolstoy's gifted portrait work.  The women are beautiful and deep, the men are bright and courageous, the  turbulent times were a crucible for them all. This is truly a one-of-a-kind masterpiece: it's one of life's great treasures. You owe it yourself  to take on this epic work: you will be generously rewarded for your own  ambition. You'll never forget it -- ever.	2000-03-12
US	51726843	R6FOHIFTI931J	0156004011	163921219	The Stone Raft	Books	5	31	32	N	Y	Exquisite allegory imaginatively narrated	I read The Stone Raft after Blindness and was immensely impressed by both novels. The story concerns the drift of the Iberian peninsula from the rest of Europe. The premise is intriguing as the stone raft sails into the  Atlantic heading for God only knows where. It shifts and turns so that  North is South and East is West. This crisis brings together the citizens  of Iberia challenged to prepare for the possibility the island will slam  into the Azores or Canada or the U.S. possibly leaving cities like New York, Boston and Philadelphia inland. The five main characters are brought  together by personal miracles and find  solace in each other as they  witness this drift. I found myself fighting the scientific plausibility of  such a phenomenon until I hit this quote: \\"We're already traveling on  a stone raft.\\" Indeed, the planet drifts through the galaxy just as  Saramago's stone navigates the currents of the sea. In Blindness I began to  realize that Saramago's writing style, devoid of quotation marks, is the  grammar of discovery, of a narration of characters trying to find their ways. In Blindness we are challenged to search the text for hints about who is speaking and where the author is venturing. Such a narrative style suits Saramago well as these two novels deal with the search for meaning in a chaotic universe. Such meaning inevitably seems to terminate with the sense we make out of each other. This is a great and wise novel, which I highly  recommend.	2000-03-12
US	51726843	RE829R4GHU2FL	0151002517	787923440	Blindness	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Nobel caliber allegory	Jose Saramago presents us with an interesting premise: what if suddenly a society were to become spontaneously and absurdly sightless? How would people respond to each other? What would happen to the structure of the  society? Would the powerful and those with weapons suddenly rule? Would the  jungle of Thomas Hobbes, in which life is brutish, nasty and short,  ultimately prevail? The beauty of the allegory is its stark truth and its  reality. I was reminded of the plight of concentration camp prisoners and  the people quarantined in The Plague by Camus. I sensed the influence of  the existentialists here in works like No Exit by Sartre and the absurdity  of Kafka also at play. The blind writer and the blindfolded religious icons  intrigued me. I personally don't see such involuntary blindness as total  but rather as blind spots. However, the premise of blindness, partial or  absolute, diminishes the malevolence of the human condition. Ultimately,  not only the realism and the skill with which the characters were drawn but  the writer's optimism and redemption made this book really work for me.  Saramago has shed new light on the human condition and for that he has made  a mighty contribution to literature.This is a memorable and remarkable work  -- I highly recommend this as a literary experience that will change your  perception of your fellow man.	2000-02-12
US	51726843	R299L8ZFE63V1M	0553580930	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great Epictetians	The first 772 pages of this novel may rank among some of the best American mainstream fiction ever written. Wolfe certainly took his time in creating his opus maximus and his work ethic is worthy of great respect. I had the  sense that Wolfe immersed himself in Atlanta society as the settings and  characters seemed incredibly true to life. Wolfe's ear for American dialect  showed great range and seemed unfailing in its ability to ring true. The  leitmotifs to Epictetus added substance to the work. However, Wolfe went  too far in the Epilogue and appears guilty of hubris in asking his devoted  readers to succumb to the willing suspension of disbelief that he had laid  at their feet. How can we accept the destinies Wolfe has shaped for the  great Charlie Croker and Conrad? The essence of the message of Charlie  Croker is wise and meaningful and truly American in the denouement. But he  strains our credibility which was so wonderfully created in Wolfe's art up  to the Epilogue. It would perhaps be the ultimate irony if the author in  crafting his novel were guilty of the same hubris of his protagonist.  Perhaps, if that's true, it only reinforces the verity of the tale and its  wisdom. While I have great respect for the writing of Tom Wolfe, sometimes  I just think he's too full of himself for words. Nevertheless, this is a  great American tale which I shall always remember. Wolfe is a great  American mainstream novelist.	2000-01-23
US	51726843	RJP0E97311LLE	0385240880	539488056	The Sot-Weed Factor	Books	5	38	40	N	N	Hilarious, picaresque, bawdy tale	This true American masterpiece is written like a 17th century literary novel. The style could well be Fielding, except that Barth is even more hilarious.At a time when minimalist novelists seem to be in vogue, I  revelled in the intelligent richness of the elaborate quixotic tale woven  by Barth. When a novelist can write as well as peers like Saul Bellow or  V.S. Naipaul, then a maximalist style like Barth's is to be savoured. Poor  chaste poet laureate, Ebenezer Cooke, encounters harsh reality at every  turn, including capture by pirates and Indians. His dreams drive him to  ridiculous ends where his ambitions are constantly confounded by greater  existential powers. &quot;The road to Heaven's beset with thistles, and  methinks there's many a cowpat on't.&quot; The dialogue is delicious and  well-constructed with an authenticity and wit and bawdy truth. You have to  marvel at the construction of such credible characters as Joan Toast,  Bertrand, Boabdil, Andrew, Pocahontas and the pirate captain. Barth's  dialogue on various letters of the alphabet, the trading of ancient insults  and the scene where Ebenezer fears drowning in Chesapeake Bay were  uproariously funny. Barth obviously knows the Eastern Shore near the  Choptank River intimately: it's a lovely setting for his novel. For any  true lover of great American literary novels, The Sotweed Factor should be  on your must-read list.	2000-01-10
US	51726843	RT0NJRCTJG7CL	0375406530	663303744	Waiting	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Original, enlightening look at life in Communist China	This book offers a fresh, rare look at life deep inside Communist China. There are no formulas for the plot: it's original and the self-effacing perspective of the narrator intrigued me. Waiting is a book without ego. At  first the narrative style seemed to read like a translation. But I realized  that the author's technique was really an extension of the cultural  distinctions about which he described in the novel. He made the culture of  Mao inside China come alive for me. The characters were roundly drawn and  credible, and the story line, while quite simple, offers  an exquisite  beauty in the irony of its denouement. Jin impressed me with his sincerity,  honesty, vivid portrait work and originality. We are fortunate to have such  a well-drawn look at such an inaccessible society by someone who  understands it so well. His accomplishment in crafting such moving  literature in his second language speaks volumes for his intelligence and  creative sensibility. I eagerly await his next novel.	2000-01-03
US	51726843	R3GRNC5NKA67J2	0140062866	220749293	Finnegans Wake: Centennial Edition	Books	5	9	15	N	N	Life on the Liffey Is Iffy at Best	...the story, of recourso, is a lovely ellipse, Vico. Great rivers inspire great minds. For the life of Joyce that river was the Liffey. Anna Livia. Finn, again. Up the wall. Falling down dead. Thud! I am, I do, and I  suffer. I yam as I yam. A touch of Irish whisky to wake him. Eggburst,  eggblend, eggburial and hatch-as-hatch-can. Mounds of fun in the wordplay.  Obscure as Kells. Shocking as the lightningmotifs. Thunderation! Characters  drawn like Remembrandt. Good ole Shem the Pen Man. A brilliant work of  heart to a degree excelsius. Life, he himself once said, kills himself very  soon, is a wake. Tip! But what I love most is...	1999-12-30
US	51726843	R2USIK54J78LTX	0446670111	573126810	Einstein's Dreams	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A relatively good little book	Mr. Lightman enlightens us with new perspective about the nature of time. He proposes various worlds in which time assumes uncoventional properties and then he hypothesizes about the shape of such universes. I was genuinely  intrigued by his innovative presentation on a subject which affects us all.  How we see time's passage is relative and even subjective. And yet we tend  to see it as a linear progression structured by clockworks. The human  portrait of Einstein's life in Berne as a patent clerk before he became  famous was quite vivid and a natural backdrop for Lightman's inventive  what-if scenarios on time. You will never see time solely as a mechanical  linear progression again after reading this accessible and easy-to-read  book: I only wished the author had been more generous with a somewhat  longer work. Certainly, the small portion he offers is rich and dense with  meaning on a most timely subject.	1999-12-30
US	51726843	R3SW8I4KBW03Y0	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	22	39	N	N	The century's most triumphant literary masterpiece	James Joyce is the leading literary light of the 20th century. His command of the language is masterful and like the truly great writers, the English language is better for his use of it. His experimentation with stream of  consciousness in the opening of the century profoundly shaped the  literature that followed. Joyce will be remembered as one of the greatest  writers ever to have lived: his writing is true virtuosity in both form and  substance. He ranks with Homer, Chaucer, Shakespeare, Milton and Tolstoy.  It may help to read this work with guidance by a teacher or professor. If  that's not possible, after reading it in college and more recently, I  recommend that you read it chapter for chapter with Homer's Odyssey or with  a guidebook like Stuart Gilbert's James Joyce's Ulysses: otherwise, the  intricate structure of the work may be lost. Bloom is 20th century man: to  understand him is to peer into the inner depths of one's own being. Ulysses  is magnificent. I stand in awe of this work. I am humbled by it. A more  gifted literary genius may never have walked the planet and may never  inhabit it, again.	1999-12-14
US	51726843	RF0AU50SUTER9	0670887315	929204920	Disgrace	Books	2	20	28	N	N	Rich in craftsmanship, absent in heart	It's evident that the author is a master craftsman. The use of simple language reminded me of the writing style of Michael Cunningham's The Hours in its pure virtuosity and power. The story is engaging and evokes its fair  share of emotional responses, which is a mark of good story telling. The  protagonist, David Lurie, and his daughter were roundly drawn and credible  to a great degree but are also certainly pathetic and foolish beyond all  reason. I empathized with them all in their many incredible misfortunes and  with those poor dogs. But underneath a great story there is usually some  moment when the soul is lifted and we become wiser or stronger or nobler  for having read the work. Disgrace held no such moment for me. And I so  hoped for some shred of redemption among these poor lost souls.  Indeed,  the publisher would have done well to package a cyanide caplet neatly  within the hardbound edition to put us out of our misery from such a  wretching, heartless and utterly hopeless tale. I can't remember a story  line quite so absent of heart. The pity is that such an absence masks as  realism, which in this case doesn't begin to compensate for the despair  that the author heaps so relentlessly upon his readers.  Life certainly  has more than its fair share of ugliness, if you care to focus upon it,  especially to such an extreme. We all know this. However, great writers  uncover the mystery, the heart and soul of humans tormented by adversity or  treachery or their own folly. Hummingbird House by Patricia Henley is a  better example of a person under duress who rises above extremes of social  and political injustice. The author gets high marks for craftsmanship.  Aren't we weary yet of great technicians who have no great stories to tell?  Let's hope that in his next book the author manifests some semblance of  heart. Isn't that the point, after all?	1999-12-03
US	51726843	R2J6SCSZ79D9JD	1878448870	701219721	Hummingbird House	Books	4	21	21	N	Y	A substantive and vivid first novel	What's not to love about Kate Banner?  She is noble, altruistic, intelligent, desirable and driven by service to mankind. She is willing to risk her own safety to help innocent people caught in the cross-fire of  revolutions in  Guatemala and Nicaragua. She offers medical comfort and  guidance and shelter to those who would perish without it. She is the voice  of reason and conscience in a part of the world where both appear in short  supply. I applaud  Patricia Henley for the time she spent in Central  America researching this book -- she seems to understand from experience  the essence of the cultures there. And it shows in the characters and story  line and in the dialogue, which is especially vivid and real. Henley  conveys a grasp of her setting amid its turmoil without overtly espousing  political positions. I learned nothing much new about Nicaragua, which I  have also visited: Henley didn't penetrate deeply into the substance of the  conflict between the Contras and Sandinistas or the glorious landscape or  the human paradox of Managua, which somewhat disappointed me. But she was  able to shed significant new light on the Guatemala situation for me.  Despite the intrusive, overwhelming absurdity of man and nature that Kate  encounters in Central America, she remains resolute in her service to  mankind, which often seems unworthy of such devotion. I deeply respect such  noble optimism and integrity. Henley's portrayal of Father Dixie Ryan was  excellent: what a wonderful character and so roundly drawn! I was pleased  to learn of Henley's inclusion on the short lists for the National Book  Award and the New Yorker's Top Book of the Year. The publisher took a  well-calculated risk on this work, which is far removed from formulaic New  York publishing fare. I look forward to more of such substantive fiction  over the most promising literary career of Patricia Henley. Hummingbird  House is milagro, a miracle.	1999-12-03
US	51726843	R2UZ1WVLYHKEJ8	0140189440	199278992	Humboldt's Gift (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	54	68	N	N	A masterpiece from one of America's greatest living writers	Transcendental. Profound. Scholarly. Challenging. Invigorating. Agile. A literary treasure. Citrine lives and breathes with the perspective of a real writer surging against great existential issues like Walt Whitman's  ultimate question. Humboldt is brilliant, pitiful, hilarious and,  ultimately, victorious from the grave. The gangster, Cantabile, is  Citrine's cosmic foil: the Dionysius of Nietzsche to Citrine's Apollo. This  is potentially a life-altering work: it can change your outlook on life and  death. Bellow redeems late 20th century American literature with writing so  rich it has bestowed upon him a mantle of immortality. He will be long  remembered as one of America's most brilliant 20th century writers. This  novel confirms Bellow's consistent gift for writing as evidenced by his  prolific virtuosity in Herzog, The Adventures of Augie March and Henderson  the Rain King. What a masterful literary legacy Bellow has left us! Bag the  NY Times Best Seller List and Oprah's mind numbing, witless wonders and  read Bellow. Hardly anything this substantive is likely to be created  hereafter.	1999-09-22
US	51726843	R1H5VNDB0AZ23A	0140189432	303427184	Herzog (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	America's Greatest Living Writer	I read Herzog after The Adventures of Augie March and am now reading Henderson the Rain King. I'll probably follow it with Humboldt's Gift, which awaits on my night table. In my humble opinion America currently  simply doesn't possess a more gifted living writer than Saul Bellow.  Herzog's letters to both the living and dead are brilliant epiphanies that  showcase the depth of his genius. His writing style is simple,  straightforward and captivating for a sensitive reader,who seeks a true  literary experience. Bellow draws full,round portraits of characters and  they come alive. Moses Herzog is a misfit, an intellectual whose  preoccupation with his aesoteric life produces maddening, comic and  sometimes tragic conflicts with the realities of everyday existence. I wish  America read less Stephen King and John Grisham, and more Saul Bellow: long  after American best-sellers are dead,buried and forgotten, Bellow's legacy  to American literature will be remembered and treasured.	1999-08-11
US	51726843	R305IE6FYRC17Q	0374172897	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Well written and edited	The opening of this book is one of stunning and vivid artistry -- it's a most visually arresting first chapter. Like Moliere, Cunningham has a real talent for choosing the right words. Each word was carefully selected for  its contribution to the work.The author obviously labored at this short  novel.  Cunningham properly gives credit to Jonathan Galassi as a  &quot;secular saint&quot; who scores another popular, literary victory  after &quot;Charming Billy.&quot; But we almost expect work of this  literary quality from Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux and Roger Straus, who in  Vanity Fair of May was critical of publishers who &quot;add nothing to  literature.&quot; Clearly, this work is a literary gem. The close of the  book also held a rich surprise, which showed the strength of Cunningham's  (Woolf's) technique as a storyteller. The multiple layers and flowing  connections of events and symbolism among the lives of the three women  proved subtly meaningful and unobtrusive. Of the three characters, Mrs.  Woolf was the most intriguing to me -- but she was the muse, after all.  Some players outside the leads were not as sharply drawn and were in some  cases so pretentious and shallow that we may not have had much empathy for  them.  It seems to me that not only has Cunningham written a wonderful  novel but also he brings a great many readers back to Virginia Woolf, which  in itself, is a great service to those who respect his writing.	1999-05-20
US	51726843	R27TZBVJMX2E2F	0060973277	598714605	The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Original, honest, passionate	Oscar Hijuelos is a truly gifted writer who makes a uniquely American experience and era of music come alive with a passionate honesty for which he is worthy of great credit. One deeply feels the alienation of the  brothers in New York where they search for their Cuban heritage and can  never get beyond their longing for their lost country. There is an  emptiness, a painful longing that can never be filled except by alcohol,  music and love. They are trapped within the machismo prevalent in their  heyday and seem to find a hollow solace there -- never quite connecting  with a fulfilling or enduring love. The many relationships are exciting but  temporary and those that are deep do not last. Yet in them the elder  Castillo finds that life is lived intensely, even if the intensity is  fleeting. His descriptions of his love for his mother are moving and his  sacrifices to learn and pursue his art command respect.They are sacrifices  that every devoted artist recognizes. Hijuelos definitely understands the  music crafted, like much great art, out of agony of the spirit. The reader  is transported to another era with a realism that rings true. Their  suffering is the origin of their consciousness and the essence of their  best music.The music is omniscient from the clanking on the pipes in claves  to the boleros that define their experience. The encounters with Desi Arnaz  were a nice creative touch, a rounding out of their experience, and a foil  for their own poverty amid the American Dream. Hijuelos seems to have  brought some of his own cultural experience in New York into play with  great conviction and depth. The writing style is truly innovative and the  honesty in the writing is genuinely compelling.	1999-05-19
US	51726843	R3H7JLH8SZ31IG	0140281606	956359818	The Adventures of Augie March (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	92	109	N	Y	A literary masterpiece	This novel is unquestionably one of the great masterpieces of our time.<br /><br />Saul Bellow paints portraits of characters like Rembrandt. He has a brilliant technique for divulging not only the physical nuances of his  characters but also gets deep into the essence of their souls.<br /><br />He has an  astute grasp of motivation and spins a complex tale with an ease that  astounds. Even the most unusual twists of fate seem natural and  authentic.<br /><br />Augie is a man \\"in search of a worthwhile fate.\\"  After struggling at the bottom of Maslow's hierarchy of needs as a  penniless youth in Chicago, he ultimately discovers that alignment with the  \\"axial lines\\" of his existence is the secret to human  fulfillment.<br /><br />While his brother is engrossed in chasing after financial  enrichment and social esteem, Augie learns through his own striving that  such pursuit is \\"merely clownery hiding tragedy.\\"<br /><br />Augie is a  man dogged in his pursuit of the American dream who has an epiphany that  the riches that life has to offer lie in the secrets at the heart's core.  If, as Sartre says, life is the search for meaning, then Augie is the  inspired champion of this great human quest.<br /><br />The true test of a great  book is that you wish it would never end. Fortunately, Saul Bellow is as  prolific as he is brilliant and there is much more to explore.<br /><br />Bellow is  worthy of the characterization of one of America's best living novelists:  he is a treasure. His wisdom staggers the imagination.<br /><br />Don't let this  novel pass you by!	1999-05-15
US	51726843	R2B6UOEWLXN58E	0375501347	314955975	Amy and Isabelle	Books	3	2	5	N	Y	A promising first novel.	In her first outing, Elizabeth Strout shows great promise as a novelist. Clearly, she has not caught full-stride as a writer in this probably largely autobiographical first work. Her lean, almost minimalist, writing  style is deceptive in its depth, at first. The women are all round, full  and deep in their portrayal. But the men are all flat, one-dimensional,  cardboard fiends. She seemed to be stretching to create a gritty realism in the  dialogue, which simply came across in many places as contrived. Both Amy and Isabelle were utterly bewildered by virtually every man whom  they met. Yet by the end of the novel, I really liked the women and felt I  knew them as friends. Ultimately, Strout creatively built a small, milltown community in Shirley Falls, Maine, much as Faulkner did in Mississippi. The  production quality of the book itself by the publisher was masterful. Women will probably strongly gravitate en masse toward this novel, which men may be less likely to embrace. With creative seasoning, Strout's next novel will build upon the promise she has definitely demonstrated in this early work.	1999-04-24
