US	51734240	R2SFGF74MG7GQX	0312283121	333487848	The Lost King of France: A True Story of Revolution, Revenge, and DNA	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Harrowing	I'm a history buff and I love reading about the French Revolution, so this book was a must. Besides, I had already read about the DNA investigation that finally solved the mystery of Louis XVII's fate, but I didn't know the details, or the full story of his captivity after being separated from his family.<br /><br />The DNA part is very interesting, but what I found really harrowing was the description of the shameful treatment meted out to this little boy whose only fault was to be the son of the despised king and queen (who, by the way, displayed a lot more dignity in their final hours than those who sent them to the scaffold). I agree wholeheartedly with the words of the bishop who, in a small ceremony, blessed the heart on which the DNA tests were conducted. He said that the heart of the small victim was a symbol of all those children who have suffered through the ages - and continue to suffer - because of wars, revolutions, and the cruelty of adults. This kid, seven years old when his father was executed, was locked up in a filthy cell away from his family and friends, regularly abused morally and physically, and referred to in contemporary documents as \\"the wolf cub\\" or \\"the ape's son\\" (the wolf being Louis XVI and the ape Marie Antoinette, or maybe it was the other way round).<br /><br />I found myself seriously hating people such as Hebert, the despicable pamphleteer who through his libellous paper contributed enormously to the royal family's unpopularity and the little boy's ordeal, or the shoemaker Simon, who brutalized the helpless child entrusted to his \\"care\\".<br /><br />However great and good the motives and ideals behind the Revolution - which no one intends to deny -, it led to acts of unspeakable brutality against innocent, defenseless people. How fitting that many of those who committed or instigated them ended their days with the same violence they so easily used against others. And how fitting, also, that this little hapless victim of cruelty and hatred should finally have found, in the true telling of his story, the vindication that his senseless suffering deserved.ave found, in the true telling of his story, the vindication that his senseless suffering deserved.	2005-08-04
US	51734240	R1KGUUBZIIDERR	0060934239	293053913	Daughters of Britannia: The Lives and Times of Diplomatic Wives	Books	1	2	13	N	Y	Inaccurate (and offensive) information	I live in Uruguay, so the part of the book that deals with the wife of a diplomat living in Uruguay (and the inaccuracies concerning that country) naturally caught my attention.  <br /> <br />While one can sympathize with Mrs Jackson's troubles during her husband's kidnapping, this reader felt offended by the way in which Ms Hickman treats the Tupamaros, whom she (besides misspelling the name of their movement) defines as \\"terrorists\\" who were \\"dedicated to the overthrow of the current order of society\\". The current order of society was an increasingly dictatorial and authoritarian government, which in fact handed over the reins of the country to a military dictatorship two years after Mrs Jackson's ordeals, in 1973. That dictatorship, which was as bloody and savage as all US - sponsored dictatorships in South America, lasted for 12 years, ending in 1985.  <br /> <br />While one cannot justify the kidnapping of any person, whatever its motives, it is strange that Ms Hickman completely fails to mention that (unlike the Tupamaros captured by the military dictatorship) Evelyn Jackson's husband was released unharmed and was never hurt, starved or otherwise tortured during the time he was held prisoner.  <br /> <br />It is also hard to sympathize with either Mrs Jackson or the author when the latter approvingly quotes the former as saying (presumably of diplomats living in Third World countries) that \\"we're always in the middle of a revolution. They just wait for us to arrive, and then they get cracking\\". What a racist, patronizing, thoroughly unpleasant comment to make (and to quote). <br /> <br />This is not meant to be a review of the whole of the book, since I have not read it all. But finding such inaccuracies (and contempt) with regard to the country I find myself living in, I wonder whether there might not be others concerning countries that I don't know about. It should be taken into account that diplomats live in a sort of bubble, rarely getting to know the reality of the countries they are sent to - after all, day-to-day life is seldom a succession of cocktails and parties, especially in poor countries like the ones most of these diplomatic wives ended up in. While I respect personal suffering and tragedy such as the one this particular woman endured, I do not like to see a country pictured as a terrorists' haven when it is nothing of the sort and never was. <br />	2005-04-01
US	51734240	R39SIO4XKIY3XW	0786710373	868128423	Hell Hath No Fury: Women's Letters from the End of the Affair	Books	3	16	18	N	Y	Uneven	Being, like the reviewer called Kim, interested in the epistolary genre, I eagerly purchased \\"Hell Hath No Fury\\". Like her, I found it extremely rewarding in some aspects, disappointing in others. The editor is an amateur (she admits that she knew nothing about the history of women's letters before undertaking this project), which may account for some of the flaws in this otherwise engaging book. Some of the letters could certainly have been dispensed with. Tanya's letter, with its tiresome stream of abuse (come on! do we really need to read about her boyfriend performing oral sex on her right after she had finished having sex with another man?) was gratuitous obscenity, but Leigh L.'s was something even worse, revealing racism and a nastiness which I personally found disgusting (\\"I guess that's what comes with being a good Jewish girl in bed with a Mexican\\", \\"thanks for letting me take your Panamanian virginity away\\" - you get the style; however, for a \\"good girl\\", she does seem to have been sleeping around a bit, and anyway, what exactly is a \\"Panamanian virginity\\" like?).<br /><br />If you can overlook this sort of trash, and those letters that simply are not interesting enough, you may find some worthwhile - and occasionally moving - pieces. I deeply identified with Kate Christensen's frustration at her relationship with John, having felt exactly the same impotence and wretchedness when faced with my then-boyfriend's utter lack of understanding or respect for my beliefs and feelings. I also enjoyed the 63-year-old woman's letter to the man she had met on the internet - although I'm much younger, I could identify with what she felt. And the historical as well as some of the literary letters are a delight.<br /><br />Another drawback that I found was the unusual, extremely high number of typographical errors, which made me wonder if I might not have been reading an uncorrected copy. But the good quality of the paper and altogether nice edition sort of made up for that :)<br /><br />All in all, it's an enjoyable book (even if it's so uneven as to make you wonder why some of the letters are featured at all) and I read it through in only a few days because of its historical and emotional interest. I suggest you get a used copy - even though it'll probably make a fun read, I don't think it's worth buying new.n all, it's an enjoyable book (even if it's so uneven as to make you wonder why some of the letters are featured at all) and I read it through in only a few days because of its historical and emotional interest. I suggest you get a used copy - even though it'll probably make a fun read, I don't think it's worth buying new.	2005-03-07
US	51734240	R12R0M204HOLDY	0786705604	608881239	The Essence of the Thing	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	It does hurt that way	I agree with a previous reviewer that this novel relies heavily on dialogue, but, contrary to what that reviewer thought, I didn't feel that this detracted from it in any way. I also thought that it relied pretty heavily on emotions, and some of them are depicted so well it's scary. I know the feeling - the sheer horror - of trying to imagine life, a long life full of long days, without the person you love. Nicola's utter despair was completely recognizable for me - she is a character I could empathise with. Granted, it may not be a very deep-probing novel, the characters may not be drawn in too much detail, but it is a novel that manages to convey certain awful feelings, and portray some dreary situations, in a compassionate and realistic way. And that is no minor achievement.	2005-03-07
US	51734240	R1LEBB76Y4SIA9	0385722206	749687762	Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress: A Novel	Books	1	17	33	N	N	Utterly overpraised	I'm sorry to disagree with the majority of the reviewers, but the truth is that I don't think this book merits any of the praise and publicity it has received. I found the narrative style precarious, to say the least, and the underlying story is, in my opinion, poor and hardly engaging or believable. The purported simplicity that conveys such great truths in this so-called \\"little fable\\" seems to me to be nothing more than lack of elaboration, both in terms of plot and literary craft. There is no fable at all, just an overpraised book that seems to have been marketed to the skies.	2004-09-14
US	51734240	R3JSDSC7PMBCBK	0375725539	538383465	Samuel Pepys: The Unequalled Self	Books	5	7	8	N	N	As good as they come	Even for those of us who have read other work by Ms Tomalin, such as her great biography of Jane Austen, the quality of this book is astounding. Pepys couldn't have asked for a better biographer. Against the magnificent backdrop of Commonwealth and Restoration England, she paints a convincing and believable portrait of her subject, warts and all. He was tremendously ambitious and not above betraying his friends and benefactors. He systematically neglected and cheated on his wife, and sexually harassed his female servants and other women not in a position to resist his advances. He was mean and unkind to his sister. And yet he was an intelligent, hardworking and capable man, and one of the first to embody the concept of meritocracy, as opposed to making a career out of one's birth and fortune. Part of the author's merit lies in showing that the fascinating world in which her man lived has more similarities to ours than we might at first imagine. Tomalin's biography, covering not only the diary years but also Pepys' subsequent career, is an absolute must for all interested in the seventeenth century and this charming, flawed diarist.	2004-09-13
US	51734240	RI7DCY9T2M21L	0839731566	770843105	Hand in Hand	Books	2	0	1	N	Y	Underestimates the reader	The Publishers' Weekly review calls Thor and Anni, the books' main (and almost only) characters, a &quot;beautiful couple&quot;. I have to say I disagree. For me, they were a bourgeois pair living their selfish little self-centered lives without any interest in anything or anyone apart from themselves and their little clean bourgeois apartment. It's hard to empathize with such people. Besides, the writing style is so childish as to make one wonder if it is a book for adults at all! A story line with no character development whatsoever, so full of cliches as to make you feel completely underestimated as a reader. Can't think how this book received so much praise.	2004-05-21
US	51734240	R2L3LTV5GZIPKI	037541181X	864241397	A Venetian Affair	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	Inexpressibly sad	I wholeheartedly agree with all the readers who have praised Andrea di Robilant's elegant and stylish writing (since he is Italian, and thus English is not his first language, his merit is double). I also wish to praise his genuine involvement with his subjects, Andrea and Giustiniana, the warmth and respect with which he treats them, and the way he honours the love his late father felt for them.<br />Enough has been said about the book's gripping development and the way in which it brings to life the colourful and (alas) terribly gossipy and poisoned Venetian society of the time. I will add that, in spite of its liveliness, I found the book tremendously sad and moving. You can actually feel the two lovers drifting apart, separated first by their different social circumstances, then by geographical distance. You suffer at the way they try to keep their relationship alive under a different form (as friends and &quot;brothers&quot;) while silently mourning the imposed loss of their love. You wonder at the way in which they describe their other love affairs to each other, trying perhaps to make their unnatural estrangement (and subsequent need to go on with their lives) seem normal. And you marvel at the irony of a world which would not allow them to be together while both were single, but which would permit their being lovers while Giustiniana was married, or after she had been widowed.<br />Of course, many questions arise. One such, that kept surfacing in my mind, was whether they did strive hard enough. It was surprising to me that the alternative of elopement, or of getting married in spite of the consequences, was never seriously considered. If my assumptions are right, it would perhaps add another issue to this touching story of human feelings: whether their love was really that deep, or there was an element of obsession, and perhaps social defiance, that did not want to go that far.<br />In any case, the story is wonderful and lends itself to varied readings, which Mr. di Robilant never imposes on the reader, presenting the naked facts (as far as they can be reconstructed) for each of us to make his or her very personal interpretation.	2004-05-04
US	51734240	R15YLXO4YIMVNL	0743242599	797612776	Tea and Green Ribbons: Evelyn's Story	Books	2	5	12	N	Y	Poorly written	While the story that gave rise to this book is undoubtedly moving and probably gripping, &quot;Tea and green ribbons&quot; is so poorly written as to have no literary merit at all. A memoir, besides telling an interesting tale, has to be well-written - otherwise, an interview in a magazine will do for me, thanks. The whole book reads like this: &quot;Daddy said hello. I felt so happy. Daddy picked me up in his arms. I laughed. Then Daddy said he had to go. I cried&quot;. <br />I was also disappointed that Ms. Doyle tells us virtually nothing about the lives of her brothers during her convent years. She tells a lot about her father, but her brothers, their feelings and ordeals, are almost completely passed over, and even after the end of the judicial proceedings (and the book) they are barely mentioned. The father's struggle seems much more concerned with Evelyn than with her remaining five siblings, and we wonder if it really happened that way.<br />Being a lawyer, I was particularly interested in the judicial aspect of the story. Even though Ms. Doyle devotes many pages to it, I thought the whole issue could have been told in more detail and with a greater juridical accuracy - after all, as she says, hers became a leading case, so I should think it deserves a deeper analysis. Some readers might say that this is not the purpose of a memoir (which should be only concerned with what its author lived through and felt), to which I answer that, since Ms. Doyle chose to deal with the case in some detail, she ought to have engaged in a really serious analysis.<br />All in all, a disappointing book, though it might do for light holiday reading.	2004-02-10
US	51734240	R2VOEVAFVGYANS	0750919027	329954803	The Private Passions of Bonnie Prince Charlie	Books	1	3	3	N	Y	Appalling	I only finished this book through my own interest in its subject. Its appalling writing - which could have come right out of a school essay by a not particularly good student - should be enough to discourage any reader, but to that there must be added a serious lack of real scholarship, and a complete carelessness and naiveté in jumping to conclusions (whether these be about factual, psychological or historical issues), which became more and more vexing as I plodded through the book. <br />As if this weren't enough, there are contradictions galore, even in regard to the author's own opinions. For example, Mr. Douglas asserts, on page 170, that &quot;Charles Stuart in love might consider himself a prince, but he certainly was no gentleman&quot;. An unremarkable comment in itself, if it weren't for the fact that later on, on page 285, the author tells us that &quot;as a lover, Prince Charlie could be a gentleman, but a gentleman with a sinister, dark side&quot; (???). <br />There is at least one blatant error of grammatical interpretation, as when, on the first line of page 263, Mr. Douglas explains the word &quot;anyways&quot; as meaning &quot;anyone's&quot;, which certainly cannot be the word's meaning on line 7 of the same page. My opinion is that the word means simply &quot;in any way&quot;, but that's not the explanation given in the book (wouldn't it have been easier to leave it unexplained, rather than adding that embarrassing little clarification in brackets?).<br />All in all, a disappointment, and a complete waste of money. I only hope there are better books on Prince Charlie around!!!	2003-09-26
US	51734240	R12DM9JAY8P42J	0208023631	750304619	Shelley's First Love/the Love Story of Percy Bysshe Shelley and Harriet Grove	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Reads like a novel	For anyone interested in Shelley's life, this very good book provides an engaging account of what was his first known love affair - events that took place during his often-neglected early teens. The book is short and reads like a novel, making abundant use of Harriet Grove's diaries, which (alas) were heavily deleted by an anonymous hand wishing to eradicate all references to Shelley, but still yield a lot of interesting information. Unfortunately, the letters exchanged between the teenage cousins are not extant, and all we have are Harriet's references to the epistles she received and sent. Desmond Hawkins does a good job of depicting an attachment that flourished with surprisingly little contact (the two cousins actually seem to have spent very little time together - but maybe in Regency times that fact didn't hinder a romance the way it would in modern times) and eventually withered, maybe because of Harriet's bewilderment at Shelley's radical views and increasingly unconventional behaviour. The reader is left to wonder what might have happened if Shelley had married his amiable and well-bred cousin instead of the ill-fated Harriet Westbrook and, subsequently, the dauntless, talented Mary Godwin. The history of English Romantic poetry might have been very different as a consequence.	2003-06-11
US	51734240	R3BSXIP2W2ZBM6	0385473826	788272201	Beirut Blues	Books	2	3	5	N	Y	Praised far beyond its worth	I agree with another reviewer who called this book &quot;long, confusing and boring&quot;. Not only did I not relate or empathise with the main character, Asmahan (an upper-class woman purposelessly travelling back and forth between Beirut and her family's country village), but I also found the description of her relationships to others (friends, lovers, family members, etc.) to be vague and insufficient. You never get to fully understand her actions and motives, much less her feelings. The book, which consists of letters written by Asmahan to such an unlikely cast of recipients as her friend Hayat, the war, Beirut and Billie Holiday (?), among others, drags on forever, without adding to your knowledge of either the characters or the political context. I finished it out of sheer stubbornness, and regret not having paid enough attention to previous reviewers. <br />A further comment (though in all fairness not concerning the book's quality) should be made in relation to the preposterous comment on the book's front flap, which says: &quot;With the critical and commercial success in the U.S. of her two earlier books ... Hanan al-Shaykh's standing as the Arab world's foremost woman writer has been confirmed&quot;. Are we supposed to take this seriously? I should believe that Ms. al-Shaykh's standing as an Arab female writer ought to relate to the quality of her writing first of all, and - if any commercial element must be introduced at all - then to the sales of her books in that very Arab world whose foremost novelist she is supposed to be (an assertion which this book should call into question, by the way). American arrogance has been at work here. Would great sales in Arab countries make an American writer &quot;the U.S.'s foremost&quot;?	2003-01-26
US	51734240	R2BCH80J0UE4DL	1571310231	391371061	The Tree of Red Stars	Books	2	16	20	N	Y	Good subject, flawed writing	As a Uruguayan citizen, I am happy that someone from my country has attempted to write a novel apparently destined for the American public (it seems to have been originally written in English) concerning the bloody, U.S.-financed and -sponsored military dictatorship that scourged Uruguay from 1973 to 1985. Most of my American friends didn't know, or didn't believe, that the U.S. actively supported antidemocratic and murderous regimes in South America and elsewhere, sending CIA-trained \\"torture specialists\\" such as Dan Mitrione to teach their skills to the local military - and it is my belief that people should be made aware of tragedies such as the one Uruguay lived through. For this, I give one star to Tessa Bridal's book.<br /><br />However, much as I would have liked to, I cannot commend (or recommend) this book, which I find seriously flawed. From the beginning, I found characters to be one-dimensional and hard to relate to - and that includes the main character, Magdalena. No hints are given as to why the scion of a well-to-do, conservative family should join a group of left-wing activists such as the Tupamaros (even though this is a fairly common phenomenon, I think it should have merited at least some attempt at explanation, especially since Magdalena seems to enjoy all the privileges afforded by her class without any qualms). Magdalena's love affair with the improbably-named Marco Aurelio Pereira is similarly stilted and unbelievable, as is the one with the sullen, ill-fated and rapidly forgotten Jaime.<br /><br />Similarly inverosimile and unlikely is Magdalena's relationship with the beggar Gabriela, whom she befriends. The author somehow manages to depict wealthy Magdalena's idyllic friendship with an indigent woman without questioning the social differences between the two, which is maybe a consequence of the pastoral innocence in which the beautiful and intelligent beggar lives - dire poverty, it seems, but without any of its grimmest accompaniments - Gabriela's sweet, tidy little shack resembles the merry shepherds' dwellings in an Arcadian romance.<br /><br />There seems to be no purpose in Gabriela's romanticized existence in the novel at all, except as a convenient human face for Dan Mitrione's bloody practices.<br /><br />Along the way, Bridal manages to accomodate a few mistakes no Uruguayan should make, such as calling the Cerro, a promontory looming across the Bay of Montevideo, \\"Uruguay's tallest hill\\" (page 14). Uruguayan land is a softly undulating one, without any mountains, but it has some hilly places, and the highest of these, the Cerro de las Animas, is considerably taller than the Cerro de Montevideo.<br /><br />Two pages later, Bridal says that the Cerro \\"was where Montevideo's bichicomes lived\\". Wrong again. \\"Bichicome\\", a word derived from the English \\"beachcomber\\", applies to homeless people (usually old and male) who sleep on the streets, not to slum dwellers.<br /><br />These may seem like minor flaws, but when added to dreamy, artificial writing, and a dreamy, artificial depiction of upper-class living, which seems irredeemably \\"written from the outside\\" (i.e., how Bridal thinks upper-class Uruguayans live), the effect can be annoying. It certainly lacks the ring of truth.<br /><br />I really think Bridal has made an honest effort at depicting these times of repression and horror, but the novel just doesn't come off as convincing or believable. I gave it another star for a certain evocative quality which I liked. And the edition is lovely. But that's about all there is to it.<br /><br />For good books about life under the Uruguayan dictatorship (and other subjects), try Mauricio Rosencof's \\"Las cartas que no llegaron\\" (\\"The letters that never arrived\\"), a moving book about a family of Jewish immigrants in Uruguay and their Tupamaro son, and Eduardo Galeano's \\"El libro de los abrazos\\" (\\"The book of embraces\\"), an original and important book which can be found online in English translation.	2002-12-26
US	51734240	RZKE3I3PKICBF	0044409184	592024432	Blood Sisters: The French Revolution in Women's Memory	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	Deeply satisfying	I had never read any book by Marilyn Yalom before, but after finishing \\"Blood Sisters\\" I'm eager to do so! For anyone interested in the French Revolution and what I call \\"personal history\\" - the history of individuals, as opposed to that of economic or political processes - this book will be a gem. Frenchwomen from all walks of life come alive through their memoirs and recollections of a chaotic, painful time, and, under Yalom's intelligent guidance, paint for us a picture of individual lives shattered by the upheavals of radical change.<br />The one thing which dissatisfied and somewhat irritated me was Yalom's insistence in drawing parallels between the violence and massacres aroused by the Revolution, and the Jewish Holocaust. I really don't see how this was necessary for the understanding and appreciating of the book and its message. I do not wish to call into question the horrors of the Holocaust, which is one of the great tragedies of our times, and undoubtedly one of the worst examples of what man is capable of - but there have been many other instances of barbarity and cruelty, notably in the context of other Revolutions before and since that of France, which would make better parallels. I cannot help but thinking (and I'm not saying this disrespectfully) that in this particular aspect Yalom's Jewishness has gotten the better of her discernment as a scholar. A minor bother in an otherwise rich and engaging book.	2002-12-15
US	51734240	R2JSM24WIWYMSV	1852421967	98390599	Let the Wind Speak (Extraordinary Classics)	Books	5	24	30	N	N	Not a review - I'm correcting a mistake	As a Uruguayan reader and book-lover, I take offense at an editorial review by the Library Journal which, in spite of its literary name, doesn't seem to have bothered to check the accuracy of the information it gives about books' authors. F.Y.I., Juan Carlos Onetti was not Argentinian. He was Uruguayan, and ranks with his countrymen, the literary geniuses Horacio Quiroga, Eduardo Galeano and Felisberto Hernndez, in originality and quality of craftmanship. I can only say how sorry I am to see erroneous information happily published online, to the confusion and misguiding of readers.	2002-11-06
US	51734240	RNJ0Y3OQV1E2Q	0679738878	389855360	Body Snatcher	Books	5	4	11	N	N	A comment on the translation - not exactly a review	Let me issue a caveat on the translation of my countryman Onetti's finest book, which I originally read in Spanish. Rendering the invented word &quot;Juntacadáveres&quot; as &quot;Body Snatcher&quot; doesn't really make sense, since it seems to hint at a grave robber or something like that. &quot;Corpse collector&quot; would be a much better translation, the nickname referring to a man who runs a brothel full of old, ugly, depressing prostitutes. I cannot comment on the rest of the translator's work, since I haven't read it, but if the very title is badly translated, how good can the book itself be?<br />This said, I highly recommend this book, whose grim, surreal atmosphere will appeal to readers in search of unconventional, well-crafted writing.	2002-11-06
US	51734240	R2X6UTX79OF7WA	0226580245	695590571	The Reckoning: The Murder of Christopher Marlowe	Books	5	36	40	N	Y	Superbly written and entertaining	Contrary to what one reviewer (if we can use that word, since he or she obviously didn't read the book) says, the mystery of Marlowe's death has not ceased to be fascinating. There are several reasons for this, as Nicholl makes abundantly clear: first, the debt owed to any human being whose death has not been clarified; second, the light this murder throws on the workings of the Elizabethan espionage system, and Marlowe's relation to it; third, the fact that he wasn't just anyone - he was a gifted writer, and we all lost something by his dying so young. <br />Nicholl's work leaves nothing to be desired: it is at the same time scholarly and awfully entertaining. The man obviously knows his subject. The Marlowe that emerges is not the brilliant if somewhat rebellious youth that we used to think of, but a less likeable, more unsavoury character. But, as Nicholl says somewhere in the book, can we really burden him with the weight of our own expectations? He was a man of his time, and, although we might regret having to put the spy side by side with the playwright, he may not have seen it that way: it was a question of going or not going hungry. I would say that I altogether prefer the fuller picture, even if it's not the most pleasant one.<br />\\"The Reckoning\\" is abundantly researched and very well written, and is one of the few books I have lately read, which I did not want to finish.	2002-07-23
US	51734240	R2NIIE4EQNNF32	0312282877	221391313	Philip Sidney: A Double Life	Books	3	15	17	N	Y	A so-so rendering of a fascinating life	Alan Stewart's book might not be great (and, indeed, Katherine Duncan-Jones's biography of Sidney is, in my opinion, much more engrossing and insightful), but it is not as hopelessly boring as a previous reviewer would have us think. According to the opinions expressed by that reviewer, it would seem that any life that is not well documented would not be worth writing a biography about. That is obviously not so, since lack of evidence has always added to a subject's historical fascination. This is especially true of everything Elizabethan. I believe that Philip Sidney was indeed an interesting character, not least because of his tolerance and compassion in a world where neither of these virtues was terribly commonplace. I also believe he was a gifted writer. He was also a member of a politically active family in a politically driven, factious age. Any of these elements alone justifies writing a biography about him. So there's no question of a &quot;boring life&quot; here. I think that the problem here is that Stewart gives a lot of facts, but little insight into what Sidney was really like. In regard to aspects of his emotional life, such as his real feelings for Penelope Rich and his wife Frances, this is probably due to lack of evidence. But, in regard to his more-than-documented public life, that can hardly be the case. I would have appreciated more interpretation together with the naked facts. Also, I think that the subject of Sidney as a writer was insufficiently addressed. Katherine Duncan-Jones's biography is much better at both these issues, and it is the book I would recommend to anyone interested in this remarkable man. Let me say, however, that all is not wrong: Stewart's attempt at depicting Elizabethan politics and power struggles is good enough. This is not what I'd call a gripping book, but it's not a bad one either. What is clear, though, is that in no way can any of its flaws be attributed to its subject. Philip Sidney was certainly a fascinating person in a weird, enthralling, fascinating age.rson in a weird, enthralling, fascinating age.	2002-07-22
US	51734240	R1A6B9UZCOQWKS	0801844029	613974981	Amish Roots: A Treasury of History, Wisdom, and Lore (Center Books in Anabaptist Studies)	Books	2	3	8	N	Y	A partial and often boring picture	I bought this book because I was interested in learning about the way in which the Amish have managed to build a society free of the anguish and purposelessness  so usual in ours. Well, this book only partially succeeded in giving me the information I wanted. I would gladly have exchanged uninteresting extracts, such as the homemade remedies and recipes, or the verses written by teenagers in their albums (in much the same way as many non-Amish teenagers I know), for more substantial information. Often, the author awoke my interest in one subject, but then did not provide enough information to satisfy that interest. The &quot;what happened next&quot; is usually lacking. For instance, I would have liked to know more about the Amish reaction to the movie &quot;Witness&quot;, about which only a vague, disjointed letter is offered as a sample. At other times, the stories or extracts seem so irrelevant as to be laughable, as in the story about the man who bought a pair of shoes and left his old ones inside a box in the shop, to play a joke on the salesboy. The choice of illustrations (mostly of decorated front pages of Bibles, or fairly simple and unremarkable drawings)is poor, and could have been better if photographs of Amish people and their farmsteads had been included. Also, the &quot;criticism of the Amish&quot; section seems fairly mild when compared to the sky-high praise lavished on them in other selections. This makes the global picture rather subjective. Criticising their rejection of technology seems pretty lukewarm, when you think of more debatable subjects, such as the role of women in Amish society, or their preventing their children from attaining higher education. My intention here is not to criticize a society I'm only beginning to learn about (and which I find, I must confess, fascinating in its quiet way), but to highlight some aspects of it that are barely dwelt upon in this book, which seems concerned only with showing the Amish in the most favorablelight. Maybe the general dullness and scantness of the material is due to what the author of the book mentions throughout - the reluctance of the Amish to write about themselves. If so, it's a pity, for, in &quot;Amish Roots&quot;, you only get a dull and colorless picture of what is undoubtedly a complex and mistifying way of life.	2002-06-24
US	51734240	RKVFM7UNDPFE7	0140158804	288397045	Shelley: The Pursuit	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Monumental and all-inclusive	How is it possible that the world's largest online bookstore doesn't stock any biography of Shelley? He was, after all, not just a poet, but a fascinating character even without taking his literary accomplishments into account. I found Mr. Holmes's great biography in an Oxford, UK bookstore. And I must say it's amazing. I can't believe it was written by a 28-year-old. The research done here is nothing short of astounding. I must say, however, that the long pages devoted to Shelley's political creed and activities can get a bit wearisome - at least for me, who was more interested in the personal and literary aspects of his life, than in the political ones - but then, I understand that this reflects my personal preferences, and admit it doesn't much deter from the book's qualities. In fact, you could say it makes it more solid and thorough, in including a part of Shelley's life that has been traditionally neglected by his biographers.<br />A nice feature of Mr. Holmes's work is the description of the physical places in Shelley's life - for instance, the house where he was born and the ones which he inhabited during his years in Italy. All of these had some endearing and fascinating trait, from the rolling lawns of Field Place to the sun-soaked terrace of the Casa Magni. I only wish these descriptions had been more in-depth, since it is obvious that Shelley often built strong emotional connections with the places where he lived. I look forward to reading &quot;Footsteps&quot;, which is the account of Holmes's literary travels and research, and which is already awaiting me in my bookshelf!	2002-06-22
US	51734240	R2YTGM9FC5Z3LF	0553212583	363093333	Wuthering Heights (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Magnificent	Charlotte, Emily Brontë's elder sister, wrote that \\"Wuthering Heights was hewn in a wild workshop, with simple tools, out of homely materials\\". This makes sense when we learn that Emily Brontë did not care for social life (perhaps due to her extreme shyness) and seemed to scorn the outer world, living contentedly in the bleak scenario of the Yorkshire moors where her clergyman father's parsonage was located. Thus, it was with these \\"homely materials\\" - the wild Yorkshire landscape and its dour inhabitants - that she fashioned her only novel, which is, however, anything but homely.<br />... The book is at the same time beautifully passionate and completely spare in its imagery and the depiction of its characters. The narrative is multifaceted and skilfully employs the technique of using several narrators: Lockwood, the naive Londoner who rents a Yorkshire farm in his search for picturesque landscapes; the commonplace and down-to-earth witness to the novel's amazing events, Nelly Dean; Isabella, the scorned and unloved wife; and so on. Each of these characters lends his or her particular voice to the story, thus making it a sort of patchwork where there seems to be no \\"official\\" version - but which is at the same time seamlessly cohesive.<br />One reviewer, surprisingly, goes so far as to say that Cathy married Edgar for the money (she belongs to the same social class as he does - it is Heathcliff, the slum waif, who is the outsider) and that Heathcliff takes the kid Hindley and teaches him to hate his father (incidentally, the boy that Heathcliff takes under his \\"care\\" is not Hindley but Hindley's son, Hareton). In order to be qualified for writing a review, readers should make at least a honest effort at reading and understanding the book.<br />I believe that the biggest mistake that readers tend to make on approaching \\"Wuthering Heights\\", a mistake perhaps fueled by Hollywood, is to think of it as a romance or love story - which it only secondarily is. This is, above all, a family saga, spanning some three decades and concerned with one individual's revenge on the families he considers to have wronged him. It is also a portrait of human passions - love, hatred, anguish and grief - in a wild, desolate setting where the forces of nature cannot be kept at bay.<br />All in all, a work of great strength and beauty. It would have done Emily Brontë a lot of good to know that her masterpiece has at last received the recognition it deserves.ve all, a family saga, spanning some three decades and concerned with one individual's revenge on the families he considers to have wronged him. It is also a portrait of human passions - love, hatred, anguish and grief - in a wild, desolate setting where the forces of nature cannot be kept at bay.<br />All in all, a work of great strength and beauty. It would have done Emily Brontë a lot of good to know that her masterpiece has at last received the recognition it deserves.	2002-02-17
US	51734240	R2POPG9JML9LUG	1566563747	450688735	The Poetry of Arab Women: A Contemporary Anthology	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	A long good look into a fascinating world	The editor of this book, Nathalie Handal, deserves commendation for her work. If you hold the common view of Arab women as submissive and repressed beings, this book might be the thing for you. Even though repression and sexual discrimination may be harsher in Arab societies than in our Western world, that seems to be only one side of reality. What this anthology shows us is strong-willed, sensitive and opinionated women, who are also highly skilled in that most demanding of crafts - poetry. Inevitably, some of the poems are better than others. But the first alone justify buying the book, for they are VERY good. The translations are also (as far as one can ascertain through taste and personal intuition) good, with the possible exception of Munia Samara's poems, where the translator several times seems to refer to a city as both \\"it\\" and \\"she\\", occassionally in the same line: \\"It has not surrendered her keys to one prophet\\", \\"it opens its windows / and throws a bone / to the barking Napoleon around her walls\\".<BR>Notwithstanding these minor flaws, the book is enjoyable and worthwhile as a field guide for discovering the fascination of the Arab world and its remarkable women poets.	2002-02-12
US	51734240	R12O2FKEM5Z9AK	1852243880	534564340	Skating on the Sea: Poetry from Finland	Books	2	5	5	N	Y	Surely not a representative sample...	I was in search of a comprehensive anthology of Finnish poetry, and, in that sense, found this book quite disappointing. The youngest anthologized poets, Claes Andersson and Pentti Saarikoski, were born in 1937. In the preface, the editor states that &quot;an anthologist must stop somewhere: I chose to stop at the latest poet to attract wide international attention&quot;. Surely there must be some Finns under 64 years old writing poetry that deserve being anthologized and translated, regardless of fame??? After reading this book, I don't really feel as if I had gained a deeper awareness of Finnish poetical tendencies, or of writers currently active in that country. I believe that some really dismal nineteenth-century pieces, as well as one frankly ugly Futurist poem whose interest can't be other than historical, might have been exchanged by work by younger writers. As it is,there is a gap in the anthology that prevents it from being a sample of Finnish poetry since its beginnings. Also, I would have appreciated more biographical info on the featured poets.<BR>On the purely aesthetical side, bravo to Bloodaxe Books for a nice edition (the painting on the cover is superb). It's a pity that the contents were not as satisfying.	2002-01-06
US	51734240	R3QXWNBMQZZIIC	0385332998	822517996	Total Immersion	Books	5	7	14	N	Y	I'm amazed...	Did she really write these stories at 21? I'm seething with envy. Allegra Goodman is everything the back cover promised - gifted, brilliant, swift to get to the truth of things. She's also full of gentle irony and very, very perceptive. I must, however, say that the fact that the stories in the book deal with almost exclusively Jewish characters may somewhat hinder its being enjoyed by readers unfamiliar with that religion and background. But, all in all, it is a wonderful collection of stories both intelligent and tremendously funny.	2001-11-17
US	51734240	R1P3NO3FQ7Q55I	0156006405	10911834	The Thieves' Opera	Books	2	16	17	N	Y	Not nearly as good as I expected	I was disappointed in this book. Even though the author succeeds in painting quite a clear canvas of eighteenth-century London's underworld, she fails to make her subject - the two famed criminals - interesting. I didn't find their personalities gripping, or their stories attractive in the least. The narrative is reiterative, the same things being mentioned again and again, and disjointed, lacking cohesiveness. Curiously, the most interesting parts were those which were accessory to the main story, such as the description of the legal system and medical practice. I wouldn't completely dismiss Lucy Moore as a historian, though - she undoubtedly has done a thorough research, and is not totally ungifted as a writer - but I still think this material would have merited a better rendering.	2001-08-25
US	51734240	R293JM88O3BUZB	0292715412	271957618	The Decapitated Chicken and Other Stories (Texas Pan American Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A master of horror and suspense	Belatedly acknowledged as a masterful storyteller, Horacio Quiroga lived a life not a whit less tragical and colorful than those of his characters. From the beginning, his life was punctuated by tragedy and death, culminating in his suicide (he took cyanide). When still a teenager, he accidentally shot his best friend while showing him how to clean a gun. As an adult, he settled in the Misiones jungle, where he built a house with his own hands and tried to wring a living out of a farm. The life of hardship he endured there is masterfully reflected in some of his short stories, as are his lifelong obsessions, death and frustrated love. Quiroga was an admirer of Poe, and some of his early stories try to emulate the writer from Baltimore, but eventually he developed his own style, which is, I believe, even more accomplished than Poe's. In Quiroga's case, as has happened with many other writers, the life has obscured the works. Whenever he is mentioned, most people will tell you &quot;ah, yes, poor guy - everybody in his family killed themselves&quot;. But his short stories, with the exception of a few very famous ones that are taught in high school, are not so widely read. As you will find when reading this collection, he has an unique way of creating oppressive scenarios, charged with fear, tension, and the unseen presence of evil, which eventually leads to unexpected and fearsome climaxes. Yes, he is macabre, and yes, there is a very nasty streak running through some of these stories - but he is also a highly intelligent, resourceful and accomplished writer, and one you shouldn't miss for the world.	2001-07-24
US	51734240	R2H32CS8HGIJYW	0802135943	909387195	Summer of Betrayal: A Novel	Books	1	0	3	N	N	Not for intelligent readers	How do I describe this book? Let me try. First of all: it's bad. The style is rudimentary and unaccomplished. Second, it's shallow. Makes a very very very great effort to tell us how BAD it is to live in an awful country where you just can't be a poet or express who you are - but don't worry, an orgy on the floor of an enlightened youth's house will give the poor confused heroine the freedom she was so desperately looking for. Doesn't look exactly like freedom of the mind, though. The problem with this sort of cheap political pamphleteering unsuccessfully disguised as a novel, is that for some reason it gets lots of undeserved praise (one suspects that some readers and critics are more interested in thrashing a political regime they don't agree with, than in judging whether the book is good or bad), thus obscuring other books which are much better written but, alas, much less sensationalist. My advice? DON'T BUY IT, UNLESS FOR AN ENEMY.	2001-07-24
US	51734240	R3DQGJGECU0AYU	0300050992	262093823	Sir Philip Sidney: Courtier Poet	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Splendid	What a great book! This is biography at its best. Katherine Duncan-Jones succeeds in that most difficult of tasks - writing a biographical work that is at the same time scholarly and amusing. She paints a convincing portrait of this gifted, generous and tormented individual,who was also remarkably tolerant and warm-hearted for the times in which he lived. Sidney emerges from this book as a sophisticated and highly intelligent man who felt bitter and frustrated because of the unfair treatment he received at the hands of a capricious Queen, in whose service he nevertheless lost his very life. Altogether, I found Sidney very different from the typical Elizabethan - his dislike of hunting as a cruel, bloody sport, and his enlightened views on women are some of the traits in which we recognize a modern mind. And, nevertheless, after his absurd death he became a sort of hero or role-model for his contemporaries - many of whom hadn't recognized his worth while he lived. Duncan-Jones writes elegantly and in an entertaining style, quoting extensively from Sidney's writings as well as from those of his relatives and friends. I completely disagree with another reviewer, who criticized the &quot;extraneous material&quot; and the quantity of facts and persons in the book. No material is extraneous here: everything is relevant, either to Sidney's life or to the social and political context in which it must be viewed. As to the amount of characters - well, think about your own life: if someone were to write your biography, how many characters would there be? Four of five? I wouldn't trust a biography that didn't have many characters (even counting only the significant ones). After all, every person's life is complex - and full of other persons. All in all, this book is highly recommended - you'll gain a great awareness of an exceptional man.	2001-06-27
US	51734240	R3GYEBWYWDUL10	0316545562	70090647	A World Lit Only by Fire: The Medieval Mind and the Renaissance: Portrait of an Age	Books	2	7	13	N	Y	Dreary, dangerous, depressing?	While I find Mr. Manchester's style forceful and gripping, I don't at all agree with his description of the Middle Ages as one thousand years of slaughter, famine and pervert popes rollicking around, with very little else taking place. With the sole exception (thank God!) of the fornicating popes, the same things take place in our own times (the Holocaust, the Middle East wars, Somalia, endemic poverty in South America, and so on and on) and no one cries out that we're living in a &quot;dark age&quot; - even though we are.(In fact, I would be very wary of any book that tried to convince me that nothing worthwhile happened in a thousand years.) Mr. Manchester forgets the mystics, the poets, the painters, the pilgrims, and what not. His book, which is evidently aimed at the non-historians (a category I belong in), is exaggeratedly simplistic and reads like a sensationalist magazine. I don't like to read clich&eacute;s - I consider myself, as a reader of average intelligence, to deserve better.<br />Besides, some of the information Mr. Manchester gives seems at least dubious. For example: &quot;(page 22) Among the implications of this lack of selfhood was an almost total indifference to privacy. In summertime peasants went about naked&quot;. Really? Where? This is a typical example of a subject which is approached in a seemingly serious way, only to draw a conclusion which is too general in scope, and too insufficiently explained, to be believable. Another example of big words and small seriousness: &quot;(page 67) On Sundays, under watchful parental eyes, girls would dress modestly and be demure in church, but on weekdays they opened their blouses, hiked their skirts, and romped through the fields in search of phalli&quot;. Give me a break!!! All in all, this book, in spite of its powerful style (which was mildly entertaining until it became too inaccurate to read)was a disappointment. For a deeper probing into medieval life and thought, I recommend Johan Huizinga's &quot;The Autumn of the Middle Ages&quot;. It's a much older work, but much better too.The Autumn of the Middle Ages&quot;. It's a much older work, but much better too.	2001-05-26
US	51734240	RQ1DLO226FJ6E	1878818198	493249684	Poems of Jerusalem and Love Poems (Sheep Meadow Poetry)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	One of those voices you should stop and listen to	Yehuda Amichai is the kind of poet whose words and images you remember at the oddest times. He sticks to your mind - maybe because the quiet force with which he speaks of shadow and light, places and times, seasons and colors, longing and joy. Ever-present in his work are the themes of love, loss, and the harsh reality of war, but the effect is never one of violence - Amichai's poems have always made me feel peaceful and strangely contented. He is a poet for empathizing with. After reading him I feel as if I had taken a long walk on a sunny afternoon in the quiet neighborhood that I love. Excuse me for the ranting, but I can find no better way to express it. His Jerusalem emerges both as a real - and beautiful - city, and as an enchanted place where (like in the old fairytales) nothing is casual or common. He writes in the way I myself would like to write.	2001-05-26
US	51734240	RSQ53FVI44PY1	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	1	70	89	N	N	Go for the books that make you use your brains	Please, do not give me a &quot;not-useful&quot; vote just because I didn't like the book that your mom loved. I really think that this book has been shamefully publicized and acclaimed - it just isn't worth it. It's written like a book for (not very bright) children - but without the simple beauty that some books for children have - , trying to wring a best-seller out of the formula that makes books sell nowadays - seemingly miraculous revelations about the nature of life, that can make you &quot;suddenly&quot; discover the truth and go for it, thus giving your life a new significance. The truth is, revelations and life wisdom are not so easily achieved. This is basically a story about a boy who &quot;follows a dream&quot; (what dream?) and finds gold. No quest for art, no human relations, no warmth or beauty here - only gold. This has an almost embarrassing quality to me. Coelho's books (like the personal album with his picture and quotes from him - yes, no kidding) are commercial stuff. Nothing wrong with that - but maybe that's not what you're after. Maybe you really want the life teachings, or at least the sort of book that can make you meditate, mature, try to be a better person. My advice, then, is don't go for the commercial- don't buy the best-seller. Go for the real thing. No one is too uneducated or too slow not to be able to understand and profit from a really good book. People have been trying to explain the meaning of life since the beginning of the world. Don't try to find it in a money-making enterprise.	2001-05-26
US	51734240	R38LLKZK1DOHWU	0192818732	914262019	Selected Plays (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Elizabethans would be proud	I first came across Mr. Fry's work while taking a course in translation. One of the texts in the book, which you were supposed to translate into Spanish, was an extract of &quot;The Lady's not for Burning&quot;. A hard task indeed! I remember being intrigued by its originality and force, and keeping it in the back of my mind, until I finally bought this book. Well, what can I say? Mr. Fry has a gift - his plays are magnificent. I have seldom read anyone with such a command of language and a feel for the sheer beauty of it. Sometimes it seems like he's trying to revive that rich, rewarding complexity of the Elizabethan playwrights. And he succeeds. This is certainly one writer you shouldn't miss. There's something Shakespearean-like in these plays.	2001-05-16
US	51734240	R3LSPWGUEYGKAU	0670885371	886873880	Joan of Arc	Books	2	5	5	N	N	And where is the biography?	This is not a biography but a sort of reflection on Joan of Arc's life that gets a bit too romantical, reiterative and tedious after a while. I thought I was buying a biographical work (i.e., serious research, extensive sources, facts, and the like), so I was very disappointed. For those willing to learn more about Joan, I recommend Regine Pernoud's entertaining (and also scholarly) &quot;Joan of Arc: By Herself and Her Witnesses&quot;. At least, you'll be spared the Jean Plaidyish stuff.	2001-05-05
US	51734240	R1Q21B42L2F1RR	9504902286	66247593	Yo soy el Diego	Books	1	1	5	N	N	Junkie turned hero? C'mon!!!	The only good thing I can say about this book is that in just a week it saved my bookseller boyfriend from going bankrupt. And that, incidentally, shows just what society has become - avidly reading a book about an inveterate drug addict, a man who has a well-known dealer for his agent, and who doesn't seem to realize that this is not the right sort of behavior for someone every child in Argentina looks up to! He is at least a dubious sort of hero. And concerning his childhood in the slums (which no one denies must have been difficult) I will only say this: compare Maradona to Pel, who was also born in a slum, both in terms of character, personality and achievement, and see what you find.	2001-05-05
US	51734240	RQCG39O4JAJ6V	0684849690	231481016	The Secret Diary of Anne Boleyn	Books	1	12	15	N	N	History lovers strongly cautioned!!!	Let me say this for myself: I didn't buy this book, I got it as a gift from an unwary parent (otherwise a sharp book-buyer, but ...). Having definitely put it down after some sixty pages (and I still don't know how I got that far), I'm not sure whether I'm qualified to comment on it as a whole. But I completely agree with the other reviewers who pointed to its glaringly faulty use of &quot;Tudor&quot; speech and its historical inaccuracies, not to mention its soppy sentimentality and poorly delineated, monodimensional characters. Believe me, I have nothing against historical novels - so long as they stick to fact when portraying the times and people they are set in. Otherwise, whatever else they might be, they're not historical. The people and events here are oversimplified, and complex, interesting issues are completely lost in a silly love story. The author of this book certainly doesn't display the results of the &quot;serious research&quot; or &quot;invaluable knowledge and insight into the life and times of [her] characters&quot; that she mentions in the Acknowledgments section. If you want an entertaining read, while learning a little something about an epoch, there are lots of better books around.	2001-04-28
US	51734240	R2PQYTMGSGHA3	0753804611	191624894	Vita Brevis: A Letter to St Augustine	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Moving, unexpected book	I devoured this strangely moving book in about two hours, stranded inside a car during one of my former boyfriend's windsurfing forays - and closed it with a curious mixture of lingering anguish and that joy that sometimes comes with absolute recognition. The love story depicted here is very touching and anything but predictable. Some deep truths concerning love, endurance and the making of choices, are conveyed here through Floria's long-vanished voice.	2001-04-21
US	51734240	RWWVAF17TP2BG	0156011468	348535886	Poems New and Collected	Books	2	8	38	N	Y	What's all the fuss about?	Really, I don't see any greatness, width of scope or anything of the sort in these poems. I believe &quot;width of scope&quot; doesn't only mean addressing many subjects - it means how you address them as well. Granted, the poems are down-to-earth - and they do have a sort of quiet irony, if you wish - but that's it. There's no poetic spirit, none of that attempt to say everything (the beautiful as well as the ugly) in a deep and different way ... that attempt which, I believe, constitutes real poetry (and is perfectly compatible with wit or humor). I think this collection of poems has been praised far beyond its actual worth. Since I don't speak Polish, I can't comment on the translations, but what I see is that the voice, I mean the poetical voice, is lacking here. Sorry, but I haven't felt whatever it was that you guys found so inspiring.	2001-04-08
US	51734240	R1PZBNTRA5NLLY	0791445585	802023689	Dreaming the Actual: Contemporary Fiction and Poetry by Israeli Women Writers (SUNY series in Modern Jewish Literature and Culture)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Rich and multifaceted	A South American Catholic, I ordered this book containing the works of Israeli Jewish women in order to look at this beautiful, contradictory and war-ridden country from a different angle. Well, I was not disappointed. &quot;Dreaming the Actual&quot; is like a colorful patchwork, filled with voices, images and realities that draw you into a rich and changing picture. Though the presence of the Holocaust is, understandably, strong, there are no hackneyed stories here. The tragedy is evoked mostly through the experience of survivors' children, and is thus removed from the European stage to the one their lives are unfolding in. Also, I was pleased by the deep awareness of the Palestinian plight I found in some of the works. There are some really gifted women here. Both the stories' and the poems' quality is very high. I know I will return to this book again and again.	2001-04-08
US	51734240	RRDNPKPQC5J58	0802135943	909387195	Summer of Betrayal: A Novel	Books	1	1	5	N	N	Downright bad	I found this book to be pretentious and badly written. The author sure tries hard to make some sort of (political) statement throughout the novel, but the formula she employs (good, smart young girl trying to be a writer in a nasty Communist country) is nauseating besides hackneyed. Also, would someone please explain to me how exactly dancing naked at a party, having sex with several men on the floor, and getting arrested for it, amounts to &quot;fighting for intellectual freedom&quot;? Because I didn't quite catch the relationship between the two things.	2001-02-25
US	51734240	R1OFQSZWFOAJ7C	0300026889	416172504	Sir Thomas Wyatt, the Complete Poems (English Poets)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	One of the greatest poets in the English language	His voice still rings beautiful and true after five hundred years. What he has to say concerns our daily lives in this hard, competitive society as much as the intrigues of the Henrician court.	2001-02-25
US	51734240	RJGYW78G64U6	1853262080	699806276	Professor (Wordsworth Classics) (Wordsworth Collection)	Books	1	9	16	N	N	A great fiasco (is this really by Charlotte Brontë?)	Even one star is too much for some things. I can't believe that this boring, predictable and annoying book is by the author of &quot;Jane Eyre&quot;! (it may be wrong to make such a comparison, but there IS an abyss between the two novels.) This book is not only tedious and slow-moving, it also displays a surprising lack of sensitivity and warmth (which is strange, considering that Charlotte Brontë's novels usually have a good amount of both). What I disliked the most was the main character and narrator's open prejudice and racism against foreigners (the ones, incidentally, thanks to whom he could make a living outside his homeland, England). And the fact that this prejudice is not displayed as deserving criticism, or to show that it is wrong: it is just the way the worthy, women-protecting main character happens to think. I don't want to tire any of you with excessive quoting, so a few phrases will suffice: &quot;A dog, if stared at hard enough and long enough, will show symptoms of embarrassment, and so at length did my bench of Belgians&quot; (chapter VII). &quot;Their [the youth of Brabant's] intellectual faculties were generally weak, their animal propensities strong (...) They were dull, but they were also singularly stubborn, heavy as lead (...) having short memories, dense intelligence, feeble reflective powers (...)&quot; - anything else, one wonders? - (chapter VII). &quot;(...) you would speedily receive proofs of Flemish gratitude and magnanimity in showers of Brabant saliva and handfuls of Low Country mud&quot;. (same chapter - isn't this disgusting, coming, as it supposedly does, from a teacher?) &quot;Behind and below her were seated a band of very vulgar, inferior-looking Flamandes, including two or three examples of that deformity of person and imbecility of intellect whose frequency in the Low Countries would seem to furnish proof that the climate is such as to induce degeneracy of the human mind and body&quot; (chapter XII - no comments). The whole book is filled with this dreadful kind of stuff. It is impossible to sympathize with its racially prejudiced and self-righteous hero - in fact, I hated him throughout the book! My advice: if you are a fan of Charlotte Brontë's work and want to keep on being one, pretend she never wrote this. And if you're just interested in her books or want to read a good one, don't buy &quot;The Professor&quot;. It's the definitive trash.e book is filled with this dreadful kind of stuff. It is impossible to sympathize with its racially prejudiced and self-righteous hero - in fact, I hated him throughout the book! My advice: if you are a fan of Charlotte Bront's work and want to keep on being one, pretend she never wrote this. And if you're just interested in her books or want to read a good one, don't buy &quot;The Professor&quot;. It's the definitive trash.	2001-02-10
US	51734240	R2CLNHFNYNUFK4	082831800X	454331515	An Essay on Crimes and Punishments (International Pocket Library) (International Pocket Library)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A comforting read	Reading Beccaria's masterpiece was truly comforting, in a sense in which more recent works are not. In a world where increasing numbers of people are in favor of the death penalty, and where the rights of the person under trial sometimes don't seem to matter, this rational, lucid and yet quietly compassionate book was a worthwhile read. Its enlightened, ingenious and sometimes colloquial way of presenting arguments is even more satisfying when you place the book in its historical context (Beccaria's ideas were truly revolutionary by the time's standards) and learn that, after it was published, many works were written in reply to it, defending and trying to morally justify the use of torture in judicial proceedings. You should read this essay in order to fully grasp this great leap in the history of juridical thought and philosophy.	2001-01-11
US	51734240	R3706K9E3JJZJD	0393308804	25935067	Wide Sargasso Sea: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A good, too-little-known book	This is a fine novel indeed!Jean Rhys's prose is compelling, darkly powerful, and touched by the magical light of the Caribbean. The story unravels through the words of its increasingly disturbed heroine, and offers a new, fascinating side to the tragical wife of Jane Eyre's beloved, while keeping completely apart from that book.	2001-01-06
US	51734240	RRIL5F1RU4JZH	0393308804	25935067	Wide Sargasso Sea: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A good, too-little-known book	This is a fine novel indeed!Jean Rhys's prose is compelling, darkly powerful, and touched by the magical light of the Caribbean. The story unravels through the words of its increasingly disturbed heroine, and offers a new, fascinating side to the tragical wife of Jane Eyre's beloved, while keeping completely apart from that book.	2001-01-06
US	51734240	R2EZ5406VTHTZF	014018306X	106886609	To the North (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	12	18	N	N	An absolute must	This finely wrought book is moving, believable and deep-probing. Its amazingly sharp insight goes hand in hand with a command of language that reminds the reader of Forster.	2001-01-04
US	51734240	R1KKGWU2AN6Y9C	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	1	26	34	N	N	Absolutely annoying	This book belongs to the newly-fashionable trend according to which, the worse-written and emptier a book is, the more &quot;wisdom&quot; and &quot;life teachings&quot; it is reported to contain! Please! It didn't tell me anything I didn't know since I was five - and it's not even as touching and delicate as &quot;The Little Prince&quot;!	2000-12-19
US	51734240	REECBKZV858C8	0060956550	18408276	Pushkin: A Biography	Books	2	8	9	N	Y	Disappointing	I expected a lot more from this biography. It is muddled, confusing and full of inaccuracies. To start with, there seems to be a real problem with patronymics, which shouldn't happen in a book about a Russian man! For example, Pushkin's lover, Anna Petrovna Kern, appears on the index both as &quot;Kern, Anna Petrovna&quot; and &quot;Petrovna, Anna&quot; - as if she were two different people! This is annoying for anybody who knows that &quot;Anna Petrovna&quot; (name+patronymic) means only &quot;Anna, daughter of Peter&quot;, and gives no clue as to the person's surname.  All right, this may not be the author's fault, but that of the person in care of the index. And yet, the book itself has many mistakes of the kind. For instance, the chapter dedicated to Pushkin's wife, Natalya Nikolaevna Goncharova, opens with the words &quot;It was at a Moscow ball in the winter season of 1828 that Pushkin first saw Natalya IVANOVNA Goncharova (my capitals), then a sixteen-year-old beauty...&quot; This mistake is repeated more than once. In fact, Natalya Ivanovna was Natalya Nikolaevna's mother, Pushkin's mother-in-law. A biography cannot contain such inaccuracies. Besides, Pushkin's numerous love affairs and relationships are insufficiently explicated, and the whole of the narrative is confusing and takes you annoyingly back and forward through the years. A biography should be more accurate and more carefully written. I enjoyed some parts, though - but I'm afraid it was mostly because of my own interest in its subject!	2000-12-19
US	51734240	R3PZYXAI0EWHZ2	9681906144	654436613	Buzon de tiempo (Spanish Edition)	Books	1	1	11	N	N	Not worth your time or money	Please, do not be fooled into thinking that these weak, hackneyed and uninteresting stories are the best that Uruguayan literature has to offer! Try instead the works of Juan Carlos Onetti, Eduardo Galeano or Horacio Quiroga, and do not waste your money into these overvalued and overpraised works that do not even provoke you into thinking.	2000-12-19
US	51734240	R37AA21X5Y8MAA	0750920793	493165585	The Last Days of Charles I	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Fast-paced and compelling	For anyone interested in the history of the English monarchy and the Civil War, this is a great book. It is well researched, elegantly written, and provides a fascinating insight into this melancholy, intellectual and kind-hearted man who proved himself, in many ways, spectacularly ill-suited for kingship. This book deserves to have a place in every history lover's shelf!	2000-12-19
US	51734240	R3TG6RH8FPIL8O	0385471904	203862461	Faith and Treason: The Story of the Gunpowder Plot	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Nothing less than wonderful	This book is nothing less than what we have come to expect from Lady Antonia Fraser. It is historically accurate down to the last detail, it is awfully interesting, it is learned and readable, it is food for thought - serious thought. At the end of the book, I wept - the story is so terrible and so moving. Living, as we are, in a time where racial and religious intolerance still thrive, these men's plight, their desperate (if morally questionable) course of action, and the utter misery in which their fellow Catholics were living, should make us all think. In superbly depicting for us this terrible and fascinating episode, Antonia Fraser leads us to further depths of understanding.	2000-12-10
US	51734240	R29AYCEJWY1BCM	0312186592	117179414	Restoration London: From Poverty to Pets, from Medicine to Magic, from Slang to Sex, from Wallpaper to Women's Rights	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Even if you don't love history, you'll love this book	While it's obvious that Ms. Picard, as she herself is careful to explain, is not a historian, she has accomplished something quite professional in this book. \\"Restoration London\\" aims at the social aspect of the times, and dives into the details of everyday life that really tell us what it was like to be there. What did people clean their teeth with? What chances did you have of surviving surgery? What happened to people too old to work? What expressions and words appeared in everyday speech around that time? Ms. Picard tells us all this, and more. The book is entertaining and written in a sort of smartly ironical style - but it's also serious, and you can see that a lot of research has gone into it. I strongly recommend it to everyone.	2000-12-10
US	51734240	R3AE1CO4JCJK3K	0786700300	150173973	Love's Witness: Five Centuries of Love Poetry by Women	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Insightful and filled with surprises	This is a great book! While the quality of the poems varies widely (there being a few which really don't deserve a place in any anthology), you will find many surprises in this book, some derived from the sheer historical interest of the works, some from unexpectedly masterly poems from little-known authors who will give you lines to remember! Every once in a while, a particular line or poem would leave me stunned at its beauty and the way it portrayed something I had personally felt (which is, by the way, one of the most important things that poetry aims at). See for example the work of Sarah Maguire, Patricia Beer, Kath Fraser and Marion Strobel, to name only a few. The biographical info is particularly useful if you want to read more from any of the authors, and also because of the interesting (if, inevitably, succinct) data it provides on these creative and talented women.	2000-12-10
US	51734240	R2AVYLJBGMXQMA	0781804302	286198273	Hebrew Love Poems	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Could be improved	Being a lover of Jewish poetry, I eagerly bought this book when I saw it on your web site. However, I was a bit disappointed. First, because I felt that some of the translations were a bit strained - although I cannot comment on their quality, not speaking the original language of the poems, I had the feeling that in some cases an effort was made to maintain the rhyme, and I believe that, in translating poems (even rhyming ones) one should not try to force rhymes, but stick to the flavor and meanings of the original as close as possible. I have seen few exceptions to this (translations which are poems in their own right, the work of very gifted translators), and that is why I prefer translations who keep to the literal side of the original. Also, I would have enjoyed at least some succint biographical information on the poets or some explanation of the poems' contexts - especially of ancient works. This would have contributed to the richness and completeness of the anthology, which, being as it is, is a bit sparse. In spite of the above, this is an interesting book which contains some very beautiful works deserving of attention.	2000-12-10
US	51734240	R2RUR57RGIA607	0345298063	451774652	Peter the Great: His Life and World	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Biography at its best	This is the most fascinating, fast-paced and thoroughly researched biography I have read in a long time! While depicting this intelligent, practical, and often unsensitive and cruel man, Mr. Massie has also succeeded in portraying for us the complex, war-ridden and changing times in which he lived. He depicts the rapaciousness of contemporary politics, the miseries and hardships of war, the greed of the rich and powerful... but without unnecessary sentimentalism, and without (as far as I could ascertain) straying from historical fact. His human subject remains interesting and many-faceted to the end. In writing this great and ambitious book, Mr. Massie has given us a work of epical dimensions.	2000-12-10
US	51734240	R3O7F06VPPK9ZX	038531129X	905531819	Mary Queen of Scots	Books	5	11	12	N	N	She never disappoints us	Every time I finish one of Lady Antonia Fraser's historical works, it is with a deep feeling of satisfaction, and also with newly-increased admiration for her intelligence and analytical skills. Queen Mary comes completely alive in this book, and we walk with her along the smooth way of her happy early life and the treacherous paths of her adulthood, while learning a lot about her historical background and her genuine, deep sensitivity. This was a great woman, and Fraser does a great job in this engaging, comprehensive portrait.	2000-12-10
