US	51730223	R1KMWEUA5458J5	0060092149	56850698	Married to the Viscount (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 5)	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Another sexy read from Sabrina Jeffries	Sabrina Jeffries is one author that has written romance novels that I have absolutely loved and written others that I could barely finish.  What have I not liked in those books?  Aggravating heroines.  But Married to the Viscount's heroine, Abigail Mercer, did not fall into that category.  She was a highly likable heroine and I loved this tale of Abigail and her viscount.  True to Jeffries style, her hero is strong, strong, strong and in control - or at least he tries to be.<br />Viscount Spencer Law has recently returned from a trip wherein he visited his brother in America.  During his trip he had become acquainted with Abigail Mercer, the daughter of a successful medicinal inventor.  Spencer never intends to marry so he ignores his attraction to Abigail.  His refusal to marry is at the heart of Married to the Viscount and is not your usual \\"I don't plan to marry\\" hero talk.  Spencer plans for his younger brother to continue their family line.  However, his brother doesn't want that responsibility either although their reasoning is vastly different.<br />Abigail was fascinated with Viscount Spencer Law when he visited America.  She fondly remembers him and eagerly accepts his proposal of marriage by proxy.  Spencer's brother stands in for him at this proxy marriage and makes plans for Abigail to travel to England to join her new husband once her father dies.  Abigail arrives in England at the viscount's residence about a month later and gives the viscount one big surprise.  It seems that Viscount Spencer Law knows nothing of his proxy marriage.  Their initial confrontation is made somewhat public since the viscount is hosting a dinner at the time.  Abigail faints, as she is thoroughly humiliated and greatly saddened at the truth - she is not married.  The viscount is confused, enraged, and at the same time sympathetic of Abigail's vulnerable situation.  He wants to do bodily harm to his scheming brother who masterminded this fake proxy marriage but he can't.  Hisbrother has disappeared and taken Abigail's dowry with him.<br />Just how this debacle is resolved is, of course, the story of Married to the Viscount.  Abigail is well rounded, sensible and mature.  She is also older than most virginal heroines.  Spencer is not so mature although he is the older, more seasoned of the two.  It is his fears and hurt that drive the interaction between the couple.  It is not a boring book in the least - it is a fascinating story that I found difficult to put down.  The action begins within the first dozen pages and it is basically a love story.  There are no villains lurking around the corner.  The couple doesn't spend time with silly misunderstandings or lies.  Jeffries treats her readers to an intense love story beyond the typical romance plot lines.  The story is a luscious one as well and the sensual rating is about a 4.25 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />All said - I think you can tell that I highly recommend Married to the Viscount.  It is a refreshing romance that I will keep to read another day.	2004-02-21
US	51730223	R3Q8BVUY2E2QBR	0736642803	925562381	Dream A Little Dream	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Stirring-loss, survival, passion, & the love of a little boy	Susan Elizabeth Phillips is quickly becoming a favorite author of mine.  This is her fourth book I have read in the past month and I have given three of those books the highest rating.  Her stories are so touching and full of life.  In Dream a Little Dream, her leads are very likable with well-rounded and interesting secondary characters.  And one of those secondary characters is Rachel's five-year-old son, Edward.  At times your heart loves him and breaks for him as he attempts to guard his mom, arrange a marriage for her, and put down roots in Salvation.  This is not some cutesy kid - this is a heartrending portrayal of the son of a single mom who doesn't expect any one to like him and requires so little in life for happiness.  As the son of a crooked, notorious, deceased televangelist, he has experienced a lot of rejection.  There is a lot to be worked out in his life and it is a very dear sideline for this story.  His relationship with the hero is realistic - filled with problems and those problems propel the turning point of the book.<br />Rachel has returned to her former home of Salvation, North Carolina - a place where she is despised because she is the widow of the deceased televangelist who put Salvation on the map and then ran away with millions from his ministry.  They believe she was involved in the religious scam and spurn her and her son at every turn.  Rachel is totally without money, friends, family, or resources.  Her car breaks down as she is nearing Salvation at an old drive in movie theatre.  There she meets Gabe Bonner who has purchased the old drive in and is restoring it.  He has advertised for help and she decides she will fill the job.  However, Gabe wants nothing to do with this woman and her young son.  He is unkind, insulting, and pushy as he demands that they get off his property.<br />Gabe is a rugged, good-looking man recovering from a tragic loss.  Even with his pushy, rude treatment of Rachel and Edward in the beginning of the book,he still appears as an overall attractive and very desirable man.  Gabe is unaware that Rachel's broken down car is their home and calls a tow truck to get it and them off his property.  But Rachel won't give up so easily.  She is probably the most persistent heroine I have read and Gabe eventually gives in and hires her.  Gabe and Rachel find themselves drawn to one another although neither wants a relationship.  While Rachel would deny to anyone her poverty status, Gabe begins to recognize the many things Rachel and Edward go without and attempts to help them financially.  It was rather refreshing when Rachel accepted his help - that seems to be in the \\"no-no\\" book of rules for romance heroines.  So often the heroine refuses sensible help because she doesn't want to appear \\"bought\\".  However, Rachel had no such qualms.<br />The characters from Nobody's Baby But Mine return in this book.  I have not read this prequel to Dream a Little Dream.  I think I would have enjoyed this book even more if I had but it also stands fine as a read alone book.  One adult secondary character you will really enjoy is Gabe's younger brother - a pastor in Salvation.  I have read few - if any - realistic portrayals of a minister in romance.  But this one is really well done and adds greatly to the story line.  Cal, Gabe's older brother (and the hero from Nobody's Baby But Mine), is quite the antagonist and behaves rather badly towards Rachel.  He's a former good guy who becomes one you \\"love to hate\\" at one point in Dream a Little Dream.  His comeuppance is served so well and with such subtle humor that it is one you will definitely remember.<br />I highly recommend Dream a Little Dream.  It is a moving story in so many aspects.  There are no silly misunderstandings between the leads and they both act quite maturely once they become involved.  The sensual rating is about a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  Dream a Little Dream is the third of four books in theChicago Stars series.  First in the series is Heaven, Texas followed by Nobody's Baby But Mine, then Dream a Little Dream, with This Heart of Mine as the last.	2004-02-11
US	51730223	RM6ODI5QV6BCR	006108462X	58638801	Cool Shade	Books	5	20	22	N	N	This book was too short but marvelous nonetheless	Theresa Weir is a distinct voice in romance writing.  She writes atypical story lines with no cookie cutter romance characters.  Her tales run deep and she gives us real people as her leads.  Each Weir book I have read to date has positively affected me in some unique way.  You want these people as your friends and can truly feel the trials and joys they experience.  This author writes some of the best contemporary romances I have read.  All I could find to complain about in Cool Shade is that the story was too short!  It is only 258 pages and I usually prefer books that are at least 350 pages in length.  I was sorry to see such a tender, moving story come to an end so suddenly.<br />Maddie Smith is a disc jockey without a job.  She never seems to stay long in one place and actually enjoys moving around.  So when her job in Arizona ends, she heads to Nebraska to see her estranged sister taking all her belongings and her cat with her.  When she arrives at her sister's home, Maddie becomes concerned - it is obvious that she has disappeared.  In searching for clues to her disappearance, she visits Eddie Berlin, a reclusive hunk who doesn't stray much further than his own front yard.<br />Eddie Berlin was the manager of famous rock musician who died after being shot at a concert.  Eddie has become more and more withdrawn since the time of his friend's death.  Now he can't seem to go out in public and has all of life's necessities delivered to his forty-acre farm.  Eddie, despite his odd behavior, is quite a sexy and considerate guy.  When a strange lady shows up in his front yard, falling flat on her face, Eddie is suspicious of her motives for coming to visit.<br />Cool Shade is a gentle drama of a budding romance between two very likable characters.  Maddie exhibits a bit of odd behavior herself in the beginning but attraction develops anyway.  Eddie and Maddie share a relationship neither is ready to acknowledge.  There are no strong misunderstandings or cruel behavior from one to the other.  It's just a great little romance story.  The sensual scenes rate about a 3.75 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />This is my third Weir book and I will eagerly seek out more of her books to read.  Unfortunately, some of those other books are also around 250 pages.  But this is one author that I will allow a shorter story than I usually prefer because her books are just so dog gone good.  Although Cool Shade and other of Weir's books are out of print, there are many used and even new copies available at bargain prices on this site and other internet stores.	2004-02-07
US	51730223	R35U2PVPE9UT81	0843949333	365134060	The Marriage Bed (Leisure historical romance)	Books	5	30	32	N	N	A sexy monk?  Definitely!	The Marriage Bed has been in my \\"to be read\\" shelf for some time now.  I kept avoiding it because I could not find much romance in the book's synopsis.  The hero is a monk, living in an abbey, and even when forced into marriage by the king, wants to remain celibate.  Okayyyy - that certainly sounded like a boring premise for a romance.  But, I went on the favorable recommendations of many reviewers and took a dive.  Was I knocked off my feet!  It was \\"full steam ahead\\" from the first pages and I knew I was reading a great romantic tale.<br />Richard, the hero, was highly appealing despite his morose thoughts.  Although we see Richard in the abbey, he never appears monkish.  Oh - he wants to be a monk but he struggles daily - possibly even hourly - with lust.  He's a very lusty guy, shut away in an abbey, attempting to rid himself of this blight on his soul.  And the abbey has done nothing to tame his domineering personality<br />Isabel is the only heir to a large keep, Dornei, and her father has just died.  She is betrothed to an heir of another large keep and the marriage has been arranged to align these two strong properties into one.  In the opening pages, Isabel is running from Dornei to the abbey for protection.  Although she is betrothed, there is more than one man who wants to lay claim to Isabel and her inheritance.  The abbey allows Isabel sanctuary and sends for her betrothed only to be notified that he has died.  The second son also is dead, leaving the third son as heir and the newly proclaimed future husband to Isabel.  That third son is Richard.  Isabel is thrilled because she has loved Richard since she was a young girl and never wanted to marry his brother.  She has prayed for Richard to be her husband and has only dreamed of such a union.  Now it is happening and she cannot hide her immense joy over the union.<br />Richard is a resident of that abbey Isabel flees to for protection.  Soon after her arrival, he is notified of the death of his two older brothers and informed that he is to marry Isabel.  Richard is furious and refuses to marry her.  But the king's wishes for this marriage win out and Richard goes fuming into his own wedding.  He believes Isabel is a spoiled young lady who has gotten her way and resents her greatly.  He exhibits no feelings towards Isabel and refuses to have anything to do with her.  As they ride off towards Dornei, now man and wife, Isabel remains ecstatic with her marriage and Richard only grows angrier over the union.  .  As soon as Richard and Isabel reach Dornei, he is immediately about the business of being lord.  He is very efficient as he attends to his new duties - with the exception of the marriage bed.  That is something he just doesn't want to face - yet.<br />The Marriage Bed is quite an unusual romance in several aspects:<BR>- The vast majority of the story occurs over just a few days.<BR>- There is sufficient cause behind Richard's angst to cause his actions seeking absolution.  His hidden secret is not the usual unbelievable childhood with a cruel, abusive father or mother.<BR>- Although this story occurs over just a few days, there is a tremendous amount of growth for both the hero and heroine as they deal with the truth and uncover the secrets.<BR>- The heroine wants the marriage bed more than hero but don't let that little fact influence your choice to read this book.  This is one very virile hero.<BR>- The sincere concerns about morality play a huge part in the undercurrent of the story.<BR>- The hero and heroine have known each other well since childhood.<BR>- This hero was a very humble man - so much so that it made him a much stronger individual.<BR>- Religion is a significant part of this story.  Even the two experienced, strong knights who come to help guard Dornei spend time kneeling in prayer.  Religion is given the proper place it truly occupied in this time in history.  It is not harsh but seen as a means of desired stamina.<br />This book does not contain the overused plot line of a misunderstanding.  The dialogue between the leads is honest although hurtful at times.  They don't throw ugly words at one another.  The hero may desire celibacy in the beginning but this ends up being quite a sensual book.  The sensual rating is 4.25 out of 5.0 (See More About Me for rating guidelines).  I loved The Marriage Bed and highly recommend it.  It is only my second Dain book and I will now eagerly read more of her backlist.	2004-02-05
US	51730223	R2LHULWPLCV8J3	0380802325	85428738	Suddenly You	Books	5	8	8	N	N	This is a perfect representation of great, sensual romance	I first read Suddenly You about two years ago, when I first began reading romance.  I did not write reviews at the time but would make a few notes to myself concerning how much I enjoyed the book - if it were keeper status - and then assigned a grade to it.  Of course I gave Suddenly You the highest rating two years ago but my only notes were \\"Read again and again and again!\\"  Although I have a fairly large keeper shelf, I seldom read books that second time.  I think I'll change my mind about that because I enjoyed Suddenly You as much or more the second reading and it still goes back on my keeper shelf.  It is a great romance with a bit of naughtiness and great leads.  I remember that I had relished Kleypas' unusual characters in that they were - refreshingly - not members of the aristocracy.  And even though I have literally read hundreds of romance books since Suddenly You, I still remembered the opening scene.  It really sticks in your mind.  Where else in romance have I read of a nineteenth century spinster hiring a man to take her virginity for her thirtieth birthday present to herself?<br />Amanda Briars is a strong mature heroine who also is a well-known author.  She lives a contented life in London in her small home with three servants.  She is not rich but she has a comfortable income and decides that before she is too old, she wants to experience a physical relationship with a man just once.  She never plans to marry and believes it would be foolish to hope for marriage at her age.  Although she is very attractive, she does not see herself as much beyond plain.  The night of her thirtieth birthday, a man shows up at her door to talk with her about publishing one of her books and Amanda mistakes him as her \\"gift\\".<br />Jack Devlin is a man who knows what he wants in life and accomplishes almost anything he sets out to do.  He has risen from a penniless youth to own the largest publishing house in London and has diversified this publishing business into many additional sources of income.  He is our classic hero with an extreme amount of arrogance, alpha deluxe, handsome, and rich.  He is a workaholic basically and doesn't care much for society unless it is to advance his business interests.  He visits Amanda Briars one evening to discuss publishing with her and is greatly surprised to find that she believes him to be her hired \\"gift\\" for the evening.  The resulting scenario is quite entertaining but Jack ends up being a good guy in the end (he thinks) by not completely fulfilling the \\"gift\\" role.  He leaves without making Amanda aware of his true identity.<br />Within days of this encounter, Amanda formally meets Jack for the first time at a party and is greatly mortified and incensed that Jack played along - even a little - as her birthday \\"gift\\".  The delicious repartee between the two fill pages as they get to know each other and as Jack pursues Amanda concerning publishing one of her novels.  But Jack doesn't just pursue Amanda for business purposes.  They both are highly attracted to the other and although each is determined not to indulge in an affair - it seems it is beyond their control.  The book is highly entertaining and quite sensual.  The sensual rating is a strong 4.50 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  Amanda keeps a pretty sound head throughout it all.  I thought most of her actions seemed realistic and well warranted considering the social expectations of the day.  Jack is not as protective of Amanda's reputation as he should be and thus the story spins.<br />Suddenly You is probably my favorite Kleypas book to date.  I have read nine of her books and I can't remember being disappointed in any if them.  Once I began reading her books, she quickly became one of my favorite authors.  She also holds the status of a \\"must read\\" author when she releases a new book.  She consistently writes highly entertaining historical romance.	2004-01-27
US	51730223	RI0X7OLASJ6R	031298460X	529940744	Complete Abandon	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Terrific - this is Holt at her best	I have really enjoyed Cheryl Holt's books with the exception of Absolute Pleasure, her novel prior to Complete Abandon.  Absolute Pleasure was average at best and disappointed me because I expect above average writing from Holt.  But she is at her best once again with Complete Abandon and I was able to determine that within the first fifty pages of the book (and I'm not talking about the sensual scene from the first few pages).<br />Viscount Wakefield, John Clayton, is one of those immoral heroes who is too wealthy for his own good.  He isn't too pleased with the many responsibilities required of a viscount who owns numerous properties.  He has spent years in decadent living - always partying, gambling, womanizing, and whatever else he can do to provide a thrill to his very tainted life - a life that is becoming quite boring.  He visits one of his estates, Wakefield, and begins the tedious task of making the estate profitable once again. Fearing boredom, John has brought with him to Wakefield his mistress, brother, and a crowd of equally decadent revelers who are ever willing to accept John's immense hospitality.<br />Emma is a heroine with a lot of zest, purpose, and down right audacity.  She is the daughter of Wakefield's deceased vicar and is known to protect those she loves.  The villagers petition Emma's assistance when many receive eviction notices from the newly arrived viscount.  Emma is incensed when she realizes the eviction notices are directed to those retired, ill, or fatherless.  She eagerly takes up the village's cause and tromps to the estate family's home to confront the viscount with his poor judgment, stingy inclinations, and downright villainous tendencies as he evicts the most needy from their homes.  Emma has heard all of the horrible rumors about John Clayton's despicable behavior and it only makes her more determined to face him down and hammer some sense into him.<br />John is having a fairly boring morning, complete with a boring sexual encounter with his mistress.  This is the opening pages scene that has been commented on in many reviews.  Afterwards, he is holding a rather boring informal business meeting with his brother when this unknown woman demands entrance to his home.  His butler is unable to keep her out of the house and this stranger barges straight into John's library where he sits with his brother and his mistress.  Well, John is one of those alpha males who always want to be in charge but, as a gentleman, he attempts to placate this furious, beautiful lady and get her out of his house.  Soon John is speechless as he learns this vicar's daughter doesn't think too highly of him and is actually criticizing him!  And insulting him - a lot!  She is dictating to him about his duties and detailing his many failures.  As he attempts to speak to Emma, she keeps up her tirade and refuses his efforts to dismiss her.  So John, ever the devil viscount that he is, makes a rude and shocking proposition to her in exchange for his withdrawal of the eviction notices.  Of course, his intention is to cause her to run from his house - away from his evil, reprehensible suggestion - and the obviously depraved person he is.  He expects this vicar's daughter to scamper away in fear and out of his home forever.  But Emma is one step ahead of him and stuns him by taking up his challenge.  This all occurs within the opening pages of the book and is one of the more entertaining scenes I have read in romance writing.  I really savored this interaction between the two.  John is stunned as Emma not only agrees to his proposition but also insists he put it in writing.<br />So, Complete Abandon is off and running fast.  There is not a dull moment from page one and Emma and John's relationship is at once adversarial as well as intensely sensual.  Their relationship is unlike most romance plots.  Oh there are similar elements to mainstream historical romances but the situations between Emma and John are unusual and refreshing.  Most of all they captivate you as they each try to outmaneuver the other.  It is a rollicking story with many ups and downs as well as containing some serious overtones.  John's continued shock at Emma's behavior is humorous throughout the book.  Their relationship, as to be expected, does become physical eventually and these sensual scenes rate a strong 4.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  John holds true to his alpha character but it does not rule the book, as is so often the case.  Emma remains strong and resilient without becoming tiresome or irritating.  The chemistry is strong between these two yet their situation is a bit sad since neither expects anything lasting from the other.<br />I highly recommend Complete Abandon.  It goes on my keeper shelf - I have not had many of those lately.  Thanks Cheryl Holt for a fantastic and fun story.	2004-01-21
US	51730223	R2IRB6Y9H30OD6	0385417829	328063737	Last Summer	Books	5	45	45	N	N	Outstanding, outstanding contemporary romance!	It is difficult for me to find contemporary romances that I really enjoy.  Too often I find the story lines the same with little character development, no depth to the story, and usually an ill attempt at humor - while the hero and heroine circle each other trying to prove who is the most sexually aggressive.  Last Summer certainly does not fall into any of those categories.  It is a serious romance with realistic characters - even if one is a Hollywood bad boy.  It is a tender story of two imperfect people who seem too different for a relationship yet find themselves drawn together by circumstance again and again.  There are very moving scenes as well as some delicious dialogue as the leads attempt to discover the truth about each other.<br />Johnnie Irish is the local bad boy who has made it big in Hollywood. He doesn't enjoy the thought of returning to his hometown - he hates it.  But they have invited him to be the star of a parade - it might be entertaining to see people act like they adore him when he received nothing but rejection from them growing up.  Johnnie seems to have little value for life and even less ethics.  He plays the part of a spoiled and immature Hollywood hunk but it's just an act.  He hides his pain from the world and himself well.  That is until he meets Maggie.<br />Maggie Mayfield is a normal, everyday schoolteacher in a small town in west Texas.  She is a widow who lives a very controlled and pleasant life.  Maggie is more mature than most romance heroines.  She is refreshing, solid and real but not at all perfect.  She never dreamed that Johnnie would ever consider her as more than a summer fling.  Her honest and sensible way of life makes quite an impression on Johnnie.  Yet she is dishonest and fearful later in the book.  And I think that is one of the best things about Last Summer.  The leads were human and made mistakes just like all the rest of us.  There was nothing unbelievable about the story - no stretches of the imagination are required.<br />Maggie and Johnnie form a friendship of sorts as he decides to stay in his hometown for a few weeks.  Maggie discovers that Johnnie is a diabetic and becomes genuinely concerned about his careless attitude towards his illness and life.  Their relationship develops in many aspects and soon you find yourself thoroughly engrossed in this exceptional story.  The book covers a longer period of time than most romances and the leads actually live hundreds of miles from one another much of that time.  However, the author does not make us wait out those separations.  Time passes quickly for the reader when Maggie and Johnnie are apart.  Regardless of their separations, they are still together for the vast majority of the book.  The sensual scenes rate about 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  And best of all - this is a story about Johnnie and Maggie's relationship.  There are no villains planning evil in the background.  It is true romance at it's best.<br />I highly recommend this story and believe you will be delighted as each entrancing layer unfolds.  Now I am searching Weir's backlist for more great reads.  Last Summer has found a permanent place on my keeper shelf.	2004-01-21
US	51730223	R3C8E8C9MMNNJ4	0380808080	316913360	This Heart of Mine	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An absolutely awesome contemporary romance!	This Heart of Mine had it all when it comes to a great contemporary romance.  The leads were well written and very likable, the story line did not have even one boring page, the secondary characters were really interesting, the romance was the primary emphasis throughout the book and the chemistry between the hero and heroine was sizzling.  Add to that a most charming location, a very original story line, great humor throughout the book - yet a depth that kept this tale from being light hearted - and you have one of the best contemporary romances I have read in some time. <br />Kevin Tucker is one of the best quarterbacks in the NFL and plays for the Chicago Stars.  Kevin is quite the celebrity and is very dedicated to his profession.  Although Kevin is a bit of a womanizer and is known to date a lot of women that aspect makes up very little of the actual man Kevin is.  He has been playing professionally for ten years for the Stars and plans to stay with the Chicago team even beyond his actual football career.  He envisions coaching the team someday and remaining within the Stars corporate environment even beyond that.  Football is his job and he makes sure his personal life does not cross with his professional life.  Part of that isolation involves not becoming too close to the family that owns and manages the Stars.  He is friends with the owners but never even considers a relationship with the owner's sister although he finds her attractive.<br />Molly Somerville is considered a spoiled heiress.  Her sister owns the Chicago Stars football team and although Molly is very close to her sister and her family, she does not want or live a high profile life.  In fact, the fifteen million Molly's father left to her now sits in a non-profit organization she created for a charity.  Molly did not like the life of an heiress and her tendency to rely on her father's money rather than hard work for her living.  So, she gave it away and now lives month to month as a fairly successful children's author.  She loves her life and is actually quite mature in her life choices.  She does not date men frivolously.  When she finds herself sharing a vacation home, by mistake, with the famous quarterback of the Chicago Stars, she is quite startled by her overwhelming attraction to him.  I can't say much more without giving away a portion of the story but this is the beginning of a somewhat reluctant relationship between Molly and Kevin.  The book is quick to draw you in and has a most unusual beginning to the leads' improbable romance.<br />This was a book I did not want to put down.  I loved the story - laughing again and again and then alternately feeling a tender sadness for Kevin and Molly - both with their experiences and vulnerabilities.  This very entertaining story has quite a serious side but Phillips is very talented at blending the two aspects into an entrancing story.  The sensual rating is about 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  Two of the secondary characters, who are age 50 and 50 plus, add a very sexy flair with their relationship.  This is a welcome surprise for the many romance readers out there that are members of the baby boomer generation.<br />I highly recommend This Heart of Mine.  It was thrilling to find such a good book after a rather dry run in reading.  This is my second Phillips book and I am eager to work through her backlist.  It is a definite keeper.	2004-01-21
US	51730223	R2LGXNLEUF9SZY	051512088X	46135796	Rosehaven (Song Series)	Books	5	40	44	N	N	Subtle humor and great love story regardless!	This review is written and ready to go online.  As I prepare to enter it, I am amazed at the tremendous criticism of this book I see already posted.  It is apparent my views differ greatly from some other reviewers.  I tend to read a book within the context the author has created.  If I don't like that author's writing style, I don't read their books again.  Coulter is a writer that is on the rougher side of romance.  Many would tame that by stating that her writing is politically incorrect.  However, when I pick up a Coulter book, I know it is probably not going to be warm and fuzzy and it will probably contain an overly aggressive hero.  And since I believe overly aggressive heroes are common then and now, I submerge myself into this different type of romance.  I am not making a political statement with this review.  I really enjoyed this book and am not ashamed to admit it.  I liked the hero and the heroine and don't believe this writing or me to be sick.  I think it was very entertaining.  Now for my review in it's original form:<br />I have only recently discovered Catherine Coulter.  While I know her writing style can cause great controversy, I have found most of the four Coulter books I have read to date to be quite entertaining.  I am somewhat bothered by the hero's ruthlessness in some of her books but I am also one that accepts such ruthless behavior as part of the story and can accept a tarnished man as a hero.  Rosehaven is my favorite Coulter book to date.  It has a delightful underlying subtle humor and both of the lead characters were well written.  I especially liked the heroine, Hastings and how easily she spoke her mind without hatefulness.  Usually I don't relish the presence of too many secondary characters but they were so interwoven into the overall story and lives of the hero and heroine that I found them quite interesting.  Overall, I had a great time reading this book and put it down only with great reluctance.  I eagerly watched for the next time I could continue reading it.<br />Severin is the hero, a medieval knight who has performed well in the Christian Crusades and is recognized as an accomplished, courageous, and talented man.  The Earl of Oxborough has chosen Severin to wed his only daughter, Hastings, claim all of the family's vast estates and riches, and continue the family line.  When he first appears at Oxborough Castle, he seems an unfeeling, dominating man who definitely believes he is in charge.  He does not hide his disdainful attitude towards his bride-to-be.  He is wedding her to obtain lands, title, and riches and in turn will provide heirs and excellent management of the estates.  At this point, I was not too crazy about Severin.  He seemed totally without feelings as was well noted by Hastings as she told Severin that he had the feelings of a toad.<br />Hastings is a vivacious and fun heroine forced into an unwanted marriage to this most insensitive man.  She attempts to talk her dying father out of the forced wedding but he refuses and insists they marry immediately before he dies. And then there is yet another reason for the urgency - the villain is coming to attack the castle and steal Hastings away and thus obtain her family's lands.  Through it all, Hastings keeps her chin up and is quite charming.<br />One of the greatest criticisms of this book is the abusive hero.  Yes, he is an aggressive husband who is definitely tarnished in that he forces the marriage bed.  He also humiliates Hastings as he disciplines her for her violent behavior.  Although I did not like his choice of discipline, I have to admit that Hastings's continual temper tantrums and many attempts to physically hurt Severin were tiring.  She would lose all control and I am amazed a medieval hero would tolerate it as well as he did.  Overall I found Severin to be quite a pleasant guy.  It was very amusing to watch his love for her grow and grow although he didn't realize it was happening.  And that is what I liked best about Rosehaven.  Through many trials and tribulations, we get to see the love develop between Severin and Hastings little by little throughout the book.  It is not a love that comes together suddenly at the end.  We are given pages and pages to savor the growth of this relationship and their romance is the primary storyline.  We actually get to see them happy together prior to the end of the book.  There are quite a few sensual scenes that rate about a 3.75 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  Although these scenes are not explicit, they are definitely sensual.  There is a lot of great chemistry between these two.<br />Overall, I loved this book!  I have not been this enthusiastic about a book in some time.  My ability to accept some politically incorrect behavior as part of medieval times definitely plays into this high rating.  I realize not everyone can accept the hero's negative behavior.  But since I have read other Coulter books, I can compare him to a few of her other heroes.  Compared to the heroes in The Devil's Embrace or Season of the Sun, this hero is tame.  I am looking forward to yet another Coulter adventure.  One thing I have discovered about her writing is that her books can vary tremendously.	2003-12-12
US	51730223	R1WEUYSENUA7IH	0380782308	138739167	Awaken, My Love	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Schone's first book and I think her best	I don't usually read Robin Schone books.  Well, actually, I have read all of her books, but have decided they are too dark and explicit for my tastes.  But after getting rid of Gabriel's Woman and The Lover (yes - I had to keep The Lady's Tutor), I had let Awaken My Love, Schone's first novel, sit unread for well over a year.  Now, after reading it, I think this is the best of Schone's books.  As are all of her books, it is far from the norm as far as romance writing goes.  It is very entertaining reading although it has a most unusual time travel twist.  I usually don't care much for time travel stories but this is a definite exception.<br />Charles Mortimer, Lord Arlcotte, is the extremely appealing hero.  He has a very strong personality, alpha extreme, but is just so downright cool that you want to melt as you read about him.  He has a great problem on his hands.  His young bride has never let him even touch her since their marriage a year ago.  No matter -  he is determined to have a heir.  He decides she will come to his bed and learn to like his touch.  He WILL warm his cold frigid wife.  After their joining however, he is quite discouraged.  She apparently despises him.  Imagine his surprise when he finds his wife emerging from her bath.  Charles knows something is awry - Morrigan has not taken a full bath since their marriage.  She is different somehow and although he is still angry over her distaste of him, he cannot seem to resist tormenting and teasing her.  He is continually drawn to this oddly different Morrigan and is encouraged to proceed with her education despite her protestations.  He can see the difference in her eyes - he senses she will now accept his advances.<br />Elaine Metcliffe is a twentieth century gal, thirty-nine years of age, who is a computer analyst married to a really boring guy.  They have been married for years and he has never been too interested in their love life and has no desire for children.  One morning she awakens to findherself in another time and another body.  Her body is no longer the slightly chubby body close to forty - it is a very young and slender body of a woman named Morrigan.  An old hateful nag is apparently her maid - one who acts like a mad, religious zealot, constantly  shouting about Morrigan's sins and her need for cleansing and forgiveness.  Attempting to adjust to this highly distressing change of events, Elaine (Morrigan) asks to take a bath and all hell breaks loose.  Insisting on a bath and then dressing in one of Morrigan's many beautiful gowns, gains the attention of everyone in the household.  Morrigan has only worn one ill-fitting gray dress for the past year.  She has never desired to wear any of the beautiful clothes her husband gifted her with as her trousseau upon their marriage.  And certainly she has never taken a bath!  Elaine is startled when she sees an extremely handsome and obviously very virile man standing in her room as she is finishing with her bath.  Soon she discovers this is now her husband and he is very angry with her for some reason.<br />So begins the sensual education of Morrigan (and actually Elaine as well since she is a sexually repressed twentieth century woman).  Highly intrigued by her husband's lessons, she also feels unfaithful to her twentieth century husband.  Charles, on the other hand, is alternately thrilled at his wife's apparent sexual awakening and angered by her denial of it.  But he has become very determined in his quest and will brook no argument.  This portion of the book, which is the majority of it, is overlaid with tenderness as Charles comes to appreciate and cherish his strange wife.  This is what sets Awaken My Love apart.  Although nothing is spoken of love early on, the leads' relationship develops slowly into one of trust and respect.  It is that which drives the overall tone of the book.  Yes, true to Robin Schone, the sensual scenes are just that - very sensual and numerous.  They rate a 5.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for sensual rating guidelines).  I can think of only one other book I have rated 5.0 in this matter.  I had read in the reviews of Awaken My Love that it was not as sensual as Schone's other novels.  Well, yes - it may not be as explicit as her other novels, but it is still highly sensual - make no mistake.  It still rates far above the average romance novel in this aspect.<br />Elaine is somewhat too meek in her role as Morrigan.  Sometimes, I wanted to shout \\"Speak up Elaine!\\".  Her inability or lack of willingness to stand up for herself was the only irritating thing about the story.  Occasionally she would demand attention or her way but far too seldom.  But this was not a story full of disagreements or misunderstandings.  It is the story of a relationship, written in a definite spicy manner, but a precious one all the same.  I am sure there is some hidden psychological yearning behind the heroine's age and it feeds well into a fantasy of once again living in a body eighteen years younger yet with the wisdom of a thirty-nine year old woman.  It only adds to the overall charm of the book.  I have read that this is an expensive book once you find it.  It is well worth the effort to find it and only a few dollars more than you expect to pay for a used paperback.  It is a definite keeper.	2003-12-02
US	51730223	R1RK6YQDLA5QWN	0440235626	319402260	The Ruthless Charmer (The Rogues of Regent Street, Book 2)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A charmer yes - but certainly not ruthless	Eagerly, I purchased the three books that make up The Rogues of Regent Street series.  I had absolutely loved both The Devil's Love and Wicked Angel and rated them both five stars when I reviewed them on this site.  But this series has not lived up to my expectations.  The first in this series, The Dangerous Gentleman, was quite good but lacking when compared to her those first two London books I had read.  I easily rated it a solid four stars when I reviewed it.  However, The Ruthless Charmer, barely holds on to a four star rating.  I would rate it a three and one-half if that option was available.<br />Julian Dane is the roguish hero who is tiring of that lifestyle.  The suicide/death of one of his closest friends, Phillip, has left him shaken, even two years later, and he blames himself for his friend's death.  He believes he could have prevented it had he just paid more attention.  We don't really see Julian in full rogue mode.  He has become increasingly interested in a long time friend, Claudia Whitney, and wants to pursue a relationship with her.  However, she doesn't seem the least bit interested.<br />Claudia is a nineteenth century feminist.  She is quite happy with her life as a single woman who spends her time and efforts on helping women.  She is constantly attempting to raise funds for both a woman's shelter and a future girl's school for the less fortunate.  She had been involved with Phillip prior to his death and blames their mutual friend, Julian Dane, for his death.  If only Julian hadn't always encouraged Phillip's rakish ways, he probably would still be living.  There is a lot of history between Claudia and Julian.  She had grown up as a close friends to his many sisters and had a crush on him as a teenager.  Although she is still attracted to him, she would never be foolish enough to hope for his love because she believes him to be too corrupt to ever be faithful.  It seems Claudia is one very judgmental heroine.  And she is one of the more belligerent and hateful ones I have read as well.<br />Julian proves to be a very likable character with much more patience than the average hero.  The leads argue most of the book and don't even seem to like each other all that much.  They each hold affection for the other but neither seems able to comprehend this glaring fact.  Their continued conflicts become old quickly and it becomes tiresome, as we are privy to their insecure thoughts again and again and again.  This is one story that is based largely on The Big Misunderstanding but in this case it should be referred to as The Big Misunderstandings.  This couple has so many of these misunderstandings between them as one determines to show their love to the other only to give up just as the other has determined to show their love in return.  There is so much angst between the two and they both appear a little stupid to not recognize or believe actions or actual words of love from one to the other.<br />Despite these conflicts, I still managed to be entertained and there are certainly some tender moments between the two.  The sensual scenes are infrequent and rate about a 3.75 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  This is a story that is primarily about the romance.  There is a villain but thankfully, he only occupies a little of the story.<br />As I mentioned earlier, this is the second in a series of three.  Although I was aggravated with the leads' interactions, I still recommend this series for some enjoyable reading. I am currently reading the third, The Beautiful Stranger, and it looks like it will be a five star rating.  Julia London is an author I will continue to follow as her new books are released and I look forward to reading the remaining books on her backlist.	2003-11-28
US	51730223	R1QMWLJSSP507V	051512883X	494543365	My Dark Prince	Books	3	18	18	N	N	A dark prince with a whole lot of problems	The dark prince in the book The Dark Prince is certainly that.  Prince Nicholas is Sovereign Prince and Grand Duke of Glarien, a small nation that has gained much notice among the European nations during the Napoleonic wars.  It is a critical pawn because of its strategic location.  Prince Nicholas is to marry the heir to their neighboring country, Alvia, to join forces and present a more powerful presence and thereby prevent takeover by a stronger nation.  The prince has been raised to perform his duty for his country first and foremost - shunning all personal desire.  He realizes he is a symbol, a necessary figurehead of a county that must use him as is necessary for political gain.  Therefore, Prince Nicholas lives a dark life - never expecting to find any real joy or peace in his life.  He has no personal desire to marry the princess of Alvia but that does not matter.  Only the state of Glarien matters.  Tortured by events of his past, his throne threatened by takeover by his cousin, Prince Nicholas has one mission that must be accomplished and that is marrying the princess immediately and creating the needed political union of the two countries.  There is one big problem with his plan, however.  The princess of Alvia has been kidnapped by the prince's cousin to prevent the wedding, which is to take place in England.<br />Prince Nicholas also has an English heritage and an English title.  He is also Earl of Evanlode, a title inherited from his father. When it is discovered that his bride has been secretly abducted, the prince delays his arrival in London and escapes to his English estate, Rascall Hall, to revise his plans and avoid a political catastrophe.  Shortly after arriving at Rascall Hall, he meets Penelope Lindsey (Pennie), who possesses a bold and straightforward manner for a woman.  Not only is she not impressed with his title of prince; she also dares to touch him!  He is royalty and is used to being treated as such but it makes no difference to Pennie.  But Prince Nicholas immediately determines that it is best to avoid reprimanding this outlandish woman and attempt to remain in her good graces.  It seems that Pennie is the illegitimate cousin of the Princess of Alvia and is her exact likeness.  The prince is shocked to discover this treasure at his England estate.  He decides that Pennie must be taught to be &quot;royal&quot; and travel to London with him and impersonate the princess at the royal wedding.  Pennie does not like this idea at all and refuses again and again.  But the prince wins out or so it seems.  Eventually she agrees to the charade and allows him to train her in the mannerisms and customs of nobility and Glarien.  But Pennie really has no desire to lie and risk everything in her life for this cause and repeatedly changes her mind.  Of course, she eventually does assist him but falls in love in the process and in doing so, dooms herself to immense misery.<br />Knowing this extensive premise gives you solid ground when you begin reading The Dark Prince.  Ross writes an unusual romance and it is sometimes work to really get into her novels.  She is a superb author but The Dark Prince disappointed me.  There were a lot of intriguing moments in the book but overall, there was just too much angst.  There were always problems and Pennie's behavior drove me a little crazy.  She was alternately loving Nicholas at one moment and hating him the next.  She was kissing him one moment and then hurling horrible insults at him during the next.  It happened again and again and again.  And she cried and cried and she certainly at times had reason to cry.  But she cried and cried even without reason.  I have never read a heroine that cried this much.  Her on again/off again feelings towards Nicholas grew very tiresome.<br />Then we have Prince Nicholas and, being a typical man, he tells Pennie exactly as it is - he cannot ever have a relationship with her.  He is most emphatic about this and is usually unkind in the process.  But Pennie continues to hold out hope in this impossible situation with absolutely no encouragement from the prince.  As the reader, you are unable to discern if the prince is a basically kind soul or a bloody manipulator.  The enigma surrounding the prince's character is the finest part of this book.  A true mystery enshrouds his genuine nature and he ends up holding more secrets than I expected.  Yes, the hero and heroine eventually become involved and there is a sense of romance budding here and there but it is always, always suffocated by his duty to his country, which must forever be first.  Since the prince is so secretive and closed and Pennie is continually bouncing here and there, the misunderstandings between the two do abound.  But somehow, a relationship of sorts does develop.  There are few sensual scenes and they rate about a 3.25 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />On the whole, I cannot recommend this book as more than an average adventure.  Although Ross's writing could fall into more categories than romance, it is still primarily a story that is structured around the romance.  Therefore, it is most likely to be read by romance fans and will ultimately disappoint many in that realm.  There were many things that mesmerized me during my reading of The Dark Prince.  But there were also too many maddening scenes, essentially played over and over again, that reduced the book's overall appeal.	2003-11-28
US	51730223	R2501KDB2N1PJ4	0380786451	974979200	Sleeping Beauty	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Thoroughly Unique - Throw away all typical romance lines	What a fantastic romance!  Judith Ivory has departed from nearly every romance formula in creating Sleeping Beauty.  First, we have a hero, Sir James Stoker, in pursuit of the heroine AND he respects her AND he accepts her with all her past dalliances AND he is seven years younger than her AND he thinks she is the most beautiful woman AND he is not an alpha type!  He is highly intelligent, humble despite wide popularity as an African explorer/geologist, extremely successful for his age, honest almost to a fault, and perceptive with an ability to care deeply for a woman.  He is not noble although the Queen really likes him.  He has little care for what others think and he is overall one very attractive hero to the reader.<br />Enter Coco Wild, soon to be 37, a woman with a very questionable past - a past that she is not ashamed of.  She has become a very wealthy woman and has no need for a protector.  Fretting about her age, she first encounters James in a dentist office where she is scheduled to have a tooth pulled.  She hides behind a beautiful smile that rarely leaves her face.  James wants to know her better - she refuses.  James is too young for her and she would be very bad for his golden reputation.  Plus, she has no desire for a broken heart and she highly suspects that is the condition she would find herself in once James lost interest in her.  But they seem &quot;meant to be together&quot; as they encounter one another again and again.  Most of the story occurs at Cambridge where James has many responsibilities, which include studying the many notes and artifacts from his disastrous, yet, eventually successful African exploration.<br />James is highly alluring and very likable as this most unusual hero.  He's not a rake and doesn't have the typical aversion to love.  Coco seems to constantly run from James although he becomes dearer to her with each meeting.  Their interaction is very refreshing and their communication is honest.  We get to see a precious friendship develop between the two although their relationship eventually becomes quite sensual as well.  Those sensual scenes rate about a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />I highly recommend Sleeping Beauty.  I have read four of Ivory's books and each have been the equivalent of a four or five star rating.  Her writing captivates you and you must continue reading because you probably will not be able to guess what comes next.  My interest never lagged once and I have decided Sleeping Beauty definitely belongs on my keeper shelf.  I wish Ivory had a larger backlist because I am making my way through it rather rapidly.  However, I have discovered that she also writes as Judy Cuevas and I plan to explore some of those books as well.	2003-11-27
US	51730223	RXIIJS8H7UHBU	0671660802	107673923	A Lady of the West	Books	5	56	60	N	N	Fascinating romance despite hero's despicable behavior	Linda Howard is one of my favorite authors.  I have read nearly all of her books and have had A Lady of the West in my &quot;to be read&quot; stack for over a year now.  I had not chosen to read it because of its three and one-half star overall rating.  I wisely use the tools offered on this site and seldom read a book rated less than four stars.  But I wanted to read another Howard book and picked up A Lady of the West.  I was able to determine three things rather quickly:<BR>First: This was unlike any of Howard's other books I had read.<BR>Second: The hero's behavior is politically incorrect - to say the least.  He is the first hero I have ever read who hit the heroine and he also plays the &quot;forced seduction&quot; game which many of us would consider rape.<BR>Third: I quickly realized the overall rating on this book must be due to the hero's mean-spirited behavior rather than the quality of the writing.  Sure enough, when I checked the reviews, most of the negative reviews are because of the second item detailed previously.  Make no mistake - this is a dark book.<br />Victoria Waverly is the daughter of a formerly wealthy, Southern family who has been impoverished by the Civil War.  Victoria is basically sold into marriage to a wealthy rancher, Frank McClain, and is bravely attempting to do the right thing for her family.  Once she meets her future husband, she is repelled and frightened.  He is one bad villain and Victoria has no idea that he killed and literally stole the large ranch he now calls his own.  But Victoria is ever vigilant - intent on protecting her family from literal starvation - especially the two family members who have come with her to live at the ranch.  She must consider her cousin and her younger sister's situations as well.  She believes that they will be safe and taken care of at the ranch.  She is a strong yet gentle heroine written in true Linda Howard fashion.  She is surprised to find that she is strongly attracted to one of her husband's main men, Jake Roper, and finds his actions towards her frightening yet very sensual.<br />Jake Roper is a hired gun and one of the best.  Twenty years ago, his mother and father were murdered; the two sons wounded and assumed dead, in a takeover of the large Sarratt ranch.  He finds himself almost obsessed with his boss's new wife and finds it most inconvenient.  You see - Jake is planning revenge on Frank McClain.  He hates the man and will avenge his parents' death at the hands of this worthless thief and reclaim his family's home.<BR>  <BR>Actually, I found Lady of the West to be out of the ordinary with a fragile tenderness and strong sensual overtones.  There was not a boring page and the book contains several strong and very interesting secondary characters.  While considering the reviews, I read repeatedly that this book is a product of its time - written either in the 1980s or 1990 at the latest.  It is a book that holds a common thread with many books written during that timeframe - mistreatment of women.  Now, I was personally appalled when the hero struck the heroine.  I had never read that before - at least not the heroine.  But I also read it as part of the overall story.  Yes, it was very wrong for Jake to treat Victoria in such a manner.  But he was never glorified for it.  He certainly was not proud of himself.  I know situations such as this occurred much more often than we want to admit.  This story takes place over a hundred years ago - women weren't always treated with a lot of respect.  But I am certainly not defending the hero.  He was definitely a tarnished hero - he never gets rid of that stain.  And THAT is part of the story.  This is a story that contains revenge, hate, and mistreatment by many more than the hero.  Taken with the context of the story, a mean hero only plays out his part.  I don't think that Jake is ever redeemed of this behavior.  That is one thing that makes this an unusual romance - it's HEA ending has a few spurs - and the ending is probably closer to reality and therefore, the sting.<br />However, buried in the midst of this mistreatment is one good story.  As expected in a Linda Howard book, the sensual scenes are strong and rate 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  Somehow she pulls out a story that actually has three separate physical relationships developing without the book appearing as too sensual.  Try to read this book within the context and I believe you will enjoy it.  But remember - it is one tough story.	2003-11-24
US	51730223	RGHQ7FVZOGW7U	1551665212	932606339	Wanting You	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Favorite Ryan book to date and it's HOT!	Nan Ryan can write one mean romance story and I mean that both as a compliment as well as a literal description of many of her books.  I have only read four Ryan books to date but believe she majors in dominant, cruel heroes and shy, quiet yet eventually vindictive heroines.  Her books, despite this familiar line can be rather diversified in the story line.  In Wanting You, I discovered an intriguing and spicy western romance that I didn't want to put down.  The hero only simmers at the rude level and the heroine doesn't go too far in imagining her revenge.<br />The Regents are a wealthy family who own a million acre Texas ranch.  They have suffered from the loss of many of the family members and only the matriarch, LaDextra, and her step-grandson, Bret remain.  Bret skillfully manages the huge ranching empire and possesses many qualities we desire in a romance hero - he is physically fit, popular, unbelievably handsome, desirable, and alpha extreme.  He is good at what he does and loves the life of a rancher.  That is - until life at the Regent ranch is disrupted by the return of LaDextra's granddaughter, Anna, who was believed to have been killed by the Apache when she was a small child.  LaDextra is overjoyed at the return of her long lost granddaughter and immediately accepts her into the family.  Bret however, is not so accepting.  He rather suspects that Anna is an imposter looking for a large inheritance and he intends to expose her.<br />Anna is a likable heroine and although we really don't know if she is an imposter for the majority of the book, we still believe in her.  After many horrible, tortured years with the Apache, she had spent her last five years in a convent.  A priest at the convent believes she is the lost Regent heir and enables her reintroduction to the family.  Anna has little memory before her life with the Apache.  Now Anna lives at the Regent ranch, accepted as a family member, and is totally satisfied with her new life.  She is happierthan she ever thought possible.  Until, much to her dismay, she finds herself extremely attracted to Brit.  For some reason, he seems too interested in her while all his attentions towards her seem laced with sarcasm and derision.  Brit resents Anna's presence mostly because he fears the grief his grandmother will inevitably suffer once Anna's pretence is uncovered.  <br />And of course, in the background of it all, Anna and Brit's attraction to one another only grows stronger.  Anna fights it with all her might because she wants nothing to upset her new life and she senses Brit would prefer her gone from Regent ranch.  Brit, on the other hand, is becoming almost obsessed with the thought of having Anna.  He is thinking that same old stupid hero line (will these heroes ever learn?) that if he can only have her once then he will have her out of his system.  Secondary characters occasionally add a touch of humor and the repartee between the leads is quite entertaining at times.  However, the overall tone of the book remains serious throughout.  Things get quite hot and heavy between Brit and Anna and these sensual scenes rate a high 4.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  Nan Ryan knows well how to write these moments and infuses true emotion in Wanting You - providing sincere romance rather than just sensual scenes.<br />I highly recommend Wanting You.  It is a fun read despite its serious overtones.  Anna's acceptance into the family is heartwarming and the entire story is well rounded.  This is a romance - that is the main emphasis - and that is the way I like it best.  It is currently out of publication but is easily available online through sites such as this.  I am still eagerly reading through Ryan's backlist.  Of her four books I have read, I have given two five star ratings and two are essentially three star ratings.  I think there is a lot of undiscovered great reading yet to come from her backlist.	2003-11-24
US	51730223	R155BYCV6UGUF7	0553585908	329605277	The Saint (Seducer)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A singing heroine and a kinda saintly hero	The Saint is the second of Madeline Hunter's new series set in the Regency era.  I am a great fan of Hunter and absolutely loved her two medieval series.  She is one of the authors that I will read anything she writes.  Although I enjoyed The Saint, it just wasn't as good as the great books contained in those two earlier series.  Those series had books with very involved stories, deep characters and realistic plots.  Both The Seducer (the first of this new series - I have written a review on this book as well) and The Saint don't fall into this absolutely excellent category Hunter has created for herself.  The Seducer and The Saint seem formula driven - similar in many ways to the current series written by Nicole Jordan or Cheryl Holt.  Although not quite as sensual as those books, Hunter's new series still follow those similar plot lines, which seem to be popular in romance reading today.  These plot lines involve men in some sort of spy work or searching out some very dangerous mystery.  The books are driven by the mystery portion of the book as much as the romance.  So, that said, I found The Saint somewhat dry reading with average formula writing.<br />Also, I should state that I strongly believe positive or negative reviews are often a matter of taste.  I have no doubt many readers will give The Saint a five star rating.  I, however, want more depth to the characters and more romance than mystery when reading a romance novel.  Therefore, take my criticism as a statement of my taste as well as a general review of the book.  <br />Virgil Duclairc, Viscount Laclere, is a morally upright man who has tracked his errant American ward, Bianca Kenwood, to a questionable establishment where she entertains with her singing.  Bianca has come to England to claim her inheritance and continue her operatic training with intentions to eventually perform onstage.  She never planned on having her unknown guardian locate her or even be that interested in her life.  But she soon discovers that Virgil does care about her behavior and is appalled at her ambitions.  Much to her distress he physically removes her and her maid to his home and the companionship of his two sisters. <br />Virgil has plans of his own for Bianca.  He is well aware of her inheritance and it's value.  His own family needs cash since his father was hardly frugal with the family's finances.  Virgil wants Bianca to marry his younger brother, Dante, who is known as quite the rake.  Dante, although not too excited about marriage, agrees to court Bianca and he is confident she will accept his proposal.  In the meantime, Virgil has his own heiress he is planning to marry.  But then Bianca shows herself and Virgil's well-laid plans soon lay in the dust as she fights his authority over her every step of the way and completely rejects Dante's overtures.  Bianca is determined to have her operatic career.  She realizes she will not marry because of her chosen, disreputable career.  But she comes alive when she sings and is truly most talented.  <br />Bianca is determined to escape the machinations of Virgil and finds him a very stubborn adversary.  She decides to behave so outrageously that this saint of a guardian will want her out of his home and his family's life.  The action is fast as Bianca turns one-way and then another to outsmart Virgil and gain her freedom.  It is during this portion of the book that I became rather disenchanted with the heroine's character.  I can understand her desire for the freedom to allow her to follow a life long dream of becoming an opera star.  However, in her pursuit she often comes off as mean and hard-hearted.  Virgil gradually becomes less powerful as Bianca gains the upper hand.  This is where my taste in books plays a role in the rating of this review.  Virgil is not as strong a hero as Hunter usually creates.  I don't want to see the hero emasculated in any way.  Yes - I think it is grand when a hero gets a proper comeuppance.  But I don'twant the hero lead on by the heroine for endless pages, as it seemed to happen here.  And since Bianca is an immature heroine, it only makes her victories over Virgil that much more distressing.  There are a few sensual scenes that rate about a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  On the plus side, the leads do know how to communicate openly and we do not have to endure one misunderstanding after another.  Also, Bianca's love of singing is quite original.<br />Now despite my concerns about the heroine, I still enjoyed this book.  I do not give a four star rating unless the book contains a lot more fun than irritation.  There are many of you who will savor the heroine's character and that will make this book even more enjoyable for you.  I plan to continue to relish this series as it is published.  The publisher has an aggressive schedule for release of the books in this series.  The Seducer was released in October 2003 and The Saint followed closely with a release in November 2003.  The third in this series, The Charmer, is scheduled for release 12/03/03 followed by the fourth book, The Sinner, which is scheduled before year-end of 2003.  What a wonderful thing to do for us as readers.  So often books in series are released so far apart that I have to review the previous book(s) to fully appreciate the next release.  Hunter remains on my &quot;must read&quot; author list and I eagerly await the release of The Charmer.	2003-11-20
US	51730223	RJ6UG92ESMR7F	0380775727	695857258	After Innocence	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Tender Love - Brenda Joyce style	Recently, I discovered Brenda Joyce and her many wonderful romance novels.  I have enjoyed all of the books I have read to date and I must say that she is not a writer that writes similar themes in her books.  Reading my first four Joyce books, I realize that they each differ greatly - more than any other author I have read.  Each has an entirely dissimilar premise.  She does not need to borrow from one success formula in one of her books and use it to write another.  I chose After Innocence as my fourth Joyce book because it was so highly recommended when I asked about her books on AAR's website.<br />Edward Delanza is a man known for his diamonds.  In the late 1800s of New York City, Edward is a man who loves women and women love him.  He is a little flashy and selfish but it's okay because he is a man of principal and honor beneath it all.  At a country home weekend party, Edward first spots Sofie as she watches him - uhh - how should I say this - as he is spending some time with a female acquaintance.  This certainly makes for an explosive beginning and causes Edward to be very curious about the beautiful face he saw watching him and his female friend through the forest greenery.<br />Sofie O'Niel is an extremely talented artist who is attending a weekend party given by her socialite mother.  She has no interest in the party but her mother is determined that Sofie will be seen more in society.  Her mother realizes Sofie is lame and will never attract the right type of man for marriage and she believes this so deeply that Sofie believes it herself.  Sofie is resigned to a life alone but she loves her art and happens to be talented enough to actually make a living selling it.  She also has a large trust fund left to her by her deceased father and realizes money will never be a problem for her although she deeply wishes to be independent of her mother.  Sofie does not see herself as the beautiful woman she is both inside and out.  It takes little to make her happyand she wants mostly solitude.  When she first spots an extremely handsome and obviously virile man in the forest with his apparent paramour, she is fascinated with him.  She knows she can never attract the attention of such a gentleman but the experience has certainly given her fuel for many dreams in the future.<br />Edward does seek Sofie out.  He doesn't realize that she is lame and Sofie is sure that as soon as he discovers her uneven walking that all of this interest will vanish.  However, it does not.  Edward perceives the twisted hold Sofie's mother has over her and decides he will become her friend and make her see herself as the truly beautiful person she is with only a very minor disability.  He likes the sense of purpose it gives him and wants to throw himself into an unselfish project.  He has tired of his self-centered life and relishes the thought of helping another.  However, to do so, he must disregard his strong attraction for Sofie.<br />Edward and Sofie establish a friendship of sorts and he arranges her first sale of her art to a well-known gallery.  Edward is very impressed with Sofie's art and finds that he is a subject she paints again and again.  As their friendship deepens, Edward realizes that Sofie has more than friendship in mind.  He sees her as beautiful and she blossoms under his kind regard.  Although she is falling in love with him, Sofie recognizes that Edward is not the type to settle down - especially with someone like her.  Their relationship soon develops beyond that which Edward had so carefully deliberated in his philanthropic plans for Sofie.  It brings them to a crossroads that the two see in a totally opposite manner and Sofie runs and Edward is left confused and lonely and more than a little angry.<br />The interaction between Edward and Sofie is priceless.  Although a few minor misunderstandings come and go, primarily their relationship is one of truth and respect.  Sofie reacts in a flighty immature manner more than once.  In the process she loses some of the respect Edward had for her.  She, in a misguided loving manner, actually hurts Edward tremendously again and again.  But when they are together, the pages sizzle and the pace never slows.  The sensual scenes rate about a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />After Innocence is the sequel to Secrets.  It is very loosely tied to the Bragg series (his brother married a Bragg in Secrets).  But this is a stand-alone book and Secrets does not have to be read first.  I highly recommend After Innocence for it's unusual and tender romance line and totally captivating story.  Now - to find my next Brenda Joyce book!  She certainly has a great backlist to choose from	2003-11-14
US	51730223	R1AGN87PJZ9VZK	0804119740	719225280	Lady of Desire	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Great addition to the Knight series-not as good as the rest	Gaelen Foley is one author that is in my \\"must read\\" category.  I will read whatever she writes.  Not only is she one of my favorite authors, but also she  consistently delivers great books with fun, substantial plots, sexy heroes, and some of the most likeable heroines I have ever read.  I expected a lot of Lady of Desire.  I, as had many others, had eagerly awaited her next book in the Knight series.  Although there was a lot of the expected Foley charm in Lady of Desire, it did not quite live up to most of her other books.  Possibly I had a problem with actually reading a grown-up Jacinda.  More probable though is that Jacinda appeared as a spoiled and immature heroine with more antics than common sense by far.<br />Lady Jacinda Knight has run away from home after her oldest brother, Robert from The Duke, has arranged a marriage for her.  Robert realizes his sister is too mischievous for her own good and actually thinks he acting in her best interests.  But Jacinda is not one to have her life planned by her brother or controlled by a husband she doesn't love.  So lovely Jacinda runs from home and runs into a gang fight in one of London's less reputable neighborhoods.  Dressed as a boy, Billy Blade rescues her and realizes she is not a he.  He is quite taken with her, plans to become much closer to her, and then realizes something is not quite right.  Not only is this boy actually a young lady, but Billy suddenly realizes she is probably a Lady as well.  Soon he has figured out that she is the sister of Lucien Knight, a man he respects and works with occasionally as an informant.  He contacts Lucien and delivers Jacinda safely home, much to her dismay.  But at least she has taken care of her unwanted future husband.  She settles back into her routine - ever acting outrageously spoiled and willful.<br />Billy Blade is actually much more than the street king he appears to be.  His father is a marquis and Billy wants nothing to do with him.  But Billy gets caught inthe middle of a robbery and he finds himself and his gang facing the hangman's noose.  Soon, his long lost father and marquis comes to the rescue, reluctantly, forcing Billy to live the life that was he was born to in exchange for his beloved gang's lives.<br />Billy is soon out and about as a member of the ton but he has not been raised to know all the little polite ways of this society.  Furthermore, he can hardly believe the dishonesty he sees throughout the highly hypocritical upper crust of London.  He embarrasses himself more than once and is even excluded because of his uncouth manner.  Now it is a little difficult at this point to see how Foley will produce her signature cool hero out of this situation.  But never fear, Foley is capable of such maneuvering.  Soon, Jacinda believes she must teach Billy how to become a proper society gentleman.  They develop a friendship that allows adequate time for romance to bloom.<br />The new Billy Blade, now the Earl of Rackford, evolves into quite a sexy hero by the midpoint of Lady of Desire.  It is his character that carries the book.  There are many dark secrets from Billy's past that make his escape to the streets as a youth quite believable.  His evolvement into the Earl of Rackford is very entertaining.  Jacinda sees herself as his savior and reluctantly sees him in a romantic light.  Their romance developed a little too slowly in my opinion.  However, once Jacinda agrees with Billy about the status of their relationship, they are definitely burning up the pages.  The sensual scenes are infrequent as far as Foley books go but rate 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  She navigates her leads through their stories without the usual misunderstandings and her writing is an absolute delight.<BR>   <BR>This is the fourth in the Knight series.  The series includes, in order, The Duke, Lord of Fire, Lord of Ice, and Lady of Desire.  My favorite of the series was The Duke but all had their great moments.  I did not read these books in order but I believe I would have enjoyed them more had I read them in series order.  However, they function very well as stand alone books.  I have loved the characters from each book so much, that I have enjoyed reading about each set of leads continued lives as the series progresses.  I have even reread Lord of Fire so I could see it more within the Knight family setting.  Reading books a second time is unusual for me but this entire series definitely sits on my keeper shelf.  There are still at least two more brothers (maybe three) that Foley intends to include in this series .  Her next book in the Knight series is however about Jacinda's best friend, Lizzie. Foley's website currently estimates the release of Lizzie's book, Devil Takes a Bride, in May, 2004.  I will anxiously purchase it immediately because this is one fantastic series.	2003-11-14
US	51730223	R3RGMSAZ48YE5E	0380765365	688540209	Scandalous Love (The Bragg Saga)	Books	4	21	24	N	N	Scandalous entertainment &amp; one long, enjoyable journey	Scandalous Love is a highly intriguing book that provides a long enjoyable journey.  There is constant action and not a boring page.  It is a complicated love story without villains lurking in the background.  As the title intimates, it is great scandalous writing.<br />Lady Nicole Bragg Shelton is 23, unmarried, and the daughter of wealthy, loving parents.  She happily lives at her parents' country estate where she can indulge in her favorite past time - horses.  She hates the social swirl of London and avoids it if at all possible.  She has reason to stay away from London because she is not exactly accepted by the ton - she has a scandal in her background that has tainted her image.  She dislikes London and they dislike her.<BR> <BR>Hadrian Braxton-Lowell, the Duke of Clayborough, is a duty bound man who is highly respected.  He is betrothed to Elizabeth Martindale, a fragile and gentle lady twelve years his junior.  Their marriage was arranged when both were quite young.  Since the duke believes he will never love a woman, he does not question such an arrangement and considers it his responsibility.  The book frequently refers to Hadrian's impeccable reputation and his choice to always do what is right.  However, there is one area of his life that is questionable for such a respectable man.  Throughout his long betrothal he has had many mistresses.  Since he is a very sensuous man, this impacts his life greatly but it is seen, in this book, as just a trivial, common, and accepted fact of life.<br />Hadrian and Nicole first meet at a country masquerade ball to which Nicole was surprisingly invited.  She attended only to irritate the hostess and dresses outrageously as a gypsy.  Hadrian immediately notices Nicole upon his arrival and makes a favorable comment about her costume, therefore earning her favor with others at the ball.  Hadrian hates the social scene and rarely attends such events.  He is strongly drawn to Nicole, assumes she is a unsatisfied married lady, and imagines she would eagerly accept his invitation for an affair.  He invites her to his country home and  Nicole, in her immaturity and inexperience, believes Hadrian is interested in courting her.  As is typical of her character, she shuns all propriety and visits him the very next day.  Nicole is startled when Hadrian makes some very inappropriate moves towards her but she believes that the duke remains truly interested in her.  When she shows up at his home a second time, Hadrian rudely turns her away.  He has discovered that she in an unmarried lady - an innocent who apparently behaves outrageously, and he is furious.  Soon Nicole is informed of Hadrian's imminent marriage and she is equally furious.  And so the story continues as Nicole and Hadrian each discover startling things about the other and battle frequently.  One thing is for certain - no matter how attracted Hadrian may be to Nicole - a relationship with her is totally out of the question.  Nothing will cause him to end his betrothal to Elizabeth.  He heads to London to escape Nicole and she follows him.  As much as I did not want to believe it, Nicole actually chases after Hadrian.  He is the real reason she is there.  He is the real reason she finally reappears in society.  I actually wanted for Nicole to have a little more respect for herself.<br />This book, although it contains many of the typical romance scenarios, is actually original in several ways.  First - Elizabeth is very lovable.  Second -  the relationship between Hadrian and his mother is a story unto itself and precious as well.  The situations that the leads find themselves in swing from one extreme to another.  You don't really know what to expect next.  I thoroughly liked Hadrian's character although he could be quite hateful and forceful.  But I found Nicole's character to be very annoying and immature.  She continually runs after Hadrian but constantly battles him.  Hateful heroines are hard for me to accept generally.  Nicole takes every opportunity to be alone with Hadrian although he does nothing to encourage it.  And once alone, she is very hateful to him.  Even when he attempts kindness towards her, she ends up saying something awful to him.  Yes, sometimes he deserved it but mostly it was just immaturity on Nicole's part.  Her character is the reason I rated this book four stars.  Had the heroine had a little more sense, maturity, and ability to control her speech, this easily would have been a five star rating.  So if you enjoy such heroines, you will certainly find this a top-notch book.<br />Regardless, I still found this to be a delicious read.  Although I have an issue with the exasperating heroine, this is a book for my keeper shelf.  The interaction between Hadrian and Nicole is highly entertaining.  The sensual rating is a strong 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  Brenda Joyce writes her heroes highly alpha and does it well.  She does not let misunderstandings pile up.  The interaction, while sometimes irritating, is still upfront and truthful for the most part.  This book is part of the Bragg series.  However, since the Bragg series is so large, it is hard to determine the order.  My best guess of this order is as follows: Innocent Fire, Firestorm, Violet Fire, Dark Fires, Scandalous Love, and then Secrets.  There seem to be a couple more featured on Joyce's website but I cannot find where they fit.  Nevertheless, I have read several books in this series totally out of order and believe each can be read as a stand-alone book.  I truly love Brenda Joyce's writing style and fortunately I have read only four of her books.  I have many, many more to savor.	2003-11-13
US	51730223	R2QE1UTNMG2GLU	0373970382	658604180	Desert Storm	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Too much "I hate you but must have you!"	Desert Sun was my second Nan Ryan book.  I had read Sun God and gave it a high review.  I was disappointed with Desert Sun in comparison.  Sun God seemed to have a strong love underlying it all.  However, Desert Sun seemed to be about anger and money and revenge and just too much of it all.<br />Angie Webster is a young lady who has been raised by an extremely religious father.  She has never been allowed normal friends and normal  events of one growing up other than church.  Angie and her father have lived alone and she has been taught to be highly moral and knows nothing of the world other than that which her father has told her.  Fearing Angie may turn out like her mother, Mr. Webster arranges a marriage to an old army friend, Barren McClain, who is his own age.  Barren McClain is the owner of a vast ranch in Texas and believes himself to be a righteous man.  However, he is a very sick man and hides his many vile and revolting ways well.  On their way to the McClain ranch, Mr. Webster dies, leaving Angie alone to arrive at her future husband's home.  She is shocked to see he is an older man but Barren tells her that he will give her six months to become acquainted with him.  He further informs her that when they marry it will be in name only because he looks upon her as a daughter.  Of course we know he is lying big time.  Angie, desperate to find a comfortable place in life, reluctantly agrees to marriage and comforts herself with the knowledge that she will be protected by the McClain name and will not be required to be more than a friendly, daughter-like companion to this older man.  But Angie has a much larger problem on her hands than Barren McClain and that is his son, Pecos.  She is extremely attracted to him but finds him abrasive as well as dangerously desirable.<br />Pecos McClain is the sole heir to the immense McClain ranch.  He is greatly experienced with the ladies and has recently met one who thoroughly captivated him with her beauty.  However, shespurned him and he comforted himself with the thought that she was, after all, a prostitute.  Yes - a prostitute he planned to eventually have but still - nothing more.  Imagine his surprise when he meets his father's future bride who looks exactly like this lady of the night.  He immediately deduces that Angie is actually a lady out for his father's money and land.  He believes she is the prostitute he has recently met and believes none of her stories of her background.  Oh, he is still greatly attracted to her but now has no respect for her as she is apparently lying and scheming to get his father's money.<br />There are several overused plot lines in Desert Storm that greatly distracts from the story.  First is The Big Misunderstanding - and I mean this is a really big misunderstanding that lasts nearly the entire book.  Then there are the many other misunderstandings that come and go and are mostly never resolved.  The second overused plot line that I dislike as much as The Big Misunderstanding is the \\"I hate you but must have you and now I really do have to have you but I hate you!\\"  I have never read a book with more sexual situations between people that supposedly hated each other but could not refrain from having each other physically.  I lost respect for Angie's character each time she yet again wildly responded to Pecos physical advances when, each time, he would cruelly reject her afterwards.  Then there are the many grave insults that Pecos constantly threw in Angie's face.  He was really mean to her and although she grew revengeful, she never seemed able to say \\"no\\" to him.  Angie never grew beyond my perception of her as a ninny.<br />Desert Storm had great potential for a remarkably intense book.  It is actually, with the overused plot lines I have mentioned, still an okay read.  But there is always too much anger, raging lust, and \\"who has the money\\" for it to be close to a comforting read.  The sensual scenes are definitely there and rate a solid 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  If you like ravishing, angry, sexual stories, this one is definitely that.  And although I prefer a strong, willful, and probably alpha hero, I want him to be nice at least part of the time.  I will however continue to ready Nan Ryan books.  I now understand that she tends to write dark books with revengeful heroes and sometimes those suit me just fine.	2003-10-23
US	51730223	R2K6COKWGYSLB6	038077139X	830680366	Secrets (The Bragg Saga)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Sullen hero & bright-eyed heroine	Two weeks ago, I read my first Brenda Joyce book, The Conqueror.  Although it is a politically incorrect book for today, I still thought The Conqueror was a fantastic story.  I eagerly acquired a few more Joyce books and Secrets was my next choice.  It, sadly, did not reach the standard of The Conqueror in many ways.  However, the primary problem with Secrets is the moody hero, Slade Delanza, who seemed to be in a bad mood for nearly the entire book.<br />Slade Delanza is the second son of a California rancher who owns a vast ranch that stretches from the ocean into the mountains.  The ranch is Slade's first love although you find that hardly conceivable.  Ten years previously, at the age of fifteen, he had left the ranch in a rage at his father, Rick Delanza.  He had moved to San Francisco and started working for a very successful man who now treated him like a son.  Slade had spent most of the past ten years in San Francisco and rarely came home.  But he still cared deeply for his two brothers, James, the oldest, and Edward, the youngest.  Now James, his father's favorite son and heir is dead.  Slade is home for the funeral but the arguments between Rick and his son, Slade, still rage.  Slade is now the heir to the magnificent ranch and Rick wants him home.  Slade, always angry with his father, fights him every step of the way.  When Rick forces upon him the situation of marrying an heiress to save their ranch, Slade is more bitter than ever before.  It seems his dead brother was to wed an heiress with enough money to save the ranch from its debtors.  Rick now wants Slade to marry his dead brother's fianc to gain the inheritance and save the ranch.  Slade despises the idea and does not want to take James's fianc as his wife - even if he is dead.  For some reason, it strikes him as dishonorable.<br />Regina Bragg Stratton is the daughter of an English earl and is in the States visiting her large family.  (Apparently this is one of a large series called the Bragg series.)  Regina is traveling, by train, to visit her aunt and uncle in San Francisco when the train is robbed and she jumps from the train to save herself.  When she regains consciousness after her tumble from the train, she is staring into the face of the most handsome man she has ever met and has no memory.  The man is Slade Delanza and he thinks Regina is Elizabeth Sinclair, his dead brother's fiance.  Having no memory, Regina hesitantly accepts the Delanza family's invitation to come to their ranch and take the time to recover.  She soon discovers the reasons she is really there and tries to accept that she is this Elizabeth Sinclair.  All she knows is that, whoever she is, she deeply cares for Slade.  And in his own moody, unsociable, and resentful ways, Slade seems to care for her.<br />Several overused plot lines in Secrets are among my least favorite.  I really dislike the \\"amnesia\\" line and even more the \\"marriage of convenience\\" line.  On top of that you have such an angry hero that takes every chance to misunderstand any little thing concerning Regina (Elizabeth).  I tired of his extreme moodiness and reluctant company by the midpoint of the book.  At that time, I thought the book could rate no higher than three stars.  I let myself skip ahead about 70 pages (something I rarely do) to determine if there was any hope and gratefully I did see a large necessary shift in the story.  So I turned those 70 pages back, continued reading, and found that I loved the rest of the book.  This latter portion was five star reading.  Since Slade is still very moody, I wondered why the heroine was even attracted to him at times.  Slade still uses every excuse he can find to distance himself from Regina or misunderstand her.  But Regina is different.  She has gotten some backbone after he secretly left her at the ranch the day after their wedding.  When she next encounters him, she demands something from Slade that has him almost speechless and as the reader you are thinking \\"Way to go Regina!\\"  Their relationship takes a whole new turn and we begin to understand some of the reasons for Slade's moroseness.  Away from his father, Slade actually has the ability to smile and laugh.<br />Although the first half of the book drags, I still recommend Secrets for some good reading.  I did relish nearly every page of the last half and felt it well worth my initial impatience.  Regina is a very likable heroine and finds herself making stands that even surprise herself.  Of course, the very influential and immensely rich Bragg family eventually gets into the action and cause more than one problem.  Through it all there are highs and lows.  Joyce certainly knows how to keep a lively pace (once it got going) and the secondary characters add to the overall interest of the story rather than detract from it.  There are some great sensual scenes that rate a solid 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  Slade is the character that matures in this story.  He has much angst to work through but it is not nearly as pitiful as we see in many romance stories.  He actually has a lot to be thankful for and that only makes him appear more angry and immature.  But Regina seems to have commitment and determination on her side and she eventually has a great influence on Slade's pessimistic outlook on life.  I have already chosen my next Brenda Joyce novel for reading.  I still expect some great reads from her huge backlist.	2003-10-23
US	51730223	R1855SH3UM4F9H	0743453069	169509622	Charming the Highlander (Highlander Trilogy)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Charming time travel with a pleasant twist	Charming the Highlander is a sweet story with a group of nice, mature characters.  Even the alpha males, which abound in this story, are basically great guys with good hearts that aren't too hard headed.  I am not a time travel fan but had no problem with that aspect since this group of Scottish males of four MacKeages and one MacBain had been transported through time from the twelfth century four years prior to the beginning of the story.  They have mostly adjusted to today's world and have constructed and own a ski resort in upper Maine that will open within the year.  The wizard who is responsible for their time travel has closely watched over the MacKeage Scottish warriors.  They know the wizard as a present day priest who teaches them the ways of the twenty-first century and assists them in obtaining a financial fortune to allow a profitable living.  This priest/wizard is an entertaining part of the story.  Not all of his magic tricks or concoctions work out as he plans.  There were some pages that were filled with highly entertaining bits of his antics.<br />Greylen MacKeage is the laird of the MacKeage clan and stays in charge in present day.  Some things cannot change and the other warriors expect Greylen's leadership.  It is only natural.  In the opening pages of the book, Greylen is attempting a return trip to his Maine home and is dreading the trip in a small aircraft with a cocky, careless pilot.  Joining him on this flight is a beautiful woman, Grace Sutter, who captures Greylen's attention immediately.  Grace has a newborn baby with her and Greylen assumes that it is her baby - who would not?  Grace is letting all assume she is the mother of this precious baby who has the name of Baby.  Baby is actually the son of Grace's sister, Mary, who was recently died.  Her sister's final request of Grace is to take her baby to their small Maine hometown and give him to Baby's father.  The father, Michael MacBain, has no knowledge of Baby since Mary had left himand gone to Grace's home when Michael told her he was actually from the twelfth century.  Mary doubted his sanity but had finally decided to return to him when she was injured in the accident that claimed her life.  Grace is now following her sister's wishes and taking Baby to his father but Grace has strong reservations about actually letting Michael MacBain know of his son.  She knows of this time travel fantasy and does not want to leave Baby with an unstable man.<br />The plane crashes and Grace and Baby must rely on Greylen to get them off the snowy mountain and back to civilization.  He is a very kind and considerate man although a little odd with some odd perceptions of women's role in society.  His strength during and after the crash as well as his ability to withstand very harsh weather and terrain greatly impresses Grace.  She soon learns to trust Greylen and before reaching their destination, both know there is a mutual attraction that will be difficult to deny.<br />This is an absorbing book that has some very humorous moments.  Grace, a brilliant scientist, is a very charming woman who has given herself to her career with little time for anything else.  But now she is finding the prospect of all these new close relationships plus returning to her hometown after so many years quite attractive.  Could she move out of the big city and remain in this beautiful state of Maine?  She is considering this especially as she learns more about Baby's father and he admits to his time travel story when Grace questions him.  Maine would be a good place for Grace to raise Baby.  Michael need never know the child is his but Grace has made a promise to her dead sister to give the child to his father.  Grace goes back and forth on this issue so much that her thoughts get sometimes tiring.  Greylen is ready to accept Grace and Baby as his own.  Imagine his shock when he discovers that it is not possible for Grace to be a mother.<br />The leads relationship is very touchingand fun.   There are many secondary characters, some which add a great deal to the story.  Of course, there is the villain aspect that runs in the background and the author chooses to deal with them in the most unusual manner!  There is a lot of great chemistry between the leads and Greylen's need to dominate Grace's life, since he has claimed her for his own, is humorously touching and not the least overbearing.  There are a few sensual scenes that rate about a 3.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  <br />Overall, I highly recommend Charming the Highlander.  It is pleasurable reading with a few unusual twists.  Immediately, you are drawn into the story and since you don't have to read through the usual adjustment exercises of most time travel arrivals, it is really easy to just sit back and enjoy a great story.  Charming the Highlander is the first in a series followed by Loving the Highlander, and Wedding the Highlander.  I see that a fourth Chapman book is scheduled for release sometime in the near future, The Seductive Imposter.  I do not know if it is the fourth in this series.  There are clearly four - not three - strong characters and therefore a likelihood for a fourth book.	2003-10-20
US	51730223	R1MXKZPUIVTVM8	0380761319	790779890	The Shadow and the Star	Books	5	44	46	N	Y	Another powerful &amp; most definitely atypical romance	Wow!  Laura Kinsale is an excellent writer of multifaceted romances.  This novel could pass for general fiction but it is definitely a romantic story.  Her stories contain such substance with strong secondary characters, an excellent suspense/mystery sideline, and a most unusual romance.  Kinsale is not my favorite romance author but she is distinctly compelling and intense in her writing style.  She does not write &quot;quick reads&quot;.  Her stories require a reader's dedication and effort to fully enjoy her complex stories.<br />Samuel is the handsome, golden haired hero trained in the martial arts and raised in Hawaii by a loving couple, the Ashlands, alongside their two younger children.  Samuel is more than your normal, wonderful romance hero.  He is even more self-assured and captivating even though he embraces chastity.  His quiet forceful manner hides the secrets and shame of a particularly abusive childhood from which the Ashlands had rescued him.<br />Leda is a properly raised English woman on the fringes of London society.  Although she doesn't see herself as such, she is a beautiful woman.  She finds herself dismissed from her job unreasonably one day and is desperate to find another position - hopefully as a typist.  Leda is one of the most proper behaving young ladies I have ever read.  She doesn't even get near anything that could be remotely related to improper situations or behavior.  As she repeatedly fails in her search for employment, she finds herself in one compromising position after another.<br />After a series of great encounters between Samuel and Leda, which I will not even begin to allude to, Samuel hires her as a typist.  As she begins working for Samuel, she becomes acquainted with his family, the Ashlands, and is easily accepted into their midst.  Samuel is a very self-controlled individual and cannot understand his strong physical attraction to Leda.  He has already decided that he will marry another and his commitment to that is strong.  Both Samuel and Leda fight their mutual attraction although Leda is so proper - not even meeting with her employer unless the door is open - that I found it amazing that they actually found the opportunity to become physically involved.  There are some sensual scenes and they rate a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />To tell more about this story, other than it is a tremendous love story, would probably provide a spoiler of some sort.  It is a very compelling read as Samuel and Leda discover through many trials and tribulations that they truly love each other.  Samuel had a lot of issues with his duties as one highly trained in the martial arts and had to decide where his duty to Leda ranked.  It is a wonderful &quot;hide and seek&quot; as the two grow together, then seemingly apart, then together again.<br />I highly recommend The Shadow and the Star!  I can remember so many of the details of this book even weeks later and I have read many other books in the meantime that I can barely - if at all - remember the primary plot.  This is a book that requires time in the beginning.  Kinsale is building a very solid base during this first portion of the book and I promise you that you will eventually feel very grateful for those long introductory pages.  All of that background just ties you tighter and tighter to the book.  Please note:  I usually want romance without many peripheral characters.  However, this is the exception to the rule.  Take the time - get into The Shadow and the Star.  I put off reading it for months only to discover it is one of the best books I have read!strong.  Both Samuel and Leda fight their mutual attraction although Leda is so proper - not even meeting with her employer unless the door is open - that I found it amazing that they actually found the opportunity to become physically involved.  There are some sensual scenes and they rate a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />To tell more about this story, other than it is a tremendous love story, would probably provide a spoiler of some sort.  It is a very compelling read as Samuel and Leda discover through many trials and tribulations that they truly love each other.  Samuel had a lot of issues with his duties as one highly trained in the martial arts and had to decide where his duty to Leda ranked.  It is a wonderful &quot;hide and seek&quot; as the two grow together, then seemingly apart, then together again.<br />I highly recommend The Shadow and the Star!  I can remember so many of the details of this book even weeks later and I have read many other books in the meantime that I can barely - if at all - remember the primary plot.  This is a book that requires time in the beginning.  Kinsale is building a very solid base during this first portion of the book and I promise you that you will eventually feel very grateful for those long introductory pages.  All of that background just ties you tighter and tighter to the book.  Please note:  I usually want romance without many peripheral characters.  However, this is the exception to the rule.  Take the time - get into The Shadow and the Star.  I put off reading it for months only to discover it is one of the best books I have read!	2003-10-20
US	51730223	R2ABK5U52ML8ZD	044022389X	342719929	The Sound of Snow	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Really, really excellent love story	The Sound of Snow is the first book I have read by Katherine Kingsley.  It was a very intriguing story with sound likable characters.  I usually savor the better books - not wanting a great story to end.  However, I read it in record time and now eagerly look forward to reading more of Kingsley's books.<br />Guy de Salis, Marquess of Greaves, the hero, appears in the beginning of the book as an authoritative man with few emotions.  He is dictatorial, curt and hurting behind a facade he has constructed to conceal the many disillusionments he has experienced in his life.  Guy has not given much of his attention to his five-year-old son, Miles, and it seems as if he doesn't care much for him.  But fortunately, that is not the case.  Regrettably, Guy and his deceased wife, Lydia, had not had a good marriage in the least.  Lydia had used Miles as an emotional crutch and a weapon against Guy.  Now that she is gone, he knows he really loves his son but just doesn't know how to reach out to him.  Since his mother's death a year previously, Guy had unknowingly given his son's care over to a woman who abuses him emotionally, physically and mentally.  Miles has withdrawn into a shell and doesn't speak or respond to another.<br />Joanna di Capponi had fled England at the age of twenty-one after a scandal erupted when a gentleman tried to trap her into marriage.  She emphatically refused to accept a forced marriage to a man who had been found with her partially dressed in her bed.  He had come to her room while she was sleeping and intended to compromise her and marry her.  When her aunt and uncle insisted Joanna marry the man and she refused, they disowned her.  Joanna had no choice but to move to her grandmother's small estate in Italy.  Now, six years later, she was returning to England.  Her dear cousin, Lydia, had written her over the years telling her about her awful marriage to Guy de Salis.  She asked that Joanna come rescue her son Miles from his father if anything should happen to her.  Now Lydia was dead and Joanna was in England at Wakefield, the country home of the Marquess of Greaves.<br />Guy responds to Joanna's visit with little graciousness.  Soon Joanna finds herself very confused and hurt as Guy informs her of the many awful stories about Joanna that Lydia has relayed to him.  Although Guy realizes he is hurting Joanna, he believes he must let her know that Lydia was not the faithful, loving cousin Joanna believed her to be.  In turn, Joanna now questions if Lydia had told her the truth about her husband's supposed awful behavior.  Although offended at Joanna's silent accusations and verbal questioning of his care of Miles, Guy finally decides to allow her to stay with his son in the position of governess.<br />Joanna is a woman with a pure heart who knows how to love selflessly and give joy to those around her - not only Miles but the household staff as well.  After working with Miles for a couple of months, Joanna gradually begins to see Miles evolve, once again, into a little boy.  The many instances of her progress with Miles are truly touching.  This is not normal romance writing as we read of the varied methods she adopts to help Miles reenter the world - from his reaction to her Christmas present, a dog, his first spoken words in over a year, his expressive drawings, and his ultimate progression as a well rounded child and totally charming addition to this book.  I found The Sound of Snow extremely moving as Miles and his father establish a very close relationship.  Both Guy and Miles realize Joanna is the one that has wrought such a miracle within the household as well as in the lives of Miles and Guy.<br />Guy soon finds himself attracted to Joanna as he learns more about the inner beauty she projects so effortlessly.  There is the typical tragedy at the turning point of the book where Joanna almost dies and Guy remains by her bed an entire week attempting to will her to live.  Gradually they both uncover the extent of the many lies Lydia has told about the other and are able to develop a true friendship and respect for each other.  It was refreshing to read a book about a couple wherein the relationship naturally evolved into love without the usual, required physical relationship.  But don't despair - there are some sensual scenes and they rate about a 3.75 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  As Guy and Joanna relish their relationship, you gradually feel this dark cloud descending and you know something is about to happen.  There are still too many pages left for just a HEA ending.  When the shocking event did occur, it totally took my by surprise and was one that almost brought tears.  In most situations - I would have probably cried but I was reading this in front of my husband and held the tears back.<br />The Sound of Snow is a rich story of love that has some very uncommon story lines for romance writing.  I highly recommend it.  It is rather a tame book and I relished that.  There seem to be bad guys always lurking around the corner in most romance writing today.  Although there is a villain in this story, it is minor.  This book is about a love relationship and that relationship is given quality time to evolve.	2003-10-20
US	51730223	R3H8ZC9KF9ZKWN	0060002069	774889342	The Lady Chosen (Bastion Club)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Refreshing new series for Lauren	I had only read a few books written by Stephanie Laurens prior to reading The Lady Chosen.  All of those books had been a part of the Cynster series and, I must admit, they seemed to get stale after a while.  Devil's Bride, the first of the Cynster series, was a really fun book.  But in my mind, none of the other books I sampled from this very long series ever reached the quality of Devil's Bride.  I am happy to say that The Lady Chosen seems to have a new freshness and certainly likable characters.  Published just within the last month, the first sequel to it is now available, A Gentleman's Honor.  I like that I will be able to read the sequel to The Lady Chosen so soon.<br />Tristan Wemyss, Earl of Trentham, is a soldier/spy come home from the war to an unexpected large inheritance.  Along with the inheritance comes the responsibility of supporting fourteen older female aunts and cousins.  The inheritance comes with one provision.  In order to receive it in it's entirety, he must marry within one year.  Tristan never anticipated marriage much less being forced into it.  He decides he will not allow society's matrons to foist a bride upon him.  He will chose one of his own  hopefully as close to the end of that year as possible.  Tristan is one totally cool romance hero.  Not only is he the dashing, handsome hero we expect, but also has a strong streak of domination and possessiveness that he can barely control when he finds himself strongly attracted to a very stubborn spinster who has no interest in marriage.<br />Leonora Carling is a twenty six year old beautiful woman entirely satisfied with her life as a single woman living with her dear uncle and brother.  She savors her independent lifestyle.  After a series of disturbing events at their home, Leonora meets Tristan Wemyss when she ventures next door to investigate their new neighbors.  Unknown to her, Tristan has been observing her walking in her gardens for days.  There is instant attraction for both parties but neither is willing to admit such.  Once Tristan perceives some unknown party threatens Leonora's safety, they form a wary and somewhat awkward partnership seeking to uncover the identity of the persistent criminal.<br />Tristan and Leonora are immediately attracted to one another and fight the attraction, as we have come to expect.  Tristan sees Leonora as a contrary, stubborn spinster who would not be worth the trouble of marrying.  She is clearly too independent and very set in her ways.  I must admit that his rather negative first impression of Leonora was my impression of her throughout the book.  She has more than one TSTL (too stupid to live) moment and is definitely set on being single.  Tristan is the first to recognize his feelings are more than lust but Leonora only wants the adventure  not a relationship.  Her character is one of two reasons I gave this book only a four star rating.  True to Laurens's style the sensual scenes are well done and rate a solid 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />The second reason I gave The Lady Chosen a four star rating was the mystery portion of the book.  Page after page, throughout the book, we find the characters going over and over the clues either in discussion or in their thoughts.  I thought the mystery portion was beat to death and wasted a lot of pages.  It was not that intriguing of a mystery to demand so much time.  Of course, I will admit that I always want the romance to be first and foremost.  This mystery was so lengthy that it ran a close tie to the romance in the number of pages it covered and the romance was just so much more interesting.  I actually found myself skimming through some of the mystery pages because it would be a repeat of what I had already read or it would be proceeding down the exact path I expected it to go.<br />The Lady Chosen is an entertaining book that I highly recommend.  Tristan's subdued yet sexy character was such that a lot of ladies will savor reading his story.  Yes, the heroine could have been a lot less hardheaded and still have been strong and, also, I'm just not much for mixing heavy mystery in to a great romance.  So this could easily be a five star book for you if neither of those particulars bothers you.  I eagerly await this entire series.	2003-10-20
US	51730223	R3HYIPRKMHKE06	0553585894	686260074	The Seducer	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Huge Hunter fan - Absorbing but not as good as her others	Madeline Hunter is one of my must-read authors.  I read every novel she writes.  I have given all of her novels five star ratings.  I really wanted The Seducer to be a five star rating as well, but compared to her other novels it just doesn't fall into that excellent category.  However, it is still an entertaining read.<br />Daniel St. John is a self-made man with riches, agendas, and revenge on his mind.  He has been guardian to a young girl, Diane, for years and visits her once a year, if at all possible, in the private, secluded French girl's school where he has placed her for care.  Diane knows barely anything about her guardian who she refers to as the Devil Man.  In the opening pages of the book, Daniel has been called to the school because Diane has badly misbehaved.  In the process of his visit, he realizes Diane is not a young woman any more and further discovers that the management of the school is corrupt and removes her immediately.  He brings Diane to his Paris home where she will live temporarily until he can take her to London where she wants to obtain a position as a governess.  However, Daniel has no intention of letting Diane find such a position.  He has other plans for her and lures her into the comfort of fine living with expensive clothes, servants, social engagements, and most importantly, the companionship of his invalid sister.<br />Diane is suspicious of her guardian's intentions and is determined she will not fall into his unknown plans for her.  She clings to the hope that he will eventually take her to London, as promised, so that she may become independent and begin the ever-important search for her missing family.  She was very young when she was separated from her family and since her guardian seems to be unwilling to tell her about her past, she must uncover it herself.  Daniel's invalid sister puts a different spin on the story and certainly adds to the depth of the overall book.  As usual, Hunter has put together an intriguing castof characters.  Although The Seducer has a mystery/suspense element continually running in the background, the primary emphasis is, thankfully, on the romance.<br />The Seducer is a good, spicy read with likable leads and a somewhat unusual plot.  The hero is human and although set for revenge, is not consumed by it.  As he finds himself increasingly drawn to Diane, he begins to discover he has the ability to care deeply for a woman.  Diane gradually becomes stronger as the book progresses and in no way seems a recent product of a secluded girl's school.  Although many of the plot lines are familiar to romance writing, Hunter still manages to make those situations highly interesting.  The sensual scenes rate a solid 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  This is the first of Hunter's new series, all of which are scheduled for release in 2003.  What a wonderful thing for a publisher to do for their fans!  The Saint is the second in this series and is currently set for release in 11/03 followed by The Charmer in the beginning of 12/03 with The Sinner scheduled for the end of 2003.  I will be buying each of these books as they become available and know there will be some great reading as a result.	2003-10-20
US	51730223	RDEKMW5A3PL7O	044020609X	909362703	The Conqueror (Dell Historical Romance)	Books	5	38	46	N	N	Mean yet gentle - have to read to understand	The Conqueror was the first book I have read by Brenda Joyce.  It is the type of romance often written about fifteen years ago that we do not see much today.  This type of romance involves a very strong yet ruthless hero who treats the heroine very badly from time to time yet finds himself obsessed with her.  The hero of The Conqueror reminds me of other ruthless, yet endearing heroes in two other books I have read from this same time period that stand among my favorites.  Rolfe, the hero of The Conqueror is similar to Garrick from Johanna Lindsey's Fires of Winter or Ranulf from Nicole Jordan's The Warrior.  I have written reviews on both of those books should you want a comparison.  Please note - this is not a book for the weak at heart.  This is strong subject matter that at times is volatile and at other times highly sensual.<br />Ceidre is the bastard daughter of a deceased Saxon lord and half sister to Lady Alice, the legitimate heir of their home, Aelfgar.  Now that the dead Saxon lord's sons have double crossed William the Conqueror twice, the new king has awarded their home to one of his most loyal knights, Rolfe de Warenne.  William has directed Rolfe to marry Lady Alice, thereby cementing his new ownership of this large holding.  Rolfe first encounters Ceidre in the opening pages of the book when his knights are burning a village for hiding Saxon rebels.  He mistakes her for a peasant and decides he will have a taste of her.  When his men identify her as Rolfe's future bride, Rolfe realizes he must behave but is extremely pleased with his future bride.  He had not expected to be drawn so fiercely to someone who would one day be his bride.  Ceidre takes advantage of Rolfe's misunderstanding of her identity and travels back to Aelfgar with him - hoping to find an opportunity to escape.  Upon reaching Ceidre's home, Aelfgar, Rolfe soon discovers that his future bride is Lady Alice, not Ceidre.  Rolfe is enraged, very disappointed, and feels Ceidre has playedhim for a fool.  From this point on, it is a battle of the wills as Rolfe attempts to put Ceidre in her place, fighting attraction every step of the way, and Ceidre defying Rolfe at every turn as she continues in her loyalty to her rebel Saxon brothers.<br />Now although I do appreciate a well-written alpha hero, I do not especially relish a violent hero.  However, although this hero, Rolfe de Warenne, was just that - violent at times - there was this underlying enormity of loving feelings he had towards the heroine, Ceidre.  Of course, being the typical romance hero written even today, he did not even want to admit much less explore his feelings for Ceidre.  But those underlying feelings caused him to stay close, ever protecting her - even from her own foolish actions, and taking care of her when she was sick or injured.  He did not want to banish her because it would mean separation from her although they had no official relationship - not even physically.  At times, Rolfe really mistreated Ceidre and at other times, he was honorable, and still at other times, loving.  It can safely be stated that his feelings for Ceidre certainly confused him.  Despite Ceidre's negative treatment, I still loved The Conqueror because it portrayed an ongoing tenderness between the leads that was very engaging.  There were many obstacles for these two to overcome and Brenda Joyce is able to make common romance situations highly intriguing without even one boring page.  <br />This was an extremely good love story and one that will keep you anxiously reading one page after another.  The sensual rating for this is high at a solid 4.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  The Conqueror is a strong keeper and I know I will relish reading it again.  Now I am eagerly perusing Brenda Joyce's backlist.  She is a very talented author who keeps the action mainly on the love affair.  Although there are some interesting secondary characters and conflict in the background, the leads definitely carry this story.  And that is the way I love the romances I read to be - about the romance!	2003-10-20
US	51730223	R2NJCXWQ367QHE	0515126780	513506896	Whitehorse	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Deep & intriguing - fantastic contemporary romance	Whitehorse was a superb contemporary romance.  This is my third Sutcliffe novel and my favorite to date.  I liked this one even more than Darkling, I Listen.  Katherine Sutcliffe immediately draws the reader into her books.  I love picking up a book and realizing within a few minutes that I am already hooked and in for a really good ride.  After reading Bad Moon Rising and Darkling, I Listen, I anticipated another dark novel - although dark novels are definitely not my first choice for reading.  But Whitehorse was in no way a dark novel although it definitely falls into the category of serious, dramatic romance.<br />Johnny Whitehorse is a modern day Apache Native American who happens to also be very successful.  He has a law degree, is known far and wide as a very famous model, and also is a popular actor.  In addition, he owns several thriving businesses and is very active in politics as he fights for the rights of his people, the Mescalero Apache.  Yes, it sounds like a bit much for someone to achieve by the mere age of thirty but that thought never occurred until now - as I write this review.  I was so immersed in Johnny's character that I didn't think about his overwhelming success in nearly everything.  However, Johnny has experienced at least one great failure that he cannot seem to forget and that was losing his first love, a senator's daughter by the name of Leah. <br />Leah Foster Starr is a practicing large animal veterinarian, the mother of a disabled child with cerebral palsy, divorced, and unfortunately, the daughter of a senator.  She has never gotten along well with her father, particularly after he forced her to break off her relationship with Johnny Whitehorse, her first love, and seemingly, her only love.  She has moved back to the town where she grew up and is barely making enough money to support herself, her son and his live in caretaker, and pay for all his medical bills and equipment.  She grabs happiness wherever she may - particularly withher son, but life is hard and we find her expressing her anger and frustration at life more than a little in the opening pages of the book.  She knows that Johnny is occasionally back in town and hopes fervently not to see him.  She believes he hates her - he certainly has reason to do so.  And she knows without doubt that she doesn't hate him in the least. <br />Johnny is back in town.  He now owns the horse ranch Leah's father had once owned.  Once he sees Leah again, after twelve years, it is not long before he realizes he can't leave her alone.  They both fight, uselessly, their mutual attraction and find themselves caught up in some pretty serious complications.  But this story, although primarily a romance, is also about so much more.  We read about the plight of many Native Americans, the joys and sorrows of a child with cerebral palsy, and some of the intricacies of horse racing.  Not all of this can be addressed in depth in one novel, but Sutcliffe is successful in bringing together many scenarios to produce a novel that is rich in experience of many subjects we don't often see written in romance novels.  It was totally engrossing and even had an element of suspense.  The chemistry between Johnny and Leah is strong and consistently present throughout.  The sensual scenes are a strong 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />Overall, Whitehorse has won a place on my keeper shelf.  After a string of  reading humdrum novels, it was great to find I hadn't lost my interest in romance reading - I had just not chosen the right book.  I now am looking for more books from Sutcliffe's backlist.  She has proven to be an author I can count on to deliver a great story and delicious romance.	2003-10-20
US	51730223	RYGZ2570C1AN4	0380795817	965764573	My Wicked Fantasy (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	This earl holds the heroine prisoner at his country estate	My Wicked Fantasy is the fourth Ranney book I have read.  The first novel was only average and made me shy away from future Ranney purchases.  Fortunately when I begin reading a new author, I usually buy at least two of her books to truly test the author's writing capability and style, AND to discover if her style fits my taste in romance reading.  I am so glad I purchased that second book.  I loved it and the last three Ranney books I have read have all been five star reviews.  My Wicked Fantasy is just that - somewhat wicked and certainly a fantasy of the heroine's prior to her meeting the hero.<br />To truly enjoy this book, you have to suspend reality and just go with believing that the dead can speak to the living.  Supernatural novels are usually not my style (although I have loved Dara Joy's books) but this book is only slightly supernatural and well worth ignoring that aspect if it bothers you.  This is a historical English novel that involves a penniless widow, Mary Kate Bennett, and a hermit earl, Archer St. John.  Mary Kate is searching for remnants of her long lost family and Archer is searching for his wife who disappeared a year ago.  These two meet by accident, literally, when the earl's speeding carriage collides with the public coach carrying Mary Kate on the road to London.  Mary Kate is badly injured but the earl is not hurt and he stays at a local inn supervising and paying for Mary Kate's medicinal care.  During Mary Kate's recovery, she begins to have visions that she knows concerns the Earl of Sanderhurst.  Eventually the earl begins to believe that Mary Kate is some sort of con artist in partnership with his missing wife.  After all, no one has heard from his wife this past year and their marriage was not a great one.  Mary Kate is the first to have any knowledge of her although she tells him it is all through visions.  She even has a concern for his safety because of her disturbing dreams.  Archer is tired of everyone believing he must havekilled his wife and decides to keep Mary Kate until she will tell him the truth behind her sham.  He takes her to his country estate and imprisons her in one of the bedchambers determined to find out where his wife is.<br />Mary Kate is, of course, a beautiful woman from the working class who has had much misfortune is her life.  She has been married to an old man who has recently died leaving her without any money.  She only wants to find her family who she was separated from at the age of ten.  She doesn't mind hard work - in fact, she wants it.  But once she has recovered from the carriage accident, she has few funds left and doesn't object too strenuously at being held captive in a beautiful home with good food.  Although she appears meek at first - it is only an illusion.  Mary Kate can and does speak her mind clearly and is not shy.  She is rather taken with the vengeful earl although she is even more conscious of their class difference than he.  Actually she is a little too hardheaded to be in the favorite heroine category but she is enjoyable.<br />The Earl of Sanderhurst is truly a man with a hermit capacity.  He has desperately searched for his wife and wants to get on with his life and must find his wife to do so.  He is determined, autocratic, and - at times- harsh with Mary Kate.  Of course, he is very rich and successful and has a great wit as well as a tendency towards sarcasm.  He is very content with his own company but does desire a family with at least one heir.  He has some awful childhood issues that just don't make much sense.  The cruel abusive father doesn't fit since his mother is a big part of this book.  She is a very lovable and eccentric lady who refused to let a nanny or servant raise her son.  She loved him and nourished him and still does although she is certainly an odd character.  At first I did not want her intrusion into the story but I came to really enjoy her contribution.  Her relationship with Archer is unusual for romance writing and truly entertaining.<br />Overall My Wicked Fantasy was a luscious read.  Although Mary Kate and Archer stand at opposing ends concerning her supposed visions from Archer's wife, they still are very attracted to one another.  Their relationship is allowed plenty of delicious time to grow and there are many great scenes to relish.  The sensual rating is a solid 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  I did tire of the earl's continued disbelief of Mary Kate and their mutual beliefs that there could never be a future for them.  Those two facts almost caused this rating to be slightly lower.<br />As far as I can determine My Wicked Fantasy is a stand alone book and not a part of a series.  I highly recommend it and greatly anticipate reading through Ranney's rather large backlist.	2003-09-22
US	51730223	RP88R0WQZG9WR	0446612944	709276242	Tall Dark and Cajun	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A wonderfully witty contemporary tale!	It's not often that I give a contemporary, humorous novel a five star rating.  Often, they seem to be truly paper cutouts - all the same with different names.  But this is Sandra Hill and she can write humor with such a unique flair and keep her leads real and charming AND interesting.  I really have enjoyed her hilarious yet touching Viking books<br />Remy LeDeux, the hero, was badly injured in a helicopter crash during the Gulf War where he served as a pilot.  That crash led to more than a dozen surgeries and lifetime physical scars.  He now lives in a Louisiana bayou and owns a helicopter surveying business.  He is surrounded by a very colorful family but prefers to keep mostly to himself.  Remy is self conscious of his scars and knows that they can startle people when they first see him.  Wanting to expand his business, he visits his neighbor, a crazy old woman who hates all LeDeux men, and proposes to buy additional acreage from her.  She vehemently denies his request but Remy keeps asking.  One day, visiting her at the point of shotgun, a beautiful woman drives up and addresses this crazy woman as her grandmother.   Remy is surprised at his immediate strong attraction to this new arrival to the bayou and a little embarrassed for her to see him is such a situation.  But he does wonder how this irrational, old woman could have any normal relatives and tries to dismiss the entire incident from his mind.<br />Rachel Fortier is meeting her grandmother for the first time since locating her and has come to stay for a while.  She needs a break from her life in the Washington DC area where she has just broken up with her long time, live in boyfriend and works as an interior designer of a different sort.  When she sees her grandmother, for the first time, holding a shotgun on an extremely handsome man, she is more than a little dazed.  So this is her grandmother - umm - okay.  And who is that gorgeous mans who lures her so?  Oh, well, the last thing she needs in her life at this moment is another man.<br />Of course, Remy and Rachel meet again and are soon in agreement about the strong pull of attraction both of them feel for the other.  Remy can hardly believe that Rachel can find him so good-looking and Rachel cannot understand his total acceptance of her beautiful body.  After all, her last boyfriend was obsessed with it and constantly trying to improve it through exercise and diet.  But regardless of scars, failed relationships, and many other vulnerabilities, the two sense their relationship is &quot;for keeps&quot; and forge ahead.  As the reader, you suddenly sense that things are going too smoothly too early in the book and begin to look for the event that will separate them.<br />Before, during, and after that required romance trouble spot, you will find yourself laughing again and again.  This is a highly enjoyable book but it does take a serious turn and some rather sad pages follow.  Both of the leads are very pleasant characters and there are pages and pages of delicious dialogue and interaction between them.  Sandra Hill is up to usual form with the sensual scenes and they rate a solid 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />Tall, Dark, and Cajun is not a perfect book but it is pure fun and hard to put down.  Some of the situations seem too contrived for believability and some of the secondary characters are a little too eccentric.  It is the sequel to Love Potion and the hero from Love Potion appears quite a bit in this story.  I think you will find Tall, Dark, and Cajun a notch above even the most popular light contemporary romances.	2003-09-22
US	51730223	RR93FSC2XA80O	0553569112	585755740	Scoundrel	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Simply a wonderful historical romance that has it all	I had a plain good old time reading Scoundrel.  I hardly put it down until I was finished.  I make it a rule to savor the really good romances and not consume them in a few readings.  But this book was so delicious that I just kept reading and reading and then was sorry when it did end.  Oh well - such is the nature of a delightful book.<br />Miles Montague, the Duke of Remmington, is the scoundrel and is all that we desire in a historical romance hero.  However, I have read many romances in which the hero was much more of a scoundrel than the Duke of Remmington.  I would consider him a mild scoundrel overall with the usual hardheaded nature and determination not to love.  Young good looking dukes seem to be the most desired noble fellows in these books - so of course, all the ladies want him to look their way.<br />Lady Lily Walters is one of those women.  She has been in love with the duke from afar for years.  She has never actually met him but thinks he is a dream.  Apparently this duke is rather conceited and aware of his appeal.  One night he actually requests an introduction to Lady Lily and then asks her for a dance.  She is obviously dumbfounded at his request and can hardly speak.  As she accepts his offer and proceeds onto the dance floor, she realizes she is acting as clearly smitten as she truly is!  But, as they twirl around the floor, her infatuation turns to horror as she realizes Miles has an ulterior motive for asking her to dance.  His smug smile during their dance tells her that he has just used her in some fashion.  He is so proud and self-assured that she imagines he has won a bet at her expense.  She calls him on it and decides as they exit the dance floor that she is not so smitten with him after all.  Miles is somewhat surprised at her directness and sarcasm.  As the reader, I am just thinking &quot;Good for you Lily!&quot;<br />Later that night, as Miles is departing from his club, he sees Lily running down the street, in her nightgown, clearly scared to death.  Someone has just attempted to kill her and she is looking for her father.  Since both Lily and her father are undercover operatives for England, she fears for his life as well.  Miles immediately comes to Lily's aid, seeing her safely home and locating her father.  No longer is he the conceited rogue that danced with her earlier.  He seems truly concerned and leaves some of his men at her home to stand guard.  Later that night, Lily leaves her home after conferring with her father about their plight.  He believes she needs to go to a government safe house for a time until they can be assured of her safety.  When the duke's men discover that Lily is leaving town, in the middle of the night - on a mail coach no less, they insist on taking her to the coach.  They fabricate a reason to stop by the duke's home on the way.  When Miles discovers that Lily is to travel, unaccompanied, on a public coach, he is outraged at the stupidity of the entire situation.  After conferring with her father, it is agreed that she will stay at his home, in hiding, until the murder suspect can be found.<br />Now Lily finds herself staying with the dominating arrogant duke that she no longer holds in high esteem.  Yes, he is concerned for her life but she doesn't want to trouble him with her presence.  On the first day of her enforced stay, Miles is beginning to regret his offer of protection.  He does find her attractive but she is just an innocent - one type of woman he has nothing to do with.  She also looks at him with the most beguiling eyes and he has a hard time resisting her.  So what does he do?  He sets down some hard rules for her, avoids her, stays away from home as much as possible, and is plain rude to her.  Despite his rude treatment, Lily appallingly finds herself somewhat still smitten with him and attempts to leave again and again to no avail.  The laughs really begin when Lily decides that since he won't let her leave, she will let him kick her out.<br />Scoundrel is a delectable romance story that never has a dull moment.  The chemistry between Miles and Lily is ever present and truly savory.  It's often a battle of wit as well as will between the two.  Miles, also an undercover operative for the government, is determined to protect Lily.  He discovers that under the ditzy, helpless persona Lily deliberately portrays is a brilliant, intelligent woman who is close to a genius.  Everything he learns about her only makes his attraction grow all the stronger.  In the midst of all this, there is a fairly good suspense story at work.  Eventually Miles and Lily can avoid their mutual attraction no longer and become involved in more ways than one.  The sensual scenes are few but well written.  They rate about a 3.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />Now that I have read Scoundrel, I have read all three of Elizabeth Elliott's books.  Scoundrel was published in 1996.  All three of her books are very popular and I believe still in publication.  My question is - where is she?  I am afraid of the answer but - if you are there Ms. Elliott - please give us some more of your luscious stories!	2003-09-12
US	51730223	R3GU4CX5CRR70E	0380821060	71506803	To Love a Scottish Lord: Book Four of the Highland Lords	Books	5	26	27	N	N	This is one sexy book!	I am slowly discovering Karen Ranney as a source of great romance reading.  The first novel I read by Ranney was When the Laird Returns and it was no more than an average book in my opinion.  Warily, I eventually picked up a second Ranney book, After the Kiss, and was thrilled with its greatness.  As I began reading To Love a Scottish Lord, I knew I was testing the author on the quality of her books and this particular book placed her on my favorite authors list.  To Love a Scottish Lord was an original romance with very sexy overtones.  Both the hero and heroine are unusual for romantic leads.  Both are very likable, truthful sorts, and do not have a class-conscious manner of thinking - which was uniquely welcome!<br />Hamish MacRae, a man of Scottish descent, was a successful captain of his own ship.  In port in India, he and his crew are captured and killed or tortured.  Hamish suffered through months and months of extensive torture before escaping into the desert.  His brother and crew eventually find him barely alive.  Hamish is brought to Scotland, at his request, to live in an abandoned castle.  Most of his wounds have healed physically but he no longer has the use of one arm.  But the worse wounds are those that cannot be seen and they are very severe.  Not only has Hamish been tortured, he has also lost all respect for himself and any sense of decency.  He just wants to live the life of a hermit at the deserted castle on the sea.  His brother however, does not believe Hamish should be alone.  He brings a well-known healer to the castle to begin extensive therapy with him.  Hamish doesn't want a healer but soon finds himself almost obsessed with his beautiful healer.<br />Mary Gilly is a widow and healer.  Her deceased husband had been a successful goldsmith and Mary now has a comfortable living from the wealth he has left her.  She concentrates on healing the indigent since they cannot afford a doctor's care and she is not a doctor.  But she is an intelligent woman who studies constantly to further her knowledge and ability as a healer.  It is a true calling of her heart and she is very dedicated to the cause.  When she is asked to go into the wilderness of an old castle fortress to treat Hamish, she accepts because she knows his family and believes she can help him.  When Mary meets Hamish, she is shocked to find all he has suffered both mentally and physically but hides her shock as she begins his therapy.  Hamish doesn't want her treatment but Mary can be quite persistent and, armed with a positive attitude, begins treating him anyway.  He attempts to push her away with stubbornness, hostility, refusal, and finally sexual aggressiveness.   Mary refuses to give into his games and finds she is actually attracted to the withdrawn and beaten man.<br />Within a few days of the beginning of Hamish's treatment, both Hamish and Mary acknowledge a huge physical attraction between them.  Thus, a new form of treatment is added to Hamish's daily regime.  Although Hamish is the typical romance hero in that he will never love, he does realize that he needs Mary in ways he does not understand.  He admits his need for her and asks her to stay with him for an unknown period of time.  He lets the small staff at the castle go and only Mary and Hamish remain.  They indulge in their physical relationship endlessly and love just spending time together as well.  This part of the book is very sensual.  The sensual scenes are actually integral to the book and rate a solid 4.25 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />As Hamish and Mary's relationship grows, a sudden change in location is forced upon them.  The book takes a sharp turn but does not lose your interest a bit.  The situation that forces the two apart only reinforces their care for each other.  This is a romance that continues to build.  It does not suffer from one or the other of the leads deciding that they can't love, or won't commit or any number of the overused reasons we see for conflict in romance writing.  It is only outside forces that push them apart but their hearts are never pushed apart in the process.  Although both suffer some scars from their past, they are mature individuals.  They know how to communicate truthfully and it is refreshing to have a book about two people who are grown up and know how to act like it.<br />To Love a Scottish Lord is the fourth in The Highland Lord series.  The order of this series is: One Man's Love; When the Laird Returns; The Irresistible MacRae; and To Love a Scottish Lord.  I don't believe Ranney is finished with this series yet because there are still some unattached MacRae brothers out there.  It would probably be preferable to read this series in order but I have not.  Both of the books I have read in this series could be stand-alone books.  It is proving to be a great series so if you only have one of the books - go ahead and dive into it.  There will be fun reading regardless.  I am now searching out the other two books in this series I have yet to read.  I am also looking in general for other Ranney books because her book, After the Kiss (which is not a part of this series) was one of the best romances I have read in some time and I want to see how many more of those great books she has out there.	2003-09-12
US	51730223	R1APZOJ88F6GTY	0440206030	672581836	Sun God	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Forceful, dark, and very sensual	What a treat Nan Ryan's Sun God is!  It is the first of her books for me to read and I am excited to see she has a rather large backlist.  Sun God is mostly a dark romance - there are very few, if any, light moments in it.  However, the leads have some serious negative history to work through.  Most of the book is about revenge.<br />Amy Sullivan is a very young sixteen during the opening pages of the book.  She has just returned home to her beloved family's ranch in Texas after five years at school.  Although she is anxious to see her father and two brothers, she has most missed Tonitiuh, a seventeen year old half breed (half Aztec - half Spanish) who she has adored all of her life.  Tonitiuh is the Aztec name for the hero who's Spanish name is Luiz Quintano.  Amy and Luiz's fathers are equal partners in a very successful ranch.<br />Once Amy returns home, she and Luiz begin a dreamy love relationship - first love in all its beauty.  When Amy's father dies suddenly, her two older brothers do not want to have the elder Spaniard as an equal partner and decide to run off Luiz, his only heir, first.  As they are attempting to bind Luiz, his father interrupts and the Sullivan sons kill him.  Then they whip Luiz and want to murder him as well since he is obviously someone very special to their sister.  In an unbelievable play of events, the brothers bring Amy to see the trussed-up and whipped Luiz and seek to find out what Luiz means to her.  Amy realizes how mean and awful her brothers really are and acts out her indifference and ill will towards Luiz in front of him.  She even hits him once with the whip.  Convinced that Luiz means nothing to Amy, they take him to the desert and leave him for the vultures.  Amy believes she has possibly saved Luiz's life by pretending indifference for him.  Luiz only sees her actions and hates her for it. <br />Now the book skips ten years forward.  A lot has happened at the Sullivan ranch since the river dried up immediately after Luiz's disappearance.  The Civil War has come and gone.  Amy is alone with the two remaining servants at the ranch.  Luiz, now a Captain in the Spanish/Mexican army, brings his soldiers to the ranch and reclaims his half of it.  Since the soldiers are presently inactive, the troops stay at the ranch and soon the river is flowing again.  Luiz is seeing to the updating and repair of the rundown home.  And Amy - so thrilled to see that Luiz is alive - finds she is a prisoner in her own home.  Luiz refuses to believe any of Amy's explanations and is out for pure revenge with her.  She is forced to share his bed and he is definitely an alpha male to the extreme.  Gone is his kindness.  Oh - he still exhibits his kindness to others but not towards Amy.  This time of Luiz and his soldiers present at the ranch is the largest portion of the book.  Many things happen to keep you reading the next page and yet the next page to see each new development.  There are many sensual scenes and rate a 4.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />Sun God is a moving book - sometimes a little heartbreaking.  You wish that Amy and Luiz were a little more forgiving and truthful with one another.  They play the hate game well which is one of my complaints about the book.  They love at night and hate during the day.  Although Luiz is a revengeful hero, you still are sympathetic to his character.  It is a little harder to be as sympathetic towards Amy.  She is hateful nearly all the time to Luiz.  I couldn't help thinking that if she would only be kind and make him stand still long enough to listen to her, things would have proceeded a lot differently.  <br />Overall, Sun God is a superb book that I will keep to read again.  Take heed - there is a mystical aura to Sun God.  If that is not your usual taste, just ignore it.  It adds a certain wistful, hopeful tone to a dark book.  Although this is a definite five star rating in my mind, I still have another complaint that temptedme to rate this only four stars.  The problem?  The ending.  It came too fast with so many situations playing themselves out within too few pages.  The last 35 pages should have taken at least 100 pages.  In addition, the leads work out their problems very late in the book.  When reviewing a book, the period of positive growth in the romance is a very important criteria to me for a high rating.  Knowing that, this had to be a pretty great book to make up for what I usually consider a serious flaw.  But regardless, I eagerly am looking forward to the next Nan Ryan book which I have already purchased.	2003-09-12
US	51730223	R3G2I2RO0SA4MF	0451207858	875962288	To Have and To Hold	Books	5	39	44	N	N	Powerful, sensual, original - WHAT A DISCOVERY!!	To Have and To Hold is my first novel to read by Patricia Gaffney and it will certainly not be my last.  This was such a fantastic book in so many ways!  Not only is the storyline highly unusually for romance writing, it is also very engrossing.  Both leads are written with a great amount of depth and progress beyond all standards of typical romance character growth.  This is a novel that you will make time to keep reading because its intriguing narrative just gets better with each page.<br />Sebastian Verlaine, a viscount and soon to be an earl, has recently inherited a country estate near the village of Wyckerly.  As part of his new duties, he decides to adjudicate some of the local cases - only out of curiosity - not out of any sense of obligation.  He is a jaded and disillusioned hero, bored with life and sinking further into depravity.  He comes complete with many of the \\"neglected childhood\\" haunts typical of many dark romance heroes.  But most of the similarities end there.  This is a story of his redemption.<br />Rachel Wade is a country gentleman's daughter who has spent ten years in prison for the murder of her husband.  Prison life has left her defeated and she seems to be just a shell of a woman.  No one has stood by her during her imprisonment and she has no one to turn to once she is released.  Repeatedly denied employment and robbed of her \\"start up\\" funds, she has no place to go.  She is brought before a court of sorts (English nineteenth style) in the village of Wyckerly for vagrancy.  It seems she is headed for a lifetime at a workhouse since she cannot provide for herself.  Then a local viscount, sitting on the bench at her hearing, decides he will save her.  He announces he will give her the position of his housekeeper.  This is also a story of Rachel's rebirth.<br />Sebastian doesn't believe there is much good left in him.  If any of his deeds come close to respectable, he immediately denies it.  Although he finds himself defending and helping Rachel, he knows the real reasons for his seemingly altruistic actions.  He is bored with the world and she can offer him a diversion.  He wants to dominate her, defeat her, and attempt to break apart her protective shell.  He sees it purely as a source of entertainment.  And, of course, she may be hired as his housekeeper but he intends for her to be his mistress.  For the first portion of the book, he truly is as miserable as he envisions himself.<br />Even at his worse, Sebastian is a delectable hero.  He does everything he plans with Rachel and in doing so, unknowingly aids her recovery.  He also begins to sense some kindness in himself - but that can't be.  He is past saving.  So he attempts to show himself to be even more depraved.  But it's not working.  Rachel responds to his kindness and is gaining some self-confidence in her new position as his housekeeper.  Oh, imagine this - Sebastian may have to admit to himself that he is actually doing something for someone else for the right reasons.<br />Rachel and Sebastian develop an endearing friendship.  The development of their relationship is at times heartbreaking and at other times so uplifting!  They are a very unusual romance pairing and their story totally captivates you as the reader.  There are definitely some serious sensual scenes that rate high - about a 4.5 to 5.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  This couple's sensual scenes are, for once, very intricate to the overall story line and are very well written.<br />I highly recommend To Have and To Hold.  You have to put up with some alpha male behavior but you also see that behavior evolve.  Rachel is a precious heroine that you may expect to be weak but you will be surprised.  She is a true lady as she begins to enjoy life again.  This is such a precious story.  It is a definite keeper for my read again shelf.  I know I will enjoy reading this book again and again and probably again.	2003-09-10
US	51730223	R30BKA9X265O2T	0380812967	239720478	The Indiscretion	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A very sexy cowboy in Europe!	The Indiscretion was a vastly entertaining book.  While reading the first half, I was so enthralled with every page that I wanted to laugh out loud for the shear joy of such great writing and sometimes I did!  Judith Ivory vividly portrays two seemingly different people who end up finding they have a whole lot in common.<br />Sam Cody is an American visiting Europe and is first presented to the reader in a very drunken state.  The previews of this book always seems to portray this drunken cowboy as a real highlight of the book - but frankly, it made me hesitate to read it.  And I will tell you now - Sam Cody is only a drunken cowboy for a very small portion of this story.  There is so much to him - so many hidden facets that we can't even guess them all.  Of course, he is handsome and big and strong with a terrific personality and brilliant wit.  Sam is a man with a heart and a conscious and is quite mature for a romance hero.  When he finds himself stranded on an English moor with an English woman, he proves to be an excellent provider in the wilds - miles from any civilization.  He knows that his companion is obviously a lady but is lying to protect her identity.  Soon he discovers many layers to this alarmingly direct and gregarious woman and decides he really has missed life in the wilderness.<br />Lydia Bedford-Browne is the daughter of a viscount and happily unmarried at the age of twenty-four.  Her family believes her to be sickly and constantly watches her every move, pouring tonic down her, and protecting her from all potentially harmful situations.  Taking a public coach across an English moor without a companion would bring apoplexy upon her family so she doesn't tell them.  She is so tired of her confinement and their protectiveness.  Stating she is visiting a cousin, Lydia takes off on what she envisions as the greatest adventure of her life.  Yes - she is going to ride on that public coach and be totally independent for three whole days.  Since her parents are determined to marry her off soon, she believes this may be her last chance to experience some freedom.<br />Lydia's only companion on the coach is a very handsome man who has obviously been in a fight and is suffering from too much liquor.  He must be one of those Wild West cowboys she has read so much about.  After all, he is wearing cowboy boots and a cowboy hat.  She is more than a little bit interested in her fellow traveler although she doesn't know what to make of him.  When the coach crashes and he literally saves her life, she starts to see bits and pieces of a most outstanding man.  Lydia is very curious about Sam and his American background and asks very direct questions that alternately surprise and charm him.  Sam is hesitant to share much personal information with Lydia.  He knows she is lying about her occupation and background.  While Lydia lies about her background, Sam just withholds information.  Thus is the beginning of a very good friendship.  Sam and Lydia thoroughly enjoy each other's company and find more than just friendship during their days of wandering the countryside looking for civilization.  The first half of the book is their time in the wilderness and is named Part One - The English Moor.<br />Part Two - The Negotiation, is literally the last half of the book entitled as such.  It is also a sudden change of all circumstances.  Both Sam and Lydia are back in civilization and involved in their real-life roles.  During this portion of the book, I grew tired of Lydia's obvious conceit, class-consciousness, and believing Sam was not good enough for her family.  She is literally hateful to him again and again.  But Sam has surprises aplenty for Lydia to mull over.  And, after taking pages and pages of her ill treatment, he finally loses all patience with her and loudly enumerates all of her faults to her in front of a room full of people in her home.  Of course, by this time, Lydia has begun to see that she is treating Sam unfairlyand wants to get close to him.  Now - he wants to be away from her.  Oh well - such is the plot lines of many romances.  However, regardless if they are fighting, loving, or just being friends, this book is charming and pleasurable.  There are some sensual scenes that are very well written and rate a solid 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  We actually get to see this couple's relationship develop and that is the main emphasis of the book.  My favorite romances are those that allow this time for romantic development.  Further, as the readers, we are given pages and pages of talented writing to savor this growth.<br />Although I have read two other Ivory novels, this is the first I have given the highest rating.  I have enjoyed immensely all three of those books but there is something that about The Indiscretion that is a notch above the others.  I will continue to read Judith Ivory's backlist and expect to find many more savory books.  I highly recommend this book and fondly recall more than one of those great wilderness scenes.	2003-09-10
US	51730223	R38LTG1P1NK8MW	0758204531	86146164	Standing in the Shadows (The McCloud Brothers, Book 2)	Books	5	219	225	N	N	The best of the best in many ways!	Oh my!  Whew!!  Standing in the Shadows is one very steamy yet very well written book.  It's not often that we see both of those important facets in the same book.  We are provided with real life characters - not the paper cutouts that represent so many of the same old, same old, overwritten contemporary leads of today's romances.  This couple also comes with a history - they have known each other for years and have secretly harbored an attraction for one other.  That, in addition to the background created in McKenna's first romance suspense novel, Behind Closed Doors, provides the reader with a solid base and allows us to be totally immersed in the story from page one.<br />Connor McCloud is an ex-government agent who has been badly injured carrying out his duties more than once.  During the last episode, partially played out in Behind Closed Doors, Connor is so severely wounded that he will probably never be able to completely recover physically.  He is now working with his brothers in their own private investigation agency.  Connor is disillusioned with life, very depressed, and mourns the betrayal of his former FBI boss, Ed Riggs.  Connor played a large part in bringing down Riggs and more than one of his friends died due to his boss's betrayal.  But still, Connor is left feeling empty and somewhat guilty.  Bringing down Ed Riggs was the right thing to do.  However, Riggs left behind a family ? a family Connor had gotten to know very well over the ten years he worked with him.  Now Connor is haunted by his former boss's daughter, Erin Riggs.  Connor had always hoped for an eventual relationship with Erin.  He has waited since she was 17 - knowing her to be too young at the time.  Now that she is 26 and definitely available, Connor does not believe Erin can ever be interested in him after his active involvement in bringing down her father.  But not all the bad guys from Behind Closed Doors stay conveniently imprisoned.  When the meanest villain around, Novak, escapes prison, Connor instinctively knows he will come after both him and Erin Riggs.<br />Connor approaches Erin for the first time since her father's betrayal to inform her that Novak has escaped and that she needs protection.  Erin is living on a very tight budget and laughs at the thought of replacing the locks on her doors much less paying for protection.  Connor gives her no choice in the matter and sets himself up as her bodyguard and protector.  Both Erin and Connor are ecstatic to be near one another.  Neither blames the other for her father's downfall.  Soon, they have acknowledged their attraction to one another and the fireworks begin.  The verbal interaction between the two is vastly entertaining.  Connor is basically a gentle natured guy - you think - but has this really big alpha male hidden beneath his gentle exterior.  He is a considerate man and very sexual as well.  Connor and Erin's relationship is a huge battle of wills at times but the alpha male always ends up holding the edge over the forthright female.  The sensual scenes are interwoven throughout the story and are every bit as erotic as many other interviewers have stated.  They rate a solid 5.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  It is some delicious reading as we see the leads' relationship mature further as friends, develop as lovers, and progress to commitment.<br />Connor is lovingly overbearing at times.  He wants Erin for his own and makes no secret of it.  Erin has a couple of TSTL (too stupid to live) moments that make you want to shout \\"Think!  Don't be so foolish!\\".  But overall, both characters are very likable.  This is not a book that relies on the misunderstanding theory of romance writing.  The leads are too truthful with each other - if anything.  The secondary characters are interesting reading - not just there to fill the holes as seems to be so often their fate.  The villains are a little too mean for my comfort level and a few of the scenes were too gruesome for me to do anything but skim over them.<br />This is Shannon McKenna's second novel.  The first, Behind Closed Doors, was a tremendous hit and is the prequel to Standing in the Shadows.  Both can be read as stand alone books but you will probably enjoy them more if you can read them in order.  The two books are very entwined and I would not be surprised to see another book or two added to this series.  There are at least two single guys left from this group of mighty men.  Although others have said it - I must as well comment on McKenna's talent.  Her writing abilities are superb!  She has the ability to combine many lusty scenes with very well rounded characters and even writes the suspenseful portions skillfully.  It is difficult to find an author that can master all four of the following components for such a tremendous reading adventure:<BR>1. Good flowing story line.<BR>2. Well-developed characters.<BR>3. Detailed sensual scenes that are an intricate part of the plot.<BR>4. Suspense situations that warrant the substantial pages given to them.<BR>McKenna has a rare talent that blends all of these elements into such a well-written book that you will remember long after you have sadly finished it.  This is a definite book to keep and read again if there ever was one...	2003-09-10
US	51730223	R2AXULEADV16Y3	0440235618	133960997	The Dangerous Gentleman (Rogues of Regent Street, Book 1)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A really vindictive hero	I devoured The Dangerous Gentleman in less than a day.  As I read the first three-fourths of this book, I knew I had a five star rating in my hands.  However, in the end, the misery over the continued perils of the leads' relationship was so relentless that I had to reduce it to four stars.  Regardless, it was still a very engrossing read and packs more than one big surprise.<br />Adrian Spence, the Earl of Albright, is one vindictive hero.  In the opening pages, he has just killed a man in a duel.  Deciding to hide out for a while, he travels to his family's country estate.  There, he encounters his enraged father.  Adrian knows his father has never loved him and realizes he wants a reason to disinherit him.  He wants to give his unentailed properties to his favorite son, Benedict.  When Adrian's father hears of the fatal duel, he uses it as a reason to finally disinherit Adrian and tells him to never return to the family country estate.  Adrian is very upset although the actual disinheritance does not surprise him.  His greatest sorrow is that of losing his beloved country estate.<br />While departing he stops in the nearby village and discovers that his spineless brother, Benedict, is planning to marry Lilliana Dashell, the daughter of a local country gentleman.  Apparently Lilliana's father is seriously  in debt and has agreed to give Benedict 60% ownership of his estate in exchange for payment of  his debts.  Adrian sees his father's sordid manipulations in all of it and knows the marriage would be very advantageous for his father since the rich farmland property adjoins his.  Adrian decides to wreak revenge on his father and brother and immediately makes a much more  attractive offer for Lilliana's hand.  Adrian has wealth of his own and can easily afford this well-planned revenge.  His offer comes with only one condition - he and Lilliana must marry immediately.  He knows that he has probably met her at some time during their childhood but does not remember her.  But oh, this is such a fine revenge.<br />Lilliana is a spunky yet gentle heroine who has always been in love with Adrian Spence.  She doesn't really want to marry his brother.  But since the marriage is probable and will help her family's finances, she has resigned herself to it.  When she is informed of Adrian's request to marry her, she is ecstatic.  She can't believe it is really happening and is somewhat suspicious.  After all, he doesn't even know her, does he?  As he pours on the charm, he convinces her to marry him.  He knows he is a highly desirable candidate for marriage to a titled lady much less the daughter of a country gentleman.  As soon as they are married and in his coach heading toward Adrian's own country estate, his charm disappears.  Adrian makes no effort to converse with Lilliana and seems not interested in her a bit.  As we see into his thoughts, we realize that he thinks she is just a boring, country girl without any attractive attributes.  He thinks she talks incessantly.  He feels no guilt over using her so badly.  And as each hour, then day, passes, we really, really want him to get his comeuppance.<br />Lilliana senses something is wrong as soon as they depart from their wedding.  But she is an optimistic sort of gal and keeps hoping for the best.  Then she discovers that he didn't even know who she was before he sought her hand.  Later she realizes he totally avoids all contact with her during the day.  After that,  understanding dawns as his superior attitude towards her penetrates her optimism.  The only time he seems to appreciate her is during the night before he retires to his own bed.  At first she is distressed, then devastated, and finally believes her life is ruined and feels such a fool.  At last, she decides she is not going to take it anymore.  Her gentile manners are laid aside and she lets her naturally adventuresome personality take over.  It is totally entertaining as she surprises Adrian and then silently crosses him or disobeys his edicts.  He, in turn, attempts to conceal any emotion towards her actions.  This is a thoroughly enjoyable part of the book.<br />Then, gradually, the real problems begin (yes - it can get a lot worse).  Benedict begins to visit the couple frequently and since the brothers have never been close, Adrian is highly suspicious of his brother's actions.  Benedict was a real pain - deliberately causing even more problems between Adrian and Lilliana and he finally gets very tiresome.  Unfortunately, this is a book that relies heavily on The Big Misunderstanding formula.  And it is not just one misunderstanding, but one piled on top of yet another.  During all of this, Adrian and Lilliana's sensual relationship is interwoven - on again - off again.  These scenes rate about a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />The Dangerous Gentleman is the first in a series of three books referred to as the Rogues of Regent Street.  The second - The Ruthless Charmer and the third - The Beautiful Stranger.  This is the first of London's books I have rated less than five stars.  She is a favorite author and although this book had some aggravating pages, I have to highly recommend it.  It is not often that I  praise a book that has The Big Misunderstanding unresolved for so long.  But it is just a testament to London's writing skills that it still captivated me totally - right to the last page.	2003-09-03
US	51730223	R1BU5JJ57L3H7I	0380803305	541388073	Never Love a Cowboy (Rogues in Texas)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Romance via a cattle drive and a saloon	Never Love a Cowboy was a good, pleasant book.  I had only read one of Heath's books, A Rogue in Texas, prior to this.  A Rogue in Texas was the first in a series of three.  Never Love a Cowboy is the second in the series with Never Marry a Cowboy as the third and final book.  The series features three English rogues, all good friends, who are shipped to America by their fathers to teach them responsibility and supposedly provide moneymaking opportunities.  When the three first arrive in Texas, they find themselves picking cotton to earn a living.  I was totally charmed with Gray, the first of the English rogues' story, in A Rogue in Texas.  Gray and Abbie's romance was such a gentle love story.  Now that Gray is settled on a cotton farm, Harrison and Kit, the two remaining rogues, are looking for moneymaking opportunities other than picking cotton.  They decide herding cattle to Missouri for further transport to the northern states is their best bet for some significant and quick income.<br />This is the story of Harrison Bainbridge - the one known for his gambling of the three English rogues.  He has shown interest in the local saloon owner's daughter, Jessye Kane, but true to those English rogues' reputation, his interest in her is only physical.  Jessye informs Harrison early on that he cannot afford the price she would exact for a physical relationship - that price being love.  However, physical relationship aside, Harrison knows Jessye has the funds he and Kit need for their cattle drive.  Jessye agrees to provide the investment as long as she goes on the cattle drive as well.  And so begins the first half of the book - the cattle drive.<br />Harrison is somewhat of a slacker in Jessye's mind.  Yes, she is attracted to him, but will not risk her heart with Harrison Bainbridge.  She cannot understand his continued cheating at cards - even when it has caused him serious trouble before.  She thinks he is always looking for the easy way out.  Once the trail drivehas begun, Jessye discovers she is very, very wrong about Harrison.  She would prefer to keep her negative opinion of him since it helps her a little with her attraction for him.  As Harrison and Jessye spend many days and nights working together on the drive, they form a sort of friendship.  But true to roguish ways, Harrison still occasionally seeks a closer physical relationship with her.  Their adventures are good-natured and mostly chaste.  Then during a heart wrenching attack, Harrison is tortured in front of Jessye in such a manner that it is difficult reading.  With Harrison barely alive and surviving the gruesome attack with only very grave injuries, the book literally changes to part two.<br />What follows in part two is the real life changing issues of the book.  Jessye is taking care of Harrison during his hoped-for recovery.  It is tough going and their relationship is so strained that it seems non-existence at times.  But this is romance writing and we can be assured it somehow works out in the end and I need say no more.  There is a lot of emotional action during this portion of the book with no bad guys lurking around the corner.  The bad guys here are the emotions and protective behavior of each of the leads.  This author does not play the big misunderstanding game and the leads, for the most part, communicate honestly with each other.  There are a few sensual scenes and they rate about a 3.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />Never Love a Cowboy is an entertaining book although I did not consider it as great as A Rogue in Texas.  Often, in a series, you will recognize similar plot lines or writing technique.  Lorraine Heath did not write these books in that manner.  The first and second books are about as different as night and day.  She is a refreshing author.  Now - on to read Never Marry a Cowboy - the story of Kit.  After getting to know him in the first two books, I am really looking forward to reading his story.  Although each book stands alone, I do believe you will enjoy the series more if you read it in order.  I have also written a review on A Rogue in Texas.	2003-09-03
US	51730223	R1UU2K7OBPQYMT	0312928785	138134724	Gypsy Lord	Books	5	22	22	N	N	One of the books that got me hooked on romance!	I began reading romance novels almost two years ago. I have always been a voracious reader and shunned romance writing - assuming it would be all formula and no real story. Gypsy Lord was one of the first romance books I read and it greatly influenced my decision to begin reading romance novels seriously. Since then, I have discovered a wonderful array of excellent romance writers and have enjoyed this genre tremendously. Recently I picked up Gypsy Lord again to see if it still seemed that same rich and sexy story I recalled. I was not disappointed. It was as great on this second read as I had remembered it.<BR> <BR>Dominic Edgemont, the Marquess of Gravenwold, is half English and half gypsy. His mother had raised him in the gypsy camps of France until his noble English father claimed him at the age of eleven. Since that time, most of Dominic's life had been spent at his father's English estate or in English schools. Dominic hated this new English existence and hated his father for deserting his mother. Although Dominic was still allowed to see his mother, the visits were infrequent and short. Gradually he had come to accept the English way of life. Although he was his father's bastard, Dominic was his heir to a vast fortune and estate. He is considered a dark, intriguing man among London society. It is rumored that he may have some gypsy heritage but he is still considered a most desirable man. Dominic rarely attends functions of the ton but is always a source of great speculation when he does. The ladies, always hoping to get a look at the mysterious, handsome man, wished Dominic would honor them with his attention. Dominic, however, seldom noticed any lady and remained an enigmatic and fascinating personage.<BR> <BR>Catherine Barrington, Countess of Arondale, is a young noble woman entrenched in the social activities of the London ton. She is one of the wealthiest heiresses in England and knows she must marry and produce an heir. However, she is not very interested in marriage. Of course, Catherine is highly sought after in the marriage market. One night at a social event, she hears of the mysterious nobleman with the rumored gypsy heritage, and tries in vain to get a glimpse of him. He is much the talk among the ladies and Catherine wishes she could meet him. Within a few days of this party, Catherine is kidnapped, sold as a slave, and is taken to France. She lives a cruel life, beaten and abused, and is eventually sold to a gypsy.<BR> <br />Dominic, now twenty-eight years old, is spending several months with his mother's gypsy caravan in France. Since reaching adulthood, Dominic had chosen to spend these months each year with the gypsies of his childhood. Now maturity was forcing Dominic to accept his dual heritage and leave one behind. Although he loved the gypsy life, he knew he must now live in England year round. His father was close to death and he knew his responsibilities would require much of his time. Dominic hears a woman being beaten one night and runs to protect her. He discovers a beautiful young lady, obviously with no gypsy heritage, and in his attempt to keep her from harm, buys her from her gypsy owner. Dominic, of course, has just purchased Catherine, knowing nothing of her English heritage, and the love story begins. He is very attracted to her and informs her of his desire for her. Although he has saved her from a beating and worse, his expression of desire insults Catherine. She has changed from a quiet noble lady to a seemingly viscous and confrontational woman. She will not allow Dominic near her and their battle of the wills is one for the record books. I got a little tired of Catherine's hatefulness toward Dominic since he had rescued her from the whip of an enraged gypsy, paid a fortune for her, and treated her kindly when all other gypsies regarded her only with hostility and suspicion. But if she had not been so willful with Dominic, the physical aspect of their relationship would have begun earlier and somehow part of the story would have been missing. Although Dominic doesn't consider himself to be a gentleman, he is gracious and polite (mostly) to Catherine.<BR> <BR>This book is almost divided in half. Most of the first portion of the book takes place in the gypsy camps in France. The second half of the book occurs in England. The eventual meeting of Dominic and Catherine in England, when each discovers the other's title and position in society, is priceless. The chemistry between these two is fantastic and covers nearly each page during the last half of the book. The sensual scenes rate about a 3.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines) but don't let that mislead you. This is one of those books that doesn't need specific descriptions of the sensual scenes to produce the chemistry between the leads.<BR> <BR>Kat Martin continues to be one of my favorite romance authors. Her books are never shallow and she has the ability to write typical romance plot lines and make them seem totally atypical. I have now read eleven Martin books and I would give at least six of them a five star review. Only one of the eleven seemed weak to me. If you have not tried Kat Martin books, I recommend that you begin with some of her older novels. She has a very large backlist and nearly all of her \\"out of publication\\" books are available online for reasonable prices.	2003-08-28
US	51730223	R3OH89YZE2QSNL	0060085444	550428439	She Went All the Way	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Rollicking, humorous, & sexy romp in the Alaskan wilderness!	There are not many humorous books that I give a five star rating.  On top of that, there are few books that carry such a ridiculous name as \\"She Went All the Way\\" that I would actually attempt to carry around with me to read.  After all, I would get some strange looks from many friends if they saw the cover.  How could I convince them that underneath that very misleading name, sat a very well done, sophisticated, contemporary romance comedy with characters that actually have depth and a mystery that keeps you guessing until the end!<br />This book was just plain fun.  My first impression was only okay because I was distracted by the setting up of so many secondary characters.  But that investment in those characters is well worth it.  Just because they get a lot of attention in the beginning of the book does not mean that is the way of the book.  The relationship between Jack and Lou, the hero and heroine, is definitely the thrust of this story.  Most of the pages are dedicated to this relationship with the secondary characters only adding some zest here and there.  And if you have read any of my reviews, you know that the time allowed for the leads to develop their relationship is an important criteria for a favorable rating.<br />Lou Calebrese is a academy award winning screen writer.  She has written her successful screenplays for six years and is well entrenched in the ways of Hollywood.  Her boyfriend of ten years (since high school) has just left her after she had written a screenplay, Hindenburg, for him as lead actor.  Hindenburg was a huge hit and made him a super star.  Now he has eloped with his Hindenburg co-star.  Lou has developed a rather cynical attitude towards the male species since this break up.  One thing she vows to never do again is date another actor.  And she means it!  Really, really, really!<br />Jack Townsend is a yummy and highly popular actor.  Lou has written the screenplay for four of Jack's movies - all which have been giant hits.  Jack is known for dating and leaving woman after woman and has, in fact, left a large number behind.  He had proclaimed in a rare interview once that he did not believe in monogamy and did not intend to marry.  However, Jack is a fairly reclusive man.  He has a ranch away from LA and spends every day he can there.  He dislikes Hollywood and all its games.  He is actually a pretty nice guy and not near as arrogant as he seems once we start to hear things from his side.  He has always admired a beautiful screen writer, Lou Calebrese, but realizes she does not like him at all.  He is actually annoyed at her dislike of him because he has never had a lady dislike him before.  After all, he does realize he is charming and he does love a lady's company and - oh yeah - he isn't conceited about it either.  It's just fact and that is how he sees it.  When his former girlfriend, the costar of the smash hit, Hindenburg, elopes with Lou's ex-boyfriend, it is a huge media frenzy.  No one knows that Jack doesn't really care and has moved on prior to the unexpected elopement.<br />One day, while filming a movie in Alaska, Jack and Lou find it necessary to share a helicopter ride to the set.  During this ride, the pilot attempts to kill Jack and the helicopter crashes in the woods of Mount McKinley.  Jack and Lou escape the pilot but find themselves running for their lives, through the Alaska wilderness, in the midst of two large snow storms.  As Jack and Lou are forced to interact, Lou is wise-cracking and putting down Jack every chance she gets.  Jack, on the other hand, is treating Lou kindly - however she may interpret it.  Jack has decided that Lou really intrigues him and begins an attempt to break down her defenses.  It's a fun and sometimes hilarious ride as these two outmaneuver the bad guys and fight the weather.  As the two grow closer, there are a few sensual scenes that rate a solid 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />I have read this author under the name of Patricia Cabot.  It is my understanding that Cabot writes her contemporary novels under the name of Meggin Cabot and her historical novels as Patricia Cabot.  I have enjoyed her historical novels tremendously - they contain a certain subtle humor that thoroughly entertains me.  I have already gone online and ordered another of Cabot's books written as Meggin because, despite the name, She Went All the Way, this was a fantastic book and I want to find more like it!	2003-08-23
US	51730223	R289NDZRE2SL50	0553583557	905022111	Lord of a Thousand Nights (Medievals)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Another sensual medieval tale from a fantastic author	Madeline Hunter is one of those authors who sits at the top of my favorites list.  She currently has six books and I have read four of them.  I have given each book the highest rating.  I own the last two of Hunter's yet unread books and will ration them out over the next few months.  I prefer to savor a great author's books and want to string them out to fully appreciate these intriguing tales.  However, Hunter is coming out with three new novels this fall (2003).  All of her previous books have had medieval settings.  Her three scheduled for release this fall will be set in the 1800s and should prove interesting reading.<br />Ian of Guilford, the hero, is a knight in the service of Morvan Fitzwaryn.  Ian is leading the takeover of Black Lyne Keep, a large estate that is a portion of Morvan's inheritance.  However, this keep and surrounding properties were taken from Morvan's father years ago and he is now here to reclaim that which is rightfully his.  Ian is your typical hero - very talented in all manner of warfare, handsome, arrogant, and well known to the ladies.  In fact, his reputation with the ladies is so great that he has earned the nickname of Lord of a Thousand Nights.<br />Reyna, the heroine, is the widow of the former overlord of Black Lyne Keep and is in trouble in more ways than one.  In an attempt to end the siege on her home, she approaches Ian within the first pages of the book, disguised as a courtesan, and plans to kill him.  She has mistaken Ian for Morvan and is greatly inept at playing the part of a courtesan.  Ian sees through her  masquerade immediately but allows her to continue until he sees she plans on killing him.  Although he holds her captive after her failed murder attempt, she escapes easily and returns home though a tunnel that leads into the keep.  Ian and his army have been attempting for weeks to find one of the hidden tunnels and he has set her up for just such an action.  He and a few of his men follow her and Black Lyne immediately falls - giving Ian the victory.<br />Shortly thereafter, the battle of  wills begins between Ian and Reyna.  But nothing is as it seems for either of them.  Reyna who has been married to her former husband for twelve years,  is believed to have murdered him.  Ian, although a strong leader, does not hold much favor with Morvan because of some past incident.  However, Ian had saved Morvan's life since that time and both feel an obligation to the other.  There are many mysteries to solve or past hurts to overcome.  These take as much time as the romance portion of the book but each page holds your interest nonetheless.<br />Ian is alpha in the extreme but finds himself tolerating behavior from Reyna that he has never tolerated before.  He knows he is drawn to her and hates every step that brings him closer to need and further from plain desire.  Reyna, after the first portion of the book, becomes rather tame although she still refers to Ian when angry as a whoreson, bastard, and several other such names.  It is fun to experience this interaction and at times very sensual.  Although there are definitely some fun times in the book, the overall tone of the book is serious.  The sensual scenes rate a solid 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  The leads are likable and communicate truthfully with each other or choose to communicate not at all.  At one point the heroine asks the hero if his father is still alive.  He doesn't answer her.  He won't lie and does not want to talk about such troublesome past issues yet - if at all.  This is a good example of both leads' communication with the other. <br />Lord of a Thousand Nights was an engrossing read.  If you have read this series in order, you will recognize Morvan and Anna from The Protector.  David and Christiana from By Arrangement also appear.  Hunter provides us with more than just the cursory appearance of these characters so often seen in sequels.  All four of these characters appear throughout the book and it is fun to watch them evolve further.  Lord of a Thousand Nights is the third book in a series of three.  The first in the series is The Arrangement and the second is the Protector.  I have been confused because David of The Arrangement appears in another book as well, Stealing Heaven.  I looked on Hunter's website today and found the answer to the mystery.  Since 2000, she has written two series simultaneously.  Her other series in order is By Possession, By Design, and Stealing Heaven.  This second series I just mentioned actually occurs a few years prior to the other series.  David links the two series together by appearing in Stealing Heaven and he is not yet married.  In By Arrangement, he marries and we see him throughout the next two books in that series as well.  It's a little complicated but try to figure it out because I was attempting to read the books by original publication date and was getting all confused.  Although I have enjoyed each book immensely and I read them all out of sequence order - I still recommend that you read each in series order if possible.  But don't let that stop you from beginning to read Hunter's books today wherever you may need to begin because you will be in for a treat - no matter what!	2003-08-23
US	51730223	R1E2ERWHLTAFI4	0380818043	90358606	After the Abduction (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 3)	Books	3	22	28	N	N	Great potential that falls flat due to heroine's immaturity	Sebastian, Lord Templemore, is a man enjoying his country estate and love of designing guns.  He rarely travels into London and lives his life with few friends.  He is, however, very available and attractive.  One day, as he is testing one of his latest gun designs, some unexpected and unwanted visitors arrive at his estate.  He seems to recognize one of the young ladies, Julienne, although he totally denies any acquaintance with her.  For you see, the two visitors accompanying her are none other than Griff and Rosalind from A Dangerous Love.  Griff Knighton is one tough guy and is very protective of his sister-in-law, Julienne.  They are attempting to find Morgan Pryce, a scoundrel who came close to ruining Julienne, and they believe Sebastian is Morgan.<br />Two years earlier, Julienne had agreed to elope with Morgan Pryce.  Once the couple had departed for their supposed elopement, Julienne discovered that Morgan had no intention of marrying her.  It was all a ruse - Morgan had abducted her for some unknown villain.  He needed vital information from this villain who wanted to keep Julienne for a ransom.  Morgan, however, gathered the facts he needed, saved Julienne from the villain's clutches, and returned her to London safe, untouched, but with a broken heart and a very damaged ego.  Although Julienne's family was able to cover up her great disgrace at the time, someone has now discovered her attempted elopement.  They are spreading rumors throughout London society attempting to ruin Julienne and therefore, limiting her marriage opportunities.  Well, Julienne has had enough of it all and has come to Sebastian's country estate to root out Morgan, find out the real reasons for his actions two years earlier, and demand that he quit spreading rumors about their failed elopement.  And Griff Knighton is mad as hell and bent on revenge as soon as he locates this despicable character named Morgan Pryce.<br />Sebastian vehemently denies that he is Morgan.  He informs thenewly arrived group that his twin brother is Morgan and that Morgan is dead.  He is able to assure Griff and Rosalind of his innocence but Julienne believes not a word.  She is convinced that Sebastian is Morgan and is furious about his deception.  Thus follows a tale of Julienne seeking the truth from Sebastian and Sebastian alternately attempting to ignore Julienne or court her and marry her.  The tale is enriched by the very active involvement of Griff and Rosalind.  We see their continued growth throughout After the Abduction.  Their involvement is not the usual cursory attention given to characters from previous books in a series.  Their story is a very special portion of this book that has nothing to do with the primary plot.  I highly recommend that you read A Dangerous Love prior to reading After the Abduction.  I had not and wished continually that I had. <BR> <BR>This is my fourth Sabrina Jeffries book.  Two have absolutely delighted me and two have really aggravated me.  After the Abduction had a very promising beginning but faltered greatly primarily due to the heroine, Julienne.  In the beginning of the book, I considered her feisty.  By the middle of the book, I considered her immature and mouthy.  By the end of the book, I found her to be demanding and unwilling to compromise.  More than once I had to make myself pick this book back up and continue reading.  But I had sort of love/hate expectations.  I really loved Jeffries's The Pirate Lord and The Forbidden Lord.  However, I kept remembering the heroine in The Dangerous Lord who was every bit as stubborn and hateful as Julienne in After the Abduction.  So, I continued to read with some trepidation and was disappointed when Julienne never really grew up.  Sebastian only learned to put up with her and considered all these maddening habits as endearing.  I'm sorry but there is no way I could see Julienne's nature as any thing close to endearing.<br />As with the other Jeffries books I have read, thereare the sensual scenes.  They rate about a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  However, there are only two or three and - once again - even in her ignorance, Julienne is the one in charge.  Their first encounter was actually embarrassing to read because I pitied the hero!  <br />The order of this series is as follows: A Dangerous Love, A Notorious Love, After the Abduction, and Dance of Seduction.  The story line was good in After the Abduction and therefore merited this three star review.  However, the heroine's actions just sapped the enjoyment from the book.	2003-08-20
US	51730223	R5SFWSAQP5LGK	0061012955	502444119	Some Kind of Magic	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Unusual, refreshing, and funny contemporary romance	Some Kind of Magic was the first book I read by Theresa Weir and I will definitely seek out more of her books.  This is a funny and charming story with gentle leads and realistic personalities.  There is no high suspense or other contrived means to lengthen the book.  It is mostly about two people who meet under very odd and misunderstood circumstances.  Those misunderstandings, which the hero allows to continue, are the greatest challenge facing this couple.<br />Claire Maxfield is an artist just turning thirty.  Her fairly tacky boyfriend has just left her and her self-esteem is somewhat lacking.  One night, as she steps inside her car to go home, a strange man holds her at gunpoint from the backseat and demands she take him to her home.  Claire lives in an isolated home far from town.  She doesn't believe in phones and is known to keep to herself for days at a time.  Therefore, it doesn't seem odd when she doesn't show up for some days because she is a hostage  - or rather - maybe she holds the hostage - in her home.  It's a comedy of errors and beginning love as each holds the other captive.  Claire finds she can't really believe he is that convict on the run from the plane crash or is he?  It doesn't seem to really matter.<br />Dylan is the mystery man in the back seat who demands of Claire to take him to her home.  He has been injured and needs a place to recover.  Dylan is a hard one for the reader to figure out.  Don't try to guess too early on because you won't be right.  When the clues start to drop about his identity, the reader figures out who he probably but he is still one odd character for a romance hero.  And his improbable identity is very refreshing.  I doubt you have run across this one before.<br />The love story of Dylan and Claire is fun, light reading.  Both her hero and heroine are very likable characters although neither seems to have much self-confidence.  As secrets are exposed on the parts of both leads, deeper intimacy is found and the story gets only better.  There are some sensual scenes that definitely deserve a solid 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />Some Kind of Magic is a notch above most humorous contemporary novels we see written again and again.  It doesn't follow the same old romance plot lines.  The only reason I rated this book four stars rather than five stars is that it takes a pretty in-depth book for me to give that highest rating.  I was totally captivated by this fresh and funny book.  I think you will be too	2003-08-20
US	51730223	R13O7Z844L92ZK	0804119805	396185159	The Prince of Pleasure (Notorious)	Books	3	15	18	N	N	The story of Dare - the most notorious rake I have ever read	As a great Nicole Jordan fan, I eagerly ordered Prince of Pleasure as soon as it was available.  Although I discovered a sensual book centering as much on mystery as love, it did not live up to her earlier books which rate as some of my very favorite.  I found Prince of Pleasure lacked a deep story line and discovered it was difficult to empathize with the leads.<br />Dare North, Marques of Wolverton, is a big time rake - one we have seen previously in Jordan's writing.  He was such a big scoundrel in The Seduction that I wondered how she was going to pull off a story written about such a dissolute fellow.  How could such a character turn his life around?  Well, sure enough, as Dare matured (rather late in life), he was beginning to question his worthless - to date - life and his leadership in The Hellfire League.  He has a well-deserved and very negative reputation with the ladies.  But he is Marques of Wolverton and noblemen in this time were apparently forgiven their many wrongs whereas a woman, with even a tenth of Dare's reputation, would have been run out of town years ago.  Dare had suffered a heart breaking betrayal in his one and only romantic relationship years ago and it has driven him to pursue women only as sexual objects.  As many rakes do, he finds his redemption in spying for England and doing a superb job of it.<br />Julienne Laurent is a famous actress who has never recovered from her one and only love relationship years ago with Dare North.  She has struggled over the years to make ends meet after Dare had left her without a word because he believed she betrayed him.  I must admit that their short-lived relationship did not seem to be strong enough to lead to years of dysfunction and tremendous sadness for each party.  If they had meant so much to each other, it seems that there would have been a follow-up conversation to Julienne's supposed betrayal.  They could have had no trust in each other at all to just leave the love of their lives smokingin ruins of such an obviously staged betrayal.  But this is romance writing and I have read many worse misunderstandings - but few that lasted as long as this one.  Julienne, for many rather shabby reasons, cannot let Dare know that she never betrayed him - even when they partially re-establish their relationship.<br />Earlier I referred to my inability to empathize with the leads.  I could not feel sorry or even understand Dare's extreme immoral life when he was a man who was very wealthy, possessed many friends, was very attractive, and did not have to work at all.  I don't recall having too many problems with horrible rakes in my past romance reading.  I usually rather like them as long as they get any comeuppance in the end.  But Dare's story just didn't ring true.  I also had a problem with Julienne's inability to be honest with Dare about the ending of their former relationship.  She had been truly wronged but refused to let him know anything at all.<br />Dare and Julienne reunite because Dare believes she may be helpful in leading him to the identity of a spy.  Julienne knows nothing of this reason but suspects his motives when he publicly announces at one of her performances that he will win the place as her protector by some future date.  Although she is not looking for a protector, she wagers with Dare, in front of her entire audience, that he will not win her.  Therefore, the stage is set for their possible reunion.  Julienne avoids Dare at every possible turn and Dare pursues Julienne relentlessly.  He reasons to himself that she will lead him to the spy but we see deeper reasons at work.  Julienne fears the hurt Dare can bring her once again and although she spurns him again and again, she cannot resist him physically any time he can contrive a reason for the two of them to be together alone.  The sensual scenes in this book are certainly strong.  This is probably the first book I have given a sensual rating of 5.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />I believe I would have given Prince of Pleasure a higher rating if more of the book had been about a love story rather than what seemed a purely sexual relationship.  The entire book was written around The Big Misunderstanding that had occurred years before.  Neither of the leads communicates truthfully with the other until late in the book which only allows the misunderstanding to grow even larger.  The mystery does take a lot of pages and is actually rather interesting although unrealistic.  Prince of Pleasure is a book I plodded through - not one I eagerly picked up to continue reading.  The sensual scenes are above average, if you are looking for that aspect in your romance reading.  However, as romance writing goes, it was only average.	2003-08-19
US	51730223	R16WKCYBFOU190	155166934X	234543037	Almost Forever (Sarah)	Books	4	87	92	N	N	Fairy tale of corporate takeovers & romance - Howard style	This is a fairy tale contemporary romance novel.  It is a story of a secretary who has a \\"dream man\\" enter her life demanding a relationship with her. It seems too good to believe and the heroine fights her attraction to this unlikely admirer.  Her second sense turns out to be right - he does just use her - but he has fallen for her in the process and will not lose her.<br />Max Conroy is a striking, rich, very sexy, and handsome man with English nobility heritage living in the States.  He works for a conglomerate, Spencer-Nyle, and his specialty is corporate takeovers.  As the corporate giant plans it's next takeover, Bronson Alloys of Houston, Texas, they discuss possible hidden assets in Bronson that could impede the planned buyout.  In an attempt to discover these possible assets, Spencer-Nyle sends Max Conroy to Houston for some undercover work.  He is to meet Claire Westerbrook, the secretary to the president of Bronson Alloys, and charm her, date her, obtain her trust, and ascertain the inside knowledge needed to prepare the conglomerate for Bronson's buyout.  You see - Claire is considered the weak link in the company.<br />Clair Westerbrook is a beautiful and very pleasant woman who doesn't see herself as such.  Five years earlier, she had suffered through a painful divorce from her wealthy, handsome husband, Jeff.  Jeff had not been faithful to Claire and left her for another woman.  The past five years Claire has built walls of protection around her soul and heart.  She has not dated and has schooled herself well in hiding her emotions.  She carries a very cool look in her eyes now that gives away nothing - she becomes distant and icy should someone attempt to discover her inner thoughts.  It is this woman that Max meets, within the first few pages of the book, at a party he discovered she would attend.<br />Max is the type of guy that ladies love and he has never failed at winning a woman he wants.  He is convinced that he can easily strike up a relationship with Claire.  After all - he believes she is kind and fairly naive.  But she is not stupid.  She knows Max's type - she was once married to a man like him - and wants nothing to do with Max.  He quickly discovers that she will not warm to him.  Her cool stare and his inability to read her really annoys him.  But she has access to all Max Conroy wants to uncover and Max is determined to not fail in obtaining this information.  He disregards her attempts to ignore and snub him and he begins to move in closer.  Over the next few days, Max and Claire play a game in which Max pursues Claire and Claire attempts to refuse him.  She just doesn't trust him.  Why would such a handsome, classy guy relentlessly pursue her?<br />This is romance writing and therefore we know that Max and Claire eventually get together.  Innocently and certainly unknowingly, Claire provides Max with the information he seeks.  What follows afterwards is the meat of the book.  Claire is broken hearted and immensely disillusioned as she discovers Max has used her.  However, the joke is on Max.  He has fallen for Claire and is determined to work out this little (hah!) problem between them.<BR> <BR>Almost Forever is a story about a romance between Max and Claire.  Max has certainly lived a charmed life.  He has pretty much gotten what he wanted in life until Claire discovers his deception.  She is much stronger than Max anticipated and he has some major groveling to do.  There are only two or three sensual scenes but are true to Linda Howard's style and rate about a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  Even with Claire's protestations and Max's manipulations, the two shared some intense chemistry for one another throughout most of the book. <br />Although this is not the best Linda Howard book I have read, it certainly was enjoyable and satisfying.  As is also typical of Howard?s writing, Max is a very alpha hero and Claire is a pleasant heroine who is not shy of confrontation.  It is light reading and as mentioned before - has a fairy tale ending.  Sometimes it is nice to just sit down and read a book that will delight you and make you wish there were a few more fairy tales in life.	2003-08-19
US	51730223	R2S0ENVGLTQWQ9	0671702513	29402714	The Prize	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Delightful medieval romance!	The last time I read a Garwood historical, The Lion's Lady, I stated in my review that it was her best romance I had read.  Well, I now say that again.  The Prize was even better than The Lion's Lady.  This book however, is set in a medieval time frame.  It is full of subtle humor and I laughed out loud many times.  Although there are some serious aspects to the story, it reads as more of a light comedy.  Both of the leads are strong and very likable characters.<br />Baron Royce, the hero, is one of the Norman invaders at the time William the Conqueror takes the throne of England.  Tension runs high between the Saxons and Normans as the new king plans weddings between Saxon nobility and Norman knights that have served him well.  In the opening pages of the book, Royce and his soldiers are capturing the family holding of Lady Nicholaa.  Royce has been ordered by the king to bring Lady Nicholaa to London where she will wed a Norman of his choosing.  King William refers to Nicholaa as the prize (thus the name of the book) because he will give her in marriage to a highly deserving knight.<br />Royce is a very popular leader of men and is known to be the best Norman trainer of soldiers.  He leads a very organized, logical life and demands obedience from all who serve him.  This is one hero who is alpha in the extreme yet very lovable at the same time.  He has an evenly tempered personality and exhibits great maturity - until it comes to Nicholaa. <br />Lady Nicholaa is not at all happy with the Norman invasion of her home.  She is a young lady full of mischief and a very expressive personality.  She uses her wit to escape Royce once her family holding is captured.  When he finds that he has been tricked by Nicholaa, he eagerly anticipates beating her at her own game.  Before long, Royce has found Nicholaa and manipulated her into accompanying him to London.  The journey to London is a long one and Nicholaa attempts to escape again and again and Royce prevents her escapeagain and again.  He spends portions of their journey readying Nicholaa for her presentation at court and to the king.  By the time they reach London, their relationship is a mixture of aggravation and fondness.  Due to some heroic action during court on the part of Nicholaa, the king allows her to choose her own husband from the many single men that surround her.  Although Royce can be thoroughly exasperating, Nicholaa has determined he is a man of honor and kindness.  Much to Royce's surprise, she chooses him as her future husband and the two marry that very night.  Shortly thereafter, the two return to Nicholaa's former family's fortress and begin married life.<br />This is a most enjoyable tale as these two match wits, annoying each other, yet growing in fondness for each other by the day.  Royce is very much in command and never asks Nicholaa to do anything - he only tells her what to do.  Their home is \\"his\\" home and she is \\"his\\" property and she is expected to obey without question and without delay.  I laughed again and again as they react to each other and grow.  It is thoroughly entertaining and not a page is boring.  This is a book that concentrates on the romance between the leads and most of the book is dedicated to that romance.  Although there are some interesting secondary characters and a couple of mysteries to solve, they take few pages overall.  We get to read more and more about this juicy relationship developing between Royce and Nicholaa.  There are some sensual scenes and they rate a solid 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines). <br />I highly recommend The Prize for an engrossing and delightful read.  It will definitely take its place on my keeper shelf along with a few other Garwood books.  Although I am not overly fond of Garwood's contemporary romances, I have yet to read one of her historical romances that disappointed me.  It's just that I can't decide which one I really like the best because they are all so good.	2003-08-19
US	51730223	R27T3A48HMMBIR	0312962479	788562587	Dangerous Passions	Books	5	9	10	N	N	English romance in war-torn Austria	Kat Martin writes a romance book like no other.  Rarely am I even slightly disappointed in one of her books.  Dangerous Passions was a fantastic read.  Although I have owned the book for at least a year, I hesitated to read it because of the plot summary.  Having a young lady (Elisa) from a good family travel from England to Austria, under a false identity, during the war seemed a bit of a stretch for me.  On top of that she had her mother's permission, pretended to be a widowed countess, and was looking for a spy that probably killed her brother!  I did not think that a very good story could come from such unbelievable circumstances but I was wrong.  This is romance writing and unlikely circumstances are written all of the time.  I gave Martin the chance to establish the story line and by page twenty, I was hooked and had a great time reading this tale.<br />Elisa Tauber is an English country gal gently raised outside of mainstream society by her father, a destitute Austrian count, and her mother, a former actress.  She is looking for a spy that her brother, prior to his recent death, had written of in his last letter.  He gives three likely suspects and asks his family to not let this spy get away with any further traitorous acts if he should die.  Now Elisa is in Austria, under the guidance of a friend of her dead father, and she is making herself acquainted with two of the three traitors listed in her brother's letter.  Elisa, although an innocent, thinks her acting ability will make others believe she is an experienced widow used to traveling and societal affairs.  She is fully dedicated in bringing the traitor down and very stubborn about it as well.  However, she is dealing with dangerous men in more ways than one.<br />Colonel Adrian Kingsland, Lord Wolvermont, is a career military man and loves the ladies and the ladies love him.  He resembles so many of those historical romance heroes from England.  He has hidden hurts from his childhood, takes no woman seriously, and certainly never plans to marry.  When he and Elisa first meet, under very embarrassing circumstances, Adrian is immediately taken with her.  He is determined to make this young widow his bed partner and makes no secret of it.  He infiltrates her life in any way he can.  Of course he is a very confident man and is aware of his considerable charm.  However, he cannot understand her attraction to two particular men (two of the traitor candidates) and becomes quite agitated at the attention she gives them.<br />There are a few familiar romance plot twists but Kat Martin writes them so well that you hardly notice.  One of the things I appreciate about her writing style is that she seldom uses The Big Misunderstanding.  Her leads usually interact honestly and any misunderstandings are typically settled within a few pages.  The interaction between Adrian and Elisa is just plain fun in the beginning and moves to very serious by the end.  Although there are times of laughter, this one will also cause a few tears to flow as well.  Dangerous Passions is one of those books that you will not want to put down.  There are frequent sensual scenes that rate a solid 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />This book contains a lot of action and there is not a boring page.  You will discover that it stretches the limits of believability more than once but if you can just ignore that occasional implausible moment, you will thoroughly enjoy reading Dangerous Passions.	2003-08-19
US	51730223	RXQJQ6LPPRNTP	0380780747	232060645	Splendid (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not quite spendid enough	Splendid was my first Julia Quinn book.  Although I found it to be an interesting book - I did not think that it was outstanding.  The writing follows many of the same old romance plot lines but it does give us a few surprises.<br />Alexander, the hero, was typically handsome, rich, sexy, and had no interest in marriage.  He is the Duke of Ashbourne and is extremely sought after as a marriage candidate.  Alex differed from the usual romance hero in that he tolerated some fairly immature antics from the heroine.  Although he strenuously objects each time she is involved in one of her dangerous capers, he somehow sees past them.  His reluctant acceptance of Emma's outlandish adventures appears more as a mature adult dealing with a rebellious child than two adults in love.<br />The heroine, Emma, was kind and beautiful as you would expect and a little atypical in that she was American and as inferred previously - very mischievous.  She is a rich heiress and has been very involved in her father's shipping empire in America before her trip to England with her aunt, uncle, and two cousins.  Emma doesn't want to marry although that is the hope of all her family.  While she longs to run her father's business some day, he has informed her that it will never be possible for a woman to head such a large company and continue profitably.  He doesn't think poorly of a woman's abilities - he just accepts that most men during this time period will not conduct business with a woman.  So, it is with some reluctance that she begins her first season in London.  She barely can tolerate all of the societal dictates she encounters in London and lives for the possible adventure (actually misadventures).  Emma is presented as a fun loving young woman but her mischievousness made her seem immature and she had more than one TSTL (to stupid to live) moment.<br />It is during one of these misadventures that Alex and Emma first meet.  She has sneaked out of her aunt's home, secretly dressed as a maid and running an errand when she first meets Alex.  He is fascinated with this commoner and follows her home - a home that he and many other members of the ton have been invited to that evening for Emma's coming out ball.  Alex, being the proper romance hero, detests balls and never attends them.  However, his curiosity causes him to accept the invitation and he arrives that evening fully prepared to search out the intriguing maid.  The fun begins when he discovers that Emma is not a maid at all and confronts her.  The chemistry between the two is strong and Alex is rather bold and improper towards her.  The book then mostly follows the romance between Alex and Emma.  There are many moments to savor as we see these two develop their relationship.  There are a few sensual scenes and they rate about a 3.5 to a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />I will certainly read more Quinn books.  I have read many very positive reviews of her books.  However, I was disappointed overall with Splendid.  What I believe is most indicative of this book's appeal is the fact that I finished reading it only a few days ago and have a difficult time remembering what happened.  If I really enjoy a book, I certainly don't forget it - no matter how many books I read.  Since my memory of Splendid didn't last much longer than the next day, I consider it as average and only slightly entertaining.  It did provide some fun moments but was not a book that I eagerly picked up to resume reading.maid and running an errand when she first meets Alex.  He is fascinated with this commoner and follows her home - a home that he and many other members of the ton have been invited to that evening for Emma's coming out ball.  Alex, being the proper romance hero, detests balls and never attends them.  However, his curiosity causes him to accept the invitation and he arrives that evening fully prepared to search out the intriguing maid.  The fun begins when he discovers that Emma is not a maid at all and confronts her.  The chemistry between the two is strong and Alex is rather bold and improper towards her.  The book then mostly follows the romance between Alex and Emma.  There are many moments to savor as we see these two develop their relationship.  There are a few sensual scenes and they rate about a 3.5 to a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />I will certainly read more Quinn books.  I have read many very positive reviews of her books.  However, I was disappointed overall with Splendid.  What I believe is most indicative of this book's appeal is the fact that I finished reading it only a few days ago and have a difficult time remembering what happened.  If I really enjoy a book, I certainly don't forget it - no matter how many books I read.  Since my memory of Splendid didn't last much longer than the next day, I consider it as average and only slightly entertaining.  It did provide some fun moments but was not a book that I eagerly picked up to resume reading.	2003-08-07
US	51730223	R303Z3YRLDLURI	0380812983	3080186	After the Kiss (Avon Romantic Treasures)	Books	5	52	53	N	N	A nobleman hero & commoner heroine & they don't even care!	After the Kiss was such a splendid book!  It is my second Karen Ranney book and much better than the previous one.  This is a great romance story between two very likable characters.  Both the hero and heroine are unique for romance writing and realistically portrayed.<br />Michael Hawthorne, Earl of Montraine, is your typical, very attractive, self-confident and sexy historical English hero.  He hates attending events of the Season or any such formal party or ball.  His similarities to the typical hero end there.  He is actually looking for a wife.  It's not that he likes the idea of marriage so much - rather - he accepts it as fate and knows his future bride will have to be a rich heiress.  His family is in need of funds after his father's poor handling of their estates and his mother's tremendous overspending.<br />Margaret Esterly had been widowed several years earlier when a fire killed her husband and destroyed their home and bookstore.  She has few funds to provide for her existence and lives the life of a poor woman.  She has no ties to nobility and has no desire to even know anyone of that class.  Margaret has in her possession three books that her husband had stored in their strong box prior to the devastating fire.  Margaret had only been able to take the strong box with her as she barely escaped death.  Now most of the money is gone and she must sell one of these valuable books.<br />These three books are a set of highly sensual journals and she locates a list of possible buyers her husband had left in one of the journals.  She arranges the sale of the first journal and travels to London to deliver it.  When Margaret arrives at the home of the buyer, she sees that he is hosting a masquerade ball.  After she completes the sale, she creeps into a garden to get a glimpse of the ball.  While catching that peek of a masquerade ball in all its grandeur, the hero, Michael, spots Margaret and the two share an interesting interlude while dancing in the garden.  Within a few moments of their meeting, Margaret flees to her hired hack and proceeds home.  Behind her, Michael is left desiring her company and cannot forget her.  He is determined to find her and claim that kiss she had almost given him prior to the interruption that had made her run away.<br />Michael is basically a genius at mathematics and breaking codes.  Although he is an earl, rank is of little importance to him.  Most of his friends are not even members of the ton.  He doesn't even require a wife that is a part of London society.  However, he is viewed as a very serious man that is not overly friendly.  In fact, his persistent look of  brooding scares the ladies a little although they remain very attracted to him.  His near obsession of Margaret really rankles him.  He is used to a very structured life and is very self disciplined.  His logical pursuit of a wife has become a necessity.  But Margaret has a way of making him illogical.  Margaret, in turn, is very drawn to Michael but does not believe they will ever have a relationship.  Although Michael wants her for his mistress, she flatly refuses and will not consider any of his arguments.<br />The tale of Michael and Margaret is a fascinating one.  Michael does tend to be dominating and Margaret leans to sugariness but both are very balanced characters and mature.  This is a book about their romance.  Although there is the usual villain in the background, the author spends little time on the suspense or secondary characters.  We are treated with page after page of great interaction between the two.  That is definitely the way I most love romance writing.  We are allowed time to see their relationship grow and there are no silly misunderstandings.  The leads communicate truthfully with one another and genuinely like each other's company.  There are some good sensual scenes that rate a solid 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<BR>  <BR>There are not that many books that come so close tomy idea of perfection in romance writing but this one does.  Although After the Kiss is not one of my all time favorite books, it still has a definite place on my keeper shelf.   I know I will enjoy reading this book more than once.  And that is about the best thing I can say about any book.	2003-08-07
US	51730223	R2P6EU6VQOLCW4	0380814714	78646061	So Speaks the Heart (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Lusty Medieval Tale	This was one of the first romance novels I read and it greatly influenced my reading choices.  See, it was one of those books that made me understand romance writing could be really interesting and fun.  I had read hundreds of books since I first read So Speaks the Heart and could still remember most of the story line.  There are not many books that can stand that test of time.<br />Rowland Of Montville is the bastard son of rather mean warlord.  He is called home after six years in France because there is a threat to his father's fortress and Rowland is one very talented warrior.  He is surprised at his father's request for him to return home because he thought it understood by both his father and himself that he would never return to Montville.  But after listening to a convincing argument of the friend sent to retrieve him, Rowland begins the journey back home.<br />Bridgette de Louroux is the daughter of French nobleman who has died and left her in her brother's care.  Her brother is now reported dead and since Bridgette is only seventeen, a really evil aunt steps in and takes over the estate in the unauthorized role of Bridgette's guardian.  The trials she suffers under this awful aunt are too many to swallow with any measure of belief - but hey - it's a great story otherwise.  The aunt has forced Bridgette into the servants' quarters, taken away anything of value, and Bridgette works alongside the other servants.  She is being kept for an advantageous marriage that the wicked aunt will arrange and benefit from financially.  And sure enough - the chosen future groom is all a woman could abhor in a man.<br />During all of this, Rowland is traveling through France, on his way home, blissfully unaware of what awaits him when he stops at Bridgette's home.  He is there to deliver a message that her brother is alive and will come home when he recovers from a wound suffered in a fight.  He is to deliver this message to the fallen man's sister and as Rowland introduceshimself and the purpose of his visit, the aunt assumes Bridgette's identity.  Through many more convoluted actions of the aunt, Bridgette ends up in Rowland's room that night accidentally and it is assumed by all that he has taken her virginity during the night.  In the furor of Bridgette's supposed loss, the wicked, evil aunt gives her to Rowland - insists he take her as his servant -  and polishes up some really big lies to convince him to finally carry Bridgette away from her homeland forever.  Since the aunt fears her nephew's reaction to his sister's horrible treatment upon his ultimate return, she forces Rowland to promise that Bridgette will never come back to this part of France again.  Rowland, embarrassed by apparently taking an innocent (he doesn't remember doing so), promises that he will keep her with him, as his servant, far away as requested.  Of course, Rowland has no idea Bridgette is a nobleman's daughter.  The tales he has been told about her repulse him and he unwillingly continues home to Montville - now with Bridgette in tow as his servant.<br />Now I know this all sounds a little overdramatic.  Actually it is much, much more dramatic than I have described.  But it finally makes an excellent platform from which a great romance adventure springs.  It doesn't take long for Rowland to see beyond Bridgette's dirty and disheveled appearance and discover a real beauty.  It also becomes increasingly difficult to believe EVERYTHING the wicked aunt has said about her but he believes it nonetheless.  He ignores Bridgette's claims to her nobility and her continued denial that she is a servant.  Bridgette is pretty feisty as she attempts to get Rowland to understand who she really is.  She finally gives up and begins to discover the man who she now finds she is attracted to as well.<br />This is one of those juicy romance novels that is about romance!  That is the main purpose of the entire book and Rowland and Bridgette have a lot of quality time to develop a relationship.  That relationship is often on shaky ground and has a lot of highs and lows.  The sensual scenes are few and rate about a 3.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  However, that doesn't indicate a lack of sexual chemistry at all.  Lindsey, in her earlier books, had the ability to create this chemistry that lasts the entire book without having to get too descriptive.<br />I have reread several of Lindsey's novels lately and have enjoyed each of them as much or more the second time around.  If you have not read some of Lindsey's earlier books from the 1980s (beware - her books are often published later without reference to their original publication dates), I suggest that you try one.  This book was originally published in 1983.  They are easy to find on the Internet and are worth your while.  Since she has also written a few during this timeframe that are probably not her best - I recommend - in addition to this book - the following Lindsey books for your consideration: Fires of Winter, Prisoner of My Desire, Hearts Aflame, and You Belong to Me.	2003-08-07
US	51730223	RILDBF97PXMJV	1551667843	159552832	The Horse Soldier	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Realistic historical romance set in Montana Territory	I really liked this book.  It was just a plain, good story as well as a non-typical romance.  It is even somewhat unusual for a historical western romance.  It takes place a few years after the end of Civil War at a fort in the upper Midwest plains.<br />Major Andrew Garrett was a Union soldier sent undercover to New Orleans during the Civil War.  While in New Orleans, he met and married Julia Robichard.  Within days of their marriage, Andrew departed New Orleans to report his findings and planned to return for his bride.  Instead, his identity is discovered and he is eventually sent to a Confederate prison camp.  Meanwhile, Julia's uncle has their marriage annulled and she is banished and sent away.  When Julia reaches her new home with a broken heart - believing Andrew used her for his Union activities - she meets a man and marries quickly.  Now years later, she is looking for her husband who has proven to be a gambler and has gone west seeking fortune.  She and her eight-year-old daughter are penniless and have nowhere to turn.  So they head west as well and end up at an Army fort in Montana Territory.<br />Major Garrett now is second in command at the Montana fort.  He believes that is still married to Julia.  Andrew has no knowledge of the annulment and believes Julia betrayed him as well.  Their reunion is bitter but both soon discover that neither betrayed the other.  They also realize their love for each other has not died.  This is a precious story of a wonderful man who takes care of a seemingly helpless woman and her daughter under harsh living conditions.  Although a portion of the story hinges on finding Julia's husband, a larger part of the story concerns the daughter and her initial rejection of Andrew.  She wants her father and believes Andrew is somehow in the way.  It is heart rending to read of her actions towards him and his attempts to gain her acceptance.  But the most action in the book is the love relationship between Andrew and Julia.  It isa mature relationship that recognizes responsibility.  Although both leads are hardheads and a bit belligerent, they also have very tender moments.  Both the hero and heroine are well-written and likable characters.  Lovelace doesn't have to resort to the usual romance misunderstanding ploys.  Her characters relate to each other truthfully.<br />The realism of frontier life is very well written.  Even as a history buff, I learned many things about 19th century Army life and recalled some of the sadder facts of the Indian uprisings.  Actual famous Native Americans and white men are included in the background of the story.  While this book is well written, romantic, and historically interesting, it also contains some good sexual chemistry.  The sensual scenes rate about a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />This is my first Lovelace book and it certainly will not be my last.  At this very moment, I am going to visit Amazon and conduct a search for more of her books.	2003-08-07
US	51730223	R1M0Z4LQ21T8I	0671786113	486399296	Fair Haven	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Pulitzer photojounalist hero & relief aid physician heroine	I have been branching out to a wide variety of new authors.  I had only read one of Ross's books prior to Fair Haven.  It is the prequel to this book, A Woman's Heart.  A Woman's Heart earned a five star rating when I reviewed it on Amazon.  Fair Haven, however, will not rate as high.  Joann Ross is a very good author and writes charming, personable stories full of Irish history and fables.  But Fair Haven was a fairly boring book.  The Irish history was interesting but I admit that I am not drawn to ancient Irish myths, fairies, guardian angels, and ghosts of relatives.  There are many very old Irish tales told in this book by my more than one character.  I know it is to draw me into this slightly magical world of Ireland in present day.  But the tales were lackluster and the appearance of the dead or the reliving of lives through reincarnation was wearisome rather than intriguing.  I state all this upfront for you to understand my reasons for rating this book three stars.<br />This is a story of family, recovery, death, love, and magic.  It reads like a novel rather than a romance novel.  The romance is only a portion of this book (probably a third) and the remainder of the book concentrates on secondary characters, characters from the previous book in this series, and - as mentioned before - the telling of many, many Irish legends.<br />Michael Joyce, the brother of Nora from A Woman's Heart, is the hero of Fair Haven.  He is a celebrated photographer who has covered the wars across the world and has become cynical and withdrawn in the process.  Although he has won a Pulitzer Prize for his work and published books, he no longer wants to be associated with the dredges of war and ethnic cleansing.  He has returned to his farm in Ireland and spends all of this time alone attempting to find a life again after becoming a shell of a man.<br />Erin O'Halloran is a physician who has worked the hospitals on the warfronts of the world in relief aid.  She too has seen the atrocities that Michael has seen and is burning out.  Her best friend and former relief worker, Tom Flannery, also a physician, is dying in his home country of Ireland.  Erin goes to Ireland to assist Tom in his medical practice and to find a cure for Tom.  She is a rather stubborn, single-minded lady who has known little but school and medicine in her life.  She first meets Michael when Tom picks her up at the airport.  Michael is a best friend of Tom's as well and he has accompanied Tom to assist in the driving.  Erin recognizes Michael immediately although they have never meet.  He is quite a celebrity as a photojournalist and she casts him in the same mold as all journalists - only out to record the horrors of the world on film and make themselves famous in the process.<br />Michael and Erin clash almost immediately.  It is difficult for them both to recognize any attraction between them.  I found the first half of the book to be very slow and somewhat tedious.  I made a few notes as a read and read, hoping to finally find the story moving forward.<BR>Page 181 - I must consider Ross's books as more fiction than romance.  It's page 181 and the leads don't even really think they are attracted to one another yet.  At this point, this book would be no more than a three star review.<BR>Page 230 - I still don't like Erin, the heroine.  She has just made such an immature, bratty, and unfeeling remark to the hero that I feel like giving up reading anymore of this book.<br />I continued reading however, and thank goodness I did because the last one-quarter of the book was tender and intriguing reading.  Erin makes a sudden and almost unbelievable shift in her attitude towards Michael and life in general.  But it allows the romance to develop and Michael's daughter gradually assumes a larger role in the story.  If Fair Haven had been my first Ross book, it would have been difficult for me to read another.  However, A Woman's Heart was my first Ross book and so precious that I will still seek more of her books for reading.	2003-08-07
US	51730223	R3E01AS4IKF63H	0380801027	345543896	Absolute Trouble	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Love between an ex-cop heroine & male stripper hero!	After my first Jerott book, A Great Catch, I felt certain that she could not write a weak book.  All Night Long was the second book of Jerott's books I read and although not as good as A Great Catch, I still enjoyed it and gave it a high rating.  Absolute Trouble, however, took me hours to finish.  I found the book to be only mildly interesting until the last fourth of the book.<br />Dulcinea Quinn (Dulcie) is a retired cop - one forced into retirement after a beating with a bat one night.  It left Dulcie with a badly injured back and forced her into a new career.  She has artistic talent and begins making and selling dolls.  She lives on a houseboat on Lake Pontchartrain and finds the gentle motion of the water soothes her aching back.  Although now out of police work, she still has many friends within the department.  One night, a detective friend, Bobby, brings an eyewitness to her and asks her to hide him on her boat for 24 hours.  This witness, Julien Langlois, has observed a murder that will bring down a big-time criminal that the police have attempted to apprehend for years.  Dulcie has a personal interest in the capture and conviction of this crime-lord.  It was one of his men that brutally beat her several years ago.  With great reluctance, Dulcie allows Julien to stay aboard her houseboat as the police close in on the crime lord.  Two police officers stay with her on the boat for protection.  However, Dulcie has a little problem with this witness - he is wearing only the detective's trench coat, a g-string, and bow tie.  He is a dancer at one of the strip clubs that caters to women.  He is surely a hunk and more than a little belligerent.  It seems he is after the crime lord as well and is not happy with the enforced police protection.<br />Absolute Trouble, although intriguing, was difficult reading for the first three-fourths of the book.  This difficulty was based entirely on the romantic relationship between Dulcie and Julien.  Their relationship was forced in the beginning - each trying to get something from the other.  Julien wants Dulcie to release him.  Dulcie wants Julien to work with the police to capture this bad guy.  For most of the book, the romantic relationship remained very strained.  I could not envision the leads as a real couple. The majority of their conversation was dedicated to fighting.  They would make love, fight, make love almost, fight, finish making love, and fight again.  Then they would have a little normal conversation and then fight again and again and then start all over again.  At one point, I put the book down not intending to finish it.  But I was curious about a few things and was very pleased with the last portion of the book.<br />What did they fight so much about?  Julien is determined to bring down the crime-lord, to avenge his brother's death and he plans to kill him without any police assistance.  Dulcie, early on, tells Julien she loves him.  This seemed very out of place and, as the reader, I wondered if she was attempting to manipulate Julien.  But she was serious with her declaration and she fights him to give up his pursuit of this evil man.  Although the couple makes love often, it just doesn't seem sincere or meaningful.  The actual sensual scenes rate about a 3.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  I could not comprehend a real couple, knowing each other for such a short period of time, conversing, as Dulcie wanted them to.  It is no wonder that Julien doubted her motivations.<br />Although Absolute Trouble did not prove to be a powerful story, it was still a pleasant book. This is Jerott's debut novel and I believe she becomes more talented with each book she writes.  Her backlist is short and will take little time to work through.  Therefore, I look forward to her next release.  Jerott also writes under the name of Michele Albert.	2003-08-07
US	51730223	RZU5M1NKEBAXU	0758204434	399804889	Almost A Gentleman	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Too much imagination required - very unrealistic story	I have discovered that giving a negative review can be a very unpopular act.  I have avoided writing these low rated reviews firstly because I take great care in choosing the books I will read.  Therefore, I rarely read a book lower than a three star rating.  Secondly, many negative reviews seem to be based on a reader's taste - not the actual writing itself.  Acknowledging that there are a wide variety of tastes and preferences in romance writing, I usually decide not to make public my dislike of a book I have so carefully chosen.  However, since Almost a Gentleman is so far removed from many of the standards that I believe comprise good romance writing, I am putting in words my negative contemplations concerning this disappointing story.<br />Mr. Philip \\"Phizz\\" Marston is the very unlikely heroine of Almost a Gentleman.  Three years previously, her unfaithful and unkind husband, Lord Claringworth, had in a drunken state wrecked the family's carriage, killing himself, the three-year-old son, and the unborn daughter.  Only Lady Claringworth survived the wreck and friends help her stage her own death.  She wants nothing to do with her previous life or family and never again wants to be confined by society's restrictions placed upon women.<br />Phizz Marton, has come out of nowhere, with no noble background.  However, he is a cynical member of society - widely accepted - and is held in high regard by both men and women for his male beauty.  Phizz puts a lot of effort into his every day appearance with fake whiskers, short hair, bound breasts, and padded clothing.  That he lives a lie, day in and day out, is supposed to be of little consequence to us as the readers.  Even his best male friends, who he (she) spends a lot of time with, know nothing of this charade.  Phizz is able to give a cut to his supposed piers that will be accepted unreservedly among London society.  He is a sarcastic and mocking figure - certainly not someone I would want as a friend.  Yet, we areexpected to believe that this man, with no background, is so easily accepted by so many in this high-minded society.  Phizz has no desire to ever live life as a woman again.  Although, he (she) allows herself a dress on her scarce retreats from London, this is rare.  She hires a gentleman of the night to come and fulfill her true sexual needs on a regular basis.  That anyone could want to live the rest of his or her life as a member of the opposite sex is just plain weird to me.  Oh, I could see if it were a temporary masquerade to accomplish an end.  But there is nothing temporary about Phizz's preference of living.  I was never able to accept this grossly dishonest character as the heroine.  Certainly, thousands of other women have suffered much, much worse and still found some happiness in some other role and remained true to her sex.  This was just too, too much of a stretch for me to believe even for the basis of a fictional story.<br />And then, when the hero is added to this highly unlikely story line, the book becomes even more far-fetched and we are expected to be enthralled by David, the very manly and mature hero, finding himself strangely attracted to Phizz.  He has never been attracted to a man in the least.  Well, most men would just consider this odd attraction a little too odd to pursue.  But David follows Phizz - not understanding his intentions entirely.  After some observance and background checks, David discovers that Phizz is actually a woman.  Well, you would assume that the story would begin a turn after the discovery.  Yes, David does finally admit to the heroine that he knows she is a woman.  But, he has this very considerate heart that convinces him that he will assist her in her disguise.  He knows he wants her as a woman but there is trouble afoot and David goes to great lengths to help Phizz out of a troublesome situation that seems to stem from her false identity.  At this point, I could not find any sympathy for Phizz, who stubbornly refuses to give up his (her) life as a man even as her life is in jeopardy.  The story only becomes more and more unlikely with every page.  And David's attempt to aid Phizz only emasculates him further.<br />This entire story is very convoluted in my opinion.  Some of the reviews refer to the sensual scenes as very sexual.  I did not find these scenes as unusually sexy and rate them no higher than a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  Even in these scenes, Phizz pushes to take control.  It seems that even her budding love for David cannot keep her from her need to dominate men.<br />Many of the aspects of this book could have been accepted and enjoyed singularly or possibly with two working together.  But we are ask to place all realism aside.  Even fairy tale romances are easier to believe than this.  It will take a lot of research and  convincing for me to purchase Rosenthal?s next book.	2003-07-27
US	51730223	R2CGDA7F33YD49	0440226317	57073862	The Devil's Love	Books	5	34	34	N	N	A delicious arranged marriage gone awry!	This is my second Julia London book.  Both have been great stories and have each received a 5 star rating from me.  London has a particularly charming ability when it comes to writing alpha males that are forced to reign in their strong personalities, grow up, and give of themselves.  Her heroines are pleasant, innocent, and naive although a little too sweet for believability.<br />Michael Ingram, Marquis of Darfield, had sailed the seas at the age of nineteen, upon Captain Carrington's ship as a member of the crew.  Also sailing on that ship was the captain's young daughter, Abigail (Abbey), known to all aboard as a wild, undisciplined yet charming child.  Abbey had not seen Michael since that voyage twelve years ago.  But she had held, in her heart and mind, dear memories of Michael and had eagerly awaited their future marriage.  <br />Abbey's father, taking advantage of the young future marquis's financial problems, had loaned Michael, at that vulnerable age of nineteen, a large sum of money to repay his father's creditors.  Michael's father was gambling away all the family's ancestral fortune and lands - thus Michael was desperate for the Captain's financial aid.  Included in this financial contract was a betrothal agreement between Michael and the captain's daughter.  This betrothal clause would be evoked only if Michael had failed to repay the Captain in full at some future specified date. Since the signing of that agreement, at least ten years ago, Michael had amassed a fortune himself and had repaid all of his father's debts.  Michael, now Marquis of Darfield, had essentially forgotten the old agreement since all debt had been paid off.  However, Captain Carrington had not been totally upfront with the young man all those years ago.  The captain had hidden a large portion of Michael's father's debts from him and, prior to the his death, had evoked the betrothal portion of the agreement.  No matter what Michael attempted to do, he discovered he was truly bound by the contract and - most unhappily - was forced to marry the captain?s daughter, Abbey.<br />Abbey, blissfully unaware of Michael's hostility and hatred of the marriage agreement, sailed from America to England believing herself totally in love with her future husband.  Her father had told her, through the years, how much Michael wanted the forthcoming marriage and the love he held for her.  Abbey discovered, much to her horror, that Michael was not the willing bridegroom.  Not only was he unwilling - he treated her terribly - hoping that she would break the agreement.  However, idyllic in her belief that Michael would someday love her, she refused to break the betrothal and they married.<br />All of the above happenings occur within the first 57 pages of the book.  Immediately after the rushed wedding, Michael leaves Abbey at one of his country estates and travels to another for an indefinite period of time.  He is determined to make Abbey suffer tremendously for the enforced marriage.  During this period of the book, Michael is a really mean guy.  He treats Abbey with contempt, suspicion, hatred, and is out for revenge.  Abbey, conversely, is an extremely naive young woman and seeks happiness despite Michael's attempt to make her life a misery.  Not only is she naive, she is also sweet - a little too sweet.  One of my two complaints about The Devil's Love is her character is too sugary.  She is seen as such an innocent and draws everyone to her with her never-ending optimism and enjoyment of life.  It makes her character appear as unrealistic - she is too super-sweet with too many talents for one person.<br />The interaction between the leads is excellent although they are at odds a lot of the time.  Just when we think Michael can get no meaner, Abbey begins to stand up for herself and he begins to reluctantly respect her and more reluctantly finds he is strongly drawn to her.  Yes, love develops even in this big mess of an enforced marriage.  However, I beganto get uncomfortable about halfway through the book.  I saw all of the signs of The Big Misunderstanding lining up and dreaded it.  This was the second complaint that I mentioned earlier.  The Big Misunderstanding was very, very big and it took a lot of the pages for it to be resolved.  However, this book does deserve it's five star rating because London does a wonderful job of writing this portion of the book.  I was caught by surprise, more than once, as the events unfolded.  Although I was able to sense the upcoming misunderstanding, I was not able at all to guess how it would eventually be solved.  The story is vastly entertaining.  I eagerly consumed each page and every time I had to put it down - I enthusiastically resumed reading.<br />You will find this love story at times heartbreaking and at other times exciting and fresh.  You will want Michael to get his comeuppance more than once as well.  The chemistry between the leads certainly is vibrant and warms the pages.  The actual sensual scenes, although fairly frequent, are somewhat tame and rate about a 3.0 to a 3.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines). <br />The Devil's Love is the first in a series followed by Wicked Angel.  I read Wicked Angel first and although I probably would have preferred only slightly to read them in order, they are truly stand-alone books.  I loved each book on it's own merits although I could have picked up on a few situations a little more quickly in Wicked Angel if I had read The Devil's Love first.  However, in order or not, this is a great two book series that I wholeheartedly recommend.	2003-07-19
US	51730223	R2HLGA28NMR0YU	0380767635	899831517	Where the Heart Is	Books	4	26	26	N	N	Mature & tender contemporary romance that touches your heart	Where the Heart Is - is a very sweet love story that is straightforward without game playing and deception.  It is a contemporary romance about a man who meets a woman and realizes within 24 hours that she is the one woman he has looked for all his life.  She is very taken with him as well but has certain reservations that make her want to keep him from getting too close.  However, all of their interaction is genuine and mutual consideration, care, and honesty envelops each page.  This is a story about two people - almost exclusively.  It is a really romantic tale.<br />Cam Remington, a geologist, engineer, and owner of a resource company that does work world wide, is back in Los Angeles from his business travels when he meets Shelley Wilde.  Shelley is a creator of temporary interior housing designs for the rich rental properties on the West Coast.  In a refreshing departure from typical romance beginnings, Cam and Shelley meet in those first pages with the help of Cam's nephew, a lonely boy of 12, and his pet boa constrictor.  Within those first few pages, Cam also has the opportunity to view the beauty of Shelley's best all time creation, her home.  Cam is a man with extraordinary perception and senses Shelley's true nature as he observes her work, her home, and her interactions with his nephew and the boa.<br />In the beginning, Cam comes on strong sexually to Shelley.  It doesn't take long for him to realize that he cannot proceed in that manner with her and hope to see her again.  She is rather prim and proper compared to Cam and does not even consider casual sex as a possibility in her life.  Basically, the outline of this story gives us a very mature and wise hero (despite his early come-on attempts) and a kind and gentle woman who has built a rigid life and home to protect her from the world.  Cam is truly wiser and much more perceptive than Shelley.  He identifies her deeper, true needs that she tries so hard to hide.  His pursuit of their relationship andher slow opening to him are the heart of this story and there are many precious scenes to savor as their relationship develops.<br />This is a Lowell book that was previously published years ago as Traveling Man.  She has re-written that book into Where the Heart Is.  Although the new title is certainly descriptive of the entire intent of the lesson of this book, the term -traveling man - is used again and again and describes the biggest hurdle Cam must clear to have Shelley as he wants.  She wants a home and has built her perfect home.  After traveling her entire childhood all over the world with her parents, she desperately wants the pleasures of one home in one place - unchanging.  Cam is a traveling man who believes home is with the one you love - wherever that may be - all over the world.  Shelley unsuccessfully attempts to turn Cam away again and again because he is a traveling man.  She doesn't want a husband who must continually travel.  Cam recognizes her real reasons for pulling away from him and will not allow it.  It is a tender story of pursuit and capture - all truly done in the name of love.  There are a few sensual scenes that rate about a 3.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />Although this is not a book for my keeper shelf, it is a story I truly enjoyed.  I read it easily within a day.  It is only 336 pages long and although it tackles some very heavy issues in life, it is not nearly as deep as many other  romance novels that I have read.  But if you are looking for a feel-good light read, I highly recommend Where the Heart Is.  You will love both the leads.	2003-07-19
US	51730223	R6ZFVAN3J0855	0553583565	40003658	Stealing Heaven (Medievals)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A magnificent medieval sexy romance	This was an absolutely splendid book in more ways than one.  It is my third Madeline Hunter book and I have given each the highest rating possible.  Stealing Heaven seemed better than the rest but it has been a while since I have read a Hunter book and why?  I have not a clue.  I so love her writing and now will eagerly proceed through her unfortunately short backlist.<br />Marcus of Anglemore is a knight of King Edward during the 1300s.  His former home and lands have been restored to him and now the king has arranged a marriage that will further unite the Welsh and English and provide Marcus with more power and land through his new wife.  By Design, the prequel to this story provides the background here and it is when we are first introduced to Marcus as a young boy.<br />Marcus has proven himself a valiant knight worthy of the king's favor and is all that most medieval heroes are - handsome, available, alpha, smart, highly trained in battle, extremely perceptive, and very sexy.  On top of all those characteristics he is more than the average medieval hero in that he is very sensitive, understanding, and caring when it comes to the woman he cherishes.  In fact, his understanding of the heroine's treasonous dedication to the Welsh cause is one of the most outstanding aspects of this book.  I have not ever seen such tolerance and empathy from an alpha hero before and it in no way makes him seem less of a man - only much more the fantastic hero.<br />Nesta, the heroine, is the oldest daughter of a rebel Welsh chieftain, Llygad, who is deceased.  She has been previously married to a Scot and is referred to as the king's whore.  This description of her as the king's whore kept me from reading this book for months.  I could not imagine an endearing tale about a king's whore.  But - please do not let that stop you.  While the validity of that rumor is not known for most of the book, it does not lessen the vitality of this captivating story.<br />Marcus is to marry Nesta's younger sister.  It is not an alliance he is anticipating with any favor.  One night he slips into the garden of his future wife to determine the reason he has been denied an introduction to her.  For weeks, she has been reportedly ill but Marcus correctly suspects that it is only a ruse.  Once in the garden, he spots Nesta, a beautiful alluring woman, and assumes she is his bride-to-be. That garden meeting is the very beginning pages of Stealing Heaven and it starts the book off with a bang!  Their attraction to each other is so immediate and downright chemical that it flies off the page.  When Marcus discovers that Nesta is not to be his bride, he can barely contain his ire.  From this point, the book just gathers steam, getting better and more fascinating with every single page.<br />Although there are some interesting secondary characters, this story is primarily about Marcus and Nesta.  It reaches the level of truly great romance.  There are many, many pages devoted to their relationship - making the growth of their love only more real to the reader.  When rating a romance book, one of my primary requirements for a high rating is the time dedicated to the development of the romance.  This book certainly rates five stars in that aspect.  The sensual scenes are some of the best I have read.  I had not remembered Hunter writing such sexy scenes in her two previous books I had devoured.  They are powerful - not distasteful - and rate about a 4.0 to a 4.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />Stealing Heaven is a wondrous tale that I could hardly put down.  I relished each page and felt that Hunter's writing was truly unique.  I cannot recommend this book highly enough.  It is part of a series of which I have been unable to establish the order precisely.  This is my best guess at the order of the series: By Possession, By Design, Stealing Heaven, and By Arrangement.  I have not read them in order and they can be easily relished as stand-alonebooks.  However, Hunter is better than average when it comes to writing sequels involving characters from other books.  If you can read them in order, you will be in for an additional treat.	2003-07-17
US	51730223	R2UKPSR7K5WYL9	0060518642	641921275	Prisoner of My Desire	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Stark yet entrancing - a sensual medieval tale	This is the second time I have read Prisoner of Desire and it was as much fun to read as eighteen months ago.  I did not write reviews then but could still remember the plot lines well which is unusual because I have read at least 300 books since then.  This book was written during an era of romance writing that portrayed aggressive heroes who indulged in a single or occasional scene of non-consensual sex.  This book definitely falls into that category but it is very different in that both the alpha hero and innocent heroine take their turn as the aggressor of these scenes.  I picked it up knowing it contained some of those scenes but remembered, aside from all of that, is was a fun, not-to-be-put-down type of book.  It takes you from sadness to laughter repeatedly and cruelty to kindness more than once.<br />It's 1152 in England, and Rowena Belleme has been forced into a marriage with a very elderly man by the machinations of her greedy stepbrother, Gilbert.  Although Rowena owns lands that have long been in her family, Gilbert controls all of her properties and wants Rowena to marry a wealthy lord and thereby increase her holdings.  Gilbert wants the additional lands but NEEDS the additional fighting men the alliance will provide.  A formidable, powerful, vastly wealthy and certainly vengeful warlord is fighting Gilbert on many fronts.  This lord and formidable knight is none other than the hero, Warrick deChaville.  Warrick is only fighting Gilbert in retribution for his attempted seizure of one of Warrick's holdings.  And one thing Warrick does very well is exact \\"utter destruction on anyone so unwise as to encroach on what was his.\\"<br />Rowena, a spirited, young, and truly innocent woman, must participate in Gilbert's awful schemes because he holds her mother's life in his hands and will beat her or even kill her if Rowena refuses.  Gilbert places one condition upon her marriage to the decrepit lord - she must produce an heir.  None of his holdings will transfer to Rowena upon his death without an heir.  When the old man is unable to produce an heir, Gilbert's men capture a younger man in a bathhouse who possesses similar physical features to Rowena's husband.  They are to take a serf or villein - certainly no one of nobility.  But it is a bathhouse and their chosen prey, Warrick deChaville, is not wearing any trappings of nobility or wealth.  Gilbert does not realize the horrible mistake he has just made and chains Warrick in a bedchamber and commands Rowena to use him to produce an heir.<br />And oh --- that's just the beginning pages of the book.  Things only get more and more involved, spiraling deeper and deeper as you consume the pages with greater and greater speed.  Although there are a few predictable situations of typical romance writing, this story is rather unusual in that you do not know what to expect next.  Just when I had figured out what I thought would happen next, it didn't.<br />Warrick is an unforgiving and hard hero.  Rowena is a subjugated and overpowered heroine first by Gilbert and then by Warrick.  But slowly her spunk begins to show.  And the pages just get more enjoyable as Rowena begins to stand up for herself.  It's a delicate undertaking to confront her captor without totally alienating him.  She is in no way bratty or self centered.  Her actions are always those of a true lady and she is ruled by kindness.  She is a very lovable heroine and Warrick eventually becomes a likable guy - but it takes a while for him to get there.<br />Another interesting aspect of this book is the unusual villain, Gilbert.  Although he is dastardly as expected, he has a soft spot in his heart for Rowena.  You actually find yourself pitying him more than hating him because he doesn't seem to know better.  He is quite nice compared to his really, really awful father.  He loves Rowena but has no idea how to show it.  He is actually crushed when Rowena rejects him after he has beaten her mother to force her to do as he wishes.  His father, after all, had beat her mother all the time, so what is so bad about him doing the same?  Geeesh!  But yet you do find him somewhat of a sympathetic character - errr - villain.<br />There is no way to avoid the sensual nature of this book.  It is intricately woven into most of the story.  However, this book, in no way, is centered on the sexual scenes.  This is an excellent and at times severe story that demands it be told - first and foremost.  It is also one romance novel that is aptly named - Prisoner of My Desire.  It is literal in more ways than one.  The sensual scenes, while not as explicit as you would find in a book of this nature today, are still strong.  These scenes rate a solid 4.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />Prisoner of My Desire is one of several Lindsey earlier romance novels on my keeper shelf.  Although the story line is sometimes harsh, it is totally captivating as long as you are prepared for it.  Gird yourself up for one fascinating read.	2003-07-15
US	51730223	R255KY3D0W0GU2	0380803291	621411175	A Rogue in Texas (Rogues in Texas)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Tender and moving Texas historical	In Lorraine Heath, I have discovered a new author of gentle romances.  A Rogue in Texas is a very tender story with very real characters and morals!  The setting is historical Texas, after the Civil War, on a cotton farm.  This is a time of endurance for widows (due to the war) with really hard work and families to raise and support.  A group of women have hired some Englishmen to help them harvest their cotton.  These men are, more correctly, English rogues whose fathers believed they needed a lesson in life and have been lured to America for great moneymaking opportunities.  Never did these rogues imagine that those opportunities would have them picking cotton! <br />Grayson Rhodes is the very cool bastard son of an English nobleman.  Grayson perceives that he has never received love in any form.  His dissolute ways and numerous affairs with married women have earned him a reputation as a rogue.  His ways have also convinced himself that he is of little value.  He is, however, a man with very good friends and possesses a tender heart and a great sense of humor.  Never, do we see Grayson as anything less than a wonderful hero.  Upon reaching the cotton fields of Texas, Grayson is assigned to work with a widow, Abbie, who has three children.<br />Abbie Westland married, at sixteen, a man who needed a partner for his farm - certainly not a woman to love.  She has never known love from a man and her children range in age from six to eight.  Her husband died in the Civil War two years previously and she has worked non-stop in attempting to earn a living growing cotton with no help other than her children and neighbors.  She is rather cynical at the beginning of the story.  She doesn't see herself as the beautiful woman she is.  She is extremely moved when this disreputable but very handsome man from England, who lives in her barn, begins giving her children very special attention.  Grayson is touched by the Westland children and reaches out to them naturally.  He definitely has a special way with children and this strongly draws Abbie to him.  The children's own father never gave them any time or consideration.  And we, as women, know that if a man sincerely cares for our children, he holds a place of great respect in our hearts.<br />Grayson is drawn to Abbie but does not plan to stay past the cotton-picking season.  As she treats him with kindness and respect, Grayson begins to believe he may be worthy of a woman's love.  Their gentle romance is very stirring.  His humor, laced with his sincerity is an irresistible combination.  Abbie's discovery of a man's love combined with her inhibitions concerning her sexuality draw a picture of precious vulnerability.  The sensual scenes are few and rate about a 3.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  They add tenderness and depth to the story but are just a very small part of this love relationship.<br />The children significantly enhance this story line.  Heath has great talent in creating memorable characters.  You will like both Grayson and Abbie.  Then comes a plot twist - but not one you have probably read before.  Since this is romance writing, I figured it would be all right in the end.  However, along the way to that ending were some of the most poignant scenes I have read.  I heartily recommend A Rogue in Texas.  It is the first in a series followed by Never Love a Cowboy and Never Marry a Cowboy.  Those two sequels portray the story of two of Grayson's English friends who accompanied him on his moneymaking trip to Texas.  I have already purchased those books and am really looking forward to each adventure.	2003-07-11
US	51730223	R1Q427DJ9C6CI9	0380802309	753418941	Someone to Watch Over Me (Bow Street, Book 1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great romance and super sexy hero!	I have loved all of the books so far in Kleypas's Bow Street Runner series. Although this is the first book in the series, I read the third book, Worth Any Price, first and the second book, Lady Sophia's Lover, second. I think it would be more enjoyable if you could read the series in order but it did not lessen the overall appeal of any of the books. I still savored every one of them and believe they can all be stand-alone reads.<br />Grant Morgan is an infamous Bow Street Runner and reaps great financial benefit from it and his private investigations. He is celebrated as a true hero as his cases are written into very popular penny novels. Grant is a really tough guy with bad childhood memories that haunt him and the ever-present determination to never marry and certainly not believe in such a thing as love. As is often the case with Kleypas's books, Grant is not a member of the ton and has no desire to even be accepted by high society. He first meets Vivien, the heroine, at a ball where she is looking for a new provider. She is a member of the demimonde and known for her beauty and her heartlessness. Grant is attracted to Vivien until he gets a chance to visit with her personally and determines that she is as heartless as rumored. He rejects her further advances and Vivien, true to her unkind nature, circulates the rumor that She has rejected Him. She also tells all that will listen that Grant was very upset by her rejection. Grant is irritated by these lies but cares little for his reputation and pays little heed to the gossip.<br />One night, while on duty, he is called out to the scene of an attempted murder by drowning of an unknown woman. Grant recognizes the attempted murder victim as Vivien and brings her to his home to recover. Once he determines that she has lost her memory, he decides to exact his revenge on Vivien by using her and then rejecting her. He does not feel sorry for her in the least and is given quite a few pages to show us how much of a heartless guy he can be.<br />Vivien is very frightened at her loss of memory and is horrified when she discovers that she was a member of the demimonde and is known for her cruel nature. Even Grant soon becomes uncomfortable with the situation as Vivien behaves with only kindness and consideration and there is no sign of her former hateful demeanor. Thus the stage is set for this intriguing romance.<br />Someone to Watch Over Me is a book with a driving plot that does not drag for a single page. It is fascinating as we watch Grant gradually evolve from the famous street hardened and cynical Bow Runner to a man of compassion and love. Of course, Grant is not as hard as he would like to believe. He is very well respected and liked by his co-workers and friends. Vivien, on the other hand, seems to have no friends or family that care enough to look for her. Watching these two grow closer and discover their feelings for one another is fun and captivating reading. Kleypas always provides her leads plenty of time to develop their relationship and it allows us to savor these many special times. We also do not have to endure any silly misunderstanding or lies. There are a few sensual scenes that spice up the book and rate about a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines). Kleypas is good at writing these scenes and they only add to the overall appeal of the book.<br />This is certainly a book for my keeper shelf. I have yet to read a Kleypas book that was not enjoyable. I ration her books carefully, allowing myself one about every month or two as I gradually work through her backlist. Take time and read this series. The order is Somebody to Watch Over Me, Lady Sophia's Love, and Worth Any Price. I have written a review on each of these books. I believe that Kleypas is still writing this series and hopefully we will see another one soon. Believe me - I will be buying it as soon as it is published.	2003-07-10
US	51730223	RX5OYHYLP7ALG	0312970021	79914577	Night Secrets	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sea captain, aka earl, invalid, conqueror,who finally loves	I love Kat Martin books but had not read one in a long time.  She knows how to write a delicious romance that keeps your interest from the first page to the last.  Her heroes are sexy and her heroines are always likable.  Martin fleshes out her characters and we see them with all their good and bad characteristics.<br />Brandy Winters is a serving girl in her father's tavern in historical Charleston.  She is a young heroine who wants to see the world.  For years, her occupation as a serving wench has allowed her to establish many friendships with sailors as they sail in to port and back out, month after month and year after year.  One of those sailors is English Captain Marcus Delaine who is also the Earl of Hawksmoor.  Brandy has admired and probably loved Marcus from afar for many years and Marcus has watched Brandy grow into a very attractive young lady.  He rescues her from a tavern patron one night and Brandy's admiration for Marcus grows.  When Marcus informs her that his crew is taking a month long voyage before returning to England, Brandy decides to stow away on Marcus's ship for the short voyage.  She reasons that it will allow her to see some of the world and, knowing Marcus, she does not think he will mistreat her once her presence on his ship is discovered.  When she is found, sick and half dead, Marcus is not as kind as Brandy had hoped.  He is extremely angry with her and discovers that she is not easily intimidated.<BR> <BR>Night Secrets takes place in Charleston, on the seas, England, and on the seas again and again.  Although I really enjoyed this book, it was a little too much in the fairy tale category for believability.  It is about the romance of a English titled sea captain and a serving girl across the sea.  Although Brandy proves to be a spirited, determined young woman who is also extremely beautiful, the reach to obtain the love of an earl seems too far.  However, Kat Martin knows how to make us believe in fairy tales and this improbable romance seems to fit just fine by the end of the book.<br />Marcus is a man of the sea and has no intention to ever be anywhere else.  He has no desire to fulfill his duties as Earl of Hawksmoor and believes he will never marry because the sea is his ideal mistress.  Yes, he loves women but not enough to keep him on land.  When an accident at sea leaves Marcus disabled, the book takes a sudden turn and we see a formerly proud, self-assured man become bitter - hating life.<br />The relationship between Marcus and Brandy is a love relationship that Marcus refused to acknowledge when he was healthy and certainly denies now that he is incapacitated.  Brandy's spunk and bravery throughout the book endears her to our hearts.  At the same time, Marcus is too hard headed for words and can be quite aggravating.  The interaction between the two is quite entertaining but somewhat predictable.  Of course, this is romance writing and we must suffer through Brandy's inevitable hurt and wait for Marcus to obtain some wisdom.  The sensual scenes are infrequent and rate about a 3.0 to a 3.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />This is a book about an unlikely romance, loss of hope, recovery, and growth.  Although it is not a book that will sit on my keeper shelf, it was very engaging.  I have read seven Kat Martin books and have adored each one.  I will choose another of her books to read soon and know that I will be guaranteed another fascinating story.	2003-07-10
US	51730223	R1DHUGVOT9OSRN	0380757478	282925652	Fires of Winter (Haardrad Family)	Books	5	28	35	N	N	One of the very best Viking romances	I first read Fires of Winter about eighteen months ago and remembered a powerful and highly alluring storyline.  Last week, I decided to read it again and found it was even better than I remembered.<br />I have discovered, as I read through the backlists of many authors, that most romance writing today is very different from the romances of the 1980s.  I often find that the formula romances written during that time frame can be very trying to read.  But I have also learned that some of the very best gems of romance writing were written during the 1980s.  Of all the hundreds of romance books I have read, my top five favorite books include at least three from this 1980s period.  I love a story with rich historical detail that concentrates primarily on the hero and heroine.  Length of the story (longer than 350 pages), unusual plot lines, and depth of characters are extremely important.  Fires of Winter is one such novel that fits all of these criteria as well as just being a downright delicious read.  I consider Johanna Lindsey to be one of the best authors of these sweeping historical novels during this period although I have read a couple of hers that I would consider some of the worst.  <br />Garrick Haardrad is a Viking who makes his living through trading overseas.  He is the younger son of a Viking chieftain, Anselm the Eager.  Unknown to Garrick, his father, Anselm, had promised his hand in marriage to a Celtic lord's daughter.  When Anselm arrives in England to supposedly collect his younger son's future bride, he instead attacks the Celtic settlement.  The marriage betrothal was merely a trick to allow the Viking raiders easy entrance to the Celtic settlement.  Not only does Anselm and his warriors kill the majority of people and steal all that can be stolen, he also takes with him seven captives who will become slaves once they reach Norway.<br />Lady Brenna is the Celtic lord's daughter that had been promised in marriage, unwillingly, to the Viking chieftain's son.  She is one of the seven captives taken back to the Vikings' homeland of Norway.  Brenna is a very independent woman and has always been treated like a son rather than a daughter by her father.  She is very adept at warrior skills such as wielding a sword, archery, and defending herself with a knife.  When Anselm and his warriors attack Lady Brenna's home, she fights the Vikings just like a man.  She is a very uncooperative captive and is considered dangerous if not a little mad.  Brenna refuses to accept her new role in life - that of a slave.  Anselm discovers he actually respects Lady Brenna and decides to give her to his son, Garrick.  Brenna is extremely bitter towards Anselm and cannot bear the thought that she will be Garrick's slave rather than his wife.<br />Brenna's behavior is my main complaint about Fires of Winter.  She was always angry.  There are few pages in which she is NOT angry.  This behavior actually makes Brenna appear immature.  But, to give her character due credit, I will admit that she was dealing with one of the hardest heroes I have ever read.  Garrick could be just down right mean and he was - many more times than once.  Lindsey can write some of the meanest heroes that we still find a way to accept wholeheartedly.  Part of the intrigue of Lindsey's heroes is the change they undergo.  So, although we see Garrick as unkind, we also see him evolve to a hero you will love.<br />Usually, I don't appreciate a great deal of fighting as occurs between Garrick and Brenna.  It was, however, a really outstanding battle of the wills.  I found that I relished this battle of wills because both characters are so well written.  They both clearly have their strengths and weaknesses and Lindsey lets us see them as the imperfect people they are and it only adds to the overall appeal of the story.  The sensual scenes rate about a 3.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  Although Lindsey does not write these scenes in explicit detail, they are still highly sexual.  Be warned - these scenes are both consensual and non-consensual.  At times, women are not treated with much respect in this book.  This story takes place during the Viking era and I actually think this mistreatment of women is true to the time period.  <br />This book had extreme highs and lows and was a fascinating read.  There are few books that I find hard to put down but Fires of Winter was definitely in that category.  I like to savor the really, really good books and make the reading last.  But I found myself making excuses to read the next chapter and then the next.  Fires of Winter is probably one my favorite top ten books.  This is a book that is about the leads and it is very satisfying.  I will soon choose another Lindsey book from her backlist and hope to find yet another jewel.	2003-07-10
US	51730223	R21U7N8AB4FSEZ	1585868329	122627372	Royal Seduction	Books	5	31	34	N	N	An aggressive hero determined to get what he needs	Royal Seduction is one of my all time five favorite books.  It's odd that such an old romance (my research indicates this book was first published in 1983 under the name of Patricia Maxwell) should catch my interest so intensely.  But some of Jennifer Blake's older romances are excellent - better than I see her publish today.<br />Prince Rolfe of Ruthenia (he has too many names to list) is one determined prince.  He is in the States searching for his dead brother's latest mistress.  Rolfe believes she knows who murdered his brother since she was present at the time of the former prince's assassination.  Rolfe brings with him five of his Royal Guard and their presence is most commanding.  Rolfe, himself, is hailed as the Golden Wolf; partly due to the royal insignia he wears bearing a wolf and his golden hair.  Rolfe is certainly a prince from fairy tales.  He is handsome, extremely self confident, very intelligent, amazingly physically fit and he carries his royalty graciously without thought.  He is also highly aggressive, resolute, and is tremendously domineering.  He will get that which he seeks and can be ruthless in the process.<br />Angeline Fortin lives with her aunt and cousin near New Orleans and does not relish high society.  Angeline is a beautiful, loyal, smart, sensible and assertive young woman.  She must rely on her aunt's charity for a place to live.  She bears a striking resemblance to her cousin Claire.  Claire is the missing mistress of the former Prince of Ruthenia<br />This book captures you immediately.  By page five you are hooked into the storyline and by page nine sparks between Rolfe and Angeline are flying off the pages as they first meet at a soiree one evening.  He has immediately, upon arriving, seen Angeline and believes her to be Claire.  When Angeline insists she is not, Rolfe assumes she is lying.  Later that evening, Rolfe and his guards locate and capture Angeline.  She is taken to the prince's temporary quarters, a lodge in the country.  Rolfe sequesters her in his bedroom and begins to interrogate her.  He refuses to believe that Angeline is not Claire.  Claire's reputation implies that she would be a willing bed partner.  Assuming that Angeline is Claire, Rolfe ruthlessly seduces her and discovers he has, in fact, made a great error.  Angeline is a virgin.  Some readers may take this seduction as rape.  I did.  But don't let that affect your opinion of this book prematurely.  This aggressive nature, seen within the first 60 pages, is not the tone of the entire book.  Rolfe definitely regrets what he has done to Angeline but that doesn't mean he becomes less forceful.  He is sure she knows her cousin's hiding place.  He continues to hold her captive.<br />Although this book begins in an aggressive mode, the story that follows is very involved and so heart rending that you soon forget the beginning pages as anything other than powerful and somewhat savory.  Rolfe is uncompromising, type A to the extreme, and is unforgettable in soul and body.  Angeline is delightful although a little dense.  She is not mean or spiteful and yet she stands up to Rolfe and is assertive in many ways.  She never expects that she will ever be more than Rolfe's mistress.  She interprets his words or actions towards her as \\"for the moment\\" and doesn't expect a future with him.<br />Royal Seduction is written entirely from the heroine's point of view.  Although we never know the hero's thoughts, he spoke his mind so clearly that you had little doubt what he thought or felt.  I am certain that Rolfe felt a lot more for Angeline than she allowed herself to believe.  We clearly see Rolfe's inner turmoil although we do not have the privilege of reading his thoughts.  This is a very sensual book.  The actual sensual scenes could be rated no higher than a 3.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  These scenes are not written as explicitly as in many books today but they are still very sexy.  It is a truetestament that very sensual scenes and high sexual tension can be written without vulgarity or physical details.<br />Rolfe and Angeline spend a lot of time together during the first half of the book.  Then the action takes over.  Usually I resent time taken away from the leads for the sake of an alternate storyline.  But the subplot is so deep and awesome that it cannot be ignored.  The romance is so deeply entwined with the action that one is not complete without the other.  Although the last half of the book often finds the leads apart or only in the company of others, the sexual tension between them remains high.  We see their relationship mature.<br />Overall, I highly recommend Royal Seduction as a delightful read.  There are none of the old trappings of silly misunderstandings or false hate that seemed to be so prominent during the early eighties when this book was written.  This book is available in eBook format.  Once I read it in that format, I decided I wanted a hard copy for my keeper shelf and was able to obtain an old paperback copy online for a reasonable price.  I am now slowly making my way through Blake's backlist and occasionally find another jewel but none have caught my fancy as much as Royal Seduction.	2003-06-29
US	51730223	R3KUX4R1LWIKEW	0373484933	279978210	A Game Of Chance	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A hero you love to hate!	A Game of Chance is one of my favorite Howard books and is the last in her MacKenzie series.  I have read them all and they are all great fun and all of the heroes are irresistible alpha males.  They all tend to some orneriness and certainly believe the notion that love is not around the corner.  Some of the MacKenzie men are bigger stinkers than others.  I think we have the biggest stinker of them all with Chance MacKenzie from A Game of Chance.<br />Chance MacKenzie is some sort of super government agent, highly trained for underground missions.  He relishes his job and prefers to act alone despite the level of danger.  He is a typical Linda Howard hero - dominant big-time, handsome, smart, and has a big problem hidden from everyone.  This shameful problem is key to his lack of desire for a committed love relationship.  He doesn't seem to hold women in very high regard and has a ruthless personality.  Basically, he doesn't treat women very well and laughs at the thought of being close to one.<br />Sunny Miller is the daughter of a terrorist Chance is working hard to bring down.  He decides to use Sunny to bring her father out of hiding.  He suspects that Sunny is working for her father and that causes him to see her in even a more negative light than most women.  He manipulates Sunny's situation until she is in need of a private plane to reach her destination in time and Chance steps in to provide her with the plane and him, as the pilot.<br />Sunny is a kind, beautiful, and gracious heroine.  She has a job as a delivery agent, flying all over the United States and the world delivering highly sensitive material.  Sunny doesn't live anywhere really because she is always attempting to hide her whereabouts from her father.  She greatly fears her father and has been hiding from him for years by constantly working her delivery service.  She is never in one place for very long.<br />When transporting Sunny to her next location, Chance deliberately crashes their plane ona remote island and they must wait for someone to discover their crash site since all forms of communication were destroyed in the crash.  Chance plans on getting to know Sunny very well during their wait and find out her father's location.  He really pours on the charm and romances Sunny.  He wants to make her love him, trust him and share her secrets with him.  Now understand, Chance does all of this with no intentions whatsoever to love her in return or even see her beyond their island experience.  He is so heartless in his further manipulation of Sunny.  Never mind that she is almost mortally wounded in the plane crash.  Disregard the fear and worry that encompassed her as she wondered if they would be rescued.  Leave it to Chance that he would never disclose to her that he actually had a communication device and was constantly in touch with his contact on this operative.  Chance even controlled their rescue.  Once he had the information that he needed from Sunny, he would order their rescue.<br />As Chance uses Sunny as bait for her father he risks her life yet again.  He quickly pushes a physical relationship between them and he takes her again and again.  Of course, Sunny believes that this physical relationship with Chance is more than just physical.  She is strongly drawn to him and, after all, he has told her that he loved her.  All the while, we as readers know that Chance is only using her and we can't believe what a low life jerk he is.  A lot of the pleasure in this books comes from the anticipation of Chance receiving his comeuppance.  You can't wait for Sunny to strike back and give Chance some of his own medicine.  Chance truly seems a cold-blooded male and does not stoop to being kind to Sunny.  His mission is always utmost in his mind even when he begins to suspect that Sunny is not guilty of complicity with her father and discovers that she is running from him as well.<br />So - if I am so aggravated with Chance - why a five star rating?  It isbecause of Sunny.  She interacts so well with Chance and we discover that she is no weak character.  The dialogue between the leads is great and had me laughing many times.  Sunny showed up Chance in more ways than one.  She is a survivalist and Chance finds himself impressed with these skills.  After all, she has a lot of experience with living on the run.  But somehow, Chance's heartlessness, accompanied with Sunny's great heart, made this book a very good and engrossing read.  Once again, we are so eager to see Chance brought down.<br />The sensual scenes are frequent and rate a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  This is one of Howard's best writing of such scenes.  I don't relish sensual scenes in which there is no commitment but these were much different.  Sunny is committed to Chance and she believes he loves her.  And although Chance knows he is just pretending to love Sunny, we as the readers see him gradually, little by little, falling for her (hee! hee!) and know he will not be able to resist her in the end.<br />The order of the MacKenzie series is as follows: MacKenzie's Mountain, MacKenzie's Mission, MacKenzie's Pleasure, MacKenzie's Magic, and A Game of Chance.  I did not read these in series order and still enjoyed them immensely.  It would benefit you to know some of the characters in other books as you read each one, but it is not necessary.  These stories are scrumptious - no matter what.<br />I highly recommend A Game of Chance.  I really loved this book.  It is just down right fun!	2003-06-29
US	51730223	R2JR5LBY7IY70F	0671568841	781227321	All the Queen's Men	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Howard's best suspense tale	Romance Suspense is a category in romance writing that is becoming more and more popular.  I have been a reluctant reader of romance suspense because the action pages usually surpass the romance pages.  I often find that this romance suspense writing lacks over true suspense writing outside of the romance arena and have therefore been critical of it.  But I also decided to look at this increasingly popular category and read these books expecting the romance to be secondary to the action and determine if I could see the book in a better light.  And I picked All the Queen's Men with this new attitude.  This book has little romance and the leads spend at most one-third of the book alone together.  But it was a very good CIA type story regardless, full of dangerous thrills and tension, and I did not find it at all boring or lacking.  I knew from reviews that it was not as sensual a book as most Howard books.  I also had been introduced to the hero in the book Kill and Tell.  This is its sequel.  I knew I would like a story about John Medina.  Plus, after reading this book, I can safely say that this is the best Howard suspense book yet.  In my mind, All the Queen's Men is superior to Dying to Please and Mr. Perfect, two of Howard's other romance suspense books.  There have been many Howard books that I loved more than All the Queen's Men but those were considered contemporary romance and were primarily romance stories.<br />John Medina and Niemi Burdock first meet when they begin a joint mission five years earlier that included Niemi's husband, Dallas.  Dallas was killed on that mission and John was the one that got Niemi out of Iran safely and soothed her through the rough days that followed her husband's death.  For the past five years, Niemi has lived a secluded life and works at a technical job with the CIA.  She has not seen John during those five years but John has kept track of her - his CIA boss makes sure that all goes well for her at John's request.  He has always cared for her and finally decides she has had five years to find someone else to marry and since she hasn't, he is going to be the only man in her life from now on.  He believes she blames him for her husband's death and is greatly relieved when he finds out during their first visit after all these years that she does not blame him at all.  She actually blames herself.<br />John Medina does everything well - he is so well trained and is just so cool.  But he doesn't know much about personal relationships.  He has operated in the black for so many years with so many identities that he is unable to form long-term relationships.  Niemi has given up her sense of adventure after losing her husband and is a very sensible and serious person now.  She has kept physically fit and is a very capable woman.  She was always intimidated by John and doesn't believe he thinks all that much of her.  Both Niemi and John are very likable characters - possibly some of my favorites - especially Niemi.  She is a great heroine.  Of course, as usual, they are both very attractive people and that is important in this story since part of their future mission will rely on others noticing this attraction as well.<br />The first days that John and Niemi spend together when he is training her for their mission are precious but there is nothing overtly romantic between them.  I state that as a complaint.  The romantic possibilities were so great and the chemistry could have rocked the pages had the romance been given more exposure.  We are given so little time with just the two of them and even most of that time is concentrated within the pages prior to their realization of their mutual caring.  There are two or three sensual scenes that come close to the end and they rate about a 3.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  See - I still had to mourn to loss of the romance for the suspense.<br />The villain is certainly the most different one I have ever read.  No wonder it got the AAR's Favorite Villain Award the year it was published.  You actually like this villain and don't want him to get hurt.  Most of the villain's scenes show a man that is kind, respectful, and at times extremely  touching when those scenes are about or include his daughter.  The villain is actually a reason that I enjoyed this story as much as I did.<br />I really did enjoy All the Queen's Men despite its lack of romance.  What romance there is - is very powerful!  The story never dragged and I really liked all of the characters.  Howard was able to create some sort of magical element that made it a really good read just as it is.	2003-06-28
US	51730223	RTBOJ5OXEBRBY	0515134872	124681815	Bad Moon Rising	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Mostly suspense - little romance - but still tender story	This is a very serious story of recovery from life's greatest tragedies and making new starts.  It is a story of murder and<BR>prostitution, drugs and a mentally deranged killer.  It is a very well written book but make no mistake, it is a dark book.  Hope shines in the end but not before.  This is my second Katherine Sutcliffe book.  I had read Darkling, I Listen prior to Bad Moon Rising and consider Darkling a better book although it was a dark book as well.  Both of these novels tend to have a certain amount of grotesqueness and extreme evil.  I found the graphic description of killings in Bad Moon Rising too much for comfort but it is still within the framework of a tender story.<br />J.D. Damascus at one time was an infamous Assistant District Attorney in New Orleans with a great reputation as a prosecutor and roots of a powerful political family.  His father had been governor of Louisiana and his family is still immersed in politics.  J.D., however, is no longer an active part of that family.  He no longer is the powerful prosecutor and he has lost his own personal family.  A few years previously his wife and two children were violently murdered and J.D. has since lived in a cloud of alcohol, guilt, and regret.  He believes the wrong man was executed for his family's murders and still searches hopelessly for the real killer.  J.D. now barely makes ends meet with a law practice representing the less desirable clients of New Orleans.<br />Holly Jones is a reformed New Orleans prostitute now living a normal life in Branson, Missouri and has no desire to ever return to New Orleans.  She is one of the lucky ones and has been able to escape the horrors of her previous life.  Holly had left the city after a number of prostitutes were murdered.  She seems to know something that no one else knows and suspects the real killer was never apprehended although a man was executed for the murders.  When Holly receives a frantic call from one of her close friends still livingthe life of a prostitute in New Orleans, Holly worries that the real murderer has returned and fears for her friend's life and returns to find her.<br />J.D. meets Holly when he receives a call to represent her for shooting New Orleans's chief of police.  Holly had shot the chief in self-defense and J.D., knowing the chief's carnal weaknesses, threatens to expose him unless he drops the charges against Holly.  Once Holly is out of jail, she discovers her car is stolen which contains all of her possessions.  With no money and no place to go, J.D. invites her to his apartment for a temporary housing.  He rationalizes that he is helping her out but realizes that he is strongly attracted to her.<br />Clearly Holly is beautiful and irresistible enough for J.D. to consider her former life unimportant.  Or it could be that he honestly does not have a judgmental personality.  J.D. is truly attractive as the hero both in body and personality as long as he isn't drinking.  Holly is attracted to him as well but will not be seduced by him and will not entertain any thoughts that there could ever be anything real between the two of them.  As the reader, I had to agree with her thoughts.  Somehow, this romance does not ever seem real.  It is a thing of fairy tales and doesn't ring true.  We see very little of the leads together and certainly even a smaller percentage with them happy together and alone.  Those times are mostly just during the sensual scenes.  Those scenes rate about a 3.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  They are infrequent and since he is drunk a good part of the time and she is an ex-hooker, it is hard to envision this side of their relationship as meaningful.  Perhaps if the leads had been given more pages in the book to grow their relationship, it may have seemed real.<br />As Holly and J.D.'s circumstances grow worse daily, we are drawn deeper and deeper into their lives.  There are some surprises along the way.  This is not predictablewriting.  It is a fine suspense story and although the leads' romance seems too good to be true, it is a story of tenderness and healing.  It was not, however, a book that compelled me to keep reading to find out what happened next.  In my opinion, it was not an exceptional book - rather an average book.  But I do think it is worth your time to read Bad Moon Rising if you can accept the fact that the romance is actually secondary to several other aspects of the book.  I have previously written a review on Darkling I Listen should you desire a comparison of the two books.	2003-06-26
US	51730223	R1SY354S4NUZRV	0446611158	750342547	Slow Hands	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Slow Hands is okay but not great	This is my first book by Lauren Bach.  I realize that by not loving Slow Hands, I set myself apart from some very popular reviewers.  However, I saw nothing in the book that made it more than an average read.  It could be that I am unaccustomed to Bach's writing style.  The story does improve after the halfway point and therefore the book gets better once you work past the typical, overused romance lines and situations.  Although the book improves with reading, the writing is still totally predictable and the situations often unbelievable.  An example would be the female antagonist, Scarlett.  She is a far-fetched character as a small town woman who is an over-the-top witch and troublemaker for the leads' romance.  Anyone who was really that mean would not be accepted in small town society.  And the heroine, Keira, while very likable, has so many TSTL (to stupid to live) moments that I seriously doubted her intelligence.  Again and again she places her life at risk even after realizing someone not only wants to do her serious harm, but also wants her dead.<br />The FBI has borrowed Alec Dempsey, an agent with the ATF, for an assignment in his hometown of Freedom, Arkansas.  Alec is to provide undercover protection for Keira Morgan from convicted killer, Ian Griggs.  Griggs is being released years early from prison (too early for believability) as part of an FBI investigation.  Griggs had not only been involved in a major robbery but had been convicted six years earlier of murder as well.  Another of his crimes that he had never been tried for was the beating and attempted rape of Keira Morgan.  Alec reluctantly accepts the assignment sensing that something is strange about this investigation.  His primary reason for accepting the job, however, is his past ties to Keira.  Keira and Alec had been deeply involved in a love relationship and planned to marry ten years ago.  Suddenly, Alec left Freedom those ten years ago without a word to Keira, and the two have not communicated at all since then.  Alec is the standard contemporary romance hero.  He is handsome, extremely skilled at protecting others, very sexy, and doesn't believe he will ever marry and settle down.  Keira is the owner and successful operator of an electrical company.  She is a down to earth type of southern gal who has not been too interested in men and finds a lot of fulfillment with her friends, work, and her grandfather.  She loves Freedom and never wants to leave.  Keira doesn't want Alec back in town - especially close enough to her to provide protection.  She had been shattered at Alec's desertion all those years ago and wants him to stay far from her.  She cannot allow him to hurt her again.<BR>   <BR>Slow Hands would fall into the Romance Suspense category - one that is increasing in popularity.  It is not one of my favorite categories because the romance often takes back seat to the action.  I read romance writing for romance and mystery/suspense writing for a good mystery.  I have not seen many instances where both facets in Romance Suspense are written well.  This book does have more action pages than romance pages.  And although Keira falls into the \\"I don't like you but can't keep from having sex with you\\" situation over and over again, Alec and Keira's romance does have a magical quality to it.  We can see both of the leads maturing and becoming more tender and understanding of each other.  This is one book where the sensual scenes were one of the best parts of the book without being gratuitous.  These scenes rate about a 4.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  They are rather explicit for romance writing.<br />Slow Hands had the potential to be a very good story.  However, there were just too many misunderstandings and lies for me to truly enjoy it. I felt like I read one cardboard scene after another.  The ending did have somewhat of a surprise element to it.  Maybe I wasn't paying good enough attention but the villain did catchme unaware.  I cannot recommend that you not read this book.  It has some very good pages.  Just don't expect unusual characters or deep emotions.  It is not a light-hearted book but is not a deep book either.	2003-06-25
US	51730223	R3DGDIAZTLXFNH	0380819066	595146467	The Bad Man's Bride: Marrying Miss Bright	Books	4	12	12	N	N	He's not a bad man!	Anthea Bright has relocated to Haven, Kansas from the east to take a position as the small town's schoolteacher. She has fine polish that states she has grown up with money and manners. Her ways are gentle and yet she must be strong and strict to handle this bunch of midwestern children. Gabriel Jackson comes to the school one day to confront this new teacher that is obviously not qualified as such and finds that she is a lot more resilient than he would have guessed. As Gabriel begins to complain to Anthea about what his daughter should be taught, he discovers she has a fierce passion for her teaching and her students and he best not second-guess her.<br />The Bad Man's Bride was a satisfying read. It was a pleasing narrative and the leads are unique, likable and captivating characters. The story's pace faltered about halfway through the book and that is really the main reason for the four star rating rather than a five star. Although I enjoyed this story, I was not compelled to keep reading because it was a book that fascinated me. It didn't fall into that \\"couldn't put down\\" category. It was just a good, tame read.<br />The hero, Gabriel, although supposedly this bad man (thus the title), brings a bastard child, a nine year old girl into his house to raise as his own, when her mother, a prostitute, dies. This child is not Gabriel's. He was raised as a bastard himself and wants to protect this little girl who has no one to take care of her. He lets everyone assume it is his child who he has neglected for years until the mother died. This child is very dear and fragile. She adds so much to this story. Children in a romance novel usually don't add much to the story but this one does.<br />The sweet, proper heroine is not a virgin! She isn't the victim of some awful rape either. And it makes no difference to the hero. Their relationship does not fall into the same old romantic plot lines. Gabriel and Anthea get along very well and do not pick on each other or have disagreements. They both have some unspoken doubts concerning their relationship but these doubts were actually normal. They made sense under the circumstances. I guess I am saying that the book was actually believable all the way through!<br />This book is about the romance between Gabriel and Anthea. It has a couple of side plots that take up few pages. I love it when a romance novel is about a romance. Gabriel and Anthea are the primary focus of this tale and they spend a lot of time together. If you have read many of my reviews, you know that this is a really important facet to me about a romance novel. I want to see the romance relationship mature. I want to read pages of Gabriel and Anthea interacting. I was certainly not disappointed on that point.<br />The sensual scenes rate about a four out of five (see More About Me for rating guidelines). These scenes appear after the first half and really enhance the story line. You see genuine feelings developing between these two and there is depth to their relationship almost from the beginning. I do have to agree with one reviewer about the name of the book. The Bad Man's Bride is not really a representative title. The heroine could not be described as a bride for a good portion of the story. And, in my opinion, this man does not have the history to be considered a \\"bad man\\" by the town and doesn't behave like a \\"bad man\\" currently.<br />This is my first book to read by Susan Kay Law. I certainly look forward to working my way through her backlist.	2003-06-12
US	51730223	R3R88UKC1RGYVZ	0425184692	235273732	The Seduction	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Ignore the lace & seduction - look at the man!	The Seduction was such poignant writing!  The first half of the book, which includes the one week seduction attempt from whence the title came, is a slow, nice read that suddenly changes tempo and becomes a fast paced, intriguing, can't-put-it-down book.  Even the hero and heroine's characters begin to change as we experience each of their personalities rounding out to face new situations.  During the first portion of the book, I liked neither of the leads very well.  By the end, I thought they were both fantastic individuals.<br />Alden Granville-Strachen, the Viscount Gracechurch, is the hero of The Seduction.  In the beginning, he seems a foolish sort of man.  He has just lost all he owns in a game of cards to Lord Edward.  Although he is a famous rake and gambler, he also is a viscount that has many obligations to his land tenants and his family.  He cannot believe that he has lost it all and, in silent desperation, agrees to one final wager to win his property back.  If he wins this final wager, not only will his property be returned, but he will also receive an additional 5,000 pounds.  Should Alden lose this wager, his risk is that Lord Edward will add an unknown boon to Alden's loss.  The wager: seduce a lovely young widow within one week and deliver her locket as proof of the win to Lord Edward.  He names Juliet Seaton as the woman Alden must seduce.  Alden travels to Juliet's small hometown and the seduction begins.<br />At this point in the book, I was not too taken with the hero.  Not only has he gambled his home and other holdings away, he is now set to seduce an obviously private, proper widow.  Alden is legendary for his way with the ladies and loves his lifestyle as a rake and lover of women.  He has never been turned down by a lady and actually does not have to seduce the majority of the women he wants.  They want Alden - after all, he is very handsome and what in today's words, we would call \\"very cool.\\"<br />Juliet Seaton is an intelligent woman who leads a very secluded and peaceful life.  Her upbringing as a lady is obvious yet she must work hard to make ends meet and is not bitter at all about her humble circumstances.  When Alden shows up in her garden with a bee sting, she is suspicious and openly questions his reasons for being at her home.<br />Alden is not acquainted with the notion that a lady would actually refuse his advances.  We see Juliet as very wise as she guards her heart and her body from such a man as Alden.  He begins the seduction almost immediately after meeting her in her garden and openly admits that he wants her and informs her that he believes she will be his.  In Alden's eyes, what could a short affair with no commitment hurt?  After all, she is a widow.  An affair between the two would certainly be an enjoyable pastime.  Why not indulge and then say farewell?  Alden has not a clue at the implied insults he dishes out to Juliet as he makes his advances.  He was still, at this time, not warming himself further to my heart.  I'll give him credit for one thing; he was truthful about his intentions although he was not truthful about his reasons for this attempted seduction.<br />Juliet is highly suspect of any reasons Alden gives her for his temporary presence in her very small town.  She is tolerant, at best, of Alden's presence and actually hateful (or at least unkind) to him most of the time.  This is the portion of the book that dragged for me somewhat.  Gradually we understand that Juliet has very good reasons to object to any man's presence in her life and we begin to see hints of Alden's true underlying character.  He is actually a kind man and has some honor to him. But Alden continues his seduction, attempting to work his way into Juliet's daily routine although she is objecting at every turn and knows his game.  <BR> <BR>As mentioned earlier, when the seduction period ends, the book swiftly changes pace and content.  We are swept into a deep plot and find not one boring page.Ross's writing is so superb that we get lost in the story and the emerging characters of Alden and Juliet.  Soon, we absolutely love Alden as we see him display true honor again and again and understand that he no longer desires his past rakish lifestyle.  The interaction between the leads is deep and although a couple of misunderstandings occur to spur the plot along, these are quickly resolved. The sensuality in this book is a four out of five (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  This author does not depend on these scenes to carry much of the book.<BR>   <BR>Alden rescues Juliet from a very dire situation (I was actually shocked at this horrible situation).  Then we start to see the love developing between the leads as their relationship takes root.  The love between Alden and Juliet is beautiful and we just love Alden more and more.  He is such a darling man, really - no false pride and no problems with self-image.  Although he fastidiously plots deathly revenge against Sir Edward, he still does not exhibit the dominant type A personality we usually see in these lead roles.  He is genuinely funny, knows how to express his feelings and thoughts without lies, and kids about his own weaknesses.  This only makes him appear as even a stronger character.  Again, this man does not have a problem with self-image!<br />I will comment on one item that I had seen mentioned in more than one Amazon review.  Alden wears all of this lace and it is profusely described over and over again.  I could have done without this although I realize it was high style at the time.  This story occurs in the late 1700s and that is a hard time to envision attractive clothing because it all seem atrocious to me.  Also, all of his bows (which I also realize were true to this time period) and his use of his very lacy handkerchief were a little too much.  But I just made my mind block out these images.  They were not conducive to the success or enjoyment of this book.<br />But - all in all - this was a fantastic read.  Please remember, if the first half of this book drags a little for you just hold on.  This book gets better and better with each page.  This is a book for my keeper shelf.  It is my first Julia Ross book.  She is a very interesting new author that I will eagerly read again.	2003-06-12
US	51730223	R28GDZWD594HKP	0380811073	751978069	Worth Any Price (Bow Street, Book 3)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Boy, this is romance writing at it's best!	Kleypas has become a reliable author in my book because she repeatedly delivers one great story after another. She provides romance readers with unusual storylines and unique characters. Nick Gentry is legendary as a thief taker in London. At his brother-in-law's (Ross Cannon from Lady Sophie's Lover) insistence, Nick has taken his skills and put them to use at the Bow Street Runners. He has been pleased working with the runners for a number of years and is still in demand working contractual private investigations on the side. When Worth Any Price opens, Nick has been hired by Lord Radnor to locate his run-away fianc&eacute;e, Charlotte (Lottie) Howard. Soon Nick has located her and visits an earl's country estate in search of her. He believes she is working at the estate as a lady's companion. When Lottie meets Nick, she is instantly attracted to him and Nick is drawn to her as well. But, before he has the opportunity to complete his investigation and reveal the true purpose of his visit, the earl exposes Nick and his objectives to Lottie.<br />Nick's character is a well-written hero for romance. He has a strong personality - yes domineering with a swagger. Although his roots are aristocratic he has no desire to live that life. He has enjoyed his years as a highly skilled detective and has made his own fortune. There are many mysteries concerning Nick's previous business dealings and as a youth growing up. He is not ashamed or even necessarily secretive about his former questionable occupations during his adult life. But his youth is shrouded in secrets that he refuses to talk about or acknowledge and are deeply entrenched in the story line.<br />Charlotte is a very likable heroine. She has gentle strength that allows us to see her as an undemanding and mature woman. She also has some real scars from her teen years. There is good reason for her to hide from Nick's contract employer, Lord Radnor. As she explains the truth behind her hiding, Nick realizes that he cannot report her whereabouts and must protect her. The attraction they had initially felt for one another has heightened significantly. Once Lottie has explained to the earl and Nick her reasons for hiding, she offers herself to Nick, as his mistress, if he will protect her from the dreaded Lord Radnor who is basically considered her enemy. Nick, however, does not accept her offer as his mistress. He insists on marriage between them instead.<br />So begins the usual denial of strong feelings - especially on the part of the hero. He finds it very difficult to accept that he may be very besotted with Lottie. But it is a most entertaining story even if some of the plot lines are typical romance stuff. Kleypas does it with such an edge that it captivates you and makes Worth Any Price a difficult book to put down. Nick's character is unusual in that Charlotte is only the second woman he has been with physically. However, don't let that little fact fool you. These sensual scenes steam and steam and certainly deserve that 9 sensual rating from Amazon. Since I always include a sensual rating in my reviews, I will further emphasize these sexy scenes rate a solid 4  out of 5 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />.<br />This is a fun tale and yet very serious at times. I adore stories in which the couple gets married early in the book. I like seeing the couple work out their marriage and this particular marriage is very fun to watch, without a doubt. This is one book I wanted to consume as fast as possible. But, as I read it, I knew I should be slowly savoring it instead. This is the third of a series.  Someone to Watch Over Me is number one, Lady Sophia's lover is number two and Worth Any Price is number three.  It is a highly recommended \\"read again\\" and on the keeper shelf for good.eport her whereabouts and must protect her. The attraction they had initially felt for one another has heightened significantly. Once Lottie has explained to the earl and Nick her reasons for hiding, she offers herself to Nick, as his mistress, if he will protect her from the dreaded Lord Radnor who is basically considered her enemy. Nick, however, does not accept her offer as his mistress. He insists on marriage between them instead.<br />So begins the usual denial of strong feelings - especially on the part of the hero. He finds it very difficult to accept that he may be very besotted with Lottie. But it is a most entertaining story even if some of the plot lines are typical romance stuff. Kleypas does it with such an edge that it captivates you and makes Worth Any Price a difficult book to put down. Nick's character is unusual in that Charlotte is only the second woman he has been with physically. However, don't let that little fact fool you. These sensual scenes steam and steam and certainly deserve that 9 sensual rating from Amazon. Since I always include a sensual rating in my reviews, I will further emphasize these sexy scenes rate a solid 4  out of 5 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<BR>.<BR>This is a fun tale and yet very serious at times. I adore stories in which the couple gets married early in the book. I like seeing the couple work out their marriage and this particular marriage is very fun to watch, without a doubt. This is one book I wanted to consume as fast as possible. But, as I read it, I knew I should be slowly savoring it instead. This is the third of a series.  Someone to Watch Over Me is number one, Lady Sophia's lover is number two and Worth Any Price is number three.  It is a highly recommended \\"read again\\" and on the keeper shelf for good.	2003-06-11
US	51730223	R3P4RN3AWSUVSA	0804119791	5039678	Ecstasy (Notorious)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Oh Nicole - you're breaking my heart!	I kept this book for a special time so that I could relish every minute of it.  I have read all of Jordan's books with the exception of 2 or 3 really old ones.  My all time favorite romance, The Warrior, is written by Jordan.  However, this entire series that includes Ecstasy is not an example of her great writing talent.  The Seduction, The Passion, Desire, and then Ecstasy are the order of this series.  I would have rated none in this series to date more than 4 stars.  I was disappointed in Ecstasy.  It was not the savored read I expect from this writer.  I have given it a 3 star rating primarily due to the great respect I have for Jordan as a romance author.  I think I have seen the best in The Warrior and now Jordan has set the bar very high when I compare her other novels to that great book.<br />Kell Lasseter, the hero in Ecstasy, owns one of the top gaming hells in London, and has become very wealthy despite his penniless youth.  He is a strong, handsome, and dominating hero, as Jordan's heroes always seem to be, yet, in contrast, we recognize more tenderness in him early on.  Kell has a very troubling brother, Sean, who is mentally unstable.  He has been under Kell's care since he was a child and there is some horrible history between the two.<br />Raven Kendrick is not a very likable heroine.  She is in England after being raised in the West Indies by her mother.  Due to her mother's strong desires for Raven's future life, she has raised Raven as the English lady she once was and asks Raven, on her death bed, to go to England and marry a titled man.  In the opening pages, we see a hard-hearted Raven dressing for her wedding to a nobleman who she respects but does not love.  She has seen her mother suffer from a broken heart for years and refuses to ever fall in love and give her heart to a man.  She is one of the most immature heroines I have ever read and she is very stubborn as well.<br />As Raven is entering the carriage that will take her to the churchfor the wedding, she is abducted by Sean Lasseter, Kell's mentally deranged brother, and taken to Kell's gaming hell.  Sean considers himself a jilted lover and wants to get even with Raven for not returning his love and a few other items that you will discover when you read the book.  Kell arrives at his gaming hell to find his manager frantic with worry and the news that Sean is brutally holding someone hostage in Kell's upstairs bedchamber.  When he enters the room, he finds Sean drunk and seriously contemplating how he will abuse Raven next.  He has already cut her clothes from her, hit her, drugged her, and tied her to the bed.  Kell attempts to right the terrible wrong his brother has done to Raven but she is ruined by society's standards.  He does not even know how he will keep his brother from prison or the hangman's noose after this escapade.<br />Many pages are contributed to the solution to Raven's dilemma and eventually Kell offers to marry Raven and they agree to a marriage of convenience.  This marriage of convenience is one overused plot line that I am very wary of.  Sometimes it is a basis for a delightful romance.  At other times, it is used as the beginning of a serious romance.  However, I see it mostly used as \\"I want you but can't have you because I may come to care for you.  Wait, I have to have you!  No, no - that was wrong.  We can't do that again.  Oh no!  I have let you get to me again physically - it's only sex but I must build my wall stronger now so you can't get to me again.\\"  And that is exactly what this was.  Yes, we will.  No, we won't.  And the thoroughly irritating \\"I love you but won't let you know\\" ploy is used so many times that I rolled my eyes more than once.  Half way through this book, I put it down thinking how immature the leads were acting and that there had not been an original story plot line at all.  I was reading a badly written romance.  But, ever true to Jordan, I plodded on.  The last half was much better than thefirst half of the book.  But Raven remained impossibly immature, inconsiderate, and became even more stubborn in really stupid ways.  Kell eventually looks like a really respectable guy compared to Raven's ravings and poor decisions.<br />The sensual scenes, which are not as plentiful as you would expect, were usually spaced far apart and for the most part were written as \\"just sex\\" as the leads continually reminded each other.  I am a little old fashioned in that I want emotional commitment to eventually be a part of the sensual scenes.  It does come but too little - too late in my opinion.  The scenes rate about a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />There is another book coming out in this series soon based on Dare's character in Ecstasy.  I will eagerly buy it and hope for more of Jordan's magical romance writing.  I believe a large part of my disappointment with Ecstasy is the heroine.  I just could not see her as a lovable person until the very end.  The hero is always the one to risk his feelings concerning their relationship and Raven remains unbelievably dumb about it all until the last portion of the book.  I will continue to support Jordan and will be gradually adding yet more reviews of some my favorites she has written.  And let me emphasize again, Jordan has accomplished some of the best romance writing I have read and Ecstasy just pales in comparison.	2003-06-11
US	51730223	R1DIR3H6R9VP9O	0671023691	496736220	Not So Innocent (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Remarkable blend of romance, mystery, & secondary characters	What a refreshing new author (at least new to me)! This novel takes place in a historical time period we usually read little of, the end of the 19th century. And its hero is a regular every day guy with no noble possibilities held in the wings. I really enjoyed the book and read it rather quickly for me.<br />Mick Dunbar is a high-ranking detective with Scotland Yards. He has just turned 36 and is sensitive about his age as his co-workers kid him constantly about it. He has a way with the women, of course, and has yet to meet his perfect woman but has every intention to marry her and have a family once he finds her. He is very handsome - few heroes are ever portrayed in any other manner - and is a straight talking man who knows how to speak truthfully - even if it is not what one wants to hear. However, his speech is always noteworthy and it is a treat when you read his lines. I guess he has that gift of saying a lot with few words therefore; you listen well to what he says.<br />Sophie Haversham has a gift of foresight that she would prefer to not possess. She first meets Mick at Scotland Yard where she has gone to report a death she has foreseen in a dream. She is very shocked to see that very man in her dreams - the one that is intended to die - as she stares at Mick. Mick believes she is some sort of crazy woman and dismisses her. Later that night when he is shot at, in precisely the location Sophie had told him he would be shot, he believes that she may not be crazy. Instead, he presumes that she is either the would-be murderer or closely connected to him. He begins to methodically interrogate her and ruthlessly opens every aspect of her life in order to find the identity of one who means to see him dead.<br />Sophie lives with her aunt in a rather run down home in Mayfair. Her aunt had begun renting rooms for income some years previously and Sophie assists her in these duties. Sophie lives a rather reclusive life because of her strange gift. Once someone getsto know Sophie, they realize she can, at times, read their thoughts. Since there is hardly a person who wants this invasion of their thoughts, her acquaintances are few and her former fianc had left her at the altar for the same reason. Now she is accepting life as a spinster at the age of 24. She believes that no man will ever want to marry her since she has this threatening, invasive gift.<br />Mick begins to invade Sophie's life forcing him into every aspect of her life - even to the point of taking a room at the aunt's boarding house where Sophie lives as well. However, for the most part, his intentions are those of a detective. Yes, he seems somewhat attracted to her but will not conduct a relationship with a suspect. At the same time, Sophie is very wary of Mick. She has a few family skeletons that she doesn't want uncovered and if Mick looks too closely, he will discover those secrets. And sure enough - he does.<br />The author allows us to observe the leads in page after page of quality time spent together as Sophie and Mick become further acquainted. It is not a relationship that develops quickly. Although attracted to one another and at times, giving into those feelings, neither believes that their relationship will lead to anything more serious. Sophie eventually realizes she has become extremely vulnerable where Mick is concerned. She understands the extreme inevitable hurt she has exposed herself to and attempts to put Mick out of her life. We really empathize with Sophie but don't really consider Mick too much of a brute. After all, he has told her he is not a marrying man and has attempted to keep her at arm's length. The sensual scenes come late in the book and rate about a 3.50 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />Guhrke is so successful at blending just the right amount of mystery with romance and secondary characters that this is a very well rounded story. The murder mystery is not boring and Sophie's aunt is very enjoyablewhile her mother and sister are especially annoying.<br />I look forward to reading the few other books Guhrke has written. Although I relished this book, I don't know if this will go on the keeper shelf. I have been in a real reading slump lately and although Not So Innocent really pulled me out of it, I could not rate it five stars. Relatively speaking, the books on my keeper shelf are stronger than this book. However, it was immensely satisfying to climb out of that slump by reading Not So Innocent.	2003-06-10
US	51730223	R21EOC8XTU2DHI	1551668491	110072523	A Woman's Heart	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Sizzling & tender romance combined with deep family values	This is probably a 4  star rating.  It was difficult for me to decide if it deserved four or five stars.  For some reason, about halfway through the book, I put A Woman's Heart down for about a month.  I don't usually do this - if I don't like it, I skim it to the end.  However, once I began reading this again, within a few pages, I was in love with the hero and thought the heroine was pretty terrific as well.  It did have a couple of overused romance plot lines appear but they disappeared fairly quickly.  I can only presume that the story had become a little repetitive and slow as I neared the middle of the book and felt I needed a break.  That is the reason I am not giving this a five star rating although the romantic leads had what it took for a top rated relationship.<br />Quinn Gallagher, an American with Irish roots, is a famous author and has come to Ireland with a motion picture cast and crew to assist in making a movie based on one of his renowned novels.  Quinn is a hero we love with his wit, good looks, totally cool personality and fame.  Accommodations are hard to find in this part of Ireland and Quinn ends up taking a room at the home of an extended Irish family who has family values and love as Quinn has never seen before.  A young widow and mother of a very dear six-year-old son heads the family that also includes the widow's father, her grandmother, two of her sisters and her brother.  Quinn is quite a cynical guy and can hardly believe the family interaction he sees and can scarcely bear the intimacy these people share.  In fact, he avoids the domestic gatherings (he was supposed to eat his meals with the family) after first experiencing this eye-opening, honestly true-life family.  You see, Quinn is a very intelligent man and has a deep understanding about life until it comes to truly knowing himself and the possibility of his involvement in a real family.<br />Nora Fitzpatrick, the young Irish widow, is very likable as the heroine.  She is self-sacrificing as we so often see in romance writing but she is not depicted as overly sweet which is the usual tendency in writing heroines in this role.  Nora is hard working and even does chores on their farm such as milk the cows.  On top of all this, she is a real lady, kind, and compassionate.  The contrast between Nora's constant manual farm and cooking chores and her depiction as an ever present beauty seems a stretch at times but we can only assume that this is beauty as seen in the eye of the beholder, that being Quinn, as he sees much more in Nora than her beauty.<br />Quinn and Nora are instantly drawn to each other.  They refuse to acknowledge this although Quinn is a lot more determined to resist the attraction than Nora is.  Gradually, Quinn can no longer resist the allure of Nora and her precious family and becomes involved in all of their lives.  He showers them with gifts (he is a rich hero as well) and begins to believe in the prospect of a more fulfilling life than he had ever imagined.  But this is romance reading, and never is anything as easy as that and Quinn and Nora have some mountains to climb.  But the journeys they must take make the story that much better and leave you with a smile as you experience a sense of well-being and peacefulness.<br />The chemistry between Quinn and Nora jumps off the page from the very beginning.  The sensual scenes are very tender and rate about a 3.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  I think one of the most remarkable things about this book is the tenderness of Quinn and Nora's relationship further blessed by Quinn's bond with her family.<br />I highly recommend A Woman's Heart.  Although it is primarily a sweet and sexy romance, it is also a strong story of family values and bonding.  Since this is my first JoAnn Ross book, I have done some research and have discovered that she has many more delightful books for me to read.	2003-06-10
US	51730223	R28DRHVX5LX3N1	0380813165	416358899	A Great Catch	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Lusty tale on one of today's great ships!	This was my first Michelle Jerott book.  What a lusty book it was!  It has been a number of months since I read A Great Catch and I still remember all the wonderful little details.  Considering that I read usually a minimum of eight books a week, that is really saying something.  Most romance novels seem to sink into nothingness as they tend to all be the same old storylines.  Or, the author fails the fervor to write a great romance even utilizing some of those overused storylines.  And then - thank goodness - sometimes we actually get a unique romance or such a spicy mix of hero and heroine that it stays in our memory when most are long forgotten.  A Great Catch is outstanding on three of these points.  The author is certainly fervent in her writing, the book has many unusual elements for romance writing, and the chemistry between the leads is absolutely irresistible and seductive.<br />Lucas Hall and Tessa Jardine had a tremendous love affair ten years earlier.  Lucas had left Tessa without a word and she had never quite recovered from the emotional damage Lucas had inflicted on her.  Now, ten years after he had left suddenly, he is back and very much a part of Tessa's life.  He has spent years serving in the Coast Guard and has now taken a civilian position as captain of a luxury liner.  Tessa has also spent years working on various ships (boats) within the shipping industry and now holds a coveted position in the marine world for a woman.  She has been chosen as first mate for a luxury liner and, yes, Lucas is her captain.  This is the setting for a heart wrenching, beautiful, and very sensual romance.<br />This is a very tender love story between two mature individuals.  They both carry a lot of emotional baggage and share a tragedy of disastrous proportions that occurred two years earlier.  This tragedy has affected each of them dramatically. Although this is not a dark book, it is certainly a serious tale.  The author successfully integrates a lot of facts about the shipping industry throughout the story.  I was not bored once as we learned about the ship this hero captains and the heroine who is its first mate.  As Lucas and Tessa begin to work together, Tessa can hardly keep her hateful attitude towards the captain at bay even while on the job and in front of other officers of the ship.  Lucas confronts Tessa about her unprofessional behavior and soon she begins to work out her anger.  Then, we see a real relationship developing between the two despite Tessa's broken heart, the emotional baggage and their shared tragedy.  It is certainly a moving story.<br />The story  - although not deeply descriptive - was erotic in a very tasteful manner.  I would rate the sensual scenes a solid 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  The leads' relationship is dripping with chemistry and their interaction is always remarkably interesting reading.  This book does not have a single page that is dull.  I can't remember when I have read a contemporary novel that had such a good combination of an interesting setting, suspenseful content, well-written mature leads, great sensual scenes, and such tenderness in the love affair.  Lucas, as the hero, is absolutely wonderful and very deep for a male lead in a romance novel.  Tessa is strong but not too strong.  Luke insists that they confront their problems - past and future.  As their relationship develops further, we savor page after page of interaction between them.  As readers, we are allowed a significant amount of time to experience the growth of their relationship.  This depth of their relationship is another strong reason for this book's high rating.<br />I did not want to finish this book!  I wanted to continue to relish it.  A Great Catch is so beautifully written and most moments between the leads are very poignant.  If I could rate a book higher than 5 stars, this certainly would be one of the few.  This book is definitely on my keeper shelf and is at the top of my list for another read in the future!	2003-06-10
US	51730223	R3KI9B0EWQVZ3W	0440226325	682784432	Wicked Angel	Books	5	30	31	N	N	An exhausting but very rewarding book!	When I finished reading Wicked Angel, I had to just stop everything and let my mind rest.  I was overwhelmed and exhausted emotionally!  From almost the beginning of this book, I knew that it was a five star rated book.  It was immediately engrossing.<br />Alex Christian, the Duke of Sutherland, carries a lot of responsibility on his shoulders.  He is, of course, known in all of England because he is a duke, terribly handsome, very rich, single, young, and extremely influential politically.  As he believes it is time for him to marry and produce an heir, he has requested the hand of an important political ally's daughter in marriage two years previously.  They will be married within six months.  He doesn't love the girl but is fond of her and knows she will make a great duchess.  He is yet another one of those heroes that think love for a spouse is neither realistic nor desirable.  Then his well-ordered life takes a sudden shift.  He is hunting at his country lodge when he stumbles upon a country lady having a disagreement with a belligerent hog.  He is so taken with her that he extends his hunting trip just to be around her.  He knows it is all nonsense because of all his duke duties but cannot resist her for a little while.  During this two-week period, their relationship is innocent and sweet.  But his responsibilities require him to return to London and Alex never expects to see the lovely country lady again although it makes him very sad.<br />Lauren Hill is that lovely country lady.  Although her speech, education, and mannerisms proclaim her a lady, she first encounters Alex as she is singing to a hog in a cornfield right before the animal charges her and she leaps across the fence into Alex's arms.  For the next two weeks, he observes her perform all sorts of manual chores and even sees her wearing her brother's old pants and shirt.  He is shocked but pleasantly surprised to find that she has five wards, orphans, who she cares for and loves deeply.  Lauren is totally taken with Alex and finds herself in love with him.  She has no idea that he is a duke.  Lauren lives on a run down country estate with her uncle, brother, housekeeper, a mentally challenged boarder, and the five orphans.  She is desperately attempting to make a living from the old estate.  Her uncle wants to her to marry and better their situation but Lauren has no desire to marry again.<br />Lauren's uncle, some years previous, had bartered her in marriage to a very old Count from Germany.  She was married to the old Count for two years prior to his death.  Since she had not provided him with an heir - a portion of the marriage agreement - she returned her inheritance, as his Countess, to the next Count and returns home to England penniless, much to her uncle's chagrin.<br />Now fast-forward four months to London.  Lauren's uncle has forced her back into society so that she may marry well once again.  She is introduced everywhere in London by her married title of Countess.  Imagine both Alex and Lauren's great surprise when they encounter each other at a party and find that each bears a title.  Neither one of them is very happy with the other because of the little secrets they have both withheld.  However, Lauren is ecstatic to see Alex and then heartbroken when she is informed that he is engaged and will be married in two months.<br />Now the real story begins and it is a roller coaster.  Lauren's uncle is blackmailing her to remarry well.  She cannot waste time with Alex but he won't leave her alone.  He seems to be everywhere she goes and although he believes he can never marry Lauren, he is obsessed with her.  Of course, several very eligible men are pursuing Lauren and are very serious in marrying her.  This makes Alex crazy with jealousy.  This is certainly a time when the old saying \\"You can't have your cake and eat it too\\" would definitely apply to Alex because that is exactly what he wants.  He wants Lauren despite the fact that he is getting married.<br />We see much kindness and caring from both Alex and Lauren.  They are both very likable characters.  The story was wonderful and it was difficult for me to ever put it down.  There are only two sensual scenes and they rate a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  You don't miss these sensual scenes because this is one of those books that has such good writing - it isn't missed.  Towards the end of the book, the leads hit some really rough spots and you feel drained and a little betrayed that the story has taken such a sudden turn.  There are some major issues to be addressed.  This is my one criticism of the book.  This sudden turn of events feels like one of those overwritten romance novel plot lines that just doesn't seem necessary.<br />This was my first book by Julia London.  I am definitely looking forward to reading her other books.  I think I have uncovered yet another great author.  And although I did not appreciate the plot twist late in the book, I still hold Wicked Angel in very high esteem.  It was fun, entertaining, amusing, sad and, at times, distressing.  It is overall a very well written book that deserves its high rating.	2003-06-05
US	51730223	R2W285ZUB8GVOF	0380785609	405731316	The Lover	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Heartwrenching and sexy Highland clan historical romance	The Lover is a Scottish Highland historical romance novel that centers on two allied clans.  Niall McLaren, the hero, is the laird of a very strong and powerful clan.  Niall has a prominent image of a fair laird who carries a lot of influence and commands respect.  While Niall is well known as this authoritative laird, he also carries a second reputation as a notorious rogue.  Niall had not expected to be laird of his clan.  He had spent most of his years in pursuit of other financial endeavors and more infamously as a lover to many women.  Six months ago his older brother, laird of the McLaren clan, died tragically and Niall had come home to take the leadership of his family's clan.<br />Sabrina Duncan is very satisfied with her life as a lowlander living in the city of Edinburgh.  She resides with her stepfather who is a very wealthy merchant.  Sabrina spends her time assisting her stepfather in business matters and tolerates a rather boring but necessary social life.  Sabrina had lived in the Highlands until her father's death at the age of four.  Shortly after his death, Sabrina's mother remarries and they both move to Edinburgh with her new stepfather.  She has not returned to the Highlands in all of the years since although she realizes she is the only descendent of her grandfather who is laird of the Duncan clan.<br />Sabrina is summoned to come immediately to the Highlands to see her grandfather.  He is on his deathbed and insists on seeing his granddaughter and only heir.  When Sabrina arrives at her grandfather's home, she soon discovers that he has arranged a marriage for her with the laird of the McLaren clan.  She has absolutely no desire for this marriage.  Not only does she dislike the idea of leaving her life in Edinburgh but she also doesn't want an arranged marry without love and commitment.  And Sabrina knows a lot about the reputation of her future husband, Niall, and does not want the unfaithful rogue for her spouse.  Niall is also opposed to the marriage but the Laird Duncan asserts that the marriage is absolutely necessary to save his clan once he dies.  There is no male Duncan strong enough to lead the clan and Niall will be laird of both the McLaren and Duncan clans once the marriage has occurred.  Since the two clans are extremely close allies, Niall grudgingly accepts the fact that they could lose one of their most important allies if the Duncan leadership is weak and taken over by one of the enemy clans.<br />From the beginning pages, Niall is just too much of a rogue for me to like his character much.  He hopes to shame Sabrina into breaking the betrothal by carousing with other women in front of her.  He blatantly informs her that he will not be faithful to her as her husband.  He does not consider fidelity as even a possibility once he marries.  I found the story a little lacking at this point.  Although it was very entertaining reading, Niall was just too mean during this portion of the tale.  Actually, he is very thoughtless throughout the book on this subject of fidelity.  Oh, he is the handsome laird of the McLaren clan with much to offer a wife - other than faithfulness.  But Sabrina fully realizes what she is getting in a husband and doesn't like it but is too proud to let him see her true feelings on the matter.<br />Sabrina is a great heroine.  She is determined to remain with Niall - no matter what and begins fulfilling her role as the laird's wife almost immediately once they are married.  She proves to be very good at working with the clan members and truly holds them in high regard and treats all of them with respect.  I liked her throughout the book with the exception of the ending where she treats Niall so horribly that it is totally out of character.  Oh, he really deserves this treatment but it did not ring true to Sabrina's personality.  <br />Although there is a slight mystery or two playing out in the background of Niall and Sabrina's romance, their romance covers most of the pages in the book.  That is one thing I really enjoy about Jordan's books.  She can make a long book very interesting while centering the majority of the attention on the leads' relationship.  At times, this writing was very intense and I found myself incensed with Niall's behavior more than once.  I was actually in tears at one point because of his treatment of Sabrina.  But, please don't get the idea that this book is all about Niall's shabby treatment of Sabrina.  Throughout the book, Niall is finding himself more and more fascinated with Sabrina.  He discovers that he WANTS to be faithful to her and, as we so often see in these emotionally immature heroes, he feels he must prove his new desire for fidelity is foolish.  He is constantly fighting his deep feelings for Sabrina.  And Sabrina does not allow Niall to mistreat her.  She may be subdued in her actions towards him but is certainly assertive and will not allow him to run over her.<br />A few major occurrences really increase the intensity of the story but I cannot say more without giving away too much of the book.  Before the end of the book, Niall is on the receiving end of Sabrina's wrath, as mentioned earlier.  He undoubtedly merited this ill treatment.  I relished him receiving his comeuppance.  But once again, just as I believed the author wrote Sabrina out of character in the extent of her revenge towards Niall, I also believe Niall is written out of character in those same scenes.  He is just too much of a rascal at heart to be so subdued and accepting of her ill treatment.  It somewhat emasculates him.<br />Overall, this is a highly enjoyable read and I did not want to put the book down.  It had a few overused plot lines such as the mean rogue and the embittered heroine.  But Jordan knows well how to write these characters and I delighted in this tale of a tough, desirable hero and a smart, endearing heroine.  It had just enough of a mystery to be truly interesting without dragging us through page after page of worthless mystery writing.  The sensual scenes are a 4.5 out 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  These scenes are somewhat frequent once they begin and are not gratuitous.  Jordan does this type of writing very well.<br />One of the sure signs of a great romance novel, in my opinion, is the amount of time the leads spend together.  As I indicated earlier, Niall and Sabrina have a lot of time together - both positively and negatively.  This is a fantastic book and is a definite keeper for my Read Again shelf.  Nicole Jordan remains firmly one of my favorite authors.  I have read all of her books and they nearly all come in at the five star rating level.	2003-06-05
US	51730223	R1UXWER73Y45O6	0821772112	765200965	Closer Than She Thinks (Zebra Book,)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Not very close to a true romance	This is my second Meryl Sawyer book.  Since I found that first one so fascinating, I expected the same from Closer Than She Thinks.  However, this novel in my opinion, fails to deliver romance.  We instead learn enough about the hero and heroine to realize they are the leads but so many secondary characters are given a lot of time and attention as well that I could only say this book was supposed to be about the leads, Alyssa and Jake, but was only a little.<br />Alyssa Rossi is coming back to New Orleans after living in Italy a number of years.  A conglomerate based in New Orleans has purchased her successful company and Alyssa is looking forward to the cash injection into her business that was made possible by its purchase.<br />Jake Williams is the CEO of TriTech, the conglomerate that has purchased Alyssa's business.  It was done without his knowledge and her company does not fit TriTech's profile for purchases.  He begins to investigate because he suspects TriTech is being ill used by one of its officers and he visits the small jewelry business while in Europe prior to the company's relocation to New Orleans.  Jake meets the owner, Alyssa and the ground is set for what had the potential to be a great romance.<br />This book was about one-tenth romance and nine-tenths mystery.  If this were written as a mystery instead of a romance, it still would not have fared well in my rating.  The mystery is just not that well written and is actually weak if we are to compare it to other mystery novels.  I could hardly believe what I was reading as I read page after page about secondary characters.  Sometimes, one of the leads was involved in one of these scenes.  And on occasion, both leads were involved with these scenes centering on secondary characters.  But when it comes to scenes with just Jake and Alyssa, those are few and far between.  As their relationship develops, we wonder how because we certainly have gotten to read little about it.  This is not romance writing. <br />This is a three star rating because it had great possibilities and my respect for Sawyer as a writer.  However, I would call the book a disappointment.  It was difficult to keep my interest in a slow moving plot with so many diversions into all of these other people's lives.    We yearn to know more about Jake and Alyssa's individual characters as well as their relationship.  The sensual scenes were infrequent and were one of the few times we got to see them together.  These scenes rated no more than a 3.0 to 3.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />I wanted to be fair so I did finish reading this book but found it very simple to just skim the final 60 pages and not miss a thing.  The ending only made my opinion worse.  No additional percentage of time is given the leads.  Other characters keep yapping along as the leads are in the background.  It's beginning potential fell flat in the end.	2003-06-03
US	51730223	R2DL9ZFGW3JNZK	0380761327	303727550	Flowers from the Storm	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Serious, somber, and strongly moving  historical romance	Flowers from the Storm caught me totally unaware.  Never have I seen romance written like this without frills, such a serious plot, solemn characters, and heart-wrenching situations.  Don't let that scare you away.  This is an excellent book - it is the most unusual romance I have read to date and it really left me gravely considering - not a romance - but the plight of a stroke victim in the 1800s.<br />Christian Langland, the Duke of Jervaulx, is the hero of this book and he has the typical rakish traits as most historical romance heroes do.  He is young, handsome, very smart, rich, loves women, AND is a mathematical genius.  The heroine, Maddy, is the daughter of a collegiate professor of mathematics who works closely with Christian on discovering a mathematical theorem.  Both Maddy and her father are devout Quakers.  They live a simple life and are very influenced by the Quaker community.<br />Maddy first meets Christian when she is assisting her father in their mathematical quest, because he is blind.  Maddy knows of Christian's reckless regard for life, outside of academia, and has a typical Quaker response to him.  She believes him to be totally decadent.  She knows they have absolutely nothing in common and sees little hope for his redemption from his dissolute existence.  There is no magic in the air when the leads first meet.  It is just plain good sense to know that they are extreme opposites and neither takes the time to even speculate about the other.<br />Flash forward some months.  Maddy and her father have moved to an old country estate where her cousin has opened and is operating an asylum for the mentally ill.  The cousin proudly uses only the most progressive techniques in treatment of their patients.  For this time period, the treatment truly would be revolutionary - with one exception.  Maddy discovers a patient chained to the wall - a very handsome young man who cannot talk or understand attempts to communicate with him.  His family believes his sinful life has finally caught up with him and he has gone mad from all of the decadence in his life.  This patient chained to the wall tends to have fits of anger and is difficult to control.  Maddy stares in disbelief as she recognizes the chained patient.  It is none other than Christian Langland, the Duke of Jervaulx.  Maddy had been told he died.  But he has had a stroke.  Of course, his family and caretakers don't know this.  Imagine the horrors of living in a time in history that you were believed to be insane if you lost your ability to speak, could not communicate or understand your situation, and acted out your frustration in anger.  Christian's circumstances and condition is most heart wrenching.  Maddy immediately asks for care of Christian - identifying him as the Duke of Jervaulx.  She quickly concludes that Christian is not mad and begins working with him and makes great progress.  She is most certainly an angel of care.<br />This is a very deep and moving book.  It is not really romance writing.  Reading Flowers from the Storm can be exhausting because it is rarely without serious problems encroaching the characters all around.  You cannot rest even a moment.  Once a huge problem is dealt with, several more as big or bigger would come along in a matter of only pages.  This was a problem for me - as I read the book - because there was never a time to relish progress and no respite from the ever-threatening foes.<br />Christian is certainly a different type of hero.  Never have I read a hero that could have such a disability and still seem so attractive.  Recovering from a stroke of his magnitude is not something that just goes away.  Not only did Christian have to learn to live with certain disabilities from the stroke, he also had some major life issues prior to this tragedy that he needed to work out as well.  At times, I felt like I was going to break down mentally for Christian.  Although Maddy was an angel of mercy for Christian, her upbringingas Quaker limited her in her ability to understand or trust men such as Christian, who were considered morally debauched.  As he recovered little by little from his stroke, Maddy knew less and less how to deal with him.  She still considered him a rake.  I could go on and on about the many obstacles they had to face.  But don't take this wrong - despite all of this - the book is fascinating and you want to consume it fully before putting it down (which is probably not possible).<br />This book is redeemed by the sheer tenacity of the hero but even more so by the romance.  This is romance writing which means things do work out in the end.  One reason I read romance is for that happy ending.  This romance however, must grow.  The title is very appropriate for the story.  This truly is a story of finding the good (the flowers) out of the tragic events (the storm) in your life.  I believe romance is really secondary here.  This is a story of illness, upbringings, morals, recoveries, and many, many more of life's lessons.  There are some sensual scenes but they are few and unimportant.  They would rate about a 2.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />This couple needed to spend time just getting to know each other.  This would be my second complaint - they needed more time together.  This is a long book - 471 pages.  More of this book should have been spent on some mutual happiness.  I wanted the couple to be able to relish their relationship.  I found it disturbing that they could not.<br />In the end, I could not rate this five stars because there was just too much agony.  Problems were always rising and I got a little tired of the burden.  I did not relax as I read this book but as I look back on it, some three months later, I still remember the story details, the emotion, the phenomenal handling of a very serious subject matter and I tell my friends, &quot;I have just read one of the most incredible and heart wrenching stories.&quot;  I think that says it all.	2003-05-31
US	51730223	RXSEJHE8BSK2H	0515131520	502406772	Darkling I Listen	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An excellent book by any standard	Brandon Carlyle, a famous movie actor, has the image of a Hollywood bad boy.  Brandon is now in hiding after spending three years in prison for manslaughter.  He has sought refuge in the small town he grew up in, Ticky Creek, Texas and is living with his beloved aunt and uncle seeking peace and quiet.  Although Brandon was at the top of his movie career when he was sent to prison, the offers for acting are now few and insignificant.  Now on parole, he relishes the time he is spending with his aunt and uncle, works hard on their ranch/farm, and is questioning what he will do with the rest of his life.  He is still young enough to have many acting years ahead.  But, what really counts in life?  When we first meet Brandon, he is in a depressed state, asking himself these questions and we can see his inner turmoil and identify favorably with him.  He doesn't act out his previous bad boy image and fights to maintain a cool head and stay completely away from what could be considered inappropriate behavior.  Of course, he is very handsome and tremendously sexy.  Brandon is protected from the outside world by Ticky Creeks' residents who cherish him and keep his whereabouts secret.<br />Alyson (Aly) James is a tabloid writer looking for one last big story that will hopefully provide her with the funds to change her life.  Aly has found that big story - she has discovered Brandon's hiding place and wants to be the one to reveal the latest about Brandon Carlyle.  Yes, Aly's plans for exposing Brandon are not honorable and she does have a sleazy tabloid background.  However, she is a fantastic heroine - one of my favorites.  In fact, her description of such a career in reviews of this book, kept me from reading it for some time.  I just could not imagine her in a positive light.  But the author pulls it off.  We read about a heroine who is strong, understanding, kind, and empathetic.  She decides that she cannot continue her past career as she gets to know Brandon and his family.  She now fully sees that there is always another side to a story.  In the case of Brandon Carlyle, his story has an overwhelming and sad side.<br />Darkling I Listen is definitely a very serious, dramatic story.  There are a few humorous lines but mostly it lives up to its name in that it is a very dark tale.  Brandon and Aly have a great amount of interaction for the first three-fourths of the book.  We are in for a stimulating and intensive read as we see Brandon come out of his shell and are allowed to observe the secrets of his agonizing past.  Aly plays well into Brandon's recovery.  She shows much more character than her past would indicate.<br />The sensual portions of the book have been described by other(s) as some of the most sensual they have read.  Although well written and meaningful, these scenes rate about a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  Yes, some of these scenes fall closer to a 4.5 rating but the scenes are infrequent and therefore my reasoning for a 4.0 sensual rating.  This is not a book in which you miss sensual scenes.  You are so caught up in the entire book that they simply help round out a very beautiful story.<br />Although this is a definite five star rated book, there still were a couple of troubling aspects.  First the suspenseful ending of the book was just too much.  It was too graphic and violent for my tastes.  Second, the epilogue is squandered.  It is spent on the many secondary characters (both good and evil) appearing all at the same time to explain their part in Brandon's misery and seek his forgiveness.  I wanted interaction between the leads.  Instead, I felt that the author wasted the entire epilogue tying up loose ends that we as readers already understood completely.<br />Darkling I Listen is an excellent, excellent book!  It is a deeply moving and multifaceted story.  With the exception of the violent final portion of the book, this tale lacks nothing.  It is truly great reading.  This is myfirst of Sutcliffe's books and I will keep it to read another day.  I look forward to reading her other books and have just started her newest, Bad Moon Rising.	2003-05-30
US	51730223	R3IE8LNJXNABXH	0373835892	160247103	Silent Confessions	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Sexy tale but story has little depth or originality	This is my first Kenner book to read that is not one of the Blaze series.  I had hoped this full-length novel without the Blaze trappings would prove she had moved beyond the stilted sameness of the Blaze books.  However, that is not the case.  Let me state, I am not a great fan of the Blaze series in that I like a lot of depth to a book.  The sensual scenes don't offend me; however, I don't want them to overshadow all other aspects of the book.  If you are a Blaze fan and really enjoy these light, sexy tales, you should add a star to my review.<br />A stalker is using quotes from what appears to be historical erotic literature to frighten his prey.  Jack Parker, a detective with the sex crimes unit of the NYPD must seek out the source of the suggestive phrases.  Jack hopes that once that source is found, he will be able to find the stalker before the situation becomes really dangerous.<br />Veronica (Ronnie) Archer owns a bookstore and specializes in historical erotic literature.  She is currently working on her doctorate utilizing her specialty as her subject matter.  She not only owns a bookstore that sells this sensual literature, but she also has a scholastic chat room for erotica, gives weekly talks about erotica at her shop, and has many graphic erotic antique images framed and hanging all around her apartment.  Ronnie is very kind, beautiful, and relatively inexperienced sexually.  This was one of my first problems with this book.  Her character doesn't fit.  I can accept everything about her image until the author attempts to cast this \\"innocence of actual sexual experience\\" on her.  After all, she is in her late twenties and is exposed constantly to this subject matter.  But we are to accept her as a relative innocent although it does not ring true.<br />Jack Parker is the usual contemporary cop hero - totally male, attractive, discerning, and great in bed.  He approaches Ronnie for assistance in his stalker case.  Both Jack and Ronnie are just too typicalin this overused scenario of a detective that meets an irresistible woman through his police work. They are instantly attracted to one another and a physical relationship begins almost immediately.  These sensual scenes will really grab most readers but I found them to be dry, reading as though the author is quoting the ABCs of sensual writing.  A lot of pages are spent on these scenes and rate about a 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />One very pleasant aspect of this book is the time that Jack and Ronnie spend together.  Although a lot of time is spent between the sheets, there is still a real love relationship developing between the leads and most of their time together is very tender and precious.  They are both mature and not given to misunderstandings or arguments.  The author allows us to experience their relationship as it evolves into an affair of the heart.<br />Although the plot was typical, there is a twist in the ending that surprised me a little.  I have seen that others may have recognized the villain early on in the story.  I did not.  The villain, once uncovered, was not who I suspected.<br />While I did think that the leads were enjoyable characters, I found this book a bit boring.  It was a book I could easily put down because the plot did not inspire me to keep reading to find out what happens next. Jack and Ronnie's relationship and story were sweet but too predictable.	2003-05-29
US	51730223	R37NJOV0L9UZ42	0380813017	167791673	When the Laird Returns: Book Two of The Highland Lords	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Promising beginning - a real letdown overall	This is my first Karen Ranney book.  I looked forward to it and assumed that I would enjoy it and many of her other books in the future.  I will try Ranney again and I still hope that she is an author I can depend on for a good read.  But When the Laird Returns had just too many overused, trying, romance plot lines to abide with much patience.<br />Alisdair MacRae has arrived, for the first time, in Scotland as an adult.  His family had fled their former Highland estate prior to his birth.  Alisdair wants to see his birthright, Gilmuir castle with it's surrounding lands, and falls in love with it.  The castle had been partially destroyed when his family had been forced to flee Scotland but Alisdair finds that a large portion of it has been systematically dismantled.  Although the MacRaes no longer occupied their former Scotland home, the land and castle remains still belong to Alisdair.  In addition, Alisdair finds sheep grazing on his land and orders the shepherd and his sheep off his land.  He begins looking for the man who is apparently using his land as his own and finds the dreaded villain in this book, Magnus Drummond.  Magnus has claimed the lands as his own and has apparently obtained legal ownership.  Alisdair is a wealthy successful ship builder and decides not to fight Magnus and agrees to pay him an unbelievable sum for his own birthright.  But Magnus has a further provision for Alisdair's purchase of this property.   Alisdair must also wed Magnus's daughter, Iseabal.<br />Iseabal is a free spirited woman who lives in the shadow of constant fear of her father.  Her times of running free for a day across the Scottish highlands must be kept from her father.  Although she doesn't escape her father's oppressive treatment often, she lives to relish the few times she is able to wander among the beautiful highlands around her.  Her father sees her as nothing special and believes her to be totally biddable.  When Alisdair realizes whom he will be marrying to obtain his birthright (he had seen her earlier in the castle ruins of Gilmuir), he considers her to be somewhat of an empty being - certainly no one he would be attracted to.  Iseabal accepts her marriage sensibly.  Once she leaves the island with Alisdair, he informs her that he will obtain an annulment of their marriage once he reaches England.  Of course, he will support her in some manner.  He refuses to bed her - nothing will come between him and his determination to have the marriage annulled.  He doesn't really care about the future he is forcing upon Iseabal or rather he doesn't really think about the ramifications upon her life his determined annulment will cause.<br />During the voyage to England, Alisdair begins to see beautiful qualities in his unwanted wife.  Iseabal, in return, sees in Alisdair a man she could be happy with.  Their relationship tenderly begins to evolve into something more than a forced marriage.  Alisdair stays committed to the idea of the annulment but finds it harder and harder to find his reasons for it.<br />Alisdair is a nicely written hero with a capacity to love before the end of the book (we often don't get to see this in romance writing until the end of the book).  He has all those hero like masculine attractions we want to see in a male lead.  We discover he is a very considerate and understanding man.  Iseabal eventually convinces us, as the readers, that she has a desirable personality and strength of character.  Their relationship has some great moments but then the last half of the book falls into some sort of hole.  I never regained my interest in the happenings once I passed the mid-point.<br />Magnus is a horrible villain - so awful that you cringe thinking about all of the despicable things he will do before the book ends.  He is just too mean.  Alisdair remains consistently likable and loyal throughout the story.  Iseabal, however, sinks into some pretty ridiculous behavior that makes no sense during the last half of the book.  I won't attempt to explain her convoluted thinking because I don't think we, as readers, can understand it.<br />The last third of the book found me skimming page after page as THE BIG MISUNDERSTANDING plays itself out.  The book became predictable, hellish, and boring the closer it approached the end.  Even the love scenes were boring in the good parts of the book.  There were pages and pages of description of these sensual scenes that were so artistically yet vaguely described, that you totally lost track of when he had even kissed her.  The sensual scenes rate about a 3.0 to a 3.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />This is not a book I will keep to read again.  It had some great possibilities but got lost in subplots and secondary characters and THE BIG MISUNDERSTANDING.  There was some great interaction between the leads that was highly enjoyable during the first half of the book.  I was so disappointed in the last half of the book because the first half had been extremely promising,	2003-05-28
US	51730223	R1LGS4AU3JPD0H	038079747X	681868285	The Pirate Lord (Lord Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	43	44	N	N	The Pirate Lord is scrumptious and fascinating	Pirate Lord Gideon Horn and his crew have decided they are done with pirating and have found a remote island to set up as their own island paradise.  One thing is lacking in their almost perfect plan and that is women.  When Gideon, the hero of this tale, is informed of a ship full of women convicts headed for New South Wales, he decides their troubles are over and sets out to capture the prison ship and thus provide wives for his crew and himself.<br />Sara Willis is an eternal do-gooder.  Much to the objection of her earl brother, she embarks on the convict ship as a teacher to the women and hopefully as an inspiration to take charge of their lives and thereby, improve the quality of their lives.<br />This is a delightful read!  What a hero!  I think that the heroine is a little too stuffy at times but that is her nature.  In the beginning, I could not easily envision these two romantically involved.  Gideon must force Sara to acknowledge their mutual attraction.  She certainly would have not done so on her own.<br />One of my favorite scenes is toward the beginning of the book when Gideon captures the ship of women.  Sara loudly stands up to him and reveals that her brother is an earl - attempting to scare Gideon away.  However, it is a well-known fact that The Pirate Lord hates English aristocracy and has targeted them in his pirate raids.  The crew of the prison ship recognizes that Gideon is the Pirate Lord; however, Sara has no clue she is stirring such a cauldron.  As Sara loudly threatens Gideon, you hear the thoughts of the ship's crew as they shrink inside - dreading her arguments - and the Pirate Lord's anticipated angry reaction.  Gideon's reaction to Sara's threats kept me laughing for quite a while.<br />Gideon tries to ignore his initial attraction to Sara.  After all, she is a member of the hated English aristocracy, and a real bluestocking to boot.  But once Gideon acknowledges his attraction, he will not give up until he has her.  Gideon is actually rather forceful in his taking of Sara and her virginity.  It would be a stretch to call it consensual sex but that is what the author wants us to think and the leads both consider it consensual after the fact.  The interaction between the leads was great.  They really enjoyed smarting off to each other because they did not like a lot about each other in the beginning.  But their disagreements were often very funny.  This was a very entertaining book.<br />The sensual portions of this book are a solid 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  The book does not rely heavily on the sensual scenes.  The story is so good that these scenes just add spice to an already great book.<br />The relationship between the leads is endearing.  The secondary characters are enjoyable as well.  Towards the end, we have the BIG MISUNDERSTANDING that seems to be a requirement of romance writing.  I put the book down when I saw the misunderstanding coming.  I didn't want to read about this couple experiencing betrayal and hurt after they had finally solidified their relationship and were very happy with each other.  But - all will be okay.  Fortunately Jeffries does not drag on the misunderstanding a page too long.<br />The story continues to develop, despite the unwelcome set of new problems, and the couple continues to believe in each other.  This book, even with its silly sounding title, is an excellent one.    It is the first book of a series.  The second book in this series is The Forbidden Lord and the story of Sara's brother, the earl.  The third book in the series is The Dangerous Lord.<br />The Pirate Lord most definitely belongs on the keeper shelf and will be a very fun one to read again and then again.	2003-05-24
US	51730223	R2Z6XJLEXAMNKV	0380811065	920055797	Lady Sophia's Lover (Bow Street, Book 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	After reading Lady Sophia - Kleypas is now a favorite author	Lisa Kleypas has definitely moved strongly onto my favorite author list.  I have now read six of her books, and with the exception of one, I would rate the other five books 5 stars as well.<br />Ross Cannon is the head of the crime-fighting unit, the London Bow Street Runners, and London's Chief Magistrate.  Some years ago, he sentenced Sophia Sydney's brother to serve on a prison ship where he has died.  Sophia believes her brother was innocent of the crime that he ultimately died for and wants to exact revenge in some manner on the ruthless magistrate, Ross Cannon.  In the beginning pages of the book, Sophia is applying for a position as Ross's assistant.  She plans to use this job to accomplish her goal of revenge and convinces Ross to hire her.<br />Ross Cannon is a little unusual for a hero.  He is not of the nobility but his family is so rich and well established in society that it does not matter.  He is a workaholic and often forgets to even eat.  He has not been with a woman for three years and does not believe in a physical relationship without commitment.  He is kind and considerate although he is politically very powerful.  He has some of those alpha tendencies that we enjoy in our heroes but he is very mature emotionally and does not wield them in an adverse manner.<br />Sophia is a great heroine.  Yes, she is out for revenge in the beginning and I rarely enjoy the revenge plot line.  But her desire for revenge quickly loses its importance.  She is not a virgin, or a widow, nor has she been molested!  She is a heroine that has consciously given up her virginity.  That is something we rarely see in historical romance writing.  Within the first few pages of the book - we learn of this because she explains that very fact to Ross, as it is part of the reason she has left her previous job.  She further informs him that he will not be able to get a good job reference due to the indelicate situation she found herself in.  Ross accepts this news without judgment, does not look down upon her because of it, and does not consider her a loose woman.  So, we actually have a rather unique beginning for a romance novel.<br />There is a lot of interaction between the leads.  This is one of the most important aspects of a great romance novel in my mind.  With the exception of a couple of secrets that Sophia keeps, the interaction between the leads is truthful.  Ross is always truthful and, as mentioned earlier, is also very mature in his interactions with Sophia.  Oh, we see the &quot;I will never love again&quot; in his mind in the beginning.  Fortunately the author does not make us read these thoughts over and over again.  Ross continues to mature to even a greater level and it does have an effect on his relationship with Sophia.  This is not a book given to lies or silly misunderstandings.  Once the leads do begin a relationship, we do get to experience its growth and their joy.<br />The sensual scenes are plentiful once they begin later in the book.  They are very spicy and rate a good 4.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />Lady Sophia's Lover is the first in what is now a two part series. I would not be surprised if Kleypas continued this series.  Worth Any price is the second of the series.  Now that I have stated that these two books are numbers one and two of the series, let me clarify that I think that Someone to Watch Over Me is actually the first in this series.  I did not find this in writing anywhere but the hero of Someone to Watch Over Me is part of the story in Lady Sophia's Lover and Worth Any Price.  So, to the best of my knowledge, Lady Sophia's Lover is actually book two of the series followed by Worth Any Price as third.<br />Lady Sophia's Lover is a solid keeper for my read-again list.  You will enjoy mature leads living a great story.	2003-05-24
US	51730223	R382Y1DKGZI00W	0380820552	790279630	Getting Her Man	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Hero is one of People's Most Eligible Bachelors - FUN!	Michele Albert also writes under the name of Michelle Jerott.  I have read two of Jerott's novels, both more dramas than humorous and both have been five star ratings in my mind.  Since Getting Her Man is so different from her two previous novels she has written, I am guessing that her contemporary humor romances may be written as Michele Albert.<br />This is a difficult book for me to review because I do not believe \\"my tastes\\" in a book should negatively impact my rating of a book - if that type of book is tremendously entertaining to others.  This humorous romance is formula writing found in many contemporary romances today.  The hero is absolutely heart stopping.  That is no different from most romance writing.  The heroine, however, in this humorous formula, is usually cheeky and brazen and insists on being in charge of the romance.  She is often willful to the point of being dangerous with her life and the life of others.  She is so obsessed with being as strong or stronger than the hero (even in physically challenging situations such as losing a life).  Scenes are written of her discussing her possible romance with her girlfriends again and again.  I find these scenes boring and a waste of pages.  NOW, that is only my opinion.  My personal preferences have lowered this review from 4 stars to 3 stars.  In all other ways that don't involve the heroine's highly aggressive personality, this book is easily a 4 star rating.  So, if you enjoy the type of heroine that I have just described, please increase this rating to a 4 star rating for your purposes.<br />Archaeologist Jack Austin is a cool guy in every way and has been named by People Magazine as one of the most eligible bachelors of the year.  The magazine contains a full-page picture of him and needless to say - women are drooling all over him.  He is very handsome, teaches at Tulane University, and heads up archaeology expeditions to a Mayan site that he discovered some years before.  He is a strong character and gives into the heroine without losing any of his masculine appeal.  He is an underdog fighting a battle for antiquities that is hidden from the public's eye.<br />Diana Belmaine is a beautiful, wisecracking private investigator hired to find a stolen Egyptian artifact.  She aggressively hits the trail looking for the thief and immediately discovers that this theft has similarities to other recent thefts.  She decides that Jack Austin is her primary suspect for several reasons but primarily because most of the other thefts - she has not been hired to solve - involve Mayan artifacts.  And Jack is totally committed to protecting and preserving these artifacts.  So she hits Jack hard again and again with her suspicions and although she makes Jack wary, he finds himself strongly drawn to Diana.  He handles her interrogations with humor and throws more than a few sexual innuendos at her - totally throwing off her sense of balance in her very professional investigation.<br />Usually, the possibility that one of the leads may be a thief, keeps me from reading a book.  It is just a tough scenario to work around.  But Albert writes this theft mystery with great finesse and gives the book a better than average mystery in the process. <br />Once we get to know Jack and Diana, we enjoy their great repartee with its fantastic humor.  I would read a scene more than once because I would laugh just as much each time I read the scene.  It is through this humor that I finally developed a real liking for the heroine.  The sensual scenes are few - one rates a solid 4.0 and the others are probably a 3.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />The book moves a little too slowly once you reach the middle.  I put it down for a few days during this time.  But once I picked it back up, the pace accelerated.  The closer I came to the end of the book, the more I appreciated Diana as she became more loving and understanding.<br />This is not a book I will keep to read again.  The hero, Jack Austin, had tremendous possibilities with his character.  But he was continually overshadowed by Diana as she not only insisted on solving the mystery, but also on knowing all of Jack's secrets although many of those secrets were really none of her business as far as her investigation was concerned.  If the heroine could have been just a little tamer and kinder, this book would have been rated higher in my eyes.	2003-05-23
US	51730223	R27WAK6N7J0EPY	0380776162	388209748	Lord of Scoundrels	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Vastly entertaining - A great read from the beginning pages	What a fun book! This is one book I hesitated reading because of its outlandish name and book cover. I came across an interesting review on AAR's website and decided I could not resist.<br />Lord Dain, the hero, is known in Paris as Lord of Scoundrels for the wild group of rogues he is leading down the road to complete debauchery. Bertie Trent is a young man from England who longs to follow Lord Dain's example and is getting himself in to a lot of trouble doing so. Jessica Trent, the heroine, is Bertie's protective sister. She comes to Paris to have a show down with Lord Dain and convince him to desist in luring her brother further down this dissolute path.<br />It seems that many of the books I review that have the highest ratings are those that are your non-typical romance. This one certainly falls into that category. Nearly everything about this book is distinctive and engaging. To begin with, half of this book takes place in Paris.<br />Our hero is not supposed to be good looking (although I think he was the only one who thought that once he had matured). He is such an unfeeling devil that you wonder if he will be capable of changing enough to live up to the status of a romance hero. The heroine is very likable but very strong and is not a prude at all although she is a 25-year-old virgin. Lord Dain has definitely met his match when it comes to doing battle with Jessica. He ruthlessly places Jessica in a highly compromising position and leaves her in the middle of it. She exacts her revenge in such a manner that your mouth is standing open with shock as you read it. It's great!<br />Lord of Scoundrels is full of subtle humor. All of a sudden you find yourself laughing when you least expected it. Jessica truly believes that Lord Dain is very sensitive and emotional and either tells him that or refers to these traits of his from time to time. Any time she does, Lord Dain's response is so hilarious. He does not see himself this way at all and certainly doesn't wantto be categorized as such. It is really a good bit of writing. Lord Dain and Jessica have a lot of stimulating conversation and interaction. There are no big misunderstandings or lies to hide. The action rolls along throughout the book at a quick pace.<br />The sensual scenes rate a solid 4.0 out of 5.0 ... Although none of these scenes occur during the first half of the book, they are not missed and certainly make up for lost time once they do occur. Also, this book rates high because it gives the leads' relationship ample time to develop and we get to experience that development.<br />This was my first Chase book and it is one I will keep to read again. I look forward to reading more of her writing. Lord of Scoundrels is first in a series with The Last Hellion as its sequel.	2003-05-23
US	51730223	R38NG54FUHRPIE	0312984596	170838457	Absolute Pleasure	Books	3	9	9	N	N	A Holt fan for sure - but this one was a little empty	The half Italian - half English, hero of Absolute Pleasure, Gabriel Cristofore, paints portraits of rich English ladies. He researches his future clients well - assuring that the next lady chosen will provide him not only a fee for her portrait, but also extra payment in the manner of jewels or other valuable items. Why would these ladies pay more than their portrait fee? Yes, you guessed it. Gabriel provides these chosen ladies with another service that requires great discretion. He finds painting a lady, servicing the same lady, and receiving multiple payments from said lady, is a fine way to earn a living.<br />Elizabeth, the heroine, is a rather plain and obedient daughter of a harsh, autocratic earl. She has not married because her father has needed her to head his household and has, therefore, selfishly made her into a mid-twenties spinster. Now her father has remarried and Elizabeth finds she is no longer required to manage her father's home and she has time on her hands for the first time in her life. She is a very sensible and kind young lady and cares greatly for those around her (with the exception of her new stepmother).<br />Gabriel has researched and chosen Elizabeth as his next potential portraiture (or should I say victim). He successfully arranges meeting Elizabeth at a public gathering and casts his net upon her. She falls for it and shows up at his home to discuss his painting of her portrait. Thus the foundation is laid for Gabriel and Elizabeth's romance.<br />I have enjoyed many of Holt's books and really looked forward to her newest publication. This book, however, is a little sterile. I love good writing and romance combined. But books that tend to have words holding together a string of sensual scenes scarcely hold my interest. And I am afraid that Absolute Pleasure almost slips into that category. However, Holt saves this book from that category in that she holds to the premise that the romantic leads must be faithful to their relationship.These sensual scenes are not sex for the sake of sex. There are deeper feelings involved and - though not spoken - fidelity for the span of their relationship.<br />This book did not impress me as a great book. The leads' relationship seems contrived for at least the first 100 pages. When I found myself finally believing that there might be something positive come from Gabriel and Elizabeth's romance, all hell breaks loose. I had to actually make myself pick up this book and read it because I found myself dreading the next possible scene. As the reader, you don't want Elizabeth hurt even if you believe her actions are foolish. <br />Gabriel is repeatedly unkind to Elizabeth and ruthless in his behavior towards her. Although we discover later that Gabriel believed he had her best interests in mind, it still tastes of revenge and meanness. His cruelty occurs too often for my tastes. It is a stretch for me to understand how Elizabeth could believe in Gabriel so strongly and love him. After all, Elizabeth has done her research too and knows that Gabriel is a swindler, defiler of women, and insincere. I wish I could have given Elizabeth a copy of \\"Women Who Love Too Much\\" to read. She is immature in her expectations of him.<br />This book has received criticism for it's many sensual scenes. Yes, there are more of these scenes than in most romance novels. But those scenes are not graphic and hardly ever depict \\"the deed\\". I rate the sensual scenes about a 4.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />Although several of Holt's other books sit on my keeper shelf, this one will not. There just wasn't enough substance to the story. Gabriel is not a hero I could connect with or even understand how Elizabeth could fall for him. Maybe I am getting more conservative with my reading requirements but there just wasn't enough good old plain love for me to remember the story line fondly.	2003-05-22
US	51730223	R33GXXQ8CNNWMV	067173783X	366170390	The Lion's Lady	Books	5	153	156	N	N	The Rake - The Lying Princess - Best Garwood Romance Yet	Christina Bennett has come to London to avenge her mother's death. She uses her European title of Princess Christina when she is presented to London society. Christina hides many secrets - particularly that she was raised by American Native Indians. At times, her presentation to and acceptance by London society seems a little stretched but it is such a great story that you overlook those little bits of non-reality.<br />Lyon, The Marquis of Lyonwood, is a cynical and hard man. He has the usually rakish views of English historical romance in that he does not believe in love or even expect to meet a woman that could mean more to him than the physical side of a relationship.<br />Christina and Lyon meet at a party and from the first glimpse, they know their attraction to each other is certainly unique. Although Lyon doesn't want a relationship with a woman beyond a mistress, he finds himself seeking out Christina again and again. Christina is unlike any woman he has ever met, she is rather blunt and does not fear or hide her fierce attraction to Lyon. Since Lyon has a lot of experience solving mysteries, through his secretive work for the English government, he senses when something is not truthful. And he senses Christina is not being entirely truthful when answering questions about her past. Lyon becomes almost obsessed with finding out about Christina's past and finds himself wildly attracted to her. Christina, in turn, is very attracted to Lyon but will not tell him her secrets because she must maintain her Princess front and knows she will return to America eventually.<br />This is my third Garwood book. I would have rated them all 5 stars but this is the best one yet. The humor is subtle but at times makes you laugh out loud. The story lines were interesting - even the secondary characters and the mysteries! I usually get easily bored with the mystery portion of a romance novel. More times than not, the mystery is poorly written and is an obvious ploy to extend the novel. But the two mysteries written in The Lion's Lady are just right. They take a page or two here and there but aren't boring when they appear.<br />The hero, Lyon, as usual, was a hero to dream about. There are never men like this. If there were, their wives would leave them. Dominance in personality is not a favored trait in a husband today. But this image that Lyon exudes is handsome, dominant, protective, yet very caring as a husband AND it is one of fairy tales. Romance writing certainly contains some aspects of a fairy tale and I think that is one reason I love reading well-written romance novels. I can enjoy Lyon just as he is written! He is a well-rounded romance hero with an appreciation for humor and a definite flair for being in charge.<br />Christina is a very likable heroine. She is a little too sweet at times but I have found that this is typical for Garwood's heroines. But Christina was so ornery and stubborn to boot! She lied - constantly - to Lyon. Fortunately, he considered it endearing because he understood her reason for it. She is only attempting to cover up her background and I think she is mostly truthful at other times.<br />It is so humorous how Lyon handles Christina's lies and her attempts to hide the truth by giving him vague answers to his specific questions. I love that Christina thinks of Lyon as a warrior. The relationship is certainly unusual for romance writing. There is none of the misunderstandings and bitter words so common in this type of book. We get to see their relationship from the beginning with an unusual twist. From the first moment, they both realize that their attraction to each other is strong and shared. They both attempt to avoid this mutual attraction in their own ways. <br />As Christina and Lyon's relationship develops, we get to experience many wonderful scenes in which they live out, day to day, their love for each other. It is refreshing to not have fighting and disturbances between the romance leads up until the end of the book. We are given time to relish their relationship.<br />The sensual scenes are a solid four out of five (see More About Me for rating guidelines) both in occurrence and specifics. These scenes are very well written and just fall in as one of the lovely aspects of the story. They help give the story substance and spice. But this is not a novel that depends on sensual scenes. However, we are happy that they are included.<br />This book is a keeper. When I pick this one up again for a second read - I will remember that not only is this book well--written, it is also spicy and very humorous.	2003-05-20
US	51730223	RZPQ41JD8YDLO	0505523876	735348451	Truly, Madly Viking (Time of Your Life)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Let your imagination go!  Viking humor & romance at its best	This is enormously entertaining romance humor!  It is all done in the name of a tenth century Viking warrior transplanted to the year 2000.  This is a sequel to The Last Viking but it can be read and enjoyed without reading The Last Viking first.<br />Jorund Ericsson, our hero, arrives in the year 2000 riding a whale.  Not only does he arrive in the twenty first century on the back of whale totally nude - but also he does so in front of a huge audience at an ocean amusement park!  Needless to say, he is considered much the oddity and probably mentally unstable.  <br />Maggie McBride, the heroine, and her twin daughters are at the ocean park and witness Jorund's shocking appearance.  Maggie is a practicing psychologist and steps in to protect Jorund and has him sent to the private mental hospital she works at.  She fears the treatment he may receive under the wrong psychiatric care.<br />I must admit I had my doubts about this book since the hero spends almost the entire first half of the book in a psychiatric hospital.  What a way to make the hero seem less than a hero!  But it doesn't work out that way.  Despite his crazy crash landing, riding a whale into the year 2000 and his subsequent commitment to a psychiatric hospital, this hero oozes he-man stuff and is really sexy to boot!  He is, as a proper Viking warrior should be, dominant big time!<br />It is so much fun to laugh at (or with) Jorund's tremendously amusing character and in doing so, laughing at ourselves as we read some of these romance novels.  Jorund does have an incredible sense of humor.  Some of the most entertaining moments in the book are the times Jorund is attempting to translate new English words to his tenth century English knowledge.  In his mind we hear him translate doctor into dock whore.  Nurse Gladys Hatcher becomes Norse Glad-ass Hatch-her.  Maggie is Mag-he.  Natalie is Not-a-lie.  Fred is Furr-red and Harvey is Hair-vee.  This is only a small representation of the interpretations Jorund attempts as he endeavors to assess this new world and figure what is going on.<br />Maggie is a great heroine.  She is just so sensible and non-judgmental.  She appoints herself as Jorund's psychologist and oversees his treatment.  Hew twin daughters are great secondary characters and are vital to the story.  I was rarely bored with even a full page of this book.  The secondary characters from the hospital were sometimes tiresome but fortunately little time is spent on them.<br />Since this story is about time travel, we have to live through the ever present attempt of the time traveler to return to his time.  Although this book would be considered a comedy, this return scene is one that breaks your heart.<br />The sensual scenes are few and occur during the last third of the book but are very sensual indeed.  Since Jorund is a Viking, the author portrays him as a very aggressive barbarian with savage sexual appetites (but certainly NOT selfish) in the sensual scenes.  The scenes themselves rate a 4.5 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines) but due to their infrequency, I rate these scenes an overall 4.0.<br />Truly, Madly Viking is a snappy story that allows you to zoom along enjoying the story with every page.  It is a definite keeper for me.  I know that I will enjoy reading it again someday.  And I am sure that I will laugh just as hard each time I read it.	2003-05-20
US	51730223	R25IO1TE0M8XE9	0553576526	566127862	Remember the Time	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Tender Love Triangle Between 3 Best Friends - Very Moving	This is a great, great contemporary romance novel.  I really loved this book and know that I will encounter few others in which the leads interact with such tenderness and yet firm determination. <br />It is the story of three close friends, two men and one woman.  Through flashbacks, we see their high school relationship and as it matured through the years.  The woman, Kate, marries one of her close friends, Paul, and the flashbacks on their tragic marriage tear your heart out.  And one of the primary reasons your heart is tearing apart so much is the third friend, Mike, the second man, has loved the woman from the beginning although his best friend is married to her.  Mike continues to be a very close friend to Kate and Paul and is loyal throughout their marriage.  He never attempts to come between the two.  The story begins when two of the three friends are 35 years old and the third friend, the husband, Paul, is dead.<br />I cannot think of many - if any - heroes that I felt were dearer than Mike.  In the beginning of the book, he is living across the street from Kate and is watching her destroy herself with alcohol and self-recrimination.  He is very understanding and a strong shoulder for her.  However, he is beginning to believe it is time to let her know of his feelings for her.  He has decided to change his life if she is not receptive to these feelings.  He is her oldest and dearest friend.  His character never seems weak at all but he is subdued as he begins to attempt to bring some life back into Kate.  It has been two years since her husband's death and she still stays shut away most of the time.  He gently gains a more intimate door into her life.  As she is attracted to him, he begins to show a much stronger side.  By the end of the book, I think Mike would be described as a mature alpha male.<br />The hero, Mike, is so - oh I don't want to say this but there is no other word - sexy!  He is successful, confident, and has so, so many other great traits.  He is definitely Dream Guy!<br />Kate has remained a dear friend to Mike and has matured though the troubled years of her marriage.  She is clinically depressed and sees no way out.  All of her attempts to start her life again seem to meet with failure.  So, she drinks yet another night and attempts to hide her actions from the world.  Beneath all of her pain, we see a beautiful person.  But getting Kate to see that about herself is a real challenge.  She is very difficult and actually rude to anyone who cares about her.  She is a little too obtuse at times.  Sometimes I just wanted someone to put her in her place for her rudeness and withdrawal from life.  But Mike goes gently with her and slowly begins to draw her out - making her realize she must be accountable for her actions.  As their relationship develops further, he increases the pressure for her rehabilitation and places higher expectations on her.<br />Kate has a few really stupid moments at the turning point of the book.  It made me want to throw up my hands at this sudden turn of events.  However, it tends to provide Kate with some gumption.  She begins to show some maturity and Mike continues to demand her to do so.  There are some very tough times during the last half of the book but the writing is superb and there are no big misunderstandings.  The plot moves quickly, never losing your interest for a moment, and all the while, we continue to see flashbacks of Kate and Mike's pasts.<br />There is not a boring page in the book although you do need to become accustomed to the rhythm of the flashbacks.  Kate and Mike's relationship is full of emotions and verbal and non-verbal challenges.  Their relationship, throughout the book, is vibrant.  The sensual relationship between Mike and Kate was beautiful and rates a solid four out of five (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />This is such a great book in so many different ways.  As I write this, I am sad that it is over.  This is another ALL TIME KEEPER that I will read again.  This one, in fact, is a book I could read again right now.  Annette Reynolds is a great discovery and I really look forward to her future books.	2003-05-19
US	51730223	R2KTFFKDN5DEN8	0451192524	389362721	Ritual Sins	Books	5	56	58	N	N	Dark Contemporary with Darker Hero	This was my first Anne Stuart book.  I was riveted as I read the darkest romance novel I have EVER read.  It was fantastic reading!  Stuart is such a unusual romance writer.  She invents a hero like I have never read - not even close to the other heroes I have read in romance novels.<br />Ritual Sins' hero, Luke, is a real bad boy.  He is a con artist - truly!  You don't know how bad Luke is for the majority of the book.  He is an extremely dominant and alpha male.  Luke is the leader of a cult.  Visions of Jim Jones swirl in your head.  He is so charismatic that you don't know if you will be able to trust him - if ever.  He has easily taken in his followers and all of them love him dearly.  <br />Rachael is a heroine who is hard to like.  Her character could have been a little kinder for my tastes.  But - if a real, live woman was in Rachael's shoes - I don't think she would have been kind or tolerant of Luke either.  Her estranged mother has just died and left over twelve million dollars, Rachael's inheritance, to Luke's organization (cult), The Foundation of Being.  Rachael is enraged and suspects foul play.  Her mother has never been kind to her or given her love.  Much of the plot revolves around Rachael's empty life, her cold treatment of the world, and the results of having a mother that really cared little for you.  Rachael doesn't like to be touched, hates men, and is frigid.  There are reasons in her background for her inhibitions.  Without giving the plot away, I can safely say, she is a wreck of a person.<br />Luke, on the other hand, truly seems to know a lot about living a quality life.  He can see most of Rachael's weaknesses within minutes of meeting her.  He has her pegged right and it scares her badly.  Rachael considers Luke to be a master manipulator - which he really is.  It is such a dire threat for him to so easily determine her most secret hurts, defensive mechanisms, and huge vulnerability.<br />Rachael and Luke first encounter each other when Rachael arrives at The Foundation of Being to investigate her mother's death.  She has told the group that she may be interested in joining them.  But many of them, especially Luke, know her real reason for her visit.  He realizes that she wants to expose him and would love to see him dead.  We all wonder who Luke really is.  Once again, it would give too much away if I enlarged on this mysterious trail we, as readers, follow searching for the truth versus the scam.  However, I can safely say that it is a deep and fascinating search.<br />Since this is a romance novel, it is also safe to say that Luke and Rachael develop a relationship against all odds.  Luke makes Rachael aware from the very beginning that he wants her sexually.  His speech, when with Rachael, is crude much of the time.  The sensual scenes don't occur until the middle of the book but they are definitely spicy.  They rate a solid 4.0 out of 5.0 (see More About Me for my rating guidelines).  Stuart writes a very sexy hero who throws out sexual innuendoes right and left at Rachael.<br />For the first half of this book, I was very cautious, and wondered if I would truly enjoy the book.  It is just SO different.  When I read a new author, the first book is such a test.  I can be almost tense wondering if they are going to disappoint me.  This author clearly passed the new author test with flying colors.  Even with the dark nature of the book, I will keep it to read again.  <br />This is an excellent book.  Stuart is masterful with such a forbidden subject.  Since reading Ritual Sins, I have read five other Stuart books.  Some have been good - some have been fair - but this one remains my favorite Stuart book to date.  I highly recommend it.	2003-05-19
US	51730223	R1UQBX127UY01O	0743410270	797007203	Lady of Skye (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	What a hero - Physician, Marquis, and great sense of humor	This rating is actually closer to a 4 1/2 star book.<br />Lady of Skye is an unusual romance novel.  It distinguishes itself with Dr. Reilly Stanton, first known as a physician, and secondly known as a Marquis.  Reilly is determined to demonstrate to his friends and the ton that he is a dedicated physician and that he treasures that title much more than his title as eighth Marquis of Stillworth.<br />The story opens with Reilly arriving on the island of Skye to set up a medical practice.  Skye is a far cry from London and has few of the conveniences that city offers.  Skye's physician has moved from the island, leaving the position of physician open.  However, the former physician's daughter, Brenna, has returned to the island and is their acting physician. Brenna, within the first few pages saves the life of a drowning man (who Reilly had announced was dead), wears the breeches of a man, and swigs liquor straight from the bottle.  All of this certainly gains Rielly's attention and the framework is set for a charming and humorous romantic story.<br />Dr. Reilly Stanton is a thoroughly charming hero with a fantastic sense of humor.  One of the strongest parts of this book is our ability to read his thoughts that make you laugh and laugh.  He is not a conceited man and is actually a humanitarian.  He has some pretty stuffy sayings that are probably typical of 1850s England but they sometimes tear at his overall hero appeal.  However, he is a strong hero that knows gentleness.  Reilly is a very entertaining and his entire personality is so pleasant!  Cabot certainly knows how to write attractive male leads without sticking to the old stereotypes.   He does not relish his title and chooses to ignore it - even at the end of the book!  Of course, he is very rich.  He is one of the most likable heroes I have read.<br />Brenna is a good-natured heroine.  She has just the right of amount of assertiveness for a woman during this time period and is an overall kind woman.  I did not think it necessary to introduce her acting the man with her pants and liquor swigging.  She is much the lady for the balance of the story and mostly wears dresses and drinks from a glass.<br />This book centers most of its plot on the romance of Reilly and Brenna.  Brenna is up to some very strange things on the island of Skye and no one can figure out what it is.  Her strange doings become a significant part of the book.  There is no murder mystery here - thank goodness.  The real enemy in this book is an illness.<br />The story drags a little in the middle.  But once Brenna and Reilly begin a relationship, the entire book warms.  Their time together is sincere and fun.  We read about two very well developed characters that discover they have a tremendous amount of similarities and interests.  There are few sensual scenes but they are spicy when presented.  I would rate them about a 4.0 out of a 5.0 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />This is my second Cabot book and I have enjoyed them both tremendously.  It could have easily been a five star rating if the middle of the book did not drag somewhat.  However, should you sense the story dragging when you read it, just stick with it.  It is worth it!  And by the end of the book you will be thinking as you put it down \\"I wish it didn't have to end\\".	2003-05-18
US	51730223	RTZ5XS1LL2NWU	0345452704	457341957	Dying to Please	Books	3	4	6	N	N	I am a huge Linda Howard fan - however:	I have read 21 Linda Howard books.  To say I am a Linda Howard fan would be would be an understatement.  I love her books!  I have another 8 of her books that I have yet to read.  I know I will savor them each but some of her books are much better than others.<br />Sarah Stevens has an unusual profession for a woman.  She is a butler and a trained bodyguard.  She demands perfection from herself and is therefore very good at what she does.  Her employer's home is burglarized and Sarah meets Detective Cahill.  Shortly thereafter, her employer is murdered and Sarah meets Detective Cahill yet again and gets to know him really well.<br />I enjoyed Dying to Please.  It had so many elements of classic Linda Howard.  But it falls short of the excellence of many of her other books.  This is written as a romance novel.  However, this falls more into the mystery novel category.  Linda Howard is one of the best in contemporary romance writing.  She is even effective at combining romance with a little mystery writing.  But this is not a good murder mystery.  As mystery novels go, this could not even come in as average.  And besides, when I read a romance novel, I want to read a good romance.<br />Sarah and Cahill are two vivid characters with lots of possibilities for a great romance.  Detective Cahill is a yummy hero but never gets to show his personality much.  Sarah is a very strong heroine.  This strength has nothing to do with her bodyguard skills.  Although there is that tough part of her, she is still very much a lady.  The chemistry is great between the two but they hardly have any time to solidify their relationship that we get to read.  The sensual scenes rate about a four out of five (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  <br />The majority of the pages in this book are dedicated either to secondary characters or one of the lead's thoughts.  I made this note to myself on page 152 out of 312 pages \\"I love Linda Howard books but at this point I am impatient.  The leads do not spend near enough time together.  The secondary characters and the leads' thoughts are not that interesting to sustain this lack of interaction.\\"  I found as I continued to read that my commment pretty much summed up the entire book.<br />I recall feeling the same way about another of Howard's recent contemporary novels, Mr. Perfect.  I hope this is not a trend of hers to take her books more towards mystery.  She is unmatched in her contemporary romances and writes the best of best heroes!<br />Her romances are always intense and very gratifying.  Yes, this is a gratifying romance but there is hardly enough of it.	2003-05-06
US	51730223	ROF1SIBVMBFN6	0843951737	925202224	After the Ashes	Books	4	34	35	N	N	A Western that falls short of true romance	This book is probably more of a 3 1/2 star rating in my estimation.  However, it is refreshing to read a newly written Western romance novel by a promising, new author.<br />Christopher Braddock, the hero of this western, is a bounty hunter during the years following the Civil War.  He is looking for a gang of robbers that recently killed while robbing a stage coach.  He is particularly pursuing young Corey Sullivan, hoping that once he finds Corey, he can be convinced to tell Braddock about the leader of the gang - his true prey.<br />When Braddock finds Corey in the opening pages of the book, it is at Corey's New Mexico ranch.  Corey's sister, Lorelei, our heroine, has just arrived from the East to make a new life with her brother.  Lorelei confronts Braddock and makes certain he does not find Corey.  She believes that Corey is innocent and tells Braddock the same.  Thus the stage is set for the beginning of Braddock's and Lorelei's romance.<br />This book captivates you within the first few pages.  It is an enjoyable story that keeps rolling.  We have the hero swearing he will never love and he lets the heroine know that in the beginning, halfway through the book, and several other times.  I guess he reasons it is okay to pursue Lorelei if she understands that whatever happens between them - it is just for today.  Lorelei is hurting from the loss of her fiance back east and finds herself drawn to Braddock although she realizes that he is not the type to ever settle down with her.<br />Lorelei is a very likable, sweet, and genuine character.  Her devotion to her possible outlaw brother is deep and she foolishly risks her life, Braddock's life, and Corey's life more than once attempting to protect her little brother.  Braddock is a very interesting character, sexy, and I enjoyed being in his mind - seeing things through his eyes.  You come to really like both the hero and heroine in this story.<br />Corey, conversely, is a real brat.  He was, on one hand, very selfish, and on the other hand, very protective of his sister.  He can see when someone else could hurt her or expose her to danger but has a difficult time seeing that he does so himself repeatedly.  Usually, I don't enjoy secondary characters much.  But Corey is a stinker and at the same time, has real spunk.  He was so mean and ornery to Braddock, standing up for his sister, that it was actually amusing.  I guess it is mostly a love/hate relationship that the reader most experiences with Corey.<br />Although Braddock and Lorelei are likable and you can understand their mutual attraction, their relationship fell a little into the Blah category.  I believe this is partly due to the fact that both leads believed their relationship was only for the moment with absolutely no future.  I know this is an overused plot line in romance novels but it seemed to have more of an impact in this story.  Possibly it is that we see both Lorelei's and Braddock's vulnerability.  The sensual scenes between the two rate about a four out of five (see More About Me for rating guidelines)and were placed well within the story.<br />Another reason this book fell short of a higher rating is that it is written as a romance novel but little time is spent on the actual romance.  The personal time, between the leads, fill few pages.  There are satisfying scenes between the two but this book spends a lot of time with or on secondary characters.  Although all of the parameters are there for romance writing, this comes off more as a historical novel.<br />I liked the characters and saw that the relationship between the leads had great potential.  Somehow, it just didn't live up to a great romance.  It is not one I will keep to read again although it did have many great moments.  I look forward to future books by this new author.	2003-05-06
US	51730223	R1JKCHWU00CEKN	0449006360	894257952	The Duke	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Tender, moving yet very powerful romance novel	Gaelen Foley rules the world of romance writing.  I have loved all of her books that I have read and I own them all; however,   I have not yet read them all.  Since she doesn't have a large backlist, I ration the privilege of reading her books.  I only allow myself to read a new one every two or three months.  Sadly, I have read all but two now.  I have savored them all.<br />The Duke is the first in a series that Foley is still writing.  I read book two (Lord of Fire) and book three (Lord of Ice) prior to reading The Duke.  Lady of Desire is the fourth in this series and was just released in 2003.  I know Foley is writing yet another in this series at this time.<br />Although I realized Foley was a great romance author, it did not really hit home until I read The Duke.  I kept reading the back of the cover and could not convince myself that it could be all that good.  Once I did decide to read it, I could hardly stop reading.  I thought it would be rather tame compared to Lord of Fire and Lord of Ice but it was not.  Robert, the Duke of Hawkscliffe, may be conservative compared to his brothers in the two Lord books, but he is no less sexy.  Being the oldest brother, he is written not only as conservative politically, but very moralistic.  How can a moralistic, political duke have an affair with a highly visible courtesan?  We are told on the back cover that their affair is in name only.  Robert wants to flush out a killer and knows this courtesan, the heroine, Bel, can help him.<br />This book moves swiftly from one great plot line to another.  Robert and Bel become closer and closer and the action gets faster.  Foley does such a good job writing these stories because she utilizes few of the overused romance scenarios.  There are no silly misunderstandings.  Both Robert and Bel communicate with each other and communicate honestly.  They actually have time to get to know each other and gain a lot of respect for one other prior to any serious involvement. <br />The entire book does not have a boring moment.  Robert does act a little too stuffy and dukish at times.  He is tormented between his image as a moral leader of London society and his desire for Bel who is know as a courtesan.  The romance between these two burn the pages up even early on when there is no physical relationship.  Once the sensual scenes appear, they rate a solid four out of five (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<br />Bel is one of my favorite heroines.  There are, of course, distressing reasons behind Bel having to make a living as a courtesan.  In fact, some aspects of her former life are too sugar sweet for you to read without raising an eyebrow (I never was so aware of people raising their eyebrows until I began reading romance).  The interaction between the leads is exceptional.  It is one of the few books that I have read specific scenes repeatedly.<br />At one point in the book, Robert comes to expect too much of Bel.  I cannot provide you any specifics without giving away a portion of the story.  However, I can safely say, it is heartbreaking for Bel!  I felt everything myself and was heartbroken for her.  It is one of the most powerful scenes I have ever read in the hundreds of romance books I have read.  Bel is strong and she does not allow herself to be used by Robert as he wishes.  We realize, as we continue reading, that Robert is probably brokenhearted himself and is just too male to realize it.  You relish the idea of him receiving his comeuppance.<br />This is a fantastic book that will keep you vastly entertained.  Although there are some very serious times in the book, there are also humorous episodes that made me laugh out loud.  Wow, Gaelen Foley, with this book, has entered my five favorite authors list.  Read it before or after the others in the series.  Reading it out of order made no difference to me.  However, the two Lord books will come along faster if you have read The Duke first.<br />Choose to read The Duke - you willrelish it!	2003-05-06
US	51730223	R1UBFTHFDY6OZS	0380778319	842433769	The Warrior	Books	5	52	54	N	N	Sensual Medieval - historically correct treatment of women	This is one of my all time favorite historical romance novels. I don't know what that says about me because this is a politically incorrect romance novel for today's woman. This is a book that portrays the treatment of medieval women as was probably most accurate for this time in history. If you want historical novels that allow women the freedoms we enjoy today or want to ignore the mistreatment women endured, this novel is not for you.<br />The Warrior begins with the hero, a Norman knight under King Henry, arriving at his new home awarded to him by the king for his loyalty and performance on the battlefield. The former owner of this castle keep has been accused of treason and the king has therefore given the treasonous lord's property to Ranulf, our hero. Expecting opposition from the former lord's daughter and vassals, Ranulf has with him a large number of knights and soldiers, faithful to him and in his service. We first see Ariane, our heroine and the daughter of the former lord, contemplating fighting off Ranulf and his men or opening the castle to them. Ariane is in a very difficult position. She does not believe that her father is treasonous and she has been betrothed to Ranulf, the new lord, for five years. <br />Ranulf is truly a magnificent hero even if he is pushy and has a driving need to always be in control. He is the typical Alpha male and all one could dream up for such a hero. Adriane is very well written, assertive and a little rebellious. She tends to be a little too mouthy at times but Ranulf actually deserves much more ill treatment than she gives him.<br />One of the things that really sets this book above others is the amount of interaction between the leads. This book exceeds 400 pages and at least 350 of those pages involve the leads in direct or indirect communication. To keep someone's interest for that many pages when the primary story revolves around the leads' relationship is truly remarkable. Page after page, we read delicious dialogue between Ranulf and Ariane. He sometimes borders on abuse but it is somehow leveraged with other interaction that just adds pleasantly to the tension without him actually abusing the heroine. Sometimes he is the hero you love to hate. You can't wait for him to get his just rewards for mistrusting or mistreating Ariane. When he finds he is wrong about her again and again, you just feel such victory that he is getting a little of his own treatment.<br />This book, as mentioned previously, reaches a little further than most romance novels do into the ill treatment of a lady. I cannot say more about this treatment because it would give away too much of the storyline. Although Ranulf's treatment of Ariane could be considered cruel or possibly abusive by today's standards, I don't think it exceeds the actual treatment medieval women had to tolerate. And please note - this ill treatment is not at all extreme or even a little kinky. Ranulf and Ariane fight a fantastic battle of wills that is absolutely the best of the best. You don't have them caught in the usual \\"I treat you like I hate you but in secret really love you\\" scenario. They are both exceptionally written characters that have a lot to work out in themselves and eventually, with each other.<br />In addition, the story line is just really good! There is no time spent on silly misunderstandings and this is definitely not formula writing! There are interesting plot twists and we get to know several secondary characters well. The secondary characters are not boring. We see the issue of trust as the core of this story.<BR> <BR>Nicole Jordan is one of my favorite authors. My choice of romance novels has evolved into choosing well-written stories with non-typical plot lines and tender romance. I want the lead characters well developed, mature, and spending time together. Although sensuality plays a part in a book selection, it is not necessary to have many sensual scenes. Jordan's writing is highly sensual compared tomost romance novels. However, as I have chosen to leave behind known sensual writers such as Susan Johnson, Robin Schone, Bertrice Small and Thea Devine, I still love to devour a Jordan book. I believe her writing is excellent and she does not allow the sensual scenes to drive the book as I perceive these other authors usually do. I rate this book about a 4.5 out of 5.0 for the sensual scenes (please see More About Me for rating guidelines). <br />This is my second time to read this book and it is the first romance novel that I have read more than once. I had no inkling that I would be so enchanted reading this the second time (it had been over a year since my first read). I did not want to put the book down and found that this is not a fast read. Those four hundred plus pages are small print with no wasted space. You cannot skip hardly a paragraph. You find yourself laughing, weeping, and cheering for the underdog and more! It is an emotional book to read and one for the keeper shelf...	2003-05-05
US	51730223	R3SDPKX2TJQ3ZI	0380769530	426927159	Untamed (Medieval Series)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A deep moving book - my very favorite historical romance	Dominic le Sabre is home from the Christian Crusades and is a national hero.  The king gives him the castle and lands of Blackthorne and arranges a marriage with Lady Margaret of Blackthorne.  Lady Margaret (Meg) accepts her fate as Dominic's wife and begins earnestly working with this new arrangement to best benefit all the people of Blackthorn.  Dominic is ready to relish this new life and desires heirs from his new wife.  Thus begins this magnificent love story you won't forget.<br />It is so refreshing to read a story about an arranged marriage in a historical novel that has two mature participants.  There is not even a shadow of the usual, overused plot lines in this type of situation.  Both Dominic and Meg sincerely long to make the marriage work and care for the other.  There is none of the spite, the betrayal, the deceit, the rudeness, the ruthlessness, and the hate on the part of the husband or wife as is routinely written in this sort of story setting. <br />Meg now ranks as my favorite heroine.  She is REAL - like a sensible, mature woman would be.  She sincerely seeks what is best for her people and her husband.  Meg portrays honesty and kindness but is not weak and does not see herself as a martyr.  She determines to allow the marriage to be the best it can be.  Of course, she realizes that the marriage can only be what Dominic allows it to be as well.<br />Dominic is magnificent as the medieval knight and new husband.  He is genuinely a great hero in many ways and demonstrates true honor.  He is also the typical type A male but we eventually see tenderness under his hard exterior.  In the beginning, Dominic has little hope that his marriage will be anything other than an arranged marriage in which he will do his part to produce heirs.  He actually propositions Meg to be his leman in the beginning of the book - mistaking Meg as a servant.  But once he finds out that Meg is his future wife, he no longer seeks a leman.<br />Elizabeth Lowell is an incredible writer.  This is not a light read.  The story is deep and the characters are very well developed.  You are literally immersed in every page.  There are few sensual scenes in the book and they occur in probably the last fourth of the book.  These scenes are wonderfully written with a great deal of beauty.  The sensual scenes rate about a 3 1/2 out of 5 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).  <br />This is a wonderfully written book with great historical detail, mysticism, likeable characters, and a fantastic plot.  It is exciting to discover this author.  She has written many books and I am anxious to read many more of her books. Untamed is first in a series of three: Untamed, Forbidden, and Enchanted.  I will definitely keep this book on my favorite shelf to read again - probably more than once - and I know that I will savor it all over again.	2003-01-07
US	51730223	RPKX75SXAWIFU	0440215935	646406005	Hunter's Moon	Books	4	18	20	N	N	One of Robards' Best - Some great story telling	Will Lyman, an agent with the FBI, has been sent to Kentucky to investigate some questionable winnings at the horse tracks.  Just when he believes he is tying up the case as they watch for the criminal to pick up their $5,000 bait money, a beautiful woman appears in the barn, looks into the sack that contains the money, and then picks it up and walks off.  Will is close to speechless.  How could such an easy assignment go so wrong and who was that woman?<br />Molly Ballard has just quit her job as groomer at the Kentucky stable and has come to pick up her final check.  She accidentally finds the bait money and on a whim - takes it!  She is beside herself with worry but is totally broke and she is responsible for the care of her four younger siblings.  She is sure that no one saw her take the money and figures it is money that was earned illegally anyway.  Within hours, a gorgeous man in a distinguished suit appears at her door sporting a FBI bag and a tape of her taking the bait money.<br />Will Lyman takes in the young lady's surroundings and determines that she is probably just plain desperate.  She lives in a very run down home and is barely surviving financially as she takes care of her two brothers and two sisters.  He decides to let her off the hook and not charge her with theft.  Then he discovers that his informant has died and returns to asks (really demands) Molly to participate in the sting operation.  To enable easy communication during the sting, Will acts the role of her boyfriend.<br />This was a really good, enjoyable story.  Karen Robards can write some good male leads and I believe Will Lyman is one of her best yet.  You just like being around this guy.  It was a stretch for me to accept that he is fifteen years older than Molly.  He has an eighteen-year-old son and it doesn't seem to fit with his other personality traits that he would be attracted to someone so much younger than himself.  Molly is supposed to be a really kind person but she treatsothers with disdain more than kindness.  She is protective and loving towards her siblings under her care but she is also quite prickly.  <br />Eventually Will and Molly develop an attraction to each other that neither has pursued but cannot ignore.  He is pure sophistication, from Chicago, and apparently lives the good life.  Molly has only a high school education, is actually poor, and has never had any real advantages in her life.  She has not been exposed to many refinements but is basically a good, hard working person.  Her prickly nature is due to many hardships as she grew up.<br />I was engrossed in this story until half way through the book.  Robards had managed to write a fresh story that was interesting on every page.  Then, without warning, the author introduces one of the most overused, maddening romance novel plot lines.  I just had to put the book down for a while.  I felt betrayed.  Molly discovers that she loves Will and realizes that there is no future for them.  She decides the best way to handle her newly found feelings is to treat him with hate.  She kicks into high hateful gear, treating Will with a huge amount of disdain when he has done nothing wrong, and doesn't speak to him unless it is with meanness.  This \\"I love you so I must treat you as I hate you\\" is one of my least favorite things about romance writing.  Fortunately, Will does not accept this treatment from her and ignores her.  He has recognized her game and will not play into it.  This contrived misunderstanding is the turning point of the book.  Although I did not appreciate this particular turn of events, I kept reading and, with relief, found this situation did not drag on for long.  This is the reason for a four star rating rather than a five star.<br />The story is actually very tender.  There are only a couple of sensual scenes and they rate no more than a three out of five (see More About Me for rating guidelines). The story does not need any more sensual pages - it is justright for the framework of the book.  <br />Although the heroine stretches the limits of realism more than once, it is a book that I would read again some day.  After all, romance writing is not very realistic.  How could we depend on those happy endings if it were not?  It is a pleasurable read with some degree of depth.  I could actually read two more books with this hero starting today!	2003-01-06
US	51730223	R27VPNSAXTXU6V	0758203187	112368527	Behind Closed Doors (The McCloud Brothers, Book 1)	Books	5	98	104	N	N	Murder Mystery & Highly Sensual - Vulnerable Leads	Behind Closed Doors is very much a non-typical romance novel! The author dedicates almost as much time to the mystery as she does the development of the leads' relationship. There are highly charged sensual scenes that come close to overshadowing the underlying romance. Yet, if we watch closely, we see both the hero and heroine as highly vulnerable. The book encompasses a great deal of maturing for both leads - especially the hero.<br />Raine Cameron is looking for her father's killer.  She has taken a job with her uncle's company to hopefully find his killer.  Seth Mackey is looking for this brother's murderer.  He is a surveillance expert and is watching Raine's uncle's company because he believes he will discover the murderer within the company.  Thus, we find Seth, on the opening page of the book, spying on Raine and finding himself closed to obsessed with her.<br />The leads meet early in the book.  Seth and Raine are good at keeping  secrets from the other.  But as their relationship develops they each open gradually and expose the despised vulnerability that lies deep within the other.  Seth was a little too mean to warrant Raine's love.  Initially, Raine allows herself to be pushed around but gradually we see her becoming more assertive.  Nevertheless, there are still times you may roll your eyes and wonder \\"Why is she allowing this?\\"  The hero certainly takes his time in becoming a nicer person but it is his ruthlessness that carries many of the sensual scenes.  These sensual scenes rate about a 4.5 out of 5 (see More About Me for rating guidelines).<BR>  <BR>If I had a choice, I would rate this book 4.5 stars instead of 5.  My reasoning is based entirely on the time dedicated to the growth of Seth and Raine's romantic relationship. Although the murder mystery was somewhat better than you find in most romance novels, it still took too many pages. The couple's relationship had a good base and capacity for growth that is never amply explored.<br />Overall, certain scenes within the book are too powerful to warrant less than a five star rating. It is certainly one of the spicier books I have read and you definitely have to be a reader that appreciates a type A, dominant male lead. The heroine does knock him off his all-powerful pedestal more than once but he always climbs back up on it. On the whole, this is a fun, entertaining read that I will keep to read again. This author is new and I expect many good books from her in the future. She somehow has developed an intriguing edge in Behind Closed Doors that is difficult to define, but captivating none the less.	2003-01-04
US	51730223	RJQDI1WDLVMSF	0821771213	683299037	To Die For	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Contemporary Perfection in an Italian Hero	Melanie George delivers a riveting and enticing novel with  \\"To Die For.\\"  Rarely have I read such a heart stopping depiction of a contemporary romance hero.  Although this story occurs in a corporate setting of a successful magazine publisher, the main characters definitely carry the majority of the story.  Often, it seems, in a romance novelist's efforts to set the environment of the novel, the reader is deluged with facts and figures and sometimes dragged down in too many details.  Most readers, I would presume, read a romance novel for the romance and we want it to be in a believable, accurate setting.  But we are not reading the book, as in this case, to learn more about publishing.  We are reading about the lives of the people who manage the publishing.  This author has created an interesting publishing arena for her story that frames a remarkable romance.<br />Abby St. James has just inherited her father's business, Bastion, a highly successful gentleman's magazine.  Abby has never been involved in her father's business and lives in Idaho.  Abby has not lived with her father since her parents' divorce when she was a child.  She has lived with her mother, caring for her until her recent death.  Abby's twin, Michaela, has both lived with her father since the divorce and has worked for his magazine.<br />Michaela has a bad reputation with men.  She has cruelly used men and actually married several older men, all who have died.  Her reputation also reaches to the magazine publishing business where she is known to be vindictive, autocratic, and impulsive to a fault.  Through her actions at work, she has alientated the publisher, Stefan Massari, and he hates working with her and distrusts her is all matters.  When Abby inherits all of the magazine company, Michaela goes to Europe for an extended vacation and Abby begins working at Bastion.  Upon her arrival at work her first day, she is blasted by the magazine's publisher, Stefan, for Michaela's actions prior to her trip to Europe.  Abby has no intention of deceiving any one about her identity, but just as Stefan has mistaken Abby for her twin, others within the company do so as well.  Almost immediately, Abby decided to keep her true identity a secret to give her time to assess the possible damage her twin has done within the company.  Needless to say, no one likes Michaela and Abby contends with her enemies within the company as well as in her personal life.<br />Stefan is appalled to find he is consistently drawn to Michaela when he has never before.  He cannot figure out what she is up to because she is no longer the hostile, demanding, and selfish woman he remembers.  Abby is a gentle spirit and as opposite her twin as possible.  She is inexperienced with men and basically a very shy person.  This is the person that Stefan is drawn to and Abby is definitely fighting a strong attraction to Stefan.<br />This book is not a light read.  It covers a lot of heavy issues such as rape, suicide, illness, sexual perversion, and murder.  It is not your typical romance novel.  I usually read several novels concurrently.  It helps me savor each story if I do not allow myself to rush through a book to see how it ends.  This, however, is one book I could not read while reading other books at the same time.  It demanded all of my attention.  I did not want to quit reading it and did read it non-stop with only one or two breaks.<br />The hero, Stefan, is certainly dreamy.  He is not so much the forceful dominant male we see so often in romances but yet he does dominate any scene he is in because of his immense self-confidence.  He is also not your typical rake - he is choosy about who he dates and does not play around just for the sex.  He has a very mature personality and carries the role of publisher of this very classy magazine easily.  He seeks to understand the motives of a person's behavior and is a well-liked and accepted manager.<br />Abby is a saint compared to her twin, Michaela.  She works hard, treats her co-workers with respect, and offers smart, sensible suggestions.  She is thoughtful and conservative and is the type of woman Stefan has always wanted.  He has the desire and need to have as his future wife a person he can take care of.  Michaela could never fit that role but this new Michaela he sees - does.  Yes, he is one confused man.<br />The romance between Abby and Stefan is bittersweet until Stefan discovers her true identity.  The two don't communicate through fighting and misunderstanding.  The growth in their relationship is truly touching.  The chemistry between the two is rich and tangible.  On a scale of one to five, the sensual scenes are a solid four (see \\"more about me\\" for sensual rating guidelines) and occur several times.<br />Any time in the book that Abby and Stefan are on the same page, you have got some great interaction going - even if it is a disagreement.  You truly feel their emotions when in each other's company.  The story is moving and heart wrenching.  Stefan is one of my favorite contemporary heroes.  I will definitely keep this book to read again at another time.  I could read it again right now.  This is the first book I have read by this author and am now looking forward to reading her other novels.  Although this book has been referred to as melodramatic, it is still a wonderful story!	2002-12-19
US	51730223	R13UD243M4HQMF	0380802600	167045660	The Proposition	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Imperfect Hero You'll Love	The Proposition is certainly a unique historical romance novel.  Throughout the first three chapters we see a most unlikely hero.  He is not a gentleman, he is not rich, he has ragged clothes, he can't speak proper English, and he is a rat catcher!  But don't let those first chapters influence you - this hero already is or will be all you want him to be.<br />Lady Edwina (Winnie) Bollash is a well-known linguist and is presented with the challenge to transform Mick Tremore into a gentleman in six weeks.  She accepts the challenge and Mick comes to stay in her home for the six-week period of training.  We soon discover that Nick is not weak, undisciplined, or without principals.  He is a person that unconsciously demands respect and he has a very good self-image.  Of course, he is impossibly handsome as well.  Soon Winnie, a spinster and a very proper daughter of a Marquess, is finding her first impression of Mr. Tremore was dead wrong.  She sees the magnificent man he is and he learns much more quickly than she thought possible because she finds he is incredibly intelligent.  A mutual attraction and admiration develops between Winnie and Mick and it soon envelops them.<br />The communication between the couple is straightforward and at times heart wrenching.  Mick is honest and up front and attempts to open Winnie's eyes to her own beauty and overall attractiveness.  It is refreshing to read a romance novel in which both the hero and heroine are imperfect individuals.  Winnie is not portrayed as a beauty although Mick believes she is.  It's good to see regular people (although Winnie is a daughter of a marquess - she has very little wealth) growing individually and together.<br />The story is told without the drama of overused ridiculous misunderstandings or lies.  Around the middle of the book, the story begins to drag (thus the 4 star rating) as Winnie talks to herself again and again about her feelings for Mick and the impossibility of a relationship between them.  Although the book dragged during this period of Winnie's self examination, I do believe a woman of her upbringing would have needed a hefty amount of self-talk if she feared she was falling in love with a rat catcher.  Even in the USA today, it would be quite a bridge to gap in six weeks.<br />We become certain that Mick will find his way once this six week period is over and whatever he chooses to do with the rest of his life will be admired by others and done with a great deal of self confidence.  The sensual scenes are few and don't come until late in the book.  But when Judith Ivory does write these times of physical intimacy, it is a definite 4 out of 5 rating (see &quot;more about me&quot; for scale guidelines).<br />While this is a story of Mick and Winnie, Mick is definitely the strongest part of the book.  He stands out because he does not have a mean nature at all and he is no less a man for it.  It is great to see such a mature and nicely rounded character - a man in a romance novel with so many good traits and with so few poor ones.  He is completely male and yet is so kind and gentle.  This is quite an accomplishment in today's romance novels.	2002-12-18
US	51730223	R2ZG3PCGQ9I4KC	0671737600	306967198	Double Standards	Books	5	58	59	N	N	An Awesome Contemporary Rake!	Double Standards is a very enjoyable contemporary novel.  It has all the ingredients for a firey romance.  A fabulous hero with rakish motives and a sharp heroine who refuses to be used come together in a fast moving, competitive corporate environment.  <br />After a powerful family member asks Lauren Danner to work undercover at Sinco, a rival company, Lauren applies for an executive secretarial position with Sinco.  Once she arrives for her interview, Lauren has already concluded that she is incapable of spying on Sinco.  Lauren then proceeds to fail all entry tests and deliberately makes a bad impression during her interview with the head of human resources.  How is she to know, after leaving the disastrous interview, that she would meet Nick Sinclair, the owner of Global Industries (the company that owns Sinco), and fall flat on her face in front of him?  Before she knows what is happening, Lauren has a job at Sinco the next day despite her deliberate attempt to botch her job interview.<br />Nick attempts to ignore Lauren and his attraction to her.  But Lauren doesn't realize who Nick is and spontaneously invites him to lunch.  From there, Nick begins his assault, attempting to seduce Lauren and she believes she is falling in love.<br />McNaught draws a vivid portrait of a bold, successful business man who owns a considerable number of large, thriving companies.  He is the typical type A confident male who thinks he has all the answers.  In his arrogance, he seeks our Lauren for an affair - nothing more.  He is a real stinker at times.  Lauren, in turn, is fascinated with Nick until she learns his true identification.  Lauren is quick and on target as she continually refuses Nick's further advances.  Others have referred to Nick's treatment of Lauren as sexual harassment.  Although I concede that Nick's words to Lauren could be considered sexual harassment, Lauren doesn't allow such treatment.  She is firm and consistent in her refusals to Nick.  She will not allow him to treat her flippantly.  You actually love hearing Lauren reject Nick - you feel he deserves it.  I am not fond of smart mouthed heroines that treat the man they secretly love with hate and meanness.  This is not how Lauren treats Nick.  Her treatment of Nick lets him know she will not allow disrespect, mistreatment, or use as a short term sexual playmate.  Her lines are delivered with dry wit and satisfaction.  McNaught does not allow her characters to wallow in silly misunderstandings or lies.  Eventually Lauren and Nick communicate honestly and lovingly.  There are a few sensual scenes that would rate about a three (see \\"about me\\" for sensual rating definition).  This story does not need many sensual scenes.  It drips with sexual chemistry.<br />The lead characters spend a lot of quality time together and we can watch their relationship grow.  There is only one thing I would have changed about this book and that is the heroine's age.  She is only 23.  In contemporary novels, I prefer the heroine at least a few years older.<br />This is a book that will delight you and you won't want to put it down.  Thanks Judith McNaught for another great story.	2002-12-17
US	51730223	R1LN8O96ZSGDCU	0440221994	50078731	As You Desire	Books	5	78	83	N	N	A Gentle, Funny, and Very Sexy Hero	It's 1890 in the Egyptian desert and a perfect setting for a touching romance.  Harry Braxton and Desdemona (Dizzy)Carlisle, both from England, have been close friends for five years and neither will admit they are desperately in love with the other.  <br />As You Desire is truly the most enjoyable book I have read from page one.  The first pages of the book grab you quickly and by page ten, you are swept up in Harry and Dizzy's relationship and laughing and sighing over the fantastic hero, Harry.  The first half of the book had me laughing again and again.<br />The synopsis on the back of the book refers to Harry as a notorious rake.  I did not see him in this manner.  He has a real heart and his character is written well as a very desirable but concientious man. He adores Dizzy but hides from her a problem that he fears would repulse her.  Reading the book, I did not understand the seriousness of his problem, but once I finished the book, I read the author's notes at the end of the book and realized that his problem was considered to be very significant in 1890.  I suggest that you read the author's notes before beginning the book to understand many of Harry's feelings.<br />Dizzy has thrown herself at Harry three years earlier and he had refused her advances due to her young age and his hidden problem.  She was a child genius and is now a talented translator of ancient manuscripts.  She is a very likable heroine and is embarassed by her earlier overtures that Harry declined.  She longs to return to England someday.<br />Harry and Dizzy enjoy their close friendship.  When Harry's handsome cousin comes to visit him from England, he fears Dizzy is slipping away from him and sees her welcoming his cousin's attentions.  The romance between Harry and Dizzy develops quickly at this point and it is one of the sweetest I have read.  Connie Brockway is a fantastic author and does no formula romance writing.  Everything about this book is fresh and unusual.  Although I feared some misunderstandings arising towards the middle of the book, this author simply does not write silly misunderstanding between her love leads as we so often see in historical romance novels.  Harry and Dizzy are each very hesistant to reach beyond the confines of their friendship.  They communicate well and don't get lost in lies.  There is a beautiful sensual scene between the two that I would rate about a three (see more about me for these guidelines) but this is a story that does not need additional sensual writing.<br />The action of this book is quick for the first half, then falters for another fourth of the book and then picks back up to deliver a very satisfying ending.  This is a book you will probably want to save to read again someday.  I read many books each week and find I remember few storylines.  This is one story that has stayed with me for months now.  It is simply outstanding.	2002-12-11
