US	51740940	R1O77Q7KWR9N80	0763745537	354680650	100 Questions & Answers About Myeloma	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Excellent initial resource book about MM	This small book represents  a very tidy, concise, informative introduction to this rare disease, multiple myeloma.  It is a very complicated disease process, and whether you have some basic medical knowledge or not, the reader will appreciate  how easy it is to extract information and answers to questions. <br /> <br />Written by a physician specializing in the disease and a patient who has experienced the worst of what this disease can offer,  together they deliver  hope and basic knowledge so a patient, care giver or relative can make informed decisions. <br /> <br />I am personally inspired by the patient (and author) James W Huston. There are real and promising treatments and he quite simply embodies the term survivor.    I would like to express my appreciation to Dr. A Bashey as well.  I urge you to get this book as a excellent  first resource to aid you and your family or friends  in the fight against myeloma.	2005-05-21
US	51740940	RA6V216W9MNVH	0684865696	445693901	Mountain Time : A Novel	Books	2	7	11	N	N	story interuptus	Scanning some of the reviews, I notice I felt many of the same impressions as other readers with this book.  I just finished the trilogy, _Dancing at the Rascal Fair_, _English Creek_, and _Ride with Me, Mariah Montana_.  The first two were the best, the last was so-so, and _Mountain Time_ just fell flat. <br /> <br />I found the conversations annoying, especially between Mitch's daughter and Mitch.The jargon was forced and  very unflattering to the characters.  The book was somewhat stiff to get into, but my respect for Mr. Doig encouraged me on.  When the story line gets to Montana, it does pick up a bit and become more promising.  The best part was the 3 day back pack trek into the mountains to scatter the ashes of Mitch's dad. Unfortunately, the cadence did not sustain itself, and the ending was spiritless. <br /> <br />Some considerations bothered me.  For instance, I kept waiting to find out the cryptic reason Lyle was so intent on making Mitch promise to scatter his ashes up on  the look out tower. I expected some message to be written on the walls, or some other justification for such an insistent request by the father, Lyle  to be fulfilled by his son, Mitch. Another let down was the bit about the torn up camp site that the 3 characters come upon during their hike up the mountain, allegedly by a grizzly bear. We have torn up sleeping bags, (where's the bodies?) and a ripped up teepee.  Alas, I thought!! A little action, mystery, hey, the story is going to pick up now..!! <br /> <br />But..,not exactly.. <br /> <br />It looked promising for a while  when they scuffled over the old man's ashes, and Mitch got seriously hurt.  Lexa made the brave decision to be the one to hike out off the mountain for help, against the odds of time,  weather and the elements to save her lover. Leaving her cutie sister, Mariah up in the watch tower as the nurse, the story alludes very suddenly to romance between her and Mitch. What?  He has a broken leg, little food, stinky armpits and no alcohol.  This was just too hard to swallow.. but it did suggest the story might improve.  <br /> <br />But, ok, now Lexa is hiking down, the weather is worsening, food is low, she is exhausted and what is lurking in the woods but that big huge woolly grizzley bear.  OK!! ACTION! <br /> <br />But, noooo..... <br /> <br />Suddenly the story is about over, Mitch is saved,  Lexa is on the outs in  favor of Mariah, and one feels the story can't get much worse when you have to read these side line reflections of Bob Marshall.  (Who is Bob, many of you may ask?)   <br /> <br />The last 15 pages you hope for some kind of conclusion to all these loose ends.. does Mitch repair his relationship with his kids, and if there is no furthur mention of them, why bring them in at all?  There is the rushed explainations of the hobby buisnesses of Lyle and how he makes his tire irons (I didn't care) and this abrupt resumption of Mitch's and Lexa's love affair.  All this in a fatal gasping ending. <br /> <br />Mr Doig, I loved your personal history books, _Heart Earth_ and _This House of Shy_.  They were exquisite representations of the beautiful Montana area and a wonderful accounting of your incredible family.  I promise not to let this book disappoint me so much that I won't read you again, indeed I am going to start your other books next. <br /> <br />It is just that this story was, well, a story interuptus..	2005-05-13
US	51740940	R36ZYYMZPKCGJJ	0767904982	404856428	Running to the Mountain: A Midlife Adventure	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Risking it on the mountains	With a fine sense of humor, Jon Katz reveals his most innermost feelings when he explores the purchase of a crumbling, dilapidated mountain top cabin in upstate New York. Jon, an author,  is not a talented handy man around the home. It appears  he can barely screw in a light bulb, not to mention his weak skills  balancing  a check book. Obviously catered and emotionally indulged  by his wife, it is a strong reflection of his love for her that he takes on the job of becoming not only responsible financially, but challenging and accomplishing simple things like scrubbing a toilet and cooking dinner. Later, he takes on tougher skills of gardening and basic home maintainance. <br /> <br />His emotional torture is the realization that the couple can barely afford the luxury (?) of a second home, especially one with significant needs. His prolonged assault of  ponderous concerns weigh heavily on him as he goes through the decision of actual purchase and facing the extensive renovations ahead of him. He perceives the purchase as an escape for which he can write his novels, articles and self-exploratory memoirs yet the sacrifice he is inflicting on his wife and daughter disturbs his decision making processes. But his love for the home and the mountain lure him and with excessive reflection of his motives and writings of Thomas Merton, he bites the bullet and signs on the doted line. <br /> <br />Central to his development are his extraordinary blond labradors and their day to day activities. A black lab owner myself, I found this the most charming aspect of his  life style. There is something so deeply penetrating in one's love for their dog, and it was quite palpable in the experiences they shared together. Special kudos to his patient and loving wife, Paula who understood when to let go and trust in her man. Their daughter, Emma, friends Jeff and Michele, and the incredible townsfolk round out a very lovely story of growth and achievement.  Jon's writing skills truly mademe feel as if I too, was sitting in his front yard, sipping scotch and watching the mountains looming in the distance.  He just may tug of few of you out of your hum drums, and provoke you as well to purchase your little cabin in the mountains.	2005-01-12
US	51740940	R162U4SXWPCOCR	0312253648	104824053	4,000 Days: My Life and Survival in a Bangkok Prison	Books	4	0	4	N	Y	Still serving a life sentence	This is a  disturbing account of unspeakable human abuse delivered to the prisoners from Thailand's prisons.  There is no way I can  understand the risk and punishment Warren went through.<br />It is obvious after reading this book that Warren Fellows served a life sentence after all.	2004-04-29
US	51740940	R13HCO14Q4UMTC	0385721420	120680919	Three Junes	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Subtle, thought provoking family dynamics	_Three Junes_ is a story about a prominent Scottish family, their relationships with each other and the various people they connect with in their lives. The theory of the &quot;three junes&quot; signifies 3 separate and poignant summers in the character's lives.<br />In the beginning of the novel, the shortest chapter introduces Paul, a recent widower attempting to reconcile the loss of his beloved wife and the lingering insecurities he has felt as a father to his children and the fidelity of his late wife.  Some of these impressions are deeply subtle, and for some readers, this can be frustrating and unfulfilling.  I feel, however, it is an adequate and realistic representation of how most family members relate to each other.  Afraid to shake up supposed harmony, family members will go to great lengths to suppress disturbing impressions and the past.<br />The next and more satisfying part of the novel is about Paul's oldest son, Fenno.  Paul is still trying to come to terms with the young man's homosexuality, where his late wife knew early on in the boy's life where his true nature was.  Fenno's story is the meat of the novel, rich and substantial.  His life is a careful ballet to avoid &quot;the plague&quot; (AIDS) and his sacrifices are a heavy weight. The relationships he developes with his brothers, their wives, their children, his friends and lovers are bright, humorous and heartbreakingly real.  A favor requested of Fenno by one of his brothers and sister-in law adds an aching dimension to Fenno's life as he struggles to fit in amongst the family reunion at his father's funeral.  Here is where subtle family events are teasingly implicated, discussed but not entirely resolved.  Again, my sentiments are that this is so appropriate, so reflective of how families actually behave.  <br />The last third of the novel was my least favorite, and I see this reflected in other's reviews.  It would be tidy to validate the connection of Fern, a young, pregnant,  widowed woman that Fenno meets through his friends and buisness associates.  But, as the reader, we know the connection.  The book's ending is reflective and suggestive.  There is no great bang.  Could there be?  I understand the need for many to need that, and I craved it as well.  But, here, again is another reflection of real life...it goes on, and neatly tied up loose ends are uncommon.<br />After reading this novel, and the reviews, I feel it may be helpful to say if you don't want to read a cryptic, thought provoking, open-ended novel, this may not be for you.<br />_Three Junes_ is subtle and unfortunately for those  craving resolution and finality, this may be troublesome.	2004-04-27
US	51740940	R3IUEONDFFWA22	0375758992	837040016	Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight: An African Childhood	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Not your typical family	Alexandra Fuller delivers an intense recollection of her childhood in Rhodesia during the 1971-79 civil war.  Her parents, originally from England, manage to thrive working on ranches and farms while rearing their children to be hearty, self-sufficient and weapon savvy.  This is not a life style a typical family could handle, but their ability to find humor, love and appreciation for the land they live on is evident in their commitment to stay no matter what the cost.<br />The author has an amazing ability to reconstruct the sights, smells and people of the many towns and villages in which they lived.   With great humor she reviews &quot;ranches or farms&quot; her father and mother chose to buy or rent.  Beautiful compounds, complete with swimming pools,  tended gardens, barns, corrals and servant quarters fallen into unimaginable states of disrepair serve as home for the family.  It is difficult  work to rehabilitate these places, and the endurance of the family is remarkable.  <br />Danger and risk appear to be the spice for this family.  Choosing to remain firmly planted as the war accelerates is an astonishing decision, especially in light of the quirky parental personalities standing at the helm.  Ms. Fuller remembers her life with humor, sensitivity and a palpable love for her African childhood.	2004-04-12
US	51740940	R1ROIMGXSWSRDG	0316789844	35085155	Resistance: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Love and Resistance	In the foreground of WWII,  a young wife named Claire Daussois and her husband, Henri are members of an underground resistance movement in a small Belgian village.  There is little romance between the two, indeed Claire takes extreme precautions to prevent conception, fearful of bringing a child into the unpredictable chaos of war.  Commited as they are to the resistance, one feels the emptiness of their relationship, and in this environment falls Ted Brice, an American pilot, injured in a crash landing of his plane in their town of Delahaut.<br />Saved by a spunky ten year old Jean Benoit, he manages to find his way to the Daussois home.  There he is placed in protective hiding and must face his future at the hand of strangers.<br />A tense story line unfolds as the town is caught up in the deception.  Who can you trust?  Citizen turns against citizen and everything is at stake.  One must realize that this kind of activity happened.  This is not just fiction, but based on realities of many villages across Europe and the horror of it all is almost unbearable.<br />There is love in the hole of hell itself.  There is forgiveness and strength in moving on.  This is a lovely novel of a time many of us have no knowledge of.  Therefore, it is very important to contemplate these stories, for in so many other words, most of them did happen.  There was just no one left to write the story.	2004-03-29
US	51740940	R2HUEMVRZ59TOB	0679762876	762993057	Tracks: A Woman's Solo Trek Across 1700 Miles of Australian Outback	Books	5	11	13	N	N	the outback, a faithful dog, 4 camels and aboriginal magic	There are few adventurous people that by-pass the luxury of their diesel-pushers to experience the likes of what Robyn Davidson embarks on as the challenge of a lifetime.  That is precisely what makes this book so phenomenal.<br />Granted, this adventure took place in 1980, but the age of the event changes nothing of the experience.<br />Roughly structured, and for her reasons only, she embarks on a 1,700 mile trek across the outback to the ocean from Alice Springs.  Her transportation?  Camels!<br />The most fascianting part of this trip is she must learn about these amazing creatures from scratch.  She moves to Alice Springs and sets forth to find those that are willing to teach her the camel business. Some of these teachers are of worthy content and impart essential knowledge.  Robyn, however appears to be a natural with these animals, and a relationship with them developes that draws the reader into the story and through every foot of the trip.  Her  chosen camels have strong personalities.  Her unique writing style capture their wonderful, quirky  attitudes that lures the reader in a feeling of acquiantance.  It is not difficult to feel her fondness of these creatures and her heartbreak when difficult times develope.   Her sincere appreciation and love for the camels provides delightful distraction and imparts great humor and solice on her desert quest.<br />Special mention must be made to her best female friend, Diggity. This incredible dog was her lifeline and her mainstay through many trying days and nights in the bush.  Diggity's personality was beautifully captured by Robyn's recollections and will tweak the heart of any dog lover.<br />Robyn's ability to bring the aboriginal people and outback to life as she treks across it's vastness is truly astounding.  After I finished her book, I immediately went back to amazon.com and ordered every single book and reference she wrote.  Her amazing zest and appreciation for the life in th outback of Australia was exhilarating.  I urge you to read a truly moving, tear jerking, humorous, insightful and generally captivating novel that bespeaks of the ultimate travel experience one can ever hope to conjure.  Thank you Robyn!!<br />Highly recommended for an enhanced reading experience:<br />_From Alice to Ocean; Alone Across the Outback_  photographed by Rick Smolan; with excerpts from Robyn Davidson's bestselling _Tracks_	2004-03-29
US	51740940	R3I8B6Q2QFIEFY	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Painting words	Over 650 people have taken time to write a review on this amazing novel, a large majority offering the highest of ratings.  Their reviews are substantial and I recognize my contribution would be repetitious.  The novel was exquisite.<br />On a personal level, I was presented the novel by my daughter.  She informed me she read it  &quot;cover to cover&quot; in one night and offered that I may enjoy it as well.  Within a few days, I noticed her in the backyard examining calla lillies.  Soon, she was requesting a canvas and taking out her stash of paints.  Sketching a replica of the lillies, she spoke of the subtleties of colors and the teachings of Vermeer that were passed on to his maid in the content of the novel.  Searching for ways to covey the finer points of the book without betraying the ending, she was clearly irritated by my comments to not give way the plot.  It was easily resolved with reading the book. <br />I, too, felt as enchanted as many of the 650 readers.  Everything about the book captivated me; the dutch history of the 1600's, what it could have been like for a poor maid to integrate in a  large household of  a prominent artist   and the intricate process of how a painting is conceived and completed.<br /> I was urged to research more intensely Vermeer and his works  which were easily satisfied via the internet.   Vermeer's biography (what little of it available) and the pictures of his paintings truly rounded out the experience of reading the book.<br />For an entertaining novel that  could  be enjoyed  on a long afternoon,  I could recommend none other.  After you finish the book, visit those sites that offer the representations  of the works of Vermeer or, if you are fortunate enough, make sure to see the original pieces in your lifetime.  Thanks to this novel, it has lit the candle of interest and appreciation.	2004-03-29
US	51740940	R3NMWT1N4B5P3H	0451207874	434080422	When You Go Away (Nal Accent Novels)	Books	5	3	6	N	Y	What if........	What if...<br />what if...you had a happy marriage, two healthy kids and a third on the way.  You lived in an upper middle class Oakland outskirt utopia and had a wealthy mother in law that doted on your kids, even though she was a pain in the a--  sometimes.  She was worth tolerating.<br />what if...you still had boiling unresolved feelings of your father leaving your beloved, wholesome, adored mother for a life of random affairs and self-centered actualization.<br />what if... your mother dies at an early age, you are still a young mother longing for her love and support , holding fast to an anger to father for leaving all of you..<br />what if....your third child is born with cerebral palsy,  and other disorders that literally consume all your attention, a great deal of the family dynamics and the husband's longing for the life before the birth of this child.  The price of the child is too high, the husband can not fulfill himself in this selfless village, and he takes flight.  A divorce occurs, and unbelieveably, he remarries and deserts not only his family but all financial responsibility...<br />what if .....this was happening to you?<br />How angry, depressed, hopeless and alone could you possibly feel when the real estate lady places a  &quot;sold&quot; sign  in front of the only home your children have known, and the only source of income you now have is a question mark.  Because, he has left you and taken everything.  Your life, your hopes, your dreams.  And left  you with his children (HOW COULD HE DO THAT!) unsupported, one virtually on life and death from day to day.<br />Oh, but he did.  And, say your freaked out one day...took the keys in a moment of dispair and drove away.  That very act was worse than all the horrible things your husband has done to you and his own children.  It will be you that must pay the price for a mental breakdown that should have weighed  heavily on the back of a man too weak to take it. <br />This is a novel that will wake you with a new attitude.  Read it.	2004-03-29
US	51740940	R3M6JP9YZU1TEV	0099876809	762993057	Tracks	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The outback, a faithful dog, 4 camels and aboriginal magic	There are few adventurous people that by-pass the luxury of their deisel-pushers to experience the likes of what Robyn Davidson embarks on as the challenge of a lifetime.  That is precisely what makes this book so phenomenal.<br />Granted, this adventure took place in 1980, but the age of the event changes nothing of the experience.<br />Roughly structured, and for her reasons only, she embarks on a 1,700 mile trek across the outback to the ocean from Alice Springs.  Her transportation?  Camels. <br />The most fascinating part of this trip is she must learn about these amazing creatures from scratch.  She moves to Alice Springs and sets forth to find those that are willing to teach her the camel buisness.  Some of these teachers are of worthy content and impart essential knowledge.  Robyn, however appears to be a natural with these animals, and a relationship with them developes that draws the reader into the story and through every foot of the trip.  Her chosen camels have strong personalities, and this delightful distraction imparts great humor and solice on her quest.<br />Special mention must be made to her best female friend, Diggity.  This incredible dog was her lifeline and her mainstay through many trying days and nights.  Diggity's personality was beautifully captured by Robyn's recollections,  and will tweak the heart of any dog lover.<br />Robyn's ability to bring the aboriginal people and outback to life as she treks across it's vastness is truly astounding.  After I finished her book, I immediately went back onto Amazon.com and bought every single book and reference she wrote or participated in.  Her amazing zest and appreciation for the life in the outback of Australia was exhilarating.  I urge you to read a truly moving, tear jerking,  humorous, enlightling and generally captivating novel that bespeaks of the ultimate travel experience one can ever hope to conjure.  Thank you, Robyn!	2004-03-18
US	51740940	R38N1ZH583B91Q	0792718062	957325974	Where or When (Curley Large Print Books)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	What Price to Pay	It has been said that middle age brings turmoil and discontent with love.  However, at what price is one, far into their 40's or 50's willing to pay for a chance at finding the flickering possiblility of a younger (teenage) love of long ago?<br />For most responsible persons, the price is far too high.  In this novel, the price is not.  Charles Calahan recognizes the picture of a girl he met at camp, and that is all it takes for him to toss aside wife, family with small children, home, business and township respect. Intrigued by the recollection, he begins to write the woman named Sian Richards, successfully seducing her into meeting him at a romantic hotel.  The initial correspondences are met with trepidation, but between the two of them a line is crossed and they  decide to meet, they flaunt, they flirt, they ....<br />A psychological peek at middle-aged angst, the novel scratches irritantly for those who play by the rules, those never willing to risk losing the people they love most.  For Charles and Sian, the price is high.  What they do not know is just how high it is going to get.	2004-03-18
US	51740940	R1H7CKO9NEVR53	0156007665	187733636	Field Guide	Books	3	0	1	N	N	not enough slogging in the outback	This is a cerebrally-rich novel delving into the mindset of a young female grad student  researching spectacled fruit bats in Australia.  For those interesting in detailed experiences slogging it out in the outbush, you may be disappointed.  A minimum of scientific data presents in the story content, and even less of the bountiful data of the Australian outback.  Instead, this novel appears to focus on the feelings of a young woman coming to grips of the mysterious death of an older brother, missing her older sister, coping with prissy room mate grad students and managing her lust for her intriguing professor, John Goode.<br />In the course of all this mind slush, is the curve ball.  John Goode, the typical absent minded type professor goes missing.  This is nothing unusual for him, he is quirky, often takes off for over-lingering research jaunts and is also suffering remorse as a result of an affair recently committed which has decimated his family.<br />The elder son, Leon travels back home to Australia from America to search for his father.  In the course of the investigation, he meets Annabel, a name he was given that could shed some light on his father's disappearance.  The inevitable attraction occurs while the search for answers continues.  The formula for a ripping novel was there, but it just didn't get off the guano.	2004-03-18
US	51740940	RSULGKF6PDF2K	0333907159	8148905	The Climb: Tragic Ambitions on Everest	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	the cost of standing on the top of the world	The more I read about the tragic days on Everest @May 10, 1996, the more I find myself needing to understand what motivated these people to climb, to risk their lives and to feel what it is like to be on the &quot;roof of the world&quot;.<br />This novel focuses on the efforts of Anatoli, who participated in a major way to the survival and recovery of some of the victims from that fateful day.  His story is reflected with precision and  climbing minutiae that provides credibility for the more critically informed reader.  This was a significant mountain tragedy that prompted important re-evaluation of the sport of making it to the top of Everest.	2004-03-18
US	51740940	R33FCYBNFCEZ3K	0767915054	358484575	A Girl Named Zippy	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Childhood, revisited	Morning television viewers familiar with Today's Book Club endorsements  were introduced to Haven Kimmel and her  recollections of \\"growing up small\\" in Mooreland, Indiana.  I  was familiar with the author by her previous novel,  _The Solace of Leaving Early_ .  Her  writing is beautiful, and in anticpation of another good read,  I purchased _A Girl Named Zippy_.   Captivated with the picture of a big eared, cross-eyed,  bald and grinning baby on the cover,   I began to  read and happily shared what it was like growing up again in 1965.<br />Haven Kimmel reached back into her childhood and gave us a picture-book of written memories  perfectedly presented in age appropriate style.  In a time before computers were in every house, her rememberances were a personal jolt back to my younger years and to recall just what we did with our imaginations and the way we processed the very confusing adult world  where children were not indulged and incessantly reassured.<br />As in most childhoods, there is joy, pain and traumatic events.  The least notable moment in the daily life of a young girl  appealed  most, for it is there that Kimmel's eloquence dominates, revealing the intensity of 8 year old Zippy.  Short chapters, highlighted  with  germane photographs of the family/person/place/event  augment furthur the kickback experience to a healthy, wholesome childhood.  This is a must read for anyone longing to revisit their younger years and feel what it was like to be a kid again.	2004-02-10
US	51740940	R3A1LS8CAVKAWO	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The story starts with the cover and just gets better!	It started with the cover...<br />What could this be?  A  young man, rolled up into the fetal position in the rear of a small lifeboat and a TIGER (?) at the bow?  Floating on a spacious body of water, the cover screams for explanation. <br />And what an explanation!<br />Get ready for one of the most entertaining, original stories in the last 5 years.Yann Martel tells a tale of  16 year old Pi, from Pondicherry, India as he and his family  make a life changing decision to sell their zoo and animals to emigrate to Canada.  Pi's family were devoted to their animals, and they have been  well cared for  during their lives at the Indian zoo.  In the family's last gesture of love and responsibility, they also board the Japanese cargo ship which is to carry the animals to their new homes in zoos of North America.  The family plans to care for them in transit, as the trip will be stressfull and the cargo workers are not  adept at handling the diverse range of creatures.<br />Unfortunately, the ship sinks.  Pi finds himself barely alive, clinging to a life boat after the cargo workers threw him overboard as bait for a hyena trapped in the life boat they wanted for themselves.  The story now becomes one of survival as Pi also finds himself housed with a seriously wounded zebra, a beloved orangutan and the huge 450 pound Bengal tiger by the name of Richard Parker.  (name explained in the content.) And, let us not forget, the very hungry, agitated hyena.<br />Not lost in the survival adventure, is the strength and  loving nature of Pi.  His love for his family and his religion (s), the attention he paid to caretaking of the zoo animals serves to be the key to his survival while drifting 227 days on a 26 foot lifeboat.  Intense and horror filled days and nights are eloquently revealed as Pi struggles to make it one more day in a situation so unbelievable that it reads believable.  <br />Stunning, magnificent, perfection!!  Pay attention to how many people have read this novel,the glowing reviews and the sales success.  You will not be disappointed by this incredible book.	2004-02-03
US	51740940	RNXU0QW76EV4S	0312313624	187837315	Final Arrangements: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	taking it in the end	There is, for many people, myself included, an interest in death.  This is the first book I have ever read that gave me the DETAILS of what actually happens to the body after death in a funeral home.<br />I was especially intrigued by a disclaimer the author wrote stating that if this book fell into your hands after a death of a loved one, he apologized and gave his sincere regrets.  I was fairly certain that what I was going to read about how a body was processed after death was  realistic. By the time I made it to page 21, I had read most of it out loud to my medical colleagues.  There was no way I could contain myself and NOT share exactly what occurs during body embalming.  Like most things uncomfortable, it was imperative to share, and quite frankly, laugh out loud in the response to the characters.<br />The novel itself is quirky fun, and it is not without respect for the dead.  As with all things that are distasteful, to inject humor makes the topic much more palatable.  The novel introduces Casey Kight, who suffered the loss of his parents in a plane crash and found sincere comfort in the funeral home of Morton-Albright Funeral Home and Memorial Chapel in Angel Shores, Florida.   Circumstances happened that as a small boy the day of his parent's services, he was gifted a key to the Funeral Home by the funeral director as an  attempt to distract the young, distraught boy from his grief of his parents horrible death.<BR>The boy, Casey, never forgot the generosity.  Nor did he ever let go of the key to the funeral home.  It became a symbol to hold on tightly during moments of insecurity and fear.  Casey and the key managed to bring him through puberty and to age 21, when he qualified for application in a position at the Morton-Albright Funeral Home.  On the day of his 21st birthday, he went to the home and sought employment, laying carefully the key wrapped in the giver's handkerchief that the director, Jerry Stiles had given him on the funeral day of his parents onto to the man's desktop. This act was in response to the question from Jerry as to  what brought Casey here to apply for the position.<br />Casey's sincereity insured admission.  The funeral home stood for the highest ethics and respect for death.  Aside from such respect, the many characters that worked for the funeral home were all family, and these people provided the humor and sincereity that bonded the place together.<br />Part mystery, part love story, part reality, the novel is a revealing and entertaining story from a relatively unknown field.  Fresh, (if you pardon the reference) and quite delightful, it is an original peak at what happens when our lights go out.	2004-02-02
US	51740940	R3GQ1OB652XZ2D	0451205758	445233978	The Matter of Grace (Nal Accent Novels)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An Obvious Matter	This novel is about a woman who tries to conceal her eating disorder and her very close friends that basically allow her to do so for quite a long time.<br />In Oakland, Grace and 3 of her local swim club buddies make  a strong friendship over the years.  Nearly every day they see each other and share each other's sorrows and happiness.  In the beginning of their friendship Grace divulges a story of surviving cancer.  When her weight begins to plummet and she appears to be a walking cadaver, she reluctantly admits the  cancer  is raging nearly out of control.  Her friends, without question, accept her story.  There is little reason not to, until, as time goes on, things just do not seem to make sense.<br />However, it is a subject which is difficult to deal with.  Each of the other women have their own problems, some worse than the other.  While trying to do the best they can with their problems (divorce, pregnancy, etc) the matter of Grace becomes more convoluted.<br />In truth, such a problem can get pretty complicated before it is dealt with. Finally accepting warnings from others that Grace may be suffering from an eating disorder, the group of women plan an intervention. Without a solid structure, commitment and professional intervention, the attempt  falls apart, leaving the group impotent to furthur confrontation.<br />The reality of Grace is that the disease is a process that continues unmercifully.  It is also understood that eating disorder patients may also have drug, alcohol and self-mutilation addictions.  The matter of Grace is beyond this clique of 4.  The matter of Grace is beyond Grace.<br />I welcome and applaud the efforts of Jessica Barksdale Inclan to bring forth the issue of eating disorders.  As a nurse and personally involved with a close relative with the eating disorder, I appreciate any and all efforts to educate the public about this problem.  The book holds the worthy NAL accent and will enhance the understanding of eating disorders,  recognition and treatment.  It is up to all of us not to turn away and explore the possiblility of eating disorders.  We may not be able to cure, but we can understand, accept , love and be supportive for those that suffer in the same problems such as the matter of Grace.	2004-02-02
US	51740940	R3L8ZCJYSK4PQZ	0312320264	656280487	The Chili Queen: A Novel	Books	3	9	9	N	Y	con artists in the old west	I am a lover of Sandra Dallas'  books, especially _The Diary of Mattie Spenser_.  Those who love western novels written in the 1800's should check out her work. <br />_The Chili Queen_ takes place in Nalgitas, New Mexico in the 1860's.  It is fairly evident from the start that someone is trying to swindle someone. The roof over most of them is called The Chili Queen, which is basically your standard bed bug infected whorehouse. The characters are colorful and  entertaining enough to keep the novel lively.   There is Addie, a buxom madame in charge of her &quot;girls'&quot; in the house of compromised repute.  Meet Ned Partner, her lover and known outlaw/bankrobber/hustler-but nice guy.  Also, pathetic Emma, a gawky helpless spinster left at the altar by a mail order husband and her abusive brother, John, who apparantly has sold her to some guy and likewise cheated her of her rightful inheritance. Most notable, a black slave employed as the housemother of  the Chili Queen named Welcome reigns considerable authority over the group.<br />The ultimate question is that something is going on, and someone is doing something not right, but who is it, and is it a he or she?<br />A purely entertaining novel, this will not change your life or be the best book you have ever read, but it is fun and worth the time.  Enjoy.	2004-02-01
US	51740940	RLJE25PHCIIX	0060953748	154462447	River Town: Two Years on the Yangtze	Books	5	4	6	N	N	peace corps in China, on the River Town Fuling	I would imagine this novel to be a \\"must read\\" for any Peace <BR>Corps volunteer.  While it may be more pertinent for a volunteer going to the East, it certainly offers general practices that would be helpful for any corpsman in route to any country.  <br />In 1996, Peter Hessler and fellow teacher and volunteer Adam Meier began their two year teaching assignment in Fuling, China. Fuling is part of the Sichuan province and is located on the Yangtze River.  Both volunteers assume positions at the local college known for it's literature studies.  The town is quite secluded as far as visitors go, and Peter, with his very tall, thin, lumbering stature, and Adam with his solid structure create a mini-pandemonium wherever they go.<br />Peter documents his visit in a humorous and respectful tone.  Noting the differences between western and eastern lifestyles and values, he offers events in which he is compromised and events in which he excels.  Relishing his victory of a track and field event, he quickly discovers it is best to be humble and backs off all future racing challenges.  <br />Teaching in a communist school presents interesting challenges as well as the expected difficulties of learning the language (very complicated) and learning how to communicate simply to accomplish the most basic of housekeeping functions.  The students are ripe with in bred political jargon, and Peter must walk a tight line when topics are reviewed that may compromise the Chinese belief system.  It is not an infrequent occurance that Peter and Adam are warned that their classes and lectures have exceeded the tolerance of the cadres. In these accounts, it is the responses of the students that delights the reader and teacher alike.  It is in the description of the students and how they cope with their responsibilities that is so tender.  Many have very difficult family problems and many are subject to extreme stress to excel.  These expectations lead to devastating results for those few anda glimpse into the world of Chinese expectations.  There are serious ramifications for those students who transgress, especially for premarital sex. If caught, this violation follows them for their entire employment lifetime not to mention the ostracism that takes place within the family.<br />Peter takes on  the town of Fuling on the Yangtze  with  passion.  He quickly sets up a rigorous schedule to learn the language.  He also ventures out of the  safe confines of the college campus into the city of Yuling.  He draws a crowd everywhere he goes, people stare, some yell disparaging comments and on many early occasions he experienced very negative receptions.  Persistence on Peter's behalf prevailed, however, and in time he and Adam both began to make friends outside of the campus which enriched their lives and exposed them to the true Chinese lifestyle.<br />There are many aspects of this book that was enjoyable.  Peter gave lovely accounts of his ventures off into the countryside where he  hiked for days and met  many lovely folk that opened up their homes and life experiences to him.  Descriptions of his travels were especially interesting.  As Americans, we are usually bathed in travel comfort, but in China it is not so.  Peter effectively describes boat transportation along with a pack of rats and rail travel that would render one a cripple.  Do not miss his description of taxi travel in town....you will NEVER complain about New York taxi drivers again!<br />Archaeological facts were interjected which definitely enhanced the reading experience and I especially appreciated the historical background that was also introduced appropriately throughout the book.<br /> Peter also shared his friendships that he made in Fuling.  It was very interesting to follow these people in the course of several years.  Peter was able to learn initimate details about how the Chinese handle personal relationships and how their country's birth control laws influence them. Peter very respectfully revealed these friendships and for the reader it was a very nice effect.    All these experiences fully complimented Peter's assignment in Fuling, China and I am not surprised to see he is living in Beijing, China and acting as a regular contributor to _The New Yorker_.	2004-01-03
US	51740940	R3EY2NP0087MOG	0345340426	669379389	J.R.R. Tolkien Boxed Set (The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Eternal Entertainment	I would have to say there is no other book that has repeatedly made an appearance throughout the course of my life than _The Lord_.<br />Even _Alice in Wonderland_, _The Tale of Two Cities_ and  other such literary notables fail to take precedence over _The Lord_!<br />It  effectively became part of my high school memories as we passed the book about, nearly a cult hit amongst us all.<br />The joke was on us when we learned how long ago it had been published.<br />I watched as my kids caught the fever and passed the same book about.  Now, it is a cinematic celebration and the editions go on and on.  It is quite an achievement for a novel to take on such notoriety and I am  grateful that I was able to have the opportunity to enjoy the read, as well as the movie.	2003-12-06
US	51740940	R1IJ8R2DC44XQ8	0740721135	995513967	The Complete Far Side: 1980-1994	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Best Medicine	Can anyone with a sense of humor not appreciate and cherish the contribution of  Gary Larson?  <br />His work is brilliant and hysterically funny.  It is without a doubt genius in humor.  This book is well worth the price.  Let us not forget that  laughter, aside from being the best medicine,  is essential to all humans and should be done as often as possible.  Especially by your bosses.<br />PS- don't give this to anyone that had abdominal or thoracic surgery.	2003-11-28
US	51740940	R1ZXN9VHYFKCVA	0786711582	150363797	The Hillside Stranglers	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Killer Cousins	When I moved from northern california to southern california, I thought I was escaping from the current  &quot;missing young women&quot; events dominating the headlines at the time.  Theodore Bundy was making his mark in the northwest and the terror easily spread down to Humboldt County.  I recall being warned by a local detective to be vigilant as the women targeted appeared similar to myself.  So, it was with a sense of security that I departed the north for the south.<br />However, there was no escaping the similar circumstances in southern california.  The so called &quot;Hillside Strangler&quot; was gripping the area with fear as more and more young women were found discarded like a bag of rubbish on the roadsides.  When the case finally broke, the next  surprise was it was handsome, smooth talking Kenneth Bianchi AND his cousin, Angelo Buono.  The similarity between Kenneth and Theodore Bundy struck me at the time, but the more disturbing aspect of the case was the how these two cousins systematically developed a routine for abusing and ultimately murduring their helpless victims.<br />The book written by Darcy O'Brien  expertly delves into these tragic murders.  Profiling two of the most heinous killers in recent times, the author could never provide an answer as to why these things happen to innocent people  nor provide a sense of comfort to the family survivors.  Ms. O'Brien expounds quite efficiently with clues, insights and background into the personalities of the killer cousins and the details surrounding the crimes.	2003-11-25
US	51740940	R1Q5GAYWXN33O8	0345436911	441036137	The Dress Lodger (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Book of the Year, absolutely amazing!!	Another nomination for  \\"book of the year\\"  falls to this indefatigably entertaining historical fictional novel,  _The Dress Lodger_.   The novel touches on so many fascinating subjects, it is practically stunning in it's content alone.<br />     There are going to be many readers perhaps unfamiliar with what a \\"dress lodger\\" is.  The concept is based primarily on capitalization of the poor, and in more basic terminology, it occurs when an amoral,  despicable landlord (who also rents to borders) negotiates payment for rental fees in the form of prostitution.  In the bargain, he invests in an eye-catching, expensive high society  gown that beckons richer clients and higher prices,  places it on a wisp of a very young child/woman, and revels in the profits. It is best to take advantage of a very young lady, one in the most dire straits, such as our protagonist,  Gustine (not Justine).   Gustine is forced to accept  no other option but to do this pimp's bidding.  Not unexpectantly, she  becomes pregnant  in the normal course of her \\"job\\" and gives birth to a beautifully defected child  afflicted with ectopia cordis, also known as a heart misplaced to the outside of the thorax, and literally visible to the world.  Noticed immediately as a baby destined to die at any moment, the landlord suffers this inconvenience and sticks his 8 year old mentally handicapped kid as it's main caretaker.  (You can see the train wreck coming...)<br />     Overseeing all the the chaos is the bizarre old one eye woman that exchanges the favor of board and care for body guarding the prostitute.  This is an assignment she takes quite seriously, and never, ever allows this young charge to leave her sights.  Everything the young woman does is observed, (yes, everything) and it is all done to protect what is important.......the life of the dress.  Once home, the dress is groomed diligently and restored prominently in the front room as a reminder to Gustine that after she is home from her miserable pottery assistant's job, she has one more job to fulfill.<br />     The year is 1831, in England, and  historically relevant for the cholera epidemic that struck and arrived in Sunderland, England.  Medical Information was primary at best and generally distrusted and ignored by the population.   The government correctly instituted quarantines, but these were largely violated and unsupported by most of the neighboring towns, cities,and especially rejected by the buisnesses that met the basic needs of these  neighboring areas.  When coupled with the need for furthur medical investigation and infection studies it was a most difficult period in human history. <br />     The medical community required studies of the disease processes, and this in layman's terms meant they needed the bodies of dead people suspected of dying from not only cholera but other diseases as well.  Because cholera was wiping out entire towns, it was imperative that the focus be on this disease entitiy.  There was no other way to determine how the disease was spread, and to differentiate it from other diseases unless the doctors performed anatomical post mortem exams.    Unfortunately, the general population, especially the poor,  seriously mistrusted all physicians and suspected them of stealing their bodies for their demonic curiosities.  This was the gravest of sins (no pun intended). The government was trying to furthur the work of physicians, as it understood the necessity of post mortem study and was short of passing the Anatomy Act, which would allow the doctors to obtain corpses  legally.  The rumor of this Act alone, generated rage amongst the poor, certain that they would be the bodies targeted and subjected to all sorts of disgusting experiments.  Of these social complexites comes Dr. Henry Chiver, a very progressive, dynamic physician with an intense interest in  cardiology.  He, amongst other physicians became embroiled in a conspiracy to obtain cadavers in the infamous  case of anatomist Hare and Burke who were socially indicted for murdur and grave/body snatching.  Unfortunately, the conspiracy was involved in a despicable scam to murder poor and underpriviledged people which became exposed and caused the virtual lynching of the doctors involved.  Dr. Chivers escaped, but with a load of remorse and internal conflict for which he ultimately paid dearly for.  Despite the risk, he continues to need the necessary subjects..he must have bodies to study the human heart and with his desire comes the possible answer to saving the critically ill infant of Gustine.  With such a promise, Gustine meets Dr. Chivers, and each use each other to meet their requirements.  Gustine invests all her hope, and assists her doctor to obtain his necessary subjects.<br />      <br />And, so, Dr. Chivers and Gustine and becomes complicated by attraction and need.   When Dr. Chivers discovers she has a son suffering with ectopia cordis the situation and relationship changes dramatically.   The events become climatic as the cholera plague envelopes the city and the poor take to the streets in a rage against medical advancement.	2003-11-03
US	51740940	R2WY9QDJAFW4QI	0345436911	441036137	The Dress Lodger (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Book of the Year, absolutely amazing!!	Another nomination for  \\"book of the year\\"  falls to this indefatigably entertaining historical fictional novel,  _The Dress Lodger_.   The novel touches on so many fascinating subjects, it is practically stunning in it's content alone.<br />     There are going to be many readers perhaps unfamiliar with what a \\"dress lodger\\" is.  The concept is based primarily on capitalization of the poor, and in more basic terminology, it occurs when an amoral,  despicable landlord (who also rents to borders) negotiates payment for rental fees in the form of prostitution.  In the bargain, he invests in an eye-catching, expensive high society  gown that beckons richer clients and higher prices,  places it on a wisp of a very young child/woman, and revels in the profits. It is best to take advantage of a very young lady, one in the most dire straits, such as our protagonist,  Gustine (not Justine).   Gustine is forced to accept  no other option but to do this pimp's bidding.  Not unexpectantly, she  becomes pregnant  in the normal course of her \\"job\\" and gives birth to a beautifully defected child  afflicted with ectopia cordis, also known as a heart misplaced to the outside of the thorax, and literally visible to the world.  Noticed immediately as a baby destined to die at any moment, the landlord suffers this inconvenience and sticks his 8 year old mentally handicapped kid as it's main caretaker.  (You can see the train wreck coming...)<br />     Overseeing all the the chaos is the bizarre old one eye woman that exchanges the favor of board and care for body guarding the prostitute.  This is an assignment she takes quite seriously, and never, ever allows this young charge to leave her sights.  Everything the young woman does is observed, (yes, everything) and it is all done to protect what is important.......the life of the dress.  Once home, the dress is groomed diligently and restored prominently in the front room as a reminder to Gustine that after she is home from her miserable pottery assistant's job, she has one more job to fulfill.<br />     The year is 1831, in England, and  historically relevant for the cholera epidemic that struck and arrived in Sunderland, England.  Medical Information was primary at best and generally distrusted and ignored by the population.   The government correctly instituted quarantines, but these were largely violated and unsupported by most of the neighboring towns, cities,and especially rejected by the buisnesses that met the basic needs of these  neighboring areas.  When coupled with the need for furthur medical investigation and infection studies it was a most difficult period in human history. <br />     The medical community required studies of the disease processes, and this in layman's terms meant they needed the bodies of dead people suspected of dying from not only cholera but other diseases as well.  Because cholera was wiping out entire towns, it was imperative that the focus be on this disease entitiy.  There was no other way to determine how the disease was spread, and to differentiate it from other diseases unless the doctors performed anatomical post mortem exams.    Unfortunately, the general population, especially the poor,  seriously mistrusted all physicians and suspected them of stealing their bodies for their demonic curiosities.  This was the gravest of sins (no pun intended). The government was trying to furthur the work of physicians, as it understood the necessity of post mortem study and was short of passing the Anatomy Act, which would allow the doctors to obtain corpses  legally.  The rumor of this Act alone, generated rage amongst the poor, certain that they would be the bodies targeted and subjected to all sorts of disgusting experiments.  Of these social complexites comes Dr. Henry Chiver, a very progressive, dynamic physician with an intense interest in  cardiology.  He, amongst other physicians became embroiled in a conspiracy to obtain cadavers in the infamous  case of anatomist Hare and Burke who were socially indicted for murdur and grave/body snatching.  Unfortunately, the conspiracy was involved in a despicable scam to murder poor and underpriviledged people which became exposed and caused the virtual lynching of the doctors involved.  Dr. Chivers escaped, but with a load of remorse and internal conflict for which he ultimately paid dearly for.  Despite the risk, he continues to need the necessary subjects..he must have bodies to study the human heart and with his desire comes the possible answer to saving the critically ill infant of Gustine.  With such a promise, Gustine meets Dr. Chivers, and each use each other to meet their requirements.  Gustine invests all her hope, and assists her doctor to obtain his necessary subjects.<br />      <br />And, so, Dr. Chivers and Gustine and becomes complicated by attraction and need.   When Dr. Chivers discovers she has a son suffering with ectopia cordis the situation and relationship changes dramatically.   The events become climatic as the cholera plague envelopes the city and the poor take to the streets in a rage against medical advancement.	2003-11-02
US	51740940	R1AS7Z09W3WGJN	0385490445	107805179	Alias Grace: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A true story comes to life with each turn of the page	I am going to get my summary of the book over with right now:  It was absolutely incredible! It was a fantastic recreation of a true story that gripped the reader to the very end. <BR>The story takes place in 1863 in Canada. Enter lovely Grace, a 16 year old girl left with no other option but to leave her abusive father to her beloved small siblings and enter the only lucrative employment open to her- servitude.  Grace adapts well to her position of servant, but unfortunately she accepts a position with a rich master, Mr. Thomas Kinnear after being sweet talked by the main &quot;housekeeper&quot;, Nancy Montgomery.  Certain that her employment will be worth her leaving her initial assignment, Grace elects to leave behind her only experience of stability to work for Mr. Kinnear.<br />But, shortly after starting this position, Grace is accused of a double murder, along with a fellow house servant, James McDermott.  The murders are revealed through the newspaper releases, personal interviews with the main characters and the transcript interpretations of court proceedings.  This leads the reader to one of the more intriguing stories in  a long time, and one that just leaves a reader itiching for every possible piece of information that could shed light for the truth and accurately recreate the circumstances  for  what happened that night so long ago.<br />That night involves the owner of the mansion and grounds, Mr. Thomas Kinnear and his &quot;housekeeper&quot; Nancy Montgomery.  It seems fairly certain that their relationship was more than professional, indeed, Nancy appears to habitually be romantic with her masters...  and to become impregnated by them as well.<br />All of these incredibly scandalous behaviors catch up with these characters.  There is a supposition of innocence about Grace that confronts the readers and the postmortem evidence that disturbs one as well.  Regardless, this is a very intriguing novel that is  intellectually stimulating and  certain toprovoke powerful emotions.	2003-11-01
US	51740940	R10YDYTW8IWZ6K	1400033349	510315418	The Solace of Leaving Early	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	Sensitive novel about moving on	This is a novel about domestic abuse and it's after effects on an entire community.  What makes this more sensitive, is that the community is a very small town in Indiana and the people that live there have known each other for a lifetime.<BR>The impact of the abuse is more personalized because of the familiarity of the townsfolk and the reactions of the surviviors more exposed and accountable.  With domestic abuse comes grief, and grief can beget unresolved grief, which is ripe in this tightly knit clan from Haddington, Indiana. <br />Presenting a touching story of two little girls exposed to the brutal slaying of their mother, Author Kimmel allows the event to rip through the town's church where the guilt and grief card is played handsomely by Pastor Amos Townsend.  The pastor is suddenly in charge of coordinating the future of the two traumatized children by the basically geriatric and infirmed relatives. Confronted with the prospects of adopting the children out, Pastor Townsend searches to work out a solution. Heavily leaning on Anna Braverton, fellow churchgoer and intellectual confidant, Amos struggles to provide guidance and compose sermons for his congregation in one of the most personally challenging periods of his life.<br />At the same time, Langston Braverman (daughter of Anna and Walt)  aborts her PH.D. and all prospects as a university professor by walking out on her orals, packing up her dilapidated car and heading home with her faithful dog, Germane.  She unexpectantly shows up at her childhood home,  moves back into her attic bedroom and settles down to selfish moping.  While she becomes aware of the little girls by studying them through her attic window, she decidedly refuses to hear the details of their mother's death, professing that it should be no one's buisness but their own.  But, just like a small town, neighbor's lives get tangled, and despite all Langston's attempts to stay uninvolved, others work to make her a key player in the future oftwo tragically orphaned sisters.	2003-10-20
US	51740940	RGFN3XUAQYVZT	0618131574	563821854	Wild Life	Books	3	7	14	N	Y	overwhelmed	Quite frankly, I loved Molly Gloss' _The Jump off Creek_.  <br />Quite frankly this was just about the weirdest, most schizophrenic book I have ever read.   Unfortunately, I was really attracted to it; the issues of a strong minded woman living in the early 1900's, the area of interest being the northern pacific, the early logging historic period, and other fish bait that would entice many of us to turn the pages of this book.  Obviously, enough of us did so as to qualify for mention...  <br />However, as much as I want to scream out in favor of this book, it equally drove me insane.<br />I will refrain from citing the background, as that is done quite well by the previous reviewers.<br />My review is of one quite overwhelmed.  Ms. Gloss wrote a beautiful novel, she just, quite simply wrote too damn much.	2003-09-25
US	51740940	R3ODDLHXJGJTBX	0425179826	394001520	The Mineral Palace	Books	2	5	6	N	Y	A Stone's Throw	Everything worthy of a wonderful story was available for the author. Unfortunately, it just was not pieced skillfully together.<br />Bena Jonssen is an accomplished young mother married to a doctor.  Unfortunately, she is presented with some worthy obstacles that are formidable for the time. Her husband, a boozing, skirt-chasing doctor is no support when they move their obviously physically and mentally handicapped infant son to her husband's new job in Pueblo, Colorado in 1934.  Aside from  Bena's constant preoccupation with her son's health and her husband's  apathy, Bena brings with her some unusual habits; one being a mathmatically applied tic,  repressed memories of her brother, and an enthusiasm to restore the Mineral Palace.<br />Unfortunately, the novel's receipe just does not  work, even though the ingredients are all there.  Historical junkies may be driven to plod through the novel, but the outcome is just  a stone's throw in a novel that easily could have been  a significant  reflection for the time.	2003-09-22
US	51740940	R59FF9XE614YV	0944072860	362641613	Range of Light	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Judge not a book by the cover	I bought this book in a novelty store around Yosemite.  I am quite familiar with notable literature, but try to buy and experience published literature out of the mainstream.<br />Quite frankly, I bought the book because of the cover!<br />I was intrigued by the beautifully pictured landscape of the Sierras  which graces the cover.  Intrigued by the story of two high school friends reuniting to backpack together after many years of silence provoked my interest.<br />Unfortunately. the brautiful backdrop did not overcome the bland reunion of these colorless women.  Their whining and meaningless memories left me void of any interest for their future relationship.  Here were two people in a backdrop of glory and their concerns were legitimately dwarfed in my opinion.<br />This is not a novel that will recharge you or make you feel the power of hiking in the Sierras.  <br />Don't waste your time trying to bring life to the passing.-	2003-09-21
US	51740940	R18XNE0LRHXHXC	0767903862	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Tongue in cheek, shoes on feet	The only reason I gave this 4 stars in because he didn't bring his hilarious cohort, Katz, so eloquently introduced to us in _A Walk in the Woods_.<br />But, even alone, Bill carries on without compromise to bring forth hilarious encounters, touching significance and the palpable joy of newly explored travel destined to loosen the grip of the most tenacious buttocks from the oldest lounge chairs, chaises and couches.  It is a valuable book to those traveling to the regions Bill visited.  He capably reviews and explores the more outstanding places of interest.  Having this book accompany you on your journey would be a lighthearted and helpful guide.<br />As Bill travels from city to town and outback, he effortlessly captures the essence of the individuality of towns and regions.  It is a loosely gathered tangle of stories which is derived from the unusual experiences of the solo traveler. It is certainly the openness of Mr. Bryson that lends to intelligent, humorous and whimsical interpretations of his experiences in Australia that enhances a traveler's exploration down-under.	2003-07-17
US	51740940	R3QMVSFEN3EA5O	0142004235	974134151	East of Eden, John Steinbeck Centennial Edition	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Don't let reviews spoil the plot!!	When I read this book, it launched me on a personal goal to read all of his novels. I have completed almost all of them and anticipate re-reading them all over again!<br />He has personally inspired me to appreciate the  beautiful lands of California's  Salinas Valley and Monterey.  The history of the valley and coast  is widely recognized because of the stories and novels by Mr. Steinbeck.   He  publicized their unique problems in a literary format widely received and applauded at the time.  It is obvious that by the endorsement of Oprah's book club, his writings are as fresh and pertinent as ever.<br />_East of Eden_ is a powerful novel spanning generations and focusing on two brothers, Adam and Charles.  As profiled in the editorial review, the family dynamics becomes incredibly complicated.  This complication is the facilitator of future difficulties and the impetus of a great story you should not miss.<br /> His novels struck a chord in many people, myself included.  Each one of his books propelled me forward to read another, and another.  It is worth stating that one of my happiest days ever was to re-visit Cannery Row and explore the places  he wrote about.	2003-07-17
US	51740940	R228KY84Q3DSN4	0395911508	65060794	Desperate Journeys, Abandoned Souls: True Stories of Castaways and Other Survivors	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An ultimate "What if" book	It is amazing the situations that men and women have been in over the centuries.  These are not simple situations either, they are life and death episodes where it is certain that the smartest, fittest and luckiest come out alive.<br />The book is a rich resource of stories going back to the 1500's to the present.  Some of the earlier accounts were more difficult to assimilate due to the language dialect.  Each of them portray significant human courage and vulnerability.  For personal reasons, the reader may be more drawn to one that another.  It is certain that a significant effort was made to render the historic presentation accurate.  Some of the more astounding survival encounters are revealed  generating the awesomeness of what the human being will go through to hold on to the fragile life line of their tomorrows.	2003-07-17
US	51740940	RVMFAHGN22OFG	0595232140	840601120	The Idea of Forever	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Nice backdrop but average read	I purchased this book from a store in Yosemite and looked forward to reading a novel that took place in the Central Valley and Western Sierra towns. I always find the novel is enhanced when you are reading it where it supposedly took place.  The novel cover is very appealing, catching the eye in a group of other lusciously displayed Yosemite book covers.<br />The novel is about Morgan Whittier and the disappearance of her beloved sister, Phoenix.  In her search for Phoenix, Morgan moves into her sister's home probing for clues of her sister's mysterious absence.  In this effort, Morgan discovers intriguing secrets about her family and clues to her sister's disappearance.  In her research, she uncovers many truths about herself.<br />While several reviewers praise the book to 5 stars, I find the book is a rather unaspiring read.  I found it predictable and simple.  This was her first novel, and it is certainly a notable effort, but not one that I would go out of my way to read.  The fact that I read it in the environment in which it was written certainly enhanced the experience, but other than that, I can not honestly say that it was more than that as a novel .	2003-07-17
US	51740940	R2JLTH4S8SGQN4	1555971938	373356274	Shallows	Books	2	1	3	N	Y	It lost me	I gave this book 2 stars because I loved his other book _Cloudstreet_ and find the author to be amazingly talented.<br />Unfortunately, I could not get past page 82 in this slow, ponderous story.  I gave it multiple efforts but found myself lacking any interest in these characters or their gripes. I initially felt an alignment with Queenie and backed her spontaneous efforts to protest the slaughtering of whales which is the only thriving buisness in the town she lives in.  Her actions angered most of the individuals of the town  and her newly wed husband, Cleveland.  Cleveland is a low-aspiring fellow, not originally from the small whaling town, Angelus.  He is pre-occupied by scrapbooks and reading the diaries of the town's expired elder Nathaniel Coupar who is Queenie's great grandfather.  Meanwhile, her father, Daniel is a miserably depressed grump who has issues with everyone in town but can't express himself.  Then we have another despicably repulsive  realtor, Des Pustling, whom I thought could disgust me enough to dredge up some kind of interest  to keep me turning the pages.  Other bits of folk weave irritatingly in and out, but not enough to hold fast the effort.<BR> I  hate to give up on a book, and can not even remember the last time I did, so I kept hoping the story would pick up and grab me, but it just was so much work to stay interested.  <BR>There are too many characters to keep track of, and the timeline flips back and forth which was very distracting.   <br />Meanwhile, I am moving on to _Dirt Music_ and _the Riders_; also by Tim Winton with higher expectations.	2003-07-14
US	51740940	R2UP8DLBD82CGG	1555971938	373356274	Shallows	Books	2	3	3	N	Y	It lost me	I gave this book 2 stars because I loved his other book _Cloudstreet_ and find the author to be amazingly talented.<br />Unfortunately, I could not get past page 82 in this slow, ponderous story.  I gave it multiple efforts but found myself lacking any interest in these characters or their gripes. I initially felt an alignment with Queenie and backed her spontaneous efforts to protest the slaughtering of whales which is the only thriving buisness in the town she lives in.  Her actions angered most of the individuals of the town  and her newly wed husband, Cleveland.  Cleveland is a low-aspiring fellow, not originally from the small whaling town, Angelus.  He is pre-occupied by scrapbooks and reading the diaries of the town's expired elder Nathaniel Coupar who is Queenie's great grandfather.  Meanwhile, her father, Daniel is a miserably depressed grump who has issues with everyone in town but can't express himself.  Then we have another despicably repulsive  realtor, Des Pustling, whom I thought could disgust me enough to dredge up some kind of interest  to keep me turning the pages.  Other bits of folk weave irritatingly in and out, but not enough to hold fast the effort.<BR> I  hate to give up on a book, and can not even remember the last time I did, so I kept hoping the story would pick up and grab me, but it just was so much work to stay interested.  <BR>There are too many characters to keep track of, and the timeline flips back and forth which was very distracting.   <br />Meanwhile, I am moving on to _Dirt Music_ and _the Riders_; also by Tim Winton with higher expectations.	2003-07-14
US	51740940	R3A6NPKBH1ZKH2	0743234413	587294559	Cloudstreet: A Novel	Books	5	63	65	N	Y	One grand "nugget in the webbing"	The Los Angeles Times Book Review states &#34;Winton is a one-man band of genius.&#34; Heady words, and I snapped at the bait, intrigued by the raving reviews of the readers.  (Be careful not to read all of them, as one gives away the entire ending in one sentence). I was not disappointed.  I was completely captivated by this story in a way I have never been by any other.  The originality,  teasing slang and the insight into  Australian post-world war II was a hearty combination that cadenced into one of the most fascinating books I have ever read.  This book went with me everywhere. I discussed it with many and especially enjoyed lingering over certain sentences ripe with slang.  It was probably one of the most delightful aspects of reading this book;  the freshness and foreigness to me as an American reading the saucy expressions of Australians.  The humor is hilarious, and there was a smile for nearly every page I read and also moments that made your heart melt.  At this very moment, there are friends of mine working in medicine  (hospital) still trying to figure out  what Tim Winton meant by  &#34;the smell of nugget in the webbing.&#34;  The following is a subtle spoiler alert **  Aside from the hilarity, the novel is about two families that by chance come together to live in the same large home.  The Pickles Family inherits a large home from a relative that dies suddenly and unexpectantly.  Thanks to this relative  (Uncle Joel) and his wise forethought, he bars his brother, Sam from selling the home for 20 years.  Joel's motivation is a premeditated attempt to protect the wife and children of Sam and Sam's gambling at the race tracks, not to mention the unfortunate work related amputation of his fingers on one hand that renders him nearly unemployable.  Since things are pretty grim anyway (they are living above the bar that Joel owns and &#34;working&#34; off the rent,) Sam's drunken wife Dolly, and his children move on up to Cloudstreet and the mansion in theoffering. Sam, ever so shifty, immediately, and without prior consultation with the rest of his family, rents out one half of the house to the Lamb family.  The Lambs are the absolute opposite of the Pickles.  Religious, and with their own family sorrows, they  pack in and set up a grocery store in their one half of the lower story to make a living. The Lambs arrive after suffering through the near drowning of their most beloved son, Fish.  (note the irony.) Fish, retarded and prone to sensing spirits in the house and in and of himself becomes essential to the story and the telling.  Revolving around this poor boy are the steel strength-heart soft mother, Oriel, and father Lester, a hen-pecked,  sweet tempered,entertaining pa.  Son &#34;Quick&#34; is the angst-ridden brother who feels responsible for Fish's accident and grows up fighting the evils around him.  The other sisters round out this lively family. Many characters and sub-plots keep this book a page turner that will entertain and move you.  I look forward to reading the rest of his novels.  PS : there is a study guide for those that want to enhance the novel.  See Amazon.com under author Tim Winton.	2003-07-07
US	51740940	R15DFIJC7JFI22	0743227840	617365894	The Ice Beneath You: A Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	Our modern US soldiers	After reading some of the reviews I will admit straight out that I have no military experience.  I respect those that have come from military background as their impressions of this novel will certainly be more acute and critical.<br />     So, speaking purely as a reasonable educated person in world events,  I admit my knowledge of the military operations in Somalia is inadequate.  In the attempt to learn more about Somalia, and being attracted to the book trailer, I purchased the book.<br />     It just so happened that Desert Storm was at it's climax  when I started the book and the events furthur impressed me with the author's story.  Here, on one hand you have America's big war in Iraq happening, and in Somalia, the efforts of our young soldiers was just as important, but oh, so overlooked.<br />     Christian Bauman offers a  well written, gritty, sarcastically relevant book.  He offers that it takes more to just being a soldier... there are facets of their characters that are in constant change.  I appreciated his ability to allow this perception in each of his characters to develope, and to develope randomly.  It  kept the story line fresh, unanticipated and sharp.<br />     The story is about Benjamin Jones and  his tour of duty in Somalia with the US Army (gunboat unit).  It is a reflection of what happened in Somalia and how it is impacting him now and with the decisions he tries to make.  In his story, you will meet his best friend, Trevor, and  heart throb, Liz.  <br />    As  Benjamin tries to assimilate into civilian life, it becomes clear that no one is going to make this easy for him, and for most people they don't even acknowledge what he did for his country.  Coming from this mindframe, his experiences make for a rich insight into the modern military heroes of today.	2003-06-20
US	51740940	R17RY8NLIZH11E	0425181561	720968605	The Suburbs of Heaven	Books	4	1	2	N	N	When dysfunctional meets heaven	The blue ribbon for family dysfunction has been awarded:  <BR>it is the family of Jim Hutchins from New Hampshire.<br />    <BR> The blue ribbon for citizen dysfunction   has been awarded: it is to any person living in the small town in New Hampshire associated either by relative or friends, neighbors, store owners or law enforcement  officials<BR> to the  family of Jim Hutchins.<br />What compells anyone to read this novel is absurd expectation.  The characters are barely hanging onto reality.  Some of them beckon sympathy and an appeal that they will pull their stupid heads out of their....well...let us just say they beckon some empathy for their predicaments.<br />Yet, it is their stupidity that turns the pages of this novel.  One can hardly believe their ignorance can continue to progress, and the innocent prayer that some savior will rush out to change the course of impending doom is frankly the only reason I kept up with the book!!  <br />If you want to read more than a train wreck, read this.	2003-06-19
US	51740940	RA5AQFRR66XGX	0618127275	191684524	Untamed Seas: One Woman's True Story of Shipwreck and Survival	Books	4	12	15	N	N	4 points for courage, -1 points for stupidity	This novel is  unforgettable and absolutely terrifying.<br />     Deborah is a young and vibrant woman, attracted to the sea and sailing.  Trying to make it on her own, she elects to crew with four others on a 58 foot  sailboat named the TRASHMAN  from Annapolis to Florida.  Somewhat experienced in sailing, she begins to recognize that this crew is not capable nor predictable.  She overrides her doubts with alcohol and brief reassurances, yet she can not shake the impending doom and fear of those she is sailing with.  <br />     It is not easy.  The crew argue amongst themselves, and the alcohol flows steadily.  Procedures are cast aside, and  boasting mates inflate their personal experience on board.  Within hours of sail, it is quite obvious that she is sailing with not only incompetent sailors, but ones who are obviously psychologically and chemically impaired.  There are crucial warning signs that Deborah notes prior to sail, yet fails to act on.  Just as in destructive relationships, the symptoms are there before the disease is diagnosed.<br />      ABORT!!!  ESCAPE!!!!  SWIM!!  You scream to the innocents while reading this account. <br />      But you know people do not behave this way.  They wait, and they hope...for semblance of order...for personal responsibility....for  someone to save them.<br />      Personally, if I had  to choose  the method of my death, what happened to these poor people  would come in last place.<br />     There are underlying issues for Deborah.  She suffered child abuse at the hands of her step father and had a difficult relationship with her mother.  Coupled with her own personal demons, she was vulnerable, yet probably better prepared to handle the ultimate challenges before her.  Her troubles made her strong and  resilient, although later they became her psychological hurdles she had to cross over before she made peace with not only herself but the horror that occurred on sea.	2003-06-18
US	51740940	R3CYDVLVKB4206	0060989025	806784353	The Water and the Blood: A Novel	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Be carefull of those that profess to speak for the Lord	I was enchanted by Nancy Turner's novel_These  is my Words_; in fact, it was my personal book of the year.<br />Nancy Turner delivered a fresh novel, heavily burdened with baptist theology and ironic interpretations that were predominate in the pre-world war II  days and post WWII. <br />Enter \\"Frosty\\"   Summers, whose real name is Philadelphia.  The contrast of names is not lost on the  reader.<br />Born into one of the most dysfuntional  families in East Texas, Frosty grows up amidst bigots and heavy bible thumping people who choose to preach but not obey.<br />Frosty is a sensitive soul, with an independence that becomes her savior.  From the start of the novel, she is unknowingly weaved into a web of planned criminal behavior which feasts on the ugly issues ingrained in the history of whites vs. blacks.  Frosty is not the typical child, reared back at this time to segregate herself and her life from the \\"dark\\" skins.   Her life is constantly reinforced to follow programmed steps, and above all else, to never associate herself with those not like herself.<br />It is so obvious in this lovely, historic novel, that the most senstive, importantly holy people are those with \\"dark skin\\".  The absolutely pure  and christian beliefs that impart baptist theology are never more ironic than in this novel.  The ugly reality of life of blacks were beyond the tolerance of any mortal soul.   What makes their journey significant, is that the black people had to indure the disgusting offenses committed upon them by some of the most ignorant persons in the world, and holding the bible before them in complete security that their interpretation is that of the word of God.<br />Oh, how far from the teachings of the Lord can one ever be.	2003-06-10
US	51740940	R2AEICIASR0Y56	0060938099	416657694	Enemy Women	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Historical Women's Civil  War	When I started to read this novel, I had no idea the impact that women had in the civil war.  The entire concept was void for me! <br /> I was astonished to learn that for many of the southern women their very lives were threatened with imprisonment and indeed suffered the incredible horrors of incarceration.<br />  Unless  they confessed to the aiding and abetting  of the enemy, they were incarcerated,  often to the end of their lives.  Imagine the confessions of mothers, wives and sisters to their loved ones.....\\"I did not give food, shelter, monetary or emotional support.\\"............meanwhile, their livestock were being slaughtered, crops harvested for 400 horses, their very homes ransacked and property burned.<br />However , this is not the entire story of this novel.  It is a gritty, tough betrayal of a  young woman trying to pull her family back together in the most  trying of times in the history of  the United States.  Stern lines were drawn politically, militarily, and personally.  It was not an easy time to negotiate.<br />Adair is no common woman.  Strong,  an intense horse woman she rises above some extreme obstacles to live for tomorrow,<br />This is an incredibly interestingly important novel .  I enjoyed it  immensely and find it to be one of the most important women's historical novels written.<br />These were severe transgressions.  They were used by the union military to initimidate  confederate relatives and sympathizers.  This novel brings to life those years that tore the country apart.	2003-06-10
US	51740940	R2EN41ERK6HM3G	1930238088	386590267	Missing in the Minarets: The Search for Walter A. Starr, Jr.	Books	4	11	11	N	N	mountain men of long ago	On a winter vacation to the incredibly beautiful world of Yosemite, I explored the bookstore and found this book.  My attraction to human survival stories and mountaineering led me directly to this book sold there.  I was not disappointed.<br />You do not have to know the entire landscape of the local mountains of Yosemite to experience the thrill Walter Starr Jr. explorations and climbing feats.  This young, handsome man was captivated by these mountains. His lust for exploration was insurmountable.  His family understood his passion, and when he became missing in the Minarets, teams were dispatched to find  him, alive or dead.<br />Mounaineer Norman Clyde embarks on a mission to recover Mr. Starr.  The experience is well written, including photographs to augment the recovery experience.  The accounts of the recovery are forthcoming and revealing.  It is impressive to learn that mountain exploration was boldly embarking and achieving remarkable feats.  Those interested in historical mountaineering will not be disappointed.	2003-05-21
US	51740940	R3DBINBA2AHX83	0743225791	657242606	This Rock: A Novel	Books	3	1	4	N	Y	religious abyss overtakes story line	I read _The Truest Pleasure_ knowing this  was the sequel. It has usually  been my experience that a sequel enhances the experience of most novels and feeling fondness for the characters of _The Truest Pleasure_, I wanted to know more about them.<br /><br />Unfortunately,  I just felt the book slid into a  religious abyss, sinking deeper into religious overtones that dominated the theme of the novel instead of enhancing the experience of the characters.  I began to dread reading that a church gathering was happening as I had to read pages and pages of religious sermonizing that I felt had little to add to the story.<br />The book could have been wonderful, as any child of Ginny and Tom would be worthy of carrying  a major story line.  Unfortunately, the fall out to monotonous sermonizing capitalized the novel and negatively impacted  the tone of the book.	2003-02-07
US	51740940	R13HCW65ZDKVG1	0743225791	657242606	This Rock: A Novel	Books	3	2	4	N	Y	religious abyss overtakes story line	I read _The Truest Pleasure_ knowing this  was the sequel. It has usually  been my experience that a sequel enhances the experience of most novels and feeling fondness for the characters of _The Truest Pleasure_, I wanted to know more about them.<BR> <BR>Unfortunately,   I just felt the book slid into a  religious abyss, sinking deeper into religious overtones that dominated the theme of the novel instead of enhancing the experience of the characters.  I began to dread reading that a church gathering was happening as I had to read pages and pages of religious sermonizing that I felt had little to add to the story.<BR>The book could have been wonderful, as any child of Ginny and Tom would be worthy of carrying  a major story line.  Unfortunately, the fall out to monotonous sermonizing capitalized the novel and negatively impacted  the tone of the book.	2003-02-07
US	51740940	RX2URG8UJYCQB	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Betty Crocker meets the Belgian Congo	I have heard it said that this is Barbara Kingsolver's most ambitious work, and without a doubt, it is true.  Once you start this novel, both of you have taken on a commitment; her's was to make a thought provoking novel, and your's is to let a fantastically wonderful saga unfold.<br />It is quite a story!! <br />It is in the 1950's.  Nathan Price decides to take his entire family, his bible and all his personality disorders to Africa on a mission of a lifetime.  Completely naive and unprepared (all of them) it is a hilariously tragic experience for not only the family of 6 but the villagers as well.<br />Briefly, to yank away women in the 1950's to such a barren place was nearly criminal in intent.  We are speaking of Betty Crocker life styles, frilly aprons, appetizers, cake mixes and 60 watt bulbs.  That is just  speaking for the mother, Orleanna. Additionally, you uproot 4 daughters, equally unprepared for such an adventure and the situation becomes tenuous at best.   Fly them from their suburb home to the outskirts of the most basic of African villages and you have chaos rising with the moon and setting with the sun.<br />How do five females cope with their dominant male member? It gets as basic as this, when after time it becomes quite clear that Father Nathan is  mentally unraveling, leaving his family completely vulnerable to not only the elements but the political chaos falling out in the Belgian Congo.  It is not enough to fall on one's knees when one is starving and their life in peril.  It falls on these women to pull it together and work their way out of a situation they should never have been involved in, but for the sake of their insane \\"father\\".<br />As the \\"father\\" becomes increasingly difficult, the family tries to survive on the good graces of those that were not so offended by his ways of pushing religion and baptism on them.  It becomes increasingly perilous when the father loses his ability to compromise with the tribal elders and the missionary foundation closes due to political chaos.  Left now without any funding, the mother and daughters feel only relief that they will all have to abort their mission and return to the states.<br />But, the \\"father\\" sees everything differently in his maniacle religious fervor and he insists that the family stick it out where they are so as to prove their faith in their God. This decision forces everyone's hand to take actions they never dreamed possible to stop their father from the family's destruction.	2003-01-31
US	51740940	R2187X1LT45XKI	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Betty Crocker meets the Belgian Congo	I have heard it said that this is Barbara Kingsolver's most ambitious work, and without a doubt, it is true.  Once you start this novel, both of you have taken on a commitment; her's was to make a thought provoking novel, and your's is to let a fantastically wonderful saga unfold.<br />It is quite a story!!<br />It is in the 1950's.  Nathan Price decides to take his entire family, his bible and all his personality disorders to Africa on a mission of a lifetime.  Completely naive and unprepared (all of them) it is a hilariously tragic experience for not only the family of 6 but the villagers as well.<br />Briefly, to yank away women in the 1950's to such a barren place was nearly criminal in intent.  We are speaking of Betty Crocker life styles, frilly aprons, appetizers, cake mixes and 60 watt bulbs.  That is just  speaking for the mother, Orleanna. Additionally, you uproot 4 daughters, equally unprepared for such an adventure and the situation becomes tenuous at best.  Fly them from their suburb home to the outskirts of the most basic of African villages and you have chaos rising with the moon and setting with the sun.<br />How do five females cope with their dominant male member? It gets as basic as this, when after time it becomes quite clear that Father Nathan is  mentally unraveling, leaving his family completely vulnerable to not only the elements but the political chaos falling out in the Belgian Congo.  It is not enough to fall on one's knees when one is starving and their life in peril.  It falls on these women to pull it together and work their way out of a situation they should never have been involved in, but for the sake of their insane \\"father\\".<br />As the \\"father\\" becomes increasingly difficult, the family tries to survive on the good graces of those that were not so offended by his ways of pushing religion and baptism on them.  It becomes increasingly perilous when the father loses his ability to compromise with the tribal elders and the missionaryfoundation closes due to political chaos.  Left now without any funding, the mother and daughters feel only relief that they will all have to abort their mission and return to the states.<br />But, the \\"father\\" sees everything differently in his maniacle religious fervor and he insists that the family stick it out where they are so as to prove their faith in their God. This decision forces everyone's hand to take actions they never dreamed possible to stop their father from the family's destruction.	2003-01-31
US	51740940	R19WIEHK0CY8A5	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Betty Crocker meets the Belgian Congo	I have heard it said that this is Barbara Kingsolver's most ambitious work, and without a doubt, it is true.  Once you start this novel, both of you have taken on a commitment; her's was to make a thought provoking novel, and your's is to let a fantastically wonderful saga unfold.<br />It is quite a story!! <br />It is in the 1950's.  Nathan Price decides to take his entire family, his bible and all his personality disorders to Africa on a mission of a lifetime.  Completely naive and unprepared (all of them) it is a hilariously tragic experience for not only the family of 6 but the villagers as well.<br />Briefly, to yank away women in the 1950's to such a barren place was nearly criminal in intent.  We are speaking of Betty Crocker life styles, frilly aprons, appetizers, cake mixes and 60 watt bulbs.  That is just  speaking for the mother, Orleanna. Additionally, you uproot 4 daughters, equally unprepared for such an adventure and the situation becomes tenuous at best.   Fly them from their suburb home to the outskirts of the most basic of African villages and you have chaos rising with the moon and setting with the sun.<br />How do five females cope with their dominant male member? It gets as basic as this, when after time it becomes quite clear that Father Nathan is  mentally unraveling, leaving his family completely vulnerable to not only the elements but the political chaos falling out in the Belgian Congo.  It is not enough to fall on one's knees when one is starving and their life in peril.  It falls on these women to pull it together and work their way out of a situation they should never have been involved in, but for the sake of their insane \\"father\\".<br />As the \\"father\\" becomes increasingly difficult, the family tries to survive on the good graces of those that were not so offended by his ways of pushing religion and baptism on them.  It becomes increasingly perilous when the father loses his ability to compromise with the tribal elders and the missionary foundation closes due to political chaos.  Left now without any funding, the mother and daughters feel only relief that they will all have to abort their mission and return to the states.<br />But, the \\"father\\" sees everything differently in his maniacle religious fervor and he insists that the family stick it out where they are so as to prove their faith in their God. This decision forces everyone's hand to take actions they never dreamed possible to stop their father from the family's destruction.	2003-01-31
US	51740940	RNYD22ZVO89CV	1882593340	118948510	The Farm She Was: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	She was the farm	Irene, age 90, lies essentially bedridden in the parlor where she can still feel part of the farm.  Her bedroom upstairs lies vacant now, along with the rooms of her dead parents and brother.   Insistant on maintaining imput on the goings-on, she tries to keep the upper hand in everything.  Lying quietly, she has embarked on documenting her life on the farm she was born on.  Her mind is as sharp as the pencil she scribes her memories.  Her notebooks serve as her testimony to the past and the very present.  <br />Among her reminisces are her present day quips targeted at those that seem to be circling her, poised to take advantage of this old woman's lurking day of death. She fears losing the farm in her death, the land cut up into suburbs, the old machinery auctioned and the house left to those who will never understand the sacrifices and joy that have walked in and out the kitchen door. As she gazes out the window, she can see the graves of her parents, her uncle and the many faithful collie that guarded over the flock of sheep.  It is a fearful thought that in the modern day, she would not be allowed to be buried alongside her family.<br />While she fights to maintain the bare bones of the farm in her later years, she recalls the years she spent keeping the farm going after her father's death at an early age.  Passive in grief, her mother steps aside and lets this young woman manage the intricacies of a sheep farm, a large garden and the general upkeep of the land in the mid 1900's.  Praised in national magazines for the quality of her sheep's wool she gains the respect in the community for her work. <br />It is this woman's memories that  are golden as she recalls ninety years on the farm. Particularly insightful are Irene's recollection of seeing the first automobiles driving along the road at night. Unfamiliar with headlights, Irene and her mother stand nearly terrified as they ponder what those lights coming across the valley floor are.  It is her impression,once the car has passed by the dirt road in front of their farmhouse, that things will never again be the same.<br />Living over 90 years is a sure bet that things will never be the same at one time or another.  It is the wonderous theme of this lovely novel that allows Irene to move on but look fondly back.	2003-01-29
US	51740940	R3J1PWNBAZGOSX	0142001430	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	5	4	8	N	Y	WONDERFUL	I will restrain myself from writing in bold letters: \\"I loved it!!\\"  all the way across the top of the page.  I will even restrain myself from saying this was my favorite book of the year, because it  is only January and there are many books  to read.  Simply put, I loved this book. <br />I will not argue the finer points of history.  I want a novel that entertains, educates and encourages me to delve into the subject matter with furthur intensity.  This novel did just that.  I am newly interested in the plague and in the herbs and medicines gathered long ago and today to soothe the miseries of mankind. I appreciate being enticed to research these topics more thoroughly. I also relish a unique plot, and I found the story line powerful and the ending pleasantly unexpected.  I found the story told through a young widow and housemaid, Anna, to be a colorful character that gracefully narrates the stories of the villagers plagued with a deadly disease but with the courage to quarantine themselves from the outside world.  <br />For those of you reviewers that had issues with the historical factual presentation, I say buy a  medical manual and miner's history books.  I daresay you won't find a finer fictional novel about the plague than Geraldine Brooks' _Year of Wonders_.	2003-01-29
US	51740940	R2V4ZFFZA8IHCW	0142001430	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	WONDERFUL	I will restrain myself from writing in bold letters: \\"I loved it!!\\"  all the way across the top of the page.  I will even restrain myself from saying this was my favorite book of the year, because it  is only January and there are many books  to read.  Simply put, I loved this book. <br />I will not argue the finer points of history.  I want a novel that entertains, educates and encourages me to delve into the subject matter with furthur intensity.  This novel did just that.  I am newly interested in the plague and in the herbs and medicines gathered long ago and today to soothe the miseries of mankind. I appreciate being enticed to research these topics more thoroughly. I also relish a unique plot, and I found the story line powerful and the ending pleasantly unexpected.  I found the story told through a young widow and housemaid, Anna, to be a colorful character that gracefully narrates the stories of the villagers plagued with a deadly disease but with the courage to quarantine themselves from the outside world.  <br />For those of you reviewers that had issues with the historical factual presentation, I say buy a  medical manual and miner's history books.  I daresay you won't find a finer fictional novel about the plague than Geraldine Brooks' _Year of Wonders_.	2003-01-29
US	51740940	R2TDDV8WGPRM2H	1878448986	701219721	Hummingbird House	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	A rich and tersely cogent novel for real readers	I believe this novel would impress anyone, especially those who have intimate awareness of the political chaos of Guatemala, Nicaragua and Mexico.  However, as discussed in other interviews, it does little to politically penetrate these disturbances.  I felt this omission  was the genius behind the novel.<br />It is a very dense book, with subject matter quite complicated and diverse.  It was, as other reviewers have noted, somewhat challenging to get into.  It was difficult to feel just where the protagonist (Kate Banner, midwife) was going and what exactly motivated her anxiety.  But, in the end, I find that given the situation, it is a perfect reflection of where and what was going on.  How can plans be made when everything can change overnight?<br />Meet Kate Banner, in the first chapter delivering a newborn in a boat during the aftermath of a hurricane.  The infant lives and the mother unexpectantly dies. After years of giving medical care to the poor, managing  women's clinics,  daubing in dangerous activist circles, exhausted, unsatisfied in love and mentally bereft, she seriously flirts with going back home to the United States.<br />It is not a surprise to see her attempts thwarted in just about every way.  Friends from the past unveil their secret lives, placing all contacts in peril.  The horrors of the Sandinistas and Contras  become increasingly obvious to her, and unexpectantly, a helpless orphan toddler latches on to her hand and never lets go.  The more she tries to pull away from Central America, the more the people, the history and the turmoil itself hold her fast.<br />There is joy for Kate, though. In stark contrast to the political environs,  there is joy in a new love, joy in the nurturing of her adopted orphan girl, joy in the beautifully described region, fauna and people. There is joy in making plans to open Hummingbird House, offering a clinic and school to a small pocket of Guatemalan mountain villagers. and the vision sustains and nourishes her.  It is a story of hope and survival.<br />  This is an extremely sensitive novel, and the restraint that the author maintained placed the emphasis just where it belonged.	2003-01-29
US	51740940	R3TGFZSJES94VG	1882593340	118948510	The Farm She Was: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	She was the farm	Irene, age 90, lies essentially bedridden in the parlor where she can still feel part of the farm.  Her bedroom upstairs lies vacant now, along with the rooms of her dead parents and brother.   Insistant on maintaining imput on the goings-on, she tries to keep the upper hand in everything.  Lying quietly, she has embarked on documenting her life on the farm she was born on.  Her mind is as sharp as the pencil she scribes her memories.  Her notebooks serve as her testimony to the past and the very present.  <br />Among her reminisces are her present day quips targeted at those that seem to be circling her, poised to take advantage of this old woman's lurking day of death. She fears losing the farm in her death, the land cut up into suburbs, the old machinery auctioned and the house left to those who will never understand the sacrifices and joy that have walked in and out the kitchen door. As she gazes out the window, she can see the graves of her parents, her uncle and the many faithful collie that guarded over the flock of sheep.  It is a fearful thought that in the modern day, she would not be allowed to be buried alongside her family.<br />While she fights to maintain the bare bones of the farm in her later years, she recalls the years she spent keeping the farm going after her father's death at an early age.  Passive in grief, her mother steps aside and lets this young woman manage the intricacies of a sheep farm, a large garden and the general upkeep of the land in the mid 1900's.  Praised in national magazines for the quality of her sheep's wool she gains the respect in the community for her work. <br />It is this woman's memories that  are golden as she recalls ninety years on the farm. Particularly insightful are Irene's recollection of seeing the first automobiles driving along the road at night. Unfamiliar with headlights, Irene and her mother stand nearly terrified as they ponder what those lights coming across the valley floor are.  It is her impression,once the car has passed by the dirt road in front of their farmhouse, that things will never again be the same.<br />Living over 90 years is a sure bet that things will never be the same at one time or another.  It is the wonderous theme of this lovely novel that allows Irene to move on but look fondly back.	2003-01-29
US	51740940	R1LGM7ANA83F08	0743203631	780904511	Gap Creek : The Story Of A Marriage (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Surviving against the odds	This novel made me realize how easy we have it in this modern age compared to the days that were described in Robert Morgan's _Gap Creek_.   We may gripe and complain about how much we have to work to make ends meet.  We may  complain that we don't have time to do anything, and our schedules are packed with meetings and appointments, our cell phones and pagers competing for our attention.  But, if you want to understand what it was like over one hundred years ago, this is a very good novel to read.<br />The truth is we expect near perfection these present days in just about everything in our lives.  We want the perfect spouse, perfect children, a perfect job, house and car.  Our reality is that these can very well be expected, and if not, there are options available to us to manipulate our expectations.  And, if our expectations are not met, there is always prozac to relieve the anxiety and depression we may feel.<br />Robert Morgan absolutely nails what life had to be like back in the Appalachians in 1899 for a very young newly wed couple who start out their life with virtually nothing but the clothes on their back. A startling thought for anyone in the present day, this is a vivid interpretation of what it was like to make a life on a \\"wing and a prayer\\".<br />The narration by Julie is lovely, simple and naive.  She is still a teenager when she weds Hank. Born into a family where she was one of the eldest, she was counted on to work like a man.  When she was in her early teens, her only little brother dies.  The father falls ill, and it is up to Julie to do all the men's work.  Resentful at times, she never revolts, but resignedly commits herself to these chores no one else can do.<br />When she meets Hank, it is a quick courting.  Within the span of weeks, the marriage is confirmed and together they move \\"off the mountain\\" to a farm house in the valley of Gap Creek where a cantankerous old man has agreed to let them live in exchange for cooking, cleaning, and basically doing all the chores on the farm.   Hank works in the brick mill in town, until he loses his job. Around the same time, a devastating mishap kills the old man and Julie and Hank brace themselves for the heirs to come to claim the farm, leaving them homeless. A Christian couple, they selflessly commit themselves to keeping the farm up.  They tend to the animals, plant the crops and keep up the home just as when the old man was alive. <br />With no money coming in after Hank loses his job, their situation becomes tenuous at best.  The description of their work day around the farm is overwhelming.  For Julie, this is her calling, this is what confirms her very being; hard work and work that numbs the mind and body.  As a young couple, they are primitive in their personal relations.  In comparison to the expectations of intimacy in the present day, it is stunning to see the bare bones of a new marriage.  While Julie minds her tongue, and gives Hank a wide berth, she does become a victim to his immature rages and temper when he is being challenged. Sometimes lonely and missing her family, she never betrays her husband and the commitment they made to the old man to keep the farm going.<br />The harsh winter challenges this couple furthur.  Without any funds they must make due with their wits and survival skills.  This is a sensitive story of a marriage that survives more than hard work and a rough winter.  It is a story of a couple that must face some of life's toughest lessons, but learn to love  and make the ultimate commitment to each other.	2003-01-28
US	51740940	RGM5XWIZ0FJPM	0553379615	160413158	Into the Forest	Books	5	16	19	N	Y	Survival at your feet	Jean Hegland gives us a provocative novel about a family who lived far on the out skirts of a northern California small town surrounded by second growth redwood forest.  The two girls, Eva, 17, and  Nell (the protagonist) 16, explored the forest in their younger years, heeding the many warnings of their mother to beware the many perils lurking in the woods.  As they became older, their interest in playing in the forest waned, replaced by Eva's commitment to ballet and Nell's advanced self-education to prepare for matriculation to Harvard.<br />Unfortunately, their mother's untimely death heralds the collapse of their society as they know it.   Political and environmental catastrophies create anarchy on a local and grander scale.<br />Deadly epidemics break out across the nation as modern age medical systems become obsolete without electricity to power the diagnostic equipment  and refreigerate the medications and vaccines.  Infections now resistant to antibiotics become more virulent and illnesses easily managed by surgery now prove lethal as hospitals close and physicians find themselves helpless without the ability to operate.  The infrastructure to distribute drugs collapses as there is no way to procure or prescribe medication.   There is not transportation system as there is no gasoline available and the freeways have become parking lots for abandoned cars.  It is indeed a dismal picture of dread and doom.  Literally everything that has been taken for granted in their lives has now failed them and their survival skills are newborn at best.<br />The fascinating accounting of these girl's efforts to adapt is a rich and rewarding adventure.  Left to themselves, they must now learn that everything they need is ultimately at their feet, but the path to understanding this is a difficult one.  Their isolation in the house far away from town leaves them vulnerable.  Their reliance on everything modern leaves them initially  helpless and the loss of their parents leavesthem emotionally wasted.  It ultimately becomes quite obvious that no one will save them and their own survival will be up to them. <br /> Nell begins to research their environment and her studies prove to be their saving grace.  Nell learns that generations of  Indians before them survived  hundreds of years in the very same forest they live in.  Nell must now extract from the forest gifts they need to survive.  Everything they need is at their feet in the forest.  Herein is the unique survival story of Eva and Nell.<br />My family consists of environmental biologists, wildlife biologists and nursing science.  When I began this book, the concept so intrigued me that I gave a nightly summation to everyone while I prepared dinner.  Soon, we were all involved in the story line while we projected a similar fate for ourselves and what issues would be important to us and the survival skills we would have to be proficient.<br />It is abundantly clear that we have become a dependent and wasteful society.  Our waste paper basket hold objects that Nell and Eva would have cherished.  I found this book not one of fear and fatalism, nor did I find this to be a story without faith and morals, as one reader stated. I found many messages of faith and hope in the book and am frankly  shocked that some readers could not understand them.<br />I took away a powerful message to be more self reliant, conservative and environmentally sensitive.  I do believe my garden will be a little larger this year!	2003-01-24
US	51740940	RAZGIRAGFCQQX	1565122224	430082507	The Truest Pleasure	Books	4	3	6	N	N	What comes between	Throughout time, religion has motivated people, nations and politics .  Whether the motivation is for the good depends on the beholder.<br />In _The Truest Pleasure_ religion comes between Ginny and her husband, Tom.  In the first chapter, we meet Ginny as she succumbs completely to a Pentecostal service, talking in tongues and rolling around the ground like a dog.  <br /> I was sympathetic to Tom and felt his frustration with his wife that was hell bent to go to these bizarre hell raising services.   The more he protested, the more stubborn Ginny became.  Soon, a couple who could move mountains together spent most of their time bickering over religion and harboring grievances against each other for months at a time.<br />That did not stop them from finding  physical love under the sheets.  In these moments of coupling,  they did find their way together, and made their truces.  <br />It was not an easy time, right after the Civil War and the ranch required a young, strong manager.   Tom was that, and much more. Ginny's pa had become to old to do much of the work around the ranch.  Tom put everything he had into making improvements on the land and bringing in a profit for his efforts.  He was known as a hard, honest worker.  <br />But, Ginny craved more.  She wanted him to be more socially skilled, able to carry a conversation and be knowledgeable. But Tom was a simpler man, one to set back and listen, take off his shoes and nod off by evening time.  In a simply lovely story of faith and love, we meet a man and wife that make their way in the world.	2003-01-24
US	51740940	R19NOL0XGUB2VN	0520207130	742844245	Continental Drift (California Fiction)	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Murder mystery with earthquake shakes	I admit I expected more from this author, especially after reading his excellent book about the Donner party, _The Snow Mountain Passage_.<br />The story unfolds around Monterey Bay, California on a ranch inland on the San Andreas faultline.  The owner of the ranch, Monty, lives quiely with his wife in a nice home with large acreage, renting out another home to an artist.  The story opens with the return of their youngest son from the Vietnam war.  Not sure what to expect, they anticipate his arrival with a house party and even welcome the unexpected girlfriend on his arm when they pick him up at the airport.<br />It becomes blatantly obvious that the son has changed.  His behavior is bizarre and unpredictable.  Not only do his parents fret about the returning Vietnam vet, but his older brother does as well.<br />His return coincides with a series of shocking murdurs in the area, and with some analysis it appears the murdurer is closely in the vicinity of the ranch and is actually burying his victims on the fault line.<br />In panic, the parents fear the worse when the girlfriend turns up murdered and they are unable to locate their son.  Monty especially feels the chill of this heinous crime as he was freshly intimate with this woman in the field the evening prior to her death.<br />Unfortunately, the relationship of Monty and his wife is contaminated by Monty himself as he falls victim to his sexual urges and violates himself and the vows of his marriage.  The murder investigation takes a fevered pitch and Monty plots out on a map that they are at risk as the murderer is apparantly following a clear path along the fault line and they are right on it.<br />The mystery is fairly predictable, but since the author is of high standing in his other books, I would recommend this one, although it is clearly not one of his best.	2003-01-24
US	51740940	R22YTX4G7HSUO3	1565122224	430082507	The Truest Pleasure	Books	4	3	7	N	N	What comes between	Throughout time, religion has motivated people, nations and politics .  Whether the motivation is for the good depends on the beholder.<br />In _The Truest Pleasure_ religion comes between Ginny and her husband, Tom.  In the first chapter, we meet Ginny as she succumbs completely to a Pentecostal service, talking in tongues and rolling around the ground like a dog.  <br /> I was sympathetic to Tom and felt his frustration with his wife that was hell bent to go to these bizarre hell raising services.   The more he protested, the more stubborn Ginny became.  Soon, a couple who could move mountains together spent most of their time bickering over religion and harboring grievances against each other for months at a time.<br />That did not stop them from finding  physical love under the sheets.  In these moments of coupling,  they did find their way together, and made their truces.  <br />It was not an easy time, right after the Civil War and the ranch required a young, strong manager.   Tom was that, and much more. Ginny's pa had become to old to do much of the work around the ranch.  Tom put everything he had into making improvements on the land and bringing in a profit for his efforts.  He was known as a hard, honest worker.  <br />But, Ginny craved more.  She wanted him to be more socially skilled, able to carry a conversation and be knowledgeable. But Tom was a simpler man, one to set back and listen, take off his shoes and nod off by evening time.  In a simply lovely story of faith and love, we meet a man and wife that make their way in the world.	2003-01-24
US	51740940	RPZ6C2WGJZJH	0380723085	633856845	Durable Goods	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	A  "Katie" trilogy	Elizabeth Berg has created a hero of young girls with Katie, the 12 year old army brat (a brat she is not).   Katie and her 18 year old sister are trying to cope with their  verbally and physically abusive father.  All of them are recently reeling from the death of their mother from cancer .<br />A difficult age at 12, Katie has befriended another army brat next door.  Although somewhat submissive to this friend, Katie is happy to have the sophisticated advice from her slightly older friend about everything from how to do your nail to menstral issues.  With her older sister distracted by a boyfriend, she does the best she can to fill in the blanks of surviving adolescence.<br />Her older sister, Diane is not only taking blows from the father,  but verbal abuse especially in regards to her relationship with her boyfriend Dickie.  It is not an infrequent occurance for Diane to take physical punishment to protect  Katie. Now 18, Diane makes up her mind to leave home with Dickie.  She urges her little sister to come with her as she is afraid that when she leaves home, her father's bitter wrath  will make Katie his next  domestic victim.  <br />It is difficult for Katie.  She alternates between loyalty for her father, anger and the angst of adolescent confusion.  At the last minute, she elopes with Diane and Dickie.<br />Two books take up where this one leaves off.  Quick and rewarding reads, Katie becomes the unsung hero of young girls and Elizabeth Berg fans everywhere.	2003-01-13
US	51740940	R3443CN1CORU1N	0156005891	865843112	Eden Close	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Bittersweet answers to a painful past	Anita Shreve captures an east coast small town so well in this tidy story of a man returning home for his mother's funeral.  After the book is done, the images of the house, the pond, the town and the people seem to linger in one's mind, a compliment to her writing style.<br />The story revolves around Andrew returning to his boyhood farm home to take care of his mother's final buisness and prepare to sell the house.  It is the first time he has been home in almost 20 years.  His homecoming also dredges up the memories of one hot summer night that provoked unresolved questions and images that haunted him still.<br />Andrew was spending his last summer at home before leaving for college when the town's world was rocked by horrific events at the farm house next door. The shocking murder of his next door neighbor and the sexual assault of his 14 year old daughter, Eden   was heady news for the townsfolk to grasp.  No one ever knew what exactly happened that fateful summer night, where women screaming woke up Andrew and his parents.  Andrew, at 17, was especially affected.  Eden and he had become close friends since she was 11. He struggled with feelings of affection and being a protective \\"brother.  That night also marked the last time he saw Eden.<br />Delicately played out, the story unfolds with generous images.  Suspicions are implied, and the reader may guess at the perpetrator, but this in no way negatively impacts the impressive delivery.  This  is a lovely, tender story of bittersweet answers to a painful past.	2002-11-18
US	51740940	R2TN9O27N0MRDG	0316780375	480327121	The Weight of Water	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	parallel stories of impending doom	The setting of the book along the coast of New Hampshire is stunning.  Couple this with 5 people on a sailboat, a photography assignment researching a true crime 1873 mysterious double murder and off you go!<br />I was unfamiliar of the famous century old murders that has provoked numerous books, stories, speculations, internet sites and movies which took place off the coast of Maine on Smuttynose Island.  The murder,  involving three women and a small dog on a barren coastal island left many unanswered questions. The event has generated a sustained interest and speculation among the people  who live in the area. The book  takes liberty of this to create a sensational reconstruction of that fateful night.<br /><br />Jean is a photographer who is on assignment to photograph the island where the murder took place.  Her husband had arranged for his brother to sail  them on his boat to the islands  and port her back and forth to the island sites which are isolated except to  mariners.  Jean, her poet husband, Thomas and their daughter Billie embark on this adventure with Thomas's brother, Rich and his girl friend Adaline.<br />There is tension aboard.  Jean's and Thomas's marriage seems unstable, though both dote on their little 5 year old daughter with obvious adoration. Rich is seduced by Adaline, and every morning the sounds of the affection resonate through the sailboat creating furthur tension for Jean and Thomas. Jean feels Adaline is flirting with Thomas, quoting his poems  and carrying on with him while he is caught up in her attentions.  Rich feels Adaline is becoming more distant, and in general it is an emotionally insecure foursome ripe for crisis.<br />The skill the author uses to incorporate the parallel stories is obvious as the tension plays out.	2002-11-18
US	51740940	R37SD3D7XM06OP	0316780375	480327121	The Weight of Water	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	parallel stories of impending doom	The setting of the book along the coast of New Hampshire is stunning.  Couple this with 5 people on a sailboat, a photography assignment researching a true crime 1873 mysterious double murder and off you go!<br />I was unfamiliar of the famous century old murders that has provoked numerous books, stories, speculations, internet sites and movies which took place off the coast of Maine on Smuttynose Island.  The murder,  involving three women and a small dog on a barren coastal island left many unanswered questions. The event has generated a sustained interest and speculation among the people  who live in the area. The book  takes liberty of this to create a sensational reconstruction of that fateful night.<BR> <BR>Jean is a photographer who is on assignment to photograph the island where the murder took place.  Her husband had arranged for his brother to sail  them on his boat to the islands  and port her back and forth to the island sites which are isolated except to  mariners.  Jean, her poet husband, Thomas and their daughter Billie embark on this adventure with Thomas's brother, Rich and his girl friend Adaline.<br />There is tension aboard.  Jean's and Thomas's marriage seems unstable, though both dote on their little 5 year old daughter with obvious adoration. Rich is seduced by Adaline, and every morning the sounds of the affection resonate through the sailboat creating furthur tension for Jean and Thomas. Jean feels Adaline is flirting with Thomas, quoting his poems  and carrying on with him while he is caught up in her attentions.  Rich feels Adaline is becoming more distant, and in general it is an emotionally insecure foursome ripe for crisis.<br />The skill the author uses to incorporate the parallel stories is obvious as the tension plays out.	2002-11-18
US	51740940	R1Y1VCK50GZ2JN	0316781266	704361388	The Last Time They Met: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Compelling characters  in the past and present	I was fortunate by chance, to pick this novel up right after reading  _The Weight of Water_.  Attracted to this author, I felt I could not get enough of her writings.  Not aware of a sequel to the characters I found bighly intriguing in the _The Weight of Water_, I was especially pleased to find the same characters in this wonderful novel. <br />It was even more satisfying  to learn about these people long ago, and the history they shared together. This is introduced after they happen chance meet each other at a conference.  Many years have passed, yet when they see each other it is obvious there is coninued affection and a chance to resolve painful issues from the past.<br />Pieces of the puzzle are revealed that describe how Linda and Thomas arrived at an upscale hotel at a writer's  convention.  He, suffering terribly from a personal tragedy, has made a comeback in the field of poetry.  She, has made a success of herself as well, and when they see each other, the present and past merge to provide answers to questions that a reader (especially if they had read the prequel) will appreciate.	2002-11-18
US	51740940	RZAB7VBBJIJV6	015600710X	403499621	Strange Fits of Passion: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	When "passion" crosses over the line	This is a thriller of a story that has all the ingredients to qualify as an electric \\"page turner\\".<br />The setting of a small coastal town in Maine is eloquently depicted by the author as a refuge for Maureen, the physically and emotional abused wife of Harrold.  It is 1971, and we are compelling introduced to a marriage going disturbingly awry.<br />Fueled by alcohol and unresolved childhood abandonment issues, Harrold quickly moves through the stages to be a full-fledged spousal abuser. He is an up and coming New York journalist and  moves to seduce the new employee at his office.  Maureen, being the newly employed journalist is beautiful, idealistic and malleable. Harrold begins his abuse predictably.  Remorseful at first, he promises that the abuse will never happen again.  Of course, they do and the empty promises continue while Maureen prays that indeed, this will be the last time.  Through courtship, early marriage, pregnancy and post partum, the cycle continues and the tension mounts.<br /> Maureen, unsupported and isolated, frightened and repeatedly threatened by her husband suffers for herself and her infant daughter.  Fearing for her daughter after one horrific beating, she is finally motivated to escape. Waiting for her husband to lapse into alcoholic unconsciousness, bleeding and literally beaten to a pulp, she takes  a few possessions, the baby, and the money in her husband's pocket. She escapes into the night to drive north to any destination far enough away from the hell she has been in. The story shares how the people in town were effected by this young woman with a baby.  Maureen changes her name and tries to blend in to the anonymity which she needs to have to elude her husband. The consequences of her actions leave the town changed forever.<br /> Unfortunately, at this time in social history, spousal abuse awareness was in it's infancy and support for the victims virtually absent.  The majority of people chose to ignore the obvious signs and symptoms, justifying their inability to intervene with morally contrived comments that it was somehow inappropriate to interfere in any \\"man's\\" personal family life.  For the victim, it was truly a nightmare of immense proportion and social isolation.<br />The book is a remarkable insight into the mindframe of a 1970's  victim, abuser, family and bystanders.  Group readers will have plenty to grieve, celebrate and expound on.  This is a thought provoking novel that continues after the book has been finished.  I felt the title even revealed the misunderstanding of spousal abuse at the time.  Justified as passion, a man was legislatively allowed to \\"rape\\" his wife.  I can hear the old statements \\"she threw a fit\\" and needed to be \\"knocked into place.\\"  This is when passion and emotions cross the proverbial line and Anita Shreve makes it crystal clear that it is nothing but what it is - abuse.	2002-11-06
US	51740940	R3961ADR0FLVX3	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Poison Pen	Janet Finch took socially intriguing topics and put into our hands one of the most brilliant novels of all time.  <br />A stunning novel on so many levels, it is nearly impossible to adequately review the book and do it justice.  Her original story line is ripe with raw emotions, a coming of age story that is as bittersweet and disturbing as it gets.<br />An unlucky child is burdened with a mother suffering from mental illness, remarkable intelligence and a proclivity to torturing her daughter with her words. The unlucky, young child is separated from the mother by the courts, and the child is left to make due in whatever foster home is available at the moment.<br />The child must adjust, as children do, and take from their experiences that in which they can.  In the rare moments of true happiness, there shall always be the mother, and her words of poison from prison.	2002-11-06
US	51740940	R1YGJK7S77MVLX	0312283784	204384680	Alice's Tulips	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The women left behind during the Civil War	Sandra Dallas appears to be one of the more outstanding historical women's fiction novelists.  The evidence was _ The diary of Mattie Spenser_ which satisfied the longing for a good western women's novel for me.  I crave the minute details of their daily life back then, and she never failed to weave them into her plot.  <br />As easily as she is able to reveal the realities of daily living in her novels, it was just as delightful to learn about quilting which had historical significance at the time.  _Alice's Tulips_ is an entertaining read; one that  packs a punch with a surprising ending.  The story takes place during the Civil War, and Alice is a new bride brought to live on a Iowan farm with her new husband and his mother.  Her life is ultimately challenged when her husband leaves to join the Union effort, and she is left with her crotchety mother in law. Hardly more than a child herself, her mother in law may have felt just as irritated to be saddled with the likes of her new daughter in law. <br />Basically sweet and too trusting, Alice finds herself the object of unwanted attention by a dear friend's outlaw brother in law. At first, she was flattered by his attentions, being young and lonely without her husband. She finds herself having to rebut his advances and becomes the object of town gossip and speculation. Alice soon learns that life on the farm is difficult. Her mother in law is stern and unforgiving, the farm is falling apart, there is little food to eat, squatters are living on her property, her horse is failing and she is constantly being chastised.  She misses her husband desperately and fears he may never return from the war.<br /> Her only happiness is when she takes up her needle; not to inject herself, but to sew and  quilt.  This pastime was one of her several antidotes for those lonely nighttime hours stuck inside the small house.  The other pasttime was writing her sister, Lizzie, which is how the story is told to the reader.  These lettersover the years were surprisingly revealing of a young woman determined to survive the war with her husband beside her.	2002-11-06
US	51740940	RPFY663FB68A0	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Poison Pen	Janet Finch took socially intriguing topics and put into our hands one of the most brilliant novels of all time.  <br />A stunning novel on so many levels, it is nearly impossible to adequately review the book and do it justice.  Her original story line is ripe with raw emotions, a coming of age story that is as bittersweet and disturbing as it gets.<br />An unlucky child is burdened with a mother suffering from mental illness, remarkable intelligence and a proclivity to torturing her daughter with her words. The unlucky, young child is separated from the mother by the courts, and the child is left to make due in whatever foster home is available at the moment.<br />The child must adjust, as children do, and take from their experiences that in which they can.  In the rare moments of true happiness, there shall always be the mother, and her words of poison from prison.	2002-11-06
US	51740940	R2ZDTLNSOUYGLI	015600710X	403499621	Strange Fits of Passion: A Novel	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	When "passion" crosses over the line	This is a thriller of a story that has all the ingredients to qualify as an electric \\"page turner\\".<br />The setting of a small coastal town in Maine is eloquently depicted by the author as a refuge for Maureen, the physically and emotional abused wife of Harrold.  It is 1971, and we are compelling introduced to a marriage going disturbingly awry.<br />Fueled by alcohol and unresolved childhood abandonment issues, Harrold quickly moves through the stages to be a full-fledged spousal abuser. He is an up and coming New York journalist and  moves to seduce the new employee at his office.  Maureen, being the newly employed journalist is beautiful, idealistic and malleable. Harrold begins his abuse predictably.  Remorseful at first, he promises that the abuse will never happen again.  Of course, they do and the empty promises continue while Maureen prays that indeed, this will be the last time.  Through courtship, early marriage, pregnancy and post partum, the cycle continues and the tension mounts.<br /> Maureen, unsupported and isolated, frightened and repeatedly threatened by her husband suffers for herself and her infant daughter.  Fearing for her daughter after one horrific beating, she is finally motivated to escape. Waiting for her husband to lapse into alcoholic unconsciousness, bleeding and literally beaten to a pulp, she takes  a few possessions, the baby, and the money in her husband's pocket. She escapes into the night to drive north to any destination far enough away from the hell she has been in. The story shares how the people in town were effected by this young woman with a baby.  Maureen changes her name and tries to blend in to the anonymity which she needs to have to elude her husband. The consequences of her actions leave the town changed forever.<br /> Unfortunately, at this time in social history, spousal abuse awareness was in it's infancy and support for the victims virtually absent.  The majority of people chose to ignore the obvious signs and symptoms, justifying their inability to intervene with morally contrived comments that it was somehow inappropriate to interfere in any \\"man's\\" personal family life.  For the victim, it was truly a nightmare of immense proportion and social isolation.<br />The book is a remarkable insight into the mindframe of a 1970's  victim, abuser, family and bystanders.  Group readers will have plenty to grieve, celebrate and expound on.  This is a thought provoking novel that continues after the book has been finished.  I felt the title even revealed the misunderstanding of spousal abuse at the time.  Justified as passion, a man was legislatively allowed to \\"rape\\" his wife.  I can hear the old statements \\"she threw a fit\\" and needed to be \\"knocked into place.\\"  This is when passion and emotions cross the proverbial line and Anita Shreve makes it crystal clear that it is nothing but what it is - abuse.	2002-11-06
US	51740940	R11HE2FZ54CC8F	0394755405	880891233	Into the Heart of Borneo	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Keep me off the passenger list	The book is about two educated englishmen who venture to the island of Borneo determined to capture the the sights of a rare albino rhino.  The author sets the humor rolling straight off, and in his sardonic wit,  recounts his adventures into the rainforest of Borneo.<br /> Duly noted are the risks to life and limb (and appendages)he must be aware of during his adventure.  These lessons are given to him by his good natured guides who taunt and tease the overweight white (very white) man.  All in good fun, the banter flows both ways. Descriptions of their meals may take a tough stomach on the part of the reader.  He spared the reader nothing when it came to describing the delights of dinnertime. The recollection of some repasts, especially the gourmet monster lizard meals were among the more memorable (unfortunately). It was amazing what they scrounged up to eat.  I will not spoil all the little surprises they had at mealtime,  you will know soon enough when you read the book!<br />Aside from the culinary experience, I found the travel journey delightfully funny and educational. While I know this is NOT the kind of trip I would care to have, I appreciate that the author had the guts to do it.  At times, he doubted his stamina, but that is what made the novel work - he was a regular guy doing something outrageously difficult, not to mention dangerous.  I can see that this kind of adventure would appeal to many  others, but for me, I took his trip in an armchair where I was safe and knew what I was eating for lunch!<br />He is a charming writer, hooking the reader with teasing references.  I admit I learned alot about their culture and some of their more sensitive political and social issures.  A quick read, I went out and bought more of his books and look forward to a similar experience.	2002-09-23
US	51740940	R1494E14NFTOZZ	0671207148	488116612	The Johnstown Flood	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Shame goes down in history	I first became familiar with the Johnstown Flood by the book _In Sunlight, In a Beautiful Garden_ by K. Cambor.  Intrigued furthur, I bought this book and was not disappointed.<br />Carefully researched and brought to life in words, the event is just incredibly horrible.  Even worse is the reality that this was preventable, and had it not been for immensely self-centered, wealthy men (Mellon, Carnegie, Frick) the damn dam would never have been inadequately restored and improperly maintained.  For the benefits of so few (rich), so many people lost their  lives.  Towns virtually disappeared, wiped off the face of the earth along with livestock and  every tree, bush and flower for miles down-river. The human impact stories are over whelming.  Children were torn from their parent's arms in the crush of water that swept through their homes. Families were separated, their relatives buried in mud leaving their bodies unrecoverable for eternity.<br />The shame is undeniable.  What makes it worse is the fact that the richest men tried to make amends by contributing blankets to the survivors.<br />Just blankets.<br />This is a clear cut, tell it as it should be told book.	2002-09-16
US	51740940	R2A31WU2TUWXYS	0671207148	488116612	The Johnstown Flood	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Shame goes down in history	I first became familiar with the Johnstown Flood by the book _In Sunlight, In a Beautiful Garden_ by K. Cambor.  Intrigued furthur, I bought this book and was not disappointed.<br />Carefully researched and brought to life in words, the event is just incredibly horrible.  Even worse is the reality that this was preventable, and had it not been for immensely self-centered, wealthy men (Mellon, Carnegie, Frick) the damn dam would never have been inadequately restored and improperly maintained.  For the benefits of so few (rich), so many people lost their  lives.  Towns virtually disappeared, wiped off the face of the earth along with livestock and  every tree, bush and flower for miles down-river. The human impact stories are over whelming.  Children were torn from their parent's arms in the crush of water that swept through their homes. Families were separated, their relatives buried in mud leaving their bodies unrecoverable for eternity.<br />The shame is undeniable.  What makes it worse is the fact that the richest men tried to make amends by contributing blankets to the survivors.<br />Just blankets.<br />This is a clear cut, tell it as it should be told book.	2002-09-16
US	51740940	R137UDHEEJPNL7	0060007575	226907048	In Sunlight, in a Beautiful Garden: A Novel	Books	4	4	8	N	Y	Money begets tragedy, and gets away with it	On Memorial Day in 1889, above the town of Johnstown, Pa,  the South Fork dam burst nearly wiping out the town itself and many smaller towns downriver. Thousands were killed, livestock decimated and the township's  buildings, homes and infrastructure were literally wiped off the face of the earth.  Those that survived the initial assault were tested furthur as the cold night bore down on them. Shivering, injured, separated from loved ones, thirsty from the lack of potable water, left without food, desperate for medicine, bandages and clothes, they huddled together praying to make it until morning.  While waters swirled around them, the structures they managed to seek refuge in threatened to collapse, casting off the survivors into black, raging waters.  Even worse were those trapped inside structures and wedged downstream against the low bridge.  Fires had ignited from the still burning stoves of homes knocked off their foundations.  Massed in a huge jam, people burned to death and their screams could be heard throughout what was remaining of the town.  This was a tragedy of immense proportions.<br />The real tragedy is that the wealthy men who were ultimately responsible for the maintainance of the dam failed to make the dam safe.  The luxury of having a recreational and fishing lake were granted only to those rich enough to afford to vacation at the \\"club\\", and the area was strictly denied to any trespassers not registered with the fishing and hunting club.  Little to no consideration was given to the THOUSANDS of people below the dam, nor their homes, their animals and their livlihoods.  It is inconceivable that such callous disregard existed and that these \\"important\\" men got away with such transgressions!!<br />I guess I should not be surprised, as the foundation was set, and the same kind of disregard exists today as the corporate rich rob and plunder their companies at the expense of the working people.  <br />Skillfully revealed, the author makes no mistakeas to who is responsible. Delightfully entertaining, there are intriguing characters to lighten the impact of such a horrific event.	2002-09-16
US	51740940	R2OIPN57Q48O80	0679768521	51780596	On Gold Mountain: The One-Hundred-Year Odyssey of My Chinese-American Family	Books	5	208	212	N	N	Compelling family history of the See family	Born into a predominately Cantonese family, Lisa See is surprised when as a young girl, her chinese uncles point at her and describe \\"white ghosts, like you\\".  Surprised, she realized she appeared white, but felt chinese.  Surrounded by her older relatives, she listened to their stories and became determined to capture their memories.  Approached by her elder female aunties, they expressed a desire to document the family history.  As the primary family members became aged, Lisa took  up the rewarding challenge to pen the history of the incredible See family.<br />This is truly a beautiful book.  Ms. See has an obvious talent for research and her efforts were rather astonishing when one reads the history of her ancestors.  Not only does she historically account for chinese immigration to the states, but details the events and cultures of life in China.  Tracing back to the time of her grandfather See-Bok's early years, Ms  See writes about her family that turns out to be more than a page turner.<br />The family is entertaining, intelligent, strong and industrious.  Her grandmother is the star of the novel.  A pioneer white christian woman, she is abused by her own family and escapes a life of servitude forced on her by them. In a central californian town, she talks herself into a job at a chinese underwear factory that caters to prostitutes.  The  chinese owner eventually proposes to her despite significant social complications.  This is the beginning of one of the most important chinese families in America and their contributions to the art world and their personal tales of challenge and love in the early Los Angeles years.	2002-09-10
US	51740940	R1I6QD7M89H7PG	0553272586	488633293	Farewell to Manzanar: A True Story of Japanese American Experience During and  After the World War II Internment	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	highly recommended	On the west side of highway 395 sits the remains of a japanese internment camp.  There are graves, building foundations and the remnants of larger facility buildings standing in silent attention to the memory of  a large population that held the same heritage as the enemy the US was at war with. The mountains of the eastern sierras stand as witness to an injustice visited upon these people.  Today, the reality strikes disbelief that this kind of event could have ever been allowed to occur.<br />    In a sensitive style, Jeanne Wakatsuki Houston relives her and her family's experiences at the camp.  Her extended family copes as best they can in living conditions worse than some prisons.  The accounting of a young girl growing up and trying to make the best of a bad situation is truly inspiring and testament to the strength and integrity of a family unit and culture strong enough to take on a deeply disturbing event.	2002-09-02
US	51740940	R2A7VRSO53UF99	0786886307	719432164	Stolen Lives: Twenty Years in a Desert Jail (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	15	18	N	Y	Behind palace doors is the real story	When I had finished reading this book, I naturally felt   sympathetic for what this family experienced.  Twenty years were taken from them as they were incarcerated in an assortment of facilities.  Some of these jails were very accommodating, providing food, entertainment, visits to the city and visitors.  In the later years, their confinement was more severe in general.<br />    What began to disturb me were the unanswered questions I could not help but contemplate.  While no one would question a daughter's love for her father, his responsibility in the coup attempt was not explored in greater detail.  I felt she was beginning to question the flagrant life style and rule of the King, but politically, justification for her father's behavior was sadly lacking.  It is quite noble to take the rap (20 years) for your executed father's sins, but dreamy reminisces of how her father spent the afternoon with her doesn't justify the sacrifice her entire family suffered for his actions.<br />Far more appalling is a culture that condones the ruling party to abuse young women and girls and take them as sexual toys and playthings.  This revelation  is far more compelling  to the reader as she accounts for the shocking conditions that take place behind palace doors.  Stealing young children away from their family simply as playthings for the \\"royal child\\" is disgusting.  Grooming children to sexually cater to \\"the king\\" is worse than disgusting.  The exhibition demonstrated by the rich  is beyond belief in comparison to the stark poverty of the country's peasants. The recollections by the author of her early years and the lifestyle her family enjoyed is just frankly obscene.  Actually, I give her credit for her honesty, but I couldn't help feel that she would go back to it with no hesitation had the opportunity arose.<br />     In these difficult days lately, when one hears of Muslims criticizing Americans for their extravagance, I admit it is very difficult for me to restrain myirritation since reading this book.	2002-09-02
US	51740940	R20OUE08VLCSHQ	0156011433	593236463	Snow Mountain Passage	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	More than Gore	Alert: Spoiler Alert  Through the eyes of eight year old Patty Reed and her father, Jim, the story of the Donner Party is told.  While  most equate this devastating event to cannabalism, the rewards of this beautifully told historical novel will forever replace that focus to one of remarkable human endurance and love. Jim Reed was captivated by writings of others who had immigrated to the West.  Tales of plentiful land, resources and healthy climate gradually convinced him to take his family and his sickly wife in search of such promises.  A book written by attourney Lansford Hastings, _The Emigrant's Guide_  especially influenced him. He trusts the claims of a disease free life and a purity of atmosphere in California and he also trusts that the writer traveled the trails of which he wrote. His neighbors and friends were soon captivated by the possibilities and ultimately agreed to travel west together.  Loaded with their belongings, hundreds of stock and high hopes, they set off for California. Human frailties eventually prevailed.  What began with high spirits soon were dampened by the inevitable conflicts and confrontations which occurred on the trail.  Stress, physical and mental exhaustion, lack of food and water mixed explosively with family jealousies, infighting, religious and cultural differences. One day, Mr. Reed is confronted by another trailsman.  Angry and frustrated, he is literally beating to death his own oxen and Jim's animals.  Sensing the stupidity of the man's actions, Jim attempts to intervene but the delirious  man lashes out at Jim's wife and then Jim.  He continues his rage, lashing open the entire forehead of Jim.  Stunned, Jim falls to the ground but the man again comes at him and Jim pulls a knife reluctantly to protect himself.  The man is accidently killed, but to his family and others the event causes a furor. Men with past grudges want justice and Jim's life.  A rope is found for the purpose of hanging.  It becomes a turning point for the party.  A decision is made that Jim must leave the party immediately.  Protesting, his wife begs him to leave so his life is spared.  No one can be trusted, now.  It caused the birth of the doom that was to befall the Donner Party.  The summit and the early winter snow was the final insult. As Patty recounts her experiences, it is the words of a grown woman looking back and benefiting from the years of reconstructing the events that happened so long ago.  The humble appreciation for those that gave their lives so she lived makes for an incredibly beautiful story.  The horrors that one so young experienced is tempered by the years and acceptance that life is never fair. Her recollection of the nights and days that 84 men, women and children shared are beyond comprehension.  The strength that these families had is more than obvious as Jim Reed and others sacrifice their  lives and limbs to mount multiple rescue attempts in repeated efforts to bring out not only his family, but the very ones who banished him from the party months before.	2002-05-30
US	51740940	RPY1RQRQFRQLS	087113361X	387019006	Malaria Dreams: An African Adventure	Books	4	3	6	N	N	This  isn't paradise	This book, first  of all, is not the typical \\"vacation book\\" one may purchase to motivate themselves with tales of lovely places and experiences to relish on your long awaited exotic South African adventure. <br />It should be acknowledged that this is a tongue in cheek review of either an ignorant gentleman, or an educated travel writer delivering just what the reader loves to read.  Taken too seriously, the book is offensive.  Taken too literally, one can barely believe anyone so STUPID would undertake an  assignment such as the author does with no preparation whatsoever. Taken modestly, with appreciation for the genuine spirit of all people, one can easily see the unique capacity the African people have to live life and share generously with strangers passing by.<br />The endemic frustrations of travel are mirrored constantly by Mr. Stevens.  In comic reproductions, it is recalled for the benefit of the reader, of course.  The stories are hilarious and bittersweet.  Many times I relished the fact that I was  home and not experiencing the agony he was. Many more times, I assured myself that I would never subject myself to such unprepared punishment.  But, this is what titillates a travel reader, experiencing a travel writer's life in the insured lounger of one's insured home. I appreciate those that cast their fate to  the winds, and allow their adventures to take shape according to chance.  It was just such  opportunities that the author encountered. Unexpectantly, and often at times of great distress, he and his companion were invited into the townspeople's homes. Later, after  being fed, bathed and liquored, solid friendships formed, and the true spirit of  traveling in Central Africa was appreciated.	2002-05-09
US	51740940	R28S1Y0V0R7NGB	0802138535	644915571	Speed Queen	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Straight Speed	The clock is ticking, and death row inmate Marjorie Standiford knows it. Her demise is scheduled but her determination to set the record straight as far as she is concerned is paramount.  <br />Marjorie has become famous, noted as the \\"Speed Queen\\" for her appetite for speed, fast cars and her criminal history.  Her last night is spent huddled up with a tape recorder as she recounts her personal history and the chilling events that culminated into a night of total terror.<br />Equally bizarre is the contrast of  Marjorie as a mother of a young son and her relationship with another woman that becomes the fuse for the bomb ready to blow.  Narrated to  a writer well versed in horror, her story does hit new levels in brutal crime.  How does one get caught up in such a situation, how is it that others influence so deeply what course an event takes?  <br />Truly, a unique novel, as unique as O'Nan is with all his books. I am always ready to experience something new with O'Nan and he did not fail to deliver another thriller.	2002-04-18
US	51740940	R3H0QM319Q4IQN	0451202821	401544902	Her Daughter's Eyes	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Failing to see the big picture	If there is any book that defines \\"lack of communication\\" this is it.<br /> Reeling from his wife's death a year ago, a middle aged father (Davis) neglects his responsibilities to his very own teenaged girls in favor of accommodating the arms and needs of a new love, Hannah.  Unfortunately, his unresolved grief, coupled with his sexual appetite, obstructs all common sense and basic observation skills. Choosing to spend most of his time (and nights) at Hannah's home, he basically has abandoned his own children for the needs of Hannah's young boys and her special interests.<br /> He drops by his own house to do the minimum; some yard work, pay bills, and maybe share a hastily purchased pizza which must be gobbled quickly before \\"Hannah\\" reminds him they must rush off to pick up her boys from day care. His quick check that the house was still standing sufficed for quality time parenting and reassurance that the girls were \\"just fine.\\"<br />Well, a closer look would have confirmed an extraordinarily different picture.  The girls are deeply grieving for their mom, lonely, frightened and spending almost every night alone without their father.  Physically, they manage to get by with the money he throws at them for food and necessities, but their world is crashing down on them. As children, they make decisions as  children would; albeit unsupervised children. The eldest is pregnant and successfully concealing it from not only her father, but Hannah, (one experienced in pregnancy) her teachers and the father of the child, who just so happens to be the next door neighbor and father of the children she babysits.<br />Choosing to conceal the pregnancy AND birth, Kate has convinced her younger sister to assist her through it all. Together, they educate themselves with the birthing process and succeed to bring about Kate's new daughter in secret. It is inconceivable that the father ignored the many indicators that something was amiss.  <br />Many adults were involved in these girl's lives, and all of them missed the obvious.  This is a very sad, passionately told story.  The concept of blame and punishment could produce another story, as one contemplates the legal and moral ramifications of the neglect the children suffered. While one may emotionally tangle with that issue, please don't fail to notice the poignant reflections of the pain, heartbreak and joy that the girls experience together upon the birth of the baby girl.  When the dust clears, and everyone must take stock of the situation, it is  quite clear that another innocent child has entered the \\"picture\\".	2002-04-18
US	51740940	R1Y95XW1G7YDT0	0140053204	690446916	Travels with Charley in Search of America	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Timeless Travel	I have read my fair share of travel books.   Intrigued by other's perceptions of distant places, I never mind being the passive partner in their adventures.<br />Steinbeck's travels feel timeless.  He has the skill to grasp the experience of yesterday and make it seem like it is today.  It was with extreme pleasure to read of him simply packing up for his trip in his very new, custom made camper that he named Rocinate.  He delights in explaining the intricate features of the camper, running water, stove, bedding and water tank.  As he kisses his wife goodbye, he and his poodle, Charley take off to see the United States and the people that live there.<br />Of extreme delight is getting to know the moods and habits of Charley.  Before long, you feel as if he is sitting beside you, fftting you to go out.  He was an attraction, the ice breaker that brought many of the characters Steinbeck writes about to life.  As Steinbeck moves from state to state, he relishes his friendship with this dog.  He writes down his memories and feelings and these beautiful, funny, timeless reminisces feel just as fresh today as they were yesterday.	2002-04-18
US	51740940	R14E4I0TMLKUFY	037570910X	292207917	The Feast of Love: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Talk Soup	Charles Baxter opens with an intriguing plot.  It begins with two insomniacs who are neighbors, out in the wee hours of the morning, taking in the night air.  They happen to meet unexpectantly in the local football stadium, each lost in their own thoughts and gazing down upon two young lovers going out for the long pass on the 50 yard line.<BR>   <BR>  Passing the nights in conversation, one of the neighbors suggests to the other (who is a writer) to write a book about his love life.  He offers to deliver true characters, ones that the writer himself could interview.  He dares the writer to try him on for size, and even provides the name for the book, _The Feast of Love_.  The writer initially balks, but takes the bait.<br />  And so, the feast is on.  In each character's own words, a circle of lovers, friends and family come full round for an extremely entertaining novel.  Some of the passages are hilarious and some quite poignantly bittersweet.  Love is revealed in all it's glory and horror.  Aside form some of these characters having impossibly vast vocabularies and similar speech patterns, the novel works.  A quick read, it poses little difficulty except if you happen to lay the book down for too long and lose retention of the nuances of each person's unique story line and personality quirks.  Better to re-read what you forgot than not completely savor all the flavors of love and the talk that goes on about it.	2002-02-18
US	51740940	R1QBN9P7LJ5X9N	0805057757	113048197	A World Away: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A gentle story line worthy of a reader's investment	This is the kind of novel that may challenge a reader's investment. It is a book worthy of reading, but one that may take deeper reflection and patience for  the story line and time period to assimilate.  For some one that lived in this time, I imagine it could be an entirely different experience.  O'Nan has obviously researched the era; the references to war events, the battles in Alaska, the names of songs and radio stations  could bring back potent memories to the right persons.  Even though it is not a time period I am intimately familiar to, I did feel caught up in much of the storyline.<br />The novel is  subtle. Unlike many war stories, it concentrates on the family left at home.  The war did not stop people from living their lives, making mistakes, having affairs and coping with the usual events any family must deal with.  The investment the reader must make is to be patient enough to allow the characters to reveal themselves and for the gentle ambience so well presented by the author to enhance the story. <br />The story may not be as gripping as is the feel of the book, the emotional and crystal reminisces of the characters and the incredibly unique years of WWII.	2002-01-11
US	51740940	R2URBR0YC91CV6	0140267727	554799483	Another Day in Paradise	Books	5	30	31	N	Y	Not every person's typical day in paradise	There are certain books you  can pass along to friends and loved ones with high marks,  and, then, there are books you give very high marks to,  but choose not to pass them along.<br />Your aunt Maude would probably  not understand this fantastic novel at all.  Your mother would wonder why the hell you loved it so much.   You would feel frustrated to defend your preferences, and, so, it may be easier to keep it in your bookcase and only offer it, if at all, to persons evaluated to be of the nature to appreciate  a literary genius.<br />This is potent material.  As a nurse working  in emergency medicine and in forensics, I search for an understanding of such pathology.  Aside from a  gripping novel,  I can not escape  the impact of  such revelations by the author.  He opened more than his  soul to expose this kind of wound on paper.<br />If you want to understand addiction, read this novel.<BR>If you want to know what to expect when you are completely addicted to your drug  of choice, go to page 226, paragraph 11.  There, in full blown absolute reality, is the truth. Only someone intimate with the issue could tell it straight.  Eddie spent some very difficult nights and days in order to elucidate the hell he went through.  The gift for all users is to be good enough to translate the truth into words that the most unyielding addict will pay  attention to. <BR>In an extraordinary novel, Eddie has done just that.	2002-01-10
US	51740940	R20GUIGOZRQBBA	1578562341	359378959	What Once We Loved (Kinship and Courage Series #3)	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Satisfying conclusion to a wonderful journey	The last book of a series of 3, Jane Kirkpatrick knocks out the last with a resounding hooray!!<br />The women we have come to know, love and admire,  have come to life in these novels. We rejoiced in  their arrival to the west and urged them on in their endeavors to support themselves.  Suddenly, an untimely accident throws some of them  in turmoil amongst themselves. Friendships are shakey, and the constant threat of retaliation from Ruth's husband forces Ruth to make a plan that will forever change the life of her little girl, but save her life in the long run.  The struggle continues and for some of them, they doubt their self worth and abilities.  Not all have coped with their new lives and some have moved forward to place their lives in jeopardy.  For those of us who know them well,  you will not be disappointed with the conclusion.	2001-11-29
US	51740940	RNZ40E7OB0TNY	1578562341	359378959	What Once We Loved (Kinship and Courage Series #3)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Satisfying conclusion to a wonderful journey	The last book of a series of 3, Jane Kirkpatrick knocks out the last with a resounding hooray!!<br />The women we have come to know, love and admire,  have come to life in these novels. We rejoiced in  their arrival to the west and urged them on in their endeavors to support themselves.  Suddenly, an untimely accident throws some of them  in turmoil amongst themselves. Friendships are shakey, and the constant threat of retaliation from Ruth's husband forces Ruth to make a plan that will forever change the life of her little girl (...).  The struggle continues and for some of them, they doubt their self worth and abilities.  Not all have coped with their new lives and some have moved forward to place their lives in jeopardy.  For those of us who know them well,  you will not be disappointed with the conclusion.	2001-11-29
US	51740940	R34VSHUPAU468	0452282063	858015443	Siam: or The Woman Who Shot a Man	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	Allusive, disturbing and incredible	This is a novel that obviously promoted strong pro and con sentiments.  I found that many of the reasons that the readers were disturbed by the novel was what I liked best about it.  This is certainly not a book for those that must have all their questions answered.  This novel is a suggestion of Thai history, allusive, mysterious and provocative. <br />This is a story of a rather naive young American woman, Claire, who marries impulsively to a military contractor working out of Thailand during the Vietnam war.  She must cope with a new culture, servants she distrusts and a husband that she becomes suspicious of.  Yet, there is a tone of mystery, a friend they met at a dinner party disappears. Based on a real event, Jim Thompson, an American silk buisnessman disappears during a vacation. Claire becomes obsessed with his absence, along with other issues of her life that begin to unravel.<br />At first, her arrival prompted her to take Thai language lessons, research Thai history and culture in the local library and join a military wives weekly tour group. The plunge into Thai culture begins to take it's toll on Claire.  She mistrusts the servants, and later finds items missing that she treasures.  Worst, she doubts her debonair husband and fears he is having affairs with friend's wives.  She takes to examining his dirty laundry for evidence of infidelity.  She can't sleep and begins to drink more. She misses her home and her family.  She finds the Thai food disgusting and the outside town filthy.  There is a palpable tension that the author alludes to, a crisis in the making and a constant referral to the violence of the Thai past intersecting with this woman's life.<br />I guarantee all your questions will not be answered.  The ending is  allusive and disturbing. While accepting the novel as it is would be my advice, I would relish the opportunity to review this book in a book club setting.  I am sure the interpretations would be various and vast.  Don't let the originality put you off to an incredible unique novel.	2001-11-29
US	51740940	R30WEBLORIVAMJ	1886371156	199735599	White Trash in a Trailer Park	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	One man's trash is another man's treasure	A surprisingly intriguing story line brings forth a select grouping of trailer park residents and their emotional stews.  Humorous, sensitive and a quick read, this is  delightful fiction for those craving diversion.	2001-11-27
US	51740940	R3VISJ0WZFNW6K	0140187529	452467692	The Wayward Bus (Twentieth-century Classics)	Books	5	62	63	N	Y	Raising more than eyebrows in the 1940's!!!	For many readers, it is natural to review the current releases, waiting for that gripping novel with  brilliant social interpretations and charactors that are unforgettable. Well, I have one for you!<br />Take a small corner cafe, dependent on the intersection of two highways, one of which leads south to Los Angeles.  It is post war, and times have not been easy with rationing, economic and personal stresses on everyone. The wayward bus links small town with big town, and therein lies the stage for a group of passengers, bus drivers, waitresses and mechanics that move the story forward with insightful urgency that only Steinbeck can pull off. The current paperback book cover portrays Joan Collins in the late 1950's as Alice, slumped forward over a glass of whiskey in the cafe table booth, despising herself and her life.  On the bus are a group of people that are together only by chance and the luck of the draw.  The story reveals what happens when this incompatible group of people are confronted with a broken down bus in a rain storm. They lust and hate each other.  The use and abuse each other.  They love and forget each other, but will they ever forgive what happens when fatigue and compromise break down all their defenses and expose themselves for the true persons they are? <BR>The uniqueness of _The Wayward Bus_  is that this story reveals an intriguing denotation of the 1940's post war attitude and social beliefs from a cast of characters that will keep the pages turning.  Amazingly, I found these characters to be just as relevant today as Steinbeck portrayed them in the 1940's.  Not only can this author grasp the soul of characters and depict them for the reader, he has an ability to unite land and story.<BR>    I have been drawn to Steinbeck for years, and recently I have made efforts to read most of his work. This book was not really known to me, unlike many of his novels which are discussed frequently in reader's circles.  This novel seemed so fresh to me,and with some imagination I can wonder of it's reception upon the initial publication.  This is a novel that certainly raised more than a few eyebrows!	2001-11-27
US	51740940	R1R9YKEQW7PTDW	1886371156	199735599	White Trash in a Trailer Park	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	One man's trash is another man's treasure	A surprisingly intriguing story line brings forth a select grouping of trailer park residents and their emotional stews.  Humorous, sensitive and a quick read, this is  delightful fiction for those craving diversion.	2001-11-27
US	51740940	R3FP3MDZBZO6R6	0060987510	195525767	These Is My Words: The Diary of Sarah Agnes Prine, 1881-1901 Arizona Territories	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	My personal &quot;Book of the Year&quot;, I dedicate this to Mom	Mom, this is to thank you for introducing me to the &quot;covered wagon days&quot;, for giving me _Jubilee Trail_ by Gwen Bristow, and introducing me to the life long interest and love for those women and men that pioneered the west.<br />There is no doubt that this book wins book of the year for me.  <br />I wish I could urge everyone to read this novel, for it is one of the most entertaining books I have ever read.  Nancy Turner has brought the Arizona Territory in the late 1800's alive, and the impression of it will literally be so vivid, you will feel as if you made a movie in your mind with the read.<br />As other reviewers have expressed, you cannot put this book down.  I guarantee you will care deeply for the characters and their experiences will be unique to us in this time period.  It is obvious extensive and accurate research went into her preparations.  In many ways, this accuracy is what brings this book to life and transplants the reader into the very time period to make the story more of an experience than a simple novel read.<br />An accurate accounting of Sarah Prine, a young woman moving into the Arizona territories with her family, her life is revealed in a diary format, but richly endorsed with her marvelous gift for story telling, humor and feisty spirit.  You can not help but unite behind all of her endeavors, loving those that love her and feeling equally betrayed and traumatized by those who do the same. This is a strong woman, and her experiences are intense.  This is no fairy tale, it is an accounting of all the life experiences a young woman must face on her own in a new land constantly besieged by the lawless and coping with Indians fighting to retain their ancient lands for their own.  Gripping accounts of attacks during their migration to the Territories are told along with the struggles the people had to maintain their families and cope with the incredible demands of the journey. Interestingly, disgust was levied at husbands who impregnated their wives prior to and on the trail.  Military escorts were forced to make those ill and in labor travel, unable to afford the luxury of ceasing the migration due to indian threat and  cold weather impeding their progress.<br />This is a powerful novel and I cherish the thought that women like Sarah lived, loved and founded homes in the great American West.	2001-11-27
US	51740940	R2KEEZJV8N66FX	0201608170	225390378	The Virgin Queen: Elizabeth I, Genius Of The Golden Age	Books	4	3	8	N	N	Not just a boring bio	For those interested in the life of Queen Elizabeth, I recommend this biography.  Unlike a cold interpretation, Hibbert allows us an accounting that reads fairly easily with descriptive details lively enough to keep the pages turning.	2001-10-04
US	51740940	R1T7M9K3PTJUU7	0312264216	784017402	Acts of God: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Fallout inevitable when family secrets are revealed	For many of us that grew up as kids in the 50's, this novel will awaken memories of your childhood. For those who were parents in the 50's, Mary Morris brilliantly depicts family life and parental relationships. Not quite as caustic as _The Women's Room_, Mary Morris easily reconstructs the roles of the 50's wife and mother, not to mention, the single mother that rocks the town with her seductiveness.<BR> <BR> The main character, Tess, reluctantly travels to her hometown on the shore of Lake Michigan for her 30th high school reunion. This is the preface for the unfolding of her past and how she copes with her present. Shocking secrets are revealed and bittersweet heartbreaks from long ago are revisited.<BR> <BR> Tess could not avoid \\"Margaret\\", dubbed the new girl long ago by Tess and her gal-pal gang. Introduced to the elementary class as \\"the new girl\\", the nick name stayed with Margaret all through her school years. At first, Tess was determined not to allow this new girl to upset the status quo of the girl's group. Eventually, Tess finds herself alternately repelled and intrigued by Tess.<br /> Insecure and different, Margaret is determined to establish a relationship with Tess, thereby merging with the gang. Margaret emulates Tess, deliberately copying her dress, inviting herself into Tess' home and flirting with her boyfriends. Tess was torn with her feelings about Margaret. She felt angry with Margaret when Margaret forced herself on their play group. At times she felt pity and sympathy for this wild, lost soul crying for her daddy that was to come and take her away from her mother so she could live with him. At other times, she felt excited by Margaret's crazy spirit. Margaret challenged Tess to tempt fate and flirt with danger, a heady experience for a young girl committed to being \\"a good girl\\".<br /> Tess, a \\"daddy's girl\\" was devoted to her father. A traveling claims insurance adjuster, he must take to the road every Sunday night, and return Thursday orFriday. Tess and her two brothers try to cope with his absense, but, Lily, their mother struggles to adjust and eventually begins to decompensate. Her behavior becomes more bizarre in his absence, confrontational in his company. Tess and her brothers keep busy with their age appropriate activities. Tess has a sleep over, everyone reveals secrets in a game they play. Margaret holds back. She has a secret, but it is so huge, so awful, she will not tell a soul. Tess feels left out, she can not think of one secret she knows that she could confide.<br /> The reunion dredges up memories that Tess was content to let lie. But, a gathering storm prevails, and it has been coming for a long time. A tornado of secrets finally vents it's fury, and the casualties become evident. When all is said and done, the acts of all these characters leads to a climatic conclusion. No one is left untouched.	2001-10-04
US	51740940	RGSVMM95ME55D	0312147015	253392869	The Persian Pickle Club	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Don't let the odd title put you off	An excellent author will lead you to their other novels, as Ms. Dallas did for me.  <BR>  <BR>  The Persian Pickle Club is a 1930 depression era quilt club, but the soul of the club are the women of the town in Harveyville, Kansas.  The club is a friendship foundation, support group and charity network that goes beyond these implications.  We are allowed an extremely poignant glimpse into the lives of these women, and the unique pecking order, so to speak that has been established within the context of the club.<br />  While somewhat annoying, certain characters that make up the group will certainly grate on your tolerance.  But a subtle understanding is promoted as one  continues to unravel the secrets and relationships that the group protects.  Friendships within the group mean everything to these women, and the sacrifices they go through on behalf of each other is truly wonderful.	2001-09-20
US	51740940	R2K2DZGFC5MJKW	1578562333	134927628	No Eye Can See (Kinship and Courage Series #2)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Another historical winner	Jane Kirkpatrick's sequel serves up another wholesome read.  We follow the women into Shasta City where their journey ends and the attempt to make a living and a home for themselves becomes their newest priority.  Each woman must face their own issues and cope with their personal frailties.  In the face of the gold rush, everything becomes more complicated and expensive.  Should they ban together as before, or should they say goodbye and get on with their lives independently?<BR>      This is another rich story guaranteed to prolong reader's fascination for this time period.	2001-09-14
US	51740940	R38KCADYGWXHJ	1578562325	597322113	All Together in One Place (Kinship and Courage Series #1)	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	Faith, determination and friendship across the Oregon Trail	This is a &quot;must read&quot; novel for anyone interested in the 1850's westward journey to reach California and Oregon over the historical Oregon Trail. The pioneers risked everything to make it there and the courage, strength and determination they had to have is an astonishing accomplishment.  <br />Jane Kirkpatrick weaves a grand story based on a true accounting by Ezra Meeker in  his 1852 journal.  It notes his profound impression of a small group of  covered wagons reaching their final destination along the Trail. In disbelief, he observes that there were no men in this group of 11 women and children. All the men had died along the way leaving the women to fend for themselves.  Based on this recollection, Ms. Kirkpatrick reveals obvious historical research to enhance the story line and satisfy those historically hungry readers with accurate representations of life along the trail.<br />I would furthur urge historical buffs to pay attention to the author's notes and acknowledgments following the conclusion of the story.  She recommends many excellent reference books which offer true accounts of the overlanders experiences, including detail books regarding everything from the pioneer's clothing to maps.<br />A truly wonderful book, the reader should be pleased to know they have two more sequels to keep the wonder going!	2001-07-11
US	51740940	R2QVO63CTXH43K	0385424094	236276203	A Mother's Love	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A tug on your heart strings you will never forget	First of all, I would like to defer to the editor's review which acknowledges a wonderful summary of this extraordinary novel by Mary Morris. Second, I would like to express my appreciation to amazon.com for offering &quot;I have one to sell&quot; book sales by private parties.  Unfortunately, this book is out of print, but I was able to easily purchase this book via the private part resale.  I received the book within 5 days, and indeed, it was in good condition.<br />Inspired by the other books I have read recently by Ms. Morris, I must tell you that this is an extremely accomplished author with a unique ability to get to the heart and souls of relationships.  I was frequently moved to tears, happy and sad, as my so-called heart strings were played on.  An engrossing page turner from the first chapter, I was unable to put it down, and was not disappointed one bit with the ending.  Indeed, throughtout the entire book, I kept trying to second guess how she was going to end this book.  It held an edge of suspense, yet maintained a subtle grounding of reality that did not betray the believability of the plot.  I am so sorry that this is out of print, but if you love Mary Morris' many novels and memoirs, you will not be inconvenienced by making the slight effort to order it alternatively.	2001-06-10
US	51740940	R3IQZYJXWCS32K	0375724370	924994086	Anil's Ghost: A Novel	Books	3	4	6	N	Y	I Gave up the Ghost	I had high expectations when I bought this book!<br /> Mr. Ondaatje, after all,  wrote _The English Patient_ which was one of the most beautiful movies I have ever seen.  Perhaps my mistake was only seeing the movie and not reading his book.<br />Unfortunately, I have to report that _Anil's Ghost_  is disjointed, difficult and nearly impossible to finish. The reviews sounded enticing and I could not help but feel extraordinarily intrigued by the promise of the plot.  I was very attracted to reading about a native Sri Lankan woman, Anil,  educated in England and America.  She is a forensic anthropologist working for an international human rights organization summomed to her homeland to investigate the murders and assorted organized atrocities against people from her country. Those responsible come from many factions, including the government.  She is not an innocent to investigating these horrors.  Her career has moved her through many towns in South and Central America where the task of locating clandestine burial sites and unearthing human remains is often done in the presence of family members hoping to identify the victims.  Often, only a recognized  piece of clothing found with the remains are all the immediate family has to confirm a loved one's death. The challenge to the anthropologists are not only determining the cause of death, but investigating the forensics to find those responsible.  <br />The basic story has merit and deserves respect for the efforts done globally by organizations committed to promoting and protecting human rights and investigating human rights violations. It goes without question that there is beautiful prose, and exceptionally intriguing content.  It is just so unfortunate that the union of this novel's  plot, (which went in too many directions), characters (too weak) and conclusion  (too abrupt) did not do justice to it's important topic and make the read more deserving of widespread notoriety.	2001-06-03
US	51740940	R17298MXJPICCE	037570485X	610660223	The Inn at Lake Devine	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Inn and out,...A Ready to Wear kind of book	If you want a quick, easy, light hearted summer novel, this would please you!<br /> This is a great book to either zip through, or casually meander without the worry of losing track of the story.  Put it down, go for a swim, or a weekend vacation.  When you come back to it, it will be still fresh and memorable.  Better yet, take it with you, if you go away.. Simply put, a perfect summer time book, &quot;ready to wear&quot;, so to speak.<br />This is a sweet, good humored, yet, sensitive story about a young, jewish girl facing one of her earliest experiences of predjudice. At the age of 12 years, she encounters the reality of her family affected by religious persecution.  Her family inquires as to reservations for a summer get-away and is blatantly  slighted by the vacation resort called The Inn at Lake Devine. Provoked by the reply that follows in response, she instantly becomes a young advocate, mailing material alledging the resort's transgressions.<br />  Dating back to 1962, the memory of her family being rebuffed by the gentile Vermont Inn becomes somewhat of an obsession for Natalie.  The sweet comedy alights from the relationships that originate and the ones that are celebrated at this very resort.  A passive/aggressive or love/hate relationship is developed between the inn and Natalie AND the relatives between the two.  <br />The fun is seeing the end result.  Not bitter, not mean spirited, it is sweet rewards for Natalie who carries a hurt in her heart long enough to do something about it.	2001-06-03
US	51740940	R1U5L8VXLMQ8BG	031219949X	982215764	Angels and Aliens: A Journey West	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Moving on and up; a woman's personal fulfillment	It takes a brutally honest author, as Mary Morris is, and has done, to admit what she did for love.  The sacrifices Mary made on behalf of her lover and father of her baby is basically the spinal cord for the novel. Her search for life's meanings and attempts to reconnect to a world so devoid of personal responsibility by this man open up painful recollections, yet serves as a foundation to offer her fresh experiences and rich sources of humor and honesty which are skillfully revealed. <br />Let me say right off that this is not just another &quot;man bashing novel&quot;. It would be truly unfortunate for a reader to be unable or unwilling to see beyond the appalling behavior of her partner and  not appreciate how brave she is to allow this information to be shared.  The fact that he is professionally influential is a sad reflection on the perception of the public. <br /> Personally he is manipulative and deceptive, or, also known as &quot;married with children.&quot;  Providing for his &quot;first&quot; family and their priorities, he makes promises AND children (not by his first wife, obviously) he can not and will not keep.  Do not ask him for his time, he has &quot;too many commitments&quot;.  Electing to buy an expensive pure bred puppy to give as a present to his legitimite son, he sends ROSES  for his and Mary's daughter's first birthday.   Never a cent to feed, clothe or care take her, he neglects all responsibility for his fatherhood.  Left to babysit for only one hour, he forgets where the baby is in favor of a  televised ball game.  When confronted by  Mary, wakened and shocked into an incredulously terrified alertness , he notices the baby poised at the electric socket,  her little finger wet and ready to probe.  He is, however,  unwilling to divert his attention from the TV. Obviously relieved that mom has come to HIS rescue, he returns to the game oblivious to the consequences of his behavior.<br />The attraction of this novel is, therefore, dependenton Mary's awakening.  The pages will turn rapidly with anticipation and your senses will be alert, preparing for all possibilities.  It is difficult not to relate, she effectively taps into so many facets of complicated relationships. The need to protect her child is  life altering and she finds the strength to make the decisions that must be made. With an inquisitive nature, she allows herself to examine alternate beliefs and applications with a sense of humor and reasonable  doubt. Willing to admit to her own faults, her history is offered with no apologies and some outright laughs.  A traveler memoir author, her trip  to the west coast with her baby daughter reads like a novel.  True to the spirit of the west  the angels and aliens were her companions along the way.	2001-06-01
US	51740940	RAUZG4CZI8RO1	0312199414	841473568	Nothing to Declare: Memoirs of a Woman Traveling Alone	Books	5	20	22	N	Y	Search for affirmation	This is a beautiful memoir of Mary Morris' travels into Central America and personal growth around the 1970's. A woman in her early 30's, she has a successful writing career and traveled extensively.  Her journey into Central America is a trip embarked with a heavy heart and personal doubts.  Her past needs reckoning and her search for personal equanimity is at last confronted when she moves to San Miguel, Mexico.  Unknowingly, she rents an apartment in the poorest part of town instead of the more affluent area where many of the &quot;wealthier foreigners&quot; live.  This error in judgement serves to be her silver lining.  Skillfully brought to life are the neighbors that become her loving friends and substitute family. As she opens herself to their lives and stories, she feels compelled to face her inner demons.<br />  For many, the prosect of reading  another traveling diary may be stultifying. This is not one of those, but an original attempt to make the relationship of a woman's personal journey inside herself and her global journeys she bravely explores on her own.<br />   In her past, Mary has been physically and emotional abused by some of the men in her life.  I thing it is extremely important to note that in those years, many of the social/counseling/activist support groups were non-existant, or at the least, in their infancy.  For Mary, her travels, and those that she met in the wake of her trips, served as her counselors and support groups.<br />  There were a wide assortment of characters that she met in her travels, and her gift is to be able to write about what each of them meant to her. Many of them are truly unforgettable and the times she writes about capture the humor, strength and sorrow of their lives.  San Miguel serves as her &quot;base camp&quot; and she plans many visits to  the heart of Central America. Knowlingly, she ventures into some of the most unstable countries in the area (San Salvador, Honduras, Bolivia) and trusts her inner instincts to be her compass.  Constantly challenging herself in these tension filled areas, subjecting herself to extreme discomfort, poor traveling conditions and appalling lodging, she nevertheless is able to note the beauty of the world, but not so idealistic that she can't complain and feel total despair.  Life is NOT perfect on the road, and I respect that she does not front herself off to be in a constant state of traveler's ecstasy.	2001-05-18
US	51740940	RPI8AF8XRTEHT	1559721251	452635322	Crypt 33: The Saga of Marilyn Monroe - The Final Word	Books	5	12	14	N	N	How long will these questions go on?	On the eve of another Marilyn movie, &quot;Blonde&quot;, I pulled this book out of my library and re-read it.  The photos are amazing, and included in the book are official documentation copies that spur furthur contemplation about her death.<br />Will the questions and the responsiblitiy of her death ever be publicly accountable?  I doubt it.<br />For those still fascinated by this lady, you will enjoy this book and find the facts well researched. Look at THESE pictures and tell me she is not one of the most fascinating, captivating, intriguing women of the world. She died in her prime, and she left the most beautiful part of her in everyone's memory.<br />That is SO &quot;Marilyn&quot;, and someone took full advantage of that and of her.	2001-05-15
US	51740940	R1BRSUAXJIHLSL	0894803204	144957138	The Book of Questions	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Take this book along as a companion accoutrement!!	My daughter initially spurred me to buy this book after an experience she had with it in a college classroom assignment.  This is obviously a book that when  consulted can serve to enhance any social get together and provide some truly fun and memorable times.  I can see pulling this book out on long car trips, camping trips, intimate dinners and family gatherings.  The best part would be to discover someone's secret desires and dreams, only expressed because it was so easily presented in question form.	2001-05-15
US	51740940	R3SFGTPY6C63UP	0312155476	879493643	House Arrest	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Playing with fire in a foreign country	For a traveler to a foreign country, part of the intrigue is that you are vulnerable to the laws that do not take your nationality as a priority.  The urge to be accommodating and submissive is a response to the insecurity of not having the freedoms and protection expected in one's home country.   Some travelers are challenging, some are paranoid and some are just trusting to the point of naivete'.            For Maggie Conover, all or none of these responses may apply, at least for her initial visit to &quot;la isla&quot; in the Caribbean.  A travel writer for the magazine, Easy Rider, she meets the daughter of the island's rebel leader.  Isabel has grown up restricted and confined to the island, which is her prison, and her father as the jailer and ultimately the murderer of her two husbands.  <br />     Maggie revisits &quot;la isla&quot; several years after her initial trip.  As other readers retort her possible stupidity in going back to the island and risking what she ultimately risks, I can understand the woman who does go back.....There are no clear cut reasons except one, and that is all about Isabel and the mystery of her whereabouts.<br />     The reader will have a racing heart when you read about the authorities detaining her.  Confined to a house arrest in a hotel, she fears her situation in an escalating climax beginning with the awareness that the room and phone have been surveiled, and the hotel staff briefed as to the seriousness of her impending charges.  Of course, no one tells her what the charges may be.  She is under the charge of  a Major, who escorts her in a confusingly obsequious manner to various prison and detention centers for interogations. Unable to trust anyone, the secrets she carries are now compromising her very own freedom.  What did she do to risk her life and make herself so vulnerable to the justice of a foreign country?<br />     An engaging book that will keep you breathing fast until the very last pages.  It will make you rethink your travel plans...well, maybe!	2001-05-15
US	51740940	R2QN1MXAOIDO45	068480087X	787497119	Postcards	Books	5	41	48	N	Y	Postcards :from the edge of fiction perfection	Introduced to Annie Proulx from her book _Shipping News_, I eagerly snatched this book up with the same expectations and I was delivered of that and more.      An outstanding story of family, blood lines, history and human strength and frailty, Annie once again strikes gold.  Teased, the reader gets little glimpses of mementos, mail, postcards throughout the novel that relate in intriguing ways to the story content. Probably the biggest teaser would be the first few pages.  I challenge any lover of literature to read those pages and put the novel back on the shelf.  There is simply no way to resist this book when you have read this entry.      My analysis of a great work of literature is my intention to reread the novel again.  There are a handfull of books I know I will, as the temptation to read something fresh is always greater. This novel will never be lent out, for I will wait until it dims just the slightest in my memory, and then I will seek it out and read it again with as much anticipation as when I read it the first time.  I can't wait!!	2001-05-15
US	51740940	R1PKNH6TADA378	0425168700	890485903	Fortune's Daughter	Books	4	71	77	N	N	A different cup of tea	Major SPOILER ALERT! This was my first Alice Hoffman novel  I have read.  In reviewing her other books, it is obvious that she incorporates mystical and spiritual concepts in her writings. In this novel, _Fortune's Daughter_ the art of fortune telling through the use of tea leaves provide the inspiration for an original and sensitive story. The &#34;reading&#34; of these leaves that remain in the bottom of a cup of consumed tea allows the reader to be introduced to the characters in the book and their secrets that are so well revealed by this talented author. The fortune teller, Lila, is certainly not a  stereotypical &#34;old woman hag-like freak&#34;  that is so often portrayed in the movies.  She is a beautiful wisp of a lady in her late 40's, married and living in the hills of Hollywood, California.  Introduced long ago to the art of tea readings, she has a loyal following of clients and a fairly reliable income.  Her passion, however seems fickle, and her past secrets and haunting memories begin to affect her readings.  Everything in Lila's past that she has struggled to hide erupts when she is pressured to do a fortune telling for a distraught young girl, abandoned by her flakey, no-good boyfriend.  When Lila looks into her cup and into Rae's tragic eyes, the unbearable similarities intwine them and makes their fates dependent on each other from that moment on. ...I would like to comment on a few random  impressions that I found interesting.  One  I had was that the  &#34;fortune telling&#34; was not overdone, but appropriately utilized to ground and furthur the story line.  Another is how the author uses the land to correlate with the character's personal issues and relationships to each other.  For example, the infertile land behind Lila and her husband's house was referred to frequently throughout the book.  Ms. Hoffman revealed the land to be nearly barren, and only with the greatest of efforts were the couple able to nurture plants to life.  Tomato plantswere thin, spindly, and rarely productive. The soil was said to be as if poisoned,  leached of nutrients  and unrevivable, no doubt a comparison to Lila.  The only viable plant, a vine, (interestingly enough, a passion flower), had for so many years been neglected, it had become wildly overgrown.  Tangled into a gigantic heap of a mess, it  grew into a choking dying nuisance requiring abrupt removal.  This comparison could apply to the relationship that Rae had with her abusing boyfriend, then again, other possible correlations could be the relationship between Lila and her husband, or Lila and Rae, or indeed all four of the characters and their relationship to each other. Ms. Hoffman described some incredibly intense and emotional events.  One of these events was Lila's giving birth at age 18 after successfully hiding her pregnancy from her parents and everyone.  Alone, and abandoned by her married boyfriend, the experience was revealed  in words of delicacy and power,  seeming to be a representation of the process of labor itself. ...Rae struggles throughout the entire novel to rid herself of her abusive boyfriend, Jessup,  but she keeps seeking him out,  and their dependent dysfuntional relationship stays alive.  As the four of them converge on the hospital on the night of Rae's baby's birth, I could not help but feel let down that she ultimately was not strong enough to push Jessup away.  Rae, like the passion flower, seemed destined to emulate the vine.  The flowers are so beautiful and  fragile. The danger is to allow it to grow without restraint.	2001-05-08
US	51740940	R1ASORPDBQ6JFE	0425168700	890485903	Fortune's Daughter	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A different cup of tea	This was my first Alice Hoffman novel  I have read.  In reviewing her other books, it is obvious that she incorporates mystical and spiritual concepts in her writings. In this novel, _Fortune's Daughter_ the art of fortune telling through the use of tea leaves provide the inspiration for an original and sensitive story. The &quot;reading&quot; of these leaves that remain in the bottom of a cup of consumed tea allows the reader to be introduced to the characters in the book and their secrets that are so well revealed by this talented author.<br />The fortune teller, Lila, is certainly not a  stereotypical &quot;old woman hag-like freak&quot;  that is so often portrayed in the movies.  She is a beautiful wisp of a lady in her late 40's, married and living in the hills of Hollywood, California.  Introduced long ago to the art of tea readings, she has a loyal following of clients and a fairly reliable income.  Her passion, however seems fickle, and her past secrets and haunting memories begin to affect her readings. <br /> Everything in Lila's past that she has struggled to hide erupts when she is pressured to do a fortune telling for a distraught young girl, abandoned by her flakey, no-good boyfriend.  When Lila looks into her cup and into Rae's tragic eyes, the unbearable similarities intwine them and makes their fates dependent on each other from that moment on.<br />The plot lines are well detailed by other reviewers, so I shall not repeat the same in different words.  I would like to comment on a few random  impressions that I found interesting.  One  I had was that the  &quot;fortune telling&quot; was not overdone, but appropriately utilized to ground and furthur the story line.  Another is how the author uses the land to correlate with the character's personal issues and relationships to each other.  For example, the infertile land behind Lila and her husband's house was referred to frequently throughout the book.  Ms. Hoffman revealed the land to be nearly barren, and only with the greatest of efforts were the couple able to nurture plants to life.  Tomato plants were thin, spindly, and rarely productive. The soil was said to be as if poisoned,  leached of nutrients  and unrevivable, no doubt a comparison to Lila.<br /> The only viable plant, a vine, (interestingly enough, a passion flower), had for so many years been neglected, it had become wildly overgrown.  Tangled into a gigantic heap of a mess, it  grew into a choking dying nuisance requiring abrupt removal.  This comparison could apply to the relationship that Rae had with her abusing boyfriend, then again, other possible correlations could be the relationship between Lila and her husband, or Lila and Rae, or indeed all four of the characters and their relationship to each other.<br />Ms. Hoffman described some incredibly intense and emotional events.  One of these events was Lila's giving birth at age 18 after successfully hiding her pregnancy from her parents and everyone.  Alone, and abandoned by her married boyfriend, the experience was revealed  in words of delicacy and power,  seeming to be a representation of the process of labor itself.  <br />I am curious as to other opinions regarding the ending.  Rae struggles throughout the entire novel to rid herself of her abusive boyfriend, Jessup,  but she keeps seeking him out,  and their dependent dysfuntional relationship stays alive.  As the four of them converge on the hospital on the night of Rae's baby's birth, I could not help but feel let down that she ultimately was not strong enough to push Jessup away.  Rae, like the passion flower, seemed destined to emulate the vine.  The flowers are so beautiful and  fragile. The danger is to allow it to grow without restraint.	2001-05-08
US	51740940	R1FJVZ4FPXHA8S	0375706771	930468436	Midwives (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Legal and Medical Mind Blower	Anyone with a legal or medical background will certainly bond quickly with the theme of this story.  One need not be of that background, however, to feel the tug of what is right and what is wrong.The fact is, with medicine, there are decisions to be made in the event of emergencies, and anyone can do the next day quarterbacking of what should have happened.   It is in this context, that this novel is capable of provoking extrememly strong opinions on many issues. For that reason it demonstrates to many the incredible impact this novel has had on many fronts.	2001-04-27
US	51740940	RC56WBTRSNLXD	0345359321	486440079	Travels	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Reflection of his experiences	I would not expect a travel dialogue to be any different from an author like Michael Crichton.<br />I think it should be expected that his experiences will be interpreted differently, his voice unique to the traveling readers.  It may be that his experiences do not relate to the typical reader of traveler guides, but  this is not a usual interpretation of the same.<br />He has a voice and mind that causes reflection.  That is obvious with his work.  I found this piece as a reflection of his experiences, and as unique as you or I, should we choose to reflect on them.  All in all, they are gripping accounts, and ones that keep the pages turning.  I do not know about you, but, that is why I buy a book.	2001-04-27
US	51740940	R2Q9UCP5FU1TEA	0345424719	685444613	A Widow for One Year	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Let's face it, the truth hurts.	An intense novel is delivered to the reader with the certification of John Iring, Author.<br />Not to be disappointed, the reader must expect to read about a dysfunctional family pivoting around a tragic car accident that killed the sons of the family.  The memories of the accident can never be replaced by the birth of the girl, Ruth. She stands to be abandoned by her mother for no other reason than that the mother will not risk love to any other that may leave her.  This sad, disgustingly selfish motive resonates throughout this extrordinarily unique and destructive tale of families gone all wrong.	2001-04-27
US	51740940	R1MBHKBSEU33T4	0345359321	486440079	Travels	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Reflection of his experiences	I would not expect a travel dialogue to be any different from an author like Michael Crichton.<br />I think it should be expected that his experiences will be interpreted differently, his voice unique to the traveling readers.  It may be that his experiences do not relate to the typical reader of traveler guides, but  this is not a usual interpretation of the same.<br />He has a voice and mind that causes reflection.  That is obvious with his work.  I found this piece as a reflection of his experiences, and as unique as you or I, should we choose to reflect on them.  All in all, they are gripping accounts, and ones that keep the pages turning.  I do not know about you, but, that is why I buy a book.	2001-04-27
US	51740940	R2RPOC4G0YXY4Y	0140177361	330124455	The Red Pony (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	34	37	N	N	Brilliant affirmation of life	I read some of these reviews and could not believe how unrealistic some of these people are.  Why should every novel be a princess pretty tale?  If that is what you need, keep pretending and don't ever read some of the most poignantly beautiful reflections of what it is like to be a 10 year old boy growing up on a farm!<br />This is a sensitive, time realistic story of what it would be like to live on a farm back in the days when you had to know practical therapy for your stock animals.  These people respected their animals and knew that it was important to know emergency procedures, and knew how to do them to try and save their stock.  Sometimes it worked, sometimes, it did not.  It is this down side that focuses on Jody, the 10 year old son, that gets to own a pony who becomes ill with &quot;strangles&quot; a disease that shuts off his airway.  The stockhand pulls no stops to save his life, and Jody chooses to stay by his beloved pony's side.  The event is pivotal.  As all events that revolve around life and death, this is the basis of which the story continues to move. <br />I do not find the story to be distasteful at all. I find it to be full of life and love.  For those that can not get through the saddness of the pony dying, I feel sad that you missed some very relevant, affirming representations of the real meaning of life and love.	2001-04-19
US	51740940	R16RHOBUF4O0NH	0140177361	330124455	The Red Pony (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brilliant affirmation of life	I read some of these reviews and could not believe how unrealistic some of these people are.  Why should every novel be a princess pretty tale?  If that is what you need, keep pretending and don't ever read some of the most poignantly beautiful reflections of what it is like to be a 10 year old boy growing up on a farm!<br />This is a sensitive, time realistic story of what it would be like to live on a farm back in the days when you had to know practical therapy for your stock animals.  These people respected their animals and knew that it was important to know emergency procedures, and knew how to do them to try and save their stock.  Sometimes it worked, sometimes, it did not.  It is this down side that focuses on Jody, the 10 year old son, that gets to own a pony who becomes ill with &quot;strangles&quot; a disease that shuts off his airway.  The stockhand pulls no stops to save his life, and Jody chooses to stay by his beloved pony's side.  The event is pivotal.  As all events that revolve around life and death, this is the basis of which the story continues to move.<br />I do not find the story to be distasteful at all. I find it to be full of life and love.  For those that can not get through the saddness of the pony dying, I feel sad that you missed some very relevant, affirming representations of the real meaning of life and love.	2001-04-19
US	51740940	R22R6506P1XBHJ	0140187456	69278241	The Long Valley (Twentieth-century Classics)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Perfect collection of short stories	Recently, I have been on a John Steinbeck binge. I am not a lover of short stories, I find them too brief, like a wonderful treat taken away too soon.  However, the skill in which Mr. Steinbeck writes each short story represents a condensed novel. They are truly capable of fulfilling the promises of longer novels. Flushed and sifted, he carefully extracts his words into a version just as promising and thought provoking as a longer story.  One need not feel unsatisfied, these stories are utterly amazing, absolutely incredible and without  doubt some of the best literary work I have ever read.<br />These are beautiful stories, all taking place around Steinbeck's favorite place on earth, Monterey and Salinas Valley in California.  The stories are diverse, rich, stunning and original.  Please allow yourself the opportunity to read these stories.  You will not be disappointed, and the beauty is to feel the heart and soul of the author, John Steinbeck.	2001-04-19
US	51740940	R1GIT8LB5ULY0H	0517591626	139944941	Women Of The West (Library of the American West)	Books	5	46	46	N	N	Tribute to the 19th century Western Women	For myself, my burgeoning interest for anything related to 1850's western life was prompted by a visit to Bodie, a ghost town on the Eastern Sierras in California.  Amazingly intact, this mining town preserves life as it was back then, down to the most minute detail and one that you can visualize through windows, storefronts and streets as you walk through the town. A trip to the museum offered more incredibly intimate and thought provoking glimpses into what the people's lives were like in those days. The life they lived was very difficult as profiled by the many wonderful books and resources sold there and available all along the Eastern Sierra towns. I purchased a few books detailing the history and people of Bodie. Soon, I became fascinated by the experiences the women had.  Of the many books I have bought, I found this one, _Women of the West_ to be truly one of the best when it comes to portraying and historically presenting authentic writings and pictures of the nineteenth century &quot;pioneer&quot; women in the Western United States.<br />Gripping and personal diaries reveal their thoughts and feelings as they travel to the west in covered wagons.  Upon their arrival to their new &quot;home&quot;, the journals reflect their personal situations as they struggle to settle the land and etch out a living. Some of the women are widowed by the time they arrive out West. Some are burdened with more children, complications of pregnancy and perhaps the death of the young ones. Against staggering obstacles,  these women march on with such integrity and strength that it appears nothing less than heroic. Not given to whining and bitter complaining, their tone is of acceptance and self-reliance.  <br />The beauty of this book is in the wide assortment and  many pictures that chronicle the women, their home and life style.  The pictures are clear, large and detailed, so one can savor the peek into an 1850's home, hearth and kitchen, not to mention the lands and buisnesses they worked so hard on.<br />There is so much offered to the reader, I can only say that this book is really a treasure: true stories and pictures that bring a virtual museum into your own hands.	2001-04-13
US	51740940	R2GOFRBNXLCQ0Z	1882593197	648933669	Boondocking: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	What grandparents do for their grandbabies	The message of this story is of love for your children's children.  How tragic it is for Sylvia and Clayton when their daughter dies and they suspect their son in law behind it all.  Attempting to spare their dear grandchild, they hitch up an RV and off they go in their desperate attempt to separate their grandchild from the pursuing son-in law.<br />Eventually, after many adventures on the road in an RV trailer, they must make amends and their grandchild has grown and the questions and curiosities need to be examined.  After years of trailering and dodging the inevitable, they must make peace with the past, and look to the future together.	2001-04-12
US	51740940	RGR8TYYWVV4G8	0140187502	163297853	Sweet Thursday (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	A Glorious Conclusion	How easy it seems to come to John Steinbeck...I can picture him typing away on his old typewriter, and majically producing these rich, rich stories that have &quot;it&quot; all. The townfolk of Cannery Row continue to grow without becoming stale.  A perfect union of old characters introduced in the preceding books, _Tortilla Flat_ and _Cannery Row_ meet a new assortment of equally compelling personalities.  His talent is evident in the concise revealing of these people.  Humanity, love, and the fragile bonds that connect all sorts together makes for a rich broth that he serves up to the reader.  Nothing is left out, he is incredibly sensitive, vulnerable, and compassionate in describing his characters.  Just as well, he is hysterically funny and original.  It is quite simply, a movie in your mind when you read these 3 books.  Crisp and absolute, I can  &quot;see&quot;  everything he has written and it is one of the best movies I have ever had the pleasure to view!!<br />Steinbeck keeps the original Palace Flophouse alive, but now, sadly, it is occupied by the post war survivors.  One of the beds is a virtual memorial to one of the boys.  No  one is allowed to sit on the bed, and everything is left the way it was when he left. Especially, because he is presumed dead, they hold out all hope and respect for his return.  The &quot;boys&quot; slowly return from war, reunite and again, become the essence of Cannery Row.<br />Mack, the man in charge of the Flophouse, presides over the Palace on his street skills and hustling abilities, of which he is duly recognized and respected by all.  Most of his attention, if not to the boys, is to &quot;Doc&quot; and the constant attempts to reward and recognize Doc for all that he has done for the boys, and all the  &quot;down and outs&quot; on Cannery Row.<br /> Doc, usually the strong, wise and controlled, meets his mid-life crisis ( for loss of a better description of his angst.)  He returns from the war to his Biological Lab, which is in total disarray from the mismanagement of the person he left in charge. His return and shock in finding the conditions of his lab are the catalyst for the initiation of his self doubt and relentless introspection. A man from days before the war, he was content to collect biological specimens, preserve them, and reward himself with the pint of beer.  All in town knew of his habits, his schedule and his goals. His self doubts create a disturbing equation to his life and the Cannery Row folk feel his unease and seek resolution. He ultimately confronts his loneliness with the attention and intervention of all the inhabitants in Cannery Row. All contribute opinions, astrological forecasts and speculations. Those that hold debts of gratitude are many, for he is a man that extends himself to all in need.  Be it a man ill, he is the healer.  Be it a person in disability, he is their ability.  Not a man to be self-serving, he is their rock and their stability.  Without him, they are all vulnerable to the nightmares they each dream at night.  And, so, Doc, without any ill intention, allows all to see his infortune, his dis-ease, his vulnerability.  He expresses his fear of failure, and his desire to write a scientific paper about the behavior of octopuses. He feels how important it is to his soul that this paper is written, and those who love him understand this priority. Enter into the turmoil, is a woman named Suzy.  A young girl abused by her family into leaving her home, she steps off the bus to find a future in Monterey.  More than a few people take her under their wing, and she becomes a treasure worth fighting for.  Doc struggles with his pretensions, lust and love, all of it yet another stew to stir and dwell on.  He is stunned by everything.  He isn't acting predictably.  The town watches, consults, and agonizes. Can they help Doc?  What is wrong with Doc?  The pulse of the town beats with the need to solve the puzzle.  It seems to affect everything, yet compared to other towns, it has it's own unique difficulty.  Really, it isn't so bad, after all, it could have Pacific Grove's agony with no monarch butterflies making their annual show.<br /> Such unusual behavior is interpreted by the simple minded &quot;boys&quot; with great fear, for his well-being is inherent to them all.  His discomfort is their discomfort.  His joy, their joy. If he is joyless, or at a loss, so are they.  What comes of this is their responsibility.  They must change the world to accomodate the need for equanimity.  They feel the ultimate need to produce this for their beloved friend, Doc.  In this need, the story produces the joys and sorrows so perfectly and elegantly delivered by John Steinbeck.mpared to other towns, it has it's own unique difficulty.   Really, it isn't so bad, after all, it could have Pacific Grove's agony with no monarch butterflies making their annual show.  <br /> Such unusual behavior is interpreted by the simple minded &quot;boys&quot; with great fear, for his well-being is inherent to them all.  His discomfort is their discomfort.  His joy, their joy. If he is joyless, or at a loss, so are they.  What comes of this is their responsibility.  They must change the world to accomodate the need for equanimity.  They feel the ultimate need to produce this for their beloved friend, Doc.  In this need, the story produces the joys and sorrows so perfectly and elegantly delivered by John Steinbeck.	2001-04-12
US	51740940	R2U6BB3KLEQ3CA	0140177388	713608567	Cannery Row	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Don't ask the &quot;boys&quot; to do you any favors!!	What a perfect follow up to _Tortilla Flat_!<br />While not borrowing all the characters from Tortilla Flat, we are obviously in the right place, Monterey.  The times are the same, and they are not easy.  People are poor, and everyone does what they must to get by.  If that means they rent abandoned boilers and pipes as homes, so be it. Every opportunity is seized for the reward it may provide the finder.  A lost rooster is someone's dinner, and someone else's truck, their ride. The shocking reality is that for most, a scam is a scam, and in the long run, all is usually forgiven by the victim.  Opportunity is their credit card, and tomorrow's guilt, the interest due.<br /> The beauty of it is that for most of them, this was enough. Yes, they could see some had it better, but dwelling on this was not a pastime done. And for those women living in pipes and abandoned boilers it was a fact that now and then they longed for lace curtains, even though they had no windows.  This could spark a temporary crying jag, and many walking by the boiler hut could hear them sobbing, causing an echo like wail. A particularly sensitive or desperate husband may soothe her with thrift store curtain rods, but be unable to figure out a way to attach them on the metal walls.  These suggestions may not rectify the problem, but it does well to allude to it's solution. In these techniques, their strength was evident by getting through hard times and staying alert to any situation that can be manipulated, or favor that can be called in.<br />Presenting, Cannery Row.  On the main street, we have Lee Chong's grocery store open for buisness, and if you don't abuse the credit too much, he will allow you a tab.  A sharp man who stations himself in front of the Booze Booth, he will maintain a military position there all day, careful to protect the expensive and coveted alcoholic beverages.  Ever sharp to those trying to tempt him from his station, he is alert to those trying to distract him away from the shelves and bargain their way into his favor for a cheap bottle of booze they think he would never miss.<br />Across the street is the popular bordello, run by Dora Flood.  She runs a tight, efficient buisness.  Her ladies are well fed and cared for and never thrown into the streets because they get a little long in the tooth.  While targeted at least once a year by the proper ladie's groups, she never the less hangs on by being the top charity donor in town, otherwise known as political and civic blackmail.<br />I can not conclude this review without mention of the beloved, Doc.  He is a marine biologist, often confused on Cannery Row as a full fledged doctor.  Therefore, being a kindly man, he is sought out by anyone for any cause that remotely relates to a living organism and illness, birth, death or advice. Not a man that indulges in luxury, he appreciates beer, food and music. He has done many favors for these people and asks nothing in return.  For a group of local men, they decide to thank him and deliver unto him a party that will be the talk of the town.<br />The skill is which these characters construct this party is pure Steinbeck poety and hilarity.  I will not spoil one word of it's majic. Do yourself the favor to find out all about it!	2001-04-01
US	51740940	R225B3E87QB8QF	0425165728	193979078	The Starlite Drive-In	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	The book cover is the first lure; keep going	This is one of the most captivating book covers I have seen in a long time! It did what it is intended to do - attract the reader to be so intrigued that a purchase is inevitable. <br />In fact, the cover neatly suggests the story.  In the back ground is an obvious 1950's era Elvis on a drive-in screen.  The drive-in, especially, beckons those born of that time to recall the inevitable memories. Popcorn, kids in pajamas bouncing around in the car until hopefully, they fall asleep after the introductory cartoon.  Or, if the teenage years are provoked, those intense front or back seat loves are remembered. Not to mention, each one of &quot;us&quot; remembers someone at some time, yanking the speaker away from the post in a forgetful moment accompanied by lots of profanity by the perpetrator and owner, if caught. It is clear though, that you do not have to be from that time period to be caught by the book cover.  It attracts all ages.<br />But, as I said, the cover preludes the story.  There, in front of the screen, is a 1950's home implying the connection between buisness and home.  There, in the doorway, with the light illuminating behind a lovely mother figure, is a woman, partially leaning out of the home to a (probably) warm, summer evening as she supervises an adolescent girl sitting on the stoop.  What is furthur obvious, is the grip she has on the door jam, and the reluctance in her posture to leave the security of the home, yet obvious in her body language the temptation to step out into the night.<br />And so, before you even open the book and read the first page, this lovely, surprisingly fresh and original, sophisticated love and mystery story begins.	2001-03-28
US	51740940	RGEP331WRCVBN	0425165728	193979078	The Starlite Drive-In	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	The book cover is the first lure; keep going	This is one of the most captivating book covers I have seen in a long time! It did what it is intended to do - attract the reader to be so intrigued that a purchase is inevitable. <br />In fact, the cover neatly suggests the story.  In the back ground is an obvious 1950's era Elvis on a drive-in screen.  The drive-in, especially, beckons those born of that time to recall the inevitable memories. Popcorn, kids in pajamas bouncing around in the car until hopefully, they fall asleep after the introductory cartoon.  Or, if the teenage years are provoked, those intense front or back seat loves are remembered. Not to mention, each one of &quot;us&quot; remembers someone at some time, yanking the speaker away from the post in a forgetful moment accompanied by lots of profanity by the perpetrator and owner, if caught. It is clear though, that you do not have to be from that time period to be caught by the book cover.  It attracts all ages.<br />But, as I said, the cover preludes the story.  There, in front of the screen, is a 1950's home implying the connection between buisness and home.  There, in the doorway, with the light illuminating behind a lovely mother figure, is a woman, partially leaning out of the home to a (probably) warm, summer evening as she supervises an adolescent girl sitting on the stoop.  What is furthur obvious, is the grip she has on the door jam, and the reluctance in her posture to leave the security of the home, yet obvious in her body language the temptation to step out into the night.<br />And so, before you even open the book and read the first page, this lovely, surprisingly fresh and original, sophisticated love and mystery story begins.	2001-03-28
US	51740940	R3SCZB9QQT7KWV	1885983085	177889533	Joan of Arc: In her own words	Books	4	57	57	N	N	May tempt you to want to know more about her	I was introduced to this brief book because of my 13 year old daughter's biography assignment.  The book was abstracted and translated from French into English and consists only of &quot;her own words&quot; in the form of letters and documents which have accumulated over the years and been studied by scholars.<br />While not a book I could say would bring a complete understanding of Joan's life, it was intriguing to read her own interpretation of the events in her life.  A little deep towards the end, especially for a young reader, it never the less did prove to be provoking and we enthusiastically probed other mediums to find more background information. <br />The story is so full of emotion and controversy it is sure to prompt contemplation and conversation.  From my experience, it was worth the read to listen to my 13 year old reflect on what it would be like to be living in Joan's time and if you were Joan.  All in all, both of us had a positive experience from the book.	2001-03-26
US	51740940	RIIREEYK9C83Z	0375703063	844780162	A Virtuous Woman (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Sometimes short books should be read twice	There may be a tendency for people to breeze through short novels, (simply because they can), and focus on the quick ending rather than the more subtle prizes the story offers. I found myself doing this more than once, and offer this as a reason why many readers did not rate the book higher.  Also, as I have noted by the discussions of some reviewers and agree with, sad books tend to be panned more than most others.<br />In regards to _A Virtuous Woman_, I found the title be absolutely correct and the story charming, tender and insightful. It is not riveting and it is not going to stop your heart from beating due to the suspense.  Instead, it is an intimate portrayal of a disadvantaged woman in the south and how she copes  with a subtle dignity that defines her character. In simpler terms, it is realistic, appropriate and believable. In regards to dismissing the book because it is sad, I find this to not only be untrue, but a great misrepresentation of the story content.<br />Try reading it again!	2001-03-26
US	51740940	R12D6MCJ72FEPH	0679446788	318679635	National Audubon Society Field Guide to California	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Most popular book in the house	If this book is not shoved in a back pack on a trip, taken to school, carted along on the front seat of any day trip in the car, we generally try to just keep keep track of it, because if we can't locate it when we need it, it is a sure bet there will be an uproar until it is found. This is a resource book  so commonly utilized in this house of kids and out doors lovers alike, it generally never seems to leave the counter in the kitchen.  There it is, available to all for school projects, night star gazing verification and an instant attraction for anyone standing around waiting for dinner.<br />Truly, a book that has been consulted so frequently for so many reasons, that it has replaced more cumbersome references. The reference has beautiful illustrations and offers so much more than a typical field guide book.  This is a book that will be relished by California outdoor lovers, and if you like the indoors more, this is the book that will definitely beckon you out of your lazy boy chair to go wandering around this incredible play ground we call California.	2001-03-26
US	51740940	RBPDABYSW584U	0140042407	206112752	Tortilla Flat	Books	5	36	36	N	Y	Wine, women, song and tears	I highly recommended this short novel but I would not do so for everyone.  First of all, you must appreciate the novel being written in 1935 and the language spoken by the characters reflect that time period, rightly so.  It only takes a short while to adapt and I found the story moving along at a nice pace as the personalities began to assume colorful portrayals.<br />Steinbeck presents a group of men, or paisanos living in Monterey, California after the first World War.  These are poor men, not especially motivated to work for a living and have a thirsty, never ending longing for wine.  They circle around Danny, the fortunate one in the group, who inherited 2 small houses from his grandfather. Having no steady job, it makes sense to him to &quot;rent&quot; to his buddies.  His buddies don't have jobs or revenue, either, so the compensation that takes place is in the form of companionship and the collective sharing of all foods begged from the back doors of groceries and restaurants. The hawking of whatever goods they come upon that can be bartered for the prized gallon of wine serves to be their highest priority.  While seemingly desperate and pathetic, these men go to no end to rationalize their predicaments, twist truths and events to be self-serving and ultimately rewarding their endeavors by securing enough wine to satisfy them all.  This can be quite a challenge, and the lengths they go to to fulfill their thirsty desires are hilarious.  That the reader finds love and goodness in these fellows is reflected by the skill of John Steinbeck's writing.<br />  The book is a quick read and it was not long before I became  fond and wiped away a few tears of sorrow and joy for each of them and  the circumstances these men find themselves. The practise of  their Catholic religion is random; they use it when they need it, commit small crimes in the name of it and dismiss the many restrictive &quot;Thou shall not's&quot; when seized in the throes of passion or inebriation. A greater sense of loyalty knits these men to each other.  While women acquaintances come and go, the paisanos rely on each other and faithfully commit to one another. In spite of the inevitable drunken fights and arguments, the following morning beckons another day. All the sins of the previous day are (literally) forgotten and forgiven.  In the dawn of the new day anything is possible, and the adventures these men get themselves into is pure comic entertainment.	2001-03-20
US	51740940	RIBMSN9I813E2	0939837366	551579869	Green Flash	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Fast-paced maritime mystery delivers	This fast paced maritime thriller will not disappoint those that love a good sail-tale and &quot;who done it.&quot;  Straight away you are lured into the many twists and turns the story takes.  At the center is a very likeable couple, fortunate to be able to live the life they love on their sail boat.  While cruising the beautiful Mexican coastal waters they discover the decomposing body of a missing woman. Horrified,  they tie her up along side the boat and then discover a video camera still velcoed to her arm. Securing the camera on deck they have now placed themselves in the forefront of the case and the story zooms off wildly, while you frantically turn those pages as fast as you can to keep up.  The first few chapters are shockers, (deomposing body parts, shark attacks, graphic drowning scenarios ) and the reader will surely discover their innate fears  stimulated.<br /> In contrast, you will still be able to feel a part of the sailing life style; socializing on deck and in town, the feel of the ship cutting through the water and the lull of the boat as they fall asleep at night. While not a life style suitable for everyone, the rewards for those taken by it are captivating and I personally enjoy discovering all the details. I would not mind meeting this likeable couple again, in say, Costa Rica?	2001-03-18
US	51740940	R2YG34C4SNUHT2	0939837366	551579869	Green Flash	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Fast-paced maritime mystery delivers	This fast paced maritime thriller will not disappoint those that love a good sail-tale and &quot;who done it.&quot;  Straight away you are lured into the many twists and turns the story takes.  At the center is a very likeable couple, fortunate to be able to live the life they love on their sail boat.  While cruising the beautiful Mexican coastal waters they discover the decomposing body of a missing woman. Horrified,  they tie her up along side the boat and then discover a video camera still velcoed to her arm. Securing the camera on deck they have now placed themselves in the forefront of the case and the story zooms off wildly, while you frantically turn those pages as fast as you can to keep up.  The first few chapters are shockers, (deomposing body parts, shark attacks, graphic drowning scenarios ) and the reader will surely discover their innate fears  stimulated.<br /> In contrast, you will still be able to feel a part of the sailing life style; socializing on deck and in town, the feel of the ship cutting through the water and the lull of the boat as they fall asleep at night. While not a life style suitable for everyone, the rewards for those taken by it are captivating and I personally enjoy discovering all the details. I would not mind meeting this likeable couple again, in say, Costa Rica?	2001-03-18
US	51740940	RXGODQETYWURP	0312187106	698240855	The Diary of Mattie Spenser: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Perfect &quot;Covered Wagon&quot; Story!!!!	Sometimes your lucky day strikes and you come upon a novel that meets all your favorite topics and  interests.  This book was recommended to me by another Amazon.com reviewer that understood my passion for this era and took advantage of what this site has to offer to get in touch with me.  <br />Ever since my mother passed along _Jubilee Trail_ by Gwen Bristow, I have been fascinated by the 1850's and the journey and homesteading of the western lands.  While the stories of many books I have read were well done, I still wished to learn more of the everyday issues and how they managed to make do in such  difficult settings. It is very evident that the author, Sandra Dallas, researched her work, for you will be delighted to learn specifics of how these men and women lived, loved, made their home and raised their children.<br />It is a difficult time, the end of the civil war has taken it's toll on the north and south.  Men are looking to making a livelihood and forget the horrors of the war. The story centers around Mattie, a young woman who marries Luke and moves to Colorado.  There, Luke challenges the land hoping to farm, and Mattie works hard to make a home in their sod house.  She becomes pregnant immediately and must deliver her first child in the company of men.  Mattie and Luke's marriage is stable, but Luke has some secrets and over the years Mattie discovers them.  Other men see the beauty and strength in Mattie, for she is a fine lady and well respected.  She easily fits in the group of men, as they discuss the issues of farming, indian revolts and homesteading.  It is a very  difficult life as the indians are a constant threat, alternating the kidnapping of women and children with outright murdur. Food and provisions are scarce and the risks of disease are a constant fear. Their days are long and the work is hard.  There are few luxuries.  A long forgotten piece of chocolate fallen into the corner of their traveling trunk serves as a treat to be scavenged and eaten. The reader is astonished at the strength these people had to have to survive in such stark and barren land. You will be pleased with the details and even more so with the plot of the story.  Travel to the big city, Denver City and learn what it was like to stay in the hotel and explore the city.  It is a wonderful book and I hated to come to the last page.  You will, too.	2001-03-16
US	51740940	R1OF0P8UNBSQR5	096835470X	542129556	No Shoes Allowed	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Wish I was there!!	This is a charming accounting of Captain de Groot's chartering years in the Caribbean.  He not only discusses the ins and outs of the buisness, but gives the reader appreciation for the difficulties of networking with each island governed separatedly.  The Captain clearly has a gift with people as he is exceptional with interfacing with all kinds of people and in all kinds of situations.	2001-03-16
US	51740940	R3F0USC380HFKS	0380719185	655450573	Princess: A True Story of Life Behind the Veil in Saudi Arabia	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Jewels, clothes and wealth not worth this sacrifice	It is appalling that in this day of age, women are suffering such extreme oppression in Saudi Arabia.  Women are treated as objects, yes, their men, if wealthy lavish jewels and clothes on them, but, their sacrifices are great.  They have no freedom, not even in their own home.  A female child born to a couple is an unfortunate event, at times, the infant is murdured because she was not born male.  The circumstances in this country are shocking and this book shocks you into awareness.	2001-03-16
US	51740940	RT1WTEAJJGKMC	0312187106	698240855	The Diary of Mattie Spenser: A Novel	Books	5	57	58	N	N	Perfect &quot;Covered Wagon&quot; Story!!!!	Sometimes your lucky day strikes and you come upon a novel that meets all your favorite topics and  interests.  This book was recommended to me by another Amazon.com reviewer that understood my passion for this era and took advantage of what this site has to offer to get in touch with me.  <br />Ever since my mother passed along _Jubilee Trail_ by Gwen Bristow, I have been fascinated by the 1850's and the journey and homesteading of the western lands.  While the stories of many books I have read were well done, I still wished to learn more of the everyday issues and how they managed to make do in such  difficult settings. It is very evident that the author, Sandra Dallas, researched her work, for you will be delighted to learn specifics of how these men and women lived, loved, made their home and raised their children.<br />It is a difficult time, the end of the civil war has taken it's toll on the north and south.  Men are looking to making a livelihood and forget the horrors of the war. The story centers around Mattie, a young woman who marries Luke and moves to Colorado.  There, Luke challenges the land hoping to farm, and Mattie works hard to make a home in their sod house.  She becomes pregnant immediately and must deliver her first child in the company of men.  Mattie and Luke's marriage is stable, but Luke has some secrets and over the years Mattie discovers them.  Other men see the beauty and strength in Mattie, for she is a fine lady and well respected.  She easily fits in the group of men, as they discuss the issues of farming, indian revolts and homesteading.  It is a very  difficult life as the indians are a constant threat, alternating the kidnapping of women and children with outright murdur. Food and provisions are scarce and the risks of disease are a constant fear. Their days are long and the work is hard.  There are few luxuries.  A long forgotten piece of chocolate fallen into the corner of their traveling trunk serves as a treat to be scavenged and eaten. The reader is astonished at the strength these people had to have to survive in such stark and barren land. You will be pleased with the details and even more so with the plot of the story.  Travel to the big city, Denver City and learn what it was like to stay in the hotel and explore the city.  It is a wonderful book and I hated to come to the last page.  You will, too.	2001-03-16
US	51740940	RS6CJYQK7CP48	0965801403	262524971	Never Come Down	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	A look back in time	Michelle Black pens a sturdy novel worth acknowledgement from those that adore the years of the gold rush.  I am one of those people infatuated by anything that brings those early days of gold rush fever to life.  This story takes place in the high hills of Colorado, called Leap Year.  In separate stories, the old days are revealed through letters written by Darcy Close's great aunt, Grady. Aunt Grady has died, but in a surprise gesture, willed ownership of the entire (ghost) town of Leap Year to Darcy.  When Darcy explores the historic old home on her first visit, she becomes aware that the place has been ransacked in the aftermath of her aunt's death.  An intriguing secret makes itself known in the letters Grady has written to Darcy, unfortunately, many pages are lost and tangled in the chaos left behind by the persons responsible for breaking into the home. Darcy begins to question alot of the events that occurred long, long ago, and the circumstances of her aunt's death in the very home she is in.<br />     Therefore, two stories are weaved together.  The lust for knowledge of the days long ago are satisfied.  Wonderfully described are the harsh, freezing Colorado winters, and the methods of survival by these tough minded, original folk that literally make their own rules in the high elevations of Colorado. Darcy's city ways begin to take a backseat to the prospects of a new love interest and lifestyle.	2001-03-11
US	51740940	R8DL5H4AC61I0	1560448172	981834654	Hiking with Dogs: Becoming a Wilderness-Wise Dog Owner (Falcon's How-to Series)	Books	4	15	19	N	Y	Not just &quot;a walk in the park&quot;	I think, above all, one thing that dog owners must admit to themselves is that you do not know it all.  Just because a dog walks and comes when called does not grant the owner license to assume they can take their animal out into any outdoor environment and have the dog respond as the owner desires.  Not only is this foolish, it can be life threatening.<br />In a concise formant, the reader will be referenced to recommendations that apply to not only trail, hiking, and wildlife encounters, but basically informative guidelines in reference to the raising and bonding of your dog.  For any owner that values the out of doors, his dog must be experienced in this type of environment for his own safety and well being.  Anything offered less to your dog is a serious lapse of responsibility by the owner.  You can never assume your dog knows how to respond and it is up to you to encourage correct responses.  This handy book offers instruction and reference for opening up an incredibly wonderful experience in the outdoors safely, accompanied by our truest best friend, our dog.	2001-03-11
US	51740940	R3BSP75J9R5RY4	0965801403	262524971	Never Come Down	Books	3	0	1	N	Y	A look back in time	Michelle Black pens a sturdy novel worth acknowledgement from those that adore the years of the gold rush.  I am one of those people infatuated by anything that brings those early days of gold rush fever to life.  This story takes place in the high hills of Colorado, called Leap Year.  In separate stories, the old days are revealed through letters written by Darcy Close's great aunt, Grady. Aunt Grady has died, but in a surprise gesture, willed ownership of the entire (ghost) town of Leap Year to Darcy.  When Darcy explores the historic old home on her first visit, she becomes aware that the place has been ransacked in the aftermath of her aunt's death.  An intriguing secret makes itself known in the letters Grady has written to Darcy, unfortunately, many pages are lost and tangled in the chaos left behind by the persons responsible for breaking into the home. Darcy begins to question alot of the events that occurred long, long ago, and the circumstances of her aunt's death in the very home she is in.<br />     Therefore, two stories are weaved together.  The lust for knowledge of the days long ago are satisfied.  Wonderfully described are the harsh, freezing Colorado winters, and the methods of survival by these tough minded, original folk that literally make their own rules in the high elevations of Colorado. In contrast, Darcy's city ways begin to take a backseat as the prospects of a new love interest, western lifestyle and unique personalities reveal new possibilities for her. She finds herself becoming comfortable in the small town, yet there is danger in Darcy being in Leap Year.	2001-03-11
US	51740940	R1O3NO3FXKFV1Q	0142000205	497257633	Icy Sparks (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	22	25	N	Y	Ignorance is not bliss for these townsfolk	This is a brilliant novel, even more so when coupled with the awareness that this is the author's first.  What an accomplishment. The book centers around Icy Sparks, age 10, orphaned and afflicted by  &quot;fits&quot;,  as Tourett's was known back then in  1950.   She is tormented by her classmates,  and suffers the consequences of her tics; throwing her head back, assuming strange posturing and yelling profanities.  The urge to do these tics becomes so powerful that she runs to her grandmother's and grandfather's cellar to turn them loose.  The burden is great, but not as large as the ignorance of the town folk as they shun this charming, sensitive child. The story line centers on Icy and the few people who support and love her.  It is this strength which allows Icy to tackle the difficulties that confront her.	2001-03-09
US	51740940	R26MF1RSELQXIP	0395925010	779462827	The Jump-Off Creek	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Incredible and artistically portrayed	An incredibly poignant novel that reads and feels as sharp and clear as a freezing cold running stream.<br />The author writes crisply, economically and precisely to reflect the times and circumstances of the lifestyle of Lydia Sanderson.  Lydia is widowed and decides to purchase what remains of a forsaken homestead in the Blue Mountains.  The challenges that she must face up to are great, being a woman, even greater, still.  The work she must do is brutal, the weather a force to break men's souls, the physical labor more demanding than anything she knows.  Yet she accepts this completely.<br />In brilliant detail the author portrays how this woman lived alone and prospered. It is a fascinating accounting of her lifestyle; the items she has in her possession, what she eats and how she transports herself and her animals.  All of this is told conservatively as her journal recounts the challenges that unfold before her.<br />In contrast to her personal life, the reader is introduced to the folk that live nearest to her.  These are strong and beautiful characters, tough and tender, strong and bending. In very difficult times, they came together and helped each other.  Their spirit is reflected through the accounting of Lydia's story.	2001-03-08
US	51740940	R358SR5H4YPWGK	0914875272	554873692	Edge of Heaven	Books	3	6	7	N	Y	A bit simplistic for adult readers	I was encouraged to read this novel by the author, Eva McCall herself.  She took the time to email me and suggest I may enjoy her novel based on some of the reviews I have written.  I immediately purchased the book, and looked forward to the story.<br />The story is based on her family history, revolving around Lucy, her real grandmother.  Lucy is literally traded by her own father to an older man with 13 kids to be their substitute mother.  While the reasoning of the exchange becomes clear at the very end of the story, the content of the story focuses mainly on how Lucy had to cope with all the step children and their acceptance of her as their new ma, as their real mother had died giving childbirth.<br />This is a first novel.  It is somewhat simplistic and contrived in the plot and conversation.  I believe  this book would do well to be targeted to a more Young Adult reader than an older population. However, if you are interested in what life was like back in those difficult days, you will be pleased with her details of daily living as that is the strength in which the book lies.	2001-03-07
US	51740940	R2KN93JJO7ACXF	0871137461	827643265	By the Shore	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Be brave enough to be 12 years old again.	I think it is important to understand that this book emotes a twelve year old girl's thoughts, feelings, hopes, dreams, fears and disappointments.  She has a preoccupied young mom, a brother 7 years younger than her, and an absent, mysterious father that has done little to maintain a relationship. She lives in a barely viable bed and breakfast inn that her mom runs, and is trying to fit in with the cool kids at school, knowing that she is worlds apart from their established cliques.<br />  The story is not an edge of your seat drama and it was not meant to be.  If you are not intrigued by exploring a young person's life, this book is not for you and you will find it unsuitable.  But, if you can allow yourself to visit that young soul we all have inside ourselves, and recall when these events triggered all sorts of angst, you will appreciate the tone and cadence of this book.<br />  Some of the reviewers were quite annoyed with the book, and I feel they may have had other expectations.  That is why I feel it important to know the story pivots from this young girls spirit, without question it was carried out brilliantly.  What touches me the most of this book, is that the author was so true to her young heroine, May.  Where adult and worldly prose could have been injected on occasion, the author held back and maintained perspective.	2001-02-18
US	51740940	R362FOYL96CYVR	0060922532	767963707	Pigs in Heaven	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A rush to the finish; abuse issues ignored	I read _The Bean Trees_ prior to this novel and enjoyed it very much.  I looked forward to the follow up and basically I must admit I was entertained well enough to suggest this novel as a good read.  However, I did feel the same as many of the other reviewers when they expressed that the ending was abrupt and the story contrived.<br />It was not difficult to relate to the mother and her frantic attempt to hide the child from authorities in fear that the girl would be taken from her. However, I  could not get beyond the fact that the adoption was basically illegal, and surely ramifications would have developed through the federal government. Going from there, the other complex issues involving the Cherokee Nation and  child abuse were never explored.  I find it highly unlikely that the (sexual/physical/neglect) abuse of the baby would not have been followed up with a formal investigation. This omission disturbs me the most.<br />I felt that there was a great story developing in the first half of the book, and I really wish the author could have continued with that momentum.  The ending felt so rushed and I feel the author missed a unique opportunity to expand on child abuse in a more profound and educational way.  Still, I did enjoy the read, and I hope it does spark the reader's awareness of how serious the Cherokee Nation, and child abuse concerns are.	2001-02-03
US	51740940	R2RRBAQ2MJSNFY	0060922532	767963707	Pigs in Heaven	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A rush to the finish; abuse issues ignored	I read _The Bean Trees_ prior to this novel and enjoyed it very much.  I looked forward to the follow up and basically I must admit I was entertained well enough to suggest this novel as a good read.  However, I did feel the same as many of the other reviewers when they expressed that the ending was abrupt and the story contrived.<br />It was not difficult to relate to the mother and her frantic attempt to hide the child from authorities in fear that the girl would be taken from her. However, I  could not get beyond the fact that the adoption was basically illegal, and surely ramifications would have developed through the federal government. Going from there, the other complex issues involving the Cherokee Nation and  child abuse were never explored.  I find it highly unlikely that the (sexual/physical/neglect) abuse of the baby would not have been followed up with a formal investigation. This omission disturbs me the most.<br />I felt that there was a great story developing in the first half of the book, and I really wish the author could have continued with that momentum.  The ending felt so rushed and I feel the author missed a unique opportunity to expand on child abuse in a more profound and educational way.  Still, I did enjoy the read, and I hope it does spark the reader's awareness of how serious the Cherokee Nation, and child abuse concerns are.	2001-02-03
US	51740940	R2QFHO6UM24PY7	0060915544	842706595	The Bean Trees	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Taken by the book cover	Being one that loves gardening, I must admit, that the cover first caught my eye.  There, at the bottom, peeking shyly from the rows of beans is a small child with wide eyes.  How can these two aspects come together to make sense of this title??<br />I suppose that is not why most people want to buy books and read them, but for me I felt motivated to solve the puzzle of the lost looking wide eyed black haired youngster.<br />Right away, I was intrigued by &quot;Missy&quot;, from Kentucky.  She has by no means had an easy life, but she has had a mom who loved her (forget about the dad) and knew enough to look around her in high school to see all her girl friends having unexpected pregnancies, and vowed to herself that she would get out of town with her uterus non-gravid.  A sad goal, but a goal non-the-less, and with the help of a beaten up barely drive-able car she makes her escape to somewhere else, or rather to as far as the car can make it without breaking down.  That in, and of itself, seemed like a novel worth checking out.  I appreciated the humor and the spirit of this young girl.  She kissed her Mama goodbye, (after her Mama made her demonstrate how to change tires--which by the way is her number one fear of all time.  You see, she saw a guy get blown up and away after trying to change a truck tire, and that vision never left her.)  Anyway, off she goes to the next town, oh, and she decides to rename herself too.  Depending on the town she breaks down in.<br />Within no time, she ends up in an out of the way town where she goes into a down and out bar type cafe, well, bar.  Hoping to get something to eat, or coffee, she looks around and sees a woman huddled in a back dark booth with a blanket around her.  The place is dark and mysterious, she checks out some postcards and learns she is near or on an Indian Reservation.  Leaving the bar, she gets into the car and is confronted by the woman sitting in the bar.  What she takes out of the blanket and plops downon the passenger seat will change her life forever.  The woman begs her to take the toddler.  The woman looks haggard, the situation in bigarre, this has to be a joke, but suddenly, the woman spins away, the lights are turned off, the two trucks fly out of the parking lot, and she is staring into the helpless eyes of a physically, sexually and mentally abused baby.<br />Oh, what to do.  Well, what would you do?  I don't know what I would do, but I can tell you that it was pretty interesting to see what newly named Taylor (alias Missy) did.  She is spunky, idealistic, naive.  But, you have to give her credit.  She's got alot of heart, and the people she meets in the following town make it bloom just like the garden she begins to work in behind, you didn't guess it, her next job, in a tire store.<br />Enjoy, I did.  Oh, and there is a follow up book, called Pigs in Heaven, which I just got and will read next!	2001-01-11
US	51740940	R3DKD23S8N5BKZ	0140263616	986477838	Monkey Bridge	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	A gifted writer portrays Viet Nam like no other	The novel is beautiful and deeply sensitive.  Two stories of a mother and daughter Vietnamese immigrants are revealed in a somewht challenging read.  It took a while to feel the cadence of her methodology, but the book on the whole was worth the moderate effort it may be to truly appreciate her work.<br />What I found lovely is to hear about the real lives that the Vietnamese had before, during and after the war.  Lan Cao offers to the reader a real sense of being in her country and living the lives of the poor and the rich.  While the plot developes, she very creatively allows the reader to really get a taste of the food, the lifestyle, their celebrations and their rituals of their faith.  The daughter tells her story as a youngster sent away from Viet Nam prior to the capitol city of their residence falling to the enemy.  The pain she must have felt leaving her mother and her (supposed) beloved relatives was wretching.  Her mother barely gets out of the country, but, her father, the daughter's beloved grandfather is somehow lost in the chaos and left behind.  For this, the granddaughter agonizes and searches ways to locate him.  Her mother on the other hand, seems to be having more difficulty coping with being in the new country, and as the granddaughter presses her for more follow up on grandfather, it somehow escaltes the mother's anxiety.  Her depression and questionable sanity are at risk, but while at risk, she endeavors to journal all the truths and lies of her incredible life and the lives of her family and landowners.  The ending is unexpected and shocking.<br />This is definitely a novel with such beautiful, original and rich construction that one could reread it and be sure to find new insights.   Don't lend this one out, you will want to read it again and will not want to lose it.	2001-01-11
US	51740940	RGCQQRIAAXNH5	0553280570	952143633	Lives of John Lennon, The	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Provocative to say the least, Disturbing overall	Occasionally, I have read a novel powerful or so contraversial that I had to set it aside, like a type of reader's &quot;Time out&quot;.<br />This was such a book.  Never had I read of a life so bizarre, a life so conflicted and tormented from a man so very talented.  Not to mention the unfortunate early family life, one can only wonder how any person could cope with all the chaos in John Lennon's life.  He marries a woman (Yoko) who, according to this novel is as mentally afflicted with drug and adjustment as he is.<br />From a page turner review, this rates high.  You want to read just what can happen next, and relish in the life of someone so unreal.  You feel awkward, as I love this man, for his talent and his music, but I realize this is just a speculative book and certainly no absolute.<br />It is a provocative page turner, but be prepared to see some extremely disturbing events and recreations.  It may just make you want to put the book down for a while.	2001-01-11
US	51740940	RHRJS559CZUQ3	0553280570	952143633	Lives of John Lennon, The	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Provocative to say the least, Disturbing overall	Occasionally, I have red a novel powerful or so contraversal that I had to set it aside, like a type of reader's &quot;Time out&quot;.<br />This was such a book.  Never had a read of a life so bizarre, a life so conflicted and tormented from a man so very talented.  Not to mention the unfortunate early family life, one can only wonder how any person could cope with all the chaos in John Lennon's life.  He marries a woman (Yoko) who, according to this novel is as mentally afflicted with drug and adjustment as he is.<br />From a page turner review, this rates high.  You want to read just what can happen next, and relish in the life of someone so unreal.  You feel awkward, as I love this man, for his talent and his music, but I realize this is just a speculative book and certainly no absolute.<br />It is a provocative page turner, but be prepared to see some extremely disturbing events and recreations.  It may just make you want to put the book down for a while.	2001-01-11
US	51740940	R3GEQ9PACH278Q	1580050409	348727340	Desert Sojourn: A Woman's Forty Days and Nights Alone (Adventura Books)	Books	2	27	32	N	Y	Ill prepared, or self destructive?	This book has left me with more questions of which I find few answers.  First of all, I will and always will admire anyone brave and courageous enough to follow their hearts and write about it.  The courage to write and confront what you have actually done is often times more difficult than the act itself. I believe with all my heart that  Ms. Holmes-Binney deserves commendation for putting into words the fears and anxieties of her soul.<br />My concerns with her actions are relatively basic.  First of all, she seems to come from a family experienced with the outdoors.  While they pride themselves with &quot;not cheating&quot; when camping, I can not understand how in the world she planned this 40 day episode into the cold desert with such ill preparation.  Did she deliberately choose NOT to take adequate clothing, specifically, jacket and footwear? ( I have been on a fair amount of camping trips, and I know those two items would be highly important on my list of items to have.)  Instead of taking appropriate weather gear, she decides a &quot;leather jacket&quot; and some thrifty store salvation army type cowboy boots should see her through the endeavor.  I couldn't believe how naive she seemed, or was it self-destructive?  You decide.<br />Of course, with in the first few days, the inadequacy of all her chosen items seem to rear their ugly heads and it is literally her life that is at risk.  An untimely snowstorm moves in on her very first few days.  She is barely set up in her camp, her flimsy tent is flying apart and everything is soaking wet from the rainstorm that preceeded the freezing weather.  Her sleeping bags are soaking wet, and she has fallen apart mentally and physically. Her only salvation is that she hopes the ranger and his wife will not leave her out there to die. <br />It astounds me that she risked all this and spent so little time PLANNING for this adventure.  She never explains her motives for ill planning, either.  It seems to be just an oversight, but any educated person familiar with the wilderness knows you must plan and prepare for any time in the wild.  I just can not understand why she did this as she is not an ignorant person.  <br />She plans to find her spiritual self in 40 days and nights in the desert. She elects to conduct this spiritual journey solo, but thankfully a few people come to her aid and literally save her life by giving her a stove, wood, and not to mention, the actual down jacket off the ranger's wife's back. I am just not so sure what she really found out there, as I have to wonder what she brought there in the first place.	2001-01-07
US	51740940	R333FWL2QDOSZ9	1580050409	348727340	Desert Sojourn: A Woman's Forty Days and Nights Alone (Adventura Books)	Books	2	1	2	N	Y	Ill prepared, or self destructive?	This book has left me with more questions of which I find few answers.  First of all, I will and always will admire anyone brave and courageous enough to follow their hearts and write about it.  The courage to write and confront what you have actually done is often times more difficult than the act itself. I believe with all my heart that  Ms. Holmes-Binney deserves commendation for putting into words the fears and anxieties of her soul.<br />My concerns with her actions are relatively basic.  First of all, she seems to come from a family experienced with the outdoors.  While they pride themselves with &quot;not cheating&quot; when camping, I can not understand how in the world she planned this 40 day episode into the cold desert with such ill preparation.  Did she deliberately choose NOT to take adequate clothing, specifically, jacket and footwear? ( I have been on a fair amount of camping trips, and I know those two items would be highly important on my list of items to have.)  Instead of taking appropriate weather gear, she decides a &quot;leather jacket&quot; and some thrifty store salvation army type cowboy boots should see her through the endeavor.  I couldn't believe how naive she seemed, or was it self-destructive?  You decide.<br />Of course, with in the first few days, the inadequacy of all her chosen items seem to rear their ugly heads and it is literally her life that is at risk.  An untimely snowstorm moves in on her very first few days.  She is barely set up in her camp, her flimsy tent is flying apart and everything is soaking wet from the rainstorm that preceeded the freezing weather.  Her sleeping bags are soaking wet, and she has fallen apart mentally and physically. Her only salvation is that she hopes the ranger and his wife will not leave her out there to die. <br />It astounds me that she risked all this and spent so little time PLANNING for this adventure.  She never explains her motives for ill planning, either.  It seems to be just an oversight, but any educated person familiar with the wilderness knows you must plan and prepare for any time in the wild.  I just can not understand why she did this as she is not an ignorant person.  <br />She plans to find her spiritual self in 40 days and nights in the desert. She elects to conduct this spiritual journey solo, but thankfully a few people come to her aid and literally save her life by giving her a stove, wood, and not to mention, the actual down jacket off the ranger's wife's back. I am just not so sure what she really found out there, as I have to wonder what she brought there in the first place.	2001-01-07
US	51740940	R38WBRPA4QOS67	0679785892	58271710	Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Narcotized hilarity in Las Vegas	How brilliant that Las Vegas was the destination for this narcotized adventure.  What more perfect spot on earth to highlight the search for the quote, unquote, American Dream.  This is a rich treasure worth your inspection and introspection.  Not for everyone, though. No. Not at all....<br />Certainly, this will fly by many readers, especially those appalled by the sheer volume of drug consumption.  Those are the ones that will miss the essential comparison to the excess and abuse of Las Vegas. And, unfortunately, they will miss the absolute pure comedy Thompson writes, not to mention the great illustrations by Ralph Steadman.<br />I know I could write a better review, but I can not stop laughing every time I picture the attourney fighting &quot;the FEAR&quot;, locked in a standstill on the revolving merry-go-round bar, totally confused and going 'round and 'round until he had to be pulled off. <br />This is an original.	2000-12-29
US	51740940	R2QBFCZQUZHWCQ	0688174604	145575958	Car Camping: The Book of Desert Adventures	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Car Crapping	Take some of the weirdest trips in your life with Mark Sundeen and a bizarre assortment of characters he meets on the road.  Lucky for us he had time to write about them or they would be lost forever.  See what care free youth, a sense of humor and adventure can do as long as your clunker car keeps on chugging down the road. <br /> This is probably not a book to lend to &quot;sweet Aunt Helen&quot; as just about everything would distress her except some of the interesting bits of history woven into the adventures Mark is on. My suggestion is to pop open a beer, sit out in the sun and take the trip with Mark. Just don't expect to be an expert camper when you finish.	2000-12-16
US	51740940	R1P97CIVLDX5SC	0345423097	599249355	Joy School (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	WORD UP!!  Subtle sequel to Durable Goods	First of all, the marketing of this book made a serious error. The cover of the book does not reflect the fact that this is the sequel to _Durable Goods_. I read  _Durable Goods_  many months ago and I bought this book much later.  After reading _Joy School_ I still did not make the connection that this was the sequel. Tonight, I read  comments of other readers in preparation for writing a reader's review. I discovered to my dismay that I missed a very important fact that this indeed was the sequel! I  then closely examined the book and  the editorial comments, but no where was  a reference to _Joy School_ being the sequel to _Durable Goods._  I felt cheated, as I would have pulled out _Durable Goods_ and reviewed it quickly so as to make the _Joy School_ a more pleasurable experience.<br />However, I must admit that the book stood well enough on it's own.  <br />It is a subtle coming of age story of a young preteen faced with a disfunctional family life and the uncertainty of being constantly relocated due to her father being in the service. She falls in love with a man too old for her and is challenged by some neighborhood bullies that leave disgustingly rude notes in the bushes in front of her bedroom.  Like a ship trying to find a port in a storm, she is challenged by the friends she meets and heart broken by the problems her family faces. <br />Hopefully, other readers will catch on quicker than I did and make the connection between the two books.	2000-12-13
US	51740940	R1KISE939EDCRB	0345423097	599249355	Joy School (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	WORD UP!!  Subtle sequel to Durable Goods	First of all, the marketing of this book made a serious error. The cover of the book does not reflect the fact that this is the sequel to _Durable Goods_. I read  _Durable Goods_  many months ago and I bought this book much later.  After reading _Joy School_ I still did not make the connection that this was the sequel. Tonight, I read  comments of other readers in preparation for writing a reader's review. I discovered to my dismay that I missed a very important fact that this indeed was the sequel! I  then closely examined the book and  the editorial comments, but no where was  a reference to _Joy School_ being the sequel to _Durable Goods._  I felt cheated, as I would have pulled out _Durable Goods_ and reviewed it quickly so as to make the _Joy School_ a more pleasurable experience.<br />However, I must admit that the book stood well enough on it's own.  <br />It is a subtle coming of age story of a young preteen faced with a disfunctional family life and the uncertainty of being constantly relocated due to her father being in the service. She falls in love with a man too old for her and is challenged by some neighborhood bullies that leave disgustingly rude notes in the bushes in front of her bedroom.  Like a ship trying to find a port in a storm, she is challenged by the friends she meets and heart broken by the problems her family faces. <br />Hopefully, other readers will catch on quicker than I did and make the connection between the two books.	2000-12-13
US	51740940	R2VO35ST44MG4I	0446525537	721431789	A Walk to Remember	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A sensitive story without the fireworks	A boy becomes a man in this story written by Nicholas Sparks.  The sensitive story evolves without fireworks yet touches your heart with the same afterglow.<br />With a christian overtone, the story unfolds around a young man in 1958, experiencing conflicting feelings about the reverend's daughter.   For this young man, he must come to the reality of his own family history, a history noting his grandfather exploiting others for self gain and leaving his own future heirs ripe with wealth.  Confused as most teenagers are, he tries to work out his feelings of affections for Jamie, a plain Jane kind of girl, one not especially  notable by the up crowd in his high school.  Constantly trying to straddle acceptance, his 17th year of life proves to be one he and Jamie will never forget, one that they feel is a walk to remember.<br />Not willing to give away the plot, I will leave the review with no furthur comment other than to note that it is a book that should be left to unfold as it is, with it's own perfectly sweet simplicity.  Any more discussion simply will not do.	2000-12-12
US	51740940	R2GSAJSH4O8KH8	0375705856	285504170	Plainsong	Books	5	1	5	N	Y	Resonates with hope and joy	Like a plaintive wail, this book resonates with a simple and honest beauty that strikes the soul of the sensitive reader.  The beauty is in the stark simplicity and the ease it is to visualize the characters so frankly revealed.  This is a work of genius, a work where less is more, and the relationship of land to man offers extraordinarily significant reflections.<br />Those that are portrayed are etched firmly in the reader's mind.  Each are struggling with hardships and begin to intersect and connect so that the plot takes on an immensely hopefull tone, one that is not stretched beyond one's endurance, but so sweet and lovely that the joy of the story is indeed your reward.	2000-12-07
US	51740940	RIBEKTJET82DU	0375705856	963629300	Plainsong	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Resonates with hope and joy	Like a plaintive wail, this book resonates with a simple and honest beauty that strikes the soul of the sensitive reader.  The beauty is in the stark simplicity and the ease it is to visualize the characters so frankly revealed.  This is a work of genius, a work where less is more, and the relationship of land to man offers extraordinarily significant reflections.<br />Those that are portrayed are etched firmly in the reader's mind.  Each are struggling with hardships and begin to intersect and connect so that the plot takes on an immensely hopefull tone, one that is not stretched beyond one's endurance, but so sweet and lovely that the joy of the story is indeed your reward.	2000-12-07
US	51740940	R1G5NCDK7UTOXE	0393046974	498826779	House of Sand and Fog	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Still Reeling from the Impact!	At the conclusion of this book, I felt I had been sitting on a rollar coaster.  If you want to explore how far a book can go before exploding in your hands, this truly may be it.<br />The plot never allows you to feel you are going at the same pace without the overall anticipation of chaos reigning. The author allows us intimate character participation which successfully draws the reader inside the depth of the intense emotions they experience. It is unlikely that the reader will not respond deeply to the story content.  It is unlikely that the reader's pulse and respirations will not reflect what the character's are, and it is unlikely that the reader will not be frantic at trying to figure out a way to solve this conflict revolving around a little bungalow in the San Francisco suburbs.  At each turn of the page, the formula is changed, the events flipping and the reader intent on projecting some sort of compromise, captivated by the character's self-involvement and human faults.  Constantly edging to the cliff, the book leaves you gasping, the concepts so deep and psychological it certainly will prove itself a ripe resource for study groups and those challenged by human behavioral intellections.	2000-12-03
US	51740940	R1EZWT5568KRMB	1888363185	277736746	The Man with the Golden Arm	Books	5	4	8	N	Y	Not for emotional wimps	Simply put, this is not the kind of novel one takes lightly.  It is a thought provoking, dark, and meaty book that causes the reader to feel and live the desperation of the characters portrayed.  The book was written after WWll, and the aftermath of one man's self-medication of a war injury with the morphine (heroin) drug.  Looped into the mix is a very complicated marriage based on guilt, her lost hopes and dreams, those that worship the weak, and the weak that worship no one.   It is a novel, I think better read several times, for the first time is as if you are numbed by the bleakness of it all, the heaviness and the heartbreak.<br />This is no novel for emotional wimps.	2000-12-03
US	51740940	R1KRYU8VORGG9Y	0393046974	498826779	House of Sand and Fog	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Still Reeling from the Impact!	At the conclusion of this book, I felt I had been sitting on a rollar coaster.  If you want to explore how far a book can go before exploding in your hands, this truly may be it.<br />The plot never allows you to feel you are going at the same pace without the overall anticipation of chaos reigning. The author allows us intimate character participation which successfully draws the reader inside the depth of the intense emotions they experience. It is unlikely that the reader will not respond deeply to the story content.  It is unlikely that the reader's pulse and respirations will not reflect what the character's are, and it is unlikely that the reader will not be frantic at trying to figure out a way to solve this conflict revolving around a little bungalow in the San Francisco suburbs.  At each turn of the page, the formula is changed, the events flipping and the reader intent on projecting some sort of compromise, captivated by the character's self-involvement and human faults.  Constantly edging to the cliff, the book leaves you gasping, the concepts so deep and psychological it certainly will prove itself a ripe resource for study groups and those challenged by human behavioral intellections.	2000-12-02
US	51740940	R1CACZCWWA6Z4T	0446351474	826300879	Home Before Morning	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Remember the Nurses in Viet Nam	When the soldiers came home from Viet Nam, they were not the only ones to feel the wrath and confusion of the public sentiment.  The nurses came home to an emptiness that until now, and this book, has never been revealed.<br /> Ms. Van Devanter opens her heart and soul to the brutal reality of how nurses functioned in the Viet Nam War.  It is a deep and painful experience, but an experience that is nevertheless  taken with the courage of a true trauma nurse.  These nurses placed others first in all situations, emotional and physical.  Their sacrifice was daily, and there is no doubt that it adds up and takes its toll at the conclusion.  For some, the toll was taken immediately,  and for others, it was taken slowly, later, when they went home and tried to adjust to life after the war.<br />This is a stark and brilliant accounting of a life dedicated to saving the lives of young men in Viet Nam.  The nurses were there to help save  lives of the US, but unfortunately, when they got home, they found little resources available to help them save their own lives and re-enter a &quot;normal&quot; life after Viet Nam. <br />While much has been said about the men who fought in Viet Nam, until this book, little was acknowledged about the sacrifice these nurses made for their country. It is a stark contrast to see that this population was extrememly overlooked and under-supported upon their return to civilian life after the war.<br /> However, let me be clear. This is not a book that whines and demands retribution. It merely states the obvious, and is a picture of what was.  This is an important accounting of a nurse, performing the art she was trained to do and the courage she had to put it on paper and make it accountable.	2000-11-29
US	51740940	R16ZMR4R49ET37	0815149689	961407469	Psychotropic Drugs	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Psychopharmacological overview in practical format	In it's second edition, the book  divides into two essential overviews that are very  &quot;user friendly&quot;.  The first part profiles a general clinical psychopharmacology which provides a well written and comprehensible neuroanatomy review, which is basic to the understanding of  how psychotropic drugs work.  The mental disorders are discussed which these drugs are used to treat, along with ECT, abuse dynamics and  interventions.<br />The second section provides a  complete drug profile for more than 100 psychotropics.  Included in each profile are facts that exceed most common nursing medication books.  The drug index is all encompassing and has index resource to furthur promote a handy reference source.	2000-11-29
US	51740940	RG82HDB7Z89I5	0312263996	164241000	Timbuktu: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	A Dog's Tale	A bittersweet story of one dog's personal history is portrayed through the thoughts and feelings of Mr. Bones, a mixed breed that acknowledges his  own inferiority in the heirarchy of high bred dogs.   From his own self-awareness and remarkable intelligence, Mr. Bones reveals the ups and downs of  a dog's life on the streets with his homeless master, Willy.  Willy's health begins to seriously deteriorate and  Mr. Bones must cope with the unknown when his beloved master dies, and goes to heaven, or Timbuktu, as Willy calls it.<br />Now homeless, and frantic with panic, Mr. Bones uses his wits and the knowledge gleaned from his schizophrenic master.  In his search for food, shelter and safety from being captured and put down by the dog police, he reveals the ugly and sometimes kind nature of humans.  The vulnerability of such a situation allows the author to sear your heart and mind with images that will be difficult to forget.  The author holds nothing back as he projects Mr. Bones' reactions to the actions of strangers.  Be it man, or beast, all are looking for acceptance and a little kindness, and when those are violated the betrayal is deep and painful.  <br />Yet, despite the hurdles, Mr. Bones rationalizes his situation with a forgiving nature, a predisposition for seeing into the future and a desire to make do with what he has.  Expect to shed a few tears and smiles.  If you have a dog, they most likely will be happy to share your joy and sorrow.	2000-11-23
US	51740940	RK8T0SQS5ORV6	0425126021	869676196	The Roswell Incident	Books	4	13	20	N	Y	One Question	I have but one question.  If a weather ballon fell in your back yard, do you think the military, then or now, would spend all the time, money and energy validating it?<br />Wouldn't it be very obvious it was a weather balloon?  Why the secrecy? Why the blockades, the obvious panic displayed by the government?<br />It was apparant that balloons fell to the earth at this time, but there is not one case documented that the government went to such an EXTREME to note that it was a balloon and not an UFO.<br />Read the book and see what you see.	2000-11-15
US	51740940	R23PDERQAHZ0W9	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Odd Couple Takes on the Appalachian Trail!!	I loved this book! Bryson takes you along with him and his hysterically funny pal, Katz, as they challenge the Appalachian Trail. I understand his calling to throw a sandwich together, put on a day pack and set off on adventure.  Bryson meets his challenge with a sense of humor and serves to educate the reader in the process.  In between all the good-natured (pun intended) laughs was some meaningful pearls of ecological importance that everyone should pay attention to.  <br />Don't pass up this chance to meet some great people.  I only hope Bryson keeps on hiking with Katz because they are a  classic pair that rings of an original rustic Odd Couple!	2000-11-02
US	51740940	R3V1R5O491IG65	1573540463	30127865	The DEL-California Dog Lover's Companion 3 Ed: The Inside Scoop on Where to Take Your Dog	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	So many places to go with your dog!	We have only had our dog 5 months, now, and I can't say that I have tried alot of the places reviewed in this book. <br />I can say that I am overwhelmingly grateful that someone took the time to compile this information. I used to poke fun at my friends who couldn't bare to leave their dog at home, and now I find myself feeling the same way! The prospects of what this book has to offer is delightful.<br />The book is broken down into counties.  You will find listings for parks, recreation, places to stay, restaurants, and diversions.  Depending on what the county has to offer, those that are profiled are rated.  The book is fun to use and humorous. It is reassuring to see so many places that are dog friendly, and I anticipate patronizing quite a few of the listings.	2000-11-02
US	51740940	R2Z0P4UGHB0Q1O	0345410300	769919052	Killer Diller: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Lacked the Mattie Spunk	I anticipated this novel to capture the uniqueness of Walking Across Egypt.  Unfortunately, I was disappointed.<br />WAE introduced me to Mattie Rigsbee, an energetic, high-spirited senior that loves to cook and bake her way through life.  She took in Wesley, a juevile delinquent, and gave him the love and encouragement he needed to become a fine, young man.  Which is where _Killer Diller_ takes up.<br />Wesley is now at a strict Christian School, enrolled in a Project Promise Program that restructures, rehabilitates, and reprograms disadvantaged youths in the &quot;only&quot; way, the Baptist way.  He attends classes, is in a band, and is a preceptor to an autistic boy named Vernon (who says &quot;Killer Diller&quot;, hence the title) teaching Vernon how to lay bricks as part of another administration inspired program.<br />   Influenced by Mattie to the Christian life style, Wesley enthusiastically embraces their philosophy without question. His remarkable &quot;recovery&quot; attracts the attention of the manipulative Christian College Administration.  They scheme to use him and his band to advertise their Christian college and ultimately, orchestrate fund raising to fullfill their self-serving purposes. He begins to ask questions and seek answers to the confusing and conflicting interpretations of the bible and the self-serving actions of the  college administration.<br />What seems to be lacking is Mattie's presence in the story.  While she is &quot;there&quot;  her character is minimized. The ending feels rushed and somehow unfulfilling.  Christian and Bible hypocrisy is explored deeply in this story as Wesley searches for answers. While I feel Mr. Edgerton explored this aspect very skillfully, somehow it collectively fell flat in the end.	2000-11-02
US	51740940	R2YIWWVZTQD172	0671042858	321732450	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon	Books	5	0	1	N	N	right up my forest	As a parent, I spend considerable time trying to educate my children how to protect themselves from strangers, be aware of their surroundings when they are at the mall, be alert to the potential of dangerous situations, and, ad nauseum, what to do should this or that occur and you find yourself lost and on your own.<br />As a parent, no amount of information is enough to keep them safe in our minds.  We stand at the edge of paranoia, always geared to protecting our young. As a family, ourselves, we take our time off and go camping, hiking and exploring in the Sierras.  Ever attempting to pass on knowledge, my wild life biologist husband delivers education and passes on nuggets of survival tricks.<br /> I was impressed with the story line Stephen King delivers in this book. One child actually payed attention to the nuggets of wildlife facts her mother served up on their outings in the Maine woods. Interpreted as boring by the older brother, he oftentimes uses the occassion to protest verbally to his mother everything he hates about his life and what the divorce has done to destroy it.<br /> How fortunate that this chirpy 9 year old girl, Trisha, always eager to please and make peace anyway she can, listened to these seemingly useless tips.  In the end, these morsels of information added up and saved her life when she became lost while on a hike with her brother and Mother.<br />Trish was only trying to find a secret spot where no one could see her to pee.  Trying to pee like her mom showed her, she gets turned around and as Mr. King puts it, began making some very unfortunate decisions. Having left the main trail, it turns into a guessing game as to where and how to get back to it.  Trish loses and gets lost.<br />Her tale is one of shear guts and determination, helplessness and physical and mental stress beyond the coping mechanisms of a 9 year old.  She does however, recover the nuggets of information imparted to her by her mom, and struggles day after day to help herself.<br />One of her saviours is the love for baseball and one player in particular, Tom Gordon.  Carefully, she tries to allot herself only so much time to listen to her walkman before the batteries die and she is left without her human link and bond in a  box.  As she tries to conserve the batteries, her imagination and stress induced hallucinations bring Tom Gordon to her.  As she  challenges herself with the struggle of just getting enough water and a few berries to eat a day, she senses an ominous presence that has been following her day after day, night after night.<br />A griping novel, one that makes you love and cry for this young, lost girl, it is full of drama, intensity and mystery.elp herself.<br />One of her saviours is the love for baseball and one player in particular, Tom Gordon.  Carefully, she tries to allot herself only so much time to listen to her walkman before the batteries die and she is left without her human link and bond in a  box.  As she tries to conserve the batteries, her imagination and stress induced hallucinations bring Tom Gordon to her.  As she  challenges herself with the struggle of just getting enough water and a few berries to eat a day, she senses an ominous presence that has been following her day after day, night after night.<br />A griping novel, one that makes you love and cry for this young, lost girl, it is full of drama, intensity and mystery.	2000-10-06
US	51740940	R1A3FTSTYP2LR5	0684853515	692650386	Hearts In Atlantis	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Aces, all around	Bravo to Stephen King who once again re-creates literature.  Never one to stick to a rigid formula of presentation, he artfully produces his novels with brilliant creativity.  The man blends the real and imaginary into stories that are unique and on the edge.  For this alone, he deserves recognition.<br />Hearts in Atlantis is an interwoven tale that will touch your heart if you let it.  For those of the nay-sayers, I respect your opinions, but feel you are missing out on some incredible reads.  I am saying this as one being very new on the SK band wagon...I started with one novel and was led to another, then another.  I caught the rhythm and was intrigued by references to his past stories.<br />Ever alert to new and old material, I adore how King links honored literature and movies within the story content, provoking my re-interest in books I read in high school and  all the books and movies that slipped by me over the years since. I feel as if he personally offers me his favorites; a  true gift of sorts for the impassioned reader and lover of old movies.<br />Hearts in Atlantis weaves a collection of stories which connect to each other  through  a selection of characters that, of course, touch your heart, but  never allows you the luxury of surmising the outcome.  A boy's childhood  (Bobby) is revealed , along with the growing pains of adolescence and the heartbreak of being a son without a father .  Elegantly portrayed, a lodger named Ted becomes a substitute male figure for this love starved youth. Ted has some secrets of his own, and makes Bobby aware of his fears that he is being stalked by some shady characters.  Just as a child's  imagination runs wild, the reality of Ted is in fact the truth.  He reluctantly takes Bobby into his confidence, and Bobby discovers that life is not as simple as a baseball game.<br />The book revolves around a key set of friends that grow up together.  It blends them into a  broader representation of what life was like for the generation immediately affected by the war in Viet Nam.  In the course of the story  past characters and story lines are intelligently interjected, beckoning one to know more, yet satisfied with the story before you.<br />And so, I was introduced to past story lines (Dark Towers) represented in a selection of novels Mr. King has written.  Even though I was unfamiliar with them, I  was compelled to read them,  anxious to know more and to quench the thirst that seems to arise when I read his novels.  That I did not know of them made no difference to me in regards to this experience of reading_ Hearts in Atalantis _for the story was delivered well regardless.<br />Simply said, that is the job Mr. King does.  He inspires you to wonder , to consider, to beckon the possiblilities he presents.  He offers wonderful stories, twisted with magic and the illogic, ever beckoning you to stretch your imagination and just wonder what would it be like to...well experience what he imagines.  He touches your heart and raises your pulse. The rest of the outcome is up to you.eneration immediately affected by the war in Viet Nam.  In the course of the story  past characters and story lines are intelligently interjected, beckoning one to know more, yet satisfied with the story before you.  <br />And so, I was introduced to past story lines (Dark Towers) represented in a selection of novels Mr. King has written.  Even though I was unfamiliar with them, I  was compelled to read them,  anxious to know more and to quench the thirst that seems to arise when I read his novels.   That I did not know of them made no difference to me in regards to this experience of reading_ Hearts in Atalantis _for the story was delivered well regardless. <br />Simply said, that is the job Mr. King does.    He inspires you to wonder , to consider, to beckon the possiblilities he presents.  He offers wonderful stories, twisted with magic and the illogic, ever beckoning you to stretch your imagination and just wonder what would it be like to...well experience what he imagines.  He touches your heart and raises your pulse. The rest of the outcome is up to you.	2000-09-29
US	51740940	R14TLOS6HCD4CD	0684853515	692650386	Hearts In Atlantis	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Aces, all around	Bravo to Stephen King who once again re-creates literature.  Never one to stick to a rigid formula of presentation, he artfully produces his novels with brilliant creativity.  The man blends the real and imaginary into stories that are unique and on the edge.  For this alone, he deserves recognition.<br />Hearts in Atlantis is an interwoven tale that will touch your heart if you let it.  For those of the nay-sayers, I respect your opinions, but feel you are missing out on some incredible reads.  I am saying this as one being very new on the SK band wagon...I started with one novel and was led to another, then another.  I caught the rhythm and was intrigued by references to his past stories.<br />Ever alert to new and old material, I adore how King links honored literature and movies within the story content, provoking my re-interest in books I read in high school and  all the books and movies that slipped by me over the years since. I feel as if he personally offers me his favorites; a  true gift of sorts for the impassioned reader and lover of old movies.<br />Hearts in Atlantis weaves a collection of stories which connect to each other  through  a selection of characters that, of course, touch your heart, but  never allows you the luxury of surmising the outcome.   A boy's childhood  (Bobby) is revealed , along with the growing pains of adolescence and the heartbreak of being a son without a father .  Elegantly portrayed, a lodger named Ted becomes a substitute male figure for this love starved youth. Ted has some secrets of his own, and makes Bobby aware of his fears that he is being stalked by some shady characters.  Just as a child's  imagination runs wild, the reality of Ted is in fact the truth.  He reluctantly takes Bobby into his confidence, and Bobby discovers that life is not as simple as a baseball game.<br />The book revolves around a key set of friends that grow up together.  It blends them into a  broader representation of what life was like for the generation immediately affected by the war in Viet Nam.  In the course of the story  past characters and story lines are intelligently interjected, beckoning one to know more, yet satisfied with the story before you.  <br />And so, I was introduced to past story lines (Dark Towers) represented in a selection of novels Mr. King has written.  Even though I was unfamiliar with them, I  was compelled to read them,  anxious to know more and to quench the thirst that seems to arise when I read his novels.   That I did not know of them made no difference to me in regards to this experience of reading_ Hearts in Atalantis _for the story was delivered well regardless. <br />Simply said, that is the job Mr. King does.    He inspires you to wonder , to consider, to beckon the possiblilities he presents.  He offers wonderful stories, twisted with magic and the illogic, ever beckoning you to stretch your imagination and just wonder what would it be like to...well experience what he imagines.  He touches your heart and raises your pulse. The rest of the outcome is up to you.	2000-09-29
US	51740940	R3KIDR95UG8LSI	0898864828	300305962	In the Zone: Epic Survival Stories from the Mountaineering World	Books	4	2	3	N	N	With the greatest respect for those that must climb higher	When I was in college, one of my dear friends became paralyzed after a mountain climbing accident.  It was a shocking experience because I was very unfamiliar with the sport at the time.  I suppose my friend's accident  spurred my curiosity  but I believe that my early interest in the sport was initiated by fear and wonder.  I  am fascinated by the mountains that attract those individuals who feel compelled to conquer them.  The entire sport enthralls and repells me.  I  seek to understand it but abhor the senseless loss when something goes wrong and claims the lives of these magnificent men and women, leaving in their wake their loved ones and friends to forever try and rationalize their death.<br />While those of you felt this book lacked accountability and content, I lack the experience in mountain climbing to be so critical of the stories projected by the author.  I was able to experience through my imagination what it must have felt like to live through these mountaineering challenges.  I feel no need to ask too many questions in respect to faults, for I know so very little about the sport.  I simply held the stories in my mind, reflected on their enormity and danger, and appreciated the skills of rescuers and the drive of certain people to climb to the highest mountain and breathe the thinest of air.  <br />For that, I enjoyed this book.  Quite simply, I appreciated reading the stories with my feet planted firmly on my floor.	2000-09-26
US	51740940	R8P5L4967QVFV	0898864828	300305962	In the Zone: Epic Survival Stories from the Mountaineering World	Books	4	1	1	N	N	With the greatest respect for those that must climb higher	When I was in college, one of my dear friends became paralyzed after a mountain climbing accident.  It was a shocking experience because I was very unfamiliar with the sport at the time.  I suppose my friend's accident  spurred my curiosity  but I believe that my early interest in the sport was initiated by fear and wonder.  I  am fascinated by the mountains that attract those individuals who feel compelled to conquer them.  The entire sport enthralls and repells me.  I  seek to understand it but abhor the senseless loss when something goes wrong and claims the lives of these magnificent men and women, leaving in their wake their loved ones and friends to forever try and rationalize their death.<br />While those of you felt this book lacked accountability and content, I lack the experience in mountain climbing to be so critical of the stories projected by the author.  I was able to experience through my imagination what it must have felt like to live through these mountaineering challenges.  I feel no need to ask too many questions in respect to faults, for I know so very little about the sport.  I simply held the stories in my mind, reflected on their enormity and danger, and appreciated the skills of rescuers and the drive of certain people to climb to the highest mountain and breathe the thinest of air.  <br />For that, I enjoyed this book.  Quite simply, I appreciated reading the stories with my feet planted firmly on my floor.	2000-09-26
US	51740940	R1RN146EOB4YCX	0767900014	620451274	Iams Complete Dog Owner's Manual	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Comprehensive Care for Man's Best Friend	When most parents expect their babies, the more reponsible ones reach out  for information, be that in books, magazines or from their own parents. The  reality is you want to learn as much as you can to be prepared to be the  best parent you can be.<br />Our family adopted a labrador from a rescue  foundation.  With the coordination of a wonderful rescue foundation  (Southern California Labrador Retriever Rescue) we were matched with a  perfect labrador for our family.<br />This was my first dog. I have always had  cats, so I knew I needed to quickly educate myself.  I was fortunate to  come across this book sponsored by Iams and found it to be highly  informative.  The book features the more popular breeds of dogs which I  found very handy because dog owners attract dog owners, and your interest  begins to expand with each new owner/dog you meet.  It was helpful to  understand which breeds are compatible with each other and how to introduce  your dog to social situations.  <br />I needed basic dog obediance guidelines  to back up my classes with our dog, and I found their informtion to be very  applicable. Not only did the book review nutrition and basic health care  requirements, it provided information for grooming, exercise and a general  overview of the responsibilities one must assume with ownership of these  animals.<br />I realize it doesn't take a rocket scientist to state the  obvious when it comes to raising and owning a dog, but when you present the  above information with beautiful illustrations and practical advice, you  serve to make the experience so much more positive for both dog and owner.	2000-09-12
US	51740940	R5XBAC80YRP5Y	0896584682	704300005	Love of Labs: The Ultimate Tribute to Labrador Retrievers (Petlife Library)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A lab is pure love	I have only had the priviledge of owning our adopted black lab, Abbott  (rescued by Southern California Labrador Retriever Rescue) for about 4  months.  I can not tell you how incredible these dogs are!!  The family  loyalty is palpable. The intense devotion these dogs display to their  family is remarkable.  The absolute joy this dog has brought to us is a  gift that is compounded daily. How can one really describe a lab's love for  their family? (and the family for them)  I was so happy to see a book that  comes close to trying to express this. <br />Quite simply, the stories and  pictures are beautiful.  Share this book with anyone that loves these dogs  for it is a pure delight just to turn the pages and look at the pictures!   We feel so lucky to live with the real thing!	2000-09-12
US	51740940	R3KAE7LOOLXDVF	1570761205	783964116	From Birth to Backing: The Complete Handling of the Young Horse	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Horse Whispering that anyone can understand	When my  daughter began riding and eventually entering any and all  competitions within our county, my husband and I knew we had to keep up!   Her passion for riding led to us leasing horses, and we took this  responsibility seriously.  We found this book by Maxwell and Sharples to be  extrememly helpful.  I was overwhelmed with how much there was to learn,  but her book efficiently catagorized the most essential things one needs to  know about horses.  The format of the book profiles all ages of the horse  from young to elder and deals with behaviors, anxieties, training, problems  and solutions.  The book goes  in depth to reveal the best way to handle  your horse and their behavior, not to mention health and maintainance  issues.<br />Briefly, this is an excellent all encompassing manual of  comprehensive horse care and maintainance.  For a lay person like myself, I  feel I can tackle this book and come away with some very useful  information, even if I am not exactly Elizabeth Taylor in her younger  years.	2000-09-12
US	51740940	R23NCQ0SJGK881	0896584682	704300005	Love of Labs: The Ultimate Tribute to Labrador Retrievers (Petlife Library)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A lab is pure love	I have only had the priviledge of owning our adopted black lab, Abbott  (rescued by Southern California Labrador Retriever Rescue) for about 4  months.  I can not tell you how incredible these dogs are!!  The family  loyalty is palpable. The intense devotion these dogs display to their  family is remarkable.  The absolute joy this dog has brought to us is a  gift that is compounded daily. How can one really describe a lab's love for  their family? (and the family for them)  I was so happy to see a book that  comes close to trying to express this. <br />Quite simply, the stories and  pictures are beautiful.  Share this book with anyone that loves these dogs  for it is a pure delight just to turn the pages and look at the pictures!   We feel so lucky to live with the real thing!	2000-09-12
US	51740940	R12GMUSI9UOGZ	078580577X	683253418	The Bread Machine Book	Books	5	27	27	N	N	This is THE Bread Machine Book	I bought this book more than a year ago and reserved my review until I  carefully and thoughroughly tried many of the recipes. My conclusion is  that it is EXCELLENT in regards to being a machine oriented bread  book.<br />What is good about the recipes is that I could alter them a bit  (with different berries, or nuts, added or deleted) and the bread still  turned out very well.  I found with a well rounded grocery list of staples,  I could get a huge variety of breads that satisfied the entire  family.<br />Bread Machines are great, especially if you use them to do the  dough and go to the extra effort to put them in your own oven.  I was  really impressed with the variety in the book.  I especially love the  machines when cold weather comes upon us, as there is just nothing better  than fresh baked bread on a winter/fall day.<br />If you are reluctant to  experiment, try this book. It is pretty much a sure bet for just about any  recipe.	2000-09-12
US	51740940	R2B8KF3MT104Z	1570761205	783964116	From Birth to Backing: The Complete Handling of the Young Horse	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Horse Whispering that anyone can understand	When my  daughter began riding and eventually entering any and all  competitions within our county, my husband and I knew we had to keep up!   Her passion for riding led to us leasing horses, and we took this  responsibility seriously.  We found this book by Maxwell and Sharples to be  extrememly helpful.  I was overwhelmed with how much there was to learn,  but her book efficiently catagorized the most essential things one needs to  know about horses.  The format of the book profiles all ages of the horse  from young to elder and deals with behaviors, anxieties, training, problems  and solutions.  The book goes  in depth to reveal the best way to handle  your horse and their behavior, not to mention health and maintainance  issues.<br />Briefly, this is an excellent all encompassing manual of  comprehensive horse care and maintainance.  For a lay person like myself, I  feel I can tackle this book and come away with some very useful  information, even if I am not exactly Elizabeth Taylor in her younger  years.	2000-09-12
US	51740940	R1XB9ZG5R28RWB	0767900014	620451274	Iams Complete Dog Owner's Manual	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Comprehensive Care for Man's Best Friend	When most parents expect their babies, the more reponsible ones reach out  for information, be that in books, magazines or from their own parents. The  reality is you want to learn as much as you can to be prepared to be the  best parent you can be.<br />Our family adopted a labrador from a rescue  foundation.  With the coordination of a wonderful rescue foundation  (Southern California Labrador Retriever Rescue) we were matched with a  perfect labrador for our family.<br />This was my first dog. I have always had  cats, so I knew I needed to quickly educate myself.  I was fortunate to  come across this book sponsored by Iams and found it to be highly  informative.  The book features the more popular breeds of dogs which I  found very handy because dog owners attract dog owners, and your interest  begins to expand with each new owner/dog you meet.  It was helpful to  understand which breeds are compatible with each other and how to introduce  your dog to social situations.  <br />I needed basic dog obediance guidelines  to back up my classes with our dog, and I found their informtion to be very  applicable. Not only did the book review nutrition and basic health care  requirements, it provided information for grooming, exercise and a general  overview of the responsibilities one must assume with ownership of these  animals.<br />I realize it doesn't take a rocket scientist to state the  obvious when it comes to raising and owning a dog, but when you present the  above information with beautiful illustrations and practical advice, you  serve to make the experience so much more positive for both dog and owner.	2000-09-12
US	51740940	RU49J9W7F39D9	0140131671	168179964	East Is East (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Master of Fiction	There is no doubt in my mind that TC Boyle reigns as the master of  fiction. Here he sets up a unique story of a young japanese seaman who  jumps ship and lands square in the muck of a Georgia swamp.  He has no idea  where he is and the people he meets has no idea what he is.  But, everyone  gets very excited and the story takes off in many directions at once.<br />His  experiences on the run are delightful and tragic.  No one  can put it  together like Mr.  Boyle.  His books have yet to let me down.	2000-09-10
US	51740940	ROV2S1BEFDNYK	0140131671	168179964	East Is East (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Master of Fiction	There is no doubt in my mind that TC Boyle reigns as the master of  fiction. Here he sets up a unique story of a young japanese seaman who  jumps ship and lands square in the muck of a Georgia swamp.  He has no idea  where he is and the people he meets has no idea what he is.  But, everyone  gets very excited and the story takes off in many directions at once.<br />His  experiences on the run are delightful and tragic.  No one  can put it  together like Mr.  Boyle.  His books have yet to let me down.	2000-09-10
US	51740940	R2ELDJNOQI02MF	067102423X	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	King serves up another winner	Stephen King offers a full plate with this novel.  The cadence of the  story builds to a powerful ending.  Getting there is the fun part.<br />The  main character is a likeable author heartbroken over the unexpected death  of his wife.  Clutched in her hand is a pregnancy test kit of which he  didn't have a clue.  As he tries to sort out the questions that inevitably  arise, he finds himself in the middle of an ugly town secret and subjected  to townspeople who attempt to intimidate him to just go away.<br />But, of  course, he doesn't go away.  In fact, powerful influences in the  supernatural form visit upon him with hints and cyptic messages that he  must struggle to make sense of.  The story moves along at a nice pace and  really leaves you guessing as to the hidden agenda.  The finish is very  powerful. The book reads so brilliantly that in your mind's eye you can  literally form your own movie.	2000-09-10
US	51740940	R2ELNRW2LGV58O	067102423X	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	King serves up another winner	Stephen King offers a full plate with this novel.  The cadence of the  story builds to a powerful ending.  Getting there is the fun part.<br />The  main character is a likeable author heartbroken over the unexpected death  of his wife.  Clutched in her hand is a pregnancy test kit of which he  didn't have a clue.  As he tries to sort out the questions that inevitably  arise, he finds himself in the middle of an ugly town secret and subjected  to townspeople who attempt to intimidate him to just go away.<br />But, of  course, he doesn't go away.  In fact, powerful influences in the  supernatural form visit upon him with hints and cyptic messages that he  must struggle to make sense of.  The story moves along at a nice pace and  really leaves you guessing as to the hidden agenda.  The finish is very  powerful. The book reads so brilliantly that in your mind's eye you can  literally form your own movie.	2000-09-10
US	51740940	RR0KMDW437QN8	0140299963	168528560	Budding Prospects: A Pastoral (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Farming the dangerous way	Coming from Northern California (albeit 20 years ago), I am very familiar  with Willits and home grown Humboldt Gold.  I met those that attempted to  cash in on the lushest crop of all and how they went about it.  So, it was  with amusement that I picked up this book and re-visited old territories  and memories.  (what I can remember, short term as they can be, and  all.)<br />This was an entertaining, quick trip back to then, although I never  was brave enough to attempt to garden this cash crop of pot. But, the  characters in this book do, and for a while you think they might just pull  it off,  But then....... I&quot;m not going to tell you.<br />Read the book.   It was fun.	2000-09-10
US	51740940	RQ8G22TTYQTDL	0140299963	168528560	Budding Prospects: A Pastoral (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Farming the dangerous way	Coming from Northern California (albeit 20 years ago), I am very familiar  with Willits and home grown Humboldt Gold.  I met those that attempted to  cash in on the lushest crop of all and how they went about it.  So, it was  with amusement that I picked up this book and re-visited old territories  and memories.  (what I can remember, short term as they can be, and  all.)<br />This was an entertaining, quick trip back to then, although I never  was brave enough to attempt to garden this cash crop of pot. But, the  characters in this book do, and for a while you think they might just pull  it off,  But then....... I&quot;m not going to tell you.<br />Read the book.   It was fun.	2000-09-10
US	51740940	R1673CKELANIIN	0451188462	562576523	Desperation	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	I dare you to read this on a road trip through Nevada!!	Right from the start, Mr. King sets up the situation and you, as the  reader, get to FEEl it.  The helplessness, the out of control paralysis  that befalls these hapless travelers as they drive their vehicles through  that lonely, old stretch of highway through Nevada...known simply as  Interstate 50; or &quot;the loneliest place on Earth&quot;.<br />Is it random  that a selected few fall victim to the evilness that poses as one's savior  in the form of the policeman? Or, do his victims really have a destiny to  meet in Desperation?  <br />One by one, the policeman somehow targets his  travelers by altering their reality and inventing their trespasses.  In  doing so, he comes across as a hero to some..(oh, what a relief..A  policeman to help us and we just blew four (FOUR?) tires.)  Events quickly  turn around and suddenly the travelers are manipulated or forced to the  small jail in a town ironically named Desperation.<br />From this moment on,  Mr. King excells in describing how it feels to be so vulnerable.  Luckily,  the young son of one incarcerated family, proves to be a worthy opponent to  the evilness that has rendered them helpless.  With the joint efforts of  each other, the jailed pull together and try to save themselves, all the  time exposed to the unbelievable world around them.<br />I won't detail the  specifics of the plot, obviously the last 400 reviews have done so quite  well.  I will say that I read this book on a camping trip through the  eastern Sierras and Nevada. My exposure to the setting certainly ignited my  imagination, but not as near well enough as Stephen King.  Here, in  Desperation, he puts out a unique thriller and page turner that is sure to  cause  more than a little anxiety!	2000-09-09
US	51740940	R2L627C327AI84	0451191013	575466033	The Regulators	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	TAK is BACK!	Once again, evil befalls a select group of innocent people.  In this case,  it takes place in the suburbs of Wentworth, Ohio.  The entity, Tak, who was  granted new life from an old abandoned mine in Desperation Nevada, is  back.<br />And, when Tak is back, there is hell on earth.  So is the reality,  displaced and altered to accommodate the visuals of an autistic boy named  Seth.  In the course of a few hours, Tak strives to act out a western movie  and &quot;wipe this town off the map.&quot;  As Tak plans and begins to act  out his strategy, the neighbors on the block of Poplar Street watch in  horror as everything around them turns into an old desert mining town,  complete with the chinese laundry, log cabins and hitching posts. Then the  life size toy vans drive through and unleash their barrage at the stricken  neighborhood.  Remarkably, oddly constructed animals and signs sprout up  and it reminds everyone of a first grader's attempt at drawings come  alive.<br />How to stop it, how to confine Tak?  Tak literally feeds off the  souls of dead, sucking their life energy and making him stronger.  Yet he  is trapped in the body of a 7 year old, and can only physically accomplish  what the 7 year old can do.  In his frustration, he attempts to move on,  but finds that Seth, the 7 year old autistic child has reached deep inside  his own malfunctioning brain to change Tak's course forever.	2000-09-09
US	51740940	R3F75JJ614U6XI	0671041789	867268465	The Green Mile	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The facts speak for themselves.	FIRST, THE FACTS<br />When over 330 people have taken the trouble to review a  book, it is obvious the book was enjoyed and highly rated.<br />What could I  possibly write that is any different than what everyone else has said  already?  (pertaining to those that rated it highly)<br />Isn't the movie  (which was also hugely endorsed) and the author alone enough to convince  anyone to read this incredible story?<br />The facts speak for themselves.  It  is a remarkable book and movie.  I will simply speak for myself and how the  story affected me.<br />I am a nurse and I work in a prison so there was that  attraction for me to notice the book's plot.  Being a relative new comer to  the books of Mr. King, I truly felt enchanted by this one.  My parents, who  I refer all my favorite novels, will be sent this book as it is not the  typical gory horror story one may assume of Mr. King.  (They are reluctant  to read most of his.)  And that, I wish to emphasize, is the beauty of this  book.  It is a beautiful tale with a twist of magic and faith.<br />I am not  going to write about the plot, there are many wonderful reviews going into  that. If I can express to you my experience of reading this novel, I would  tell you that I could not stop reading it, I felt very involved with the  characters and moved to tears several times.  Mr. King truly captured the  intensity of someone caught in the middle of lies and truth, and weaves  this incredible story of faith and love to tie it all together.<br />Back to  the facts, and it is simple, this is a perfect novel.	2000-09-05
US	51740940	R1XGFJ9AHS3JY0	0876050429	97560452	AZ Of Dog Diseases &amp; Health Problems: Signs, Diagnoses, Causes, Treatment	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	A dog heath manual essential for owners	We just adopted a 2 year old black lab named Abbott.  My husband has  always grown up with dogs, but, not me.  I have had cats, and this was all  new to me!<br />So, it was time to get precise information, and this book is  essential for dog owners.  The books deals with signs and symptoms,  diagnosis, causes of disease, and treatments.  The handy format is easy to  use and is concise.  All types of breeds are discussed, which I found very  interesting.  The disease pathology is professional and informative enough  to satisfy consultation.<br />A must for new and old time dog owners!	2000-09-05
US	51740940	RSE6YF37N4TJJ	0671041789	867268465	The Green Mile	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	The facts speak for themselves.	FIRST, THE FACTS<br />When over 330 people have taken the trouble to review a  book, it is obvious the book was enjoyed and highly rated.<br />What could I  possibly write that is any different than what everyone else has said  already?  (pertaining to those that rated it highly)<br />Isn't the movie  (which was also hugely endorsed) and the author alone enough to convince  anyone to read this incredible story?<br />The facts speak for themselves.  It  is a remarkable book and movie.  I will simply speak for myself and how the  story affected me.<br />I am a nurse and I work in a prison so there was that  attraction for me to notice the book's plot.  Being a relative new comer to  the books of Mr. King, I truly felt enchanted by this one.  My parents, who  I refer all my favorite novels, will be sent this book as it is not the  typical gory horror story one may assume of Mr. King.  (They are reluctant  to read most of his.)  And that, I wish to emphasize, is the beauty of this  book.  It is a beautiful tale with a twist of magic and faith.<br />I am not  going to write about the plot, there are many wonderful reviews going into  that. If I can express to you my experience of reading this novel, I would  tell you that I could not stop reading it, I felt very involved with the  characters and moved to tears several times.  Mr. King truly captured the  intensity of someone caught in the middle of lies and truth, and weaves  this incredible story of faith and love to tie it all together.<br />Back to  the facts, and it is simple, this is a perfect novel.	2000-09-05
US	51740940	R2SAHGC5I9ALHG	1885106041	981854554	Dog First Aid: A Field Guide to Emergency Care for the Outdoor Dog	Books	5	24	26	N	Y	For the camping, hiking, traveling, hunting, outdoor dog!	Being a nurse, I take the proverbial &quot;be prepared&quot; to extremes,  but when you are camping hundreds of miles away from the nearest emergency  health care facility, you must be educated to handle most emergencies of  your family members.<br />Well, DON&quot;T FORGET THE DOG<br />We just adopted a  wonderful black labrador, and being a busy outdoor kind of family I needed  a concise, handy, well rounded emergency care manual for my little boy,  Abbott.  I researched and decided on this pocket field guide that is  perfect for carrying on your outdoor excursions.  I am pleased with the  content and find the directions easy to follow, even for a lay person  uneducated in medicine.  <br />Hopefully, my dog will never need emergent  care, but I feel better knowing and gathering the knowledge needed to be  there for him if the need becomes reality.  Buy this book and put together  a first aid kit for your dog.  His life could depend on it.	2000-09-05
US	51740940	R259RZTISAJ037	0316601950	760222125	The Pilot's Wife (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Flying in and out of life	I will never forget this book.  The day after I read it, Alaska Airlines crashed practically outside my window in the Pacific Ocean off the Channel Islands taking the lives of all passengers and flight crew.  The county was  in shock from the disaster.  As the days went by, the newspapers began to  profile the victims,  their lives and their  families.  It was  heartbreaking to see the family members trying to cope with the sudden loss  of their loved ones.  We couldn't help but wonder how they got through such  an event, it was all so horrific.<br />While I was touched by this book, it  was obvious that the impact of the crash would force me to take a more  dramatic view of the story.   I couldn't help but wonder how  the survivors  were coping with such a shattering experience. <br />Hopefully,  none of  survivors were having to discover that their loved ones were living a  double life like the wife, Kathryn in the book finds out about her husband  who was also the pilot of the plane.  As Kathryn moves through the grieving  process, events unfold to lay open the guarded secret her husband kept  hidden from her all those years.  <br />Kathryn finds herself reevaluating  everything about their life together.  She reviews events, memories and  feelings, trying to discover  the signs and symptoms of the beginning of   betrayal and the end of trust.	2000-07-20
US	51740940	R2GDKH2Y5CA56Q	0679457526	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mount Everest Disaster	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Leaves you truly breathless	Most everyone heard about the tradgedy on Mr. Everest  May 10, 1996.  Many heard about it from television, and the shear drama of the horrific event spurred furthur interest for me and many like me.  There were so many  questions.  How could this happen?  Is the commercialism behind the sport  proving to be their ultimate shortfall?  Even more perplexing, what kind of  person becomes so committed to climbing mountains that they risk  everything?<br />Jon Krakauer puts forth a brilliant effort to answer these  questions, and so many more.  He very respectfully details the events that  brought death to the mountain that day.  In some heartbreaking moments I  guarantee tears will fall as you read about Rob Hall making his final call  to his pregnant wife in Australia.  Knowing he wasn't going to make it, he  encourages her on, being a hero and a loving husband right until the  end.<br />There were many factors that came into play those weeks.  Krakauer  details the distressing commercialism of the sport and the pollution left  behind.  He speaks about the bodies left high on the mountain that must  remain, the thousands of empty oxygen cannisters dumped along the route,  the politics and the sherpas that rely on the deluge of  expeditions.<br />There were many heros those few days and they are aptly  discussed.  The author tells of the helicopter rescue team that risked  their lives to save the others.  You will read about the unbelievable  determination and strength of men and women who try to achieve the most  difficult  ambition in the sport world and how they pull together to pick  up the pieces when it fails.<br />This is a poignant story that surely will  stay with you forever.	2000-07-18
US	51740940	R2KRQI5RTUUJYX	0613033191	795266779	The Deep End of the Ocean	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A  deeper novel than what it appears	As any mother or father fear, what if something happens to their baby...what if  their baby gets lost?  What if the possibility exists that the baby was kidnapped?  What if the baby is killed?  Never seen again?   What if you never find out WHAT HAPPENED to your missing baby?  <br />Well,  then how do you cope?  How do you go on?  Go to work?  Be a spouse, a  partner, a parent,  a friend?  How could you move on when you don't know  what happened to your baby?<br />Will you survive the experience?  Will your  marriage survive?  How about the other children?  They need to live their  lives.  They have to have your support.  Can you be there for them without  always thinking about the missing baby?  Can you celebrate birthdays with  joy? How about Christmas?<br />Then, as months turn into years, you watch how  other family members seem to be moving on.  They now laugh and smile and  look forward to tomorrow.  Do you hate them?  Do you choke down your anger  that they have moved on?  Have they, god forbid, forgotten your lost  child?<br />Will you ever get over this?  Or, the question really is, will you  ever not keep reliving THAT day, when everything went so wrong?  If only  you did this, did that.. ....will you ever stop the replay that goes over  and over in your mind?   Will you hate your spouse because he has coped  better than you?<br />Will you hold the older child (so very young himself at  the time) responsible forever for not  watching his brother better?<br />Will  you ever forgive yourself?  And then forgive the compounded sins you assume  as every day passes?<br />And so the author presents the truth behind the  inconceivable.  In a novel brave enough to follow the aftermath of a  toddler kidnapping, she explores the turmoil a family goes through as the  tragedy unfolds before them all.  Ironically, they are called &quot;the  survivors &quot; of the kidnapping.  What could be furthur from the truth?   <br /> The reality of trying to deal with  these unresolved questions  ultimately takes it's toll.   This novel explores the psychological turmoil  of a family experiencing an event that is judged as one of the most heinous  crimes possible.  You can not help but hope and pray that they all get out  of the deep end of the ocean.	2000-07-17
US	51740940	R3SD97GGSEHF67	0912078693	919748238	Period	Books	5	26	31	N	N	Break the ice with humor	I am so sad to see this book is out of print, but I will still recommend  it because the book  became a wonderful tool to break the ice of informing  young girls on the facts of life.<br />While I have always been very open with  my girls, it helps to let them have some private time with a book to learn  about menstuation.  This book offers so much informtion pertinent to what  they need to know, but is presented in such a delightful way, that  questions were easily asked and answered.   The book features drawings and  short bursts of questions and answers.  The answers are in depth enough,  yet can still facilitate furthur exploring between mother and daughter. The  humor involved is appropriate and lightens the subject matter with respect.   Truly a helpful book from adolescents and mothers alike.	2000-07-15
US	51740940	RWONCZF2SI1SR	1567313264	248273968	The Complete Tracker The Tracks, Signs and Habits of North American Wildlife	Books	5	20	22	N	N	an illustration about what you step on in the woods!	Seriously, Mr. Mc Dougall has put together an informative book about the art of tracking.  I gave this book to my wildlife biologist husband and he gave it a thumb's up which is worthy of 5 stars.<br />For a lay person such as  myself, I have learned so much from the handy, transportable book.  We  spend alot of time outdoors, and I enjoy pulling out  our various compact  resource books to enhance the experience.  This book is appropriate for all  levels of tracker interest and certainly goes into more information than  simply identifying scat.  The book offers at least 80 drawings to assist in  track identification of approximately 45 species of wildlife.  You will  gain knowledge as to age of scat (when was the animal here)  terraine  conditions, habit details, behavior, and potential for danger to humans.  The guide is perfect for hiker, hunter and nature enthusiast. This is a  great time of year (summer vacation) to promote more than campfire  s'mores..bring this book along with you on your next outdoor adventure and  spark true appreciation for what surrounds you. (and what you unknowingly  trample on!)	2000-07-15
US	51740940	R2YIN47C1910M3	069620780X	304823389	2001 Cross Stitch Designs : The Essential Reference Book	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	Will entice you to stitch, stitch, stitch!	I have found this book to be perfect for my needs and so far has come through for me with every project.  The very colorful designs are represented well, and there is a broad range that should be current for  many years to come. I have this book in my library, and found it  interesting that my friends are immediately attracted to it - probably  because of the beautiful, colorful cover.   It has promoted interest in  some of these friends to take up the   art of stitchery.   I would have to  say, it did more to inspire their interest in  cross stitching than my   words of encouragement. Basically, a beautiful, broad base selection that  is useful for many levels of skill.	2000-07-15
US	51740940	R3QUWB7JM9XCSE	1566471702	345354844	Hawaii's Floral Splendor	Books	5	11	11	N	N	More than a floral arrangement book	I realize not everyone going to Hawaii is ultimately fascinated by knowing more about their floral species.  But, if you were, or if you were prompted to know more about it, this is the book for you.<br />Coming from the  mainland, where these flowers are usually only seen in luxurious hotel  lobbies, one is enchanted with the abundance of these magnificent beauties.  Whether in arrangements or growing naturally in the Hawaiian lands, they  are simply unbelievable is their uniqueness.  This book details the species  and provides the reader with more than flower arranging possibilities.   <br />The author, Dr. Kepler,  is an environmental consultant specializing in  Hawaii and the Pacific.  Therefore,  the end result of this lovely book is  to gain knowledge of the culture, name origins,  ethnobotany, medicinal  uses,  history, flowering seasons, pollination, and ecology of each flower.   Comparing what this book offers with the other available books (in Hawaii)  there was no contest  that for the money this was a better deal.<br />Even  more wonderful, was that the photographs were so beautiful and detailed, we  were able to utilize them in the making of a tile portrait of 4 famous  Hawaiin flowers when we got home.	2000-07-15
US	51740940	R2VR4CHA7G4FSK	0553573527	504179075	Empire of the Ants	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Great fun, insectology and science fiction combined	I admit that after watching my kid's ant farm, my interest in the life of the ant led me to various research books, and inevitably to this book.  Who could not admire this tiny insect's social structure after learning more  about them and spending hours watching them interact in a large ant farm.   Soon, we began capturing ant colonies and adding males, and hoping to find  a queen, which alas, we never did.<br />This book was recommended to me  throught Amazon when I searched for furthur information about ants.  Not  sure what to expect, I bought the book and to my delight really enjoyed it.   <br />It is one of the more unique stories I have ever read, and probably not  a story that would work for everyone.  I feel you would enjoy this book  more if you are a fan of the insect and nature world.  You can appreciate  the research the author put into the novel, and I really came away with a  higher respect for ants and the ant world in general.  The story is a  stretch in the imagination, which is what makes it so fun.  I have read  other reviews where some readers are annoyed that it wasn't a perfect  scientific representation of the insect.  For me, it was close enough and  spurned my whole family's interest furthur in learning more about them.   For the most part, we just sat back and really had fun reading this book  and wondering what would it be like to be an ant.	2000-07-13
US	51740940	R3DKOPHTO4T04R	0446675059	775003712	The Honk and Holler Opening Soon	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	**Honk**if you love this book!	I guarantee you will  never pass by a road side cafe, complete with the typical  neon sign, and not recall this very wonderful story from Billie Letts.<br />Once again, Ms. Letts captures a slice of Americana with vanilla  ice cream on the side. Her story involves very unique characters that  literally fall out of cars and trucks on the door step of The Honk and  Holler (Opening Soon).<br />The cafe has been open and is central to the town  it serves.  The sign is an error which has subjected the owner to more  teasing than any one should have to take.  But, it works in Caney Paxton's  favor, for as the owner he has benefited from the notoriety of the mistake.  Unfortunately, he really doesn't appreciate the up side of the down side.   <br />Caney lives with a sense of failure. He is a Viet Nam vet and suffered a  serious injury which has turned his world upside down into a right side up  wheel chair.  He vacillates between feeling sorry for himself and down  right angry, not to mention, hopeless and spiritless.  He goes through the  motions of the very demanding responsibilities of  running the cafe and  eventually allows himself to be bound mentally and physically to the   boundary of the cafe.  Shielding himself behind the responsibilities of the  cafe management never allow him to recognize how fearful of life this once  very strong and courageous man has become.<br />Together with Molly O,  described as a &quot;mother hen&quot;  and senior waitress, they  encounter  a unique cast of characters landing on the doorstep of the Honk and Hollar  begging for jobs and temporary refuge.  The assortment of people literally  change the life and world of Caney.  When the door swings open, and it is  not a customer,  Caney  doesn' t realize,  but he  is in for a world of  change and challenge. <br />Lucky for us, we are along for the ride.	2000-07-12
US	51740940	ROKHMXS7L04K4	0446675059	775003712	The Honk and Holler Opening Soon	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	**Honk**if you love this book!	I guarantee you will  never pass by a road side cafe, complete with the typical  neon sign, and not recall this very wonderful story from Billie Letts.<br />Once again, Ms. Letts captures a slice of Americana with vanilla  ice cream on the side. Her story involves very unique characters that  literally fall out of cars and trucks on the door step of The Honk and  Holler (Opening Soon).<br />The cafe has been open and is central to the town  it serves.  The sign is an error which has subjected the owner to more  teasing than any one should have to take.  But, it works in Caney Paxton's  favor, for as the owner he has benefited from the notoriety of the mistake.  Unfortunately, he really doesn't appreciate the up side of the down side.   <br />Caney lives with a sense of failure. He is a Viet Nam vet and suffered a  serious injury which has turned his world upside down into a right side up  wheel chair.  He vacillates between feeling sorry for himself and down  right angry, not to mention, hopeless and spiritless.  He goes through the  motions of the very demanding responsibilities of  running the cafe and  eventually allows himself to be bound mentally and physically to the   boundary of the cafe.  Shielding himself behind the responsibilities of the  cafe management never allow him to recognize how fearful of life this once  very strong and courageous man has become.<br />Together with Molly O,  described as a &quot;mother hen&quot;  and senior waitress, they  encounter  a unique cast of characters landing on the doorstep of the Honk and Hollar  begging for jobs and temporary refuge.  The assortment of people literally  change the life and world of Caney.  When the door swings open, and it is  not a customer,  Caney  doesn' t realize,  but he  is in for a world of  change and challenge. <br />Lucky for us, we are along for the ride.	2000-07-12
US	51740940	R3O944BIRTXOCO	0345423879	131261277	Candy: A Novel of Love and Addiction	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The real story of the highs and lows of heroin	The unnamed narrator will provide the reader with an absolute up front, real and raw depiction of what life is like on heroin.  There are no apologies, he is brutally honest with you.  He falls in love with Candy, a  beautiful girl that becomes curious about the drug as she watches him use.   Believing  he must share the experience,   he indulges her curiosity and  she falls in love with him and heroin.  Together they enter the life of  serious addiction.  Talk about highs and lows...<br />Luke Davies writes an  insightful, powerful novel  that anyone can appreciate. This is a unique  opportunity to try and understand how this can happen and what takes place  when it does.  Mr. Davies takes the secrecy out of the disease and allows  us to see what has been for so long taboo. This is not easy subject matter,  and some people may be put off by the content. This is a thorough exposure  of a heroin addict's world.  You can not imagine what they have to go  through to maintain their habit.  They scam, they steal and they do things  they never believed they would ever do. It is revealing, funny, sensitive  and maddening. Events occur that only happen because of their addiction,  and they remain helpless to it. They make promises to quit, they want to  quit, they try to quit, but they continue a spiral that is out of control.  Everything changes but everything stays the same.   Eventually they each  must face the reality of sobriety, for as everyone knows, what goes up must  eventually come down.	2000-07-11
US	51740940	R3DBEU37JADCC2	0671544624	497426773	Coroner at Large	Books	2	21	23	N	N	Interesting theories of past unresolved deaths	One must appreciate that Dr. Noguchi was at the forefront of forensic medicine around the time of this book, and in that respect he deserves accolades.  In this, his second &quot;coroner&quot; book he assumes a  consultant viewpoint of some famous and mysterious, unresolved deaths.   Some of the more interesting ones are Elvis, the family members of Jeffrey  McDonald, and even Jack the Ripper.  It is interesting to see his  viewpoints, although the novel at this point in time is becoming dated.   Technology is rapidly evolving and resolving more and more questionable  deaths.  We have Mr. Noguchi to thank for promoting the field.	2000-07-11
US	51740940	R3SEMWYK0U02RI	006440711X	879145234	Buffalo Tree, The	Books	4	5	9	N	Y	Juvenile detention through the eyes of  a young inmate	I work in forensic nursing, and presently provide medical care to  adult inmates.  My interest in the novel was to gather understanding of the early  phases of delinquency and apply that knowledge to the repetitive offender  after age 18.  Although this novel is targeted for the young adult, it is  certainly a worthy book for older readers.<br />Adam Rapp writes about a young  kid serving his time in Hamstock, a juvenile detention center that promotes  violence, abuse, negative reinforcement, and a social structure worse than  the kid's home and street situations.  The kids learn quick to be just like  adult cons.  Although many of them have hardened beyond hope, some of them  balance on a fine line of possible rehabilitation.  Sura is one of these  kids, a sensitive, troubled youngster that tries to keep himself and his  bunkmate on top of things and out of trouble.  This is not easy when kids  victimize each other and the administration steals any self respect they  may have left. <br />At night, Sura lies in his bunk staring out the window at  a lifeless tree standing stark and barren outside.   He must take turns  with his bunkmate to stay awake, alert to the possibility of other juvies  slipping into his cell to victimize them.  Night after night he fights  sleep and despair,  counting the days and nights until he is out, but  drawing plans for an escape. He cries like a little boy, but has to fight  like a grown man. It is a situation beyond his years and coping skills, and  he lies there on his bunk in the pitch black dark, forever gazing out at  the buffalo tree.	2000-07-10
US	51740940	R1NTV7Y0F3UEES	0684863251	115640301	SOLE SURVIVOR: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Spare yourself the sexist issues, enjoy the story!	I was so attracted to the previews of this book, I mistakenly bought 2 of them.  The  plot, story line and book cover are all enticing.  I was intrigued by the story focusing on people attempting to be self sufficient  in a harsh yet sensitive environment.  I could see where one depending on  their surroundings for sustenance would be aggressively  protective if that  environment was being threatened.<br />I will be straight up;  the author is  not always sensitive when it comes to the way he handles his women.  He is  condescending and sexist, but, this is in character with an old navy  officer.  Is this appropriate?  Who cares..it is a good story .  Besides,  one could argue that Rosie, the female member of the trio living on this  barren habitat, is quite comfortable  with her sexuality and is comfortable  acting on her sexuality.<br />So, if you can spare yourself the temptation to  force your sexual and sexist issues on this story, you will find yourself  vastly entertained and in for a wonderful adventure.  I loved the story and  wish for a sequel.	2000-07-07
US	51740940	RQBT8YAPPQGUW	0140272100	619200138	Vanished	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	An intense drama	How does one attempt to relate to you how engrossing this story is?  There are some strong emotions and issues going on with this story.  Briefly, the story revolves around a young female con-artist, Dottie, who by chance (and  only chance) happens upon a slow witted man, Aubrey Wallace.  Aubrey has a  (bitter) wife and family of his own, but is constantly berated and  harrassed by  her. Aubrey and Dottie link up in a freak meeting and he is  literally overwhelmed..from that moment on he is under her control and she  takes every advantage of it.  A young toddler, Cannie, gets snatched right  out of her own house and from under her distracted mother. Suddenly, the  toddler finds herself a new mother and father. Her new mother is but an  immature, self-centered child herself and only took the child for use as a  smoke screen to avoid her past.  For mentally challenged Aubrey, his heart  rules his head in many instances, and he genuinely grows to love and adore  Cannie, as Cannie grows to love him and believes both of them to be her  parents.  A child's allegiance is strong, and this bond introduces  disastrous consequences. Years pass as they remain homeless and always  trying to keep one step ahead of detection by the law.  Their life is  pathetic and heart wretching.  As the situtions become more complicated,  Aubrey struggles with right and wrong, love and abuse.  All the time you  are reading, you know at some point the deception has to end.  The ending  is a surprise and extremely intense.  You will find yourself torn with  loyalties and attachments on both sides of the issue. Mary McGarry Morris  is brilliant	2000-06-20
US	51740940	R3196CW731F32T	0345346491	189337677	Walking Across Egypt	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	what a recipe!	Get out your bowls, mix well: One humorous 78 year old female, Mattie, who strongly believes that no day should go by without 3 full, solid meals a day, who even in the height of crisis encourages any and all responding  police, neighbors, juvenile delinquents, and her family to just have a  &quot;bite to eat before you go.&quot;  (and they all do!) Nosey paranoid  neighbors who sleep with armed weapons under their pillows and WILL use  them. A dog catcher captivated by free meals and her charming 78 year old  ways. A juvenile delinquent who can't decide to steal her silver, her pound  cake or her heart. Her two unmarried 30 something children, who believe the  worst is happening, Mom is going senile.. An entire church congregation who  must cope with a christian soul going awry.<br />Sit down and enjoy the  results!	2000-06-19
US	51740940	R3AQUH7O03ILCN	0345426606	185548081	The Handyman: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A wanna-be artist finds his real talents	This was an incredibly entertaining book! <br />    The plot is of a discouraged artist, a painter, with dreams of literally changing someone's life through his art work.   He realizes that the odds are against him, but  he cannot deny how strongly he feels for his art and his desire to knock  the socks off the art world.  It would prove something to himself, and also  to his family, who said he would never amount to anything with an art  degree. His father walked out on him when he was young, and he was left  trying to hold his agoraphobic mother together.  The burden was enormous,  and his loose ends became increasingly more disturbing to him when he  realizes that he may indeed, not knock anyone's socks off with his art  work.<br />     Bob, the artist, relocates back in LA, and to make ends meet  before he goes back to art school decides to work as a handyman.  He makes  flyers and posts them all over the city.  The phone calls start rolling in,  and with them are some of the most profound, bizarre and heartbreaking  clients one can imagine.<br />     His strength lies in his soul and in his  art  as he tries to help these people.  The beauty of the novel lies in the  way the story is constructed by Carolyn See.<br />     I admit I skimmed  through the prelude, sure I could return to it when I had more of a grip on  the purpose for it.  I read it in detail at the end, and was  truly  rewarded with the significance.<br />    This is a remarkable, original story  that is sure to delight.  If you need something more deep, read War and  Peace.	2000-06-19
US	51740940	R3S8OJ95VP654V	0380723085	633856845	Durable Goods	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	A durable young woman against the odds	Durable Goods is captured through the words of 12 year old Katie, an army &quot;brat&quot; (but is not a brat in the true sense of the word) living on base with her 18 year old sister and her father, a colonel. Her mother  had died of cancer, and the family remains in a state of limbo, a post  traumatic evisceration in all their lives.  Her father is abusive, and hits  the children, especially the older sister.  Katie learns to look the other  way, just like her mother had to do.<br />This is a tender exposure of a young  girl struggling to make sense of what has happened and make peace with her  father.  Fearing him always, she tries to be like all the other kids, but  never knows when her father will explode.  She learns to dance around his  moods, predict every nuance.  When the stress is too much, she crawls under  her bed and talks to her mother. She  makes up conversations,  often  reciting words her mother used to soothe her. But who is there to protect  her?<br />It may be easy to see this as a simple story, but after you read  this and reflect on it, one can see the resiliency of this remarkable young  character. I hope for a sequel.	2000-06-19
US	51740940	R1HT6YFCWDHEYH	0060183578	264001180	American Pie	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	Don't mistake this for the movie	This was a truly wonderful book and it was full of all the emotions you can expect of a West's fine southern family sagas.  At times it was heartbreaking, especially when recollections of the children die, two  tragically in one day (one of illness and the other in a freak accident  with a bull.)  You will speed through this book and go back to read it  again some day.  I did.	2000-06-13
US	51740940	R3NLVPBD64ZLTQ	0060930187	802369838	The Bell Jar: A Novel (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Still relevant after all these years	Sylvia Plath made a significant contribution to the understanding of mental health with the publication of this book in 1971.  She describes the mental health care that was offered in the 50&quot;s through her novel, The  Bell Jar.  It is widely acknowledged that this was more than a peak into  her personal struggle, but a real reflection of how mental illness comes  down on you, like a bell jar, where everything looks the same outside but  there is pure confusion inside.  This novel of such personal intensity  explores the stages of the disease and the treatments that were available  to her.  It is far more in depth than Girl Interrupted.  Both novels take  on a difficult subject and give it the exposure it needs, which is what is  really important.  A poignant book worthy of continued success.	2000-06-13
US	51740940	R1BCSX51F9W09R	0140174761	989140296	Innocent Darkness: A Novel	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Making a difference	This is an original portrayal of a man that tries to make a difference in the lives of Mexican refugees.  He encounters all types of refugees, the drug addicts, glue-sniffers, prostitutes, children, but the one thing they  have in common is their desperation.  Moved by his own personal tortures,  he risks everything to help them.  In the process, he ends up in a Mexican  prison, which is ironic as he  is trying to help the very people who  imprison him.  Coming from a wealthy family, he uses his resources to  continue his efforts to assist the refugees, only to provoke the wrath of  the town's people who want to halt the never ending influx of illegals.   Trying to assuage his sorrow of his wife and child dying, he embarks on a  mission that complicates and enriches his life.	2000-06-12
US	51740940	R3D0ZMCP79M97F	0060179619	950896668	Capsized: The True Story of Four Men Adrift for 119 Days	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Hope this never happens to you	I am sure most people have a nagging thought when they board  water craft; that the possibility of sinking could occur.  After that thought comes to mind, we attempt to push it to the back, unwilling to contemplate the  horrible scenario. Unfortunately, for these 4 men, the possibility becomes  reality. Even more frightening, this book is a true story. What occurs is a  never ending nightmare and a struggle for survival beyond imagination.   Four men board a trimaran for a pleasure cruise, encounter a gale that  inverts the craft.  They must use all of their physical and mental  resources to cope with the challenges before them.  At first, they hope for  a timely rescue, but as days turn into weeks, they realize that they have  been literally given up for dead.  The book delves into the men's minds and  lives while detailing their heroic attempts to save themselves. They feel  all the emotions of desperate souls and face situations that no man should  have to consider.  This is a gripping account of a terrible accident on the  high seas.  One will conclude this book with one thought, &quot;hope this  never happens to me.&quot;	2000-06-12
US	51740940	R3MRLN2DW3KVGG	0440224624	117143822	The Loop	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Incredible story and characters	This is an adventure worth reading, and the reality is that this book is a great read.  It has everything to keep one entertained, and the beauty of it is how well the story unfolds.  The characters are original and  believable.  The scenery is fantastic, described perfectly that one feels  you are there.  The story probes wildlife issues with sensitivity and  demonstrates that there is no perfect answer to age old problems.  Both  sides of the storyline are allowed to emerge and in the process one will  meet some incredible characters that will stay with you a long time.	2000-06-12
US	51740940	R2JPV04T4XK27I	0380731398	578755254	Blu's Hanging	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Hang in there, the beginning is INTENSE	When a mother dies, a family tries to cope and compensate.  This is the setting brought forth on the Hawaiian island Molokai. The story line comes directly from the children, and the account is heart breaking and  inspirational.  At times, the story dealt with some intense events, and the  anticipation is great as the story evolves and you fear for them all.  But,  the ending is life affirming and well worth the discomfort you are made to  feel by the author's poignant narrative.	2000-06-05
US	51740940	R2Z3FNH0YKFP06	0451184963	179012025	Insomnia	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I couln't sleep for reading, My first King book.	First of all, do not pay attention to all the blubbering about how long this book is.  When a book is good, who cares if it is long?  What an intriguing novel, and probably one of the more original I have ever read. I  loved the way King portrayed the seniors in such a sensitive way.  He truly  got to the heart of their concerns, fears and loves.  This is not really  the typical horror book, so if that puts you off reading it, please do not  let it. I really didn't sleep much, either, for the book was better than  catching those zzzz's!	2000-06-05
US	51740940	R2EVR391OE2L06	0140250964	406498751	Snow Angels: A Novel	Books	5	25	28	N	Y	A masterpiece of writing	This was my first Stewart O'Nan book, which launched me on a mission to buy every book he has ever wrote (of which none will disappoint.)  I appreciated how well O'Nan creates the momentum, a calculated and skilled  accounting of  events in a boy's life, Arthur, that challenges his ability  to accept and move on. He effectively conveys the confusion of  youth when  faced with parental divorce, first love, and the ramifications of being in  the right place and a terrible time to make a grusome discovery. O'Nan sets  up the story in a small Pennsylvannia town, and you feel every ice storm  and foot fall on crunching snow as the adult Arthur comes back to town and  eventually must make peace with himself.	2000-06-05
US	51740940	R9WGN5VTP569E	0060984333	264001180	American Pie: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	You will read this book twice.	This was a truly wonderful book and it was full of all the emotions you can expect of a West's fine Southern family sagas.  At times it was  heartbreaking, expecially when recollections of the children die, two  tragically in one day (one of illness and the other in a freak accident  with a bull).  You will speed through this book and go back to read it  again some day.  I did.	2000-06-05
US	51740940	R11JUB4FHCLBKI	0679746048	92211220	Girl, Interrupted	Books	1	11	21	N	Y	forget this book, read The Bell Jar instead	This is the worst book I have read in ten years.  The highlights of the story are a few freaky recollections of the mental hospital, the typical patient draws pictures on the walls with her stool (this is recounted all  the time in any psych book) and electo-shock therapy.  The very short and  disjointed chapters offer no flow, only an irritating expectation that the  story has to get better pretty soon..after all they made a movie of it!   How they did is beyond me, but I am sure there must be entirely new  dialogue and story line put together for the movie. There just is nothing  here, I hate to disappoint you, but that is the truth.  I can not  understand how this can be construed as a novel, it is so terrible.  It  reads like someones scratchy notes, and never really gives a feeling of the  story coming together.  If you are interested in this type of novel, read  The Bell Jar by Sylvia Plath.	2000-06-05
US	51740940	R3AQPCKLWG2YUR	0380731398	578755254	Blu's Hanging	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Hang in there, the beginning is INTENSE	When a mother dies, a family tries to cope and compensate.  This is the setting brought forth on the Hawaiian island Molokai. The story line comes directly from the children, and the account is heart breaking and  inspirational.  At times, the story dealt with some intense events, and the  anticipation is great as the story evolves and you fear for them all.  But,  the ending is life affirming and well worth the discomfort you are made to  feel by the author's poignant narrative.	2000-06-05
US	51740940	R31DVJ0T23HF8Q	0380732238	815166816	Smack	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	More than a heroin story	Being a forensics nurse, working in correctionals, I am always searching for information about heroin and other drugs.  I was intitially intrigued with this story line as it seemed to represent the beginning of the disease  itself. Heroin is huge now in America, with most of my female inmates  intimately familiar with the drug.  This novel was targeted for Young  Adults, which I have some reservations about.  It romanticized the process  more than I feel is appropriate.  The issue of runaways is important,  however I rarely see them so well taken care of.  Usually they are brutally  exploited, where the characters in this novel were fortunate to fall into  the hands of indivduals that tried to protect them.  There is alot of  content to consider.  This is not a book that relates a huge source of  information about heroin abuse, it is more of a peripheral story of many  social situations affecting youngsters and those that never stop living on  the fringes of danger and decadence.	2000-06-01
US	51740940	RY5JMPHBH51TD	0449217264	432599282	Alaska	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another brilliant accomplishment from Michener	By chance, I brought this book to read on a fishing/camping trip.  I had no idea how captivating it would be to learn the life cycle of a salmon along with the captivating story line Michener never fails to pull off. By  far, this is no simple fishing tale.  It is packed with the richest of  scenes and fascinating characters. My appreciation for the history and  people of Alaska will forever be with me because of this book. There is no  one that can duplicate Michener's literary skills, or even that come close.  Don't let yourself be intimidated by the volume of the novel for the story  is action packed difficult to put down. You will not be disappointed in  Alaska.	2000-06-01
US	51740940	R1I7KVDR95ZP5K	0140263098	443510634	The Names of the Dead	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Stunning, not the usual Viet Nam book	This is not your typical Viet Nam read.  As usual, Stewart O'Nan takes his incredible literary skills to a new dimension.  He portrys the life of a young medic in his first mission in Viet Nam. His experiences are gripping  as you track this vulnerable young kid on the plane there, and eventually  living with the guys in his unit and out on their daily duties.  Included  in the recount of his experiences, is the hell he is going with as he  struggles to adapt and make peace with himself.  I passed this book on to  several friends who were in Viet Nam.  When one of them handed the book  back to me, I asked them what they thought of it.  I got a nod, a silence,  and a choked up stammering response.  It was so good, he couldn't even talk  to me about it yet.  We will talk about it some day, I hope. After a while,  perhaps, when it doesn't seem so real to him. I knew to wait and be  patient.	2000-06-01
US	51740940	R3C744XDWOJ2PL	0140272119	56222440	A Dangerous Woman	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Intensely written, another winner from Morris	This is a truly amazing author.  All of her books have been 5 stars in my opinion.  This novel is so absorbing!  Morris has captured the tortured life of Martha and keeps you riveted to the story through suspense and  compelling honesty.  You will not easily forget this story, but that is  typical of all the books I have read of Ms. Morris's.	2000-06-01
US	51740940	R2JWNRH0DQ985F	0671624938	564160262	Coroner	Books	2	13	14	N	Y	Still unanswered questions	Considering this book, one must understand it was printed in 1983 and tell-all stories were not quite so &quot;in your face&quot; as they can be now.  I did expect, and still would like to hear more about the actual  autopsies in more detail, as it is barely discussed in this book. However,  it is still an interesting accounting of controversial deaths, but will not  answer  those troubling questions most of us still debate. I found the  first chapter about Natalie Wood to be the most enlightening.  She really  fought for her life, but still no one has satisfied the original question  of why she tried to leave the boat in the first place. I must admit that he  did more to elevate the status of forensics than any other individual in  his field.  Maybe Dr. Noguchi will do a more in depth book in the future  and concentrate more on the cases than his troubled political life.	2000-06-01
US	51740940	R2YFEDWUEJA7IC	0684845768	292635793	Coast Road: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sensitively told story	This was a sensitive story involving a mother of two adolescent girls struck down in a car accident in the prime of her life.  The location is Big Sur, and the event involves the reactions of her children, ex-husband,  friends and colleagues as they cope with the ramifications of the  catastrophe.  A well done story dealing with difficult issues.  Highly  recommended.	2000-06-01
US	51740940	RL4SYPEDKXSJ8	0874610338	346500356	Diary of a Sea Captain's Wife: Tales of Santa Cruz Island	Books	4	7	7	N	N	One tough lady, and INCREDIBLE book!	I found this book while waiting to board a transport vessel to camp at Santa Cruz Island.  Being an avid reader, I was immediately attracted to reading the story about a woman who literally camped her entire life on  this island and developed a primitive resort that caught the attention of  early Santa Barbara travelers and the early movie industry moguls.  Ms  Eaton wrote amusing stories of her life with her beloved sea captain  husband.  She never realized that when she married her husband, that she  would leave so much history behind her.  Her husband abandoned his safe  lumber mill job after he built his first boat in the back yard of the tiny  house.  Before long, she abandoned life in Santa Barbara for a bed under  the trees at Santa Cruz Island. At times it was just her and her daughter  for days on end while her husband started a fishing and transport buisness  bringing people out to the island where they fed and bunked them under the  open sky.  Never did she complain about her primitive conditions, actually  she rejoiced in it's simplicity.  I can not say I have ever met any one  like her, she was an incredible woman, and the relationship she had with  her husband and daughter is enviable.  What a lovely book to read while  hiking around Santa Cruz and knowing that not much has changed in the land  now as it was then, thanks to park preservation.  This is a story any one  can enjoy whether you go to the island or not.  I heartily recommend it.	2000-06-01
US	51740940	RLRGT8Z9Y9J6G	0805210040	199584991	Women's Diaries of the Westward Journey	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Hungry for more	A trip to Bodie, California, the incredible ghost town in the Eastern Sierras, sent me on a quest to find everything I could about the life and times of women in the 1840's on.  I was so amazed by the strength of these  women and the hardships they coped with.  It makes modern life with all  it's conveniences nearly obscene in comparison. The diaries demonstrate how  shielded these women kept of their intimate details.  The birth  and  pregnancies were rarely referred to, which is so unfortunate for it would  be fascinating to hear more of their experiences and their feelings of  having multiple life-threatening births. You do not have to be a student to  enjoy this book.	2000-06-01
US	51740940	RZFWMQ6U6MHPB	0140263098	443510634	The Names of the Dead	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Stunning, not the usual Viet Nam book	This is not your typical Viet Nam read.  As usual, Stewart O'Nan takes his incredible literary skills to a new dimension.  He portrys the life of a young medic in his first mission in Viet Nam. His experiences are gripping  as you track this vulnerable young kid on the plane there, and eventually  living with the guys in his unit and out on their daily duties.  Included  in the recount of his experiences, is the hell he is going with as he  struggles to adapt and make peace with himself.  I passed this book on to  several friends who were in Viet Nam.  When one of them handed the book  back to me, I asked them what they thought of it.  I got a nod, a silence,  and a choked up stammering response.  It was so good, he couldn't even talk  to me about it yet.  We will talk about it some day, I hope. After a while,  perhaps, when it doesn't seem so real to him. I knew to wait and be  patient.	2000-06-01
US	51740940	R1E1GXDGAPH21G	0963942964	547404703	Hawaii The Big Island Revealed; The Ultimate Guidebook	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Our &quot;Harriet&quot; Bible to Hawaii	We bought this book in anticipation of our two week trip to the Big Island, and even before we left all of us had read it cover to cover.  We were tempted to visit everywhere, and I can not thank the authors enough  for cutting to the chase on what to see and literally, step by step how to  get there.  (DETAILED instructions! )  We did not set foot out of the door  without our &quot;Harriet&quot; and constantly compared her evaluations  with ours. I am so glad we had a chance to review it BEFORE we left, for  there is just so much to do there, and it helped to have some kind of  familiarity of the locations by the assistance of her descriptions.  The  trip was a huge success, and by no means did we sit by a pool sipping  drinks.  We marched out to the out of the way beaches she recommended and  we were NEVER disappointed!   We were thankful for her very detailed  instructions, and found most of them right on the mark.  Thanks to Harriet,  we discovered all sorts of wildlife, out of the way fantasy beaches and  locations, snorkled the best areas, swam with thousands of fish and  turtles, visited caves, waterfalls, enjoyed the best places to go when  helicoptering, experienced the vast weather changes from the high country,  to Hilo and drier Kona.  I can not wait to go again....but I hope not too  many people follow her directions and spoil the exclusivity of the  experience!	2000-06-01
US	51740940	R2BUGS4M5FX7Q2	0684845768	292635793	Coast Road: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sensitively told story	This was a sensitive story involving a mother of two adolescent girls struck down in a car accident in the prime of her life.  The location is Big Sur, and the event involves the reactions of her children, ex-husband,  friends and colleagues as they cope with the ramifications of the  catastrophe.  A well done story dealing with difficult issues.  Highly  recommended.	2000-06-01
US	51740940	R34YLY7UD6B15P	0874610338	346500356	Diary of a Sea Captain's Wife: Tales of Santa Cruz Island	Books	4	2	2	N	N	One tough lady, and INCREDIBLE book!	I found this book while waiting to board a transport vessel to camp at Santa Cruz Island.  Being an avid reader, I was immediately attracted to reading the story about a woman who literally camped her entire life on  this island and developed a primitive resort that caught the attention of  early Santa Barbara travelers and the early movie industry moguls.  Ms  Eaton wrote amusing stories of her life with her beloved sea captain  husband.  She never realized that when she married her husband, that she  would leave so much history behind her.  Her husband abandoned his safe  lumber mill job after he built his first boat in the back yard of the tiny  house.  Before long, she abandoned life in Santa Barbara for a bed under  the trees at Santa Cruz Island. At times it was just her and her daughter  for days on end while her husband started a fishing and transport buisness  bringing people out to the island where they fed and bunked them under the  open sky.  Never did she complain about her primitive conditions, actually  she rejoiced in it's simplicity.  I can not say I have ever met any one  like her, she was an incredible woman, and the relationship she had with  her husband and daughter is enviable.  What a lovely book to read while  hiking around Santa Cruz and knowing that not much has changed in the land  now as it was then, thanks to park preservation.  This is a story any one  can enjoy whether you go to the island or not.  I heartily recommend it.	2000-06-01
US	51740940	R1EH8KH9JYZ8KR	0874610729	867824363	California's Channel Islands: 1001 questions answered	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Perfect Reference Book for the Channel Islands	I purchased this book recently while waiting to board ship to transport my family and I to Channel Islands for a much anticipated first time camping and backpacking vacation. The Islands are located off the coast of  California and after 20 years of living within viewing distance of these  beautiful islands, we were finally on our way to explore them.  This is not  a vacation destination complete with hotels and room service.  On the  contrary, when you visit the islands, you pack everything in and out,  including your water and garbage. It is a visit that must be carefully  organized and we spent considerable time loading all our gear and stuffing  our backpacks to the point of exploding.    We each must have been  backpacking over 50 lbs, and when I saw this book in the Island Packers  office, I knew another 16 ounces was the last thing I needed to carry on my  back.  But, it was obvious to all of us, that it was a fortunate purchase  for it did precisely what it said it would do -answer questions. You can  not go to the Channel Islands and not get  caught up in it's incredible  beauty and history and not want to know everything you can about them.  As  we camped and hiked, we referred often to it. The book was an easy  resource, as it broke down each island and discussed in a question type  format essential vital statistics pertinent to each island. It very  efficiently focused on specific topics relating to the wildlife, past  history, topography, weather, and plant life. The questions were answered  in an interesting format which lead easily to furthur researching if  needed.  As a primer to the islands, I felt it succeeded very well, as it  informed the first time visitor how to get to their destinations and the  paperwork you need to get there. It was also accompanied by pictures and  maps. I enjoyed that the book was not a typical dry travel manual, but  turned out to be a nicely coordinated travel, resource and reference book  to the Channel Islands.  Oh, and it fit quite well in my backpack after  all!	2000-06-01
US	51740940	R2BP8G48639H3D	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	2	6	10	N	N	not a rave	How could I resist a book with such rave reviews? Unfortunately, I didn't fall in line to be among those of you gushing over this novel.  After the first 50 odd pages I revisited the site and re-evaluated my interpretations  of customer's reviews.   Had I missed something?  Yes, there were a few  skeptics in the reviews and those that just did not &quot;get her&quot;.   Refusing to believe I am someone that can not &quot;get&quot; Bridget, I  perservered, determined to find that missing link that would catapult me  into a raving reviewer. Around the middle of the book I realized that it  had improved somewhat, but I had yet to have  huge guffaws, loud, raucous  laughter and the temptation to down a bottle of scotch and smoke a pack of  fags.(In America, that could be interpreted as something different  entirely.)  Bridgit is fun, and I can see her in most women, but I  continued to anticipate hilarity beyond belief.  In the end, I was relieved  for her and wished her much happiness and more laughs.  I do appreciate  that she thrilled so many of the readers out there.  When I get that kind  of response from a book, I can not help but feel ecstatic.That is why we  read, to anticipate that possiblility that the next book will edge itself  into that category of being so excellent one is moved to exhult it's  success.  I almost have to laugh at myself, for I have a  &quot;Bridget&quot; type comment to make.. I feel nearly guilty that I do  not agree with most of the customer reviewers that this was the one of the  best books I have ever read.  It simply was not.	2000-05-31
US	51740940	R1OPMJF10EB2BH	0375700293	932067568	Bringing Out the Dead	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	Never say die	Working in emergency rooms as a nurse for over 20 years led me to consider this book.  I usually do not care to read true life ER type books..why do I want to read about what I see day in and day out?  But, this is a novel  which just so happens to be as authentic as it can be without being some ER  person's diary.  The frame of reference is factual.  The addition of  fiction is perfect and original.  Finally a story that reflects the  sacrifices many of us encounter, perhaps not to such extremes, but  sacrifices none the less. In such  a story, Joe Connelly literally  demonstrates all those people &quot;lost&quot; in the hands of emergency  personnel, and the realization that in our minds we carry them around with  us always, ever reconstructing events, pondering what-ifs, and finally  having to give up the ghost..even taking their spirits to bed with us so we  can at last get some rest.  A brilliant, gutsy novel.	2000-05-31
US	51740940	R3O38NVWOYDYMX	0375700293	932067568	Bringing Out the Dead	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Never say die	Working in emergency rooms as a nurse for over 20 years led me to consider this book.  I usually do not care to read true life ER type books..why do I want to read about what I see day in and day out?  But, this is a novel  which just so happens to be as authentic as it can be without being some ER  person's diary.  The frame of reference is factual.  The addition of  fiction is perfect and original.  Finally a story that reflects the  sacrifices many of us encounter, perhaps not to such extremes, but  sacrifices none the less. In such  a story, Joe Connelly literally  demonstrates all those people &quot;lost&quot; in the hands of emergency  personnel, and the realization that in our minds we carry them around with  us always, ever reconstructing events, pondering what-ifs, and finally  having to give up the ghost..even taking their spirits to bed with us so we  can at last get some rest.  A brilliant, gutsy novel.	2000-05-31
US	51740940	RMRLNRDF8MVO0	0140276432	659784320	War Brides	Books	3	13	14	N	Y	A women's war story, the true heroes	This is a unique story of Australian women who by chance meeteligible and vulnerable American service men while the men arestationed in Australia during WWII.  Each couple meet and hastily march to marriage encouraged and motivated by the events and times at the end of the war.  Despite family members expressing objection, the story centers on 3 young women who take the plunge and board ship for America to start their lives with the husbands they only knew for the briefest time.  Each of the women are different and what motivates their destiny becomes the essence of the story line.  One must remember that during this time in women's history, a wife was expected to place their husband first, no matter the personal sacrifice.  For all these women, the sacrifices are so costly, they are each pushed to the edge and are challenged in a foreign country to make the best of their situation.  A somewhat slow novel in the beginning, the story developes and holds the reader to the end.	2000-05-31
US	51740940	REIBQ997OB77G	0804108293	177229232	Crazy Ladies	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Crazy ladies is buried treasure	I dare you to read the first chapter and not continue. A smartly constructed story that rivets you immediately has been accomplished with West's novel.  As the family branches out, the story winds deliciously  around these very original characters. Most intriguing is the author's use  of gardening as a constant background in which the plot moves along in  harmony with the seasons.  Just as important to the plot is to pay  attention to what kind of plants are growing, who is planting and where  they are being planted. (Note those are zinnias on the book cover! )  The  characters are not all especially crazy, in the real sense. Each of them  defines crazy in their own way; basically struggling with life's cards as  they unfold on the table.  A truly unforgettable story about some of the  most remarkable women you will ever meet.  A perfect summer novel to enjoy  in your own garden....	2000-05-31
US	51740940	R1BHO91LQ0WA1V	0393319369	475769761	Oyster: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	A book that deserves taking your time with	This is a challenging book. One needs to linger over the author's words and allow one's imagination to be strung along willingly.  If you fight the temptation to speed read, you will discover the prize of her writing skills and the gift of this story. The story evolves through real life and the   remembrances of the characters. At times it feels hallucinogenic, but what  wouldn't in 120 degree Australian heat and the outback isolation?  The  story is very unique. There is no need to describe the plot as it is so  well discussed in these other reviews.  Indeed, the reviews were helpful  enough to guide me through the beginning of the book until I got used to  the author's rhythm. Eventually, the pieces begin to fit, and just like the  unsuspecting visitor, I discover just what the hell is going on with  Oyster.	2000-04-24
US	51740940	R1GAQKF58B65RE	0679746048	92211220	Girl, Interrupted	Books	1	14	25	N	Y	A Story Written Before, (and better!)	This is quite possibly one of the worst books I have read in a long time.  Unfortunately, this story has been brilliantly written before by so many more authors; ( The Bell Jar, by Sylvia palth, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's  Nest, etc.)  I am not unsympathetic to her story, I am just very  disappointed with her interpretation and her sperficial accounting.  The  &quot;highlights&quot; of her experiences are events that have been  portrayed by  many other authors and novels leaving the storyline falling  flat and repetitive.  The movie surely must have had to be re-invented for  there is truly nothing there in the book.  I have never before taken a book  back, and this is the first one I ever considered doing so.  If this  subject interests you, as it did I, consider reading the other books  mentioned for a vastly more rewarding experience.  I am, however, giving  Ms. Kaysen another chance with Far Afield.  Hopefully it will prove to be  more satisfying.	2000-03-29
US	51740940	R1EVWAW0XEIZF8	1573227749	593444393	The Tesseract	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Rich collision of characters and their stories	The Tesseract offers a rich and diverse assortment of characters that collide in a novel that is original and intense.  The setting in Manila provides the location whereby fate brings them together in the climax of  the story, yet Alex Garland expertly weaves their past and futures  intricately throughout the novel to grip the reader in a book not easy to  put down.  I anticipate more unique work from Garland.	2000-03-29
US	51740940	RFN5MHLXU6GNR	0805061479	277559952	A Prayer for the Dying: A Novel	Books	5	50	53	N	N	Riveting novel from a truly gifted author	This is a truly gifted author.  I became familiar with him when I read Snow Angels, and since then I have purchased nearly every book he has written.  Each novel is an original piece.  This novel, Prayer for the  Dying is another stunning acomplishment.  He takes the reader to post Civil  War Wisconsin.  His first person accounting is riveting as he takes you  into the heart, mind and soul of Jacob Hansen, town sheriff, undertaker and  pastor.  Add to this odd mixture of occupations a devasting diptheria  plague that threatens the town's human and animal population.  A gentle,  loving and spiritual family man, he must make horrendous decisions  involving the township.  While tradgedy befalls the town, he must cope with  the possibility that he may have infected his beloved wife and baby  daughter after undertaking the initial diptheria cases.  Stewart O'Nan sets  a thoroughly researched scene for the reader.  You will walk through his  surroundings and feel yourself in every step he takes, while you explore  all his thoughts that challenge his faith and own mortality.  An absolute  masterpiece.	2000-03-28
US	51740940	R28CALA79LF8C3	0449908747	49896537	Barn Blind: A Novel	Books	4	16	17	N	Y	More than a horse story	This book literally haunted me.   I found myself constantly thinking about the characters days after I finished  it.  It is a quiet kind of story, packed with repressed emotions, and somehow the ending felt cathartic  although not immediately so.  I could see chaos in this large rambling  horse farm family and I could put together the events with a clarity I did  not feel the moment I finished the book.  It took awhile, and slowly these  people took more shape and I began to understand more and feel the story's  latent ending. I was intrigued by the family dynamics, the dominant  mother/trainer, the passive, ever-loving, forgiving father, and each child  responding in the only way their personalities would allow to the intensity  of their demanding mother.  The end was powerful. I reflected on the father  holding his head in his hands as he realized there was no end in sight to  his wife's sovereignity and determination to carry on at any cost.  I crave  a sequel, yet I already know it.  It is the epitome of barn blind.	2000-03-21
US	51740940	R2AFGBZSJLJ6GK	0802116272	312436665	The Undiscovered Country	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Undiscovered sacrifices	This is a story about a young family struggling with inter-personal issues who convince themselves that a self-funded expedition to do research on  parasites in the back country of Papua New Guinea will enrich humanity and themselves in the process.  The warning signs are all there to re-evaluate  this effort; the clingy, uncomforted pre-schooler, the moody, unfulfilled  woman, and the conflicted man that chooses not to see anything that causes  him discomfort. The warning signs become symptoms as the young child runs  wild with the natives and has been found with suspicious rashes around her  genitals while her behavior becomes more and more abnormal.  But, the  couple plug on, convinced that they are making some enormous contribution  to humanity and their efforts will somehow smooth over all the sacrifices  they are incurring.  The undiscovered country is not the place to try and  find yourself and your life's work, as this beautiful tale demonstrates.	2000-03-06
US	51740940	R2SSCQLX0VGAT8	0449911004	777164082	Patty Jane's House of Curl (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	head and shoulders above the rest	I was attracted to this book because I thought it was an original idea to set a story around a beauty salon, well known to be &quot;libraries of gossip.&quot;  But, it was a nice surprise to find the story revolving around the owners who happen to be sisters that support each other through  an entire lifetime of shampoos and curls. I appreciated that most of the  men were really decent and worked with the women to make the most of what  they had.The ending had more than a few surprises. The characters were rich  and delightful, and I recommend a nice fire in the fireplace, a soft  comfortor and a glass of wine with this novel for a perfect evening.	2000-03-06
US	51740940	R3NHP6IE7E91LI	0452280362	289489832	Dreaming Southern	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A  comedy disaster cruise through Highway 66	The 1950's come back from all directions as we follow this disaster on wheels trip to California. At the wheel is the maternal drama queen who can barely turn the wheel of the car, much less pull a trailer loaded with everything they own.  Her main concern is parking the car where she won't  have to back up because she doesn't know how to negotiate the trailer.   That pretty much explains her entire personality....this woman never backs  up to re-evaluates situations.  She goes plunging head long into situations  that continue to roller-coaster her into one mess after another. And,  therein lies the fun of this book. I loved recalling the names of the  1950's sundries they used and discarded along route 66, including the names  of outdated cafes and gas stations.  If you can recall sibling torture in  the back seat of your parents old ford on a trip across country, this book  is for you.	2000-03-06
US	51740940	R2HIGV8B9H5J1D	1573226521	117734468	The Beach	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Nirvana meets Viet nam	From this book's first pages, this story takes you out of the comfort of your home and slams you into a foreign country on a bus to god knows where.You have to admire someone with courage enough to shed the security of the western life-style and subject themselves to whatever comes down the  pike. But this is what a small, select group of young adults have done.  What they found is the ultimate beach on a secluded island in Thailand.  Basically, only a select few have ever been granted access to the island,  it's location is fiercely guarded.  A young man, Richard, stumbles into a  situation where the island's location is mapped out on a homemade crayola  colored drawing.  Intrigued, he shares the map with another french couple  and from that moment on their lives are at risk.  The novel reads crisply,  shockingly and brutally realistic.  There are near-drowning scenes that  felt so intense I had to stop reading.  Rarely have I read a novel of this  caliber, where the author writes on so many different levels.  The Beach is  an exquisite novel, and when the author describes what the secret beach  looks like it, one can truly see  nirvana.  This is a place many of us go  to in our dreams, but what happens to these kids is no dream.	2000-03-06
US	51740940	R3OVT502P8U16F	042516246X	681910708	Bitterroot Landing	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Allow yourself to read some raw writing	Incest, sexual abuse, child abuse, neglect and mental illness are not attractive issues.  Hence, an author, courageous enough to write hard-ball reality places in your hands a story that produces emotions probably never  entertained by most of the population.  I choose to read stories that will  move me and I feel it is a gift to experience a novel that challenges me to  regroup my thoughts and evaluate concepts differently.  Her stories are raw  and spiritual.  Do not be put off by the simplistic cry-babies who feel  grossed out by some body fluids.  When you are reduced to the level this  young woman was, you focus on the only things you have left and attempt to  re-organize. Most people have never had to experience this kind of  disintegration.  I work in a woman's prison providing medical care and this  novel has given me insight into the self-destructive/ self-mutilation   issues I see from 80% of the population.  I can understand how they cut,  inject and tatoo  themselves to release the pain and the poisons, just as  Jael did when she was at her most vulnerable.  But, fortunately for Jael  she allows herself to feel her strength and her spiritual nature guides her  to the doors of recovery. Allow yourself to read some really raw writing.   You will be moved to Bitterroot Landing.	2000-03-04
US	51740940	R2RKSYOZFLWIJE	0380722704	143588818	Charms for the Easy Life	Books	5	77	79	N	Y	Don't be misled by the negative reviews!	This book has more substance to it than some of the readers have recognized.  If midwives and stories about medicine in the early to mid  1900's interest you, try this story. Or, if exploring mother-daughter  relationships that are positive and make you feel good, try this story. If  you love learning how people who love each other interact and take care of  each other, read this. If you have ever longed for someone that could have  the insight to tell you what is best for you and have a riotous sense of  humor, read this.  If you enjoy a read that takes a difficult time (WWII)  and weaves it through the lives of some incredible women, try this story.  You can make it very complex, if you must, or simply take the story as it  is, and as it was meant to be. You will find yourself thinking back to  these characters often, and wishing for that charming life that made living  with each other easy.  When you have that, you just may have  what it takes  for an &quot;easy&quot; life.  This book can help in the meantime.	1999-12-03
US	51740940	R1Q663H6O5E2EJ	0140065504	673022087	Water Music (Penguin Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	5	48	54	N	Y	This book explodes with rich characters and adventure!	TC Boyle challenges the reader to &quot;hold on&quot; through the chapters as you race along the rivers and lives of this story. I was enchanted, humored. frightened, anxious and enriched with this experience.  Not only  did  I burn out quite a few flashlight batteries reading late into the  night trying not to disturb my husband, but realized I needed to find a  more advanced dictionary/thesaurus to keep up with Mr. Boyle's remarkable  command of vocabulary.  Great fun!	1999-11-17
