US	51749393	R1BTIKYUGJ55UW	1594200211	691793905	Public Enemies: America's Greatest Crime Wave and the Birth of the FBI, 1933-34	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Living On The Edge	Author Bryan Burrough has provided us with over 500 pages detailing the two year time period from 1933--1934 covering the depression era bandits that terrorized primarily the midwestern United States.  The book covers the likes of Dillinger, Pretty Boy Floyd, Baby Face Nelson, Bonnie and Clyde, and others in a chronological order in regard to time.  This necessitates jumping from one outlaw to another, but I did not find this to be bothersome.  I would prefer that method as opposed to taking the complete \\"career\\" of each character.  Burrough states these characters led to the formation of the F.B.I.  Jealously ran rampant with J. Edgar Hoover at the helm since the country lionized Melvin Purvis after bringing down John Dillinger.  Purvis wasn't bashful about giving interviews regarding the part he played bringing down these thugs.  Hoover seethed at his former protege's publicity.  Hoover wanted no agent to get any individual credit.  However, Hoover, had no quams about having the public focus on him as the man who was responsible for bringing down these gangsters.  All these two bit outlaws shared one thing in common.  They always had to be on the alert to being discovered and caught.  Living in drafty apartments, sleeping in cars, bathing in rivers, having their bullet wounds treated by questionable doctors, and a desire to have a normal family relationship that normal people enjoyed all were part of the lifestyle all these shady characters had in common.  This book is a lengthy read, but it is well worth your time if this part of American history is of interest to you.	2005-10-13
US	51749393	R2H9WUX6HYRXZG	0060590025	125738650	Paddy Whacked: The Untold Story of the Irish-American Gangster	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Cornucopia of Diverse Characters	The author, T. J. English, has done a thorough job in telling the story of gangsterdom from the 1850's into the 1980's.  Chicago's Lords of the Levee, \\"Hinky Dink\\" and \\"Bathhouse John\\", and an assortment of shady characters brought on by passage of the 18th Amendment in both Chicago and New York none of whom trusted one another make up a colorful but infamous history.  Of special interest to me is the telling of how Joseph Kennedy persuaded several mob members to back his son John for president even though so many of them had come to despise brother Robert due to his badgering of mob members.  Sam Giancana, who Robert Kennedy chided by saying, \\"I thought only little girls giggled, Mr. Giancana?\\" was convinced to support John for president only to find that the much despised Robert was then named attorney general.  The mob felt they had been doublecrossed and now they had to \\"cut off the head, not the tail\\", John, not Robert.  Robert always felt responsible for his brother's assassination due to his relentless pressure on the mob.  Also of special interest is the section on Frank Sheeran who tells his story of his assassination of his \\"best friend\\" Jimmy Hoffa.  This is told in part from the book entitled \\"I Heard You Paint Houses?\\"  Sheeran was along for the ride to keep Hoffa at ease since he felt safe knowing Sheeran was along.  Hoffa failed to realize when the time for one's demise came your best friend was very likely to be involved.  Sheeran justified the action by saying if he hadn't taken part Sheeran himself would be hit.  There were a couple of chapters I glanced over, but the infamous history that is the mob is certainly made up of a number of diverse and pitiful characters.  Even if you've read stories of many of these individuals it is interesting to see what another author has to say about them.	2005-08-30
US	51749393	R2HALQ7QZVWLYE	0813536006	897282723	The Greatest Ballpark Ever: Ebbets Field and the Story of the Brooklyn Dodgers	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	A Book Both Historic and Nostalgic	If you are a baseball fan interested in the game's history you will enjoy this effort on the Brooklyn Dodgers and their history.  Whether they were called the Dodgers, Superbas, or Robins the Brooklyn version of the team has cemented its place in baseball history.  Author Bob McGee provides us with a detailed account of the team's history dating from the opening of Ebbets Field in 1913 until their infamous move following the 1957 season orchestrated by a man who's name will not appear here.  Some readers may find they are being told more about the team than they care to know.  However, if you are a fan of baseball history this will not be a problem for you.  The team's inability to win a World Series haunted the team throughout their history from their first Series appearance in 1916 until that glorious year of 1955.  At one period of time the team was nicknamed  the Daffiness Boys, an early version of the New York Mets of the early 1960's.  The best was saved for last with the arrival of the post war Boys of Summer in the early 1950's who were immortalized in literature by Roger Kahn in 1971.  Several pictures also add to the book.  One, in particular, of the inside of the Ebbets Field Rotunda, I had never seen before.  If you remember the Brooklyn Dodgers, I do, or if you were a fan of the team you will enjoy this book.  As I said in my title, it is at once both historic and nostalgic.	2005-08-25
US	51749393	R3MF174XKYT5ZX	158261976X	324577912	Jerome Holtzman on Baseball	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Stories of the Men Who Write the Stories	The much respected Chicago sports writer and baseball historian Jerome Holtzman has treated us to 209 pages of information on several baseball writers over the past century.  Several of these writers I have heard of before, but Holtzman provides us with anecdotes of men such as John Kieran, Stanley Woodward, Paul Gallico, Hugh Fullerton, Charlie Einstein, and several others.  Einstein, editor of the Four Fireside baseball anthologies, put together a baseball library in itself with these four treasures.  Included in one of them is Frank Sullivan's piece on \\"The Cliche Expert Testifies on Baseball\\" which Holtzman has included in part.  Included in the chapter on Hugh Fullerton is Joe Jackson's confession regarding his part in the crooked 1919 World Series.  George Phair was one who penned poetic verse in his stories such as \\"Walter Alston was a myth.  And then they gave us Mayo Smith.  But now they've got us over a barrel.  Who in the hell is Kirby Farrell?\\"  Who is the only first baseman to record three assists in one inning?  The answer, surprisingly enough, is \\"Dr. Strangeglove\\" himself, Dick Stuart, who fielded three grounders in a game at Yankee Stadium in 1963 and made three flips to the pitcher covering first base.  I did find some misspelled words that got by the editor.  Holtzman states that it was during Ford Frick's \\"watch\\" when Jackie Robinson broke baseball's color line.  Holtzman should have clarified that it was during Frick's \\"watch\\" as president of the National League, and not as commissioner, when this took place. The commissioner during this historic event was Albert \\"Happy\\" Chandler.  Regardless, the book is very enjoyable to read, and it is interesting to read stories regarding the men who write the stories for us to read.	2005-08-02
US	51749393	R176IJKK92676M	0195159217	996201319	Lyndon B. Johnson: Portrait of a President	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Lyndon Johnson, President During a Difficult Decade	Lyndon B. Johnson will be remembered as President for his passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and also for his unwillingness to become the first president to lose a war.  A career in politics will invariably lead one to people you dislike and Lyndon had his share of those, notably Bobby Kennedy.  Johnson was a very down to earth individual, some would say crude, in his manner of speech to others, but he was a tireless worker in the area of Civil Rights in which he was successful, and in regard to the Vietnam war which wore him down to the extent that he chose not to run for a second term in 1968.  His reason for not more actively bombing North Vietnam and escalating the war in that regard was his fear of China and Russia entering the conflict.  It so happened that it was he who was president when the war reached the stalemate stage, but chances are anyone else would have adopted the same policy as he did.  However, his stubborness in not having his presidency tarnished with a defeat in the war ultimately wore him down with him leaving office with an escalated war beyond his control.  Our history is littered with presidents whose names are barely remembered, but Lyndon Baines Johnson will always be remembered, mostly for the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which brought the southern states in line with the rest of the nation regarding an integrated society and for a fruitless war fought over an erroneous domino theory in which one successive country after another will fall to communism if one of them does.  The book is nearly 400 pages long, but it is a read well worth your time.	2005-07-29
US	51749393	R3SKYKRQP3QUPO	1586420771	566656292	I Heard You Paint Houses: Frank "The Irishman" Sheeran and the Inside Story of the Mafia, the Teamsters, and the Final Ride of Jimmy Hoffa	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Can You Trust a Brutus?	Frank \\"The Irishman\\" Sheeran, with the assistance of author Charles Brandt, tells us his version of the murder and disappearance of James R. Hoffa.  Sheeran, in the role of Brutus, describes how Hoffa was eliminated because he wanted to regain the presidency of the Teamsters' union.  Hoffa was to meet with Tony Provenzano and Tony Giacalone at the Machus Red Fox Restaurant north of Detroit in Southfield, Michigan.  To convince Hoffa of the safety of having the meeting place changed to a private home, good friend Frank Sheeran was in the car as backup support for Hoffa with Hoffa's stepson Chuckie O'Brien doing the driving.  Tony Provenzano's partner, Salvatore, \\"Sally Bugs\\" Briguglio was in the car to pick up Hoffa to make sure Sheeran carried out his role in the plot and didn't warn Hoffa of his impending demise.  O'Brien, according to Sheeran, knew nothing of the plot to kill Hoffa.  In Jimmy's mind, another good friend, Russell Bufalino, was to be at the meeting and he (Bufalino) didn't like to meet in public places.  When Hoffa entered the private home and saw nobody there, he immediately knew something was not right.  Most likely still not suspecting his good friend Sheeran, Hoffa turned to run out of the house.  At that time, Sheeran says he shot Hoffa twice in back of the head.  The two Andretta brothers were in the back of the house to clean up the \\"paint\\" while Hoffa's body was then cut up and brought to a funeral home to be cremeated.  Sheeran \\"justifies\\" his role in the murder by saying if he didn't play the role he did, he would have been killed, also.  Watching the news of her father's friend on television Sheeran's daughter, sensing something different about her father said, \\"I don't even want to know a person like you.\\"  That was the last she ever spoke to him.  The remainder of the book covers Sheeran's years in World War II and his role as a hit man.  The book's title comes from the first words James R. Hoffa ever spoke to Frank Sheeran.  Painting houses means the blood that splatters the house when someone is shot, killed, and sent to Australia (down under).  The information on the abduction and killing of James Hoffa are especially interesting, and deserve a close reading and going over, but the remainder of the book I wasn't especially interested in.ouses means the blood that splatters the house when someone is shot, killed, and sent to Australia (down under).  The information on the abduction and killing of James Hoffa are especially interesting, and deserve a close reading and going over, but the remainder of the book I wasn't especially interested in.	2005-07-15
US	51749393	RA9WPTIRNNWNN	1582617333	96223418	How About That! The Life of Mel Allen	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	He Lived A Full Life	Mel Allen was the voice of the New York Yankees from 1939 through 1964 when he was abruptly dismissed for reasons unknown to him or anyone else.  The author states that writer Maury Allen was watching Mel tell stories to a group of writers which really was a one-way conversation with Mel doing all the talking.  Ralph Houk couldn't take it any more and stormed out of the room.  Between Houk and owner Dan Topping, who also was aware of Allen's gabbiness, it was decided a change would be made.  Supposedly Allen's propensity to talk also had something or another to do with sponsor Ballantine beer's drop in sales.  Allen had feelings of insecurity regarding his broadcasting abilities despite his national reputation.  Irving Berlin shared these same feelings regarding whether he would have the ability to write another hit song.  Broadcasting sporting events, the Yankees in particular, was Allen's life, and he was at a loss when his job was taken away.  Thankfully, another generation of fans would come to know Mel Allen through his weekly narration of This Week in Baseball.  Curt Gowdy asked Allen how he could have himself doing baseball bloopers after once announcing the Yankees and doing the Rose Bowl games.  Allen advised Gowdy never to get out of baseball.  He'd give anything to get back in it.  We often don't fully appreciate something until it is taken away.  One of the most memorable moments of Allen's Yankees' career came when he encountered the stricken Lou Gehrig in the dugout prior to a game.  Gehrig thanked Mel for doing the broadcasts because Gehrig said hearing the games on the radio kept him going.  Allen, understandably touched, excused himself saying he had to get up to the booth and wept as he left.  Both Allen and Red Barber had a grudging respect for one another, but there was a definite coolness between the two.  There have been several biographies of other baseball announcers, and it is high time this one came out on Mel Allen.  It has been worth the wait.wait.	2005-07-10
US	51749393	R14NIVPTF4KP5H	1582619433	527558336	Brooklyn Remembered: The 1955 Days of the Dodgers	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	The 1955 Dodgers Revisited	Respected baseball writer Maury Allen has provided us with an update on the 11 surviving members of the 1955 Brooklyn Dodgers' championship team on its 50th anniversary.  The book is just over 200 pages long and Allen discusses his visits with the former players and the wives of some of the deceased players.  I found several of the stories told in other books on Brooklyn's beloved team, but there were a few stories I hadn't heard before.  One involved Gil Hodges who has received more votes than any other player who has not been elected to the Hall of Fame.  Supposedly Veterans Committee member Ted Williams has been instrumental in keeping Hodges out not because of his playing ability, but because Hodges was more popular as a manager in Washington than Williams was.  Dodgers' executive Buzzie Bavasi felt Jackie Robinson should not have retired as a player when he was traded to the Giants following the 1956 season.  He felt Robinson could have become a possible assistant who could one day become the general manager of the Dodgers.  That never would have happened with Walter O'Malley owning the team due to the tension that existed between O'Malley and Robinson.  Although the 1955 team won Brooklyn's only championship the 1952 and 1953 teams were better than the '55 version.  The team was on the way down agewise by 1955 while the 1952 and 1953 team (Roger Kahn's Boys of Summer gang) were in their prime.  Author Allen also recounts an incident with manager Walter Alston over some unaccounted soft drinks that hadn't been paid for by the players.  Allen wrote a column about what he felt was a petty issue, and Alston invited Allen into his office to discuss it.  It resulted in Alston physically attacking Allen.  Traveling secretary Lee Scott heard the ruckus and came to Allen's rescue.  Several of the members of this team keep their championship ring in a safety deposit box to pass down to succeeding members of their family after they are gone.  I find it too bad the ring can't be worn and enjoyed, but they feel the risk of robbery is too great.  The book also includes a recap of each of the seven World Series games.  No team had ever come back from being down two games to none and won a seven game World Series before.  I did find one minor mistake.  Allen mentioned that Pirates' slugger Ralph Kiner was traded to the Cubs in 1952 when the correct year is 1953.  I'm old enough to remember this team and Kahn's 1953 team as well, and I was happy to read their will be a reunion party for the 1955 team in Brooklyn in the fall of this year, 2005.an't be worn and enjoyed, but they feel the risk of robbery is too great.  The book also includes a recap of each of the seven World Series games.  No team had ever come back from being down two games to none and won a seven game World Series before.  I did find one minor mistake.  Allen mentioned that Pirates' slugger Ralph Kiner was traded to the Cubs in 1952 when the correct year is 1953.  I'm old enough to remember this team and Kahn's 1953 team as well, and I was happy to read their will be a reunion party for the 1955 team in Brooklyn in the fall of this year, 2005.	2005-06-30
US	51749393	R25FS6S3BFILSH	0743254767	273534923	Cousy: His Life, Career, and the Birth of Big-Time Basketball	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	An Early Superstar From the NBA's Beginnings	You can be either a casual or even a non-fan of professional basketball and still enjoy Bill Reynolds's book on Bob Cousy.  He will take you back to a time in the late 1940's and early 1950's when professional basketball was merely a filler sport between football and baseball.  I feel the book is really two stories told in one book, the life of Bob Cousy and the role he played in professional basketball's beginnings and also the birth of the struggling NBA when they played in minor league cities such as Syracuse, New York, and Fort Wayne, Indiana.  It is also the story of early NBA superstars from other teams such as George Mikan of the Minneapolis Lakers, Bob Pettit of the St. Louis Hawks, and Oscar Robertson of the Cincinnati Royals.  Cousy also tells of his childhood insecurities while growing up in New York City, his decision to attend Holy Cross College in Worcester, Massachusetts, after playing only one and one half years of high school basketball, and how he became a Boston Celtic when coach Arnold \\"Red\\" Auerbach preferred to have two other players which were chosen in a dispersal draft.  The Celtics weren't able to become the NBA champs  until they added Bill Russell, a big man to play center.  How the Celtics managed to draft Russell with the third pick is an interesting story in itself.  NBA fan or not!  Boston Celtic fan or not!  You will enjoy this book.	2005-06-24
US	51749393	R3GMLNKICOGG7E	1555535798	663477127	Dynasty’s End: Bill Russell and the1968-69 World Champion Boston Celtics (Sportstown Series)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	A Team Appreciated More Now Than When They Played	I feel the book's strength is that you receive in-depth portraits of many of the star's who played for the Boston Celtics in addition to their announcer Johnny Most.  In addition we are also provided with descriptions of Wilt Chamberlain and other NBA stars during this time period.  Chamberlain, by the way, acquired his nickname \\"The Big Dipper\\" by having to often duck when entering through a doorway.  However, the title suggests a concentration on the 1968-1969 season, and only the chapters on the playoffs at the end of the book provide us with this information.  I enjoyed the book, but I found much of the same information in Bob Cousy's book and Red Auerbach's recent book.  In addition, former St. Louis Hawks' superstar, Bob Pettit, the first man to score 20,000 points, had his name spelled incorrectly both times it appeared in the book and also in the index.  If you enjoy the Celtics I'm quite sure you will enjoy the book, but I found it to be repetitious in what I found in other books.  It is, indeed, unfortunate that this great Celtics team often played before a half empty Boston Garden before fans who really didn't appreciate what they had representing their city.	2005-06-24
US	51749393	RNZC7QS6KXKUS	1586482963	246532769	Son of the Rough South: An Uncivil Memoir	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Riveting Reading	This book is over 400 pages long and I finished it in two days.  It is without a doubt one of the very best books I have read in some time.  Karl Fleming describes in great, interesting detail how his mother had to give him and his sister up to live in an orphanage because she wasn't able to provide for them.  His experiences during this time period are many.  He tells us of the unwritten rules the boys followed, the adults (Mable \\"Muh\\" Brown, in particular) who befriended him, the bully \\"Fatty\\" Clark, who gave him such a hard time, and the church sermons he had to listen to that portrayed God in such an angry way that, as an adult, unfortunately, turned Karl Fleming against attending church.  Karl was without a college education, but he educated himself with his love of reading several of the classics from American literature.  Hired by newsweek as a reporter Karl Fleming brings the reader to Oxford, Mississippi, where James Meredith enrolled as the first black student.  The bombing of the black church in Birmingham, Alabama, which killed four young girls, the death of three civil rights' workers in Philadelphia, Mississippi, and other unfortunate incidents in the civil rights movement of the 1960's are dealt with in vivid detail.  Portraits of southern bigots such as Bull Connor, Ross Barnett, and others who resented their black citizens from having the equal rights they so richly deserved are also provided.  Fleming, despite his growing up in North Carolina, sided with the underdog blacks because he, himself, had grown up in the orphanage being bullied.  I feel God placed \\"Fatty\\" Clark  in Karl's life as a young boy as a way of preparing him for what he would encounter in his job as an adult.  I would suggest you have adequate time when you sit down to read this book because you're not going to want to put it down.	2005-06-24
US	51749393	RJ8DTDH7EKJMZ	0743238516	412976754	Green River, Running Red: The Real Story of the Green River Killer--America's Deadliest Serial Murderer	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	A Well Told Depressing Story	Ann Rule has written a very comprehensive story of Gary Ridgeway's reign of terror through the suburbs of Seattle, Washington.  I rate the book five stars for her thorough coverage, but my interest level was at the four star level.  The first section summarizes each victim's history leading up to their leaving home to find excitement in the Pacific northwest, and for the most part, ending up as prostitutes.  Various individuals were suspected as being the \\"Green River Killer\\", and the book delves into the childhood history of Gary Ridgeway who was a bed wetter into his teens with his mother washing his genital area trying to break him of the habit.  His three marriages were difficult and he developed what he called a hatred of prostitutes.  He looked upon each of them as mere garbage to be thrown away while each of them had loved ones living somewhere in the country who was concerned about them.  The book is over 400 pages long, and you may feel as though you are being told more than you care to know about the subject.  The subject is depressing, but it is an extremely well done book and well worth your time.	2005-06-15
US	51749393	R2S0Q2QKYT7TAO	0060532173	926904520	On Hitler's Mountain: Overcoming the Legacy of a Nazi Childhood	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Growing Up in the Shadow of The Eagle's Nest	You may have read numerous books on World War II, but Irmgard Hunt has written an account from her viewpoint of growing up in Nazi Germany in the town of Berchtesgaden.  She describes conflicting opinions held by family members regarding Adolf Hitler and her confusion as to who and what to believe.  Was he Germany's savior or a monster to be feared?  School became something she hated due to pro Nazi teachers who indoctrinated the students and abused their authority with unnecessary corporal punishment.  One of her classmates was the son of Albert Speer while another was the son of the executed Fritz Sauckel.  Irmgard describes an experience of a fanatical pro Nazi teacher who insisted she get up in front of the class and state how proud she was that her father gave his life in the war for the Fuhrer.  Another of her teacher's appeared to be a kindly woman who gently asked whether or not one of her relatives was supporting the Fuhrer.  She hesitated in answering, but then lied that he doesn't talk about the situation.  She later found her teacher was an informant for the Gestapo, and shuddered as to how close she had come to consigning him to a concentration camp.  She also relates her uncomfortable experience of sitting on the knee of Hitler in addition to her fear of allied bombings and wondering how the Americans would treat her family members once they invaded Berchtesgaden.  This book is told from the viewpoint of a child and the fears and conflicting thoughts she had regarding the war.  The book also includes a picture of Hitler's Berghof after it was bombed along with a picture of the Eagle's Nest sitting on top one of the mountains.  The author also speaks of her beginning to challenge her mother's beliefs.  The war became tiresome and Irmgard realized she had been robbed of a significant part of her childhood.  This book is a quick read, but whether you are a grizzled veteran of World War II books or a neophyte this is a book that gives you the war from a different viewpoint ( a child).ifferent viewpoint ( a child).	2005-05-25
US	51749393	R1ECKF9Y1OIGIF	0375414339	490892129	Armageddon: The Battle for Germany, 1944-1945	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Book on Human Suffering When Life Was Cheap	Author Max Hastings has provided us with a detailed history of World War II for the years 1944 and 1945 regarding the battle for Germany.  The Italian campaign has been omitted from this book.  I have read other books on this period of the war, but what I found different about this effort is his objectivity by citing quotes of American, British, French, Russian, and German soldiers regarding their experiences regarding the war and how they thought about one another.  It is well known that the Germans would rather have surrendered to the Western powers rather than the Russians who were more bent on revenge over what the Germans had done on their attack on Russia.  However, rather than try to hold off the Russians and let the Americans and British  advance, the Germans put a large number of their elite soldiers to fight in The Battle of the Bulge which weakened their fighting power against the Russians in the east.  This strategy made it easier for the Russians to enter Berlin who would not be as merciful to the Germans.  I also found the attitudes the various American and British generals had towards one another interesting and the uneasy truce that existed between them.  Whether you have read a number of books on this period of World War II or if you are a neophyte on the subject, this book has a lot to offer anyone who wants to read the 500 plus pages.  You will find it to be worth your time.	2005-05-14
US	51749393	R31FE0X60HVQZO	0871138859	17189283	The Old Ball Game: How John McGraw, Christy Mathewson, and the New York Giants Created Modern Baseball	Books	5	21	23	N	Y	Baseball's  Odd Couple	John McGraw and Christy Mathewson became two of baseball's most recognizable personalities with the arrival of the 20th century.  McGraw made his name initially as a third baseman with the scrappy Baltimore Orioles in the 1890's.  Mathewson was one of a very few college players, and found himself being tried as a first baseman along with pitching for the Giants when McGraw was brought to New York to lead the Giants for the next thirty years.  Author Frank Deford manages to weave together these two diverse personalities as each left their imprint on the game during their short lives.  McGraw died at the relatively young age of 60, although his bouts with the bottle made him appear much older than he was.  Matty died at the youthful age of 45 due to tuberculosis, probably the result of breathing poisonous gas during a drill among soldiers while in France during World War I.  The information provided on the old Baltimore Orioles can be found in numerous other books, most notably for me, Fred Lieb's history on the Baltimore Orioles as well as the information on Mathewson in other books.  However, I feel Frank Deford does a good job in tying together the lives of these two giants of the game who became great friends as well.  For all his crustiness, combativeness, and profane mouth, McGraw, who experienced tragedy as a young boy by seeing his mother and several siblings die of diptheria, had a sentimental side to him.  He hung three pictures in his office of his favorite players (Christy Mathewson, Ross Youngs, and Mel Ott).  The last sentence is not included in the book.  Following his playing career Mathewson became manager of the Cincinnati Reds.  He suspended one of his players, Hal Chase, because he believed him to be involved in fixing ball games.  When Matty returned from France McGraw offered him a job as a coach on the Giants, only to find Hal Chase now a member of the team.  McGraw had difficulty adjusting to the times as he bemoaned the modern (at that time) player, while the stature of his old Oriole teammates grew with the advancing years.  You can find a lot of the information on these two baseball legends in other individual biographies, but this book will bring these two giants and close friends together in one well done (if you will) dual biography.player, while the stature of his old Oriole teammates grew with the advancing years.  You can find a lot of the information on these two baseball legends in other individual biographies, but this book will bring these two giants and close friends together in one well done (if you will) dual biography.	2005-04-13
US	51749393	R3LP3XCBLSZT9H	074353011X	734522183	Luckiest Man: The Life and Death of Lou Gehrig	Books	5	101	105	N	Y	The Definitive Book on Lou Gehrig	I have read other previous biographies on Lou Gehrig such as Ray Robinson's effort entitled \\"Iron Horse\\" and Frank Graham's book entitled \\"Lou Gehrig:  A Quiet Hero\\".  Both books are well done, but Jonathan Eig's book is the most in-depth effort on Gehrig to date.  Gehrig had an over-bearing and protective mother and a passive insecure father.  While Lou had great admiration and respect for his mother, her influence probably contributed to Lou's insecurities regarding himself.  Lou's mother viewed his wife as a threat to her control over her son, and both mother and mother-in-law were in constant conflict over the son and husband.  Even after Lou's death the wrangling continued over Lou's estate.  The author provides ample coverage of Lou Gehrig Appreciation Day on July 4, 1939, when Gehrig delivered his Gettysburg Address speech at Yankee Stadium between games of a doubleheader between the Yankees and the Washington Senators.  Significant coverage is also provided on ALS, the disease that now carries Gehrig's name.  Gehrig always expressed his appreciation for the care he received at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, and exchanged letters with physicians in charge of his care.  He always looked for miniscule signs that may indicate the disease wasn't getting any worse, but by the spring of 1941 he knew it was just a matter of time before the inevitable took place.  This book is also a rare treat in that it isn't laced with profanity.  If you have a young reader around ten years old who is reading at an advanced level, feel free to give them this book as a gift.  It will be one that will be appreciated for years to come.<br />P.S.--I don't know why Amazon lists this as from an \\"Audio CD.\\"  This review is from the hardcover book.	2005-04-06
US	51749393	RDR2RS81FCAHX	0316738239	538916779	Let Me Tell You a Story: A Lifetime in the Game	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Opinions From A Master Storyteller	I am not a big fan of basketball, but I do remember Red Auerbach when he coached the Boston Celtics.  Red and many of his friends have weekly Tuesday get-togethers at the China Doll Restaurant in Washington, D.C. where they swap stories with one another.  Red gives his opinions on coaches today who he feels overcoach their team and often play to the cameras and fans by jumping up and down and screaming with their team up by 20 or 30 points with a minute or two in the game.  Red's rule for winning is simple: Get good players who are good people and you will have a winning team.  People say Red was a great coach because he had great players.  But, the author adds, \\"Who do you think chose the players?\\"  Red always has had a good relationship with Bobby Knight.  Knight said, \\"He (Red) was nice to me for no reason years ago and he never stopped.\\"  A pet peeve of his is P.A. announcers who mumble the names of the visiting players during introductions and then boost up the P.A. system when the home team is introduced \\"as if they just saved the planet.\\"  Red finally gave up coaching at the age of forty eight due to exhaustion.  Dealing with having to scout and being a general manager and keeping the team's talent pool coming had worn him out.  Reading this book is a learning experience for coaches on all levels, and I am proof you don't have to be a basketball fan to enjoy the book.	2005-03-12
US	51749393	R3X28BBUIE21	007144727X	949643366	Beyond the Boys of Summer	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Roger Kahn is Always A Treat to Read	I have never read a book by Roger Kahn that was less than five stars.  This volume is a collection of Kahn's work from books and magazine articles from his illustrious career.  Roger covered the Brooklyn Dodgers during the seasons of 1952 and 1953 which led to The Boys of Summer.  The book is divided into sections with chapters devoted to athletes, mainly baseball players, that have been subjects of Kahn's work over the past several decades.  The last chapter is a tribute to former Dodgers' outfielder Carl Furillo, The Reading Rifle.  It is absolutely first rate.  Some of the other sections of the book are devoted to New York's centerfielders of the 1950's, hitters and pitchers, fighters such as Dempsey and Ali, in addition to Billy vs. Reggie, and George M. Steinbrenner.  A very touching section is entitled \\"Heroes Off the Field\\" in which chapters are devoted to Jackie Robinson, Roberto Clemente, Ring Lardner, and Pee Wee Reese.  Another memorable section is devoted to \\"On Getting Old\\" with chapters on Robert Frost, Stan Musial (old as a ballplayer), sportswriters, and the previously mentioned Carl Furillo.  I did find one minor error in the Introduction written by Rob Miraldi when he said \\"he (Kahn) was sent to cover the crosstown Giants in the Bronx\\" after covering the Dodgers in 1952 and 1953.  The Giants as Miraldi knows played in the Polo Grounds which was located on the island of Manhattan.  If you have enjoyed Roger Kahn's previous books you won't want to miss this one, especially if you are a baseball fan.  This isn't a book to be read by a speed reader.  This is a book to be savored.	2005-03-06
US	51749393	R13ZFIKUK8MWHZ	0316734519	128562699	Downtown: My Manhattan	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Pete Hamill's Manhattan Is Waiting For You	To appreciate Manhattan to its fullest author Pete Hamill states you have to walk the streets.  Since Hamill has \\"paid rent\\" in various locations on the island he is qualified to tell us what changes various parts of \\"downtown\\" have undergone over the past several decades.  Downtown to Hamill runs from Battery Park at the southern tip of the island to approximately 60th Street.  Hamill provides us with the history of the various parts of Manhattan and the changes that have taken place in areas such as Union Square, Herald Square, Washington Square, in \\"the Village\\", and Times Square, formerely Longacre Square.  A huge victory for the city has been reclaiming Times Square from the druggies, feral children, porno parlors, and other seedy characters that inhabited the area mainly from the 1960's through the 1980's.  Since my experiences in New York City have been limited to brief visits in 1958, 1973, 1978, and 2004) I don't have the necessary background to visualize all the places that Hamill tells us about.  I did, however, find the book fascinating to read and picked up some historical tidbits I wasn't aware of.  From my own limited observations the difference in the Times Square area in 2004 was a tremendous improvement from what it was like in the 1970's.  Whether you are a veteran New Yorker or just interested in learning about this fascinating island, you will find Pete Hamill's \\"Downtown\\" to be an interesting and informative read.	2005-02-26
US	51749393	R25KMPPI6R21LD	0471271403	491481374	The Girl From Botany Bay	Books	5	22	24	N	N	A Book of Human Suffering	I was aware that England used Australia as a place to send prisoners during the American Revolutionary War years and later, but I never realized how miserable the living conditions were and the human cargo that was shipped there arrived more dead than alive.  Botany Bay actually was located on the southern shore of the island of Tasmania, but conditions were such that the prisoners were transferred to what is now Sydney harbor.  Lawbreakers in England such as Mary Bryant were routinely sentenced to death by hanging.  Mary was one of those whose life was spared and chosen to serve her sentence in Australia.  After several punishing months at sea and living in filth on the ship in addition to becomming pregnant by a male passenger the group of convicts arrived at their destination.  Living conditions for the prisoners encouraged everyone to plot their escape from this living hell hole.  Mary, along with her husband, child, and other prisoners escaped and headed for the island of Timor.  This is a story of sadistic guards who enjoyed abusing their authority by having violators whipped for escape attempts and other rule violations.  Mary and her family were to be returned to England after being recaptured, but her husband and now two children both died before arriving.  Mary expected to be resentenced to death, but James Boswell, a friend of King George, wrote asking for a pardon for Mary for all the trials and tribulations she had been through.  His appeal was successful and Mary received a pardon along with a yearly annunity from James Boswell for her to live on.  This is a book of human suffering while traveling on a ship in terrible weather in addition to the suffering while in captivity in Australia.  The English weren't bashful in handing out death penalities to its citizens, and sentencing offenders to Australia to live in squalor if they survived the trip was a way of just getting these people out of their hair and the country.  This is a sad chapter in the history of England.ory of England.	2005-02-24
US	51749393	R27O7E0I63OO3Y	1400054079	957024735	Have Glove, Will Travel: Adventures of a Baseball Vagabond	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Bill Lee Has A Genuine Love For The Game	I was going to rate this book three stars, but the book rallied in the last few chapters.  I was not interested in reading about Bill Lee's adventures around the world as it applied to drugs and other hell-raising escapades.  He was put on baseball's black list after going AWOL during a game with the Montreal Expos when a friend of his was unfairly, according to Lee, released.  There is a wonderful chapter on the conversation he had with Ted Williams.  Williams, of course, claims he made a living off of dumb pitchers.  However, Lee challenged Teddy Ballgame by saying he could tell him one reason Williams was such a good hitter that Ted wasn't even aware of.  The skeptical, but curious, Williams decided to hear what Lee had to say.  After having Williams conduct a simple experiment involving his eyes, Lee made a believer of Williams in regard to which of Williams' eyes was the dominant one.  Lee genuinely loves the game of baseball as has previous generations in his family.  In fact, his aunt, Annabelle Lee, was a professional ballplayer for nine seasons as the ace left-hander for several women's baseball teams during the 1940's.  Her uniform hangs in the Baseball Hall of Fame.  For Lee to continue playing wherever a ballgame can be found shows he has a genuine love for the game.  There are some very funny anecdotes that will be fun to pass on to others.  I give the book four stars rather than five, due to a lot of the aforementioned mischief stories involving drugs and alcohol.  The last forty pages, however, make this book a worth while read.	2005-02-20
US	51749393	R1UJ54F6KPRWZF	1589791177	568122112	Bart Starr: When Leadership Mattered	Books	3	13	13	N	N	A Good Biography, But Nothing New	Those interested in reading about former Green Bay Packers' quarterback Bart Starr for the first time will find this to be an interesting biography.  However, if you have read previous books on the Packers such as Jerry Kramer's \\"Instant Replay\\" and David Maraniss's definitive biography on Vince Lombardi entitled \\"When Pride Still Mattered\\", you will not find anything new here.  Author David Claerbaut relies heavily on Maraniss's book on Lombardi in addition to having a similar title \\"When Leadership Mattered.\\"  Claerbaut does delve into Starr's nine years as the coach of the Packers in addition to Starr's son, Brett, who suffered from drug addiction.  As far as Starr's years as a player for the Packers is concerned what this book has to offer can be found in several other books on the team.  However, if you have not read a previous book on Bart Starr or the Packers of the 1960's then you will enjoy this book.	2005-02-18
US	51749393	RM1UR9MB8HLTW	0071450858	926615418	What I Learned From Jackie Robinson: A Teammate's Reflections On and Off the Field	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Book of Sincere Appreciation	Carl Erskine has written a book of sincere appreciation of former Brooklyn Dodgers' teammate Jackie Robinson for the role he played in Erskine's life and also in advancing the cause of civil rights in which baseball paved the way for the rest of the country to follow.  Part of the book covers the careers both had as teammates on the Dodgers and their almost yearly quest to dethrone the Yankees as World Champions in the World Series.  Some of the anecdotes can be found in other books, but there are some stories Erskine relates that I have never heard before.  Erskine relates the struggle Robinson faced in gaining acceptance in baseball to his (Erskine's) son Jimmy, a Down syndrome child, faced in gaining acceptance in a prejudiced American society. As Erskine relates, the Boys of Summer are now in their autumn as many of his teammates have passed on.  Carl believes that our experiences that take place early in our life are designed to prepare us for what is to come ahead.  A black friend he had as a young boy prepared him for the time when Robinson would become his teammate.  It's easy to see Erskine's affection towards Robinson.  Sometimes what appears to be a small kindness looms large in the one who receives it.  Carl Erskine pitched as a minor leaguer against the parent Brooklyn Dodgers' team, and after the game Robinson came over and praised Carl's pitching effort to him.  To hear this praise coming from Jackie Robinson meant a lot to him, and was something Erskine always remembered.  A chapter I especially enjoyed was Erskine relating a year 2000 trip he and his family made to New York and returned to Brooklyn to see the old neighborhood he used to live in while a member of the Dodgers.  The book is only 150 pages long, but whether you are of age to remember the Brooklyn Dodgers of the 1950's or not this is a book you will find to be of interest to you.  I give the book five stars for Carl's efforts to relate his experiences in trying to teach others the importance of accepting others for who they are.tance of accepting others for who they are.	2005-02-17
US	51749393	R151Z8L9LA0GMM	1894963369	282670633	The Heart of the Game: An Illustrated Celebration of the American League, 1946-1960	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	This Book Is A Gem Filled With Glorious Painted Photos	This is a book that definitely belongs in the library of every baseball fan, especially if you were a fan during the 1950's.  This book covers the years of the American League from 1946-1960.  There is a text for each of the eight teams that were in the league during those years written by a different author.  Some of the authors are Arnold Hano, Furman Bisher, Milton Gross, Frank Graham, Jr., Al Stump, and Dick Schaap in addition to an introduction by Rober Creamer entitled \\"Baseball's Golden Age.\\" However, the outstanding part of the book is the pictures.  WOW!  Every picture in the book looks like a painting similar to those in the 1951 and 1952 Bowmans or the 1953 Topps baseball cards.  The poses aren't necessarily the same, but the picture quality matches those cards.  The photos aren't limited to star or superstar players on each team.  Many average major leaguers that you will remember are illustrated in this book as well.  There are also full page paintings of star and superstar players that overpower you in their beauty.  Each team has over 20 pages devoted to coverage with the Yankees having approximately 40 pages.  Each team has a story about one of their prominent players to begin the team's coverage, and a separate page is devoted to photos of the hitters and another to the pitchers.  Throughout the pages of each team are the photos all painted in glorious color.  You will especially enjoy this book if you were of age to be a baseball fan in the 1950's, because the book will bring these years back to you.  I have hundreds of baseball books in my library, and this one will take a prominent place in my library.  I do not exaggerate.  Trust me on this one.  This is a book that you need.  Now we need a similar book on the National League from the same time period.	2005-02-16
US	51749393	R1KFZA1XFW2TG8	037541469X	465669106	The Nuremberg Interviews	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Interviews with Buckpassers	Dr. Leon Goldensohn, an American psychiatrist, interviewed a number of defendants involved in the Nuremberg trials following World War II along with a number of witnesses who also were placed on trial, some of which were also put to death by hanging.  All claim they were to do their assigned job, and it wasn't necessary for them to know anyone elses role in the Third Reich.  Hitler, they said, kept them in the dark about what was going on and it wasn't until after the war that they learned of the atrocities that had taken place.  The defendants placed the blame on Hitler, Himmler, and Bormann, all of which were beyond earthly punishment.  I'm sure it was possible some of them had convinced themselves of their innocence, the magnitude of their guilt, being too enormous to accept.  The text of the book is 450 pages long, but it reads along well and I'm sure you will find it to be interesting reading.	2005-01-25
US	51749393	R37A1ACD9E7Z8P	0892046880	574206955	Heroes of the Hall : Baseball's Greatest Players	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A Beautiful Book for All Baseball Fans	If you know a baseball fan who you would be looking to purchase a gift for a birthday present or just as a pleasant surprise, you will not go wrong with this book.  This is a book that would be appreciated by both youngsters 12 and up and adults.  The book is illustrated with beautiful colored pictures of the Hall of Famers in addition to providing text that covers their career.  The price is worth it.  I have bought multiple copies as gifts, and they have been much appreciated.  This is a book that will be treasured by the lucky recipient for a lifetime.	2005-01-09
US	51749393	RF2YFOOZI501N	1594200351	803168949	The Last Season: A Team In Search of Its Soul	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	The Pressure in Juggling Massive Egos	Coach Phil Jackson gives his account of his final season as coach of the Los Angeles Lakers which included his juggling act in handling the egos of NBA players.  He provides us with details of the tension filled rivalry between superstars Shaq and Kobe Bryant along with the tension involved in the quest for another championship.  I found it interesting that Jackson was frustrated with Bryant to the extent he wanted to trade him during the season.  At seasons end Jackson asked Bryant whether his being with the Lakers or retiring have any influence on his decision to remain with the Lakers.  Jackson hoped Kobe would say something to the effect that he will be best as a player if he (Jackson) is with the team.  Instead Kobe said Jackson's being with the team should have no effect on his decision to remain or become a free agent.  Since Kobe had his prime years ahead of him it would be Shaq who would be dealt since the two could no longer co-exist on the same team.  The Lakers, of course, didn't achieve their goal of another championship since they were derailed in the finals against the Detroit Pistons.  I got the feeling Jackson was relieved to be out of the NBA pressure cooker although he didn't rule out the possibility of returning as a coach somewhere in the future.  I don't feel the book is a classic by any means, and I'm sure the author didn't intend it to be.  I based my three star rating on my interest in the subject, although I know the students at our local high school will enjoy reading it.	2004-12-31
US	51749393	R2SDN1L5WQ9O5W	0670033553	131297355	The Journey of Crazy Horse: A Lakota History	Books	5	104	110	N	Y	Crazy Horse and the Lakota Culture	This is the first book I have read authored by Joseph M. Marshall, a Lakota Sioux.  Based on this effort on Crazy Horse, I plan on reading others as well.  Stereotypes are cast aside regarding the Lakota Sioux who were fighting an enemy that threatened their cultural way of life.  It was the Fetterman Fight in December of 1866 in which Crazy Horse demonstrated his leadership by luring William Fetterman and his eighty men from Fort Phil Kearny into a trap that led to the demise of his entire group while young warriors, fighting impatience, waited until all of Fetterman's men were within the trap before attacking the soldiers.  Much has been written about The Battle at the Little Bighorn in Montana in which Crazy Horse was instrumental in the defeat of General George Custer, but little is written about The Battle of the Rosebud near Buffalo, Wyoming, in which Crazy Horse and his men fought General George \\"Three Stars\\" Crook eight days prior to Little Bighorn.  This battle is important because it eliminated Crook and his men from attacking the Indians at the Greasy Grass.  Crazy Horse ultimately had to surrender at Fort Robinson in Nebraska because it meant the survival of his Lakota people.  To continue fighting meant death to all against the superior numbers of the white invaders.  I have read three other biographies on Crazy Horse, but this one by Joseph Marshall is the best of the bunch.  Marshall puts himself in the position as an instructor of the Lakota way of life, and we, the reader, are his students.  I found it to be a very informative book.	2004-12-13
US	51749393	RFZ5FFURJH3H6	156980267X	532427209	Gangster City: The History of the New York Underworld 1900-1935	Books	5	9	13	N	Y	There Is Nothing Cool About Being A Gangster	This book is a very detailed account with at least a murder on every page of underworld characters, both well-known and those long forgotten, but all of them infamous in New York City from 1900-1935.  The murders tend to become routine after awhile, yet it is easy to overlook the pain and suffering involved for those who have been eliminated.  Knowing that you had to be vigilant at all times because someone would be out to get you was the price one had to pay for the greed of ill-gotten money.  Many of these mobsters got the dreaded telephone call to report somewhere for a meeting with someone.  All too often this was the beginning of a trap that would lead to their demise.  Most met their end at an early age (20's or 30's) either in gangland execution or in Sing Sing's deathhouse.  Only a few, such as Owney Madden, lived to old age.  The life of a gangster wasn't glamorous by any means, even though some such as Arnold Rothstein and \\"Legs\\" Diamond dressed the part.  In the Preface the author states other books often neglect to tell the reader how, when, and where these mobsters died, and he wants to correct that with this book.  He has lived up to that promise in this book.  He concludes the book with a list of \\"Where They Lived and Died\\" of each of those included in the book.  Other than a historical account, the lesson one can take from this book is that there is nothing cool about being a gangster.  The reward for their efforts was an early grave.	2004-11-18
US	51749393	R35DGC594CZ1VU	0060515066	912615672	The Last Night of the Yankee Dynasty: The Game, the Team, and the Cost of Greatness	Books	4	31	36	N	Y	A Hefty Payroll Includes Accountability	Forest have been felled in writing books about the New York Yankees, but Buster Olney has provided us with an interesting account of George Steinbrenner's 2001 Yankees.  Each chapter discusses a different player or executive, and he does provide interesting anecdotes about each one.  The final few paragraphs of each chapter discuss the progress of the 7th game of the 2001 World Series against the Arizona Diamondbacks.  In addition to players chapters are devoted to Steinbrenner, Brian Cashman, and Gene Michael.  The chapters on each individual are not a mundane recitation that you can find anywhere.  Olney provides us with insights into the personalities of his subjects, and how they react to the stressful positions they find themselves in playing for an owner who insists on winning all the time.  If not, \\"There are going to be changes.  Meeting in Tampa in 48 hours.\\"  The book takes its title from the fact that several of the Yankees' winning type players have retired while the team has now become a collection of aging superstars with hefty contracts that don't necessarily mix well together as a team.  That, and a barren farm system, spell demise for the Yankees' dynasty.  I'm not a Yankees' fan, but I found the book to be worth my time and one that is worth keeping in my bookcase as part of baseball's glorious history.  You won't be disappointed.	2004-11-15
US	51749393	REF9HP336WI40	0066211735	20998921	Over the Edge of the World: Magellan's Terrifying Circumnavigation of the Globe	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	An Epic Adventure For The Armchair Navigator	History comes vividly alive in author Laurence Bergreen's rendition of Ferdinand Magellan's trip to circumnavigate the earth in search of the wealth of the Spice Islands.  Starting out with five ships and over two hundred men there remained only one ship and twenty-two survivors as they returned to Seville, Spain, three years later.  In between there was mutiny, jealously, disease, starvation, sex orgies, executions, tumultous navigation of the waters, and battles with natives to name a few things to keep the reader interested.  According to respected historian Samuel Eliot Morison the three greatest explorers during the Age of Discovery were Ferdinand Magellan, Christopher Columbus, and Vasco da Gama.  Of the three he feels Magellan stands supreme.  This is a story that will interest anyone who enjoys great adventure.  To me, the unsung hero of this epic adventure is the man who kept the diary, Antonio Pigafetta.  Without his astute observations, much of what we know of this trip would be lost to history.  Magellan's fatal mistake was in forgetting why he was making this trip in the first place, namely to locate the strait, which he did, to get the spices from the spice islands, and circle the globe.  However, his desire to force Christianity down the throats of people rather than through diplomatic means ultimately cost him his life.  Had Magellan not needlessly lost his life at Mactan in the Phillipines, it is likely discipline would not have disintegrated and his flagship Trinidad would have been repaired when repairs were desperately needed rather than have the ship destroyed.  How frustrating to have the precious cargo yet not be able to take it home.  Magellan, unfortunately, was viewed as a traitor to both the countries of Portugal and Spain as he was not there to plead his case.  I have read Morison's account of Magellan, and I must say, I equally enjoyed Laurence Bergreen's account of this advanture as well.  This book is great reading.  You won't be disappointed.pointed.	2004-11-09
US	51749393	R1E7GB3IF5R8Q5	0060096659	672622085	Where the Birds Never Sing: The True Story of the 92nd Signal Battalion and the Liberation of Dachau	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Son Pay Homage to His Father	Author Jack Sacco has provided us with an easy-to-read and well written account told through the eyes of his father Joe Sacco's experiences in World War II.  From the time he was drafted into the army in October of 1942 until his release in 1945 Joe Sacco lived through experiences shared by many soldiers during that time.  Intimate portraits of fellow soldiers who became like brothers to him are provided throughout the book.  Joe Sacco entered Europe one week after the D-Day invasion of Normandy and experienced combat experiences in The Battle of the Bulge and other places.  The liberation of the concentration camp at Dachau, Germany, in April of 1945 is vividly told to illustrate man's inhumanity to man.  A speech given to the soldiers by General George Patton is retold in all its humor.  Sadness comes with the death of two of Joe's friends in combat in addition to the death of a French girl named Monique at the hand of the Nazi's that Joe had fallen in love with, and had hoped to be reunited with at war's end.  Many books have been written regarding soldiers' experiences in World War II, but I found this one to be expecially interesting because the characters are really brought to life in all their down-to-earth humanness, and a format that was easy to read and hard to put down.	2004-10-09
US	51749393	R2I0PA5N6991EC	1893224872	686488148	Puppetmaster: The Secret Life of J. Edgar Hoover	Books	3	8	13	N	Y	An Unscrupulous Way To Stay In Power	Richard Hack has written a biography that really doesn't tell us anything we didn't already know about J. Edgar Hoover, a strange man who headed the F.B.I. for several decades.  Hoover kept files on the skeletons in the closet, both real and imagined, on people whose behavior he wanted to control.  Hoover used this blackmail to remain in office throughout the changes in the political climate in Washington.  His idea of a good read would be to remain home and sift through the files of various individuals and entertain himself with the perceived weaknesses of others.  The man who had files on so many people should have had a file himself.  Perhaps it gave him comfort to know others had problems that he had a difficult time facing in himself.  He was a glory hunter who wanted the credit to go to him in highly publicized cases such as the cases of John Dillinger and \\"Baby Face\\" Nelson.  Hoover didn't like the publicity Melvin Purvis got in the Dillinger case, so he had him eventually removed from the F.B.I.  Hoover also didn't want to admit to the existence of the mafia.  Perhaps he wanted to concentrate on two bit gangsters rather than accept the challenge of organized crime.  It's scary to think the F.B.I.  had such a strange man at the helm for so many years.  The improvements made during his tenure could certainly have been made by someone else during all these years.	2004-09-22
US	51749393	RHY3MVMEQ8UFB	0471193771	565541920	Operation Eichmann: The Truth about the Pursuit, Capture and Trial	Books	4	5	8	N	Y	An Infamous Individual Is Brought To Justice	This account of the life of Nazi Adolf Eichmann from his role in persecuting the Jews under Adolf Hitler's infamous Third Reich until his capture in May of 1960 and his ultimate death by hanging is told by Zvi Aharoni, the man who was a key player in the plot to kidnap Eichmann and bring him to trial.  Vivid details that had to be attended to both prior to and after the capture of the Nazi criminal are provided to appreciate the difficulty in carrying out this complicated undertaking.  Eichmann had a number of sons, the last of which, Richardo, was a generation younger than his brothers who really has no recollection of his father.  He states he feels nothing towards his father, and can't find words to describe his terrible deeds during the war.  During a visit to the site of the Wannsee-Konferenz which showed a photo of Adolf, Ricardo explained the role of his children's grandfather to them.  The two children sadly said they \\"could not love a grandpa like him.\\"  I guess we all serve as an example to others, even if it is in a negative way.  Anyone interested in Hitler's shady characters will enjoy seeing justice served in this book.	2004-09-07
US	51749393	RBEAYGCJQWYRP	1932033246	9530293	Gestapo: A History of Hitler's Secret Police	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Life Is Cheap In The Hands Of Hitler's Barbarians	This book by author Rupert Butler is a fairly quick read (185 pages of text) revealing the barbarity of members of Hitler's Third Reich in carrying out executions of millions of individuals.  Numerous photos of the infamous characters both in their heyday and death add to the book's interest.  Incidents such as the assassination of The Butcher of Prague, Reinhard Heydrich, and the July, 1944 bomb plot to assassinate Adolf Hitler are given detailed attention.  I'm sure the text of this book can be found in many other volumes, but the photos chosen for the book are exceptional.  Examples are the sinister Heydrich cuddling his youngest daughter, the destruction of the village of Lidice in reprisal of the death of Heydrich, Judge Roland Freisler showering venom onto a pathetic defendant at the People's Court, the ruins of the inside of the conference room at Rastenburg following the attempt on Hitler's life, close up pictures of Hitler's henchmen, some of them shown in death, and the ruins inside Hitler's bunker.  These and many other photos make this book a keeper in the library of World War II buffs.	2004-09-03
US	51749393	R37LWLS56SFZT0	0393048004	808655010	The Devil's Disciples: Hitler's Inner Circle	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Lengthy Book That Will Hold Your Interest	The product details states this book is 352 pages while it actually is 923 pages of text not counting the index.  Anthony Read has covered the rise of the Third Reich from its beginnings during the Weimar Republic between World Wars I and II until its capitulation in the spring of 1945.  All of Hitler's infamous henchmen are here as various ones, each one jealous of the others, vie for favorable standing within the party to gain favor with the Fuhrer.  If you are looking for a book on Hitler and his cohorts, this mammoth volume will bring it all to life for you.	2004-09-02
US	51749393	RIFEEOS36W9XC	0786713542	610418589	John Dillinger: The Life and Death of America's First Celebrity Criminal	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	A Well Researched Book and Fascinating Reading	Considering that John Dillinger's romp through bank robbing infamy lasted barely more than one year it is amazing the impact he has had on changes made in law enforcement, the banking industry, and the rise of Hoover's F.B.I.  Had Dillinger lasted somewhat longer Hoover's critics may have defeated a federal police force by pointing out their inability to capture the hoodlum, and bringing up the fiasco that took place at Little Bohemia in northern Wisconsin.  John Dillinger lost his mother at the age of three and was known to say that perhaps things would have turned out differently if he had a mother around.  Dillinger's chosen path proved to be a tough way to live as evidenced by the demise of not only himself, but his cohorts in crime as well.  Wounds suffered in bank robberies had to be attended to by physicians who had questionable skills in practicing medicine.  The strain of having to be ever alert, and who to trust took its toll on the gang members.  There were times when Dillinger let his guard down almost in defiance of the authorities.  In the end it was a woman, dressed in orange, not red, who turned against him on a hoped for recommendation that she would not be deported from the country.  The book is slightly over 400 pages long, but if you enjoy gangster books, this is an action-filled volume you are sure to enjoy.	2004-08-21
US	51749393	R33ZJ2QOQ6GROZ	0385507488	148160224	Ted Williams: The Biography of an American Hero	Books	5	41	43	N	N	The Definitive Biography of Ted Williams	What Richard Cramer did for a biography on Joe DiMaggio, Leigh Montville has done for a biography on Ted Williams.  The book is nearly 500 pages long, and I remained riveted to it until I finished it in a few days.  All facets of Ted's personality, warts and all, are included in providing us with information on Ted's dysfunctional family, his love of fishing on the Florida Keys and the Miramichi River in New Brunswick, his initial success in managing the Washington Senators, his hair trigger temper that produced a string of profanities, his difficulties with his marriage partners, and his experiences in  World War II and the Korean War.  In regard to baseball his obsession with hitting led to his goal of being known as the greatest hitter that ever lived.  Ted paid the price to reach his goal in studying hitting as no other hitter has ever done before.  He enjoyed picking the brain of Hall of Famer Rogers Hornsby who told Williams the secret in hitting is getting a good ball to hit.  By this he meant getting ahead in the count (2-0 or 3-1) so the pitcher was put in a situation where he would throw the pitch you, the batter, would be looking for to hit.  The book is full of anecdotes of Williams's teammates and opponents from his playing days.  It also includes the controversial freezing of Williams's body by son John Henry and sister Claudia while Williams's first child, Bobby-Jo opposed it.  Whether Ted, himself, approved of this is left open to question.  To me, an interesting story is told by one of his nurses, Virginia Hiley-Self, a Christian, said that Ted Williams accepted the fact that God forgives and provides eternal life.  \\"He prayed,\\" Hiley-Self says.  \\"He knew that Christ was his savior.\\"  I have read other biographies of \\"Teddy Ballgame\\", but this effort by Leigh Montville stands above the others.  Williams's last few years were marred by poor health, but he lived a full life serving his country in two wars, carving out a Hall of Fame baseball career, and fishing for game fish on the Florida Keys and for salmon on the Miramichi River.  His was a life fully lived and Leigh Montville has done a wonderful job in presenting all sides of the personality of Ted Williams.  To me, this rates as the top baseball book of the year, and maybe even the top biography of anyone for the year.nd fishing for game fish on the Florida Keys and for salmon on the Miramichi River.  His was a life fully lived and Leigh Montville has done a wonderful job in presenting all sides of the personality of Ted Williams.  To me, this rates as the top baseball book of the year, and maybe even the top biography of anyone for the year.	2004-08-08
US	51749393	R3IMNSDEK0AQM3	0312321392	309544253	1603: The Death of Queen Elizabeth I, the Return of the Black Plague, the Rise of Shakespeare, Piracy, Witchcraft, and the Birth of the Stuart Era	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Rating Based On My Limited Background	The year 1603 was a busy year in England, and author Christopher Lee has provided us with a rather in-depth account of the happenings that took place.  Beginning with the death of Queen Elizabeth I which brought the rise of James VI of Scotland who became King James I of England, Lee brings the reader through other events that were taking place during this time, namely the return of the plague which reared its ugly head periodically to wipe out thousands of people, piracy on the seas, William Shakespeare and his plays, and witchcraft which already at that time was an old superstition.  Almost half of the book's 356 pages deal with the death of Queen Elizabeth and the rise of King  James.  My background in this subject matter is negligible, so I base my rating on the interest this book had for me.  I found difficulty with the diaries and notes that the author uses to quote from due to the way the people expressed themselves.  If you have a better background in this subject matter than I do, you probably will enjoy the book more than I did.  If your background is like mine, you may want to read it, but not purchase it.	2004-07-26
US	51749393	R1WAPQVCZC105K	0060562331	358978550	American Jezebel: The Uncommon Life of Anne Hutchinson, the Woman Who Defied the Puritans	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Interesting Story Of A Neglected Person In History	Anne Hutchinson, a woman, if you please, had the audacity to question the beliefs of John Winthrop and the Puritans in the Massachusetts Bay Colony. Hutchinson, whom Winthrop called \\"an instrument of Satan\\", acquired a following while preaching God's grace for salvation rather than achieving it through good works, which Winthrop and most other ministers viewed as an encouragement to \\"do nothing\\" and still expect salvation. Hutchinson's confidence while in the courtroom galled her accusers as they struggled to find something to justify their disgust with her contrary viewpoint. Having been banished from Massachusetts Hutchinson moved to the island of Aquidneck which was then Rhode Island. Hutchinson and six of her children were killed by Siwanoy Indians in what is now part of Pelham Bay Park of the present-day Bronx, New York in 1643. Her nine-year old daughter, Susan, was out picking blueberries at the time and hid in what is called the Split Rock. She was captured and adopted by the Indians, and later returned to Boston and married. The book includes a few maps which prove to be helpful, but I would have liked if pictures had been available of some of the places that were part of her life. I found the book to be worth while to read, but I did find some of the religious rhetoric hard to follow at times.	2004-07-21
US	51749393	R1DWEMCWVJ8OT6	0810943425	974141256	Summer in the City: New York Baseball 1947-1957	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	The Photographs Make The Book	There have been numerous books written on New York baseball, but, at least for me, it is the photographs that make this a unique baseball book.  I have vivid memories of the World Series of the 1950's, and all except 1959 involved at least one of the teams in New York City.  The New York Yankees and Brooklyn Dodgers series were classics, and will always be remembered.  I enjoyed the descriptive writing of New York Daily News writer Dick Young.  When Duke Snider made a wide turn at 3rd base in coming home, Young wrote, \\"Duke, who is a poor base-runner for a man of his superior speed, took the scenic route home...He was out by some 20 feet.\\"  Many of the photos brought back the names of players and umpires of my youth.  The photographs illustrate how small the dugouts were in that era.  Fans are predominantly dressed in suit coats, ties, and fedoras.  Also of interest are photos of fans leaving the park via the playing field, and photographers near home plate photographing the action.  Photographs of Ebbets Field and the Polo Grounds show views from above the playing field in addition to close ups of the center field area of the Polo Grounds and the center and right field areas of Ebbets Field with the advertising on the wall are also of interest.  I am a fan of the Detroit Tigers, but I will always have precious memories of those historic New York teams in addition to the arenas they played in.  The text is nice, but it is the photos that make this book unique.	2004-07-09
US	51749393	R2F53KWC2OQFOF	0268022852	938581915	Ed Delahanty in the Emerald Age of Baseball	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Lessons To Be Learned	Jerrold Casway has provided us with an in-depth study of 19th century baseball star Ed Delahanty.  Like so many other athletes in his time Delahanty lived for today rather than postpone immediate gratification for a greater future reward.  The lure of the racetrack while wintering in New Orleans and later alcohol were contributing factors leading up to the decline of this once great superstar.  &quot;The Only Del&quot; toiled for unheralded losing teams such as the Philadelphia Phillies and the Washington Senators.  Baseball wars were on and Delahanty had the problem of not caring how many contracts he signed as long as he played with the team that offered him the most money.  I felt the author did a good job of sorting through the possibilities regarding Delahanty's death on the International Bridge crossing the Niagara River between Fort Erie, Ontario, and Buffalo, New York.  Delahanty was removed from the train for abusive behavior, and from what information we have available it appears that he stumbled over railroad ties in an effort to elude the bridge watchman.  His body was discovered below the Canadian Horseshoe Falls in the Niagara River one week later on July 9th.  This was an era in which the owners had it all their way, and players had no financial benefits that today's players enjoy.  Players usually reentered the regular workforce once their playing days were over.  Delahanty, however, lived lavishly during his playing days without a thought to his post-playing days.  Information is also provided on his baseball playing brothers in addition to his wife and daughter after Ed's death.  If you enjoy 19th century baseball history I believe this is another book from that colorful age that you will find enjoyable to read.	2004-07-04
US	51749393	R2W1D3GUQEO1UM	0471477532	786017252	Edward R. Murrow and the Birth of Broadcast Journalism (Turning Points in History)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	The Birth of Broadcast Journalism	Edward R. Murrow is to broadcasting news just as Red Barber is to broadcasting baseball.  The book is at once a brief history of a new and quicker way of delivering news to people during a critical time in the world's history in addition to profiles of other Murrow Boys such as Howard K. Smith, Richard C. Hottelet, William Shirer, Eric Sevareid, Charles Collingwood, and other members who reported on World War II.  Murrow's vivid descriptions of The Battle of Britian during August and September of 1940, and the Buchenwald death camp in 1945 showcase him for what he is, a reporter.  Murrow and Bill Shirer had a falling out which Murrow later wanted to patch up, but Shirer would change the subject.  Shirer felt Murrow was jealous that his book The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich outsold Murrow's This Is London, while Murrow felt Shirer had grown complacent in his broadcasts.  CBS boss William Paley released Shirer from employment.  It's sad that two Giants who reported on World War II had this unfortunate falling out.  The book is only 166 pages long, and is certainly worth your time.	2004-06-26
US	51749393	R1CP7RDWWXHP6W	1401300235	64738031	Defending Baltimore Against Enemy Attack: A Boyhood Year During World War II	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Dripping With Nostalgia	Charles Osgood goes back a few years before me, but I can still relate to his experiences of growing up in the 1940's.  Although he did live through World War II, the problems that children confronted in his childhood were of a more innocent nature than what children must deal with today.  Osgood enjoyed subjects like literature, poetry, and geography in school, and enjoyed playing games with friends involving initials of movie stars or geographical locations.  Following the then minor Baltimore Orioles was another passion of his youth as was listening to programs on the radio where the size of the picture was limited only by your imagination.  Sadly, geography, a favorite subject of Osgood's elementary school career is in sad decline in today's school systems.  If you are of this era you will love this 139 page effort.  If not, let Osgood take you back to decades past to a simpler time in America and the innocence of childhood.  Let him take you back to a time when children had time to be a child.	2004-06-18
US	51749393	R1RKAKA8099S3N	1894963040	848347619	The Rise and Fall of the Press Box	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Koppett's Books Are First Rate	When it comes to sports books a book by writers such as Roger Kahn, Roger Angell, Fred Lieb, or Leonard Koppett you can be fairly certain you are in for a book that will educate as well as entertain you.  If his final effort before his death Leonard Koppett tells us how the importance of the press box in which so many writers brought fans the news of the events on the field has changed over the last several decades.  Print was the medium in which information was initially passed from reporter to fan.  The advent of radio brought a new medium which supplemented newspapers.  Now television brings information to us practically instantaneously, and many of the newspapers that used to serve the major cities in previous decades have gone out of business.  The book is sprinkled with humorous anecdotes regarding some of the literary giants who populated the sporting scene throughout the 20th century.  Koppett popularized the use of statistics in his columns written as a correspondent for The Sporting News, but he also provides examples how statistics can be misused or misleading.  Ron Fairly and Koppett were discussing the high batting average of bunter Brett Butler when Fairly stated, &quot;If you took away his bunts and dribblers he'd be hitting .260.&quot;  Koppett answered, &quot;Sure, and if you took away his outs, he'd be hitting 1.000.&quot;  Pitch counts citing the number of strikes and balls is also deceiving, because it assumes every pitch swung at is a strike.  He says the correct statistic should say, &quot;96 pitches, 32 hit fair, 27 strikes (called or swung at and missed) or fouls, 37 balls.&quot;  Koppett also covers the New York teams in all sports that he covered for the New York Times.  After working in New York for several years he then moved to Palo Alto, California, and covered the New York teams when they came to play in California.  This is not a traditional sports book, but concentrates on a newspaperman's view of the sporting scene and how the coverage of sports has changed over the years.  The book contains 53 chapters, but each one is only from five to eight pages long.  If you feel this subject would be of interest to you, I'm sure you would enjoy the book since you are reading it from a quality author.age of sports has changed over the years.  The book contains 53 chapters, but each one is only from five to eight pages long.  If you feel this subject would be of interest to you, I'm sure you would enjoy the book since you are reading it from a quality author.	2004-06-14
US	51749393	R3CT8NCE4UJJJ	1582615292	276761094	Bill Madden: My 25 Years Covering Baseball's Heroes, Scoundrels, Triumphs and Tragedies	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Madden's Collection from The Daily News	New York Daily News sportswriter Bill Madden has provided us with a collection of his columns from the past 25 years.  I like that the book is divided into chapters such as Remembered Friends, Scoops and Exclusives, Villains and Scoundrels, Tragedies and Travesties, and Colorful Characters to mention a few.  I enjoy reading about events and people who were once part of the baseball scene that I remember.  Most, but not all, involve the Yankees.  You don't have to be a Yankees' fan, I'm not, but I still enjoy reading the articles of sportswriters in different parts of the country.  If you are a fan of the Yankees, you will especially enjoy the book.	2004-06-01
US	51749393	R3VURENYJW8X6R	073930397X	586173981	Don't Know Much About History - Updated and Revised Edition: Everything You Need to Know about American History But Never Learned	Books	5	13	19	N	N	You'll Know Something About History	Author Kenneth Davis has provided the reader with over 600 pages covering a concise history of the American republic.  Yes, I do agree with other reviewers that Davis is biased in some instances, but it may also be that he is just calling the shots as he sees them.  President Eisenhower is criticized for his look-the other-way attitude towards civil rights, and quotes Ike as saying that appointing Earl Warren as chief justice of the United States was &quot;the biggest damnfool mistake I every made.&quot;  This came after Warren was instrumental in advancing civil rights of blacks.  Should we not know Eisenhower's attitude in this regard?  A courageous stance by this popular president may have done a lot of good, but Ike chose  the easy way out.  A couple of other quotes I enjoyed in the book may speak of bias, but I found them to be worth remembering.  The earthy Lyndon Johnson saying of Gerald Ford:  &quot;Shucks, I don't think he can chew gum and walk at the same time....He's a nice fellow, but he spent too much time playing football without a helmet.&quot;  The line I like the best will hit a nerve with a lot of people, I'm sure, but it was attributed to Soviet leader Joseph Stalin while you might want to assign it to former Chicago mayoral windbag, Big Bill Thompson, New York City political fixer William &quot;Boss&quot; Tweed, or someone else who may come to mind.  It reads as follows:  &quot;Those who cast the votes decide nothing.  Those who count the votes decide everything.&quot;  To sum up the book I would say the United States of America has to be a great country to survive a great number of the presidents that have been at the helm throughout its history.  Scandals of one kind or another have plagued several administrations while others have been highlighted by mediocrity.  I found the book to be both informative and entertaining.  It took me a week to pioneer my way through it, but it was worth the time.	2004-05-24
US	51749393	R8SW4J5NR0HUQ	1572435690	356949259	Center Field on Fire: An Umpire's Life with Pine tar Bats, Spitballs, and Corked Personalities	Books	3	7	11	N	Y	Dave Phillips Call Them As He Sees Them	Former umpire Dave Phillips provides us with a number of anecdotes from his 32 years umpiring major league baseball.  Many of the stories are funny, and the book is intended to be light reading of his experiences in dealing with controversial incidents, various managers, and umpires.  The book takes its title from Disco Demolition Night in Comiskey Park when fires were set in the outfield to burn disco records between games of a twi-night doubleheader between the White Sox and Tigers.  Phillips doesn't appreciate his experiences with senior umpires such as Nestor Chylak and Larry Napp, who Phillips felt were not helpful to young umpires.  He does express his appreciation of those such as Bill Haller who helped his career.  As other books of this sort Phillips give his opinions on the DH (doesn't like it), a salary cap for baseball, World Series games starting earlier so the games end before midnight, and other issues baseball is facing.  He feels, probably correctly, that baseball is in trouble unless positive steps are taken to correct its problems.  The book is light reading, would hardly rate as a future classic, and I'm sure Phillips didn't intend it to be.  It is an enjoyable quick read, and we are provided with his experiences with many baseball personalities we are all familiar with.	2004-05-15
US	51749393	R23JBNZA4P02E1	1582617635	621624508	The Memoirs of Bing Devine: Stealing Lou Brock and Other Brilliant Moves by a Master G.M.	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Bing Devine:  A Respected Member of the Cardinals	Bing Devine became the General Manager of the St. Louis Cardinals in 1958, and I fondly remember those Cardinals teams from the 1960's onward.  We have heard about the Cardinals in books from Harry Caray, Jack Buck, Bob Gibson, Bob Broeg, and others.  Missing has been the story of their marvelous General Manager, Bing Devine.  Just as Bill Veeck will always be associated with Eddie Gaedel, Bing Devine will always be associated with the acquisition of Lou Brock from the Chicago Cubs in 1964 in exchange for pitcher Ernie Broglio.  It was Devine that brought together the 1964 All-Star game starting infield of Boyer, Groat, Javier, and White.  The latter three all acquired in trades by Devine.  Devine provides us with his viewpoint of his mid-season firing in 1964 when his team then went on to win the National League pennant and the World Series against the Yankees.  Manager Johnny Keane was to be fired at the end of the season, before the team fooled owner Gussie Busch and won it all.  Devine also explains his tenious relationship with Branch Rickey who Mr. Busch had brought in as a \\"senior consultant.\\"  I knew that Mr. Busch was unhappy with GM Devine and manager Johnny Keane due to a problem with shortstop Dick Groat, but I never knew the reason for it.  Groat was unhappy that Keane had taken away permission from Groat to use the hit-and-run play on his own.  Busch got word there was a problem with Groat, but Devine, believing the problem had been solved, didn't tell Busch when Busch asked him if he had anything to tell him. Devine then went on to join the New York Mets for three years before being rehired again as GM of the Cardinals.  Devine also explains his dislike of being ordered by Mr. Busch to trade pitchers Steve Carlton and Jerry Reuss against Devine's better judgment.  Bing Devine does not bad mouth anybody in the book.  He just gives his opinions regarding the trading of players, and his relationships with the people he has worked with over the years.  As a measure of the respect Devine is held, he is now 88 years old and still is involved in an active capacity with his beloved Cardinals.  St. Louis has a tremendous baseball tradition and history, and Bing Devine is responsible for a great part of it.  Thank you, Mr. Devine, for this book.  We needed to hear your viewpoint.a measure of the respect Devine is held, he is now 88 years old and still is involved in an active capacity with his beloved Cardinals.  St. Louis has a tremendous baseball tradition and history, and Bing Devine is responsible for a great part of it.  Thank you, Mr. Devine, for this book.  We needed to hear your viewpoint.	2004-05-13
US	51749393	R1OORK5YA9IEDO	074325547X	828250107	Plan of Attack	Books	5	27	36	N	N	Final Chapter Is Yet To Be Written	Bob Woodward of The Washington Post has provided us with a behind the scenes view of President George Bush and his inner circle as they prepare for war against Iraq.  I get the impression that Bush was determined to go to war, and didn't bother to ask for Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld's opinion on the matter, and didn't like what Secretary of State Colin Powell had to say regarding the matter.  It appears that the reason for going to war, WMD, don't exist after all, and the evidence to support it was not the &quot;slam dunk&quot; that CIA director George Tenet claimed it to be.  I felt Woodward gave both sides to the matter and let the president have his say regarding questions the author posed to him.  How history treats President Bush and his decision to go to war will not be known for some period of time.  The first indication will be in this fall's election.  The book is very worth while regarding a matter we should all familiarize ourselves with.	2004-05-09
US	51749393	R2HIJEE3J6OLWR	1581823789	193228280	Guns and Roses: The Untold Story of Dean O'Banion, Chicago's Big Shot Before Al Capone	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Dean and His North Side Cohorts	Even though I have read numerous other books on Chicago's infamous past during the prohibition years I found Rose Keefe's effort entitled Guns and Roses to be another fascinating read which is primarily devoted to Al Capone's North Side rivals.  O'Banion's loss of his mother at an early age and subsequent move to a seedy section of Chicago contributed to Dean's alliance with the city's criminal element.  The warring parties were driven by greed in invading each other's assigned territory during the beer wars.  After the assassination of O'Banion in his florist shop in 1924 a number of his friends (Weiss, Drucci, and Moran) all had short terms heading the North Side mob.  Weiss and Drucci being shot and Moran having his gang virtually wiped out at the St. Valentine's Day Massacre on February 14, 1929.  If you have read other books on this subject you can prepare yourself to enjoy yet another offering on the subject with this book.  In addition, this book has photographs I have not seen in other books.  I'm sure you won't be disappointed.	2004-05-01
US	51749393	RNBEYU5P8475J	1932407103	599819698	Why I Love Baseball	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Larry King Discusses His Favorite Subject	It's a well known fact that Larry King has a special place in his heart for the Brooklyn Dodgers, and is now a fan of the Baltimore Orioles.  Larry provides us with his sentimental reasons why he loves the game of baseball.  I, along with him, share that devotion.  Larry quotes former Cardinals' star Enos Slaughter as saying he deliberately spiked Jackie Robinson when running down to first base in Robinson's initial 1947 season.  This is interesting since Slaughter has denied he deliberately did it in other books.  King also mentions he believes the Jewish Hank Greenberg of the Tigers was deliberately walked during the final month of the season so he wouldn't break Babe Ruth's home run record.  Numerous quotes from various players and managers in addition to anecdotes are provided that can be found in several other books.  I did find a few mistakes in the book.  The first cover of Sports Illustrated showing Eddie Matthews of the Milwaukee Braves batting was taken in County Stadium in Milwaukee, not in St. Louis as King mentions.  Also, two of the lines from Terry Cashman's popular 1981 song, &quot;Talkin' Baseball&quot; are incorrect.  The line &quot;And Alexander's pitchin' baseballs in Washington&quot; should read &quot;And the Great Alexander is pitchin' again in Washington.&quot;  The other line given incorrectly is &quot;Seaver, Tommy John, and Vida Blue.&quot;  It should read,  &quot;Seaver, Garvey, Schmidt, and Vida Blue.&quot;  The final mistake I found involved Tigers' pitcher Bob Cain pitching to the midget Eddie Gaedel in August of 1951.  The book reads &quot;Bob Cain got down on his knees to throw the pitch. The catcher sprawled prone to catch the pitch.&quot;  The photo of this at bat in other books shows Tigers' catcher Bob Swift on his knees to receive Cain's pitches to Gaedel.  Cain did not pitch from his knees.  Several pages of the book are devoted to baseball writer Tom Boswell's &quot;99 Reasons Why Baseball Is Better than Football.&quot;  King believes Pete Rose should be voted into Baseball's Hall of Fame but &quot;not be let back in baseball again, certainly not to manage.&quot;  King also discusses the labor problems in baseball, and believes each team should have a minimum payroll of $70 million and anything over $90 million should pay a tax.  I don't disagree with Larry King's love of baseball; I share it.  This is a very quick read book, and Larry provides several convincing reasons why baseball is the number one game in America.  If you're looking for any in depth information on the game of baseball, Larry didn't write this book for you.  You will have to look elsewhere.elieves Pete Rose should be voted into Baseball's Hall of Fame but &quot;not be let back in baseball again, certainly not to manage.&quot;  King also discusses the labor problems in baseball, and believes each team should have a minimum payroll of $70 million and anything over $90 million should pay a tax.  I don't disagree with Larry King's love of baseball; I share it.  This is a very quick read book, and Larry provides several convincing reasons why baseball is the number one game in America.  If you're looking for any in depth information on the game of baseball, Larry didn't write this book for you.  You will have to look elsewhere.	2004-04-23
US	51749393	RUXUHIJYS8O8E	0071432442	439519855	Babe Ruth : Launching the Legend	Books	4	12	12	N	N	1920--A Pivotal Year in Baseball	While it is true 1920 is the year Babe Ruth began his assault on American League pitchers with his batting prowess as a member of the New York Yankees, the year also was known for the unraveling of the fixed 1919 World Series, the hiring of baseball's first commissioner, Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis, and the death of Cleveland Indians' shortstop Ray Chapman by one of Yankees' pitcher Carl Mays's submarine deliveries.  It is often said the Babe's home run bat saved the game of baseball from the Black Sox Scandal, but people flocked to the park to see Ruth as a member of the Yankees in 1920 before the scandal broke in September of that year.  The unfortunate death of Chapman is also dealt with in some detail.  Carl Mays was a very unpopular player not only among rival players, but his own teammates as well.  He was, however, absolved of any blame for intentionally hitting Chapman with the pitch.  Mays won 26 games for the 1920 Yankees and compiled a better won lost record (209-126) than several Hall of Famers, but has been denied a place in baseball's hallowed halls.  We are also provided with character profiles of Yankees' owners Colonel Jacob Rupert and Tillinghast &quot;Cap&quot; Huston, manager Miller Huggins, Judge Landis, White Sox owner Charles Comiskey, and American League President Ban Johnson.  The hiring of Landis put an end to any power that Johnson wielded in the American League.  Even though it didn't happen until 1925 the author also mentions the matter of Wally Pipp's famous &quot;headache&quot; which caused him to sit out a game and was replaced by Lou Gehrig in the lineup who remained there for the next 14 years.  In reality, Pipp's &quot;headache&quot; was a fractured skull due to being hit with a pitched ball in a previous game.  Ruth remains the main focus in the book with his introduction of a new type of baseball that made Giants' manager John McGraw and Ty Cobb scorn the new type of baseball the Babe was now introducing.  Both McGraw and Cobb appeared to be jealous of the attention Ruth was commanding in the newspapers.  This book tells you more about what some of baseball's principal characters were like during this time period.  The author concludes the book with a &quot;what became of&quot; several of the principal characters.  My only complaint about the book is that at times the book got into too much of a play-by-play on some of the games the author covered.  I've read much of what is in this book in other volumes, but I still found it to be interesting reading.appeared to be jealous of the attention Ruth was commanding in the newspapers.  This book tells you more about what some of baseball's principal characters were like during this time period.  The author concludes the book with a &quot;what became of&quot; several of the principal characters.  My only complaint about the book is that at times the book got into too much of a play-by-play on some of the games the author covered.  I've read much of what is in this book in other volumes, but I still found it to be interesting reading.	2004-04-21
US	51749393	R3D36D1SR9PUZO	1891620983	81792354	Great White Fathers: The Story of the Obsessive Quest to Create Mount Rushmore	Books	4	9	9	N	N	An Interesting Book on A Controversial Monument	Author John Taliaferro has provided us with an interesting and controversial history of Mount Rushmore.  The first part of the book is a general history of the area encompassed by the Great Sioux Reservation of which the Black Hills of South Dakota is included.  I found this general history to be a good summary of the conflict between the Native Americans and the American government.  During the early 1920's South Dakota historian Doane Robinson wanted a monument of significance in the central part of the country for Americans to visit.  Enter Gutzon Borglum who was running into difficulties on his Stone Mountain project in Georgia.  The author delves into the strengths and weakness of Borglum as a man and as a sculptor.  The project proved to be overly ambitious and ended up being a scaled down version of what was originally intended.  The author provides us with numerous tidbits of information as to why the four individuals were chosen to be enshrined and the difficulties in carving their faces.  Since Mount Rushmore is on land claimed by the Native Americans, part of the book includes the controversy between what some view as a monument to American democracy while others view it as honoring four individuals who have poor historical dealings with Native Americans.  Depending on your point of view Mount Rushmore is either a sight for sore eyes or an eyesore.  The book, while controversial, is an interesting read.  I did find one mistake.  On page 43 the author states the Wounded Knee massacre took place on December 28, 1890.  The actual date was December 29, 1890.  If you are interested in the history of the Black Hills of South Dakota and Mount Rushmore I would recommend it to you as a book I'm sure you would enjoy.	2004-04-12
US	51749393	R1UZP1E4PEDSL9	1572435046	980970417	Wire to Wire: Inside the 1984 Detroit Tigers Championship Season	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Hardly An In Depth Book	George Cantor covered the 1968 Detroit Tigers as a baseball writer, and the 1984 Tigers as a general news writer and as a fan.  I read the book in two sittings.  The author covers the 1984 season through the first 146 pages, and the last 14 on the decline and fall of this storied franchise through the 1990's and the Randy Smith era as general manager, the mistakes made in building Comerica Park, the neglect of the farm system, and a comparison of the '68 and '84 Tigers.  An interesting tidbit was General Manager Jim Campbell calling former owner John Fetzer and telling him he feels a mistake was made in selling the team to Tom Monagham who had more pressing concerns occupying his time than the Detroit Tigers.  The final part of the book is over 60 pages of box scores of the first 40 games.  It appears this was added to fill out the book.  What is in the main text of the book is okay, but this is hardly a book that would compare with books written by David Halberstam that focus on a team of a particular year such as \\"The Summer of '49.\\"  I wanted this book to be a good one because I have been a fan of the Tigers since 1951, and thoroughly enjoyed both the Tigers' 1968 and 1984 championships.  However, I have to admit to being disappointed.  The cover is certainly eye catching, but this proves you can't judge a book by its cover.	2004-04-08
US	51749393	R196S7MSXCXAWP	0805056866	410651536	Eisenhower: A Soldier's Life	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Everything You Wanted To Know About Ike	Carlo D'este has followed up his work on General Patton with a biography of General Eisenhower which cover his life through World War II.  The book is 705 pages long not counting the notes, and will take some time to pioneer your way through.  I found the book to be interesting, but have to admit I was glad when I finally finished it.  You will learn a great deal about Eisenhower the young boy and his competitive attitude which contributed to his qualities of leadership.  The responsibilities he had thrust upon him throughout his military life brought on an addictive smoking habit that would later lead to health problems.  Juggling the egos of George Patton, Omar Bradley, Bernard Montgomery, and others proved to be a challenge and strain on Eisenhower as he directed the allied forces through Europe.  Patience and restraint were often needed when it may have been helpful for Eisenhower to vent his frustrations.  Ike's relationship with his driver, Kay Summersby, is dealt with in some detail.  They were very good friends, but there is no evidence of a consummated romantic relationship.  I'm not going to rehash the book in this review.  Suffice it to say if you want to learn about America's man in command of World War II this book will provide you with ample information of both Eisenhower the man and the soldier.	2004-04-03
US	51749393	R2H6Z2V5NCUFJ4	0393051447	550346223	Khrushchev: The Man and His Era	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Informative and Readable Biography	Not including the notes this is a 651 page biography on the former Russian leader.  I was somewhat intimidated by the size of the book, but since my knowledge of the man is limited to what I remember of him during the 1950's and early '60's I decided to give the book a try.  I was plesantly surprised to find the book to be very readable and interesting.  Khrushchev comes across as a man from humble origins with a very limited education.  Perhaps this helps to explain his bluster and bravado in dealing with other individuals to cover up his insecurities.  He denounced Stalin following the dictator's death in 1953 even though Khrushchev himself was responsible along with others for the death of numerous individuals during the Soviet purges.  I found paranoia to reign supreme among Khrushchev and other party leaders as they back-stabbed one another due to envy and fear.  With the election of John Kennedy to the United States presidency in 1960 Khrushchev resorted to his usual attempt to browbeat another, and tried to take advantage of Kennedy's inexperience by smuggling missles into Cuba.  Kennedy stood up to the Russian leader's bluster, and Khrushchev backed down.  While Khrushchev claimed victory back home, in reality, others in Russia knew better.  Russia's bullying tactics had failed.  Cuban dictator Fidel Castro had harsh words for Khrushchev for not standing up to the United States.  Khrushchev's behavior could be gross and embarrassing to others in social situations in addition to those well-known tactics he engaged in at the United Nations. After being forced out of office in 1964 Khrushchev didn't adapt well to retirement.  His friends, if he had any among party leaders, didn't have anything to do with him.  He did some reading and fishing, but it was walking and gardening that he enjoyed the most.  It must have been a shock to have too much to do to not having enough to do.  The Russian leader died of heart failure in 1971 at the age of 78.  I would suggest reading about 50-75 pages at a time.  The book is long, but it is well rewarding.reading about 50-75 pages at a time.  The book is long, but it is well rewarding.	2004-03-14
US	51749393	R198HWRXHCJ6D5	1581823290	429882044	The St. Valentine's Day Massacre: The Untold Story of the Gangland Bloodbath That Brought Down Al Capone	Books	5	16	20	N	Y	A Culminating Event That Backfired	William Helmer, author of the recent page turner on Baby Face Nelson, along with Arthur Bilek, have provided us with another superb effort on the infamous St. Valentine's Day Massacre just in time for its 75th anninversary.  This brazen event was not pleasing to the New York mob because it drew too much attention to federal authorities and the public in general.  Although Al Capone didn't know it at the time his heyday as the Chicago crime czar were on the downswing, with Frank Nitti ready to take his place.  Many of the details have remained under wraps for many years, and the authors state the book is largely &quot;the product of the personal memories and cooperative interrogations of Georgette Winkeler&quot; whose husband Gus was involved with &quot;his partners in crime.&quot;  All the characters of the 1920's and early 1930's Chicago crime era are here in all their infamy.  The authors show how ballistic evidence was used to identify two machine guns that Fred &quot;Killer&quot; Burke had in his possession when he was arrested for the murder of a police officer in St. Joseph, Michigan, as being guns used in the St. Valentine's Day Massacre.  The authors relate how J. Edgar Hoover closed his mind to the existence of any organized crime, instead focusing on two bit hoodlums such as Dillinger, Nelson, and Floyd.  Hoover comes across as a ego maniac who became disgustingly jealous of the recognition that came agent Melvin Purvis's way following the killing of John Dillinger.  Hoover had Purvis &quot;reassigned&quot;, and Purvis finallly quit the F.B.I. in frustration.  Hoover then made it a point to make sure Purvis could not find any other work in law enforcement.  Finally when Purvis died of a gunshot wound in 1960, the F.B.I. made it seem as though it was a suicide, even though evidence showed it to be accidental.  Even though you may be well versed in Chicago crime lore you will find new information in this book, and want to make it a permanent part of your personal library.  I did find a few spelling errors that got by the editor, but it in no way detracts from the book.rsonal library.  I did find a few spelling errors that got by the editor, but it in no way detracts from the book.	2004-02-13
US	51749393	RMZU18SSVOFF4	0805072101	506093636	American Mafia: A History of Its Rise to Power (John MacRae Books)	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	The Infamous Shady Characters Are All Here	Author Thomas Reppetto has provided us with an interesting history on the rise of the mafia in America, and the reasons for its demise from its once lofty perch.  The man behind its beginnings was Johnny Torrio who transferred his operations from New York to Chicago in the early 1920's.  The book concentrates mainly on the New York and Chicago areas, but does include Las Vegas and other areas as well.  Certain thugs were removed from the scene due to various reasons such as Jim Colosimo who didn't adjust to the times (prohibition), Dion O'Bannion due to cheating on a business deal, Al Capone and Owney Madden due to bad publicity, Dutch Schultz due to reckless behavior, and others due to various mistakes such as maintaining a high profile.  J. Edgar Hoover of the F.B.I. ignored any investigation of the mafia.  Instead he concentrated on two bit hoodlums such as \\"Pretty Boy\\" Floyd, \\"Baby Face\\" Nelson, and John Dillinger who robbed banks during the 1930's.  The first half of the 20th century saw the rise of the mafia while the second half of the century saw its fall.  The Kefauver Committee began investigating organized crime in 1950 and the advent of television in urban areas brought interviews with mobsters such as Frank Costello to the forefront of the public.  Although mobsters can find new fields in which to operate, today's organized crime is a shadow of what it once was.  This book brings the names of the infamous back to life from the time of the beginnings of the 1920's through the removal of the New York mobsters in the 1980's.  Even if you are familiar with the names of Luciano, Rothstein, Genovese, Giancana, and others you will find this a very interesting book to read.  I would highly recommend it to you.	2004-02-08
US	51749393	RTFAQQCZYFZHS	0375415416	39707770	Love and Hate in Jamestown: John Smith, Pocahontas, and the Heart of a New Nation	Books	5	16	20	N	N	A Readable Book of Interest to All	Love and Hate in Jamestown is an appropriate title for this fascinating book.  Details of the love between John Rolfe and Pocahontas that developed into marriage, a trip to England, and her untimely death are provided.  We are also provided with details of the uneasy relationship between the native Americans and the English settlers as they each tried to put up a front of friendship with the other.  If the book has a hero, it would be John Smith who dealt with the environment in Jamestown, Virginia, as it was, not as the settlers wanted it to be.  Many of the settlers were &quot;gentlemen&quot; who knew nothing about getting their hands dirty in work.  Looking for gold was first and foremost in their minds.  Among the settlers were workers and shirkers.  Initially, food was provided for all from a common storehouse, but this method didn't encourage everyone to do their share of work.  Jealously and envy were enemies of the settlers as to who they wanted as a leader.  Not only was there hate towards the common enemy, the native Americans, but towards each other as well.  Author David Price believes the story of Smith being saved by Pocahontas to be authentic.  History is about people who lived in a different period under different circumstances.  This is the story of America's beginnings told in a most effective manner.	2004-02-03
US	51749393	R1ZE6P3CAPHJOP	0595259332	173965986	The Sweater Letter	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Great Reading--You Won't Be Disappointed	Author Dave Distel has written a gripping account of an investigation of a woman shot under suspicious circumstances in November of 1992.  Distel provides us with the tense agony experienced by the murderer as he is being investigated and questioned regarding his whereabouts at the time of the killing.  Problems mount upon problems as he desperately tries to avoid facing his investigators, while trying to drum up support from acquaintances of his.  I didn't read the book in one sitting, but did hate to put it down whenever I had to.  It was especially meaningful to me since I am familiar with a few of the individuals involved in the story.  An interesting portrait of defense attorney Thomas Casselman is painted for us not only in his courtroom behavior, but his recreational activities as well.  I did come across two minor errors in the book:  1. On page 106, the name of Dennis Napes should be Dennis Mapes.  2. Page 269 mentions the Salem witch hunts as having taken place in 1604.  The actual year was 1692.  As another reviewer mention, we need pictures of the individuals involved.  Whenever reading a book I always like to see photographs of the major characters, and any other necessary sites related to the story.  I have no idea of what the murderer and his wife's relatives look like.  This book is well worth your time.  I purchased multiple copies to give to friends as well.	2004-01-25
US	51749393	R2F4ZHNV03U71Z	0786712503	208550061	Rothstein: The Life, Times, and Murder of the Criminal Genius Who Fixed the 1919 World Series	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Arnold Rothstein--A Lonely Man	After reading David Pietrusza's book on Arnold Rothstein I have come to the conclusion that Rothstein was a man with only one love in his life, that of gambling.  He doesn't appear to be an individual who was able to develop any genuine feelings of affection to another human being.  Any interest in another person was limited to what they were able to do for Arnold.  His only interest in sports was limited to what the gambling odds were.  Although married he spent his evenings, not at home, but sitting at a table at Lindy's Restaurant conversing with business associates, not friends.  The author also relates Rothstein's role in developing the drug trade in America.  Gambling and bootlegging were activities that you need not be embarrassed about.  Trafficing in drugs, however, was something that was considered dirty and he masked his interest in the drug trade.  The book also goes into  detail of Rothstein's role in the 1919 World Series and others involved in the crooked World Series.  Details of Rothstein's death by shooting in the Park Central Hotel in New York by George McManus are also provided.  The author admits that some of the details are speculation, and will never be known for sure.  This is a book that will take you back to the era of turn of 20th century New York and through the 1920's.  It is also the story of people from the world of sports, theatre, politics, and the gangsters that made up this time period.  The book is most certainly worth your time and money.	2004-01-17
US	51749393	R1MOJ7989N365	1555535615	813699587	The First World Series and the Baseball Fanatics of 1903	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	More Information Needed on this First World Series	I found this to be an enjoyable book to read in two sittings.  I do think the title is somewhat misleading.  The book is only 208 pages long with not a whole lot having to do with the World Series.  Some of the book is spent on the Boston Royal Rooters cheering section along with its leaders Mike &quot;Nuf Sed&quot; McGreevey and John &quot;Honey Fitz&quot; Fitzgerald.  This was appropriate, but I found too much of the book to be a description of the ethnic groups that made up the city of Boston at the turn of the century.  I suppose the author felt that had to be done to increase the size of the book.  The author, Roger Abrams, is a Professor of Law at Northeastern University which sits on the site of the old Huntington Avenue Grounds where the first World Series games were played in Boston.  For additional information on the first World Series you may want to read Autumn Glory by Louis Masur.	2004-01-04
US	51749393	R3KZHMNWQ0RYP5	1400061172	415078222	Death of Innocence: The Story of the Hate Crime That Changed America	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	A Riveting Story Told By A Fascinating Woman	Mamie Till Mobley lost her only son, 14 year-old Emmett Till, to a hate crime in Money, Mississippi, on August 28, 1955.  She was denied justice in a farcical trial in which the boy's murderers were set free.  As much as it is the story of Emmett Till, it is also the story of a determined mother to dedicate the remainder of her life in supporting the civil rights movement, and as a teacher in the Chicago Public Schools.  She is a shining example of what we all should be, a positive influence on those we come into contact.  She didn't spend her life in bitterness at her son's killers.  She only hoped they would repent of their crime (they didn't), because their final Judge would not be a jury from the state of Mississippi.  The killers found their so-called supporters had drifted away from them, because of the negative attention this crime brought to the area.  Their business was boycotted by blacks, and their wives left them.  Emmett Till was a sacrificial lamb that started the Civil Rights Movement in the United States, and the subsequent contributions of his mother in touching the lives of those she came in contact with is something  that can't be measured.  The winners in this story are a mother, a child, and the country's awareness of the need for civil rights for all citizens, while the losers are the boy's killers.  There is much to learn in this book, and Mamie Till Mobley continues to teach others through this book even though she passed from this world on January 6, 2003.  I did find a date mistake listed twice.  On page 121 the initial incident at the grocery store in Money, Mississippi, is listed as Wednesday, August 20th.  It has to be August 24th, because Emmett Till left Chicago for Mississippi on Saturday, August 20th.  This mistake is repeated in the pictures.  The date is later corrected to Wednesday, August 24th, on pages 185 and 261.  Although it is difficult to wonder how these mistakes slipped through a proofreader, in no way does it detract from the book.m the book.	2004-01-03
US	51749393	R1ERL60K7WXCK4	0684852950	496909155	New World Coming : The 1920s and the Making of Modern America	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	A Book Packed With Information	The people we associate with the decade of the 1920's are all here along with anecdotes about all of them.  I am not much of a fan of political history, and this book has its share of stories involving Woodrow Wilson, Warren G. Harding, Calvin Coolidge, Herbert Hoover, and F.D.R.  However, author Nathan Miller provides us with human interest stories of each of these presidents in addition to individuals from the world of entertainment, sports, industry, and gangsterdom.  The decade of prohibition from use of alcohol and the consequences from passage of the 18th Amendment is dealt with in detail.  Great social changes were sweeping the nation with the coming of radio, the automobile, and motion pictures to name a few.  The 20's brought us radio, the 50's brought television, and the 90's brought us the internet.  I found the book to be very informative, and even though the book is nearly 400 pages long, it was a very interesting read with a colorful cast of characters that the 1920's brought us.  Whether  you like political or social history you will enjoy both in this book.	2003-12-31
US	51749393	R26KQNQNZC9E5D	0826211399	484169591	The Trial of the Germans: An Account of the Twenty-two Defendants before the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Detailed Account of the 22 Nuremberg Defendants	Author Eugene Davidson has provided the reader with a 600 page account detailing the responsibilities of the 22 defendants who were tried in Nuremberg, Germany, for war crimes in World War II.  The book is not a question and answer session of each one.  Rather, it provides us with an account of what each man was responsible for in regard to Adolf Hitler's Third Reich.  Most of the defendants were merely anti-semetic flunkies who parroted the beliefs of Hitler.  Hjalmar Schacht had the highest I.Q. with 141 and Herman Goering was second with 139.  I found the defendants to be a curious lot with each one openly disliking, jealous of, or not trusting the other.  Had they pursued other endeavors rather than follow Hitler, some of them may very well have gone on to successful careers.  These once powerful men appear to be a rather grandfatherly collection while sitting in the courtroom at Nuremberg.  I did find the book to be kind of long, but if you are interested in learning about this cast of characters this would be a good book for you to read.	2003-12-25
US	51749393	R5K0A5JRVPJ45	1401300723	135814971	Reporting America at War: An Oral History	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Journalistic Giants Speak Their Mind	Reporters who have covered wars from World War II up to the present war with Iraq and everything in between provide us with their views of the freedom or lack of same they have had in carrying out their journalistic duties.  Walter Cronkite, Andy Rooney, David Halberstam, Morley Safer, Peter Arnett, Christiane Amanpour, among others give us their insight into the freedom or lack of freedom they have had in seeing to it the public's freedom to know what is taking place in the war zone.  The bottom line regarding the book is &quot;the First Amendment was written to protect the press not for its own good, but for the good of the public,&quot;...and &quot;if we choose not to care about the world until the world comes crashing through our door, then we will not get it.  Not at all, or only when it's too late.&quot;  The attacks on 9-11 should emphasize to Americans the importance of knowing what is going on beyond the shores of the United States.  Since Vietnam Americans have distrusted the government's view of how wars are progressing, and should insist that reporters have access to provide them with information to keep them informed.  The individuals in the book are giants in their trade, and their opinions are as relevent today as they always have been.	2003-12-09
US	51749393	R3IULM4VO4U157	0743217802	276350978	They Marched Into Sunlight: War and Peace Vietnam and America October 1967	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	Another Scholary Effort from Author Maraniss	Author David Maraniss has matched his earlier book on Vince Lombardi with a well-researched effort on a turbulent period in America's history as he focuses on a few days in October of 1967.  The book's focus is what is going on in Washington, Vietnam, and the college campus on the University of Wisconsin in Madison, Wisconsin.  The book has a cast of numerous characters, and the author alphabetizes the names of each according to those in Vietnam, Washington, and Madison for reference along with a short description of each person.  Maraniss provides us with a description of the personality of each character as their role develops throughout the book.  What the soldiers in Vietnam saw as an ambush they walked into was not perceived as such by the nabobs in Washington as Washington made it out to be a victory against the Viet Cong.  General Hay being awarded a Silver Star for a battle he wasn't even a part of while denying a medal to someone who was makes him an embarrassment.  A good portion of the book focuses on the campus at Madison as students protested the Dow Chemical Company conducting interviews on the campus since it was Dow that produced napalm and Agent Orange.  The epilogue having Delta commander Clark Welsh, a daughter of commander Terry Allen who was killed in the ambush, author Maraniss, and Von Minh Triet of the Viet Cong, along with a few others making a pilgrimage to the site of the battlefield over thirty years later is an appropriate ending to the book.  The book is over 500 pages, but it is certainly worth your time.	2003-11-30
US	51749393	RSP3NEO9LMXDK	0312308671	622937689	Monster of the Midway: Bronko Nagurski, the 1943 Chicago Bears, and the Greatest Comeback Ever	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Pro Football During the 30's and Early 40's	The name Bronko Nagurski.  You know this man was not a ballet dancer.  This is more than a book about &quot;The Nag&quot; and the Chicago Bears.  It is also a book about a number of other old football names I have heard of, but knew nothing about.  Sid Luckman, Hunk Anderson, Don Hutson, Johnny &quot;Blood&quot; McNally, Clyde &quot;Bulldog&quot; Turner, Beattie Feathers, George Preston Marshall, Curly Lambeau, Slingin' Sammy Baugh, and, of course, the Papa Bear himself, George Halas.  This was a period of players playing both on offense and defense, no hash marks, the fat ball, the quarterback being fair game until a play is blown dead by an official, and other rules that had not been placed into the game.  George Preston Marshall, owner of the then Boston Redskins who played in Fenway Park, spoke to the conservative owners about the need to change some rules to jazz up the game to make it more exciting to the public.  He was lucky to have a sympathetic listener in George Halas as support for his ideas.  The demise of the fat ball made it possible to throw more passes, and put an end to the endless amount of running plays.  One of Marshall's best ideas was to split the league into two conferences, and setting up a championship game each year.  For all his good ideas, he stated he wanted Negroes out of the game.  Black players had been part of the game since 1920, but Marshall's appeal banned black players from further play.  Bronko Nagurski played for the Bears throughout the 1937 season, and left the team over a difference of $500 that The Nag and Halas differed over.  Nagurski made money wrestling, and eventually came back to play for the Bears during the 1943 season.  What surprised me was the number of college coaches such as Amos Alonzo Stagg and Knute Rockne who discouraged college players from entering the professional ranks.  In 1990 Nagurski traveled to the Mayo Clinic to fuse bones in his ankles.  A doctor asked for an autograph for his son, and The Nag wrote, &quot;To Jeremy--Do Not Play Football.  Bronko Nagurski.&quot;  This is a book filled with colorful anecdotes, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.rote, &quot;To Jeremy--Do Not Play Football.  Bronko Nagurski.&quot;  This is a book filled with colorful anecdotes, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.	2003-11-20
US	51749393	R1SJLWXF2QDNV3	1590710142	614980818	From Love Field:  Our Final Hours with President John F. Kennedy	Books	5	38	40	N	N	Mrs. Connally Speaks Her Views	As the last surviving member of the motorcar of two couples in which President John F. Kennedy was assassinated forty years ago, the wife of former Texas Governor John Connally provides us with her experiences of that ill-fated event.  Mrs. Connally supports the belief of three shots being fired from behind.  The first hit President Kennedy in the throat, the second hitting her husband behind the right shoulder, and the third shattering the skull of President Kennedy. She states that her husband sitting in the front seat had time to move from side to side after Kennedy had been hit in the throat.  She states, &quot;Even magic bullets don't hang in the air that long.&quot;  Following this shot, Mrs. Connally states, her husband was hit behind the right shoulder, and then the President was hit in the head.  She states her husband heard the first and third shots, the second one he did not.  She has been told you do not hear a bullet that hits you, and John heard the first and third shots.  She also describes her apprehension while her husband was in the emergency room, and wondering if he was getting the proper care (he was), or was everyone attending to the stricken president.  John Connally researched every report prepared on the subject, and in 1983 he still held to the belief of Oswald's guilt stating, &quot;Nobody in America can keep a secret that big for that long.&quot;  In addition to Mrs. Connally, each of her three children provide their remembrances of this infamous day.  The book concludes with the speeches President Kennedy was to deliver at the Dallas Trade Mart at noon, and his speech in Austin that evening.  Forests have been felled with versions of this American tragedy, but it is special to hear it from one as close to the situation as she was.  Thank you, Mrs. Connally, for sharing your experiences with us.	2003-11-14
US	51749393	R1FDELWWF6V8F8	1568582684	273005353	The Player: Christy Mathewson, Baseball, and the American Century	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	I Was Plesantly Surprised	Considering the book is less than 200 pages long I wondered what this book would tell me about Christy Mathewson I haven't already read somewhere else.  Author Philip Seib emphasizes the positive role model Matty played both as a player and as a private citizen.  The author also provides us with details of former major leaguer Eddie Grant who lost his life fighting in World War I.  His monument used to appear in center field in the Polo Grounds, and I was pleased to read details I hadn't read before.  Mathewson enlisted in World War I, and came in contact with poisonous gas in a training drill in Europe shortly before The Great War ended.  He returned from Europe to help McGraw as a coach with the Giants, and once again encountered the crooked Hal Chase whom Matty had in his brief tenure as manager of the Cincinnati Reds after his (Matty's) playing days were over.  He was an observer of the 1919 World Series between the White Sox and Reds, and to his dismay, observed what he believed to be crookedness in the play of the Chicago team.  His cough persisted, and progressed to tuberculosis.  Matty spent time at Saranac Lake in upstate New York where the dry air was thought to be helpful to patients.  He felt well enough to join the Boston Braves in the front office, but had to return to Saranac Lake where he died during the 1925 World Series.  This would be an excellent book for both beginning readers of Christy Mathewson, or those who have a more extensive knowledge of one of the first five members elected to Baseball's Hall of Fame.	2003-11-13
US	51749393	R2EBZN36M75IH3	1402201583	425493621	President Kennedy Has Been Shot	Books	5	19	19	N	N	I Felt Like I Was Living Through This Again	Both newspaper reporters and television newscasters provide the reader with a review of the unforgettable four days in 1963 that jolted America.  The book provides a nice mixture of photographs that are embedded into the consciousness of those who lived through this tragedy in addition to a text of newspaper and television reporters who were directly involved in informing the public.  I, like other readers, found the book hard to put down, and went through the book in two sessions.  Throughout the book it is mentioned how easy it was for reporters to gain access to places in 1963 that increased security would deny them nowadays.  Memories will come flooding back to you if you lived through this  period of American history.  If you were too young to remember, or if you weren't alive at the time, this book, through text of those who reported the event, and the photographs will bring you back to the way it was.  A CD accompanies the book narrated by Dan Rather to add to its reality.  I would highly recommend this book to you.	2003-11-04
US	51749393	RVZMCGJCX6COD	1574887912	370090504	Getting in the Game: Inside Baseball's Winter Meetings	Books	2	4	8	N	N	The Book Is Not What I Thought It Was	I feel guilty giving Josh Lewin's book a rating of only two stars, but I should have looked more carefully before I bought the book.  I am a big Josh Lewin fan, and was disappointed when he left telecasting the Tigers with Kirk Gibson to join the Texas Rangers.  I grabbed the book as soon as I saw his name as the author, and I thought I was going to read about Josh's baseball experiences and the making of trades during baseball's winter meetings.  Instead, the book is about minor league teams auditioning audio tapes of prospective announcers looking for a minor league job at baseball's winter meetings in Nashville.  Some information is also provided regarding team mascots.  Had I looked at the book's contents before I bought it, I would have put it back on the shelf.  My rating of two stars is based on my interest level, not on the book's quality.  If you write another one on your baseball experiences, Josh, I will be sure to buy it, because I enjoy your work.	2003-11-02
US	51749393	R2EGAJSSLFL1BW	1572435038	415833352	My Life in Baseball	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	A Player Who Appreciates His Place in the Game	I enjoy reading about baseball players from the 1950's since that was when I was introduced to the game.  This is a straightforward account of Robin Roberts's career in baseball spent primarily with the Philadelphia Phillies in addition to cups of coffee with the Yankees in spring training of 1962, the Orioles, Astros, and Cubs.  Profiles are also given to treasured teammates such as Curt Simmons, Richie Ashburn, Granny Hamner, and others.  I find it interesting to read about what these players I used to collect as baseball cards are like as people.  It is also refreshing to read a story of this kind without being bombarded with profanities so often found in books.  Robin Roberts has a profound respect for the game that has been such a great part of his life.  Roberts, like so many other players from this period, found it to be a shock when his playing days were over.  He worked for an investment company, but found more happiness while coaching college baseball at South Florida.  He also expresses appreciation for being blessed with a supportive wife who encouraged him while he chased his dream of a baseball career.  I'm a fan of the Detroit Tigers, but Robin Roberts and his Phillies' teammates were known to me through baseball cards, and I appreciate having this book to familiarize myself with Roberts and his teammates.	2003-10-09
US	51749393	R31N3VJIMLTN8Y	0826213367	555458433	Musial: From Stash to Stan the Man (MISSOURI BIOGRAPHY SERIES)	Books	4	9	12	N	Y	An Objective Look At Stan The Man	Author James Giglio did not receive the blessings from Stan Musial to write this book, and Stan apparently discouraged others, at least according to the author, from aiding in this book as well.  I found the book to be enjoyable and portrays Stan as both the baseball icon he so deservedly is along with frailities that make him human like the rest of us.  I found it to be disappointing that he and Joe Garagiola, who are godfathers to each other's children, had a falling out that has apparently ended their friendship over problems involving their Redbird Lanes bowling alley partnership.  According to Gigllio, Garagiola has tried to mend the friendship, but Stan wanted no part of it.  Stan is not one to get involved in controversial matters such as race relations and the reserve clause which bound players to one team.  Musial, while not against integration, did not use his superstar status to speak in support of it.  In like manner when Bob Feller wanted him to support revisions to the reserve clause, Musial backpeddled when he (Musial) had suggested free agency after ten years of service and then stated he was satisfied with the status quo.  He was in his element when he was in a relaxed atmosphere among people, but controversy made him back off.  I did find a  few errors in the book, primarily with first names of former players.  Hall of Fame Cincinnati manager Bill McKechnie is referred to as &quot;Joe&quot;.  Former Chicago Cubs catcher Elvin Tappe is referred to as &quot;Ted&quot;.  Former Brooklyn Dodgers pitchers Chris Van Cuyk and Ben Wade are referred to as &quot;Johnny&quot; and &quot;Jake&quot; respectively.  One additional error I found takes place during Stan's retirement party sponsored by the St. Louis chapter of the Baseball Writers Association of America.  Ernie Banks spoke and pretended to read a telegram from the NAACP which he said stood for &quot;the National Association for Advancement of Colored Pitchers.&quot;  Banks actually said, the &quot;National Association for the Advancement of Cubs' Pitching.&quot;  I have a copy of the highlights of the St. Louis BBWAA on a phonograph record and this portion of the speech is on it.  These are errors I caught in the book that I felt should not be there.  Four well known players of the time period should have their first names listed correctly, in addition to the error in the speech by Banks.  There are probably others, but these are the ones I found.  In any case I enjoyed the book, and it was worth my time.ional Association for the Advancement of Cubs' Pitching.&quot;  I have a copy of the highlights of the St. Louis BBWAA on a phonograph record and this portion of the speech is on it.  These are errors I caught in the book that I felt should not be there.  Four well known players of the time period should have their first names listed correctly, in addition to the error in the speech by Banks.  There are probably others, but these are the ones I found.  In any case I enjoyed the book, and it was worth my time.	2003-09-24
US	51749393	R3VFD9UAAGG42H	1570281971	739055231	Sports on New York Radio	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A Thorough History on A Fascinating Subject	If ever one of my book reviews deserved five stars this is it in spades.  David Halberstam, a great author on numerous subjects, has provided us with a comprehensive history of the great names that have graced the radio sports scene in New York.  The book is filled with anecdotes that reveal the personalities of such greats as Graham McNamee, Ted Husing, Red Barber, Mel Allen, Don Dunphy, Phil Rizzuto, Marv Albert, Marty Glickman, Clem McCarthy, Russ Hodges, Jim Woods, Lindsey Nelson, Bob Murphy, and numerous others.  Anyone who ever reported sports on radio in New York is in here.  Separate chapters are devoted to boxing, hockey, college and pro football, basketball, the Brooklyn Dodgers, the New York Giants, the New York Yankees, the New York Mets, talk radio, and his personal experience of a mistake he, himself, made while doing a game for the Miami Heat basketball team.  The book concludes with a final section on references that cover most anything you may want to know on this subject.  Halberstan says that  baseball voices are not paid for how they describe a play, but how they handle airtime between plays.  We are treated to a number of Vin Scully phrases such as when the Brewers and Cardinals, both sponsored by beer companies, played in the 1982 World Series.  Scully said, &quot;There will be no bad hops in this Series.&quot;  An interesting tidbit is that Connie Desmond and Al Helfer are the only individuals that have covered the Yankees, Dodgers, and Giants.  An interesting, but puzzling, story is told when Halberstam asked the general manager of a radio station in Talahassee, Florida, to arrange for him to spend a half hour with Red Barber.  Barber was cordial, but could be cold with visitors.  The author said he had so much to ask him.  Just as he was warming up, Barber politely got up off his chair, shook the author's hand, and thanked him for coming.  Thirty minutes were up, and it was time to go.  If you enjoy the giants of the sports airwaves this book is a must for your reading, and deserves a prominent place in anyone's sports library.k is a must for your reading, and deserves a prominent place in anyone's sports library.	2003-09-18
US	51749393	R1HP29Y9CH41CQ	0809324504	167652409	Baseball's Natural: The Story of Eddie Waitkus (Writing Baseball)	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	A Good Man Who Had A Hard Life	Author John Theodore has provided the reader with the most detailed account of the 1949 shooting of former Philadelphia Phillies' baseball star Eddie Waitkus by an obsessed 19 year-old female fan in a Chicago hotel.  At the time of the shooting Waitkus was the leading vote getter among first basemen for the upcoming All-Star game to be played in Brooklyn, New York.  Waitkus managed to overcome the attempt on his life and became an integral member of the 1950 Philadelphia Phillies Whiz Kids team that went on to win the National League pennant only to lose the World Series to the New York Yankees in four straight, but hard fought, close games.  Waitkus's career began to wind down a couple of years later as he was waived out of the National League, and became a member of the 1954 Baltimore Orioles who were playing their first year in Crabtown after moving from St. Louis.  His playing time was very limited and in 1955 the Orioles cut him loose, and he once again returned for a brief period of time with the Phillies.  The post baseball years were not kind to Waitkus who, like so many other players during this time, had no training beyond baseball.  He tried a job in sales, but hated it.  He fought the demons of alcohol, and the memories he had of World War II when he fought in the Pacific in addition to the memory of the evening in 1949 when he nearly lost his life in the Chicago hotel room.  He did find happiness as a batting instructor in a Ted Williams baseball camp for young boys.  Here he was doing something he loved among kids who shared his devotion to the game.  Eddie Waitkus died in 1973 at the age of 53 from esophageal and lung cancer which was most likely brought on by his many years of heavy smoking.  I did find a few spelling errors in the book along with the fact that the song Take Me Out to the Ball Game was written in 1908, not 1909, as the book mentions.  If you associate the name of Eddie Waitkus only with the unfortunate shooting incident, this book will provide you with additional information about the man's career in addition to details regarding that unfortunate evening in 1949.ll provide you with additional information about the man's career in addition to details regarding that unfortunate evening in 1949.	2003-09-07
US	51749393	R10FR0B73FC4KB	0700612475	154021978	Machine Gun Kelly's Last Stand	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	This Book Separates Fact From Fiction	Author Stanley Hamilton provides the reader with a gripping account of the infamous kidnapping of Oklahoma City businessman Charles Urschel by George &quot;Machine Gun&quot; Kelly and his cohorts.  Urschel turned out to be the wrong choice for a victim since he was able to maintain a composed posture and one whose memory for detail enabled the authorities to locate the place he was held in Paradise, Texas.  Kelly's wife wanted to have Urschel killed after the ransom was paid, but was overruled by her husband since it was a sure ticket to the electric chair should they be caught.<br />John Edgar Hoover of the F.B.I. embellished the reputations of depression-era gangsters such as Kelly with descriptive adjectives that didn't necessarily apply to someone such as Kelly in an effort at self- promotion and for the reputation of the organization.  The story of Kelly supposedly saying, &quot;Don't shoot G-Men,&quot; when he was captured by F.B.I. agents was an embellished story that Hoover enjoyed retelling.  The last part of the book is mostly devoted to letters that were sent by Kelly from Alcatraz Prison to Urschel or from others involved in the abduction.  Some of the letters were repetitive.  Finally, what happened to the principals in the story is provided to close the book.  From the beginning of the book through the trials (141 pages) makes this a book that is hard to put down.	2003-09-03
US	51749393	R1MMA5NHEUVCWE	1579545874	204500630	Indian Summer: The Tragic Story of Louis Francis Sockalexis, the First Native American in Major League Baseball	Books	4	8	8	N	N	An All Too Familiar Story	I had heard of Louis Sockalexis and knew he was from Old Town, Maine, but that was all.  Author Brian McDonald has researched the baseball life of this Penobscot Indian, and provided us with a neglected subject in baseball's history.  Sockalexis was on his way to having a superior season with the Cleveland National League team in 1897 while enduring the derisive taunts from fans throughout the league because he was an Indian.  Sockalexis turned those taunts to cheers with his batting and fielding skills, while others attended games just to see this much heralded Indian play ball.  It certainly wasn't known at the time, but the apex of Sockalexis's career was on the team's first visit to New York's Polo Grounds when he hit a home run onto 8th Avenue off the \\"Hoosier Thunderbolt\\" Amos Rusie.<br />  As has been the case with numerous athletes throughout history, the love of alcohol and the night life brought this budding star's career to an abrupt end.  While jumping out of a second story brothel window Louis suffered a broken ankle and his running ability was never the same.  He managed to hang on through the seasons of 1898-1899, but was only a shadow of his former self.  He had vowed to give up his drinking and take his baseball seriously, but it was not to be.  The Cleveland team was known as the Spiders, and was changed during this time to Indians.  Whether it was because Sockalexis was on the team in open to conjecture.  In 1900 the National League dropped its four weakest franchises, Cleveland among them, which finished the 1899 season with the worst record of any team in baseball history, 20 wins and 134 losses.  Sockalexis died from heart failure on Christmas Eve of 1913.  We are also introduced to Indians' owner Frank Robison  and manager Patsy Tebeau who endured the tribulations of managing his alcoholic star.<br /> Interesting stories are also told of the St. Louis Browns' colorful owner Chris Von der Ahe who ended up selling his team to Cleveland owner Frank Robison at a sheriff's auction.  Owning two teams was known as \\"syndicate baseball.\\"<br />  The author begins each chapter with interesting tidbits that were taking place in America during the years of 1897-1899.  One was the two day postponement of the execution of a Choctaw Indian who was to be shot by firing squad so he could be in the lineup of the governor's favorite team.<br />  The book is a worthy addition to a baseball library.  His story, however, is an all too familiar one of wasted talent.nk Robison at a sheriff's auction.  Owning two teams was known as \\"syndicate baseball.\\"<BR>     The author begins each chapter with interesting tidbits that were taking place in America during the years of 1897-1899.  One was the two day postponement of the execution of a Choctaw Indian who was to be shot by firing squad so he could be in the lineup of the governor's favorite team.<BR>     The book is a worthy addition to a baseball library.  His story, however, is an all too familiar one of wasted talent.	2003-09-02
US	51749393	R3R4GZT1TVVSDM	0809027631	306450927	Autumn Glory: Baseball's First World Series	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Baseball in America 100 Years Ago	The title of the book suggests a complete book on the 1903 World Series.  Author Louis Masur does an admirable job of bringing the reader back in time to the way it was 100 years ago.  The book is 236 pages long, and I initially wondered how he was going to elaborate on an eight game Series over that many pages.  What the author did was alternate a chapter on each of the eight games in this best five out of nine games with goings on in the baseball world during the year of 1903.  I especially enjoyed the chapters on the games itself as the author does a great job of telling us what baseball and its fans in America were like 100 years ago.  The author refers to the Boston American League team as the &quot;Americans&quot; while I have always heard them referred to as the &quot;Pilgrims.&quot;  This was the Series in which Boston's Royal Rooters became famous for their fan support with their band and singing of various songs including the popular song &quot;Tessie&quot; in which they adapted words to apply to Pirates' shortstop Honus Wagner.  It is not mentioned in the book, but JFK's grandfather was a member of the Royal Rooters.  The book is an easy read and one that tells us what it was like to be a ballplayer and fan 100 years ago.  You will also see that baseball's present day problems are not anything new.	2003-08-28
US	51749393	R1A5SK2YKUMIF5	0393050297	652993826	The Stranger Beside Me: The Twentieth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	I Rate This Book Five Depressing Stars	I am not going to attempt to summarize this book when so many others have reviewed it before me.  However, Ann Rule has done an exceptional job of covering her experiences with Ted Bundy as a co-worker and as one who corresponded with Mr. Bundy through numerous letters after he left the state of Washington.  Sadly, Mr. Bundy often appealed to the goodness in others in getting them to help him when he appeared handicapped with a cast on an arm or a leg  prior to killing them.  Ted Bundy is the classic example of how it has become impossible to trust even the most sincere person who has a desire to help another individual.  Ted Bundy has shown there is no stereotypical individual as to what a serial killer should look like.  The book is 456 pages long, but it certainly makes for gripping reading.  I would not, however, want to read another book on Ted Bundy.  This one was enough.	2003-08-26
US	51749393	R3RY8GBVKBK6TF	0802714056	111515923	The Secret Voyage of Sir Francis Drake: 1577-1580	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A Very Detailed Account of Drake's 1577-1580 Trip	Author Samuel Bawlf has provided us with a very scholary account of Sir Francis Drake's trip around the world with an emphasis on  his April to September 1579 trip to latitude 57 degrees in southern Alaska.  Harvard historian Samuel Eliot Morison, as have numerous other historians, labeled Drake's Bay and Nova Albion off the coast of California north of San Francisco whereas author Bawlf has Nova Albion located on Vancouver Island.  Albion, by the way, is the Greek word for England, so Nova Albion would translate to New England.  I am not to argue one way or another regarding how far north Drake traveled up the North American west coast, but the author provides a good case for Drake traveling north to latitude 57 degrees.  Drake's trip was to be one of exploration, but Elizabeth made it clear to him that if he conducted raids on Spanish settlements along the way, she would not object.  A good account is provided regarding the execution of Thomas Doughty for stirring up discontent among the crew against Drake near the same location where Ferdinand Magellan staged an execution of his own near Port St. Julian in what is now southern Argentina.  I knew Drake died at sea in the Caribbean, but did not know he had suffered and died from dysentery and his body was then lowered into the sea.  Drake wasn't sure how Queen Elizabeth would react to the death of Thomas Doughty, and I found it interesting that when Drake kneeled before the queen to be knighted on the Golden Hind that she mentioned that maybe she should remove his head instead.  Near the end, I felt the book told me more than I cared to know about the islands north of Vancouver Island.  However, if you are interested in books on exploration, you should enjoy this book.	2003-08-18
US	51749393	R1PPPT99B9P77W	044652932X	235340655	Pride of October: What It Was to Be Young and a Yankee	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	A Yankees' Version of &quot;The Boys of Summer&quot;	Author Bill Madden has come up with a first rate book on significant Yankee players who have had distinguished careers with the team over the past several decades.  The book reminds me of Roger Kahn's effort on the Brooklyn Dodgers of the early 1950's in which he traveled across the country to visit surviving members of that team.  Madden has come up with a similar book on the Yankees with the only difference being the players that were interviewed didn't necessarily play on the same team.  The oldest player interviewed by Madden was pitcher Marius Russo who concluded his career in 1946 with Paul O'Neill being the most recent Yankee included in the book.  Madden interviewed the late Elston Howard's wife Arlene.  Otherwise the book includes interviews only with still-living Yankee greats.  The only disappointing omission from the book is Ron Guidry who certainly should have been included.  However, Yankee fan or not, this is a first rate book for anyone who considers themself a baseball fan.	2003-08-13
US	51749393	R1LJDSSGOTIERI	0871138425	77869369	A Storm in Flanders: The Ypres Salient, 1914-1918: Tragedy and Triumph on the Western Front	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Book on World War I For Everyone	My background regarding World War I is minimal, and I wanted to gain some basic information regarding The Great War.  I took a chance on A Storm in Flanders since it seemed to be of modest length (262 pages), and was pleasantly surprised.  World War I was expected to be a relatively quick war, certainly not into a period of a year or more as happened, but author Winston Groom provides the reader with a horrific description of how horrible war can be.  The focus of this book is the area of Flanders in the country of Belgium where the earth was literally fertilized with the bodies of dead soldiers.  The history of the poem &quot;In Flanders Field&quot; is here in addition to the British poet Siegfried Sassoon who tossed his Military Cross into the Mersey River and uttered some unpatriotic remarks that could have gotten him court martialed had he not been popular in England and a friend of Winston Churchill.  Instead, he was placed into a sanitarium.  Throughout the book my thoughts were of what a waste of life on both sides this was, and the thoughts of the soldiers on the futility of war.  This is a book that is of interest to World War I historians in addition to those whose knowledge of the Great War is limited.  I fit into the latter category, and if you do, also, this is a book that can &quot;fill in the gaps&quot; of your knowledge of World War I.	2003-07-25
US	51749393	R2QI47ICEAV2CX	041592779X	54331920	Shut Out: A Story of Race and Baseball in Boston	Books	4	10	11	N	N	The Curse of Yawkey and His Cronies	My rating of four stars is based on my interest level while author Howard Bryant deserves five stars for his in-depth effort on the subject of the Boston Red Sox and the racial problems that have cast a cloud over the storied franchise.  The author relates the story of the farcical tryout of Jackie Robinson at Fenway Park along with two other blacks in 1945 with the Red Sox using the excuse they couldn't sign Robinson since he would have had to report to a minor league team of theirs located in the south where he would have had to deal with a segregated society.  The same held true for Willie Mays who could have been patrolling center field for the Sox.  Red Sox owner Tom Yawkey purchased the team in 1933 and surrounded himself with a trio of cronies and drinking buddies named Eddie Collins, Joe Cronin, and buffoon racist Mike \\"Pinky\\" Higgins.  It is certainly true that racism was not limited to the Red Sox during the 1950's, but they were last in integrating their team with the signing of Elijah \\"Pumpsie\\" Green in 1959, and as long as the specter of Collins, Cronin, and Higgins were involved nothing was going to change.  Yawkey, as owner was certainly no leader, as he entrusted his franchise to these three men and passively accepted their beliefs.  Author Bryant also goes into detail on the experiences of Reggie Smith, Jim Rice, Ellis Burks, Dennis \\"Oil Can\\" Boyd, Luis Tiant, and Mo Vaughn during their stays in Boston.  Some of the book covers non-baseball racially related incidents over the years, and how the team has suffered in trying to get free agents to sign with the Red Sox.  When Pumpsie Green joined the club in '59 Ted Williams sent a strong message to teammates and other bigots by  warming up with Green prior to the games.  Seemingly little things like this can loom large when someone is trying to gain acceptance.  Green, himself, summed things up quite well in the year 2000 by saying, \\"Sometimes when I think of the things people like me had to go through, it just sounds so unnecessary.  When you think about it, it is almost silly, how much time and energy was wasted hating.\\"  This is not simply another baseball book, but one that provides a look into the Boston Red Sox' role in race relations involving their storied ball club.  You need not be a fan of the Bosox, I'm not, to enjoy the book., it just sounds so unnecessary.  When you think about it, it is almost silly, how much time and energy was wasted hating.\\"  This is not simply another baseball book, but one that provides a look into the Boston Red Sox' role in race relations involving their storied ball club.  You need not be a fan of the Bosox, I'm not, to enjoy the book.	2003-07-20
US	51749393	R1PQJYSTNCF84N	1572435321	279364768	A Funny Thing Happened On the Way to Cooperstown	Books	3	5	11	N	N	Certainly Not the Type of Life for Everyone	Mickey McDermott is a name I remember from collecting baseball cards during the 1950's, and I wanted to read about players who were a part of that era in baseball.  I found the book to be okay, but it became tiring reading about his alcoholic episodes with teammates and others during his life.  Call me square, but I see little humor in anecdotes involving drinking.  McDermott, himself, realized he had to get help and has now been sober for a number of years.  I knew that Bob Nieman hit home runs in his first two at bats in the major leagues, but I didn't realize that both were hit off of Mickey McDermott.  I did find two mistakes in the book.  He mentions on page 17 that Walt Dropo's record for twelve consecutive hits over a three game period may never be broken.  Mike &quot;Pinky&quot; Higgins shares this record with Dropo.  Maybe Higgins did it over more than three games.  Also, on page 103 he twice refers to his old catching teammate on the Washington Senators as &quot;Cliff&quot; Courtney.  Old Scrapiron, as we all know, was Clint Courtney.  I'm sure this may have been an oversight, but to mention it two times made me wonder.  As I said, the book was okay, but I certainly didn't find it to be &quot;uproariously funny&quot; as it states on the cover.	2003-07-12
US	51749393	R1J6JDXE18CZ3A	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A  Lot of Information on a Subject Unfamiliar to Me	Back in the 1950's I remember my grandfather talking about visiting the Chicago World's Fair and seeing Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show, but never remembered any of the details.  Author Erik Larson has filled in a lot of information on the 1893 Chicago World's Fair that I never knew about beginning with the city's attempt to lure the fair to Chicago and to outdo the Paris, France, fair in which the Eiffel Tower was built.  After being granted the fair the author provides details in which American talents were rounded up with ideas of where in Chicago to locate the fair and how to outdo the Paris, France, fair.  Struggles in getting the work started and the race to finish on time are also dealt with.  The book alternates chapters between the fair and the matter of a serial murderer named H. H. Holmes, an apparent kindly man who gassed young women to death in his Chicago suburb \\"hotel\\" that he had built.  The book is filled with interesting people from this time period such as George Ferris who built the first ferris wheel on the Jackson Park location of the fair.  Buffalo Bill, Frederick Law Olmstead who also designed Central Park in New York, and Daniel Burnham, the main architect, who also designed the Flatiron Building in New York are some of the individuals the author provides interesting details.  Many products we use today were first put on display at the fair such as the zipper and Shredded Wheat cereal.  Every midway at a fair now has a ferris wheel, the first one being at the 1893 Chicago fair.  To me, the story of the mass murderer, H. H. Holmes is an interesting sidelight in this book.  The story of the World's Columbian Exposition of 1893 is the main story, and one in which I knew nothing about other than my grandfather telling me he saw Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show at the fair.  The details of making the fair a reality and the people who flocked to the fair despite the difficult economic conditions at the time make this book truly interesting reading.	2003-06-24
US	51749393	R1NGZ0KPBNTWZH	0151006288	250407107	October Men: Reggie Jackson, George Steinbrenner, Billy Martin, and the Yankees' Miraculous Finish in 1978	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	What More Can Be Said on Steinbrenner's Yankees	Forests have been leveled to accommodate the number of books that have been written about the New York Yankees especially during the Steinbrenner years, and you have to wonder what can be said that hasn't been written about numerous times before.  However, if I were to have only one book on this subject (I have several) this latest offering by Roger Kahn is the one I would choose.  I admit to being partial to Kahn's writing in regard to baseball, but he delves into the personalities of George Steinbrenner, Billy Martin, Al Rosen, Reggie Jackson, Thurman Munson, Sparky Lyle, Gabe Paul, Dick Young, Larry MacPhail, and others with anecdotes and humor you probably haven't heard before.  This book is littered with stress and alcohol as conflicting personalities clash their way through the 1978 season.  Yes, part of the book provides a little history in regard to the Red Sox and Yankees in regard to their previous ownership, but even in this, the author tells these stories with quotes I haven't read in previous books.  If you have enjoyed reading other books on this subject, and especially if you enjoy Roger Kahn's writing, this book will not disappoint you.	2003-06-14
US	51749393	R15ZCN8G6EYXA1	0316068993	445593525	The Long Ball: The Summer of '75 - Spaceman, Catfish, Charlie Hustle, and the Greatest World Series Ever Played	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An Enjoyable Read on the 1975 Season	It has become popular during the last several years to have books published which are devoted to certain years during a baseball season.  Some of them have been good while others have been found wanting.  The Long Ball by Tom Adelman fits into the former category especially if you are old enough to remember the memorable 1975 season.  There is a heavy emphasis on that year's World Series as it should, but it also includes a number of incidents and individuals that made headlines during that year such as the advent of free agency looming ominously on the horizon, and  anecdotes on Casey Stengel, Billy Martin, Reggie Jackson, Bill Lee, Catfish Hunter, and Carl Yastrzemski, and many others.  Half of the book is devoted to the post season playoffs and World Series.  I like the author's use of humor in telling stories such as Bill Lee describing Bernie Carbo as &quot;pure oxygen looking for a flame.&quot;  The relationship between Sparky Anderson and Bernie Carbo is built up prior to that fantastic 6th game of the Series, and I thought Anderson's reaction to the ending of that game was precious as he felt betrayed by Carbo's 8th inning three run homer.  I notice that this book has received mixed reviews, but I found the book to be enjoyable and it was fun to relive the '75 season through this book and be reunited with those individuals who were in the game during that time.  Whether you were old enough to be a fan during this season or not, I think you will find this to be a very enjoyable book.  It is worth the space on your bookcase.	2003-06-13
US	51749393	R36T2MHUSLFYR7	0375404619	570205192	Sons of Mississippi: A Story of Race and Its Legacy	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	The Past and the Present in One Book	Author Paul Hendrickson has written a very well researched book on racism in Mississippi while concentrating on seven Mississippi sheriffs photographed on the campus of the University of Mississippi during the fall of 1962 when James Meredith was to be enrolled at the University.  The author spends Part One of the book painting very unflattering portraits of the bigoted men in the picture.  Part Two emphasizes the past and present life of James Meredith who appears to be somewhat difficult to understand.  As one of Meredith's sons says in Part Three, &quot;My father has an overwhelming need to be famous and so will do whatever he thinks will provide that and get him attention--Jesse Helms, David Duke, you name it, even if it's only for a day...I'll call it his eccentric philosophy.  This is my theory.  He does these things--almost as a kind of offensive strike to throw you off...For instance, supporting David Duke.  Why in hell would you even support a racist like David Duke if you're James Meredith?  Well, maybe he knows he's going to get all these articles and letters about that, condemning him.  And that somehow gives him the energy to do what he wants to do next.&quot;<br />  In addition to speaking to Meredith's children in Part Three, the author also visits two of the sheriffs in the picture that were alive at the time (one died shortly after) in addition to some of their children and grandchildren.  A number of these offspring are working in law enforcement or in other jobs in which they must relate with fellow workers who are African Americans.<br />  The book is slightly more than 300 pages long.  Part Three may have told me a little more than I cared to know about the lives of the descendants of the bigoted sheriffs pictured on the cover of the book. I guess we can say these men were a product of their time, and their descendants have become more enlightened through the passage of time.  Bigotry is a learned behavior and through the passage of the generations progress can continue to be made.assage of the generations progress can continue to be made.	2003-05-31
US	51749393	R1J7VXQ7IDGJZG	140130057X	764274447	The Teammates: A Portrait of a Friendship	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A Great Story From A Treasured Past	Based on past efforts from David Halberstam regarding baseball books (Summer of '49 and October '64) I knew I was in for a treat with his latest effort regarding the lives of past Hub Hose Heroes Doerr, DiMaggio, Pesky, and Williams.  Halberstam provides the reader with both the past and present lives of this foursome and shows us that the years haven't been entirely kind to these teammates and baseball icons.  I found the author's explanation regarding Enos Slaughter's so-called &quot;mad dash&quot; to home in the 1946 World Series to be especially interesting.  DiMaggio had to leave the game due to a leg injury and was replaced by Leon Culberson.  From the dugout DiMaggio had signaled Culberson to move towards left center prior to the pitch, as Culberson took a few grudging steps towards left center.  With Slaughter on first and Harry Walker batting, Slaughter took off with the pitch as Harry &quot;The Hat&quot; lined the ball to left center.  Due to the terrible field conditions Culberson played the ball tentatively and then gave a lob throw towards  shortstop John Pesky as Slaughter continued his epic flight around the bases.  Pesky has often been blamed for holding the ball as Slaughter rounded third, but DiMaggio disputed this.  Slaughter, himself, said he never would have tried to score if DiMaggio was in center field.  Pesky never tried to point any fingers at any other teammates upon the advice he received from veteran pitcher Bill Posedel in his minor league years.<br />The author does a wonderful job in bringing out the various personalities of the four men through anecdotes from their past and present lives.  If you are of this era yourself you will find this book a must to own whether you're a Red Sox fan or not.  I don't remember Dominic DiMaggio and Bobby Doerr from their playing days, although I certainly am aware of them.  My memories of John Pesky are as a Tiger and Williams, of course, continued playing through 1960.  If you are interested in baseball history this book will be a most enjoyable read for you.ll history this book will be a most enjoyable read for you.	2003-05-24
US	51749393	R17KML7ZCJNIWU	0151005567	629061995	Speer: The Final Verdict	Books	4	8	11	N	N	How Much Did He Really Know?	Author Joachim Fest tells us that Albert Speer became fascinated with Adolf Hitler and was flattered that Hitler took a seemingly personal interest in him.  Although Speer didn't think of himself as politically involved with Hitler and his cohorts, Hitler, nevertheless, saw Speer as one to build the monuments that would symbolize the Third Reich.  While Speer accepts blame for his part in the Nazi regime he hedges in regard to his knowledge of the persecution of the Jews.  Speer tried to distance himself from the other Nazi's being tried at Nuremberg, and although Speer expected the death sentence  from the Nuremberg trials, he managed to escape with a lengthy prison sentence at Spandau prison.  The author tells us about Speer's adjustment to prison life as well as his difficulties in readjusting to civilian life following his prison sentence.  Of additional interest is the jealousies involved between the misfits that Hitler brought together in his entourage.  The book held my interest even though I don't believe this book did, indeed, provide the reader with the final verdict as the title suggests.	2003-05-07
US	51749393	RW0R9IABUFE36	0399149716	802275827	This Just In: What I Couldn't Tell You on TV	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	A Good Review of Past Decades to the Present	Newsman Bob Schieffer takes the reader for a review of his very interesting life as a journalist from the period of the Kennedy assassination through the 9-11 tragedy.  Much of the book is political history of past presidents and what took place during their administrations.  Whether you lived through this entire period of time or not I think you will find this book to be engaging reading.  Schieffer brings you behind the scenes and discusses the personality traits of various persons we have come to be familiar with over the years involving the television media.  The book is slightly over 400 pages long, but it makes for easy reading even for those who are not especially interested in American politics from the newscasters point of view.	2003-04-27
US	51749393	R1GCP69MYXIE4S	0393057550	467312085	Triumph and Tragedy in Mudville: A Lifelong Passion for Baseball	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Baseball Stories from a Lifelong Fan	Stephen Jay Gould grew up in New York City as a Yankees' fan during the late forties and into the fifties, a great time to learn to love the game of baseball.  For those of us fortunate to grow up during this era many of Gould's stories are familiar yet entertaining from his point of view.  Dusty Rhodes' heroics during the '54 Fall Classic and Don Larsen pitching his way to perfection in '56 are two examples.  The only drawback to the book from my point of view is the emphasis on why he feels noone will ever hit .400 anymore.  I am not a fan of statistics and charts, and a special section is devoted to figures which I realize entertain many baseball fans, but not this one.  I prefer stories, and Stephen Jay Gould has provided a number of them for baseball fans to cuddle up with.  It's a shame that his life was cut short in May of 2002 from cancer, but he did provide us with this book in addition to his comments on Ken Burns's video history of baseball a few years ago.	2003-04-17
US	51749393	R2QYS61TP5X93C	0385501528	839817883	The Last Good Season: Brooklyn, the Dodgers and Their Final Pennant Race Together	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	The Boys of Summer in Their Autumn	Books relating to specific years have been popular over the past several years with mixed results.  Author Michael Shapiro has provided us with an outstanding portrait of an aging Brooklyn Dodgers' team going down to the wire in the 1956 season to eek out a pennant over the Milwaukee Braves during the final days of the season.  The book is really two separate stories.  One involving a lot of politics between Dodgers' owner Walter O'Malley and Robert Moses, an appointed New York official, over the location of a new playing site for the Dodgers.  Moses wanted a site located on the present site of Shea Stadium while O'Malley wanted one nearer to Ebbets Field.  Shapiro labels Moses as the villain in the move of the Dodgers while O'Malley needed help in acquiring a new stadium, but was not going to get it.  Los Angeles promised him more than New York would even consider, so Walter made the move.  The one thing O'Malley and Moses shared in common, according to Shapiro, was an ignorance between the team and its fans.  Sometimes I felt overwhelmed with the politics involved between both sides in trying to get the deal each wanted, but Shapiro is very thorough in his research.  The book's chapters are divided into each month of the baseball season and what took place during each month.  A separate chapter is provided for the last week of the season and the World Series.  Interesting stories about players such as Robinson, Campanella, Erskine, Reese, Furillo, Newcombe, Labine, and an early season pickup of Sal &quot;The Barber&quot; Maglie from the Cleveland Indians make for very interesting reading even if you are familiar with the Dodgers of this era from other books.  It is ironic that former Giant and Dodger rival, Sal &quot;The Barber&quot; Maglie, was to be very instrumental in bringing the Dodgers home with the 1956 pennant. Interesting details of the deal that sent Maglie to the Dodgers from the Indians are provided. Maglie also authored his only no-hitter during the final week of the '56 season, before being victimized by Don Larsen's perfect game in the 5th game of the Series.  For the most part America wanted the Milwaukee Braves to win the '56 pennant just to have a new team in the Series, but the St. Louis Cardinals snuffed out the Braves' hopes in St. Louis while the Dodgers were beating the Pirates in Brooklyn.  If you feel you have read enough of the Brooklyn Dodgers in previous books, you owe it to yourself to read about this storied team during their Last Good Season.final week of the '56 season, before being victimized by Don Larsen's perfect game in the 5th game of the Series.  For the most part America wanted the Milwaukee Braves to win the '56 pennant just to have a new team in the Series, but the St. Louis Cardinals snuffed out the Braves' hopes in St. Louis while the Dodgers were beating the Pirates in Brooklyn.  If you feel you have read enough of the Brooklyn Dodgers in previous books, you owe it to yourself to read about this storied team during their Last Good Season.	2003-04-14
US	51749393	RSF0PC2KO378A	0151008248	46755433	Game Time: A Baseball Companion	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A Great Pair--Baseball Season and Roger Angell	If you are familiar with past baseball books of Roger Angell you know you are in for another treat with his latest offering.  Part of the book includes passages from past books, but, at least to me, it doesn't detract from this book at all.  A good part of the book covers recent playoffs and World Series including 2002 and if you followed the games during the past several years, these parts of the book will have additional meaning to you.  A lengthy section on former Cardinals' fireballer Bob Gibson and a visit with Smokey Joe Wood while viewing a college game between Yale and St. Johns with Ron Darling and Frank Viola matching up against one another are included as is a section on broadcaster Tim McCarver &quot;There's a lahn drahve!&quot;, and another on a scouting mission with California Angels scout Ray Scarborough.  Some of these offerings go back to the early 1960's until through the year 2002.  In describing playoff and World Series games, Angell doesn't merely recite game facts as to who got hits and scored runs.  He has a knack for making the reader feel he is there and tells the story with colorful prose.  Here are a few examples:  &quot;The hankie hordes were in full cry at the Metrodome, where the World Series began.&quot;  &quot;We repaired to Milwaukee, where, on a cold and blustery evening in the old steel-post park, County Stadium, Willie McGee staged his party.&quot;  Regarding Dennis Eckersley:  &quot;His eyes burning like flashlights as he spoke.&quot;  &quot;Luis Sojo, a Venezuelan, is thirty-four but looks as if he'd put on a much older guy's body that morning by mistake.&quot;  After working on a screwball in high school to imitate Giants' pitcher Carl Hubbell, Angell said, &quot;I began walking around school corridors with my pitching hand turned palm outward, like Carl Hubbell's, but nobody noticed.&quot;  I could go on and on and on with colorful tidbits found in the book, but I don't want to spoil it for you.  Suffice it to say, if you buy this book you are in for a treat.  Don't speed read it.  This isn't a book to be gulped.  It is like a Godiva chocolate bar.  This book is to be savored.this book you are in for a treat.  Don't speed read it.  This isn't a book to be gulped.  It is like a Godiva chocolate bar.  This book is to be savored.	2003-04-02
US	51749393	R1TS6K000H80BG	0231113420	741460417	Breaking the Slump	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Enjoyable Baseball History	It goes without saying that baseball's history dwarfs that of any other sport, and Charles Alexander has done an excellent job of covering the period of baseball during the 1930's and up to the beginning of the U.S.'s entry into World War II. It's true that this time period has been covered in other books, but it still is a very worthwhile read for anyone interested in baseball history regardless of whether you have read about this era or not. The advent of night baseball and the birth of baseball's Hall of Fame took place in the 1930's. Many of the game's players were suited for work in baseball and nothing else. As pitcher Waite Hoyt stated, \\"The trouble with baseball as a life's work is that it takes the player's best years and trains him for nothing else.\\" It is also the story of the racism that prevailed, not only in the major leagues, but in the country as well. Many of the greatest players such as Satchel Paige, James \\"Cool Papa\\" Bell, and Josh Gibson toiled in the Negro Leagues because they were denied entry into the lilly white major leagues by a \\"gentlemen's agreement\\" that owners denied even existed. Baseball struggled during the lean years of the 1930s, but many great players took part in the game and played for salaries that were better than workers in other paying jobs were receiving even though the reserve clause tied players to the club that signed them. The author hints that baseball during the '30s may have been better than any other time period, and many players feel the same. I guess players from any era feel their era was the best, but I would have to say the era following World War II may have been even better. I don't see how baseball could have been best during the 1930s when a large portion of the population was denied entry into the so-called national pastime. What I especially liked about the book was the author didn't bore the reader with an endless account of games and how runs were scored. I haven't liked all of Charles Alexander's books (in my opinion his book on Rogers Hornsby came up short), but this is a book you will enjoy if you enjoy baseball and its history.s (in my opinion his book on Rogers Hornsby came up short), but this is a book you will enjoy if you enjoy baseball and its history.	2003-02-24
US	51749393	R1FBY34KU5HH7I	0762723378	65283262	Where the Bodies Are: Final Visits to the Rich, Famous, & Interesting	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	A Book For Cemetery Connoisseurs	Visiting cemeteries is not only a lot of fun, but it is cheap entertainment when visiting a large city.  Autor Patricia Brooks has divided the book into regions of the country and provided both pictures and interesting tidbits of the famous and infamous who are buried around the country.  More photos in the book would have been desirable, but then the amount of text would have had to have been reduced.  Following the information as to who is buried in each of the visited cemeteries, the address, visiting hours, and telephone number is provided for those who plan on a closer look of their own.  Many interesting individuals had to be omitted due to the number of people buried in places such as New York and California.  However, the book may be on an off-beat subject, but it is, nevertheless, an interesting book on an interesting subject.  If you enjoy prowling through cemeteries looking for the graves of notables this book will not disappoint you.	2003-02-18
US	51749393	RANW1ZEQ9UJJ7	0786412267	770244797	Before They Were the Bombers: The New York Yankees' Early Years, 1903-1919	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Baseball and Social History	Being the first person to review this book shows that this book is a nugget that has been ignored by readers interested in baseball history.  Author Jim Reisler takes us back to the beginning of the 20th century of baseball's dead ball era.  The New York Highlanders opened the 1903 season after the franchise was moved from Baltimore and sold to owners Frank Farrell and Bill Devery for $18,000.  Managed by the likes of Clark Griffith, Kid Elberfeld, George Stallings, Harry Wolverton, Hal Chase, Frank Chance, and Roger Peckinpaugh the Highlanders of 1903-1915 had very un-Yankee like years while residing at Hilltop Park at 168th Street and Broadway and then at the Polo Grounds.  This is also the story of Willie Keeler of \\"hit 'em where they ain't\\" fame and Happy Jack Chesbro who won 41 games in 1904 and then losing the pennant when he threw a wild pitch (past ball?)as the winning run scored.  The book is also about gambling and the fixing of games during this time period.  The author spends a lot of time on Hal Chase, who author and baseball historian Fred Lieb said \\"had a corkscrew brain.\\"  Chase had a reputation of being a superb defensive first baseman when the mood suited him.  However, as the author points out, Chase remains the league's all-time leader for errors at first base with 285.  Chase made numerous promises to turn over a new leaf each year and with each new team he played with, but all to no avail.  His drinking and gambling had too great a hold on him, and shortly before his death he is quoted as saying, \\"I'd give anything if I could start in all over again.  What a change there would be in the life of Hal Chase.\\"  What a sad ending for anyone to review their life this way.  Reisler briefly mentions Chase's possible role in the 1919 World Series fix, and states that \\"the White Sox players were eventually found guilty and banned for life from baseball.\\"  I'm sure the author is aware that the eight players were acquitted in a court of law and then banned from baseball by Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis.  Author Reisler concludes the book with the demise of those influential in the Highlanders' history and also a photo of the approximate location of home plate on the site of the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.  The author correctly points out by saying \\"New York is like that--turn a street corner, take note of where you are and you're likely to be somewhere with a rich past.\\"  Yankee fan or not, this book should be read and reviewed by many others besides myself.  Do yourself a favor and read it.from baseball by Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis.  Author Reisler concludes the book with the demise of those influential in the Highlanders' history and also a photo of the approximate location of home plate on the site of the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.  The author correctly points out by saying \\"New York is like that--turn a street corner, take note of where you are and you're likely to be somewhere with a rich past.\\"  Yankee fan or not, this book should be read and reviewed by many others besides myself.  Do yourself a favor and read it.	2003-01-31
US	51749393	R339EYRIZ9AIFC	0873385829	796573363	The Life and Death of Pretty Boy Floyd	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	A Short and Violent Life	Author Jeffery King has provided us with an interesting account of the short and violent life of Charles Arthur Floyd.  Floyd was one of many depression-era desperadoes who focused on bank-robbing as a way of life.  One of the things that struck me was the relative ease of breaking out of jail or prison during this time.  Another was the putting on display of the dead bodies of gangsters during this time period for the curious public.  Floyd was defended by his mother who claimed he didn't do as many things as he was accused of.  He apparently agreed to surrender to authorities if he could be assured of life in prison and not get the death penalty.  When no such deal was forthcoming, Floyd realized that his time was short and he would be shot to death.  Also of interest in this story is the jealously of F.B.I. Director John Edgar Hoover towards officer Melvin Purvis.  Hoover had Purvis leave the scene of the shooting of Floyd immediately to minimize the credit given to him.  Maybe Hoover should have been focusing on big time mobsters instead of small time hoodlums like Floyd.  There also is controversy regarding the death of Floyd and if it was, indeed, necessary to kill him after he had been wounded in an Ohio field.  The author has done an excellent job researching this book, and it is worth your time to read it if you are interested in depression era gangsters.	2003-01-24
US	51749393	R3K8X6C1ZWZMJ9	037540709X	933934628	In the Devil's Snare: The Salem Witchcraft Crisis of 1692	Books	3	24	27	N	N	Not A Book For Neophytes	This book may be the most exhaustive one ever written on the Salem witchcraft trials.  I have read other books on the subject, but I found this one to be tough going.  It is not a book for beginners.  I have always wondered whether the girls were faking their seizure-like behavior, and I finally found the author's belief on the second to the last page.  Author Norton believes the younger girls ages thirteen and under exhibited genuine fits for unknown causes.  What about the physical causes such as bleeding and teeth marks, and what caused them?  Did they injure themself?  The author admits to not having an answer.  Some of the older girls in their late teens and early twenties appear to have possibly taken part in collusion in their accusations of others.  I guess if that is the case, and their victims were hanged for it, the girls could rightfully be accused of murder.  I found parts of the book such as the trials of various ones tough going.  The author has tied the witchcraft in Essex County, Massachusetts, to the Indian wars (King Philip's War and King William's War) in the area now known as Maine.  If you haven't done any reading on this subject I would suggest you find one of several other books on Salem witchcraft that is available.  This book would be suitable for those looking for a very detailed treatment of the subject.  I based my rating of three stars on my interest level, but I'm sure those with a greater understanding of the subject would rate it higher.	2003-01-09
US	51749393	R3UEUT5MFJCPOX	093579655X	953835024	Jack 'Legs' Diamond: Anatomy of a Gangster	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A Short, But Apparently Accurate, Biography	Author Gary Levine has written an accurate, as far as the facts go that he is able to determine, of gangster Jack \\"Legs\\" Diamond who acquired his name for his nimbleness on the dance floor.  This book abounds with the shady characters that made up the New York underworld during the time period from approximately 1927 through Diamond's murder in Albany, New York, in December of 1931.  Levine provides various theories as to who was responsible for Diamond's death, and suggests that the death of Fats McCarthy in a shootout with police in July of 1932 eliminated him as a choice suspect.  Levine believes Diamond's psychopathic personality was the cause of his waywardness.  The only person he showed loyalty to was his brother Eddie. His marriages were failures as were his friendships with other people.  In addition, Diamond's carelessness \\"Nobody can kill Legs Diamond\\" made him a mark for enemies who failed in four pervious attempts to kill him.  He was popular with the young who often idolized him and to other adults who were thrilled with an autograph.  In reality, however, this is the story of a failed man who through greed and corruption left a mark of infamy on this period of American history.	2003-01-02
US	51749393	RR96K1DXYK7J0	0870001094	764643956	Kill the Dutchman!: The story of Dutch Schultz	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Paul Sann Covers His Subject Well	Paul Sann's effort in bringing back a violent period in America's history is successful in his account of the life of Arthur Fregenheimer, better known to intimates as \\"Dutch\\" Schultz, The Beer Baron of the Bronx.  A detailed account of The Dutchman's demise is given and those involved in The Palace Bar and Chop House in Newark, New Jersey, in October of 1935.  Three of Schultz's cronies in addition to The Dutchman were dispatched in a gunfight in which Charlie Workman shot Schultz in the mens' room.  The book is filled with infamous names from the prohibition days in New York's underworld.  Author Paul Sann has written other books regarding the post World War I era, and this book on Dutch Schultz illustrates the stressfulness of just staying alive for gangsters during this time period.	2003-01-02
US	51749393	R1GTTE1NML6SHH	158574364X	642505955	The Greatest Baseball Stories Ever Told	Books	5	37	37	N	Y	The Title Says It All	The baseball stories that make up this book make it possible to call this book the Greatest Baseball Stories Ever Told.  These stories have appeared in years past in the three Fireside books of baseball that are currently out of print.  Since they are no longer available it would be advisable for you to strike while the iron is hot and buy this book.  The book contains both fiction and non-fiction and certainly doesn't cover all the great stories that the Fireside books contain, but you can't argue with the thirty that make up this book.  I would especially recommend this book for youngsters interested in baseball literature who weren't around to enjoy the Fireside books.	2003-01-02
US	51749393	R2EANKXK1GJ2SM	0060002182	507463742	Amazing Grace :  The Story of America's Most Beloved Song	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	The Story Behind the Song	This book is divided into two parts.  The first part tells the reader the history behind the song involving the slave trader named John Newton who, even after his conversion, saw no conflict between his Christian beliefs and transporting Africans against their will into a life of involuntary servitude.  How was he able to praise God for the gift of freedom while denying it to others?  Perhaps it was because people at this time, Newton included, didn't think that slaves had souls, or that they could, like him, receive God's grace.  Newton believed that his faith only required him to be a more humane slave trader.  After suffering a stroke, Newton's career as a slave trader came to an abrupt end.  It wasn't until the mid 1780's that Newton publicly spoke out about slavery.  If Africans have the same spiritual and intellectual capacity as whites, then slavery would not be possible to justify.<br />  The second half of the book is about the history of the song along with various singers who have performed the song.  Special attention is given to Judy Collins who introduced the song to a new audience with her 1970 hit recording.  The timing appeared to be correct with America entangled in the Vietnam war, Charles Manson was in the news, and people yearned for a less complicated lifestyle.  Other singers of the time such as The Byrds (Turn, Turn, Turn), Simon and Garfunkel (Bridge Over Troubled Waters), and Norman Greenbaum (Spirit in the Sky), are mentioned that came out with appropriate songs during this troubled time.  Other hymnwriters such as William Cowper (pronounced \\"Cooper\\") who appeared to have some emotional problems and wrote some hymns that may be considered on the depressing side are also  mentioned.  Of interest to me regarding Amazing Grace is that my favorite verse \\"When we've been there ten thousand years.  Bright shining as the sun.  We've no less days to sing God's praise than when we first begun.\\" was not written by John Newton, but added to the song by Edwin Othello Excell who may have taken the idea from Harriet Beecher Stowe's book about slavery called Uncle Tom's Cabin or from former slaves.  These lines originated in the hymn \\"Jerusalem, My Happy Home.\\" and then applied to \\"Amazing Grace by Excell.<br />  There is a lot to learn about this anthem of Christian hymns for everyone.  Sadly, there are probably a number of people who think the word \\"grace\\" applies only to the name of a girl.by Edwin Othello Excell who may have taken the idea from Harriet Beecher Stowe's book about slavery called Uncle Tom's Cabin or from former slaves.  These lines originated in the hymn \\"Jerusalem, My Happy Home.\\" and then applied to \\"Amazing Grace by Excell.<BR>     There is a lot to learn about this anthem of Christian hymns for everyone.  Sadly, there are probably a number of people who think the word \\"grace\\" applies only to the name of a girl.	2002-12-30
US	51749393	RY14YYZGCYR6T	0684810271	634463914	The Conquerors: Roosevelt, Truman and the Destruction of Hitler's Germany, 1941-1945	Books	5	14	18	N	Y	Difficult Decisions Proved to be Successful	I have not read any of the other reviews because I didn't want to be influenced by someone else's thinking.  I wanted to read the book because this is what was taking place in the world when I was an infant.  Roosevelt, Churchill, and Stalin having to decide what to do with post-war Germany as they met at Yalta.  Truman, Churchill, and Stalin meeting at Postdam, Germany, to decide the same.  Secretary of the Treasury Henry Morgenthau wanting to punish Germany to an extent that would likely anger the Germans to the extent that the Treaty of Versailles following WWI led to the rise of Adolph Hitler.  Had Roosevelt and Truman not insisted that Germany never again threaten the world, the country might be more dangerous today.  Monuments to World War II Germans are found in Germany today, but not to Hitler or any of his cronies.  The author brings out the personalities of Roosevelt, Churchill, Stalin, Truman, and other members of Roosevelt's cabinet to illustrate their strengths, weaknesses, and insecurities.  Roosevelt's controversial decision not to publicly acknowledge the Nazi murder of the Jews is debated.  Perhaps, it is suggested, that Roosevelt wanted the world to feel the main issue in WWII was to win the war against Nazism, not to favor any special interest group.  Also, because it may have prolonged the war since any bombing of the death camps would  divert planes from other targets.  Roosevelt must have assumed he would live through his fourth term since Truman was thrust into the presidency as a neophyte and had to hurridly learn on the job.  He distinguished himself well.  He had to make the controversial decision to drop the atomic bombs on Japan which saved thousands of lives of American soldiers when Japan surrendered.  A lot was going on when I came into this world and this book provided me with a greater insight of what was taking place.	2002-12-23
US	51749393	RWGKMHPM289OU	0743202759	183886224	To America: Personal Reflections of an Historian	Books	5	28	28	N	Y	His Last Book: His Best	Whenever Stephen Ambrose would be asked which of his books is his best, he would answer by saying his latest one. This effort entitled \\"To America\\" is not the longest by any stretch, but of the half dozen of his books that I have read, I enjoyed this one the most. Ambrose covers America from our country's beginnings right into the year 2002 when he died. Obviously he can't go into the detail he did in other efforts, but he covers our nation's history in succinct detail and explaining why he admires men such as Ulysses Grant, Andrew Jackson, Theodore and Franklin Roosevelt, Dwight Eisenhower, and Jackie Robinson. History, Ambrose tells us, \\"is about people, and nothing could be more fascinating to people than other people, living in a different time, in different circumstances.\\" This is about people who are well known and those who are not, who have made significant contributions to America who we owe a debt of thanks for their life. Ambrose says the technological improvements of the 19th century became killing machines that turned the great wars of the 20th century into the worst century ever. Racism, women's rights, nation building, and the threat we face from the Islamic world are other subjects Ambrose touches on. The book is only 252 pages long, and if you are looking for an outstanding summary of our country's history this book will certainly hold your interest.	2002-12-17
US	51749393	R1ARDQ37F25WTL	0060195339	45372276	Sandy Koufax: A Lefty's Legacy	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Time When The Owners Held All The Cards	I saw Sandy Koufax pitch once during his career.  It was on August 8, 1964, in Milwaukee against the Braves.  My memory of that game is Sandy Koufax diving back into second base on a pickoff attempt.  When he reached third base, he was twirling his left arm around.  Shortly thereafter he received the diagnosis of arthritis in his left elbow.  Koufax was built with huge muscles in his back and arms and this very build made it possible for him to throw as well as he did, but it also meant he was due to break down earlier.  Sports medicine was still in the future and pitchers pitched until they were worn out and then the owners got somebody else.  Pitchers were disposable and since players weren't paid very much no attempt was made to protect them.  Sandy had a contentious relationship with manager Walter Alston who, for whatever reason, wouldn't pitch Koufax early in his career even in years the Dodgers weren't involved in any pennant race.  Pitchers weren't placed on pitch counts during the 1960's and there were seasons when Koufax logged over 300 innings and pitchers pitched every fourth day.  Can you imagine pitching a complete game during spring training?  Where was the common sense of managers during this time?  Think about this for a minute.  The total Dodger payroll for the fifteen years Buzzie Bavasi was general manager equals Kevin Brown's $15 million annual salary.  When Koufax pitched his perfect game against the Cubs, Dodger Owner Walter O'Malley let the moths fly out of his wallet and gave Sandy a $500 raise.  Prior to the start of the 7th game of the 1965 World Series against the Twins the Dodgers had a meeting in which Manager Walter Alston announced to the team who would start the game on the mound.  Dick Tracewski remembers Alston saying, \\"We're going to start the left-hander.  After that we have Drysdale and Perranoski in the bullpen.\\"  Tracewski noted that Sandy felt he should have called him by name instead of simply referring to him as \\"the left-hander.\\"  I agree.  It appears that Alston wanted to maintain that distant relationship he had with Sandy.  Many people consider Koufax somewhat of a recluse, but he shows up at Dodger fantasy camps, Hall of Fame induction ceremonies, and funerals of former teammates such as Joe Black and Pee Wee Reese.  A prize possession of Cubs' pitcher Bob Hendley, who was Sandy's pitching opponent in the perfect game and who gave up only one hit himself and lost 1-0, is a baseball signed by Koufax with the simple inscription, \\"What a game.\\"  The book is really two stories alternating between the innings of the perfect game and Sandy's career.  If you're a sports fan, this book should have a permanent place in your bookcase.ander.\\"  I agree.  It appears that Alston wanted to maintain that distant relationship he had with Sandy.  Many people consider Koufax somewhat of a recluse, but he shows up at Dodger fantasy camps, Hall of Fame induction ceremonies, and funerals of former teammates such as Joe Black and Pee Wee Reese.  A prize possession of Cubs' pitcher Bob Hendley, who was Sandy's pitching opponent in the perfect game and who gave up only one hit himself and lost 1-0, is a baseball signed by Koufax with the simple inscription, \\"What a game.\\"  The book is really two stories alternating between the innings of the perfect game and Sandy's career.  If you're a sports fan, this book should have a permanent place in your bookcase.	2002-11-26
US	51749393	RWHR8LR42AV77	0025630709	601888909	And a Hard Rain Fell: A Gi's True Story of the War in Vietnam	Books	4	16	19	N	N	One Soldier's View on Serving in Vietnam	Not having ever served in the military I don't know how typical John Ketwig's experiences he relates in this book are, but I did find it to be a very interesting book.  Given the choice, Ketwig would rather have not served in the military at all, but he enlisted in the hopes of avoiding being sent to Vietnam.  His recruiter told him he would probably end up in Germany.  He relates a story that took place in basic training involving a recruit named \\"Fatso\\" who was physically abused by a sadistic sergeant who took advantage of his authoritative position to bully this soldier in ways that this so-called officer will have to live with for the rest of his life.  The soldier eventually took his own life and the officer was \\"relieved\\" of his duties.  Ketwig's attitude probably was typical of other soldiers in that they just wanted to put in their time in Vietnam and survive.  Rather than come home to an uncertain future after his year in Vietnam to serve the remainder of his time, he volunteered for a year in Thailand.  Once home, he felt he didn't have much in common with his former classmates who were now in college.  He saw a lot in his two years in the military and now came home to find it hard to get a job.  Ketwig provides the reader with a cynical view of the army, and not having served in the military, who am I to say he is wrong.  I can only say I enjoyed the book and found it easy to read.  I'm sure a lot of veterans who served in a like capacity will be able to identify with him.	2002-11-20
US	51749393	RCZTSDN30T3M5	0961875232	102184235	Breaking the Rock: The Great Escape from Alcatraz	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	A Book That Is Hard To Put Down	Author Jolene Babyak was a child at Alcatraz while her father was the assistant warden and provides us with minute details of the 1962 escape attempt by inmates West, Morris, and the Anglin brothers. The detailed planning, cooperation from other inmates, and the special care that went into this attempt is astounding and I got the feeling the inmates were convinced they actually would make it to shore in their raft while, perhaps, forgetting just how difficult their task would be once they hit the water. We are left to wonder whether inmate West had a change of heart and stayed behind because he was afraid of the water or being doublecrossed by the Anglin brothers or was he just lucky he stayed behind because he couldn't get out of the back of his cell. He was left to tell the tale while the others just vanished, most likely to a watery grave. I did find quite a number of spelling and grammatical mistakes. I was lucky to tour Alcatraz two weeks ago and have the author autograph my copy of the book. This book, along with the Battle at Alcatraz by Ernest Lageson describing the 1946 escape attempt are both first rate and worth reading.	2002-11-15
US	51749393	R28B2E9Y7TWN8N	1886039372	479301363	Battle at Alcatraz: A Desperate Attempt to Escape the Rock	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Riveting, Interesting, and Readable	Author Ernest Lageson provides us with an account of the 1946 attempted breakout at Alcatraz prison during which time his father was a guard at the institution.  He provides the reader with the details of a well-planned attempt by inmates to vacate &quot;The Rock&quot;.  The best laid plans go sour for the strangest reasons, and this plan went awry because a guard decided to keep a key to the recreation yard in his pocket because he was to reuse it shortly instead of returning it where it belonged.  The inmates were unable to locate the key and their plot was foiled. The author provides us with details of the personalities of the inmates involved and their frustration when things began to go wrong.  Author Lageson was a schoolboy at the time, and he expresses his agony in not knowing whether his father was alive or not.  Conflict between Warden James Johnston and his associate, Edward Miller, in resolving the takeover is gone into detail with Warden Johnston appearing as confused as to what to do to rescue the guards in the cell block and quash the uprising.  According to the author, Johnston had his facts wrong, also, when providing details to the press.  Having just visited Alcatraz last week I wanted to read this book and was able to visualize the inside of the prison.  I found this book very interesting to read.  I can't imagine a reviewer who found it to be boring.  I would highly recommend the book to you.	2002-11-10
US	51749393	R2U5AMXNCP5LS5	0375409009	105731385	Masters of Death: The SS-Einsatzgruppen and the Invention of the Holocaust	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Graphic Reading	Author Richard Rhodes has provided the reader with very graphic accounts of Jewish people being murdered during World War II.  I realize many books have been written regarding this subject, but what this book provided me with was the author stating that emphasizing that psychological trauma that was suffered by those involved with the murder of noncombatants in no way lessens the crime.  On the contrary, the mental conflict that is suffered provides evidence that the Einsatzgruppen were aware that what they were doing was wrong even though it came down as an order from the German government.  Abigail Adams warned America during the writing of the Constitution to beware of putting umlimited power in the hands of men because all men would be tyrants if they could.  This warning should have very well been heeded by Germany before Hitler came to power.  As Rhodes states in his book, \\"Without robust checks and balances, a leader's appetite for domination...can become insatiable...\\"  If you have read a number of other books on the holocaust, I don't know that you need to read this one, also.  I found myself skimming parts of it.  The parts describing Heinrich Himmler and Reinhard Heydrich,\\"The Blond Beast\\" were interesting.	2002-11-07
US	51749393	RGVG6UKKCXTZN	0060198184	209241845	The Lost Fleet: The Discovery of a Sunken Armada from the Golden Age of Piracy	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Two Stories In One Book	Barry Clifford has written an interesting book on a fleet of French ships that were in pursuit of Dutch ships which led the French into the treacherous waters of the reef off of Las Aves Island near the coast of Venezuela in 1678.  He states the wreckage of the French fleet on Las Aves was the beginning of some of the greatest pirate careers in history.  British and French ships would attack Spanish ships as they returned to Spain after loading up on riches in the New World.  Many pirates, Clifford states, met a brutal demise and he goes into detail in regard to a number of pirates to illustrate his point while one in particular, Thomas Paine (not the one of Common Sense fame), managed to retire and lead a somewhat respectable life.  Clifford organized a team to visit the site in 1998 and locate the fleet for purposes of drawing and photographing whatever he may find of the remains.  He was not interested in disturbing the reef by removing artifacts.  Clifford goes into interesting detail on his team's visit to Las Aves as they go about doing their assigned work.  Clifford alternates throughout the book covering piracy during the 1600's and his visit to the site during 1998.  I took a chance on buying this book through the History Book Club not really knowing what I was getting. I found this book to be very worth while to read and it will have a permanent place in my library.	2002-10-05
US	51749393	REO5ZOTSXGVIW	039914711X	121745400	No End Save Victory: Perspectives on World War II	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Heavyweight Authors Write on World War II	We have heavyweight authors such as William Manchester, Stephen Ambrose, Caleb Carr, John Keegan, and others write essays covering all aspects of World War II in this heavyweight volume of 688 pages.  The essays are fairly short so you can put the book down and come back to it later without feeling you have to pick up where you left off.  From familiar stories such as the invasion of Normandy to an interesting story on Germany's Black Knight, Field Marshal von Rundstedt and another on General Curtis LeMay will provide you, the reader, with additional information whatever your background on World War II.  As mentioned, the book is long, but the essays enable you to break the book up into managable parts so you are able to pioneer your way through it successfully.  Don't be intimidated by the length.  It is worth the time to wade through it.	2002-10-02
US	51749393	R2ZIBT5NRU4QQV	0967510902	833729283	Strength Down the Middle - The Story of the 1959 Chicago White Sox	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Sorry, But I Was Disappointed	Author Kalas has provided the reader with pretty much a game by game summary of the 1959 Chicago White Sox season.  I went through the book in two sittings.  The book contains too much game summaries with no real in depth information.  Occasionally, he provides some nostalgic information from that period of time. I was in high school when the Pale Hose won their first flag in forty years so I am well aware of this time period and the players that were on each team's roster.  The author concludes the book with a biographical summary of each player and mentions if they are now deceased.  I guess I expected more.  If you want to read a book on the 1959 White Sox I would suggest &quot;'59: Summer of the Sox.&quot;	2002-09-21
US	51749393	R2IJ4M558Q90OM	188869808X	290067226	Invincible Summer: Traveling America in Search of Yesterday's Baseball Greats	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Certainly A Different Type of Book	Author Dave D'Antonio has written an interesting book on his travels visiting cemeteries across the country and attending baseball games on all levels while traveling in his car &quot;Nellie.&quot; I, too, find it interesting visiting cemeteries and locating graves of the famous and infamous.  Dave also visited with people who could provide him with information on the individual he was looking for.  It was a tiring trip for this middle school history teacher to take on his own, but if you would like a quick read on an offbeat subject on baseball, this book will hold your interest.  I enjoyed the book, but four stars, not five.	2002-09-21
US	51749393	R780DFQUNKJUT	0805040773	868089428	Irving Berlin: American Troubadour	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	A Very Detailed Biography	Author Edward Jablonski has written a very thorough book covering the life of Irving Berlin.  This is the third biography I have read on Irving Berlin and in many ways it is much the same as the other two.  One thing I did notice in this book is the detailed plot explanations of Berlin's plays that he wrote over the years. I did not necessarily care for all this detail, but it does provide the reader with information he may or may not care about. As an introductory book on Irving Berlin I would recommend &quot;Irving Berlin--A Life in Song&quot; by Philip Furia.  Author Jablonski's book &quot;American Troubadour&quot; or Laurence Bergreen's book entitled &quot;As Thousands Cheer&quot; would be best read for someone who already has some introductory knowledge of Irving Berlin.	2002-09-15
US	51749393	R2N9ACE51I91DW	087131942X	591671738	Dead End: The Crime Story of the Decade--Murder, Incest and High-Tech Thievery	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Detailed Study of the Irene Silverman Murder Case	I previously read Kent Walker's book \\"Son of A Grifter\\" and enjoyed it immensely.  Maybe it is because I was already familiar with Sante and Kenny Kimes that I found this book to be somewhat less exciting.  The author gives a very detailed study of the Irene Silverman murder case in which the Kimes were convicted.  One thing that did bother me was the switching from the Kimes' previous adventures in one chapter and then to the situation involving Irene Silverman in the following chapter and then back to the past once again. However, this is a very worth while book on this deadly duo who thankfully has been put out of commission. Even if you have already read \\"Son of A Grifter\\" you will still enjoy author Jeanne King's rendition.	2002-09-14
US	51749393	R2TNBW0P3MZ30M	1581822723	424420410	Baby Face Nelson: Portrait of a Public Enemy	Books	5	17	20	N	Y	What A Way to Live	The era of the depression desperado was a very short lived one, but the authors do a great job researching the life of Lester Gillis, aka Baby Face Nelson.  Partners in crime such as John Dillinger, Homer Van Meter, Pretty Boy Floyd, and others are included in this book close to 400 pages long.  Don't let the length keep you from reading it, because I believe you will find it hard to put down.  I especially enjoyed the lengthy section devoted to the fiasco at the Little Bohemia lodge near Rhinelander, Wisconsin, in which federal agents staged a shootout with gangsters.  Gillis (Nelson) was responsible for killing one of the agents while another agent killed an innocent person staying at the lodge he thought was a gangster.  In any event, the bad guys escaped and lived to fight another day.  The price these men paid for their violent lifestyle showed in the tension they constantly lived under as they covered their tracks to avoid detection from the law.  At times they wistfully envied the simpler lifestyles of the common man who had an everyday job.  I'm not that familiar with the suburbs north of Chicago, but I was confused when the author mentioned that Niles Center is now Wilmette in the picture section of the book, and then on page 361 Niles Center is referred to now as Skokie.  Was Niles Center part of both suburbs?  This is a well researched book and easy to read.  Make sure you have a good amount of time when you sit down to read it, because you are not going to want to put it down.  I highly recommend this book to you.	2002-09-05
US	51749393	R1D09CE3LC3QJT	1582341338	48070599	Typhoid Mary: An Urban Historical	Books	4	19	20	N	N	A Quick Interesting Read	Author Anthony Bourdain provides the reader with a quick 148 page story of Mary Mallon, known to history as Typhoid Mary.  Mary worked as a cook in the New York City area at the turn of the 20th century and unwittingly spread typhoid germs to those she served, although she, herself, appeared healthy.  Author Bourdain goes into detail as to how Mary was tracked down and fingered as the culprit in the spreading of typhoid.  Mary strongly denied her role in the spreading of the germs to those she served.  Mary spent the last years of her unhappy life on North Brother island located just north of Riker's Island in New York City.  The author also provides us with living conditions in New York City at the turn of the 20th century.I had heard of Typhoid Mary and this quick read will fill you in with some very interesting details in her life.  The author concludes the book with a visit he made to Mary's grave in the Bronx in 1973 in which he, himself a cook, left his first chef's knife at the base of Mary's stone behind the tall grass as a gift to her as he said, \\"from cook to cook.\\"  This book will also make you think about the cleanliness of restaurants you eat in today.	2002-09-02
US	51749393	R1FTG2PS4E1PYE	0802713750	908464747	Lusitania: An Epic Tragedy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Well Researched Book	Author Diana Preston has done an outstanding job in researching the sinking of the Lusitania on May 7, 1915.  All I knew about the ship was that the Germans had sunk it with a torpedo from a submarine and that helped to bring the U.S. into World War I.  Even today, she writes, the myth is that the U.S. entered the war as a direct result.  America, however, was not ready for war and it took two years before we entered on the side of the allies.  Author Preston covers the questions as to whether the ship was carrying munitions from New York to England and how many torpedos were used (one) to sink the ship.  Questions arose as to the possibility of a second torpedo hitting the ship, but the explosion resulting from the first hit came from elsewhere on the ship.  Other questions such as why the ship wasn't traveling faster to discourage torpedos and why the ship didn't have an escort once in dangerous waters are also debated.  The behavior of members of the ship, both crew and passengers, are also considered.  There was no P.A. system to direct passengers in 1915 and the proper use of life jackets was not given.  The author believes passengers would not have put up with drills of any sort.  Some passengers died as a result of putting the jackets on incorrectly.  Finally, what happened to surviving members of the crew and passengers, as well as the captain of the German submarine that gave the order to fire the torpedo is given.  I didn't realize the ship was only about 13 miles off the coast of southern Ireland when it was torpedoed.  I bought this book with the thought of giving it away after reading it, but this is one book that will remain in my library.  If you want to treat yourself to an exceptional book, you can't go wrong with this one.	2002-08-19
US	51749393	R159J6MJXX3523	0380976161	274583413	The Day the American Revolution Began: 19 April 1775	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	A Great Introduction to the Revolutionary War	Whether you are well versed in the Revolutionary War or not, this book will provide you with a great introduction to the main characters (warts and all) who were instrumental in America's bid to become a free and independent country from England.  Sam Adams, Paul Revere, John Hancock, William Dawes, Samuel Prescott, Thomas Paine, Patrick Henry, and numerous others are presented here as human beings with their failures, weaknesses, and jealousies.  This book doesn't cover the entire war, just the beginnings at Lexington and Concord and how those beginnings affected goings on in New York, Philadelphia, and Williamsburg.  What is especially interesting is the conclusion of the book mentions what happened to each of the characters who were instrumental in the Revolutionary War's beginnings.  The book is easy reading and will be enjoyable to you even if you have only a rudimentary background in this subject.  If you want to know more about our country's beginnings without going through the entire war, this would be a very interesting book for you to read.	2002-07-24
US	51749393	RF4697T002ITC	0892046856	145289077	Glove Stories : The Collected Baseball Writings of Dave Kindred	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Great Baseball Stories to Be Savored	I was a thirty year subscriber to The Sporting News (1959-1989), but dropped out when they branched out into sports other than baseball so I was not familiar with Dave Kindred. I do, however, enjoy books of sportswriters' columns of their best stories. I took a chance on Dave Kindred since the subject was baseball and was pleasantly surprised. He covers a wide variety of subjects with humor and nostalgia sure to satisfy anyone interested in baseball writing. If you consider yourself a baseball fan at all this is a book that deserves a permanent place in your library amongst the volumes of Jim Murray, Red Smith, Jerry Holtzman, Tom Boswell, Roger Angell, and Roger Kahn to name a few. Be good to yourself! Buy the book!	2002-06-24
US	51749393	RT60Z4ZF5WWGK	0375507280	722513147	The Life and Times of the Last Kid Picked	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Kids Are the Same Everywhere	Author David Benjamin relates his childhood experiences of growing up attending a Catholic school in Tomah, Wisconsin, during the 1950's.  Whether you grew up during this decade or not you  can relate to the experiences he describes regarding playing baseball without Little League, football, fishing, and attending your first high school basketball game.  Of special interest is the degree of ridicule children heap upon one another in playing games.  I did find an error on page 173 in which the author says he &quot;remembers Harvey Haddix pitching thirteen no-hit innings against the Braves in Pittsburgh&quot; when it was twelve perfect innings he pitched against the Pirates and the game was in Milwaukee, not Pittsburgh.  It was May 26, 1959, when the Kitten carved history with his left paw.  Nevertheless, if you want to relive your childhood through the eyes of author David Benjamin, you will find this a most interesting and humorous book to read.  If you are from the decade of the 1950's or if you want to see what being a child was like during that time period, you will enjoy this book.	2002-06-10
US	51749393	R3VURPMUYZ14KI	1557501696	595506435	In the Shadow of the Ayatollah: A CIA Hostage in Iran	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A Timely Review for Those Who Remember	Author William Daugherty provides the reader with a review of the incidents leading up to the 1979 taking of American hostages from the American embassy in Iran.  The first nine chapters provide you with background information regarding the shah and relations between the the United States and Iran.  The author then provides us with details regarding the taking of the embassy by the Iranians, their unskilled attempts at questioning him, the food they were provided to eat, and their movement from one place to another.  Author Daugherty believes the embassy would not have been taken over by the Iranians if the shah had come directly to the U.S. from Iran in 1979 for medican treatment.  However, it was a mistake to let the shah &quot;roam the world for ten months&quot; before entering the U.S. that led the embassy to be taken over by the Iranians.  Bitterness towards then President Carter was in the minds of the former hostages when released.  Carter addressed the former hostages and took a few polite questions until a State Department officer commented that the embassy had provided plenty of advance warning of what would happen if the shah entered the United States.  Mr. Carter then looked to the floor, raised his head and smiled, and said he wanted his picture taken with each of them.  Thus ended the meeting.  The author does, however, praise Mr. Carter for his volunteer work since leaving office.  The author also does a great job in providing examples of discussions with the Iranian guards and the futility of dealing with people who have closed minds.  The Iranians somehow believed that the removal of President Carter in favor of Ronald Reagan would help their cause.  They assumed that anyone who was Carter's opponent would be their friend.  This despite the fact they were holding Americans against their will, claiming America was their enemy, and desecrating the American flag.  I don't have time to list any additional examples here, but page 163 provides an outstanding example of the logic of their reasoning regarding stopping for a traffic light at 2:00 a.m.ing example of the logic of their reasoning regarding stopping for a traffic light at 2:00 a.m.	2002-06-10
US	51749393	R11XCRNWQVNUED	006019619X	496866529	Down the Great Unknown: John Wesley Powell's 1869 Journey of Discovery and Tragedy Through the Grand Canyon	Books	5	6	7	N	N	This Book is Definitely Worth Your Time	If you enjoy adventure and American history you are in for a treat.  My knowledge of John Wesley Powell and his cohorts 1869 trip down the Colorado River through the Grand Canyon was nonexistent so anything I read was new to me.  In addition to literally riding the rapids with Powell's group through their three months trip we are also given a history lesson on Powell and the Battle of Shiloh during the Civil War in which a number of interesting facts are given to illustrate the horror of the Civil War.  Powell was extremely interested in geology and he was thrilled with what he was experiencing on the trip through the Grand Canyon and oblivious to the fact that his mates were experiencing frustration at his leisure pace while starvation loomed due to inadequate provisions.  One individual of the ten men crew left the group after the first narrow escape and three others left only one day before exiting the canyon and were eventually murdered under mysterious circumstances.  Powell made a second trip a few years later but aborted the trip when halfway through the canyon.  What became of the remaining six members of the ten man group who made the 1869 trip is also provided in addition to interesting facts about the Grand Canyon that will most likely be new to you.  You shouldn't hesitate to give this book a try.  I'm sure you will not be disappointed.	2002-05-21
US	51749393	R1D2WR4JBT5PYN	0312282575	635122671	Knight: My Story	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Don't Prejudge Coach Knight	I am not a basketball fan of any level.  My personal library consists of hundreds of baseball books, but less than five basketball books.  I have heard about Coach Knight and his alleged abusive treatment of players, and expected a book laced with profanities.  I was pleasantly surprised with the very minimal amount of swearing the book contained.  I have no doubt that Coach Knight has the best interests of his players in mind in giving their best efforts whether it be on the basketball floor, in the classroom, or in any other employment they may be involved in.  A number of very respected people in many walks of life are Coach Knight supporters. Ted Williams, Mark McGuire, and Tony LaRussa are among those from the world of baseball who respect him for what he does.  Coach Knight admits that remaining in Indiana after the administration changed was a mistake, but when you are dedicated in your work, and you have been at a school (Indiana) for as long as he was, it isn't easy to just pick up and leave.  Sometimes adversity can be a blessing in disguise, and his firing at Indiana and eventual hiring at Texas Tech turned out well for him.  When the administration doesn't support you it is time to move on.  Coach Knight's love of his work and dedication to Indiana made the decision a difficult one for him and the administration ended up making it for him.  As I said, I am not a basketball fan, but I came away with a greater understanding and respect for Coach Knight after reading this book.  If you are relying on the opinions of others in judging Coach Knight, you owe it to yourself to hear his version regarding his life and years of coaching.  All of the controversial incidents coloring his career are dealt with from his point of view, and it is only fair to hear him out in regard to these cases.  This book will be a permanent addition to my library.	2002-05-11
US	51749393	R159TGJOBWLQJL	1572434554	187840197	Birdie : Confessions of a Baseball Nomad	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	Birdie Speaks His Mind	Birdie Tebbetts' career in baseball covered nearly his entire life and he expresses his opinions on a number of things, oftentimes in strong terms.  A New England native Birdie says his best years in baseball were with the Boston Red Sox.  After having spent a number of years in Detroit with the Tigers, Birdie says he was booed out of Detroit.  Tebbetts says pitcher Hal Newhouser of the Tigers begged his way into the Hall of Fame.  Newhouser, he says, had his best years when the stars were off fighting WWII.  Could this be sour grapes for his not being in the Hall of Fame himself?  As an executive for the Milwaukee Braves during the 1960's Birdie says it was a job he detested.  Such things as deciding on a hospitalization plan for the groundscrew and who is to get the contract for paving the parking lot at County Stadium were meetings he had to sit in on.  He does provide us with some interesting tidbits in regard to what scouts look for in baseball prospects. I may be wrong, but at times Birdie seems to come across as a braggert.  I also didn't feel it was necessary for him to be so flippant in using God's name in vain so many times.	2002-05-04
US	51749393	R1CA1KRMU0C4OL	1572434511	487861960	Ernie Harwell: My 60 Years in Baseball	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	This Little Light of Mine	Ernie Harwell's broadcasting career has covered an incredible amount of baseball history dating back to the days of Red Barber with the Brooklyn Dodgers, Bobby Thompson's home run on 10/3/'51, the birth of the Baltimore Orioles, and over four decades with the Detroit Tigers.  Harwell came to the Tigers in 1960 as a replacement for Van Patrick who I grew up listening to as a Tigers' announcer.  Author Tom Keegan begins the book with the controversial firing of Harwell and who was to blame for the fiasco.  However, as Ernie says, &quot;It doesn't matter.  All that matters is everyone is forgiven.&quot;  That comment is typical of the Christian Harwell. Ernie has the gift of making anyone he talks to feel as though they are important and his feelings are genuine.  As Ernie says, God has blessed him with good health, and he has done what he can to take care of himself physically to show that age can be just a number.  Ernie Harwell is not only a great ambassador for baseball, but also for everyone in how to treat their fellow human beings.  The book is easy reading and is of value to those interested in baseball history and to those who want to meet a man we all can learn from regarding human relations.	2002-04-21
US	51749393	R2QQ0TGGE2OW99	0061051748	467268065	Disaster! The Great San Francisco Earthquake and Fire of 1906	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Human Nature in the Face of Disaster	I was starting from scratch in my knowledge about the San Francisco earthquake when I began this book.  What I especially enjoyed was the number of human interest stories regrading different people such as future baseball pitcher, but then a ten year old, Del Crespi, (not to be confused with Cardinals' infielder Frank \\"Creepy\\" Crespi), searching in vain for his beloved girl friend Lillian and singer Enrico Caruso looking forward to reading the newspapers' reviews of his singing performance shortly before the quake struck.  Mansions and other temporal possessions of the wealthy were destroyed and many individuals resorted to looting.  Explosives were used to create a gap wide enough where fires would not be able to \\"jump\\" over.  Human nature demonstrates itself both for good and for evil during calamities and this was shown in numerous cases throughout the book.  Ethnic groups such as the Chinese and whites both realized they were in this problem together, and the result was a strengthening of their shared cultures.  I especially enjoyed the number of individual human nature stories provided by the author.	2002-04-11
US	51749393	R1DOP3YK4I5IVX	1582613095	621758775	1951: When Giants Played the Game	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	A Great Year in A Great Decade	Baseball had a fabulous decade in the 1950's and the year 1951 provided a number of historic moments culminating in Bobby Thomson's dramatic \\"shot heard 'round the world.\\"  DiMaggio's last season and Mantle's first.  Connie Mack no longer managing the Athletics, Albert \\"Happy\\" Chandler ousted as Commissioner and replaced by Ford \\"It's a league matter\\" Frick, Bill Veeck sending in midget pinch hitter Eddie Gaedel in St. Louis, Willie Mays arrives in the Polo Grounds under the guidance of \\"Lippy\\" Leo Durocher, the N.L. is 75 years old and the A.L. is 50, and an obscure rookie named Bob Nieman homers in his first two times at bat in the major leagues.  It was a time of Yogi, Stan the Man, the Splendid Splinter, the Cuban Comet, Willie, Mickey, and the Duke, the Boys of Summer, and Topps and Bowman baseball cards.  How lucky I was to be a kid growing up at a time when every boy was a baseball fan, and if he wasn't, he wasn't a boy.  Author Kerry Keene has done an admirable job in reliving the year 1951 when baseball reigned undisputably as America's national game.  Whether you are old enough to remember the year or if you want to learn the way it was, this book will bring you back to a time when baseball was king in America.  It was a great time to be alive.  I only wish the book was available in hardcover.	2002-03-23
US	51749393	R19OXWSJN1LQE4	0060009012	678587523	The Lost Son: A Life in Pursuit of Justice	Books	5	9	15	N	N	A Book of Successive Challenges	Bernard Kerik's book The Lost Son is a book of numerous challenges.  The search for his mother's murderer, warden at the Passaic County Jail, his experiences in Saudi Arabia, the politics involved in promotions in the NYPD, his relationship with his son Joe, the cleaning up of the powder keg that is Riker's Island, and the attacks on the World Trade Center on Sept. 11th all make this a book that moves from one problem to another and the author's ability to meet the challenge and solve whatever comes his way including his most recent as New York City's Police Commissioner.  People didn't believe he would last to be successful at Riker's Island, especially someone who had no college degree.  However, the jail was littered with college degree failures who were unable to maintain control of the place.  The book is over 350 pages, but it will be a quick read due to your heightened interest.	2002-03-18
US	51749393	R307TNIUJ33C3R	0809226030	737666003	Baseball's Forgotten Heroes	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Baseball Has Interesting Characters	Baseball is a game rich in history and stories abound about those who have played the game.  Author Tony Salin has provided us with stories of players who are known to true fans such as Chuck Connors, Billy Jurges, Frenchy Bordagaray, and Larry Jansen.  A number of stories of very obscure players who have interesting tales to tell as well is also in the book.  I especially enjoyed the pronounciation of names in the back of the book.  I had hoped to see the name Chris Van Cuyk listed, but, alas, that one will continue to mystify me.  The book is a quick read and is worth your time.	2002-03-13
US	51749393	R3UO1KJ2UWXPP1	0786406585	826208886	Mel Ott: The Little Giant of Baseball	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Add This Book to Your Baseball Library	Author Fred Stein has provided us with a well written biography about Mel Ott, one of the greatest players in the storied history of the New York Giants baseball team.  Milton Shapiro wrote a biography of Ott in 1959 on a more juvenile level and it was long overdue for another more detailed biography of Master Melvin.  Ott arrived at the Polo Grounds in the mid 1920's for a tryout on the recommendation of Harry Williams, a friend of Giants' manager John McGraw.  McGraw didn't want anyone tampering with Ott's batting stance in the minor leagues and wanted to keep a close watch on the young teen ager.  After gradually breaking Ott into the lineup and with the added confidence, Ott became one of the most popular players ever to play with the Giants.  The book covers the story of Bill Terry's succeeding McGraw as Giants' manager as well as Ott's career as Terry's successor at the helm. It may be true that Ott didn't have the disposition to be a manager.  When he acted up over an umpire's decision, his ranting just didn't appear to be real.  I read with great surprise that Ott didn't attend his Hall of Fame induction at Cooperstown in 1951 because he was managing the Oakland Oaks in the minor leagues.  I remember very well when Ott broadcasted Detroit Tigers' baseball games with Van Patrick from 1956 through 1958 and enjoyed him very much.  His death in November of 1958 was a great loss to all of baseball and to those who followed the Tigers on the radio.  Many athletes may be great on the field, but are a disappointment off the field.  Ott didn't disappoint those who looked up to him.  The book is easy to read and should be enjoyable for anyone from teen agers to adults.  Thanks, Fred Stein for a great effort.  I only wish the book was available in hard cover.	2002-03-11
US	51749393	R1EQFCFHQZIYZS	0813017866	175533191	Splendor on the Diamond: Interviews with 35 Stars of Baseball's Past	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	Baseball Stars of the 1950's and 1960's	I bought this book because it is about the heroes of my youth.  I found the book to be an easy read with a quick rehash of their careers.  I didn't find any real depth to any of the summaries of the players interviewed.  I believe the book to be more suitable for a pre-teen or teen-aged reader who would be interested in an introduction to the players who made up baseball's golden age.	2002-03-10
US	51749393	R33BL388KTKDMA	1557504822	193265629	Death on the Hellships: Prisoners at Sea in the Pacific War	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Man's Inhumanity to Man	Author Michno covers a subject that has been neglected in World War II history, namely prisoners of war held on Japanese ships on the Pacific Ocean.  The book is over 300 pages of the depressing conditions that POW's faced at the hands of the Japanese on their hellships.  Prisoners who were deprived of water, food, and sanitary conditions and subjected to executions by their captors make for a very hellish read.  It appears that those who survived were those who developed an intense hatred for their captors.  Those who felt sorry for themselves were not among the survivors. This is a subject that has apparently been neglected in World War II history and the author says the Japanese continue to deny or cover up their atrocities.  I found it difficult to continue reading such horrific treatment of human beings for over 300 pages, but, nevertheless, this is a story that has been needed to be told.	2002-03-10
US	51749393	RCXN3NQ91O50O	156639466X	20349775	The Whiz Kids And the 1950 Pennant (Baseball In America)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This Book Fills A Historical Void	Authors Paul Rogers and former Whiz Kid pitcher Robin Roberts have done a great job in bringing a memorable team back to life. Baseball books on teams usually involve New York teams and it is refreshing to read a book about a team that will always be remembered, not just by Phillies' fans, but by baseball fans across the country.  Many of the names I came across in this book were merely pictures on baseball cards I started buying in the early '50's and this book provided me with some insight into their accomplishments on the ball diamond.  There is a story behind each of those players' names I have in my mind, and the authors brought them to life in this book.  If there was one drawback, if I may call it that, I found an excessive amount of play-by-play among the pages.  However, I can live with that.  The names of Robin Roberts, Curt Simmons, and Richie Ashburn are household baseball names, but I was also happy to read about lesser lights like Bubba Church, Mike Goliat, and Stan Lopata who were only pictures on baseball cards to me.  Phillies' fan or not, if you like baseball history, you will enjoy this book.	2002-03-08
US	51749393	R326ETHV32IX3F	1566397960	555799862	Land of the Giants: New York's Polo Grounds	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	The Historic Horseshoe on the Harlem	One ballpark that has fascinated me more than any other has been the Polo Grounds, home of the New York Giants.  This is due to my interest in reading books about John McGraw and Christy Mathewson.  My only two visits to the site came long after the stadium had been demolished.  Author Stew Thornley provides the reader with a concise history of all four arenas called the Polo Grounds.  Polo Grounds I was located at 110th Street and 5th Avenue and was the only location that polo was acutally played.  Polo Grounds II was located on the site of Manhattan Field where the parking lot for the future arenas was to be located.  Polo Grounds III had a short life as fire destroyed the park and the team moved into Hilltop Park after accepting an invitation from the Highlanders (Yankees) to play there while Polo Grounds IV was being rebuilt on the same location.  I enjoyed the pictures that were in the book which included a couple views I hadn't seen before and also the history of the plaques in center field.  I've often wondered what happened to the Eddie Grant memorial and I've found I'm not alone in this respect.  Also of interest to me was the information provided on the Putnam Bridge near center field outside the park and the Macombs Dan Bridge that crosses the Harlem River.  Of additional interest is the information provided on groundskeeper Matty Schwab and his family that lived in an apartment in the left field area and his son who had friends who would sleep over with him on the outfield grass.  The area around Coogan's Bluff has history dating back to the days of George Washington and the Revolutionary War and two of baseball's most memorable moments in the 1950's took place there, Thompson's homer off Branca in '51 and Mays's catch off Wertz in '54.  I remember writing to Tom Meany who worked for the New York Mets in the 1960's, asking him if he could provide me with a piece of concrete from the stadium when it was to be demolished.  He sent back a picture with a note saying, &quot;Sending you a piece of concrete would necessitate my using a chisel and I've never been a chiseler in all my life.&quot;  The history of the Giants and Mets provided in this book can be found in any number of other baseball books, but some of the things I mentioned above I was not familiar with.  Thanks, Stew Thornley, for an interesting book.e saying, &quot;Sending you a piece of concrete would necessitate my using a chisel and I've never been a chiseler in all my life.&quot;  The history of the Giants and Mets provided in this book can be found in any number of other baseball books, but some of the things I mentioned above I was not familiar with.  Thanks, Stew Thornley, for an interesting book.	2002-03-03
US	51749393	RL27UREH43F3B	0786407867	488121381	Rube Waddell: The Zany, Brilliant Life of a Strikeout Artist	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	A Biography Long Overdue	Thanks to author Alan Levy we at long last have a biography about Rube Waddell, a great pitcher at the beginning of the 20th century.  Contemporaries of Waddell such as Cy Young, Christy Mathewson,Grover Alexander, and Walter Johnson have at least one biography written about them and now Rube joins them in this respect.  Author Levy states that Waddell had four loves in life which were pitching, fishing, fighting fires, and liquor not neccessarily in that order.  Students of baseball history remember Waddell as a baseball zany for his antics both on and off the field, but what is often overlooked is that he was a very caring person who would give of himself to others.  It was in this capacity of standing hour on end in cold water fighting back floodwaters by piling sandbags that led to pneumonia and eventually tuberculosis.  Baseball was simply a game to Waddell whether he was throwing his fastball past major league hitters or playing with a bunch of ten year olds.  Both Rube Waddell and Babe Ruth were alike in that they both were childlike in the body of an adult.  Author Levy gives an excellent account of the scuffle which Waddell got into over a teammate's straw hat that led to him injuring his arm and prevented him from going up against Christy Mathewson in the 1905 World Series in which Matty pitched three shutouts.  It would have been interesting to see what the matchups of Waddell and Mathewson would have provided us.  It was traditional for straw hats to be destroyed after Labor Day and Rube wanted to destroy the teammate's hat.  I don't see that there was any dark deeds involved between Waddell and gamblers who didn't want Waddell to pitch in the Series.  Athletics manager Connie Mack gave Waddell some free reign when the two were together while Waddell gave Pirates manager Fred Clarke fits with his erratic behavior.  It's true that Rube Waddell had destructive habits, but I also come away feeling that Rube Waddell had a caring side for other people that is too often overlooked.too often overlooked.	2002-03-01
US	51749393	R2OXCQ8AL44FX8	1571671110	716291845	Jack Buck: That's a Winner	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Jack Buck--Hall of Famer	If you want to read about the St. Louis Cardinals any book written by either Jack Buck or Bob Broeg is sure to provide you with solid reporting.  Buck has been announcing for the Cardinals since the mid-1950's and spent many of those years with another hall-of-famer named Harry Caray.  Jack provides the reader with insights into his army career prior to entering baseball, his many years as an announcer for KMOX radio in St. Louis, and those glorious years with the Cardinals of the 1960's and 1980's.  He also provides us with his opinions on the changes that have taken place in both baseball and the world from what it used to be.  You don't have to be a Cardinals' fan to enjoy this book.  If you enjoy baseball history, reading a book written by the much-respected Jack Buck is an enviable treat.	2002-02-23
US	51749393	R2NHPG9YNRLHXZ	0375401644	793131133	Somewhere for Me: A Biography of Richard Rodgers	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A Review on A Musical Giant from A Neophyte	My knowledge of Richard Rodgers was limited to the fact that he wrote the music and Lorenz Hart wrote the words to a favorite song of mine entitled Manhattan.  I wanted to learn more about the partnership of Rodgers and Hart and found them to be an odd couple of sorts.  Hart was a genius in writing lyrics, but was a difficult man to work with due to his problem with alcohol.  Rodgers finally had to find a new partner when Hart's health failed him and he could no longer be depended upon.  Rodgers then hooked up with Oscar Hammerstein and the two of them gave the world Oklahoma, South Pacific, The King and I, The Sound of Music, and other treasured musicals.  Rodgers also had an alcohol problem at this time when drinking alcohol and smoking cigarettes was common in society.  I suppose it still is.  Rodgers and his lifelong wife, Dorothy, did not have a very happy marriage although they did their best to keep their marital problems hidden from the public.  One of their children, a daughter Mary, was often ridiculed by her father for being what he considered to be fat.  Retirement was not something Richard Rodgers would consider for himself.  He always wanted to write the next musical.  Irving Berlin lived in fear that he would never be able to write another hit song.  Rodgers lived in fear of not be able to come up with another musical.  Both showed their insecurities in their line of work.  I feel the author does an excellent job in researching her subject.  I rate the book four stars, not because I feel the book is lacking in any respect, but because it is a subject I had no knowledge of and my interest was held to about a four star level.	2002-02-22
US	51749393	R108SID7K9FSNB	0871138344	570501457	The Bureau and the Mole: The Unmasking of Robert Philip Hanssen, the Most Dangerous Double Agent in FBI History	Books	3	3	4	N	N	I've Read Enough About Robert Hanssen	Having first read The Spy Who Stayed Out in the Cold by Adrian  Havill I guess I've had my fill of Robert Hanssen.  At times The Bureau and the Mole appears to be a dual biography of Robert Hanssen and F.B.I. Director, Louis Freeh.  The reasons for Hanssen's spying appear to be a contempt for the F.B.I. after the death of J. Edgar Hoover and Hanssen's feelings of his abilities not being appreciated by the organization.  Benedict Arnold's reason for treason was his belief that his efforts on behalf of the colonial army were not appreciated, also.  Both Arnold and Hanssen were alike in this respect.  Hanssen's complex personality is delved into, and although he received money for the classified information he provided, he appeared to enjoy the excitement his spying provided as opposed to his, in his mind, mundane work at the F.B.I.  The Russians apparently understood Hanssen's need to have his ego stroked and did so in their correspondence with him.  According to court documents and interviews Appendix I lists the various \\"contributions\\" Hanssen made towards his Russian colleagues.  The list is quite impressive.  This is a book of the downfall of two men:  Louis Freeh the Director of the F.B.I. and F.B.I. agent Robert Hanssen.	2002-01-24
US	51749393	R3NTYMGYMOW3RR	0268008981	447669668	Don McNeill and His Breakfast Club	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Man I've Wanted to Know More About	Although I am old enough to have been able to remember Don McNeill's Breakfast Club I have only heard of him, and wanted to learn more about this popular radio show.  Author John Doolittle has done an excellent job in bringing out the personality of Don McNeill.  Don was a devoted family man who, despite an extroverted personality when interviewing people, was more of an introvert away from the show.  Don was devoted to the midwest and chose to keep his show in Chicago from various downtown locations.  I would say the primary reason for the success of the show was his sincere interest in people in addition to his willingness to pay the price in preparation time.  Those who filled in for him found out there is more involved than chatting with members of the studio audience.  The silent prayer and the march around the breakfast table were interesting staples of this show that I wasn't aware of.  Don McNeill was a sincere man both on the show and in his private life.  The CD that came with the book I bought provides interesting snippets on some of his shows and was especially interesting to listen to after having read the book.  Don McNeill was a giant of radio who had a lot to contribute to other people and did.	2002-01-18
US	51749393	RPTZW91KAOPIF	1929631081	556171012	The Man Behind the Rosenbergs	Books	4	27	33	N	Y	A Kindly Portrait of Julius and Ethel	There is much more to this book than the story of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, but it is for the Russian viewpoint of this story that I bought the book.  Having read the recently published book The Brother I wanted to read this book to compare the two.  Alexander Feklisov paints a kindly picture of Julius Rosenberg as being an individual who sympathized with the plight of the Jews in Germany during World War II.  Julius felt the Russians bore the brunt of the fighting against Nazi Germany and he wanted to do whatever he could to help them.  Since Russia was an ally of America during World War II he wanted to do what he could to be of assistance since he wasn't in the front lines fighting the Nazis.  Julius comes across as a rather kindly and meek individual and a genuine friendship between him and Feklisov developed.  Rosenberg's biggest contribution to Russian intelligence was in providing them with the proximity fuse in which an explosive shattered when it neared an airplane causing damage instead of having to score a direct hit on the plane.  Julius's wife Ethel was aware and sympathetic of her husband's activities, but was otherwise not involved.  Whether she actually did any typing of her brother's, David Greenglass', notes is still questionable.  It may very well have been David's wife, Ruth.  David worked at Los Alamos in a machine shop and provided what information he could on America's efforts to develop an atomic bomb, but his childish sketches of a lens was of no value according to Feklisov.  David Greenglass agreed to turn against his sister and brother-in-law in exchange for immunity for his wife Ruth and a prison sentence for himself.  The Rosenbergs could have fled to Russia when things got &quot;hot&quot;, but they wanted to remain close to Ruth because she was in a hospital recovering from burns suffered in an accident.  From reading this book and The Brother I conclude that the Rosenbergs' hatred was against Nazism and their treatment of the Jews and not against America.  As he saw it, Julius was helping an American ally (Russia) to fight an American enemy (Germany).  The book is also interesting in showing the precautions spies take in their meetings.  At a time when Communism was a hot topic in the early 1950's it is questionable whether the Rosenbergs received the fairness they deserved.  The book covers much more including Feklisov's role along with John Scali during the Cuban Missile Crisis, but I'll limit my review to the case of the Rosenbergs since that is the part of the book I was most interested in.d not against America.  As he saw it, Julius was helping an American ally (Russia) to fight an American enemy (Germany).  The book is also interesting in showing the precautions spies take in their meetings.  At a time when Communism was a hot topic in the early 1950's it is questionable whether the Rosenbergs received the fairness they deserved.  The book covers much more including Feklisov's role along with John Scali during the Cuban Missile Crisis, but I'll limit my review to the case of the Rosenbergs since that is the part of the book I was most interested in.	2002-01-08
US	51749393	R2HJPJIXZ8LKR7	0375500138	639072887	The Brother: The Untold Story of Atomic Spy David Greenglass and How He Sent His Sister, Ethel Rosenberg, to the Electric Chair	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Reserve A Space for This Book in Your Library	Although I was only nine years old when the Rosenberg's were executed on June 19, 1953, I do have vague recollections of their execution. The book is over 500 pages long but worth its length. Without going into lengthy details, as I understand the story, in 1945 Julius Rosenberg asked his sister-in-law, Ruth Greenglass, to suggest to her husband David, who was working on the Manhattan Project at Los Alamos, New Mexico, to provide details about the makings of the atomic bomb to be passed on to the Soviets. This David agreed to do since Russia had been an American ally during World War II. There appears to be some doubt as to what Ethel Rosenberg's role in this scheme was. Ethel apparently knew what her husband Julius was up to and was even agreeable to it. When her brother David was arrested, he agreed to cooperate with the government providing his wife would not be implicated. Instead David claimed that Ethel did the typing of his (David's) notes from Los Alamos. When author Sam Roberts interviewed David for the book David wavers as to who actually did the typing of his notes. He now states that it most likely was his wife Ruth. This apparently is where he is said to have sent his sister to the electric chair to save his wife Ruth. Would David have done this had he known a death sentence was facing his sister? From his interview with author Roberts I would have to say yes he would have although even though they were guilty they didn't deserve to die. One of the Rosenberg's two sons, Michael, is quoted as saying, &quot;My mother went to the death house and Aunt Ruth goes home to make dinner.&quot; If you enjoy American history this is a book that you will want to make sure you have in your library. This is riveting American history.	2002-01-01
US	51749393	RWQ8IGCPXC27L	0743203399	269804839	The Wild Blue: The Men and Boys Who Flew the B-24s Over Germany 1944-45	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Stephen Ambrose Gives Us More American History	You don't have to be a World War II buff to enjoy this book.  I'm sure it will be very difficult for me to add anything new to what other reviewers have already said regarding this book. I found it to be a worth while read even for those like me who have no background knowledge regarding this aspect of World War II.  Author Stephen Ambrose has chosen to use George McGovern's experiences in flying the B-24 airplane in Europe.  Ambrose does an excellent job in humanizing the crew of this airplane who faced death every time they embarked on one of their 35 missions. No attempt is made to single out any special contribution these men made to save western civilization from Nazi Germany.  Those who flew B-17's and those involved in other branches of the serivces are also recognized.  In short, a team effort of all the services was necessary to win the war.  Others certainly contributed to the war effort, but author Ambrose has chosen to focus on George McGovern and the men who flew the B-24 airplanes.  This is a book well worth your time.	2001-12-28
US	51749393	R1Y9403YNW1D37	0684859955	815897325	Five Points: The Nineteenth-Century New York City Neighborhood That Invented Tap Dance, Stole Elections and Became the World's Most Notorious Slum	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Five Points is Worth Five Stars	I had heard about the Five Points neighborhood of New York City a number of years ago, but had little familiarity with it other than that it was a slum area.  The name originated where the intersection of five streets took place.  This location eastward from Baxter Street, across Mulberry, Mott, Pell, and The Bowery.  Roughly the area of the Lower East Side of Manhattan.  Author Anbinder provides us with a lengthy (441 pages) account of the history of the neighborhood mainly during the 19th century in which immigration into the United States led to the conditions connected with living in tenements.  Overcrowding led to disease due to poor sanitation practices.  People living in tenements took in additional boarders to help pay for the rent required by owners of the buildings.  Parents often used their children to raise money on the streets during the day to be used by the parents to support their alcohol habit, and if the required amount of money was not raised the child faced a beating when he arrived home.  A part I especially enjoyed was the story of Jacob Riis and his eventual success in winning the love of his life and his publication of his book &quot;How the Other Half Lives&quot; which brought about awareness of the plight of people living in such squalid conditions.  Irving Berlin and Jimmy Durante began musical careers in this area of Manhattan, while others such as Johnny Torrio rose to infamy as gangsters.  I did find the part about the politics of the Five Points area to be tedious, but that is not the fault of the book, but rather my lack of interest.  Immigrants coming to this country from Ireland or any other country found the living hard, but hard as it may be to believe, an improvement over living conditions in Europe where many people died from the potato famine.  Yes, the book is a rather long read, but one that gives a good description of living conditions that immigrants had to put up with when arriving into this country.	2001-12-25
US	51749393	R14YPFO0TBV29P	0471391026	371043702	Diamond Jim Brady: Prince of the Gilded Age	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Social History	Someone once wrote that there is more to history than wars, treaties, and presidents.  This story of Diamond Jim Brady and his platonic friend Lillian Russell makes for great reading of the gilded Eighties, Gay Nineties, and Naughty Naughts.  The flamboyant Brady made his money selling railroad equipment and didn't hesitate to spend it on his passion for diamonds, food, or lavishing gifts upon others.  It's true that Jim enjoyed advertising himself, but he did enjoy giving gifts to others.  When he moved to his West 86th street home on Manhattan he refurnished it with entirely new furniture along with a complete new wardrobe.  He introduced New York to the automobile which ran on an electric battery which had a cruising range of thirty-six miles.  Since it would be bad for his image if it broke down, he had a friend test drive it for five successive days in the early morning hours.  Most people eat to live, but Diamond Jim truly was one who lived to eat.  His gustatorial tales fill the book.  During the removal of a kidney stone it was found that his stomach was six times larger than normal.  I will share a very funny line from the book regarding Jim's wearing of diamonds.  It was a rule of his that &quot;diamonds larger than doorknobs should be worn only in the evening.&quot;  I did find that Diamond Jim had feelings of insecurity regarding his appearance when he was turned down in marriage from a woman named Edna.  Jim lamented, &quot;I asked her plenty of times to marry me and she always refused. ...There ain't a woman in the world who'd marry a fat, ugly guy like me.&quot;  He also offered one million dollars to Lillian Russell to marry him, but she turned him down saying, &quot;Why ruin a beautiful friendship?&quot; If you enjoy American social history you have a treat waiting for you in reading this book.	2001-12-12
US	51749393	R2ICAZWNW7U1O3	0312287828	234720266	The Spy Who Stayed Out in the Cold: The Secret Life of FBI Double Agent Robert Hanssen	Books	5	9	13	N	N	This Book Will Hold Your Attention	Author Adrian Havill, never knew Robert Hanssen personally though they lived  only a few miles apart for several years.  His public lifestyle didn't change to attract suspicion.  Much of the money he received for spying went to pay for a Catholic education for his children to a school forty miles from home when some of the best public schools in the country were available only a short distance from his home.  His only extravagance was spending lavishly on a platonic female friend before the relationship turned sour.  This went on while his wife Bonnie struggled with daily homemaking chores in addition to her commitment that involved her six children.  While stationed in Scarsdale, New York, Mr. Hanssen once passed off information he knew to be of no value to the Russians for money which his wife later became aware of.  Other than that, she had no idea of the double life he was leading.  He was not one to show affection to others even in his family and required the children riding in his car not to speak while approved Russian symphonies were played and listened to instead.  Neighbors found Hanssen to be cold and distant, not exchanging waves or verbal greetings when situations warranted.  His wife is to receive 55% of his pension, and many in the FBI complained about that since she knew of the Scarsdale incident in 1979.  It is hard to imagine the shock Mr. Hanssen's mother, wife, children, and agent brother-in-law felt when he was arrested.  The stress of wondering when and if he would be caught must also have been extremely difficult to deal with.  The letters Hanssen and his Russian correspondents sent back and forth were confusing to me at times, but this is a book that will hold your interest and I would highly recommend it to you.	2001-12-03
US	51749393	R2BYGSP5DRD1VH	0195123603	723593983	The Diamond in the Bronx: Yankee Stadium and the Politics of New York	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	The Politics Between A City and Baseball	This book will provide you with the history of the Yankees from the time they moved the Baltimore franchise to New York at the turn of the century to the present time.  The various owners of the team from the time of Bill Devery and Frank Farrell with the original Highlanders is covered followed by the team's sale to Colonels Ruppert and Huston who were around for the opening of Yankee Stadium in 1923.  Next came Del Webb, Dan Topping and Larry McPhail in the 1940's, the sale to CBS in the 1960's, and finally to George Steinbrenner and his cohorts in 1973.  If you are looking for a book covering the team on the field history, this is not the book for you.  This book will provide you with information covering the renovation of Yankee Stadium following the 1973 season and the role the various mayors played in Yankee Stadium.  Ed Koch had no interest in baseball, John Lindsey came to Mike Burke who ran the team during the CBS years and offered to help the Yankees to the extent the city assisted the Mets.<br />  An interesting story is told regarding Dodger owner Walter O'Malley in his desire for a new stadium in Brooklyn.  O'Malley, according to the author went to Robert Moses who was Chairman of the Mayor's Slum Clearance Committee to use his authority to condemn the property at Atlantic and Flatbush Avenues so he could purchase the land as a whole and not have to have O'Malley buy the property from each individual land owner which would drive up the price.  Moses refused to do this and offered instead a chance for O'Malley to move the Dodgers to a public stadium in Queens.  Instead O'Malley chose an opportunity to move to Los Angeles.  There is a lot of politics in this book and the author has done a lot of work in this regard.  I gave the book four stars instead of five because the discussion of politics and baseball got somewhat heavy at times.	2001-11-28
US	51749393	RSPDJ6QY5EQRL	0967522102	2506852	Victory Faust:  The Rube Who Saved McGraw's Giants	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Certainly A Unique Subject For A Book	Rightfully so, baseball produces more great books than any other sport. Author Gabriel Schechter has provided us with a truly unique subject in Charley Faust, a Kansas farmer who visited a fortune teller who told him if he would join the New York Giants they would win the pennant.  Ballplayers were terribly superstitious and manager John McGraw took him along with the team as a good luck charm during the 1911 season.  These were the Giants of Mathewson, Marquard, Merkle, Meyers, and Snodgrass among others.  I was aware of the basic details of the Charley Faust story, but it was very interesting to read in greater detail about this story in baseball history.  The players humored Charley in regard to his pitching abilities, but Charley regarded himself as a legitimate pitcher.  Charley did get to pitch near the end of the 1911 season which put him into the baseball record book with everyone else whoever played the game.  Faust as a good luck charm, however, didn't last into the World Series against the Philadelphia Athletics of Connie Mack and his $100,000 infield which defeated the Giants.  During 1912 Charley Faust became more of a pest than a good luck charm and he eventually drifted off to the state of Washington where he died in 1915 from tuberculosis.  Anything about John McGraw's Giants is interesting reading, but to have a book about the Charley Faust story hits a subject that has been ignored until now.  The author did a great deal of research on his subject and includes various colorful articles on great writers of the time such as Damom Runyon, Sid Mercer, and others.  A casual fan with an interest in baseball history will enjoy it.	2001-11-26
US	51749393	R2DI9EK77OYPE1	0786410671	807516900	Hal Chase: The Defiant Life and Turbulent Times of Baseball's Biggest Crook	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Was He Really That Good?	Sportswriter Fred Lieb wrote that Hal Chase had &quot;a corkscrew brain.&quot;  Author Martin Kohout provides us with a very detailed account of the life of Hal Chase, &quot;baseball's biggest crook.&quot;  Whatever you want to know about Mr. Chase can be found in this book and some readers may feel they are being told more than they care to know.  Chase is often given credit as being the greatest defensive first-baseman.  His strength appears to have been on fielding sacrifice bunts and forcing the lead runner either at second or third base.  This account provides the reader with a number of errors, purposely or not, Chase committed during games. In addition, he often was out of the lineup for one ailment or another.  Hal bounced around a number of major league teams after wearing out his welcome with the one he was currently on.  Each time he pledged to turn over a new leaf.  Crooked ball playing took place during the turn of the century, and such times were ripe for a player with Chase's lack of morals.  His personal life was a mess as well as his reputation on the field of play.  I enjoy reading about players from the turn of the 20th century and was happy to be able to read about teams such as the New York Highlanders, the original Yankees, and players such as Hal Chase, even though he was a shady character.  This book is definitely worth your time if you are interested in baseball history.  If you are a casual fan, find something that is lighter reading.	2001-11-19
US	51749393	RLZ9GU3CDCHE6	1582611823	727997821	Marketing Your Dreams: Business and Life Lessons from Bill Veeck, Baseball's Promotional Genius	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Book on Self Improvement--An Absolute Gem	The author, Pat Williams, an administrator with the Orlando Magic of the NBA, has chosen former baseball owner Bill Veeck as his example in what you can do to improve yourself.  Veeck was a self-educated man who was a voracious reader of books and used promotions to sell his product, in his case tickets to his team's baseball games.  Important tips are given for people to follow in expressing interest in another person and what they have to say along with steps to follow in being an effective public speaker. Veeck was a person who had time for everyone he came in contact with and enjoyed his life to the fullest.  He was a very down-to-earth individual who enjoyed tweaking baseball's establishment of stuffed shirts.  The book is filled with great quotations and stories of those who were befriended by Veeck during his ownership of major league teams in Cleveland, St. Louis, and Chicago.  His training ground was with the Milwaukee Brewers, then a minor league team of which he was the owner.  I have read and enjoyed all the Veeck books:  Veeck As In Wreck, The Hustler's Handbook, Thirty Tons A Day, and Bill Veeck:  A Baseball Legend in addition to this latest effort by Pat Williams.  We continue to influence people after we die through those whose lives we touched when we were alive.  Even though Bill Veeck is no longer with us, he can help you improve yourself by reading this book.  It will be entertaining as well.	2001-11-10
US	51749393	R15SKMELTFGJMG	1930844182	818602888	Now Pitching for the Yankees: Spinning the News for Mickey, Billy, and George	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Not Just Another Book on the Yankees	When I bought this book I thought I was in for just a number of inside stories on the Yankees. I was pleasantly surprised to learn about the ups and downs of the career of Marty Appel. True, much of the book covers his years with the Yankees as their PR director during the 1970's. He was there for the years when the Yankees played in Shea Stadium in 1974 and 1975 and during the time big trades were made involving Bobby Bonds, Mickey Rivers, and Willie Randolph in addition to the signing of Catfish Hunter. He enjoyed working with George Steinbrenner but did have one particular low moment with George following the publication of a Yankee yearbook which contained photos of players with hair longer than what suited the Boss. Marty took a chance one day to ask clubhouse attendant Pete Sheehy to tell him all about the Babe and Pete provided a revealing secret in four words. After leaving the Yankees with Joe Garagiola Jr. Marty worked at a number of baseball related jobs, some of which proved to be more rewarding than others. One of those jobs was with Topps Chewing Gum, and I believe I found a mistake on pages 294-295 where Marty states that Topps began issuing trading cards in 1950 with All-American football players before they did baseball cards. The All-American football cards he refers to were issued in 1955.  Topps first issue of baseball cards came in 1951 with the Topps Red Backs and Topps Blue Backs which were cards designed to be used as a baseball game. The low point was his move to Atlanta to work with the Olympic games that were going to be held there. This move proved to be a mistake, but it was a risk that he took. Interesting advice is given to young readers to never take anything for granted, be a good listener, read everything you can, and respect those you deal with. Marty Appel hit a grand slam home run with this book just as he did with an earlier effort on Michael Kelly entitled Slide, Kelly, Slide and in working with Bowie Kuhn on his book entitled Hardball. His latest effort, Now Pitching for the Yankees,is another first rate job.Hardball. His latest effort, Now Pitching for the Yankees,is another first rate job.	2001-11-06
US	51749393	R1OCRF4XUGSG20	068486715X	99054524	The Fire of His Genius: Robert Fulton and the American Dream	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Robert Fulton:  A Neglected Subject	Author Kirkpatrick Sale has provided us with a well researched book about a historical figure that has been neglected and I learned some interesting facts about Robert Fulton I wasn't aware of.  His steamboat was technically called the North River Steamboat.  The North River was another name for the Hudson River.  Clermont, the name we associate with the steamboat, was a large tract of privately owned land about 90 miles up the Hudson River from New York City.  Fulton was also interested in designing a submarine with torpedoes to be used in time of war in addition to underwater cannons and floating mines.  He also had a rather curious relationship with a couple named Joel and Ruth Barlow which I will let the reader of the book speculate on. Fulton was plagued by weak lungs due to tuberculois and this ultimately led to his death in 1815.  I learned a number of interesting tidbits about Robert Fulton I wasn't aware of, but I have to confess there were parts I read through rather quickly.	2001-10-30
US	51749393	R1HLEJCJ43DFG6	1566633664	52275582	Heartbreakers: Baseball's Most Agonizing Defeats	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	An Enjoyable Book	Author John Kuenster has put together an admirable collection of heartbreaking defeats suffered by baseball teams over the past half century.  The only one I was too young to remember is the Giants/Dodgers playoff in 1951.  The author did a lot of research in each chapter and I found only one mistake.  On page 169 is a picture of Jody Davis and Jay Johnstone of the Cubs in which the author refers to Jay Johnstone as \\"Dave\\".  The author includes a lot of statistics and play-by-play game situations which may be necessary, but I didn't especially care for.  I looked for more insights such as in the first chapter where Maglie told Branca he should have thrown a curve ball to Thomson instead of a fastall.  Yogi Berra was at the game but left thinking the Dodgers had it wrapped up which may have led to his quote, \\"It ain't over till it's over.\\"  It also was interesting to know why Stengel started Art Ditmar in game one of the 1960 Series instead of Whitey Ford and later admitting the mistake.  The box score of each game is provided at the end of each chapter.  The cover of Lavagetto and Branca on the steps of the Polo Grounds clubhouse could not be more appropriate for this book.	2001-10-26
US	51749393	ROZX5TMKOHHMS	0374265011	811044930	Big Chief Elizabeth: The Adventures and Fate of the First English Colonists in America	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very Readable and Interesting History	Captain John Smith, Pocahontas, John Rolfe, Powhatan, and Sir Walter Ralegh are all characters we learned about during our school days.  Author Milton has done a great job in bringing these characters to life in a way our school history books did not.  An interesting tidbit is that Ralegh's name was spelled a number of different ways during his day, but never the way we see it spelled as \\"Raleigh\\".  A very interesting reason is given for the lost colony at Roanoke as given by Captain John Smith.  However, it is my understanding, not mentioned in the book, that Smith was one to stray from the truth and I do have some doubts about accepting his version.  Also, was he actually saved from death by Pocahontas?  Perhaps!  Author Milton also states the reason for the stop in hostilities between Indians and settlers was the marriage between Pocohontas and John Rolfe.  The growing of tobacco as a cash crop was the saving grace of Jamestown.  The relationship between Queen Elizabeth and her favorite, Sir Walter Ralegh, is dealt with in interesting detail and is Ralegh's relationship King James VI of Scotland who had no use for Ralegh.  This book is history at its best.	2001-09-23
US	51749393	R38ECB8BG97L4T	0195127161	191417222	Brown v. Board of Education: A Civil Rights Milestone and Its Troubled Legacy (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Well Researched Book	Having grown up during the 1950's I wanted to familiarize myself in regard to civil rights, in particular as it applied to the historic 1954 Supreme Court ruling &quot;Brown vs. the Board of Education.&quot; I found that President Eisenhower was not in favor of getting involved in civil rights for African Americans. He is quoted as saying that appointing Earl Warren as Chief Justice to the Supreme Court was the &quot;biggest damn fool mistake I ever made.&quot; Roy Wilkins of the NAACP is quoted as saying if Eisenhower fought World War II as he did for civil rights, &quot;We'd all be speaking German today.&quot; I was disappointed in Eisenhower's approach to civil rights for African Americans. Ten years after the 1954 Brown ruling, things hadn't changed regarding civil rights. The heroes in the book are those workers who fought in the trenches for civil rights, particularly during the 1960's. Most of them are not remembered, but their contributions remain, nonetheless. President Johnson's greatest legacy remains getting the government behind racial justice. The 1954 Brown ruling hasn't had the effect it may have desired regarding schools, but by the 20th anniversary of Brown, America had been brought kicking and screaming forward for civil rights for African Americans. The book lists a number of cases and studies with their results and I have concluded we don't really know whether integration has improved test scores in schools. Having been a teacher myself for 32 years I do know that children are not bigoted as were some children and adults I knew as a kid. Kids often reflect their parents behavior. This is a book that is definitely worthy of your time.  I did find one error in the book.  The author said Julius and Ethyl Rosenberg were executed in July of 1953 when actually it was on June 19, 1953.	2001-09-03
US	51749393	R372NX0SS9W3CH	0670910252	502515168	Andrew Jackson and His Indian Wars	Books	5	7	11	N	N	The Man on the Twenty Dollar Bill	I believe the author has done a fair job in evaluating the situation America was faced with regarding the Indians that inhabited the country prior to the arrival of the Europeans. Andrew Jackson was apparently motivated by the desire to protect America's interests from foreign invaders along the gulf coast and a desire to preserve the Indians' culture. The only way to accomplish these goals, Jackson believed was to implement the policy of Indian removal west of the Mississippi River. Jackson portrayed himself to the Indians as a friend when negotiating a treaty to get the Indian tribes to relinguish their lands. The Indians, however, had no choice in the matter. At times I couldn't help but be reminded of Adolf Hitler in Nazi Germany when he stood victorious over another conquered nation. That may seem like a brutal comparison, but the story of the Indians losing their land in America was nothing less than brutal. Jackson made his share of enemies, namely Henry Clay, for his arbitrary use of power. An example was his execution of two British agents rather than consult his superiors. Author Remini refers to Indian scholar Francis Paul Prucha in stating there were four options available to America in dealing with the Indians. 1. Genocide 2. Integrate the two societies 3. Let the Indians live where they were and enforce existing treaties 4. Removal Yes, the country was faced with a difficult situation and it would have been nice if # 2 or # 3 could have been implemented, but the Indians wanted no part of American culture, and no army was large enough to keep people from invading Indian country. Jackson justified removal to keep foreign invaders from the gulf coast and as being the only way the Indians could keep their culture. Whether keeping their culture was just an excuse for removal west of the Mississippi into other Indian territory, only Jackson really knows. In any case I certainly think we could have found someone else to put on a twenty dollar bill than Andrew Jackson, &quot;Sharpknife.&quot;Jackson, &quot;Sharpknife.&quot;	2001-09-01
US	51749393	R2KFT1B6C7T8AS	0684873745	77248244	Unguarded: My Forty Years Surviving in the NBA	Books	5	5	5	N	N	All Young Basketball Fans Should Read This Book	I am not a fan of the NBA.  I am not even a basketball fan.  I bought and read this book because Lenny Wilkens was a member of the St. Louis Hawks of the 1960's when I closely followed the Hawks of Bob Pettit, Cliff Hagan, &quot;The Big Z&quot; Zelmo Beaty, John &quot;Rabbit&quot; Barnhill, Chico Vaughn, and others.  I was interested in reading what Wilkens would have to say about the Hawks.  According to Wilkens, coaching in the NBA in the '60's consisted of scrimmaging and shooting free throws.  Rather than teaching, coaches screamed at players.  Wilkens says that one of his Hawks' coaches, Richie Guerin, played favorites namely Bill Bridges and Gene Tormohlen.  Wilkens credits his faith in God for directing his life and for providing him with the many blessings that have come his way.  Having graduated from Providence with a degree in economics, he had no idea he would be playing in the NBA.  He takes the reader through the discrimination he encountered in St. Louis during the '60's and how this was all new to him having been raised in Brooklyn, New York.  Wilkens provides us insight of his experiences of playing with St. Louis followed by the trade to Seattle and his two coaching stints there along with coaching at Cleveland, Portland, Atlanta, and now Toronto.  Along the way he managed to pass Celtic legend Red Auerbach's career victory total.  Both Wilkens and former UCLA Bruins' coach, John Wooden are the only two members elected to the Basketball Hall of Fame as both players and coaches.  I rate this book five stars, not because it is a keeper for me.  I plan on sending this up to our local high school library so people who are interested in basketball can benefit from this book.  In addition, how refreshing to read a book without any profanity.  Lenny Wilkens, you have been a credit to the game of basketball and you will touch a number of lives of those who will read your book.	2001-08-22
US	51749393	R1F4ZNERNDLMKZ	0671039628	32655650	The Day The Music Died (VH1 Behind the Music)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Memories Abound In This Book	Larry Lehmer's hardcover book entitled &quot;The Day the Music Died&quot; gives a very detailed review of the ill-fated Winter Dance Party in which Buddy Holly, Ritchie Valens, and J. P. Richardson, aka &quot;The Big Bopper&quot; took part.  If you would like to read a more concise version of these three singers I would strongly suggest you buy a copy of the paperback copy of &quot;Behind the Music:  The Day the Music Died.&quot;  This book contains 122 pages and includes numerous pictures of the singers in addition to the crash site.  Comments from family members and those who were close to the singers make up the prose of the book leading to accuracy in what they say.  I read the book in three sittings.  Make sure you have time when you sit down to read it because you will want to continue.  I intend to order numerous additional copies to give as gifts to friends.  Many thanks to authors Martin Huxley and Quinton Skinner for putting the book together.	2001-08-16
US	51749393	R37UCRIZXP39UK	1569801746	567554312	When Capone's Mob Murdered Roger Touhy: The Strange Case of "Jake the Barber" and the Kidnapping That Never Happened	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Interesting Information on A Little Known Case	Author John Tuohy, who has a similar spelling of the last name to his subject Roger, but apparently no relation, has provided us with an interesting story of northwest Chicago beer baron Roger Touhy who was in competition with Al Capone during Capone's heyday.  Touhy appeared to be winning the battle since Mayor Anton Cermak was deporting a number of Capone's cronies.  However, the mob hit, according to the author, on Mayor Cermak in Miami, Florida, by Giuseppe Zangara following a speech by President-elect Roosevelt, put an end to the harrassment of Capone's cronies.  The author details the staged &quot;kidnapping&quot; of Jake &quot;the Barber&quot; Factor who did this to avoid being deported to England and facing a prison sentence there for stock swindling, with Touhy having his rights violated and sent to prison for 25 years for the kidnapping that never happened.  Factor and other Chicago mobsters were making a lot of money with the Stardust Casino in Las Vegas when they got word that Touhy was to be parolled and planned to write his life story.  The mob, not wanting this, decided Touhy had to be eliminated.  Touhy was murdered by hit men in 1959, 28 days after gaining his freedom.  Jake Factor had also spent time in prison in the United States for a whiskey swindle involving 300 victims in 12 states.  Two days before Factor was to be deported to England to face prison for the stock swindle President Kennedy granted Factor a full Presidential Pardon after Factor's contribution to the Bay of Pigs fund.  President Kennedy, the author notes, issued 472 pardons (about half questionable) more than any president before or since.<br />  There are a number of books on Capone and the Chicago mob.  This book takes a look at an overlooked beer baron from that time period, Roger Touhy.  It is a very worthwhile read and one that will hold your interest.	2001-08-14
US	51749393	R3M3AWH0L2O1E4	0306808218	384404376	The Wicked City: Chicago From Kenna To Capone (Illinois)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	An Unsung Nugget	I have read a number of books on Chicago during the time of Al Capone including three of his biographies, but this book is an overlooked gem.  I accidentally came across it here at Amazon and decided to give it a try.  All the colorful characters are here including those Lords of the Levee (Bathhouse John and Hinky Dink) and a number of gangsters during that time period you may have heard of and others that will likely be new to you.  Yes, there are chapters of the McCormicks of Chicago, Jack Dempsey, the boxing champion of the time period, Louis Armstrong, and buffoon mayor, Big Bill Thompson.  Some readers may feel they are being told more than they care to know about Chicago prior to and during the Capone era.  I did not feel this way.  I have often wondered what happened to a number of the lesser lights who were not as well known.  The author provides us with this information. Also pointed out is that just saying a gangster was shot a number of times and killed doesn't do justice to the horror of what takes place.  In addition to the tears of loved ones there is &quot;no romance in mob warfare, only life's red blood, torn flesh, and death.&quot;  Many of these mobsters died in their twenties or thirties.  Sooner or later, usually sooner, most of them found their way to Mt. Carmel Cemetery.  This book rates a solid five stars.  I wish it was in hard cover.  If you are interested in this time period I would suggest you get a copy and read it.  You will not be disappointed.	2001-08-08
US	51749393	R2KH5METCTTFKH	0385495641	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Forgotten Epic Story of World War II's Most Dramatic Mission	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An Overlooked Part of World War II	When World War II is brought up in one way or another it usually is Adolf Hitler and the European front that gets the attention.  America's &quot;Europe First&quot; policy caused many of those captives of the Bataan Death March and their subsequent imprisonment in Cabanatuan on the island of Luzon in the Phillipines to feel they were forgotten in this war.  The story of their liberation after three years of suffering at the hands of the Japanese depicts man's imhumanity to man.  Supposedly the Japanese didn't intend to treat the Americans brutally on what became known as the Death March, but the large number of prisoners and their poor physical condition with lack of water and food slowed things down.  Also, the fact that the soldiers were so spread out, individual Japanese guards could treat the captives as he saw fit without having to answer to anyone in authority.  Many of these surviving soldiers feel forgotten now as they did then.  This is a story that younger generations should not be allowed to forget.  These men suffered terribly in fighting for America and we can't be too thankful for their lives which were forever changed.	2001-07-10
US	51749393	RUMFQISNAAR0K	1892049252	75569074	Sleeper Cars and Flannel Uniforms: A Lifetime of Memories from Striking Out the Babe to Teeing It Up with the President	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	A Man Who Has Lived A Full Life	Elden Auker provides the reader with a number of interesting stories from his rich interesting life.  Some of the stories I have read in other books, but Mr. Auker provides his own frank opinions on a number of baseball personalities.  He pulls no punches in his dislike for Leo Durocher whom he regards as a thief for stealing The Babe's watch.  Nevertheless, Leo was a great manager and he turned his life around before he died which should account for something.  Auker believes Pete Rose should not be reinstated into baseball because baseball has ironclad evidence that he bet on baseball but Rose will never admit it.  Auker states that Charles Comiskey is the one who should have been kicked out of baseball because Auker says that Joe Jackson was given $5,000 by the mob and when he turned it in to Comiskey and said, &quot;Here, I don't want this money.  I don't want in on this deal.&quot;, Comiskey told him to keep his mouth shut.  I have read quite a bit on the Black Sox scandal, but I have never come across this story.  That Jackson accepted $5,000 I can agree with, but that he turned it in to Comiskey with the above comments, is certainly news to me.  Nevertheless, Auker has led a full life which has included more than baseball.  I would suggest you read the book.  I'm sure you will enjoy it.	2001-06-10
US	51749393	R19OUKDAQBRDQE	0871137836	323802732	Killing Pablo: The Hunt for the World's Greatest Outlaw	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	A Worthwhile Read	With greed the motivator and a desire to feed an ego even bigger than the man himself, Pablo Escobar's reign of terror was bound to fall.  People like him have their zenith of fame and then the inevitable decline begins.  I enjoyed reading the book, but some parts of it got too complicated as far as modern technology goes in locating wherever Pablo happened to be.  However, that's my fault, not the autor's.  Those working to bring down Pablo, could never be sure who was on his payroll.  The words &quot;thug&quot; and &quot;sociopath&quot; both seem to apply towards Escobar.  He could speak calmly on the telephone with family members while the screams of those he was having tortured could be heard in the background.  The fact that he is gone is a benefit to humankind.	2001-06-02
US	51749393	R3VMKC14OINHQC	0060188650	271371893	Son of a Grifter: The Twisted Tale of Sante and Kenny Kimes, the Most Notorious Con Artists in America: A Memoir by the Other Son	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Hard to Believe, but Riviting	This is a book unlike any I have ever read.  For Kent Walker, one of the sons of Sante Kimes, to have survived such a miserable upbringing is proof that God puts other people in our lives to help us out.  If you looked up the word &quot;sociopath&quot; in a dictionary you may find a picture of Sante Kimes next to the definition.  Sadder still are the countless number of other people she victimized throughout her life, including that of her younger son, Kenny Kimes.  A gift of gab was Sante's method of getting a foot in the door with another person and greed was her motive.  Eventually she antagonized whomever she encountered.  This greed was what eventually led to her and her son Kenny now spending the rest of their lives in prison.  Sante's older son, Kent Walker, has done a masterful job of putting together one of the most interesting books I have read in some time.  It would be hard for me to say that you will enjoy what you are reading, but I guarantee you will not be bored.	2001-05-31
US	51749393	RS2QBH0H6WZV0	0226730735	535527075	For the Love of Mike: More of the Best of Mike Royko	Books	4	1	1	N	N	More Great Articles from Mike Royko	If you enjoyed reading Mike Royko's articles in newspapers or his previous book entitled &quot;One More Time&quot; you will enjoy this latest offering of more of his past articles.  He covers a variety of subjects ranging from his beloved Chicago Cubs to politics and civil rights in his usual sarcastic manner.  Neither book, however, has had my favorite article entitled &quot;Real Fans Endure Phonies&quot;.  The book is a good read and one I intend to keep for my library.	2001-05-24
US	51749393	R3NFNW7C58JVVZ	0814405614	65423478	Dugout Days : Untold Tales and Leadership Lessons from the Extraordinary Career of Billy Martin	Books	3	1	2	N	N	I'm Being Generous with Three Stars	I guess the main reason this book was written was to provide a more balanced account of Billy Martin. He certainly had a number of people who didn't care for him and a number of derogatory stories have been told about him. This book relates experiences about people such as Willie Horton, Paul Blair, Rod Carew, Mike Heath, and others who had positive experiences regarding Billy Martin. Any manager has individuals who can tell both positive or negative stories about them so Martin would not be unique in this respect.  I find Billy Martin to be an interesting individual to read about in baseball, but I found the book to have pretty much the same people commenting on him throughout.  It is not a story of his life, but one that is told by those having positive experiences with him. I buy baseball books to save for my baseball library, but if I had the chance to do it again, this book would have remained in the bookstore. I found it to be repetitious and boring at times.	2001-05-14
US	51749393	R9W95Z24PVQ8J	0151004412	906996867	The Head Game: Baseball Seen from the Pitcher's Mound	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Roger Kahn is Always Worth Reading	I am a big fan of Roger Kahn so I knew I was in for a good read. Yes, the title may suggest the psychological warfare that exists between pitcher and batter, and some of that does exist in the book.  I CAN understand why those who expected more of this in the book would be disappointed.  I appreciated reading about players from the 19th century in addition to those who dominated during the 20th century.  Kahn didn't disappoint me in what he had to say about the pitchers he discusses.  It isn't a tired rehash of what other authors have to say.  Roger has a way of expressing himself in ways that I appreciate and find interesting.  In regard to the whippersnappers at ESPN who voted Michael Jordan as the greatest athlete in the 20th century, Roger asks you to consider the fact that can it be that &quot;the greatest athlete of the century couldn't hit .250 in the minor leagues.&quot;  Kahn would pick either Jackie Robinson &quot;because no one was as good as Robinson in as many sports&quot; or Babe Ruth because &quot;Ruth might have become baseball's greatest pitcher if he had not changed course and become baseball's greatest slugger.&quot;  If you are looking for a technical book about baseball try &quot;Tim McCarver's Baseball for Brain Surgeons and Other Fans.&quot;  If you want a great read about some of baseball's best pitchers you can't go wrong with The Head Game by Roger Kahn.  Trust me on this one.	2001-04-11
US	51749393	R21L3EYFWEJ05H	0151004412	906996867	The Head Game: Baseball Seen from the Pitcher's Mound	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Roger Kahn is Always Worth Reading	I am a big fan of Roger Kahn so I knew I was in for a good read. Yes, the title may suggest the psychological warfare that exists between pitcher and batter, and some of that does exist in the book.  I CAN understand why those who expected more of this in the book would be disappointed.  I appreciated reading about players from the 19th century in addition to those who dominated during the 20th century.  Kahn didn't disappoint me in what he had to say about the pitchers he discusses.  It isn't a tired rehash of what other authors have to say.  Roger has a way of expressing himself in ways that I appreciate and find interesting.  In regard to the whippersnappers at ESPN who voted Michael Jordan as the greatest athlete in the 20th century, Roger asks you to consider the fact that can it be that &quot;the greatest athlete of the century couldn't hit .250 in the minor leagues.&quot;  Kahn would pick either Jackie Robinson &quot;because no one was as good as Robinson in as many sports&quot; or Babe Ruth because &quot;Ruth might have become baseball's greatest pitcher if he had not changed course and become baseball's greatest slugger.&quot;  If you are looking for a technical book about baseball try &quot;Tim McCarver's Baseball for Brain Surgeons and Other Fans.&quot;  If you want a great read about some of baseball's best pitchers you can't go wrong with The Head Game by Roger Kahn.  Trust me on this one.	2001-04-11
US	51749393	R3SIU7IQ1HWM1U	1566632870	759968266	The National Game: Baseball and American Culture	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A Quick Read on Baseball's History	No, this is not an all encompassing history of baseball, but if you are looking for a quick read on baseball's history this book would be perfect for you.  I finished it in two sittings, but I feel the author knows what he is talking about and it is worth five stars.  Author Rossi correctly points out that baseball's problems, for the most part, are not new ones.  He correctly points out that baseball's future is up in the air at this time, and unlike decades past, baseball is faced with other sports as competition for the interests of individuals. The problem of unequal television revenue among the different teams ranks as the key problem that baseball owners must solve.  The book is easy reading, but for a book that is 235 pages long the author does a great job covering baseball's history.  It will be a keeper in my extensive library of baseball books.	2001-03-26
US	51749393	R3P9QFMXCDT09B	0910137765	94942601	Uncle Robbie	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	This Book is an Unsung Gem	I have only one complaint about this book.  I wish it was available in hard cover.  Wilbert Robinson was a member of the nasty Baltimore Orioles of the 1890's and later distinguished himself as a pitching coach for his friend John McGraw's Giants and finally as the manager of the Brooklyn Dodgers from 1914-1931. The authors give us the true story of Robinson's catch of what he thought was a baseball from an airplane.  Their version is much different from what you may read in other baseball books.  The object he caught was a grapefruit and, no, the one who dropped it was not Casey Stengel, but a female airplane pilot.  Why the grapefruit?  Read the book and find out. The reason for Robinson's feud with his old pal John McGraw is here as well along with their reconcilation many years later.  The authors point out that Robinson has an underserved label as a clown due to the Dodgers reputation as being &quot;Daffy&quot; during his reign. As the authors point out, during those so-called Daffy years, &quot;the Robins won more games than they lost at home and played the Giants tough.  Robinson didn't win a pennant, but neither did McGraw.  In Brooklyn, that mattered a lot.&quot;  Wilbert Robinson is a deserving member of baseball's Hall of Fame whose career covered a very colorful period of baseball's history.  This book is an unsung gem, and Wilbert Robinson is a subject worthy of a book.  I only wish it was in hard cover.  Thanks to authors Kavanagh and Macht.  You have both done a great job and I know the subject of your book would thank you.	2001-03-25
US	51749393	R344HUKDE9EKB9	1578860032	132819757	Slide, Kelly, Slide: The Wild Life and Times of Mike King Kelly, Baseball's First Superstar (American Sports History Series)	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	Important Reading for Baseball Historians	Marty Appel bring us a signficant book about 19th century baseball, of which not enough is written.  This book is also one of 27 that The Easton Press has chosen in its deluxe library of the 27 top baseball books.  This books belongs.  Many of baseball's present day problems can be traced back to the late 1880's when both players and owners rangled over such concerns as high salaries and the reserve clause.  This is also the story of Cap Anson of the Chicago White Stockings getting fed up and ridding himself of the alcohol abusers on the team, Kelly included.  Consumption of alcohol by ballplayers was considered to be a sign of manliness (how sad) and many of the players of this time died young and poor.  We don't have many books available on 19th century baseball worth your time, but Slide, Kelly, Slide and a few others such as Where They Ain't (Willie Keeler and the Baltimore Orioles)  and A Clever Base-Ballist (John Montgomery Ward), are exceptions.  Appel's book will not disappoint you.	2001-03-08
US	51749393	R1IOD6V7B87VX2	1888698152	11508137	Babe Ruth Slept Here: The Baseball Landmarks of New York City	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Worth Reading	There is a lot of history in New York City and the surrounding area, much of it baseball and the author certainly covers it well.  Although much of what is in the book can certainly be found in other baseball books it is still a worth while read.  I realize it would have added much to the size of the book, but I would have liked to see more pictures such as of the present site of Lou Gehrig's birthplace on page 162 and of The Lambs' Club on page 212.  I found a few errors of which a few are inevitable, I suppose.  On page 196 the author says Bob Friend was the winning pitcher after the Giants' last game in the Polo Grounds (1957) and nine years later he was the winning pitcher in the first game at Shea Stadium (1964).  This would be seven years.  On page 73 the name of Billy Jurges was spelled &quot;Jurgez&quot;.  The most glaring mistake, however, came on page 80 when it is mentioned that Lou Gehrig was honored at Yankee Stadium on July 4, 1940. The correct year, of course, is 1939.  I would give the book a tough three stars, maybe even closer to four, but that Gehrig mistake really bothered me.	2001-03-03
US	51749393	R108GIVFSAGQPQ	0684853914	247231538	Joe DiMaggio: The Hero's Life	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A Fascinating, But Depressing Book	I believe this book rates with David Maraniss's book on Vince Lombardi as far as biographies go.  I give this book five stars because of all the research author Richard Cramer did, but I found it to be a very depressing book.  Yes, Joe DiMaggio was an outstanding baseball player.  I did find it to be a pathetic situation to have to live up to an image of being perfect and be hung up on making money.  He didn't want anyone taking advantage of him by making money off of his name, but if his problems are the price of being famous we can all give thanks that fame has eluded us.	2001-01-05
US	51749393	R1OQ0Y3TW2KFSH	0965384616	658001989	A Bittersweet Journey : America's Fascination with Baseball	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	A Book Worthy of Your Time	Larry Ritter started the trend of visiting former players in his classic entitled &quot;The Glory of Their Times.&quot;  The author of &quot;A Bittersweet Journey&quot; follows the same trend in visiting former players who are not necessarily stars.  Some of the stories I have read about before.  The best part of the book, at least for me, was the section entitled &quot;The Media.&quot;  Roger Kahn discusses visiting Brooklyn's Boys of Summer, Mike Royko tells us how he as a manager would deal with the modern ball player, Vin Scully relates the advice given him by Dodger broadcaster, Red Barber, and Robert Lipsyte tells us that baseball is not going to have the same place in our life that it once had.  Bob Cain tells us of his experience in pitching to midget Eddie Gaedel,  Jim Bouton revisits his book &quot;Ball Four,&quot; Bobby Thompson reveals his thoughts just prior to entering the batter's box just before he and Dodger pitcher Ralph Branca marched hand in hand into history.  I won't spoil it for you by giving you the answers to these experiences. The book is a quick read and is worthwhile.  I went through it in two sessions.	2000-11-20
US	51749393	R1T54GWROZ2CJI	0195134095	275859688	Setting the World Ablaze: Washington, Adams, Jefferson, and the American Revolution	Books	5	1	5	N	N	A Book Packed with Information on Three Giants	The author says Washington was the sword of the Revolution, Adams, the tongue, and Jefferson, the pen.  Each of these men left their mark on American history in their own way.  Washington led the army, Adams was the diplomat in France, and Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence.  Adams correctly states that no one individual was responsible for America's victory.  Jefferson was criticized by his peers for not taking a more active part in the war effort.  He was building Monticello when the war was on.  He did take on the job of Virginia's governor to quiet the criticism, but it wasn't a job he enjoyed by any means.  Their is a tremendous amount of information in this book.  Certainly too much to relate here.  It is not hard to understand, but you wouldn't read it the way you would read The Bobbsey Twins, either.  My only complaint about the book is the small print.  Read it slowly.  It is worth the effort.	2000-11-10
US	51749393	R2UJIUKA19Q4JY	0151002967	785572493	A Flame of Pure Fire: Jack Dempsey and the Roaring '20s	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Another Gem From Roger Kahn	I have to admit that I am a special fan of Roger Kahn's writings, especially his books on baseball.  I don't claim to be a boxing fan, but, as the author said, more than enough has been written on Babe Ruth and not enough on Jack Dempsey.  Kahn gives descriptive accounts on Dempsey's bouts with Jess Willard, Georges Carpentier, Gene Tunney, Luis Firpo, and others.  The 1920's has often been called The Golden Age of Sports and the author enlightens the reader with happenings from the political and social world of the '20's as well.  The great sports writers of the period such as Haywood Hale Broun, Paul Gallico, Grantland Rice, Ring Lardner, and William O. McGeehan are all here as well.  In reviewing the Demspey/Tunney fight in Chicago it is interesting to note that Kahn says, &quot;I am looking at a crooked referee.&quot;  You do not have to be a boxing fan to enjoy the book. I am not.  If, however, you enjoy American history the decade of the Roaring Twenties provided us with a cast of characters that Roger Kahn will bring back to life for you.  What are you waiting for?  Give yourself a treat.	2000-11-02
US	51749393	RDPKPJ5047NDB	0694517259	167154312	A Hero All His Life: A Memoir by the Mantle Family	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Mantle Family Reveals Its Problems To Help Others	If you are looking for a book on the baseball exploits of Mickey Mantle try another book.  Mickey, his wife, and sons reveal the difficulties they endured as they each battled alcohol addiction which led to numerous other problems in their lives.  It may seem like a depressing book, but the story is told in a way that other families might avoid the pitfalls the Mantle family suffered.  They are to be commended for their candidness.	2000-10-21
US	51749393	R10FH5TD36Z00A	0684808293	859962033	In Love With Night: The American Romance With Robert Kennedy	Books	5	8	12	N	N	A Keeper For Your Library	I feel the author did a first rate job in presenting the complex personality of Robert Kennedy to the reader.  Bobby's father always felt that finishing first was paramount.  If you finish second in anything, you might as well finish last.  When Brother John was elected president Bobby considered himself to be a deputy president.  After John's assassination, Bobby not only felt abandoned, but to think his enemy, Lyndon Johnson, now had the gall to be in his brother's place festered within him.  Bobby accepted the Warren Commission's belief of the assassination because he felt Jack's image would be shattered if an investigation dug too deeply which may have uncovered the CIA's efforts to kill Castro and Jack's sharing a mistress with a Mafia leader.  Bobby also felt a tremendous amount of guilt because he felt Jack's death to be retribution for his (Bobby's) harrassment of the Mafia.  Bobby had a hateful side which he showed to Lyndon Johnson and Senator Eugene McCarthy and a compassionate side which he demonstrated to the downtrowden.  As other Kennedys in more recent years Bobby took unnecessary risks, but as he said, &quot;I really don't care about anything happening to me.  This really isn't such a happy existence, is it?&quot;  The author doesn't believe the 1960's would have been any different had the Kennedys lived. What became Lyndon Johnson's war would have been Jack Kennedy's war.  In addition, it was no sure thing that Bobby Kennedy would have been elected president had he lived.  Lyndon Johnson accomplished more in the area of civil rights than either of the Kennedys would have pushed for.  He, like his brother, had charisma, and we look upon both more highly than if they had lived.  As poet A.E. Houseman wrote, in &quot;To An Athlete Dying Young&quot;, &quot;Smart lad to slip betimes away from fields where glory does not stay, and early though the laurel grows it withers quicker than the rose...Now you will not swell the rout of lads that wore their honors out. Runners whom renown outran and the name died before the man.&quot;  Buy the book.  It belongs in your bookcase.rs out. Runners whom renown outran and the name died before the man.&quot;  Buy the book.  It belongs in your bookcase.	2000-10-17
US	51749393	R1KZ94VGQIEZDR	1582612463	722530302	CARL ERSKINE'S TALES FROM THE DODGER DUGOUT	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Light Reading for Everyone	A book doesn't have to be heavy reading to merit five stars.  I was a kid just getting interested in baseball during the glory years of &quot;The Boys of Summer.&quot;  Near the back of the book Carl says, &quot;It's fun to look back at days and events that have long since past.&quot;  That's the feeling I had while reading this book.  However, this book would be for anyone including children with short attention spans since the book is a series of short anecdotes about his years with the Brooklyn Dodgers.  I finished it in two sittings.  I came across a number of familiar stories, but also a number I've never heard before even though I've read  many books on the Brooklyn Dodgers.  I did find a mistake on P.156 where Carl states that lights were first used in Cincinnati and Brooklyn in 1946.  Lights were first used in Cincy in 1935 and in Bklyn. in 1938 with Vandermeer's second no-hitter.  Nevertheless, if you want a quick read about these great years told my a player who deeply appreciates being part of that team, pick up a copy of this book.  This would also be a good introductory book on this team for a child as well.  I've read hundreds of baseball books and I enjoyed it.	2000-10-14
US	51749393	R1FAVQ41FVT5NO	0803210566	595372193	More than Merkle: A History of the Best and Most Exciting Baseball Season in Human History	Books	3	2	6	N	Y	A Good Book, But Certainly Not A Classic	Another book written on a particular year.  As the title suggests, there was more to the 1908 baseball season than the Merkle incident. The book reviews each major league team, the umpires, managers, and what fans were like during this Dead Ball era year.  The author makes the case for the custom of not touching 2nd base on a game winning hit due to getting off the field as soon as possible before being mobbed by the fans on the field.  Also, he questions why Manager McGraw of the Giants didn't warn his players about the necessity of touching 2nd base on a game winning hit since a similar incident happened prior to the Merkle game between the Cubs and Pirates.  The introduction begins with a quote from Cubs' shortstop Joe Tinker who the author identifies as &quot;second base, Chicago Cubs.&quot;  Also, on the last page of the book the author spells the name of Tigers' pitcher Denny McLain as Denny &quot;McClain.&quot;  Errors such as this bother me and make me question other details I may not be aware of.	2000-10-13
US	51749393	R2NSZ72V4GVBB1	0878331573	467804838	Koufax	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Add This Book to Your Library	I saw Sandy Koufax pitch one game.  It was in Milwaukee on August 8,1964, against the Braves.  I remember two things about the game.  Tony Cloninger's pick-off attempt at second base in which Koufax dove back into the bag but endured a hard tag.  When he reached third base he was twirling his arm around in circles.  The following day his elbow swelled up and his arm was in a hooked position.  Shortly thereafter, he was diagnosed with arthritis.  The author does a good job of covering Sandy's career and those who may be too young to remember Koufax from the years 1963 through 1966 should familiarize themselves with his career.  I didn't especially care that the author spent part of a number of chapters covering inning by inning of the 7th game of the 1965 Series against the Minnesota Twins.  This could have been covered in one chapter.  I did find what I believe to be two errors in the book.  On page 78 the author says, &quot;Umpire Ed Hurley ruled CATCHER'S interference, called Nossek (the batter) out, and returned Versalles to first.&quot;  I believe it should be BATTER'S interference.  On page 223 I believe the author misquotes once more when Koufax was named Baseball Athlete of the Decade.  Sandy is quoted as saying, &quot;I think it's incredible because there were guys like Mays and Henry Aaron who were great players for 10 years of more,&quot; Koufax said.  &quot;After all, my big years were spread over a full decade. I only had four or five good years.&quot;  Instead of saying MY good years, I'm sure he meant to say THEIR good years.  Koufax credits Dodger pitching coach Joe Becker for his success and also catcher Norm Sherry, who in spring training of 1961 suggested that Sandy throw somewhat easier to gain control.  It turned out that his overthrowing was causing his wildness.  The epilogue asks the question as to where Koufax belongs in regard to other great pitchers in the game.  Rather than argue that, let's just say the game was blessed by this fantastic athlete who pitched with pain probably unlike any other hurler and excelled in spite of it.athlete who pitched with pain probably unlike any other hurler and excelled in spite of it.	2000-10-10
US	51749393	RMRIZZ6PBG9FW	0879517190	660165890	This Is Berlin: Radio Broadcasts from Nazi Germany	Books	5	9	10	N	N	William Shirer and the Third Reich	The fact that William Shirer was limited by the Nazis in what he could write in this book should not detract from what he has to say about events in Berlin, Germany, during the years 1938 through 1940.  At times Shirer would use expressions or other methods unfamiliar to the German censors to get his point across to American readers in his diary.  In each case of a German takeover, the Nazis would use the excuse of &quot;counterattack&quot; or to &quot;rescue the citizens of the country&quot; they were invading.  Shirer was placed in this part of the world during a very historic period in history, and provides readers with his best efforts despite Nazi censors.  Eventually his frustration at what he was allowed to report made him feel like a spokesperson for the Nazi regime, and he felt his usefulness as a reporter was over.  We can always be thankful for what he has left us regarding World War II.	2000-09-30
US	51749393	R21PHE0F17VJ7I	0028647416	233009934	The Day the Music Died	Books	5	26	28	N	Y	A Detailed Story of the Winter Dance Party	Author Larry Lehmer has provided readers with a very detailed story of the events that led up to the deaths of early rock and roll stars Buddy Holly, Ritchie Valens, J. P. Richardson, and pilot Roger Peterson.  Individual chapters are provided on each individual and a thorough description of the various cities the rock stars visited during the Winter Dance Party in the Upper Midwest beginning in January of 1959.  Due to inadequate bus transportation with little or no heat, the three singers decided to charter an airplane from Clear Lake, Iowa, to Fargo, North Dakota, for their next performance in Moorhead, Minnesota, to arrive early and get some needed rest.  The crash of the airplane was due to poor flying conditions and the inadequate skills of the pilot in flying by instruments.  The author explores other theories such as a fight on the plane or, incredibly, Buddy Holly shooting the pilot.  Author Lehmer also provides a great deal of information on the airplane that was used and what has become of the arenas the singers used for their performances in each of the visited cities.  Numerous photos of the singers during this Winter Dance Tour and of the crash site are also provided.  Some readers may feel they are being told more than they want to know about this subject, but the author has done an incredible job in covering this story of this incident and what rock and roll was like during the late 1950's.	2000-09-30
US	51749393	R3NZA96YSE910I	1582612803	348134244	1960: The Last Pure Season	Books	2	23	23	N	Y	A Good Subject, But A Disappointing Book	There has been a trend in the past few years to write books that cover a particular season, and 1960 would be a good year to include in a book.  However, I didn't find anything new here.  I feel it would be a book more suitable for high school students who are totally unfamiliar with that year in baseball.  I was immediately suspicious with repeated misspellings of &quot;Ebbetts Field&quot;.  This would be an easy thing to check.  Also on Page 129 I shuddered when I came across the name of &quot;Johnny DeMaestri&quot;.  Joe Demaestri, of course, along with first baseman Kent Hadley (neither mentioned) were acquired by the Yankees along with Roger Maris following the 1959 season.  The book is filled out with appendices A-E with statistics, team rosters, trades, etc.  I'm sorry, but I was disappointed.	2000-09-29
US	51749393	RUURQL17Z4TET	1558492623	419157327	Cy Young: A Baseball Life	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	A Book Long Overdue	Imagine a major league pitcher winning twenty games for twenty years.  That would still put him 111 wins behind Cy Young.  It's about time we had an authorative book on baseball's winningist pitcher.  The author did a lot of research on this book, and it's true that the casual fan will find he is being told more than he wants to know about Cy Young.  Young says the secret to his longevity as a pitcher lies in taking care of his body and not throwing more pitches than necessary to get a batter out.  Hence, he never set any strikeout records.  If you consider yourself interested in the history of baseball, add this book to your library with biographies of other great players.  If you are a casual fan you might want to try something that is lighter reading.	2000-09-25
US	51749393	RZ7Z13XX5JAG7	1583820620	65548480	Talking on Air: A Broadcaster's Life in Sports	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A Man with A Memorable Career	Although Ken Coleman was primarily identified with the Boston Red Sox, you don't have to be a fan of the Bosox to enjoy this book. (I'm a Tigers' fan.)  Ken was blessed to be a part of the Cleveland Indians, Coach Paul Brown's Cleveland Browns during the days of the great Jim Brown, Cincinnati's Big Red Machine, and two stints with the Boston Red Sox, including the Impossible Dream year of 1967 (The Year of the Yaz.)  The most interesting story that I found was Ken's telling for the first time the story of the decline of Indians' pitcher, Herb Score.  People attribute Score's decline to the 1957 line drive off the bat of Yankees' infielder, Gil McDougald.  However, Coleman relates that Score had his ankle injured in a spring training pickup basketball game in 1958 and tried to come back too soon before his ankle had a chance to heal and ended up with a sore arm.  Ken provides us with a good summation of his career and his subsequent retirement from play-by-play work.  He wanted to continue on a year-by-year basis, but an excuse was given that an announcer was wanted who would insure of being there for four full years.  We are all remembered by what we give to others, and Ken Coleman gave his listeners and others he came into contact with a lot to remember. The Lord doesn't permit us to know all the good we do for others, but, in time, He will reward us.  Thank you, Ken, for sharing your career with us.	2000-09-24
US	51749393	R20VPXJSY6N0R0	1556114958	182039274	Seasons in Hell	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	An Absolutely Hilarious Book	If you're looking for a scholarly book on baseball, this one is not for you.  If, however, you enjoy funny anecdotes about the game this book will keep you riveted.  Here's an example:  The author, who covered the Texas Rangers, decided to walk back to his downtown hotel in Detroit from Tiger Stadium following a night game.  Upon arrival at his destination he congratulated himself on his safe arrival.  After taking the elevator to his room he found the key wouldn't work.  He went down to the front desk and berated the desk clerk about the key to his room not working.  The clerk examined it and returned it to the individual by saying, &quot;No wonder it doesn't work.  You're in the wrong hotel, but don't feel bad because you only missed it by one block.&quot;  With subjects like Billy Martin and Whitey Herzog at the helm of the Texas Rangers between the years 1973-1975 the book is loaded with funny stories.  This book is a keeper.	2000-09-22
US	51749393	R15XAMRWSJ2VQ3	0028648153	196889577	Irving Berlin: A Life in Song	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A True Master At His Craft	While this book doen't cover as much of Berlin's personal life as does  Laurence Bergreen's biography entitled As Thousands Cheer, Furia's  biography does cover in great detail the background involved in a number of  Berlin's songs.  &quot;What'll I Do&quot; was written just after the loss  of his mother.  However, Berlin said people read too much personal stuff  whenever he writes a ballad. I like the fact that the author includes the  lyrics of a number of Berlin's songs.  Despite being a prolific song  writer, Berlin often felt insecure about his ability to continue to write  songs. Following his first big hit, &quot;Alexander's Ragtime Band&quot; he  always felt he had to continue to follow up with another big hit.  He was  able to continue to adjust to the music tastes of the country until rock  and roll came in the mid-fifties.  He became a very private man in his  later years and felt people no longer cared about his music.  Despite these  thoughts, his contributions to American music remain timeless and will  remain with us long after the latest fad of music passes by.  To think that  so many great songs came from this one man simply boggles the mind.	2000-09-14
US	51749393	R2CN60RPRZ2A6A	1558852255	655905077	The Tall Mexican: The Life of Hank Aguirre All-Star Pitcher, Businessman, Humanitarian	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Loving Review of the Life of High Henry	One of my memories of Hank Aguirre is his pitching in relief of the first major league game I saw in Detroit in 1958.  After completing a game in  Yankee Stadium in which Al Kaline broke his collar bone to make a diving  catch to win the game the headline read &quot;Tigers Find A Starter But  Lose A Star&quot;, the Tigers found they had a legitimate starting pitcher  for their staff.  Hank's inability as a hitter are legendary, but the  author spends a great deal of time on Hank's humanitarian efforts on behalf  of Hispanic minorities in the Detroit area.  His business efforts were  ultimately successful, but the time spent away from his family took its  toll.  People are remembered for what they give, and Hank gave of himself  to others.  This is a very easy to read book, and one that would be  beneficial to high school libraries even though the name of Hank Aguirre is  an unknown to them.	2000-09-09
US	51749393	R1PHV6QWE7E17V	0960157441	730806000	My Years With Capone: Jack Woodford and Al Capone	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Interesting Details Provided	The author of this book claims to have been a piano player for Al Capone.  Al often would request him to play Al's favorite song, Roses of Picardy.  The author claims to have been taken along to witness the St. Valentine's  Day Massacre and provides interesting details of what took place.  He  claims some of the victims were swearing while others cried because they  knew what fate awaited them.  He also claims to have been in a barbershop  with Capone and Machine Gun Jack McGurn when it was reported that Capone  torpedos John Scalise, Albert Anselmi, and Joe Guinta were killed.  He  reports that Capone was upset with this while McGurn told him it had to be  done.  He exonerated Capone who it is often claimed clubbed the trio to  death with a baseball bat following a party in nearby Hammond, Indiana.  Interesting details are provided in this book, and we as readers are left  to decide whether or not they are true.	2000-09-07
US	51749393	R23WAWWRGBOKVO	0878331778	273518660	Durocher's Cubs: The Greatest Team That Didn't Win	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	I Had Hoped For More	While this book does provide insight into the conflicts between the Cubs'  players and Manager Leo Durocher, I thought the book contained too much  statistical analysis and game by game detail. Leo, as manager of the Cubs,  apparently wasn't the same manager who led those earlier Brooklyn Dodger  and New York Giant teams of the late 40's and early to mid-50's.  Perhaps  one who loves statistics would be more interested in analyzing why the Cubs  lost during Durocher's tenure.  What it boils down to is that it was a  combination of reasons such as Durocher not resting his regulars  periodically in favor of bench players or failure to use relief pitchers  other than Phil Regan, and players partying out on Rush Street at 3:00 a.m.  rather than getting the necessary rest to play the game the following  afternoon.  The book was okay, but I guess I expected more.	2000-09-07
US	51749393	R1YHQDKLE4P6DU	0312145578	847648187	Buddy Holly: A Biography	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Strong Five Star Book	This book brought back a lot of musical memories from the late 1950's and provided a lot of information regarding this period of time.  The fame that went with being a rock and roll star was not all that it was cracked up to  be.  Buddy's home town of Lubbock, Texas, didn't really appreciate the fact  that they had a well known celebrity in their midst.  In addition, there  are stories about other rock stars such as Buddy Knox and Jimmy Bowen.  An  interesting story of Buddy's appearance on the Ed Sullivan Show regarding  his singing the controversial song &quot;Oh Boy&quot; is told.  Norman  Petty was the one who controlled Buddy Holly's money and this made it  difficult for Buddy to even buy groceries for himself and his wife.  While  Buddy and his wife were living in Greenwich Village in New York City in  1959 it was his wife's aunt who supported them.  This lack of money was the  reason Buddy decided to go on the ill-fated Winter Dance Party through the  upper midwest that began in January of 1959.  This turned into a poorly put  together affair by GAC, General Artists Corporation, which provided a  poorly equipped bus in which to travel.  It was this constant travel in a  freezing bus with a bad engine and a concert to give every night in a  different town that led to using a chartered airplane.  Ironically,  February 2nd was supposed to be their only day off during this Winter Dance  Party, but GAC then scheduled them to appear in Mason City, Iowa, for that  night shortly before this date.  Buddy decided to hire a chartered airplane  to fly he and his band members, Waylon Jennings and Tommy Allsup, to  Moorhead, Minnnesota, so they could get some rest while the others took the  bus.  J. P. Richardson, The Big Bopper, was ill with the flu and he wanted  to fly ahead, so he took Waylon Jennings place on the plane.  Ritchie  Valens also hoped to fly ahead and he and Allsup flipped a coin  to see who  would fly as the third passenger.  Valens &quot;won&quot; the flip.  The  pilot of the airplane, Roger Peterson, wasn't fully qualified to fly the  plane, but he didn't want to pass up a chance to fly the three stars.  Peterson's mother blamed the rock stars for her son's death by saying that  if they had not wanted to take a plane, her son would not have died.  Despite the loss of these three members of the group, the remaining members  including Dion and the Belmonts, had to complete the tour which ended in  mid-February.  Bobby Vee was a high school student in Moorhead, Minnesota,  and he volunteered to help fill in for this next concert.  Some careers  start in strange ways.  Following Buddy's death, his parents would make a  few trips to Mason City to see where their son last performed.  A person's  life is not measured in how many years they live.  Buddy's was a short one,  but he did leave a lasting impact on a generation of his fans and  influenced a number of singers who became popular after he died.  There are  a number of other interesting stories in this book.  I would very much  recommend this book to you.  I only wish it was in hard cover.lip.  The  pilot of the airplane, Roger Peterson, wasn't fully qualified to fly the  plane, but he didn't want to pass up a chance to fly the three stars.   Peterson's mother blamed the rock stars for her son's death by saying that  if they had not wanted to take a plane, her son would not have died.  Despite the loss of these three members of the group, the remaining members  including Dion and the Belmonts, had to complete the tour which ended in  mid-February.  Bobby Vee was a high school student in Moorhead, Minnesota,  and he volunteered to help fill in for this next concert.  Some careers  start in strange ways.  Following Buddy's death, his parents would make a  few trips to Mason City to see where their son last performed.  A person's  life is not measured in how many years they live.  Buddy's was a short one,  but he did leave a lasting impact on a generation of his fans and  influenced a number of singers who became popular after he died.  There are  a number of other interesting stories in this book.  I would very much  recommend this book to you.  I only wish it was in hard cover.	2000-07-24
US	51749393	R2VH1TEKHBJPNW	0374226385	289107622	On the Rez	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Great Reading for Young and Old Alike	I find it hard to add anything new to what other reviewers have already posted.  I bought the book because I visited Pine Ridge and Wounded Knee in 1974 and was curious what this author would have to say.  The more I read  the book the more enjoyable it became.  Indians are often neglected when  the subject of poverty comes up, but Ian Frazier brings it realistically to  life in his book On The Rez.  Also, we often don't think of Indians when  the subject of racism comes up, but the story of SuAnne Big Crow prior to a  high school basketball game in Lead, South Dakota, was very inspiring.  It's too bad her life was cut short.  She had so much to offer this country  and she planned on using her talents home at Pine Ridge.  This is a book I  plan on donating to our high school library so other girls her age can  benefit from her experiences.  I know SuAnne would appreciate it.	2000-06-21
US	51749393	R25I18FOFNHAO9	0813120411	28318997	Baseball's Pivotal Era, 1945-1951	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Great Book on a Memorable Era	I especially enjoyed this book because it fills the time period from my age of two to eight years of age.  I became a fan with the end of the &quot;pivotal era&quot;.  The author notes correctly that progress made during this era stagnated with the arrival of Ford &quot;It's a League  Matter&quot; Frick as commissioner after Happy Chandler didn't live up to  letting the owners do as they please.  Significant details such as the  Mexican League, the crucial year of 1947 with the arrival of Jackie  Robinson, the Indians' championship of 1948, the 1950 Philly Whiz Kids, and  the details leading up to Thomson's homer in 1951 all make this a  significant book both for the knowledgable fan and the newcomer interested  in baseball history.  I did find a few minor errors such as on page 271,  the author refers to Bill Bevans of near no-hitter fame in the 1947 World  Series as Hal Bevans.  Also, former Tigers manager, Red Rolfe, is said to  have been replaced as manager in 1951 by Charley Gehringer.  Rolfe was  replaced during the 1952 season by former Tigers' pitcher Fred Hutchinson.  Finally, Jackie Robinson died at the age of 53, not 56 as the author states  on page 437.  I can certainly put up with these errors.  There is a lot to  cover in the game's history during these years, and the author did a great  job of covering the time period when I was too young to appreciate what was  going on in the game of baseball.  It's too bad the time period following  this era was presided over by a do-nothing commissioner when the game was  crying for leadership.  However, the owners got exactly what they wanted in  Ford Frick.	2000-04-25
US	51749393	R1Q14DBAH19W3V	1888698098	26929953	Judge and Jury: The Life and Times of Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	A Thorough Biography	Someone once described Branch Rickey as a man of many facets, and they are all turned on.  Much the same could describe baseball's first commissioner. Landis, being a baseball fan, appeared to make decisions which would  benefit the game.  An example would be delaying the Federal League court  decision which could have changed the game radically.  Rather than make a  decision he didn't want to make, he delayed until  a settlement could be  made with the major leagues.  He banned Shufflin' Phil Douglas when Douglas  said he would go fishing rather than pitch a game for the Giants he would  probably win.  This was to get back at his manager, John McGraw, who gave  him a vicious tongue lashing and had him given a so-called harsh drying out  from alcohol abuse without his wife's knowledge as to his whereabouts.  When asked by Landis his side of the story, Douglas didn't defend himself  against McGraw's actions and just hung his head.  Gambling wasn't a  banishable offense prior to the Cobb/Speaker incident in 1927, and Landis  seemed to let these two superstars off easy, whereas he was especially hard  on Rogers Hornsby.  The Rajah, who enjoyed attending the racetrack, stood  up to Landis and said his wagering money at the racetrack was no different  than Landis losing money in the stockmarket.  An unfortunate character in  the story is Jimmy O'Connell of the Giants.  O'Connell, naively approached  Heinie Sand of the Phillies about making it worth his while to lose a game  against the Giants during the last week of the season.  Sand, knowing what  happened to Buck Weaver of the White Sox, reported the incident, and this  led to O'Connell's banishment from the game.  The sad part of this story is  that O'Connell's teammates, Frank Frisch and Ross Youngs played a prank on  O'Connell and Jimmy took it seriously.  Frisch and Youngs, both Hall of  Famers, were never punished.  Landis's treatment of the eight Black Sox  players would never be upheld today.  His beginning statement,  &quot;Regardless of the verdict of juries...&quot; tells it all.  Landis  would do what he wanted.  He would never get away with that with either the  ACLU or the players' union if they had one at that time.  The author  appears to defend Landis for his lack of action towards allowing blacks to  play in the major leagues.  Landis said he feared riots in ball parks if  blacks were admitted.  Maybe it was true that the time was not right, but  he hid behind the tired response stating there was no rule prohibiting  blacks from playing in the major leagues.  Maybe not, but there was a  &quot;gentleman's agreement&quot; that none would be signed.  Some  gentlemen!  Landis was hired by the owners, but he didn't appear to respect  them.  He claimed to be a player's commissioner, and one way he showed that  was in releasing players from the minor leagues that he felt covered up  preventing their advancement.  You really never knew what Landis' reaction  would be to something.  He could be very unpredictable with what he would  do regarding an issue, and he seemed to play favorites regarding players.  He didn't care for Branch Rickey, who he may have felt was hypocritical by  playing the part of a preacher while doing things that Landis felt were  self-serving.  The Judge had his fights with J. G. Taylor Spink, the  publisher of The Sporting News because a Saturday Evening Post article  referred to Spink as Mr. Baseball and the conscience of baseball.  There  are some strong willed personalities in this book and the author does an  excellent job of bringing this part of baseball and American history to  life.tement,  &quot;Regardless of the verdict of juries...&quot; tells it all.  Landis  would do what he wanted.  He would never get away with that with either the  ACLU or the players' union if they had one at that time.  The author  appears to defend Landis for his lack of action towards allowing blacks to  play in the major leagues.  Landis said he feared riots in ball parks if  blacks were admitted.  Maybe it was true that the time was not right, but  he hid behind the tired response stating there was no rule prohibiting  blacks from playing in the major leagues.  Maybe not, but there was a  &quot;gentleman's agreement&quot; that none would be signed.  Some  gentlemen!  Landis was hired by the owners, but he didn't appear to respect  them.  He claimed to be a player's commissioner, and one way he showed that  was in releasing players from the minor leagues that he felt covered up  preventing their advancement.  You really never knew what Landis' reaction  would be to something.  He could be very unpredictable with what he would  do regarding an issue, and he seemed to play favorites regarding players.   He didn't care for Branch Rickey, who he may have felt was hypocritical by  playing the part of a preacher while doing things that Landis felt were  self-serving.  The Judge had his fights with J. G. Taylor Spink, the  publisher of The Sporting News because a Saturday Evening Post article  referred to Spink as Mr. Baseball and the conscience of baseball.  There  are some strong willed personalities in this book and the author does an  excellent job of bringing this part of baseball and American history to  life.	2000-04-16
US	51749393	RESD7SC33BUSD	1559704802	27321882	Sons and Brothers: The Days of Jack and Bobby Kennedy	Books	5	41	43	N	N	A very well researched book	It is interesting to go through those turbulent years of the 1960's and get a clearer understanding of what took place.  The author shows how vulnerable a country can be when people in high places such as President  Kennedy and F.B.I. Director J. Edgar Hoover place themselves in  compromising positions subject to possible blackmail from others.  President Kennedy wouldn't get away with his extramarital relations now as  he did in the '60's.  I was especially impressed with Robert Kennedy in  this book.  This man was a doer who showed a genuine concern for the  improvished in this country (the blacks, Indians, Mexicans, and poor  whites) when he could have chosen not to get involved.  His attacks on the  mafia may have led to his brother's death, but he had the courage to face  up to the problem rather than pretend it didn't exist.  Leaders always have  someone who don't like them, and the Kennedys, along with Dr. Martin  Luther King, paid the ultimate price  for this.  It's too bad that there  was such friction between the Kennedys, King, Johnson, and Hoover. Working  together, they could have accomplished more for the country.  I thoroughly  enjoyed the book, and it was interesting to revisit this turbulent period  in history.	2000-03-31
US	51749393	R34DQNWGRLDDFJ	0375503307	331077470	The Perfect Season: Why 1998 Was Baseball's Greatest Year	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A QUICK READ ON THE '98 SEASON	The 1998 baseball season was, indeed, a memorable one, and Tim McCarver does a good job of reviewing it.  The McGuire/Sosa home run battle made it especially so, and their respect for each other and the game added to it.  Tim gives his opinions and analysis of events of the season which add to  the book's interest.  Brief chapters are devoted to such players as Dan  Quisenberry and Eric Davis.  The Yankees show what it takes to make a  winning team by their ability to win in whatever way the other team makes  available to them.  The book was easy to read and I found it interesting,  but I certainly wouldn't call it a classic by any means.	2000-03-27
US	51749393	RI7QL3LUCH3O5	0393311384	937704062	Field of Screams: The Dark Underside of America's National Pastime	Books	3	3	4	N	N	SUBJECT MATTER NOT LIMITED TO BASEBALL	The book is entertaining to read, but let's not think this subject matter is limited to the sport of baseball.  Equally disgusting incidents could be dug up regarding other sports.  Let's not be so naive to think the people  who play baseball are somehow different than those who populate other  sports.  To me, a pitcher who throws beanballs is a coward.  It is the  batter's job to hit the ball, and the pitcher who feels he must drill a  batter for doing that is a coward.  You don't see a batter throwing a bat  at the pitcher for striking him out.  I also found a couple of mistakes.  Ordinarily a spelling mistake would be minor, but the author spells the  name of Walt Hreniak as Walt &quot;Wreniak&quot;.  He should know better.  Of greater significance are the pictures of Ted Williams on pages 257 and  277.  The same picture shows Williams appearing to be jumping up in a fit  of anger.  Page 259 states that this happened when &quot;Ted Williams  throws bat 75 feet into stands, where it hits Red Sox general manager Joe  Cronin's housekeeper.&quot; While true, the author would like to have us  believe it was intentional. Page 277 states that this same picture is one  in which Williams spat at the fans. The pictures that shows Williams  jumping with his arms in the air and cringing is the one in which the bat  ACCIDENTALLY slipped out of his hands and landed in the stands. However,  these identical pictures I referred to are NOT of him spitting nor  intentionally throwing the bat in the stands as the author would have us  believe.  The picture is his reaction to fear of what is going to happen  when the bat lands in the stands.  Ted explained this picture in one of his  own books.  I found the book entertaining, but we certainly could find  equally disgusting incidents in other sportrs, also.  Finally, if the  author was aware of the story behind the picture of Williams on the listed  pages, and chose to embellish, shame on him.  Otherwise, it is a mistake  that could easily have been corrected with more research.easily have been corrected with more research.	2000-03-23
US	51749393	R2B6895S0HUCWZ	0912083212	869174836	Voices of the Game: The First Full-Scale Overview of Baseball Broadcasing, 1921 to the Present	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Must for Every Baseball Fan's Library	How fortunate I was to grow up during the 1950's and be old enough to remember most of these announcers as they painted pictures for us through the medium of radio. Curt Smith does a superb job of bringing these names back to us.  Dizzy Dean and Bud Blattner and later Pee Wee Reese, Harry Caray and Jack Buck, Bob Prince, Byrum Saam, Jack Brickhouse, Vin Scully, Ray Scott along with Herb Carneal and Halsey Hall, Earl Gillespie, Ernie Harwell, and, of course, Red Barber and Mel Allen along with many others are chronicled here in this historical book on the voices that brought the National Pastime alive via the medium of radio and later television.  If you are not familiar with many of the names listed above, be good to yourself and educate yourself. The many men in this book made it possible for the fan to be able to say like singer Terry Cashman, \\"I saw it on the radio.\\"  I found this book to be a must to include in any baseball fan's library.	2000-03-12
US	51749393	R2ZBLZ4GY6ZBZT	0671675621	5679789	Patriots: The Men Who Started the American Revolution	Books	5	13	16	N	Y	My Favorite Book on the American Revolution	I find this to be a well researched and readable book on the Revolutionary War.  The characters are portrayed as people rather than as gods.  We are born knowing that Washington crossed the Delaware, that Paul Revere made a  famous ride, and that Benedict Arnold turned traitor.  This book gives the  reasons behind the events.  I'm lucky enough to have the hard cover.  I  wish more copies of hard covered editions were still available.	2000-02-12
US	51749393	RZ6T74NPZM3QK	1558532706	119211159	Great Stories of the American Revolution	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Light Reading and Enjoyable	If you're looking for an interesting and fast reading book on the Revolutionary War, you may want to pick up this as a starter.  The chapters are short and provide quite a bit of information about the principal  characters.  I did find, however, two errors of minor consequence.  One has  John Adams buried in the Garnary Burying Ground in downtown Boston, when it  is Sam Adams who is buried there.  The other error, I believe, is made when  the author quotes Colonel William Prescott as the author of the line,  &quot;Don't fire until you see the whites of their eyes&quot; at the Battle  of Bunker Hill.  Other sources attribute this line to Israel Putnam, who  supposedly was quoting a Prussian prince from 30 years earlier. In any case  I found this to be an enjoyable book and I suggest it to anyone who finds  this war to be interesting reading.	2000-02-12
US	51749393	R1UGJ7R2MM8M3S	0786702540	741590010	Nice Guys Finish First - The Autobiography of Monte Irvin	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Enjoyable and Light Reading	Monte Irvin provides us with his experiences of playing in the Negro Leagues prior to joining the New York Giants.  The part I enjoyed best was his relating his experience of playing with the Giants since I was a kid at  that time.  He seems to feel that Rickey's choice of Jackie Robinson to  break the color barrier was the wrong choice that worked out well.  Irvin  feels he could have been the chosen player and handled it better due to his  more noncombative nature.  He also provides us with his opinions on present  day baseball related matters.  He liked Bowie Kuhn as a commissioner, but  feels he erred in not being present at Aaron's record breaking home run.  Irvin, as Kuhn's aid, substituted for him.  He doesn't feel Pete Rose  should be elected to the Hall of Fame due to his gambling.  Irvin blows his  own horn a few times in the book, but I found it to be enjoyable, but  certainly not a classic.	2000-02-06
US	51749393	R3LXQ0R4SPSBZ5	0942627458	784994184	This Copyrighted Broadcast	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hank Gives Us Quite A Variety	I was not familiar with Hank Greenwald, but I enjoy most any book written by a baseball announcer, and Hank provides us with numerous stories from his days with the Giants and Yankees. Although I am not a fan of the NBA, I  did follow the St. Louis Hawks in the 1960's and I enjoyed hearing his  stories as an announcer in the NBA during this period.  Yes, there are  personal stories here regarding his daughter with Down Syndrome, but the  family's experiences in this area is valuable for anyone in this situation.  I enjoyed his experiences in the Phillipines reliving General MacArthur's  returning to the island of Leyte, and the patience shown by his wife.  We  are treated to a visit to Australia and given information about that  country/continent which some may not find to be interesting in this type of  book.  At the end Hank vents his frustrations about the problems in the  game of baseball today.  Since the book has been written, league presidents  have been done away with and the umpiring situation should be improving.  The owners' problem of asking the playears to save them from themselves  remains to be solved.  We are also treated to a poem on &quot;The Polo  Grounds&quot;, Hank's favorite ballpark and mine, even though I've never  seen the park in person.  I have, however, visited the site twice.  It's a  good book and worth reading.	2000-01-31
US	51749393	R24XFXRN3F8OYA	0451194268	311149257	Wit and Wisdom of Baseball	Books	1	4	4	N	N	Nothing New Here	If you have a spare hour, you may want to go through this book of baseball quotes.  There is nothing really new in this book that can't be found in other such baseball books.  If you haven't read a book on baseball quotes  before, you may want to look at it; otherwise you can give this one an  intentional pass.  Here are my two favorites from the book: Taken from a  newspaper article from the 1920's, &quot;Allen Sutton Sothoron pitched his  initials off today.&quot;  Also, &quot;It was a cross between a screwball  and a changeup.  It was a screw-up.&quot;--Cubs reliever, Bob Patterson  after giving up a game winning home run in 1996.	2000-01-27
US	51749393	R258D0E7H4O5O2	0805041389	627486957	Tecumseh: A Life	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Interesting, but Heavy Reading	My knowledge of Tecumseh has been limited to what I have seen in a school filmstrip/tape.  This book is well researched and gives a thorough description of Tecumseh's efforts to unite the various Indian tribes in an  effort to keep their land from the advancing whites.  The Battle of  Tippicanoe against Wm. Henry Harrison is covered as is The War of 1812 in  which Tecumseh allied himself with the British to advance the Indians'  cause in stemming the tide against the United States.  The entire book  seems to be one battle after another, and I guess that's the way it was for  the Indians in a futile effort to keep their land.  Tecumseh's brother, The  Prophet, is also covered and they appear to be two complete opposites.  Tecumseh is eventually killed in battle in Ontario during The War of 1812,  but he certainly has to get an &quot;A&quot; for effort in trying to unite  the Indian tribes in their common cause of keeping their land.  Their is a  lot of information in the book, and at times, it gets somewhat long.  However, the fact that I gave the book 4 stars instead of 5 is not the  fault of the book.  It would be because my background on the subject was  nill when I started.	2000-01-27
US	51749393	R1QO2K26TOI3ZQ	1886348030	496450986	We Had 'Em All the Way: Bob Prince & His Pittsburgh Pirates	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The Prince of Pittsburgh	To veteran fans the title can suggest only one thing:  Bob Prince, The Gunner, who did the broadcast of the Pittsburgh Pirates from the 1950's  through 1975.  You don't have to be a fan of the Buccos to enjoy this book,  but it helps to be familiar with Prince as he rooted unashamedly for his  beloved Bucs.  Like other announcers, he had his pet phrases such as  &quot;We have a bug on the rug.&quot;  &quot;You can kiss it goodbye.  Home  run!&quot;  &quot;Let's spread some chicken on the hill with Will.&quot;  And, of course, at the end of a close game in which the Pirates were  victorious, &quot;We had 'em allll the way.&quot;  Bob was Pittsburgh's  answer to Harry Caray.  He was colorful, controversial, and a people  person.  Most importantly, to me, Bob was a giver of himself to others, and  I think it is exciting to know that we go through our life not knowing how  we helped someone in some way.  An incident that may be totally  insignificant to us in behalf of someone else, may have a profound effect  on the life of the other person.  We live in the memories of our friends,  and The Gunner touched the lives in a positive way of those he came in  contact.  To those of you not familiar with the Prince of Pittsburgh, you  missed out.  He will always be a treasure to the city of Pittsburgh, and to  those who follow the game of baseball.  The book is over 400 pages long and  full of colorful anecdotes such as the following when he and his wife Betty  were going to go out one evening.  Bob said, &quot;Betty, your stockings  are all wrinkled.&quot;  Betty replied, &quot;Bob, I'm not wearing any  stockings.&quot;  Another from relief pitcher ElRoy Face&quot;  &quot;I  remember one game at St. Louis.  I threw a forkball down and away and  Musial hit it over the right field roof.  And I think I'd been 21 innings  without giving up a run and we lost the ballgame on that, a good pitch.  After the game I'm sitting at my locker and Murtaugh, who had this dry  sense of humor, comes in and slaps me on the back and says, 'Relief  pitcher, my ass!'&quot;  Finally, here is a great quote I would like to  share with you from the book.  &quot;When you were born, you cried and the  world rejoiced. Live your life in such a manner that when you die the world  cries and you rejoice.&quot;--Old Indian Sayingr, comes in and slaps me on the back and says, 'Relief  pitcher, my ass!'&quot;  Finally, here is a great quote I would like to  share with you from the book.  &quot;When you were born, you cried and the  world rejoiced. Live your life in such a manner that when you die the world  cries and you rejoice.&quot;--Old Indian Saying	2000-01-17
US	51749393	RWC1RVUQBZC2N	0809227711	467916523	Tales from the Ballpark: More of the Greatest True Baseball Stories Ever Told (Baseball Tales)	Books	2	4	7	N	N	I'm Trying to be Generous with Two Stars	I guess I enjoy heavier reading in baseball books than what this book offers.  It can be read in one sitting because it is easy reading and short.  I have read some of these stories elsewhere and frankly I didn't  find them to be terribly funny.  The story told by Ted Power on missing the  boating accident that claimed the lives of Steve Olin and Tim Crews and  seriously injured Bob Ojeda and how it changed Power's life was the best  one in the book.  I guess a teen ager would find this book more  interesting, but I enjoy more historical books on the game.  My bookcases  are filled with baseball books, but this one I will donate to my local high  school library.	2000-01-16
US	51749393	R2FMLUS9XOMXOP	0684844184	69350065	When Pride Still Mattered: A Life of Vince Lombardi	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	THE BEST OF THE BOOKS ON THE GREEN BAY PACKERS	Though I'm strictly a baseball fan, I did follow Lombardi's Packers in the 1960's.  This is not only the best of the Packer books, including the classic &quot;Instant Replay&quot;, it is one of the very best books I have  ever read on any subject.  I liked it so much I ordered four extra copies  for friends who are Packer fans.  David Maraniss does a thorough job of  research on Lombardi and portrays him as a human being, warts and all,  instead of the icon that some make him out to be. Parts that stood out for  me was how hard he personally took the suspension of Paul Hornung, which  reminded him of Red Blaik's experience with cheating players at West Point.  The continued demand of excellence took it toll on Lombardi, and he really  left the Packer coaching job an exhausted man. The often told Jim Ringo  story of his trade to Philadelphia didn't happen the way many books have  told it.  Lombardi often stressed the importance of God, family, and the  Green Bay Packers in that order, but reality showed the order to be God,  the Green Bay Packers, and family last.  His immediate family suffered and  his own children felt he was more affectionate with children of his players  than he was with them.  One also gets the feeling that he wasn't really  disappointed with the showing of the Phil Bengston Packers, feeling that  the slipage of the Packers was due to his not being there.  Anecdotes of  others notables such as Otto Graham, Packer announcers Ray Scott and Tony  Canadeo, George Wilson, in addition to the Packer players make this a  simply outstanding book to add to your library.  Want to know how the Super  Bowl got its name?  It's an interesting story and it's here in the book.  You can order the book here from Amazon for half the price you would pay in  a book store. This book is one for your permanent library.	2000-01-14
US	51749393	R1BZ6L896TZ3JN	0803279620	241663309	Baseball As I Have Known It	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Fred Lieb is A True Hall of Famer	Fred Lieb knew the players he talks about personally.  Anything written by Fred Lieb about baseball is coming from a true authority on the subject.  Baseball has a history unlike any other sport.  No other sport can touch  it, and in reading about it from Fred Lieb you are getting it from a true  master.  Do yourself a favor.  Buy the book.	2000-01-10
US	51749393	R3D0W4KMHNY1Y1	0306806754	772712305	As Thousands Cheer: The Life Of Irving Berlin	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Wonderful Book About A Great American	I enjoyed Bergreen's book about Irving Berlin as I did his book on Al Capone.  To think that all these great songs came from one man simply boggles the mind.	2000-01-08
US	51749393	R3RLUC9BH06DE5	1582610363	682275125	59: Summer of the Sox: The Year the World Series Come to Chicago	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Nostalgic Reading	I rated the book &quot;only&quot; three stars, but, then, I'm a tough grader.  I enjoyed reliving the '59 Pale Hose season even though I'm a Tigers' fan.  I found it interesting that Bill Veeck made some unfortunate  trades following the '59 season that he felt would enable him to repeat as  champs again in 1960.  Traded away were such future stars as Earl Battey,  John Callison, Barry Latman, Don Mincher, John Romano, and Norman Cash.  In  exchange veterans such as Roy Sievers, Minnie Minoso, and Gene Freese were  brought to Chicago.  These were players who were on the twilight side of  the hill, while those dealt away were on the morning side of the mountain.  The author, probably correctly, says that these trades were made by Veeck  because he felt he didn't have much time left because he suspected he had  cancer when his problem was a weakened blood vessel near the brain.  In any  case, Veeck wanted to win now and the let the future take care of itself.  I recommend the book to you regardless if you are a White Sox fan or not.	1999-12-28
US	51749393	R19H4JNITQYMS1	0684854511	599747335	Where They Ain't: The Fabled Life and Untimely Death of the Original Baltimore Orioles, the Team That Gave Birth to Modern Baseball	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	American Social History	Baseball hasn't changed much over the past 100 years.  Players and owners still wrangle with one another with the latter claiming the former are overpayed.  This is more than the story of the Orioles of the 1890's.  It  is also about the beginning of the success of the Dodgers and Giants and  the beginning of the New York Yankees when the Baltimore franchise was  moved to New York in 1903 to become the Highlanders.  Rich colorful  characters such as Willie Keeler, John McGraw, Joe Kelley, Hughie Jennings,  and others populate this book when you played with injuries because you  were encouraged to &quot;take it like an old Oriole.&quot;  Baseball  historian Fred Lieb wrote a book entitled &quot;The Baltimore Orioles&quot;  many years back about this subject, and it is with a great deal of thanks  that I express to both him and Burt Solomon, the author of &quot;Where They  Ain't&quot; for bringing American social history alive for us to enjoy.  There is more to American history than wars, treaties, and presidents.  Run, don't walk, to your nearest bookstore and buy this book.  You can  thank me later.  This book is an easy five stars.	1999-12-28
US	51749393	R1NJ14TUL8DQCF	0878332332	164487538	Where's Harry?: Steve Stone Remembers 25 Years with Harry Caray	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The Harry Caray We All Know and Love	Thanks to Steve Stone for sharing his stories about Harry Caray with us.  For those fans who know him from only his Cubs' years, should have heard him during the 1960's when he was broadcasting for those great Cardinals'  teams.  Harry was yelling, &quot;Cardinals Win! Cardinals Win!&quot; long  before he came to the Cubs.  This was the real Harry as a broadcaster.  Harry had an ego that got in the way sometimes as Jack Buck would agree  with Steve Stone.  Harry, as Jack said, &quot;Always had to make the big  call.&quot;  Steve couldn't even announce a game cancellation without a  poke in the ribs from Harry so he could announce it himself.  If there was  a story in the book that bothered me, it was the one about former Cubs'  broadcaster, Josh Lewin, telling Harry about how much his late grandmother  enjoyed Harry's broadcasting.  Harry's reply to him in an ignoring fashion  was disturbing and thoughtless.  However, as someone wrote years ago,  &quot;If you lack the tickets to see the Cards, you can listen in your own  back yards.  And the greatest sounds, no ifs or buts, is to hear Harry  Caray going nuts.&quot;	1999-10-05
US	51749393	R36I6WGPPT6N0L	1581820135	677223531	Return to the Scene of the Crime: A Guide to Infamous Places in Chicago	Books	3	18	20	N	N	Errors in the book make me suspect	I enjoyed the book, but I found errors that make me suspect about the rest of the book I wasn't familiar with.  The author lists, at various places, three different dates for the murder of Deanie O'Banion:  November 1st, (P.  158), November 9th (P.95), and November 10th (P. 101).  November 10th, of  course, is correct.  The author also states on P. 102 that Mike Genna was  the one who shot O'Banion.  I'm not sure on this myself, but most sources  I've read state that Frankie Yale was brought in from New York and did the  shooting.  Finally, the author states that Richard Speck never admitted to  killing the eight student nurses in 1966, but on the televised program on  Investigative Reports, a reporter asked Speck if he had killed the nurses  and why, Speck said he did and &quot;it just wasn't their night.&quot;  I  enjoyed the book, but the irritating mistakes made me wonder about the  accuracy about the rest of the book.	1999-10-01
US	51749393	R21N759QA1FI9W	0226730719	444428225	One More Time: The Best of Mike Royko	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Very Enjoyable Book	In reading Mike's articles I was reminded of my favorite sportswriter, the late Jim Murray of the Los Angeles Times.  Unless you know my feelings on Jim Murray, you can't appreciate the high praise this is.  The reason I  didn't give it five stars is a cheap reason, I suppose.  It didn't contain  my all time favorite Royko column, that of a so-called know-it-all Cubs'  fan who had the answers to everything until he was caught in his ignorance  of the Cubs' history.  I'll have to attach the column I have to the book.	1999-08-26
