US	51743517	R8FEAUQ4L7ZXM	0553287893	458314472	Rendezvous with Rama	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very good, but frustrating for lack of info	For those of you who are going to be picking up this book for the first time, there are some things you need to know regarding this book.  To begin with, do not expect any of your questions to be aswered.  This novel serves one purpose:  to keep you guessing and interested in the next novels.  Bear in mind that this novel is well written and easy to read.  But you WILL NOT find any answers to your questions about what is going on.  The main focus is that there is an alien vehicle in our solar system, and we go to visit it to see what it is all about.  Now, don't ask who, what, when, where, and why it was sent, because you will not find out in this novel.<br />Overall, this novel is very good.  It is simple to read, and Clarke seems to be a master of keeping you in suspense.  I should know, because when I was done with this novel I turned and started the sequel.  Therefore, you can say that Clarke's writing ability is masterful since he had me guessing the whole time.  It is not overly complex, and really, this book is simply just setting the table for the future novels.  But, it is highly enjoyable, and should be picked up to really appreciate the wealth and richness that can be found in the rest of the Rama series.	2002-02-28
US	51743517	R2OYZD38NPEB58	0553110845	257407410	House Corrino (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Sets the stage for the Masterpiece.	Dune House Corrino continues the storylines that these two authors created in the first two novels.  Perhaps the best part of this book, is that it ties up some loose ends, and takes you to within fourteen years of the original Dune novel.  Following the completion of this series, I found that Dune was MUCH easier to read, and a lot better the second time around.<br />Dune House Corrino will show how the empire is totally dependant on spice, and it will show how the importance of the Guild surmonts even the Emperor himself.  This novel centers around the Spice War that the Emperor has created.  It is an enjoyable read, and easy to get through.<br />Again, this novel follows the similar paths of writing style as the previous two prequels.  The book is rather enjoyable and easy to follow.  But it lacks the complexity of the original Dune novel.  Perhaps the greatest reason to enjoy this book, is to find out what mentioned in the Dune series, but not elaborated about.  These two authors did a tremendous job in trying to bring these prequels to the level of Dune, but they did not reach the pinnacle in this series.  After reading this novel, it is important to pick up Dune and read it, whether that be for the first or tenth time.  This novel will help ease the complexity of Dune.  I recommend this novel and the previous two in order to partake in the full Dune experience.	2002-02-14
US	51743517	RIVC5BV25ORH3	0553580302	698766211	House Harkonnen (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	House Harkonnen shows the dark side of politics	I read House Harkonnen right after finishing House Atreides, and I found that House Harkonnen had more to offer than the first novel.  Although both books lack the power and writing style as the originial Dune, this novel is very good due to its dark and deceitful side of politics.  It is a great novel because you can finally see why the Atreides were beloved rulers and the Harkonnens were basically slave drivers.<br />The Harkonnens in this novel show their true mettle and viciousness.  Murder, sabotage, and patricide hold no meaning to this family.  On the other hand, compare this house to House Atreides and you will see that these houses have two different methodologies of how to rule their subjects.<br />This second novel in the prequel series is better than the first due to the \\"harsher\\" side of the Harknonnens.  Their immoral behavior makes you want to read on, and see how much worse it can get.  Again, this novel does not have the aura of the original Dune, but the authors have made a valiant attempt to recapture the glimpse of Dune in these novels.  Basically, these novels are history books leading up to the Dune series.  And I must say, these are some of the best histories book leading up to a series that I have read.	2002-01-24
US	51743517	R3VL1WM9J80QE9	0553580272	737842842	House Atreides (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	3	8	N	N	A good prequel to an excellent series.	Duen: House Atreides is an good prequel to the fantastic Dune Series.  However, this novel is not on the same caliber as the orginal Dune series.<br />The novel is easily read, and at times is very fast paced.  Furthermore, it gives historical background for important characters such as Leto Atreides.  Furthermore, it also spells out some interesting questions, such as:  Why is Baron Harkonnen so disgustingly ugly?  It also answers why Duncan Idaho has such contemt for House Harkonnen.  Bare in mind, these are only samples of the interesting aspects of the Dune series brought to life in this novel.<br />These authors should be commended on a tremendous attempt to share the same vision as Frank Herbert.  However, although the vision may be similar, the writing is not.  Herbert displayed a very intelligent backdrop for his characters and his world.  These authors attempt to do the same, but lack the overall depth that Frank had.  Furthermore, the authors for this novel create an environment that is highly intricate that contains the &quot;wheels in wheels&quot; philosophy.  Again, these two should be commended on their attempt to mimic Frank's style.  However, they are a little more forward with explaining the politics in the novel.<br />Overall, those people who loved the original Dune series should pick up this novel.  However, don't expect the excellence that Frank Herbert created.  These two authors are very good, and do a great job, but it just is not quite the original.	2002-01-09
US	51743517	R1T65XV0J668ZN	0441359175	340611713	I Will Fear No Evil	Books	2	8	13	N	N	Interesting Idea Destroyed by Constant Sex Theme	To begin with, this novel started out as a highly intriguing idea.  A man is going to die, and wants to try a radical idea of a brain transplant.  Fortunately for the main character, he has his brain transplanted into his FEMALE secretary following the gnag related murder of the secretary.  Up until this point, it was a rather interesting read about how money CAN buy you anything you want.  But then we go downhill fast.........<br />Once the main character Johann regains his consciousness, he realizes that he is in a female body.  However, he is not alone.  It seems that the &quot;spirit&quot; of the secretary is still housed in this body.  This is where it gets interesting...........<br />Heinlein does his best to blur the lines of heterosexuality and homosexuality in this novel.  The &quot;man&quot; in a woman's body literally goes around kissing both memebers of the sex and sleeps with both members of the sex.  Twisted around the constant sex drive of the individual is the debate about identity.  In this novel, it is found that the brain is the identity of the human, not what the individual looks like.<br />The novel was not interesting because it was centered around sex...............the whole time.  Therefore, I feel is fails to qualify as a real good science-fiction novel  Yes, it is in the future, and yes it had an interesting pretense.  But the basis of the story deals with individual ideas based around who the main character is sleeping with next.  I won't even bring up the issues that are raised with pregnancy covered in this book.  The best bet is to avoid this novel and pick up some of the other novels that Heinlein has written, because this book does not do justice to the author's ability as a creative writer.	2001-11-08
US	51743517	R3V4NQDR4DNFW4	0886774446	505816167	The Madness Season (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Outstanding Sci-fi that raises the bar in this genre	When I started reading this book, I realized that I was reading an outstanding novel in the science-fiction world.  You may ask, &quot;why is this reading outstanding?&quot;  Well, to begin with, the novel starts off with the world being enslaved by an alien race that very little is known about.  The alien race is known as the Tyr, and the have enslaved the human race for hundreds of years.  The  novel thrusts you into this slavery  with no real clue how the humans have become dominated.  Immediately, our main character is taken hostage and we find out that he has been living for hundreds of years.  This leads to the second reason this novel is entertaining.  We find out that Daetrin is a shapechanger.  Now, in my limited experience of reading sci-fi, I have not come across many shapechangers.  The ones that I did have been cast in a negative light.  However, our main character in this novel is going to be our reluctant hero.  The novel is even more enjoyable, because our hero is so reluctant to identify what he really is on the inside.  He has spent years trying to change what he was to be human.<br />The novel is well worth the chance to read.  It has many things to offer in the way of excitement and hidden mystery.  Overall, the book should be read, and you will enjoy it!	2001-09-05
US	51743517	R1YPBYXSGFDBRI	0812532988	708369507	Earthborn (Homecoming)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A bad closure for the series.	This is novel five of the Homecoming Series.  And unfortunately, it is the worst one.  While I was looking for a great conclusion following the fourth novel, what I received is a totally different thing.<br />Perhaps the most important thing is that the characters Card worked so hard to create in the first four novels don't exist anymore, except for one.  I was flabbergasted to see that these characters did not play a role in this novel.<br />The second thing I did not care for was the fact that too much time has passed between the fourth and fifth novel.  When the fourth book ended, there were many questions as to how life would change following the exodus by Nafai.  But, we are left examining what occured hundreds of years following the exodus.<br />One of the positives of this novel is that there is some great social problems found in this novel.  There are examples of slavery, and male chauvenism.  I believe that Card does his best to destroy these two topics and shows how society should live.<br />This novel is not what I expected.  It fails as a great concluding chapter in the homecoming series.  If all else, avoid reading this novel, because it might destroy the image that you have created in the first four novels.	2001-04-18
US	51743517	R35NNDJPLL1OQG	0812532961	246316332	Earthfall: Homecoming: Volume 4 (Homecoming Saga)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Outstanding novel....and the last good one	Earthfall is perhaps the best novel of the Homecoming Series.  Sadly, it is the last good novel in the series due to the poor production in the last novel.<br />But....back to this one.  This novel has it all.  There is action and hatred in the early part of the story on the starship.  Battle lines have been drawn, and sides have been chosen.  Death is a distinct possibility between some of the family members.  Some of the scenes in the early part of this novel are very intense and descriptive.  You can almost feel the emotion come out of the pages.  It leads to some interesting times and some spiteful feelings.<br />Once the starship reaches Earth, things become very interesting.  The humans are caught in the middle of a battleground that has been going on for years.  Unfortunately, these two creatures are in need of one another.  Family ties are now permantely broken, and now Earth creatures are also picking sides.  Murder will occur, and certain key people will have their spirits broken.  Revenge and hatred are found in the humans and the creatures they communicate with.  There is also a lot of science to be found, and new flora to locate.  Card does an excellent job creating a &quot;new&quot; Earth, complete with ignorant humans on the surface.<br />Perhaps the greatest letdown occurs at the end.  Finally, the family has split into two.  You will see what direction the members will take.  But you won't know anything else.  The final novel fails to pick up right where this leaves off.  So enjoy this book, and come to your own conclusions as to what happens next!	2001-04-18
US	51743517	RMQUZKK3W139K	0812532635	247851703	The Ships of Earth (Homecoming Saga)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The pressure is mounting, and the tide is turning.	Hatred, jealousy, envy, and conspiracy to murder are found in this novel......and the problem is that everybody involved is family!!  This novel represents the third novel in the Homecoming series.  And this novel turns the heat up in the brewing family feud.<br />Card does an excellent job in this novel of creating a strenous situation in Nafai's family.  By the end of the novel, the blows will fall, and one person will be the victor.  Card's ability to create complex characters is evident in this novel and thought provoking.<br />Another great part of this story is the history we learn when an individual finds the spaceships to earth.  Now that they are almost going to Earth, pressure mounts, and a leader is needed.  Who will it be?<br />On the downside of this, a lot of time has passed in this novel.  Due to the time difference, it is hard to keep straight which parents have which children.  I kept refering to the front pages to see who sired whom.<br />Overall, this book is a great addition to the series.  It is well written, and has some great character development.  Pressure is mounting in the family, and the ending is awesome.  I would recommened this novle to anyone.	2001-04-18
US	51743517	RW0N0GPWORHGC	0812532619	641114031	The Call of Earth (Homecoming #2) (Homecoming Saga)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	keeps the good series moving.	This second novel of the Homecoming Series picks up right where the first one stopped.  However, a key addition to this novel is the outside force of the warrior Moozh.  Now, Moozh is seizing a golden opportunity in which to overthrow Bascilica.  However, Moozh thinks that he is going against everything the Oversoul has in mind for him, but little does he know the true story.  He will be shocked by the end of the novel, and his surprise will bring certain characters full circle in their life history.<br />This novel is just like the first one, in that the characterization is excellent, and the pace is fast.  The novel kept me intrigued from the get-go, and also added more tension between certain members in the family.  You will be able to see the pressure building that will eventually lead to a climax in later novels.  In comparison to other novels in the series, this one shows the most unique aspects of the series.  There is interaction between different cultures, and you catch a glimpse of life on Harmony.  Furthermore, the reader gets to see part of the whole plan designed by the Oversoul to bring Volemak's family together.  Enjoy this and get ready for the next one!	2001-04-06
US	51743517	R2WUNAAYESTQEO	0312862881	640081898	1: The Final Encyclopedia, Volume One of Two	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A good book that seems to parallel another classic	When I read the Final Encyclopedia, I realized that it is very similar in theme with that of the novel Dune.  First off, you have a character who does not know that they will be the ulitimate leaders in society.  Furthermore, you have a vast array of societies that must be brought together.  Throw in a couple of genetic programs and some family secrets, and you have two parallel books.<br />But, this novel does have its own identity and style.  For one thing, it has one of the greatest projects humans have ever built in the Final Encyclopedia.  Yes, the book is long, and boring at times.  But the overall picture shows the sociological impact that is present in this novel.  You may want to read the other books in this series, because then you can see the real Hal Mayne in this novel  This appears on the surface as a pure military novel, but drive a little deeper, and you will see this is a war of the minds.  A great analogy of a chess match written in a book.<br />The book had great character development, especially in Hal Mayne.  Furthermore, the universe that Dickson creates is unique and interesting.  It can be slow and boring at times, but yet at other times it is highly intellectually stimulating.  Don't just read the surface value of this novel, dive into the symbolism and meaning behind what is shown.  This novel may not appeal to a person due to its size alone, but I must admit that it is a crowning achievement for a unique universe in the science fiction world.  Pick it up and read it!	2001-03-28
US	51743517	R3Q37W2XNNC9SQ	0812532597	755744029	The Memory of Earth (Homecoming)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Can't go wrong with this Card novel.	Orson Scott Card made me an instant fan with Ender's game, Speaker for the Dead, and Xenocide.  As a result, I was not hesistant to pick up this novel.  Once I picked the book up, I knew I would not be unhappy.  <br />From the beginning, Card shows his creativity.  Earth has been dead for 40 million years due to human destruction.  Now, a computer resides over the colony world of Harmony, trying to prevent the same fate as EArth.  But the computer is dying.  Because Harmony will fail, this computer, called the Oversoul is trying to save certain individuals from a doomed city.<br />The family structure in this novel is nothing new; humans have seen this complicated society structure before. But what is interesting is that women rule the city here.  Men are nothing, and must renew a marriage contract every year.  It can be with the same women, but it does not have to be.<br />The Oversoul monitors all of society from the satellites above.  It has now chosen who it wants to take to Earth.  These will be his &quot;messengers&quot;.  Due to this style, you can see the obvious religious symbolism in the story.  So, yes, there is some religious symbolism.  I enjoyed the novel more from the societal structure and dysfunctional family that it is centered around.  There are some different individuals in this novel, almost anything you can think of can be found in at least ONE individual in the whole family.  Enjoy this novel, because it is giving the background for future novels.	2001-03-28
US	51743517	R3R5P2XCKEQWM	0812504038	364247197	The Spirit of Dorsai (Dorsai/Childe Cycle)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	3.5 stars for two good stories.	Unlike other Dorsai novels, this novel contains some real good short stories, and has much more in the way of character development to offer.  This novel centers around the third Amanda Morgan, and what she basically does, is tell two stories.  Now, the first story is about the original Amanda Morgan, and is quite interesting.  It goes into great detail about how an elderly woman stopped a whole army of soldiers.  Does it have a real puropse in the Dorsai universe?  Not necessarily.  But it is a pretty good short story.<br />The second short story deals with Ian and Kensie Graehme.  Now this is a unique story, because it details how the one brother dies, and what happens in the aftermath.  You get to take a look at how efficient the Dorsai soldiers are, and how they place duty and honor above all else.  This short story was neat, because it showed another example of the superior mental and physical ability the Dorsai possess.<br />Overall, this book does not have a lot of importance to the Dorsai series, but it does shed some light on prior history to the Dorsai world.  The two stories are interesting, and there is enough character development to make the story more interesting. Perhaps the best part in this book happens to take place if you own an old trade paper version of the book.  The book is filled with some outstanding artwork that needs to be seen to be appreciated.  If by some odd chance you come across one of these old books, pick it up and enjoy from a literary sense and an artistic sense.	2001-02-08
US	51743517	R392J2KGMN48GN	0812504003	824348646	Soldier, Ask Not: A Novel in The Childe Cycle (Tor Science Fiction)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Just an average book	Dickson takes us back to his Dorsai universe in this novel, but overall, this novel is just another average book with glimpses of raw emotion.  The most important part of this novel is the fact that we get a glimpse of the powerful Final Encyclopedia, and we get to meet the originator of this wonder.  The main character begins to understand his unnatural powers of vision while on tour of the Final Encyclopedia.<br />It is here, that Tam realizes he can see the whole picture as to his future, and the future of other cultures.  Tam decides to become a newsman, and become prominent in his field.  However, on a routine sweep of a battle for reporting purposes, Tam views the death of his brother-in-law in an act of cold-blooded murder.  At this point, Tam becomes a little more cryptic, dark, and motivated to a devasting end.  Tam's main goal is to wipe a culture out of the universe.<br />Now, this novel presents many unique sociological and psychological issues.  But overall, the plot is very bland.  There is not much in the way of exciting reading found in this novel.  Again, as in other Dorsai novels, you can view bits and pieces of the super-warriors in the Dorsai.  But the plot is not a real mover-and-shaker.  I would recommend that you read this novel only to say you read all of the books in the Dorsai series, beyond that, there is no real outstanding reason to pick up this book.	2001-02-08
US	51743517	R1YUPRTM1D93DM	0425103552	668211791	Marine Sniper: 93 Confirmed Kills	Books	5	59	65	N	N	An exceptional biography of a legend	Although I lack military experience, I must say that this novel is perhaps one of the greatest military biographies I have read. Perhaps the reason this novel is so enjoyable, is because you have absolutely no idea what story will be told next.  Furthermore, if you are like me, you possbily never even heard the name Carlos Hathcock before.<br />This biography was very enjoyable, because it kept me on the edge of my seat.  The personal stories of Hathcock, and eyewitness accounts are amazing.  I can't fathom an individual who can shoot a gun accurately at 2,000 yards.  But this novel gets you in close and personal with a person who lived by the motto, &quot;one shot, one kill&quot; at a distance of over 1,000 yards.<br />Henderson, the author, does a great job of describing Hathcock, and his missions by using expert witnesses and documents.  Merely page through the bibliography to see the amount of research that Henderson did for this novel, and you will realize that this book must be pretty close to the absolute truth.<br />Overall, this book is fantastic, due to the missions that are explained in here.  Henderson makes you feel right at home with this legend, and creates a lively image on each mission.  As a result, this novel is easy to read, because it is a page-turner.  Henderson also does an excellent job as to explain the mentality of Hathcock towards the Marines and towards the art of sniping.  I never realized that a person who is a sniper must have a unique mentality in order to do this job.  And Henderson shows that sniping is not for everyone.<br />The novel also immortalizes Hathcock as a hero and a leader.....as it should.  Hathcock was at the top of his field, and literally designed the manual for this new class in the military.  But his ideas have found there way into SWAT teams, and police forces through the world.  Hathcock was a hero, who ultimately paid the price for his bravery in the Vietnam war.  This novel is a must read for all individuals, not just the military type person!	2001-02-07
US	51743517	R1SR3JRM7LNFCH	0425176606	211782980	Silent Warrior: The Marine Sniper's Story Continues	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A triumph for all military veterans, and Hathcock	A &quot;Silent Warrior&quot; is a sequel to the novel &quot;Marine Sniper.&quot;  Coming from this non-military reader, I must admit that the novel is excellent.  I believe that it does the job in portraying both Carlos Hathcock and John Burke as exemplory Marines.<br />The stories that are told about Hathcock are excellent and scary.  It goes into detail as to how his sniper squads would go on platoons and how they were trained to be snipers. The novel was very informative and awesome.  The writer does a nice job of showing the personal history of Hathcock and describing what he did in Vietnam.  The writer also takes an intricate approach by writing what the thought process was of Hathcock's eventual victim.  I thought this was a unique way of building tension in the novel.<br />Perhaps the best part of the novel was Henderson's writings on what happened to John Burke.  I think that he has done the Burke family proud due to his account following research as to what happened on the day Burke died.  His story would make an combat veteran proud to be in the military.<br />Overall the book is great.  It was interesting enough to be a page-turner, but it was also informative enough so that it was not boring.  The short stories are great, and I would highly recommend this novel for anybody who has been in the military, or anybody who wants to be a sniper.  Because Hathcock wrote the rules on being a sniper, so learn from the best.	2001-01-20
US	51743517	R3FFAI760ZKKR5	0812545303	450247323	Necromancer (Childe Cycle)	Books	3	4	7	N	N	An Average book for the Childe Cycle Series	Alright.....the book starts off around the main character of Paul.  Paul has just gotten a job in a mining company, and on the first day, he ends up losing his arm.  Now during this time period, humans have the ability to regrow limbs and other body parts.  However, the graft for a new arm has failed on three different times for Paul.  As a result, he is being seen by various pyschologists.<br />One day, Paul finds out that it is possible to grow a new arm under the &quot;Alternate Laws&quot; described by the Chantry Guild.  The Chantry Guild has the motto &quot;DESTRUCT&quot; and was founded by one William Blunt.  Walter Blunt has a vision of the future that will include the destruction of all technology, and a main player in this future is Paul.  Paul must then make decisions in regards to his future in the Chantry Guild to determine the future outcome of the human race.  Paul's decisons will lead society down a path of his choice.<br />This novel is fairly complex to follow at times, but should be an easy read that can be finished quickly.  There is not a lot of character development except for a few main participants.  Further character complexes could have been useful in determining the ending and what will happen.  But not enough information is dealt with these characters who will be important in the future human society.  It is an average read that could have been spiced up a bit to make it further entertaining and interesting.	2001-01-20
US	51743517	R29BOA31QSIRUP	034537942X	42325204	Entoverse	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Fails to deliver like the previous 3 novels.	Entoverse is the fourth novel following the Giant's Trilogy.  Like the previous three, the same characters can be found throughtout.  Also, there is a great deal of scientific research done by the main characters.  But unlike the previous three novels, this novel fails to maintain interest and can be confusing.<br />First off, the novel takes you back to Jevlen, following the &quot;Pseudowar&quot; between the Thuriens and the Jevlenese.  The supercomputer JEVEX has been shut down....or so all non-Jevelense think.  In harsh reality, JEVEX is still running at a small rate, but there is a totally different world living in its system.  The author has created a new world for us to explore, however it turns out that this world does not follow the laws of physics in our universe.  To make it even more confusing, it seems that this world is merely just a computer generated pattern designed by the Jevlenese.  To complicate things even more, the inhabitants of this &quot;new&quot; world, are taking over the bodies of our universe.<br />Now, don't get me wrong, I am one for all types of science fiction and new ideas.  As a matter of fact, I think unique ideas make a science fiction novel.  But this idea has gone too far.  The novel becomes confusing because this world is run through a computer process.  Yes, it is a new idea, but the idea has been taken to far.  In fact, this novel does not have the quality writing and suspense as found in the previous three novels.  It seems this novel was written just to be written, lacking purpose and further muddying the waters.  I do not recommend this novel, as a matter of fact, if you read the previous three novels, you might want to stop there, because this one could leave you highly disappointed.	2001-01-05
US	51743517	RMBPI93F82DD3	0441492991	873742088	Lost Dorsai	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Another Dorsai novel	This is another Dorsai novel that further follows the image created by Dickson of a superior military warrior.  This novel centers around the Dorsai warrior Corunna El Mann.  He is supervising the transport of an important dignitary to a planet that is undergoing some internal conflict.  When El Mann gets to the planet, political chaos occurs.<br />It seems that the soldiers that were trained to defend a fort have deserted to help the revolutionaries.  As a result, this leaves a handful of people left to defend this fortress.  There are a total of five Dorsai, one of which is opposed to using weapons.  This person is named Michael, and he is in charge of the band.<br />As the days unfold, this novel is really a book centered around the development of characters.  There is not much action going on this this novel, except for the final battle scenes.  This novel acutally plays more on in the internal conflict of one individual who battles what his morals are, and what his training would have him do.  As a result, the book is a great study in socio-ethical conflicts located within an individual.  It is easy reading, without a lot of intense descriptions.  Overall, it was just an average novel.<br />The book also contained the short story &quot;Warrior&quot;.  The story is very easy to read, and should be used in conjunction with other Dorsai novels.  The main purpose of this story is to develop the character of Ian Graeme, and further solidify his image.  Again, this is easy reading, but you catch a glipse of the unique and intelligent thinking processes that Ian contains.	2000-12-21
US	51743517	R37DO8QD6MSG61	0812503988	421453401	Dorsai (Childe Cycle)	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Has greater potential	Dorsai is a novel centered around the character Donal Graeme, who happens to be a member of an elite military force known as the Dorsai.  The Dorsai are highly respected and can be considered mercenaries, because they will take any contract.<br />Due to this info, it can be expected that this novel is a military novel.  Now, there have been some military novels that are excellent, or even considered a classic.  But, this book falls very short of such potential.  First off, there is not a lot of information regarding the history of the Dorsai, or what kind of training the Dorsai undertake that makes them the most phenomenal power in the galaxy.  Furthermore, the story centers around Donal, but yet it jumps numerous times into the future.  For instance, a chapter could end, and at the start of the next chapter it is 3 years later, but you have no clear cut version of what happened.  As a result, the quality of the book has been deteriorated by this fact.<br />The book is very easy to read, and simple to get through.  However, Dickson could have spent more time elaborating the Dorsai or this vast sprawling galaxy that he has greated.  This is why the novel has greater potential.  Yes, it introduces parts for the series, but this novel is almost unnecessary.  It is great trepidation that I would recommend this novel due to its lack of specific content.  The overall rating of 3 stars is definetly generous, and it is recommended that you proceed with caution on reading this book.	2000-12-12
US	51743517	R35G8FBD6ZKADH	0345388852	979772647	The Giants Novels (Inherit the Stars, The Gentle Giants of Ganymede, and Giants' Star)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wow...three great novel in one...this deserves 4.5 stars.	Ok, this novel is three novels in one that must be taken as a collection, because all of the novels are connected in some way, so lets start right off....<br />INHERIT THE STARS This novel starts off as your basic science fiction novel, until a discovery is made that leads to a unique plot and science fiction idea.  It seems in the exploration of the moon, humans have come across a body located in a space suit that is dated to be 50,000 years old.  This is a unique idea located in the science fiction genre.  As a result, it leads to an excellent novel.  The novel continues on this basis of a human that is 50,000 years old.  It is neat to see how things are deduced by palentologists and scientists, from what little information that have available.  The novel is outstanding because it shows where humans supposedly came from, and shows a new idea of the original  structure of the solar system.  Furthermore, during this novel, the reader gets introduced to an alien civilization that is found on the moon Ganymede, that will lead for the basis of subsequent novels.  This is an excellent intro the next books.<br />THE GENTLE GIANTS OF GANYMEDE This novel start off where the last novel ended.  In here, the humans still have many questions about the Ganymedes and the human home planet of Minerva.  The Ganymedes lived 25 million years ago, but the humans have come face to face with them for the first time.  Again, this novel is excellent and rather intriguing.  The plot keeps the reader highly entertained and interested.  The characters are well developed, and the complexity of this novel adds more value to information learned from the previous novel.  The Ganymedes are an interesting alien race that is fully described in both social and biological terms.  The author does a brilliant job of creating an alien race and describing this race in such a fashion to keep the reader flabbergasted and intrigued.<br />GIANT'S STAR Again, this novel starts off where the the last one ends.  The Ganymedes are on there way to Giant's Star, when the humans get an interesting message from an unknown alien source.  When the humans figure out what to do, they are introduced to an alien culutre that is technologically superior to them, and is basically run by a computer.  It is here that the humans learn that they have been watched for many years, but have had false reports on them.   The novel is a technological wonder.  In here, the reader will be taken from a new place to a new place, simply by a computer.  However, the reader will also see the dark side of human nature in the appearance of the Jevlen's, a human race from outside the solar system.  The novel typically is centered on deceipt and deception between three different groups, the humans, the Thuriens, and the Jevlens.  Overall, the deceipt and cunning makes for an interesting tale.  However, the ending is a bombshell that puts this whole trilogy in perspective.  Again, the ending starts the beginning.  These three novels are excellent and are highly recommended to any science fiction reader.	2000-12-04
US	51743517	R23RHW9A6T93R1	0553297090	154082397	Timescape	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Great Idea, but too long, and too much info.	O.k., most people in this world who are interested in science fiction have come across the idea of time travel, or sending messages back in time.  The idea itself is rather intriguing and ALWAYS leads to the eventuall discussion of paradoxes, and what would happen if John F. Kennedy was not assassinated.<br />This novel centers around this idea of sending messages back in time.  To begin, the story starts in 1998, and the world is about to die, literally.  The earth can no longer support any plants or animals, and the seas are over-run with algal blooms.  In a last ditch attempt, the scientists have attempted to send messages into the past in order to alter the future.  The messages are sent back to 1963 through a physiscs technique that is too complicated to explain.  The messages are received, and that is where all the problems start as to what they scientists in 1963 actually received.<br />This whole story line is actually an excellent idea, and is backed up through the use of science.  However, the novel distracts from the overall success by containing useless information.  The author goes to great lenghts to describe the psyche and social tendencies of all the major scientists involved.  In some cases, the author describes the interactions of family members of the scientists who play a severly limited role in the novel.  As a result, there is pointless material located in the novel.  If the novel would have simply stuck to the above storyline, it definetly would have rated higher.  However, with the influx of superfulous information, the novel can seem tedious and boring at points.<br />On a positive note, the novel ends well by explaining what has happened and why there are no real paradoxes.  A new future has been created, and nobody knows what will happen.	2000-11-10
US	51743517	R40AUFFKRNLX0	055357325X	740351727	The Seventh Gate: A Death Gate Novel, Volume 7	Books	3	2	3	N	N	3 1/2 stars.  Why or why must this series end?????	Finally, the last novel of the Death Gate Series.  This novel picks up right where the last one ended.  Xar has now taken a wounded Haplo to Aberrach, and Alfred is now missing.  Meanwhile, the serpents have led an attack on the Final Gate in hopes of closing the Labyrinth for all of time.<br />Alfred is later found by Hugh the Hand and Marit.  Once he has been found, the trio travel to Aberrach in hopes of saving Haplo from Xar.  When the trio gets to Aberrach, things really start tyo get interesting.  Xar's main goal in the whole novel is to get Alfred to take him to the Seventh Gate.  However, Alfred has no desire to do anything along these lines, even though Xar is leveraging Alfred with Haplo.<br />How and why the characters end up in the Seventh gate is a complex tale that is important to the whole novel.  The plot is always in full motion; there isn't a chapter that does not have something going on in it.<br />However, this book does not rate as highly as the other books.  The main reason that this is so, is because there is simply not enough to the story.  The novel feels like it was written to tie up lose ends and it lacks the quality of the previous books in the series.  Overall, the series was phenomenal, but this book leaves the reader depressed, because you simply want MORE.  The characters were ingenious, but the ending leaves you hanging.  The reason the ending leaves you hanging, is because you have a sense of a new beginning, and no idea what is in store.<br />Weis and Hickman did a tremendous job throughout this series.  Surely, if they decided to add to this series the additions would be welcomed and desired.  Don't let the last book diminish the over-all excellence of the series.	2000-11-03
US	51743517	R3SOZV57LIZ79G	0553567713	165861595	Into the Labyrinth (A Death Gate Novel)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent!!!  Finally, you get to see the Labyrinth!	This novel is the sixth book of the Death Gate Series.  And, it is quite possibly one of the most complex, intense, enjoyable reads of this series.<br />Haplo is joined by Marit, his former lover, and Hugh the Hand as he travels through Arianus.  Marit has been sent by Xar to kill Haplo, and Hugh the Hand has been sent by the Kenkari to kill Haplo also.  But, the trio end up back in the Labyrinth, where Alfred is waiting for them.<br />Once Marit and Haplo realize where they are, they are even more stunned to find that they are at the BEGINNING of the Labyrinth. The four party memebers decide that they must try and complete the Labyrinth, since it is the only way out.<br />After narrowly escaping the first gate, the group comes across something that the Patyrns have never seen before in the Labyrinth; a city.  Once in the city, Alfred and the gang learn some lessons on what happened to the Sartan sent to the Labyrinth, and more importantly, what a Serpent Mage is.<br />This novel is unreal, and fast paced.  The reader finally gets to experience the triumph and tragedy associated with the Labyrinth.  There are new characters to the series, and further character development of the old characters.  The novel is a page turner, and keeps you interested from the beginning.  Perhaps the greatest part of this novel is the battle that takes place at the end of the book, when the Labyrinth decides to attack a city.  With the ending of this novel, you will want to RACE to get the final novel in this series!!	2000-11-02
US	51743517	RWLC5LTNYLFX1	0553563696	580151766	The Hand of Chaos (Death Gate Cycle, Book 5)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Alas, not like book 4, but important none the less.....	Ah, the fifth book of the Death Gate Series.  This novel has a tough act to follow because of the Serpent Mage and Fire Sea.  Although it lacks what the previous two has, this novel is important none the less.<br />In the novel, the chaotic serpents have found their way into the Nexus and the remaining three worlds due to the fact that the Death Gate was opened.  Once the serpents have entered the new worlds, a whole tangled scheme of possibilities now exists.  The serpents are talking to Xar, Haplo, and the elves located on Arianus.  The main purpose of the serpents is to spread their chaos, and feed off of people's fear.<br />The novel does not contain Alfred at all, and because of that, the novel lacks some punch.  But, it does revive the career of Hugh the Hand.  Furthermore, Bane plays an important role in this novel as well.  Haplo kind of takes a dejected back seat in this novel, because anything he wants to do will tangle him into a more chaotic web woven by the serpents.<br />The plot in this novel is complex, yet interesting.  The story is told through different viewpoints, mainly those of the dwarves, and Haplo.  However, due to the apperance of the serpents, the potential chaos creates a more interesting novel.  The main question is: Who is aligned with who, and for what purpose?<br />Although this novel contains very few Sartan, and absolutely no Alfred, this novel is needed in the series.  It will be essential  in creating a crescendo in the final two novels.  Don't expect the same enjoyment as the previous two novels, but understand it is necessary for the whole series.	2000-10-27
US	51743517	RM4ZRRFCPNCQ4	0553561405	860381086	Serpent Mage (The Death Gate Cycle, Vol 4)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Another Great Novel in the Death Gate	Serpent Mage takes you to the fourth world of the Death Gate Series.  It takes you to the world of Water, known as Chelstra.  Here, in the beginning of the novel, Alfred finds himself in the crystal tombs of the Sartan.........AND they are still living.  Once Alfred wakes up his fellow Sartan, he realizes that he is talking to the one and only Samah.<br />Samah is the lead Sartan in a council of Sartan that had Sundered the world.  He and his fellow Sartan have been left asleep for thousands of years.  They can not believe the corruption that has taken place on the other worlds.  In due time, Alfred is ostricized by his own Sartan.<br />Haplo has entered the world to find that the saltwater on this world has a debilitating effect on his magic.  He comes across some of the Mensch on this world to find that they are unique here on Chelstra......they are at peace.  However, Haplo comes across some &quot;creatures&quot; that are more evil than the Sartan, and they are the serpents.<br />This novel is excellent due to the complex nature of the whole story.  On one hand, you have the totally evil serpents who thrive off of chaos.  And on the other you have Alfred and Haplo, who are the only ones who truly understand the dreadful power of the serpents.<br />Alfred has finally found his greatest desire, and that is living Sartan.  However, he realizes that he is nothing like the original Sartan.  Unfortunately, Alfred does not have similar opinions as the original council created by Samah.  As a restult, Alfred faces the same punishment by Samah for those Sartan who opposed Samah.  The punishment is stunning, and shocking.<br />Again, this novel is excellent, because you further understand both Alfred and Haplo, and what the whole purpose of the Death Gate is.  It is fast paced, and chaotic in nature, but the enjoyment level is high.  Overall, this novel is very informative  as to what is occuring in the present and the past.  With the addition of the serpents, this shouldleave to a stunning conclusion in this series.	2000-10-24
US	51743517	R3PP29JSRYQT4F	0553295411	618387900	Fire Sea (The Death Gate Cycle, Vol. 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Perhaps the best of the series, but also the most cryptic.	Abarrach.  World of Stone, and the third world to be visited by the Patryn Haplo.  However, on his journey to this third world, he is joined by the Sartan Alfred.<br />Unfortunately, the journey through this world is unexpectedly filled with horror.  Upon this world, are found a few Sartan.  However, these Sartan are nothing compared to what Alfred is used to, and what Haplo has grown to hate.  These Sartan have become twisted; they are more interested in death than in life.  Instead to working to provide a better life, they have become entrenched in necromancy.  Everytime a Sartan dies, they are brought back from the dead three days later.<br />Perhaps the most moving part of this novel, is the fact that Alfred finds out what has happened to all the other Sartan.  It causes him great depression and lack of understanding how something so good can be twisted.<br />Essentially this world is dead, and is on the verge of taking Haplo and Alfred with it.  During their trek through the land, they make an important discovery in a room called the Chamber of the Damned.  It is quite essential to the rest of the series.<br />Overall, this book was highly enjoyable.  The character development was great, because you can actually feel the pain that Alfred has when he realizes what has been going on.  Haplo has also grown a conscience, which only adds to his inner turmoil as to what he should do with Alfred.  The novel can be viewed as cryptic because it is centered around death.  But the importance of this novel to the whole series can not be overlooked.  So far, it has been the best novel of the series.  It also leaves you hanging as to what will happen in later books.  So get the next novel ready when you are done reading this one!	2000-10-18
US	51743517	R3R5MM18B5ZXQT	0553286390	591086816	Dragon Wing (The Death Gate Cycle, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Start to the Death Gate Series	Weis and Hickman created a great novel for the Death Gate Series.  This first novel takes place on Arianus, in which there are three realms(low, middle and high).  In these three realms, the main inhabitants are humans, elves, and dwarves, who are confined to the lower realm.<br />Humans and elves habitate the middle realm, while the dwarves live solely on the lower realm.  In these realms, there are islands of land that float in the air.  There is no land forms found on the ground.  This realm is known as the Realm of Air.<br />The novel starts with the hiring of a human assassin to eliminate a child.  However, in the assassins journey across the middle realm, he also joins party with the butler of the young child.  The butler, assassin, and child end up in the lower realm, where they meet a mysterious human named Haplo.<br />This human is a magician that original walked the world.  However, these magicians were imprisoned in a labyrinth by the Sartan, a more powerful type of wizard.  Haplo has escaped the labyrinth, and has a job of causing chaos in the world.  However, he finds that his mortal enemy, the Sartan, is within his grasp.<br />This is an intriguing novel that starts off very simply, but weaves complexity and detail throughout the novel.  It will keep you turning the page, trying to figure out what is going on.  It is highly enjoyable.	2000-10-01
US	51743517	RYKF3L51UUNUW	0671877968	822733196	Endgame Enigma	Books	3	3	3	N	N	The Cold War meets the future and space......	In the not to distant future Russia has built a space station that is  totally unique and indescribable.  However, prior to the final construction  of the space station, American intelligence has gotten word that the space  station is actually a battle platform that will totally wipe out the  Americans in a nuclear war.<br />Since the Americans are still in a power  struggle with the Russians, they decide to send in two covert spies in  order to find a missing data that will show the space station is not what  it seems.  However, the two Americans are caught and forced into a jail  that is located on the space station.<br />While in prison the Americans find  a way to make contacts to the Americans, but the Russians are still  publically claiming that the space station is just that....a space station.   These two spies must determine the relevance of the space station or have  American face politically humiliation by accusing the Soviets of potential  nuclear battle platforms in space.<br />The novel is pretty simple to get  through, and the plot can be intriguing at times.  But, the novel can also  drag at certain parts.  Overall, the idea is interesting due to the  similarities of the stress during the Cuban Missile Crisis.  Overall, the  book is average, but has an interesting political situation in it.	2000-09-18
US	51743517	R204JOOICHW738	0553562614	445913	Snow Crash	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Snow Crash is good, but can be confusing.	Snow Crash is located in the future that is predominately run by computers.  Hiro is the main star of the novel, and he is a computer hacker.  In the computer world, he is also an expert swordsman.<br />In this  story, there is a computer virus going around the computer world that  affects hackers.  However, the hackers actually suffer biological damage  from this computer virus.<br />Hiro is supposed to find the cause of this  virus with the help of a friend called Y.T.  Hiro will face a big challenge  in stopping this virus, because he finds out that it will affect all of  humanity.<br />The futuristic approach is very interesting, but at times the  novel is really confusing.  The roles of the many franchulates and the  Mafia are quite amusing.  But overall, it is only an average book.	2000-07-17
US	51743517	R2ZPMVYIPIONOZ	0451456181	786892474	Hung Out (Mag Force)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Hung Out wraps up the Mag Force 7 series	Xris and Mag Force 7 have been hired by someone unknown for a mission.  However, right when the mission is to start, Xris is arrestd.......for murdering Dalin Rowan.  Everyone knows this charge is fake....but he gets  sent to jail for another mission....to break the Hung leaders out of Jango.   But Xris must do this by himself, while the rest of the group completes  the mission.  There is a rat in FISA, but who is it, and why do they want  Xris dead?	2000-06-28
US	51743517	R3BFO8EO4LVJON	0451455819	445831641	Robot Blues	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Robot Blues continues a good saga.	Robot Blues is the sequel to The Knights of Black Earth and continues with the mercenary group called Mag Force 7.  Mag Force 7 is led by the cyborg Xris, who once helped to get Dion Starfire to maintain his throne.  In this  novel, the group is hired to steal an ancient robot.  All seems in order,  until the group finds out it was a plot to get one of the most important  robots in the history of the galaxy.  While Xris is trying to complete his  objective, Darlene has attempts at her life......and Xris can't help  her.........	2000-06-11
US	51743517	R3QDQPSTVZZH1D	0451455142	667343382	The Knights of the Black Earth: A Mag Force 7 Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Mag Force 7 wins!	The Knights of Black Earth, takes you back to the Universe of the &quot;Star of the Guardians&quot; series also by Hickman.  This novel focuses on Xris, the part man, part robot mercenary.  Xris has formed a new  mercenary group called Mag Force 7.  Also found in this group are the Loti  Raoul, and the engimatic Little One.<br />Xris has found his long lost partner  back in the days when he was a federal agent.  Xris has a few questions for  his partner regarding his last failed mission as a federal agent.  However,  to get to this partner will be deadly, and cause total chaos to the  universe!	2000-05-18
US	51743517	R2NLCXSA06IGK8	0517119080	444251429	The Losers / High Hunt: Two Complete Novels	Books	3	8	9	N	N	The Losers and High Hunt are not too bad....	&quot;The Losers&quot; is a contemporary novel that stars a man named Rapheal.  Rapheal has all the positive aspects of life; good looks, intelligence, and athleticism.  However, when he goes to college, he rooms  with a man named Damon who represents all the negatives of society.   Shortly after this meeting, Raphael has a severe accident that will forever  change his life.  Raphael moves away, and thinks nothing of his old life  until Damon finds him again.  This novel contains the classical motif of  good versus evil.<br />In &quot;The High Hunt&quot;, the reader is introduced  to a pair of brothers coming from a disfunctional family.  Dan, who is the  younger brother, has just been discharged from the Vietnam war.  With  nothing to do, Dan looks for his older brother Jack, who he has not seen in  years.  Dan is quickly taken in by Jack and Jack's friends.  However,  Jack's friends are not the most &quot;politically correct&quot; friends.  A  hatred grows between some of these friends, which culminates in a hunting  trip high in the mountains.  What happens when guns and hatred mix?  Find  out...it is an entertaining novel that does slip down into the decadence of  society.	2000-05-11
US	51743517	R3NB1TC9Z4QMDT	0553563319	77811210	GHOST LEGION (Star of the Guardians, Vol 4)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Excellent Ending to a Great Series	Dion has ruled for three years since he took back his crown.  Now he is faced with problems in his personal life, along with his professional life.  Dion loves a woman who is not his queen.....and the queen knows about  this.  Dion is also faced with an illegitimate claim to his throne.   However, it seems that &quot;ghosts&quot; are siding with this new deadly  force.  Dion is left to untangle his personal life, and save the galaxy at  the same time.  Who will help Dion if anybody at all?  What will become of  the galaxy with these lethal ghosts?  Join Tusk, Dion, and Kamil in their  climatic struggle for the galaxy.	2000-05-01
US	51743517	R3RBGS9CLH0LPP	0553293605	880134968	King's Sacrifice (Star of the Guardians)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	King' Sacrafice will move you!	King's Sacrafice takes us back to the galaxy with Dion, Sagan and Maigrey.  This novel picks up right where the prequel lets off......it is high paced, and leaves you on the edge of your seat.  Scenes with Abdiel are  very intense, and entertaining.  I loved this novel due to the influx of  new intriguing characters.  See who will finally control the galaxy!   Will  it be Dion?  Or Sagan?  Or Maigrey?  Or a combination of all three?	2000-04-24
US	51743517	RU77FP0UKI984	0553289071	456893105	King's Test (Star of the Guardians)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Keeps the Series Intense	In this novel, the struggle for power continues between Maigrey, Derek Sagan, and Dion Starfire.  However, a new, deadly opponent comes to the surface.  The new opponent is going to try to tear apart the Guardians and  Dion.  However, Maigrey and Sagan have a few tricks up their sleeves!    This novel continues right where the first one ended.  It is fast paced and  highly enjoyable.	2000-04-12
US	51743517	RU9XQK0QG2C	0884046818	894828266	Battlefield Earth: A Saga of the Year 3000	Books	5	7	12	N	N	One of the Best All time	Don't let the author fool you....this novel is EXCELLENT!  The novel's beginning leaves you grasping at straws to figure out what has happened to the planet Earth.  Follow the trail of one man as he meets unknown  environments that he has never experienced, but we all know is just the  husk of our former society.  The novel may drag in the beginning, but once  this book gets moving...it never stops.  This book is a page-turner, and I  highly recommend this novel to any fantasy or sci-fi reader.  But please  don't think this is a scientology novel!	2000-04-07
US	51743517	R24DMMT112MQZC	0553286005	741666569	The Lost King (Star of the Guardians, Vol 1)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good versus Evil....with a twist	The Lost King is a very good novel centering around two individuals who are mind-linked.  These two individuals were part of an elite military corp responsible for the protection of the royal family.  The royal family was killed in a bloody rebellion except for one survior.  The few elite  military people remaining try to hide the existence of this child.   Unfortunately, the one who led the rebellion is a traitor from this elite  group.  These three end up together at the same time and place.  Now the  battle continues as to who will live and who will die.  This is a great  novel that you will definetly enjoy!	2000-04-06
US	51743517	R1WL4W422H4DMU	0886775272	892244184	Black Sun Rising (The Coldfire Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Black Sun is spellbinding from the first page	Black Sun Rising takes you on a rollercoaster ride set up in the prologue of the novel.  In the prologue of the novel, you meet a man who has just sacrificed his family without explanation.  This leads you into the life of  the Hunter, considered the most lethal object on the planet.  During the  novel, he proceeds to go on a journey with a man of religion.  The irony is  that the religion is started by the hunter.  The religious man despises the  Hunter, yet they form a bond that can't be broken.  This book is a  page-turner that is very exciting.	2000-04-04
US	51743517	R2XPJ3FT2473XI	0886777178	870845551	Crown of Shadows (The Coldfire Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great End to an Excellent Series	Crown of Shadows culminates the battle between the demon Iezu against Damien and Tarrant.  The ending of this novel is fabulous and keeps the reader questioning as to what happens next.  Unfortunately, there is no  sequel so we are left to wonder about the final person Damien meets on the  last pages.  The novel is excellent due to the  ironic combo of Damien and  Tarrant.  Tarrant is the former Prophet who has turned into the most feared  &quot;demon&quot; in the land:  The Hunter.  I loved this novel, and think  it was a great way to close out this series.	2000-04-04
US	51743517	RK9I6SCALRUZE	0441001157	558005264	Dragon Companion	Books	2	0	3	N	N	Don't expect much from Companion	&quot;Dragon Companion&quot; is a very low-thought fantasy novel.  This book would be great for a young child interested in starting in fantasy.  The plot is straightforward and simple, but lacks depth.  Perhaps the most  important question (why the companion got into a new world) is never  answered.  The companion solves these &quot;problems&quot; using simple  logic.  Don't expect much tension or page turning suspense.  Instead, pass  this book on to children in order to increase their reading aptitude.	2000-03-31
US	51743517	R3T6S9ETTAICY7	0553290991	166385709	Nightfall	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Nightfall is magnificent.	Nightfall is perhaps one of the best science-fiction stories I have read.  The concept of a world with multiple suns that never sees night is very unique and entertaining.  Perhaps the best part of the novel is the  fanatical religious cult that predicts an impending doom for this planet.  The novel has some basic striking similarities to the new movie &quot;Pitch  Black&quot;.  The concept of the world is the same, but the creatures are  not.  It is hard to imagine what would happen to a world that never saw  night.  This novel shows the paranoia and mob frenzy found  in a new  situation.	2000-03-29
US	51743517	R2WJD19UGOGT2F	0440206154	247672694	Red Dragon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Dragon is unreal	Red Dragon happens to have the same pyschological tension as found in the sequel Silence of the Lambs.  In this novel, you meet Hannibal the Cannibal for the first time, and the agent who almost died catching him.  But this  novel is about  another serial killer who is pyschologically scary like  Hannibal.  The novel is intense and frightening, and moves at a rapid pace.   Be prepared for a twist at the end that is masterful.  Enjoy!	2000-03-29
US	51743517	R1KE7SA2KAIKLH	0812524969	329457260	Beowulf's Children	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Beowulf's Children lacks the punch of Legacy of Heorot	The sequel to Legacy of Heorot(LOH), takes you back to Avalon 25 years after the Grendel Wars.  The community is split between the orginal settlers and the &quot;Star Born&quot;.  This rift is evident during the  novel, and only gets larger.  The colonists finally take a step to settle  the mainland, in which they meet a deadly new &quot;Avalon Surprise&quot;.   Unfortunately, this book lacks the raw intensity and power of LOH.  The  book plays more on social structures and issues.  On the positive side, the  book does create an intersting new threat found on Avalon, and makes you  wonder if there will be a sequel.	2000-03-22
US	51743517	R2YLU9R708HQSX	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Top Five of All time	&quot;Dune&quot; is probably one of the top five books in science-fiction/fantasy that I have read.  This book is brilliantly set on a world covered in sand.  The antagonism between the two rival families is  excellent.  This is a must read in the world of science-fiction, and should  be placed on a High School's mandatory reading list.	2000-03-10
US	51743517	R2G2LBKWW86GCW	0671695320	84858049	The Legacy of Heorot (Heorot, No 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Legacy of Heorot	Legacy of Heorot is an excellent sci-fi novel that  has similarities to &quot;Aliens&quot; and &quot;Predator&quot;.  I think the book was fast-paced and intense.  I thoroughly recommend this novel for any sci-fi  lover.	2000-03-10
