US	51752008	R215GQF4L8DTHG	155583793X	880285468	Center Square: The Paul Lynde Story	Books	4	57	63	N	Y	"simultaneously seeking & spurning what he desired"	I was reminded of comedic actor Paul Lynde through a special on TV Land called \\"Tickled Pink\\" that aired a few months back.  I was not quite 8 when Lynde died in January 1982, but I still remembered him from his many television guests spots and Hollywood Squares.  I recall him being one of the funniest people I've ever seen (on TV, or anywhere else for that matter) as well as a man who did not act all that masculine (not knowing at the time what that was all about).  After the TV Land special jogged my memory, I located a copy of the A&E biography which detailed his upbringing (I was shocked the thin actor was once so over weight), career, and tawdry lifestyle.  It seemed the documentary was just scratching the surface, so, thinking, `I've got to read a book about this guy,' I searched for a book expecting to find at least a couple of biographies.  Alas, nothing.  I was very surprised as Lynde's life is meant to be written if not for the intrigue and seediness alone.  I was very happy to find out that, finally, a book on Lynde called Center Square was coming out [so to speak]  in August 2005.      Center Square was written by Steve Wilson and Joe Florenski, who I remembered seeing on the A&E Biography.  This book reads like an extension of the program.  It does not dive as deeply into Lynde's life as I expected.  I've only read a few contemporary articles on Lynde while waiting for the book to be released (People magazine, TV Guide, etc.) and found that I already knew a lot that is in this book just from that small amount of Lynde exposure.  The authors, at the beginning, note that they encountered \\"scant press coverage\\" on Lynde that was \\"mostly fluff pieces in forgotten TV magazines and unflattering bits in the gossip rags of the era\\" (viii), so maybe there is not a lot of sources available.  The Acknowledgment section does not indicate if the authors conducted any original interviews with those who knew Lynde. As Lynde's fellow actors and friends are getting older, the time is now to try to get any more info  they might be willing and/or ready to reveal.  It seems there is some info in here that may have been garnered by interviews, but it is not noted.    Still, it is a credit to these authors for pouring through the resources and putting together a thorough account of Paul Lynde.  They rush through the early years (probably due to lack of material) but paint a revealing portrait of Lynde's troubling childhood spent eating and fantasizing about a life of fame and fortune, and his wild years spent as a college student at Northwestern.  His relationship with high school sweetheart Marilyn Organ (nee Surlas) is described as being much more serious here than in other accounts.  Surprisingly, Organ does not think Lynde was originally gay but became that way due to theatre life (14). More in depth coverage begins with Lynde's start in New York and  New Faces of 1952.  Of course, his big successes are detailed: Bye, Bye Birdie, the variety show circuit including the Perry Como Show and Dean Martin Show, his stint as Uncle Arthur on Bewitched, and, of course, Hollywood Squares.  As well, his less-than-stellar television projects are covered like the favorite of Lynde's that did not see the light of day (Sedgewick Hawke-Styles: Prince of Danger) and the ones that, unfortunately, did (The Paul Lynde Show).  The string of films in which Lynde appeared (most of which were panned by the critics) are covered as well as his stage tours as a Kenley Player.  The authors are no sycophants and sometimes use some excellent wit to deflate some of the weaker projects of their subject: \\"the laugh track was highly amused\\" (172).  They also demonstrate a thorough understanding of the entertainment industry at the time and drop a lot of names of people who worked with Lynde (many of whom I've never heard, but this, for me, did not detract from the book).  One interesting tidbit, for example, threw new light no Lucille Ball's recommendation that Lynde star in the family-related sitcom rather than his favorite Victorian-era Sedgewick [something I had read in a 1973 issue of TV Guide]: \\"Paul should have been more dubious; at the time Ball also thought she was perfectly suited to play Auntie Mame in her disastrous film version of the Broadway musical\\" (139).  I do not know a thing about that film or play, but it shows that Wilson and Florenski know their stuff.    Of course, the main selling point to the Paul Lynde story is his life outside the camera and stage, and Center Square covers it in all its inglorious details: the young actor who fell out of Lynde's 18th floor hotel window (the authors do a fairly convincing job explaining how this happened, pp. 98-9), the alcohol-soaked venom he spewed at friends and fellow actors, his drunk driving incidents where he'd drive \\"erratically down a L.A. street...and sidewalk\\" (90), his arrests for public intoxication, his hiring of temporary companions from escort services, the ugly Burger King incident during a return to Northwestern involving a 6'9 African American professor and racist epithets, etc.  Of course, no book on Lynde can be written without examples of what the authors call \\"poof proof\\" (the book is published by the gay magazine The Advocate). After reading all these stories, one gets the feeling they are just the tip of the ice berg.  Even with his efforts at the end to stop drinking, it is difficult to have sympathy for Lynde once his death is described.  On that subject, Center Square provides a convincing and revealing account of how the actor's body was discovered perhaps finally putting to bed the seedy rumors in cyberspace involving a hustler who left Lynde to die.   Details of Lynde's corpse told by the one witness who seems the most credible is quite horrifying (p. 228).  The book includes four pages of b&w photos which seems very skimpy to me but, considering the extremely reasonable price of this book, it is understandable.  There are tons of Lyndephotos available on the Internet, anyway.      After reading this book, it seems to me that the definitive account of Lynde's life and career is still yet to be written.  The apparent lack of original interviews would prevent this book from being the last say.  If there were original interviews, referencing them as such would enhance the book's credibility.  Getting more depth out of the interviews would also help.  I hope the authors are wrong in their prediction that a time when Lynde is forgotten \\"approaches far too quickly\\" (p. 236).  If they are correct, that definitive book may never be written, and that would be unfortunate.  Still, we have Center Square, which all Lynde fans cannot be without.	2005-08-30
US	51752008	R13JPBWPSC8NL0	0618096426	544169530	Good Brother, Bad Brother: The Story of Edwin Booth and John Wilkes Booth	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	"an oppressed memory, and a wounded name" --- Edwin Booth	A notation in Good Brother, Bad Brother suggests that it is for readers aged 10-14, but I found it to be interesting and informative for even well-read adults and, although the writing style may be more geared towards a younger audience, it includes some nice analysis and even a little intrigue.  James Cross Giblin covers Edwin more thoroughly--he lived longer, of course-from his youthful days accompanying his famous father actor Junius Brutus Booth on his theatrical tours to the beginnings of Edwin's stage career, his sometimes heated relationship with younger brother John Wilkes, fears about his future after the assassination and how the assassination continued to affect him throughout his life, his post-assassination career including the Booth Theatre and The Players club, his troubling second marriage, to his death.  The chapters on John Wilkes Booth include information and reviews on his brief acting career but, of course, focus on his fanaticism with the southern cause and his conspiracy plans to kidnap (which later escalated to killing) President Lincoln. <br /> <br />Giblin uses many sources (including the fairly recent publication of JWB's writings) to draw a very thorough overview of the lives of the brothers.  A comparison of the different acting styles of the brothers are described (pg. 73), the impact John Brown's hanging had on JWB is shown with a nice brief description of the event (pp. 55-7), the efforts on the part of the Booth family (including Edwin) to obtain the remains of JWB for burial is demonstrated through passages of family letters to the government (pp. 166, 173-7), etc.  The author also explains the political-military situation at the time to provide background to JWB's infamous act.  The fate of the conspirators (including how they suffered in prison) is detailed but does not deviate the book too far from the subject of the brothers.  Mary Surratt (often over-covered in other books on the subject) is barely touched on.  Little details like why Lincoln was not taken to the hospital are nice touches as many young readers would ask such questions and, adults as well, may be puzzled by it (pg. 128). <br /> <br />Giblin does not overly sanitize his book for his younger audience.  Junius Brutus Booth's alcohol problems (and the fact that Edwin had to accompany him to keep him from imbibing too recklessly) are fully explained as are Edwin's own struggles with alcoholism.  Junius Brutus' second family in England is revealed (something I don't remember reading about before).  Some of JWB's angry writings (including using the n-word) are included and it is revealed he smuggled quinine to the South (pg. 86).  Oddly, Giblin does not include any passages from or even mentions an undelivered speech JWB wrote in Philadelphia about his political stands after South Carolina seceded from the Union; a speech Edwin saved from the furnace.  This revealing speech is published in its entirety in `Right or Wrong, God Judge Me: The Writings of John Wilkes Booth.'  The observations of a witness who helped Edwin destroy JWB's theatrical costumes is included, however.  Edwin's bouts with depression are considered and his strained relationship with his mentally-disturbed second wife Mary McVicker and her family are demonstrated.  Edwin minced no words in this eye-opening quote from one of his letters: \\"I'd prosecute the she-devil [Mary's mother] for defamation of character and apply for a divorce from her lunatic daughter\\" (p. 197).  That the former Ford's Theatre collapsed as Edwin's body was being transported for burial is an intriguing side note (p. 221) <br /> <br />As interesting as the text is, the many photographs are amazing.  Photos of the brothers in theatrical garb (including one of elder brother Junius, Edwin, and John on stage together for the only time in a rendition of Julius Caesar on page 100), posed photos of John, family photos of Edwin, revealing shots of the conspirators in unusual bar handcuffs, photos of the hangings; it is an excellent illustrative record. I definitely recommend this book to anyone-young or old-interested in the Booths.	2005-08-18
US	51752008	R1HXH23UH35G22	0252023471	247779879	Right or Wrong, God Judge Me: The Writings of John Wilkes Booth	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	"open force is holier than hidden craft"---JWB	\\"Right or Wrong, God Judge Me\\" is a fascinating collection of all the known existing hand-written documents left by John Wilkes Booth.  Most of his written materials were destroyed by family, friends and acquaintances in the aftermath of Lincoln's assassination for fear that the holders of the documents  may be accused of being an accessory to the crime.  What is printed here (many for the first time) are those documents left by JWB that managed to be preserved.  These materials include letters written to a friend William O'Laughlin (brother of Michael O'Laughlin who was a co-conspirator) when JWB was a teen-ager, poems written in autograph books of fellow actors, information on his theatre work and financial investments written to his business partners, love letters to Isabel Sumner, and a lengthy pro-Union speech intentionally preserved by brother Edwin written only a few days after South Carolina seceded from the Union. In the latter as well as the famous \\"To Whom It May Concern\\" letter also published here, JWB explains his sympathy with the southern cause, the influence of watching abolitionist John Brown hanged, his feelings towards his country, his personal views on slavery, etc.  Two pocket diary entries written while he was a fugitive (surprised at the negative reaction his deed received from the public) as well as a sarcastic letter written to a doctor who would not help him as he was fleeing authorities on an injured leg are the last entries in this book. <br /> <br />What makes this book even more fascinating than reading the words of one of the most notorious men in American history, is the incredible research completed by the editors.  Every document, including letters of only a couple sentences, are followed by many footnotes detailing the people, places, and events in JWB's life pertaining to the document.  This information includes theatre reviews, most in praise of Booth's performances, especially his sword fighting.  The dangers and hardships actors endured traveling to shows in those days is explained. The editors also include historical background and context to the documents.  Even the letters on his theatre schedule and investments were interesting because of the additional information the editors provided. I felt as though I was following JWB's life through these letters and footnotes.  I've come away from this book with a much better understanding of what motivated JWB to commit his crime.  Anyone interested in Booth and the Lincoln assassination needs to read this book.  The 171-page book includes a section of illustrations, including photos of three of the handwritten documents.	2005-08-05
US	51752008	R340O6ENCD2KFH	0300099215	531499520	The Coldest March: Scott's Fatal Antarctic Expedition	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	"The worst weather in the world"	The Coldest March (referring to the month as well as the verb) is about British explorer Robert Falcon Scott and his team of explorers and scientists who raced a Norwegian team led by Roald Amundsen to the South Pole in 1911-12.  Amundsen was the first ever to reach the Pole.  Scott and four of his crew (hand-chosen by Scott) reached the Pole a month later.  Amundsen's team made it back but Scott's did not.  Many books and reports have been written since trying to explain why Scott failed to return.  Many critics site several bad decisions on the part of Scott leading to the legend that he was a bumbler.  Scott kept a journal right to the end and sometimes his self-effacing entries fueled the criticism. <br /> <br />Susan Solomon may seem to have an agenda.  Throughout the book, Solomon attempts to defend many of Scott's decisions and actions.  She has tremendous expertise in the subject. Solomon studied the Ozone layer in the Antarctic.  She is a senior scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Boulder, Colorado.  When considering the legend of Scott, Solomon admits that she assumed the Brit explorer foolishly disregarded the power of Mother Nature until she studied the data and diaries left by Scott and his crew (xvii).  While Solomon often defends Scott against highly critical historical accounts like Huntford's The Last Place on Earth, she is no apologist.  She also points out Scott's errors and baffling decisions. <br /> <br />At the beginning of each chapter, Solomon includes part of the experiences of a modern-day Antarctic visitor.  This visitor is not a specific person but a conglomeration of typical visitors.  At first I was confused as, while reading about this modern experience, the story would shift gears to 1911-12.  Soon, I figured out the pattern.  The modern stories are at the beginning of each chapter (only about 2-3 pages each) and are in bold print.  These stories are able to demonstrate clearly the issues or problems surrounding the Scott legend: i.e. comparing the huge stock of frozen vegetables at the warehouse there today and the comfortable living conditions against what Scott and his him men faced (pp. 71-2), the importance of drinking plenty of water in higher elevations versus the meager cups of tea Scott and company could drink each day with the scarce fuel they had, (p. 209), how much a visitor suffers in just a short period in extreme conditions (p. 286), etc.  These stories, especially one explaining the need to risk snowblindness to better see crevasses (p. 183) helped me, as a reader who will never experience anything remotely close to the Antarctic, better understand the issues people face there. <br /> <br />Solomon clearly refutes points of criticism of Scott: i.e. that his men suffered from scurvy because they refused to eat seal meat or their ponies (pp. 3, 176), that the final five men who journeyed to the Pole did not have enough to eat because they only prepared food for four (p. 213), etc.  She does point out Scott's weaknesses and mistakes.  For example, he put too much faith in the opinions of some of his men (p. 86) and, even more importantly, he planned by the margins, putting too much stock in past experiences and not preparing for the possibility of worse case scenarios as did Amundsen.  The inferior sleeping bags and faulty fuel cans were significant problems stemming from a lack of proper testing and preparation.  Solomon is no sycophant and makes a fair assessment based on Scott's and his men's diaries and other primary sources. <br /> <br />What makes this work a fresh approach is the information on weather conditions taken from stations set up near Scott's path.  They provided data for several decades demonstrating that the conditions Scott faced during the last month of their lives (March 1912) were extremely rare and perhaps unprecedented.  What is puzzling is Solomon's conclusions which are contradictory.  She discusses the rarity of the blizzard they faced in March 1912 and then shifts to explain that a 10-day blizzard noted in Scott's diary probably did not occur and that the men stayed in their tent for other reasons; one possibly being Scott's frost-bitten foot.  Then, out-of-the-blue, Solomon mentions a suicide plan Scott wrote in his diary on March 11 involving opium tablets (p. 322).  They decided not to take them but it seems odd to only mention such an entry briefly towards the end of the book.  They probably lived another 18 or more days.  Her confusing and inconclusive ending is the only criticism I have of this well-written and fascinating book.  It is extremely well-researched and, on a historical level, offers fresh ideas and approaches.  She also discusses the men on Scott's team (Edward Wilson, Lawrence Oates, Henry Bowers, Edgar Evans, Lt. Edward Evans, Apsely Cherry-Garrard, etc.) describing some of their backgrounds, characters, and personalities which added a lot to the human side of the story.	2005-07-16
US	51752008	RF1SQDGLY7OGC	0522850235	429107929	Coldest March	Books	5	1	1	N	N	"The worst weather in the world"	The Coldest March (referring to the month as well as the verb) is about British explorer Robert Falcon Scott and his team of explorers and scientists who raced a Norwegian team led by Roald Amundsen to the South Pole in 1911-12.  Amundsen was the first ever to reach the Pole.  Scott and four of his crew (hand-chosen by Scott) reached the Pole a month later.  Amundsen's team made it back but Scott's did not.  Many books and reports have been written since trying to explain why Scott failed to return.  Many critics site several bad decisions on the part of Scott leading to the legend that he was a bumbler.  Scott kept a journal right to the end and sometimes his self-effacing entries fueled the criticism. <br /> <br />Susan Solomon may seem to have an agenda.  Throughout the book, Solomon attempts to defend many of Scott's decisions and actions.  She has tremendous expertise in the subject. Solomon studied the Ozone layer in the Antarctic.  She is a senior scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Boulder, Colorado.  When considering the legend of Scott, Solomon admits that she assumed the Brit explorer foolishly disregarded the power of Mother Nature until she studied the data and diaries left by Scott and his crew (xvii).  While Solomon often defends Scott against highly critical historical accounts like Huntford's The Last Place on Earth, she is no apologist.  She also points out Scott's errors and baffling decisions. <br /> <br />At the beginning of each chapter, Solomon includes part of the experiences of a modern-day Antarctic visitor.  This visitor is not a specific person but a conglomeration of typical visitors.  At first I was confused as, while reading about this modern experience, the story would shift gears to 1911-12.  Soon, I figured out the pattern.  The modern stories are at the beginning of each chapter (only about 2-3 pages each) and are in bold print.  These stories are able to demonstrate clearly the issues or problems surrounding the Scott legend: i.e. comparing the huge stock of frozen vegetables at the warehouse there today and the comfortable living conditions against what Scott and his him men faced (pp. 71-2), the importance of drinking plenty of water in higher elevations versus the meager cups of tea Scott and company could drink each day with the scarce fuel they had, (p. 209), how much a visitor suffers in just a short period in extreme conditions (p. 286), etc.  These stories, especially one explaining the need to risk snowblindness to better see crevasses (p. 183) helped me, as a reader who will never experience anything remotely close to the Antarctic, better understand the issues people face there. <br /> <br />Solomon clearly refutes points of criticism of Scott: i.e. that his men suffered from scurvy because they refused to eat seal meat or their ponies (pp. 3, 176), that the final five men who journeyed to the Pole did not have enough to eat because they only prepared food for four (p. 213), etc.  She does point out Scott's weaknesses and mistakes.  For example, he put too much faith in the opinions of some of his men (p. 86) and, even more importantly, he planned by the margins, putting too much stock in past experiences and not preparing for the possibility of worse case scenarios as did Amundsen.  The inferior sleeping bags and faulty fuel cans were significant problems stemming from a lack of proper testing and preparation.  Solomon is no sycophant and makes a fair assessment based on Scott's and his men's diaries and other primary sources. <br /> <br />What makes this work a fresh approach is the information on weather conditions taken from stations set up near Scott's path.  They provided data for several decades demonstrating that the conditions Scott faced during the last month of their lives (March 1912) were extremely rare and perhaps unprecedented.  What is puzzling is Solomon's conclusions which are contradictory.  She discusses the rarity of the blizzard they faced in March 1912 and then shifts to explain that a 10-day blizzard noted in Scott's diary probably did not occur and that the men stayed in their tent for other reasons; one possibly being Scott's frost-bitten foot.  Then, out-of-the-blue, Solomon mentions a suicide plan Scott wrote in his diary on March 11 involving opium tablets (p. 322).  They decided not to take them but it seems odd to only mention such an entry briefly towards the end of the book.  They probably lived another 18 or more days.  Her confusing and inconclusive ending is the only criticism I have of this well-written and fascinating book.  It is extremely well-researched and, on a historical level, offers fresh ideas and approaches.  She also discusses the men on Scott's team (Edward Wilson, Lawrence Oates, Henry Bowers, Edgar Evans, Lt. Edward Evans, Apsely Cherry-Garrard, etc.) describing some of their backgrounds, characters, and personalities which added a lot to the human side of the story.  This is one of the best books I've read in a while.  Definitely go through the Amazon sellers if you want the hardcover edition.	2005-07-16
US	51752008	R1487IRHMIQ609	0312117418	151862482	The Andy Griffith Show Book: From Miracle Salve to Kerosene Cucumbers : The Complete Guide to One of Television's Best-Loved Shows	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Excellent Reference for the Mayberry Trivia Buff & Fan Fiction Writer	Ken Beck and Jim Clark no doubt eat, drink, and breath the Andy Griffith Show as they must have watched every episode several times with pen and paper in hand to create this book filled with almost every bit of trivia you'd want to know about the show, not to mention their many other books on TAGS.  This book is not about the actors, writers, behind-the-scenes activities, or the philosophy of the show, it is a book on the characters, places, and happenings in Mayberry.  The episodes of the television show is the only source for this book.    Some reviewers do not think a book recapping the events of the television show is valuable, but it is for trivia buffs and for fan fiction writers.  Fans who like to write Mayberry-related stories can find all sorts of helpful tidbits in this book.  There is even an episode guide in the back with brief synopses.  It is very useful for those who have not seen all the episodes or cannot remember certain details about the characters, places, etc.  I have referred to this book several times in writing just one fan fiction story.  It is very well-organized and usually offers that little detail I'm looking for.  I was very surprised how much information is offered in this book.      Every character is profiled (almost all with photos) from the main ones to those who were only on a short time or intermittently like Ellie Walker, the Darlings, Clara Edwards Johnson, Emmett Clark, Sam Jones, and that adorable Warren Ferguson (with a nice photo I have not seen before).  For trivia buffs, there are chapters on \\"Cops and Robbers,\\" \\"Codes and Cases,\\" \\"Mayberry Media\\" (local newspapers, radio stations, tv stations, tv programs enjoyed by Mayberry residents), \\"Music of Mayberry,\\" \\"Contradictions,\\" and more.  There is also a helpful map of Mayberry with all the important spots like Myer's Lake, the Duck Pond, the Darling's cabin, and Ernest T. Bass' cave, a town directory and yellow pages for both Mayberry and Mt. Pilot.  It also has a quiz.  There are scores of b&w photos throughout the book.  My only complaint is that the episode guide is not divided up into seasons.  Recommended for anyone interested in the characters of TAGS.	2005-07-16
US	51752008	RDXZ9UFHJQ9H8	0700613528	144000886	The Legend of John Wilkes Booth: Myth, Memory, and a Mummy (CultureAmerica)	Books	3	13	13	N	Y	"Memory is never neat" (p. 14)	I bought this book because of its intriguing cover and title and because I have a fascination, like a lot of readers, with John Wilkes Booth, Lincoln's assassin.  C. Wyatt Evans' work started out a lot different than the fun, mass audience-oriented book I expected.  It reads like the over-analytical, pedantic works my professors forced me to read in grad school.  Evans analyzes the long-running myth (both regional and national) that Booth was not fatally shot in a barn by Sergeant Boston Corbett's nervous trigger finger as government authorities claimed but had escaped and lived out his life in various ways depending on the storyteller.  The suicide death of painter and drifter David George in 1903 in Enid, Oklahoma propelled the myth.  George supposedly claimed he was Booth and his embalmed remains were put on display at various carnivals and exhibits for years.  Evans' introduction is extremely pedantic to the point that I had to read very carefully and slowly (and sometimes several times) to follow along. A sample sentence: \\"Vernacular, counter, marginal, and associated terms serve as keywords in a cultural critical lexicon that employs them in a positive sense to connote the struggle of marginalized groups to preserve their identities in the face of the dominant group's rendition of the past\\" (p. 15). Much of the introduction reads this way and if it continued as such, I may have given up.  Fortunately, Evans drops a lot of the intellectual buzz words and the rest of the book reads more smoothly.  The following briefly describes the content per chapter:<br /><br />Chapter 1 takes a look at the David George story; why he was thought by some to be Booth and how his corpse ended up an attraction.  In addition, Evans considers the history of Enid, OK including its famous land \\"runs.\\"  Chapter 2 explores the history of mummy exhibition in the United States and how the \\"Booth\\" mummy fits, for example, \\"Booth\\" represented the popular (curiosity of the notorious and horrific) and traditional (celebrated dignity) models of mummy displays. (p. 55).  In chapter 3, Evans explains the northern origins of the Booth legend with a history of the assassination and press coverage.  Chapter 4 shifts to the south and how many southerners regarded the assassination (relief, feigned mourning) and the legend of Booth's escape (a symbol of \\"white southern unreconstructedness\\").<br /><br />Finis Langdon Bates' 1907 book Escape and Suicide of John Wilkes Booth is analyzed in chapter 5. Bates' attempt to document Booth's escape implicated VP Andrew Johnson but was done in a way to appease both North and South (\\"Booth\\" expressing regret for his deed).  In chapter 6, the legend becomes a national phenomenon.  The legend represented pre-modern views which clashed with the current times.  He considers Lincoln's transition to national icon (p. 156), as well as Otto Eisenschiml and Izola Forrester's (who claimed to be Booth's granddaughter) contribution to the legend.  Clarence True Wilson's historical and religious interpretation of the legend is examined in chapter 7.  Wilson, a classic minister of reform who worshipped Lincoln, saw Booth's survival and sad existence as moral retribution for his act.  Chapter 8 deals with the legend in contemporary America with the recent work Dark Union (2003) and 1977's book and film The Lincoln Conspiracy.  In his conclusion, Evans states that \\"the legend's great lesson to the present is how subgroups in American culture appropriate deeply symbolic events for harmful purposes\\" (p. 218).<br /><br />As a history of the myth of Booth's escape, Evans' book is thorough, insightful and extremely well researched.  I think he over-analyzes the legend, however.  Sure, many people through history have considered the possibility of Booth's escape and designated meaning to it.  It is a curiosity and, back in the day, a political incendiary.  A famous actor killing and president during a bloody war between the states with suspicious government reaction, how can this not make for intrigue and conspiracy theories?  Evans makes a lot out of this legend to put forth American cultural meaning, but it seems to me that the people most obsessed with the issue are the ones hoping to profit from it either through books or by exhibiting a mummy claimed to be Booth.  It is an interesting story, of course, without the analytical stuff. I'm just not convinced it is much more than an intriguing footnote to history.	2005-06-20
US	51752008	R2BXV3EW0U9383	0805069429	328457754	James K. Polk (The American Presidents Series)	Books	3	26	27	N	Y	"He said exactly what he was going to do and did it"--Truman	When I read about President James K. Polk's accomplishments in the swift overview history classes in school, I remember wondering why he is not more well-known.  He set out four main goals that he would achieve in one term, was successful on each one, kept his promise in not running for President again, retired and died within three months of leaving office as if his life purpose was fulfilled and there was nothing more to give to the country.  One cannot ask for anything more from a President.  He is always highly listed in presidential rankings, but most Americans have probably never heard of him.  Perhaps it is because he only served one term and succeeded and preceded two mediocre administrations (Tyler and Taylor).  Serving almost 20 years before the Civil War may have also dimmed his legacy as many American history buffs focus their attention on the war years and those immediately preceding them.  Secessionist grumbling, although very much present during Polk's political career, had not yet reached the boiling point.  After reading the James Buchanan book of this American Presidents series, I looked forward to learning again about Polk's achievements in Seigenthaler's book. <br /> <br />Like all of the American Presidents series books, this biography is a brief (156 pages of actual text) overview of Polk's career.  I do not fault Seigenthaler's work for being short and terse because these books are meant for the busy reader who does not have the time to read massive volumes.  I do fault the author for concentrating so much on Polk's congressional career at the expense of what really made him great: his term as the 11th President of the U.S.  In this book, Polk does not become President until page 102. <br /> <br />I agree with a previous reviewer.  The one thing that sticks out in my mind after reading this book, besides Polk's extreme partisan politics and the control he wielded as President, was the urinary stone (not gallstone) operation he suffered throughwhen 17 that probably left him sterile or impotent (pp. 19-20).  On this point, Seigenthaler offers painful detail.  For the rest of the book, Seigenthaler moves quickly through events, but the key  things covered are how the \\"corrupt deal\\" of 1824 (putting John Quincy Adams in office) affected Polk's political aspirations (p. 33), his allegiance to Andrew Jackson in fighting Nicholas Biddle and the Second Bank of the United States (pp. 51-3), and events leading to his nomination for the Presidency.  The initial front-runner for the Democratic party, former President Martin Van Buren, did not even want Polk as a VP candidate after Polk lost two gubernatorial bids in Tennessee.  Van Buren and Whig candidate Henry Clay made nomination-killing decisions in opposing the annexation of Texas (a very popular cause).  Polk was a Jackson disciple with the nickname \\"Young Hickory,\\" but he was not a complete yes-man.  For example, he sided with John C. Calhoun and against Jackson on the issue of state nullification (however, Polk was no secessionist) (p. 48).  When he was elected President, Polk made his own choices when it came to the cabinet (actually, he probably favored running the entire administration himself) even when the choices disagreed with the aged Jackson's wishes (p. 112).   <br /> <br />After describing how Polk put his cabinet together, Seigenthaler rushes through Polk's main achievements in 40 pages.  His four goals were to (1) lower the tariff, (2) create an independent treasury (his Constitutional Treasury Bill would last until 1913 when it was replaced by the Federal Reserve System), (3) acquire Oregon from the British, and (4) acquire California from Mexico.  One plus about this book was that I did come away from it with a greater understanding of who Polk was as a person and what motivated him.  He was self-righteous almost to the point of humorless.  He was a control-freak while in office and extremely partisan.  He was highly critical of his generalsScott and Taylor during the war with Mexico, even though they were highly capable and successful, for no other reason than because they were Whigs.  He was a strong Unionist and probably would have had a Lincoln-esque legacy if he (rather than Buchanan) were President when secessionist furor was at its height.  His relationship with Secretary of State Buchanan is described here better than in the Buchanan biography in this series.  The book is very well written but, content-wise, I think Polk's presidential years are found lacking.	2005-06-06
US	51752008	R1AZY0OUXT5P0C	0060587504	871349916	Simpsons Comics Belly Buster	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	"A Where's Waldo book written by the Devil"---Ned Flanders	Belly Buster is another solid Simpsons comic book with the same type of art and humor you get from the television shows.  There are a lot of shorts in this one but, for the most part, the comics offer good story lines with lots of typical Simpsons satire. <br /> <br />\\"Maggie Come Home\\": Lisa joins a demanding baby sitter union and Maggie ends up caught in the middle.  A familiar person ends up behind the union mess.  A fun, original comic. <br />\\"Storeroom Raider\\": Lisa must go into the school storeroom to fetch some chalk; a storeroom from which two students failed to return.  Short but has a funny ending. <br />\\"What Would Possibly Happen if Cletus Went to College\\": Short about Springfield's  \\"slack-jawed yokel.\\"  Can a \\"common man\\" save a financially-challenged university? <br />\\"Bart & Lisa & Marge & Homer & Maggie (to a lesser extent) vs. Thanksgiving\\": Follow each Simpson on his/her Thanksgiving adventure.  Very contrived at the end but moderately amusing and creative. <br /> <br />\\"The Beer Boys\\": Homer takes over Moe's while Moe undergoes a gallstone operation.  Feeling he is now \\"somebody,\\" Homer starts his own bar.  Ends abruptly but is still funny. <br />\\"Around Town w/ Ned Flanders\\": Ned is supposed to show us different sites in Springfield but his plans are abruptly cut short.  This comic had possibilities but I think it came up as short as its 4 pages. <br />\\"Bart in `Fork it Over'\\": One-page short featuring Bart, Nelson, and Milhouse in the school cafeteria. <br />\\"Tanks for Nothing\\": Gampa gets a tank from the government in exchange for forfeiting unpaid back veteran benefits.  The owner of the Shelbyville Nuclear Power Plant, Aristotle Amadopolis, who you may remember from the TV episode \\"Homer Defined,\\" sees the tank parked at the Springfield plant and accuses Mr. Burns of breaking their arms treaty.  Will their be a nuclear war?  In this comic we get a glimpse of Mindy from the \\"Last Temptation of Homer\\" (I did not know she still worked there). <br />\\"Homer vs. the Wallpaper\\": In this 4-page short, Homer tries to put up Krusty wallpaper (with Krusty wallpaper paste, of course) in Bart's room and failing to \\"book\\" the paper isn't his only problem.  Since when does Bart call him \\"Homeslice\\" and \\"Homefries\\"?  <br />\\"Picture Perfect\\": Someone is graffiti-tagging the neighbor (I wonder who that could be?).  Groundskeeper Willie is the hero in this 4-page short. <br /> <br />\\"Siege on Evergreen Terrace\\": Flanders prepaid for a pool to be built in his backyard while he was away.  When the pool guys mistakenly go to Homer's house, Homer pretends to be Ned to get the free pool.  After the pool is installed, Flanders alerts the pool builders of the mistake.  Rather than give up the pool, Homer and his pool buddies stage a stand-off (at one point, the pool builders try to break the compound's spirits by blasting Kajagoogoo). <br />\\"Duff Daddy\\": An advertising agency for Duff beer hires Barney and Homer to do a Fruity Pebbles style commercial.  This comic is lame. <br />\\"Ned Flanders in Blind Luck\\": A 4-page short where widower Ned takes a skanky gal on a date.  The shooting range they go to is endorsed by \\"Charlton Heston of the NRA and Allen Iverson of the NBA.\\" <br />\\"The Yes-Man Who Would Be King\\": Smithers might be the sole heir to the Swedish throne and the people of Springfield begin asking for his kingly advice: \\"Liberte, Egalite, Malibu Stacia.\\"	2005-05-14
US	51752008	R3917YUKNEE5HO	0750933372	507125781	The Bad Popes (Sutton History Classics)	Books	4	47	49	N	N	"We cannot serve God & Mammon at the same time"---de' Mussi	I picked up The Bad Popes because of its intriguing title.  Its cover artwork (my copy has a different, more appealing cover than the one advertised here) and style reminded me of another book with an equally intriguing title also reprinted by Barnes & Noble Books: The Medieval Underworld by Andrew McCall.  McCall's work, although interesting and well researched, was very difficult to read.  I anticipated Chamberlin's work, first published in 1969, to pose a similar challenge.  I was pleasantly surprised.  The Bad Popes is sophisticated and scholarly as is Medieval Underworld, but it is much more accessible.  I have almost no background knowledge of the topic, but was able to follow along relatively well.  It is clearly written, not burdened with details, and even on occasion offers some humor and wit.    Chamberlin briefly goes back to the pagan traditions of Ancient Rome and then to Christophorous' forgery of The Donation of Constantine to establish the point where temporal powers transferred from the emperor to the pope.  For example, in 755 A.D. the King of Franks believed in the veracity of the Donation and gave Pope Stephen the keys to 20 cities foreshadowing the Papal states and the pope in the role of feudal lord (p. 17).  Such power magnified the attraction of the office and sparked the interest in some of the more greedy and power-hungry candidates to the Papacy.  The most interesting story of this period is when Pope Stephen VII had the corpse of  Pope Formosus dragged from its tomb to be put on trial (p. 19)    The book divides into six sections and features seven  \\"bad popes\\" with some information on their predecessors who do not seem that much better.  The first section entitled The House of Theophylact covers two popes as well as the senatrix of Rome Marozia and the legend of \\"Pope Joan.\\"  The first pope covered is John XII (955-63) whose biggest crime in Roman eyes was that he gave land to his mistress, but he was also involved with other crimes andwould end up being killed by a man who caught John in bed with his wife.  Pope Benedict IX (1032-1046) flat out sold the Papacy.  I found that the political intrigue surrounding the selection of the popes to be as, if not more, interesting than the events during each pope's reign.    The next five sections each feature one \\"bad pope.\\"  First, Benedict VIII (1294-1303) who was so horrible that Dante had him dragged through all three chapters of the Divine Comedy only to be viciously condemned at the end.  Urban VI (1378-89) earned several conspiracy plots against him by the cardinals. When several of his conspirators were tortured, Urban complained that he did not hear enough screaming (p. 153).  Nepotism was one of Alexander VI's greatest faults.  He reduced the Papacy to his own family and earned such hatred that, upon his death, his corpse lay unattended and swelled to the point where it could barley fit in the coffin (p. 204).  Pope Leo X (1513-21) ushered in a \\"Golden Age\\" but it was only seen as that by the Papacy because of his free spending.  One ceremony cost 1/7 of the reserves left by the previous pope (p. 218).  Clement VII is the last pope covered.  He, like Leo X, was a member of the legendary Medici family.  Centuries of messy politics caught up with him and Rome was caught between France, Spain, and a rising group of German mercenaries known as the landsknecht.  Rome fell and the Romans suffered five months of agony at the hands of their conquerors (277).  It is amazing how much happened during the seemingly short reigns of these popes. The book ends abruptly.  A chapter putting the centuries of \\"bad popes\\" into context with information on the behavior of Popes since the Reformation would have been useful, as would a map.  The book includes four sections of illustrations and family trees.  I recommend this book to anyone intrigued by the title even if one is only slightly interested in the subject due to its accessible, well-written style and its reasonable price.	2005-05-05
US	51752008	RT1H8PWP87YEH	1553650603	52118165	Frozen in Time: The Fate of the Franklin Expedition	Books	5	23	24	N	N	"They could not have foretold such an odyssey"	The first time I heard about the Franklin expedition on Dr. Bob Brier's television documentary on mummies, I knew I had to learn more.  Of course, the main cause of my fascination was the perfectly preserved bodies of the three sailors buried in 1846 on Beechy Island in the Canadian Arctic.  The expedition set off in 1845 thoroughly equipped to find the elusive Northwest Passage.  None of the 129 crewmen as well as Captain John Franklin survived.  Years later expeditions were sent out to find out what happened to Franklin and his men.  One search team in the 1850s led by M`Clintock, who was funded  by Franklin's widow, discovered the only written record of the Franklin Expedition which gave a clue as to their progress and fate and a small boat with an odd array of articles and skeletons on King William Island.  Headstones of three crewmen who died early in the expedition were also found on Beechy Island. The only conclusion that was made was that the men died of scurvy and starvation.  In 1981, a team led by physical anthropologist Owen Beattie continued the investigation into the lost Franklin Expedition.    The reason this event was such a famous mystery was because Franklin's crew was so well prepared.  Their two ships (HMS Terror and the HMS Erebus) were lavishly outfitted with survival equipment and supplies. Among their stock was a huge supply of canned foods (canning of foods being a recent practice at the time).  Franklin once bragged that his provisions could stretch for 7 years (p. 18).  In fact, empty tins littered the areas Franklin's crew camped.  These artifacts proved clues to Beattie as to the fate of the Franklin expedition.  Tests done on the lead level in bones found near Booth Point gave evidence that Franklin's men were poisoning themselves, weakening their bodies physically and impairing their decision-making.   Beattie's team would exhume the bodies of the early Franklin deaths on Beechy Island to support this theory.        In addition to theexhumation and autopsies of the perfectly preserved bodies which is, of course, fascinating by itself, Beattie gives grisly details as to the evidence of cannibalism among the crew (p. 61), information on the sloppy soldering of the tin food cans (p. 113), and the rushed work of the Stephan Goldner company to fill the order for the canned foods (p. 159).  A recreation of 20-year-old Chief Stoker John Torrington is described which even uses evidence found in his grave to show it was snowing lightly the day of his burial (pp. 123-7).  It is unbelievable what scientists can find!  One item I had not read before was that the odd choice of scriptures engraved on the headstones caused the team to first suspect foul play as the cause of the deaths (p. 93). The graves are a time capsule, and the Beattie team did an excellent job of learning from them yet also honoring them.  The book includes amazing color photos of the bodies.      I have the 1987 out-of-print 180-page edition.  This new edition appears to have additional information on other polar explorations giving all the more reason to check this book out. My copy ends with a comparison with the Challenger tragedy which is understandable as the 1986 disaster was still very fresh when this book was written.  The big flaw with this comparison is that the powers-that-be in charge of launching Challenger knew of the dangers beforehand (even the specific warning about the fragility of the O-rings in frigid temperatures) and chose to ignore them. The Franklin Expedition really believed they were properly equipped with no idea of the fatal cargo they carried.  There is a definite innocence about this tragedy on the part of all involved. They truly believed they would succeed.  I also recommend the book Buried in Ice by the same authors.  It is a juvenile book but has additional information not found in Frozen in Time, including photos of some of the articles used by the Franklin Expedition including a medicine chest and a complete food tin.	2005-05-05
US	51752008	R1ZMULAMKZM03U	0743265858	143758358	Face the Nation: My Favorite Stories from the First 50 Years of the Award-Winning News Broadcast	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	"a window on history"	I am not a regular viewer of the Sunday political interview program Face the Nation but, while surfing channels, I saw Face the Nation moderator Bob Schieffer discuss his book celebrating the 50th anniversary of the program.  Clips from the DVD included with the book were shown.  There was the CBS crew in Moscow interviewing Nikita Krushchev in an odd-looking set in 1957.  Then they showed a clip from 1959 with Fidel Castro in Havana.  Schieffer explained that armed guards (one with a gun pointed at FTN producer Ted Ayers) surrounded the camera crew with Castro giving the probably not too reassuring claim that they were \\"men of love.\\"  What really intrigued me was a clip of the first FTN telecast.  Senator Joe McCarthy was interviewed shortly before Congress voted to censure him for his excessive, paranoid, unsubstantiated accusations that many in the government were card-carrying Communists.  McCarthy branded the Senate session a \\"lynching bee\\" right on the television show.  When I was a teacher, I researched several lectures on McCarthy and never heard of this interview.  Since I am interested in Cold War history, I bought this book.<br /><br />The 50th anniversary book covers the following topics: McCarthy and the Red Scare, Krushchev the \\"big scoop,\\" \\"Castro day on CBS,\\" Civil Rights, Vietnam, the Pentagon Papers, women on FTN, presidential campaigns, Clinton's impeachment, 9/11, and the war in Iraq.  The second part includes select \\"final thoughts\\" by Schieffer my favorite being on Prince Charles: \\"So why is this cause to celebrate? Because he's their prince, not ours\\" (p. 197).  The third section is a brief look at the moderators and producers of FTN through the decades.  In the back are statistics listing guests with the most appearances and the longest span of appearances.  Part 1, the meat of the book, is only 179 pages of the short 227-page book, so the topics are discussed only briefly.  Still, there are some interesting stories.<br /><br />I am more interested in the Cold War-era topics so the following highlights are mostly from the older broadcasts.  On McCarthy, Schieffer explains how blacklists publications like Aware and Red Channels influenced CBS's hiring process (p. 19).  One story I have never heard before was that Ed Sullivan wanted to be a respected news journalist and hoped that interviewing Castro (the same day as FTN's interview with the Cuban dictator) would help him be taken seriously in that department by Edward R. Murrow.  Sullivan was so impressed by Castro that he donated a 10,000 check to the dictator (Sullivan was soon persuaded to put a stop on the check) (p. 43).  Another highlight was the Vietnam chapter and how a long parade of government officials interviewed misled the public (either out of ignorance or intentional deception) as to America's progress in southeast Asia.  In more recent news, Schieffer humorously describes Al Gore's attempt to seem more down-to-earth on FTN by being interviewed in a vegetable market in casual, farmer garb.  Schieffer points out that the soles of Gore's boots were clean as a whistle (p. 124).  The book is a quick read through the main news items in the second half of the 20th century.  It includes many photos.<br /><br />The DVD shows shorts clips of the following: McCarthy, Krushchev, Castro, Roy Wilkens, Martin Luther King, Jr., George Wallace, Hubert Humphrey, Dean Rusk, Melvin Laird, Eleanor Roosevelt, Margaret Chase Smith, Ike, JFK, LBJ, Nixon, Ford, Carter, Reagan, George Bush, Clinton, George W. Bush, candidates McGovern, Dukakis, Perot, Dole, Gore, McCain, Edwards, Dean, and Kerry.  On the Clinton story are Clinton's lawyer Bob Bennett and Monica's lawyer William Ginsburg among others and discussing 9/11 are Hillary Clinton, Colin Powell, Donald Rumsfeld, etc.  Members of the CBS news team cover the Iraq war and Schieffer offers a final thought.  I was a little disappointed that the DVD did not offer more of the early interviews than the shorts clips I saw on television promoting the book.  Still it is 2 hours long and adds a star to the score.  It greatly enhances the book to see some of these interviews in the flesh.s clips I saw on television promoting the book.  Still it is 2 hours long and adds a star to the score.  It greatly enhances the book to see some of these interviews in the flesh.	2005-04-18
US	51752008	R3DSP9KE2Z316I	1594200351	803168949	The Last Season: A Team In Search of Its Soul	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	"Teamwork is a nebulous thing"	I bought this book because I am one of those Laker haters for the same reason I am also one of those Yankee haters; I root against teams that win all the time and that are favorites to win a world championship year after year.  Before the 2003/04 NBA season, I grimaced when I first heard the Lakers were getting Karl Malone and Gary Payton.  I thought it was the rich getting richer and a lot of sports analysts thought so too as they were almost giving the NBA title to LA before the season started and some believed this Lakers squad could challenge Phil Jackson's Chicago Bulls' regular season win record.  I was disappointed that Malone joined the Lakers.  After spending one of the longest and most successful careers in Utah (a place in which a lot of players wouldn't want to stay), he jumps on the wagon that appears to be on the fastest, easiest  route to a championship (again, the rich get richer).  That seemed like an almost traitorous way to win one's only title, so I'm glad it did not happen.  I bought Jackson's The Last Season to savor in the Lakers' \\"demise\\" (well, they did get to the finals which, after game 2 of the San Antonio series, a lot of people, including myself, did not think was possible, so spoiled Laker fans shouldn't be too bummed).    Right on the first page, Jackson writes that he \\"didn't want this book to be about the small petty gossip that makes up a lot of the NBA world\\" (p. 1).  Don't worry, there is plenty of gossip in this book.  He does not bore the reader with X's and O's, although there is some strategy explained when discussing different match-ups.  A lot of this book is about Jackson's relationship with owner Jerry Buss, general manager Mitch Kupchak, opinions on such NBA spokesmen as Dallas Maverick's coach Mark Cuban, Rick Fox and Karl Malone's frustration over injuries, Gary Payton's tantrums about the triangle offense, and, of course, the on-going feud between Kobe and Shaq.  The book is written like a journal but is very comprehensive and flows very well.  I was fascinated by the behind-the-scenes look at the Lakers organization.  Their preparation for games I found to be very interesting.  At one point in the season, Jackson exposed his players to an aspect of his Buddhist beliefs with a meditation session (Jackson admits he does not think it affected most of the players).  He also had clips from the movies Shrek or Miracle on Ice inserted in their film sessions (p. 191).  Jackson is candid about Kobe's ball-hogging tendencies and Shaq's abysmal free throw shooting.  During the Houston series in the playoffs, Shaq practiced shooting free throws from a foot back which Jackson thought was less than constructive (p. 162).  Often, Jackson compares his Laker teams unfavorably to his Bulls teams in terms of preparation and attitude towards the game.  Jackson's complaints throughout the book on everything from game start times (p. 95), fines (p. 96), and foul calls (many pages) made me think the coach of the Sacramento Kings wrote the book.    Of course, Shaq and Kobe is the draw to this book, and Jackson does not disappoint the readers.  A lot of the petty squabbles are described here.  Some of the high lights include Kobe and Shaq only wanting certain photographers (the opposite for each) filming them during practice (p. 110).  The Lakers helped pay for Kobe's flights to Colorado for his hearings and Kobe complained the plane was not luxurious enough (p. 32).  One of the bad omens in the Detroit series was Shaq blowing up at 82-year-old assistant coach Tex Winter (pp. 232-33).  Then, in the end, Kobe tells Jackson he no longer wants to be Shaq's \\"sidekick\\" thus completing the stage for Shaq's exit (p. 258).  Jackson visited a therapist to help him deal with the Shaq/Kobe factor.  Of course, Jackson probably only covers the tip of the iceberg, but it still makes for fascinating reading. Check out this eyebrow-raising line: \\"This was another example of the basic difference between him [Shaq] andKobe. Ask Shaq to do something and he'll say: \\"No, I don't want to do that.\\" But after a little pouting, he will do it.  Ask Kobe, and he'll say, \\"okay,\\" and then he will do whatever he wants\\" (p. 38). After reading this book, I cannot believe the rumors that Jasckson will return as coach of the Lakers.  No way.  But, then again, after reading Terrell Owens' book, I never would've guessed he would fire his beloved agent and seek a new contract with Philly, so one never knows.  Whether you are a Laker hater, a Laker fan, or are just fascinated with the personalities of the NBA, I definitely recommend this book.	2005-04-11
US	51752008	R28NZQCUJOIU8L	078670621X	104115308	Endurance: Shackleton's Incredible Voyage	Books	5	19	21	N	N	"Man proposes [God disposes]" ---diary entry	Endurance by Alfred Lansing was first published in 1959.  The copy I have is a 26th printing which indicates how popular this book has been.  It is an adventure story that is entirely historical.  It covers the 1914/15 attempt of explorer Sir Ernest Shackleton and his crew of 27 to be the first to cross the Antarctic continent overland west to east.  This goal was interrupted for good when their ship, the Endurance, became trapped in ice in the Weddell Sea.  The call for adventure soon became a constant struggle for survival that lasted ten months.  The crew set up camp on various ice floes only to be forced to move when the dreaded cracks appeared.  Their progress towards land is controlled by the direction and force of the gales.  Conditions change almost daily in the chaotic and brutal Antarctic climate.  When the ice floes were no longer an option, the crew set out in three small boats taken on the voyage hoping to find land.  Once land was found, the crew split up as six members took one of the small boats into the dreaded Drake Passage in the hopes of finding help.  Both groups were in danger of not surviving the unforgiving environment. <br /> <br />Lansing bases his work on interviews with survivors and the waterlogged diaries several of them kept.  He is thus able to provide the reader with details of the crew's day-to-day life.  Everything from the personalities of various members to their diets, clothing, attempts at building shelters, etc. are described.  I do not have knowledge of seafaring vocabulary or conditions, but Lansing is able to describe such things as the pressure caused by broken floes of ice (p.47) in a clear manner.  As an historical event, this story needs no poetic license.  It is one of the most suspenseful history books I have read.  Just when things looked good for the crew, the tide turned and vice versa. After reading what all these 28 men went through, the ending, although surprisingly brief, was very moving. <br /> <br />The onlypart of the book that disappointed me was the ending.  I wanted to know what happened to some of the main characters after their ordeal.  The epilogue just covers the attempt to rescue the 22 members left on Elephant Island and goes no further.  It seemed unfair to leave the story like that.  Despite this shortcoming, I definitely recommend this book to anyone interested in historical adventure.  It is one of the best books of that ilk one will read.  One interesting note: Shackleton's goal was not achieved until 1958, 40 years after Shackleton set out on the Endurance and a year before this book was first published.  It is 282 pages and includes a short section of b&w photos and illustrations.	2005-04-04
US	51752008	R1FC8WYZD44FKT	0060766123	58537477	A Deadly Game: The Untold Story of the Scott Peterson Investigation	Books	4	51	54	N	N	"sociopathic behavior can be found anywhere in our society"	Now that Judge Delucchi imposed the formal death sentence on Scott Peterson, many intrigued by the case will be looking for books to recap the investigation and trial that led to Peterson receiving the harshest penalty for killing his wife Laci and unborn son Conner.  Catherine Crier's A Deadly Game is the most detailed and informative Peterson book out right now.  It certainly blows Amber Frey's scant and fluffy book out of the water.  Crier's work is 436 pages of text with details from the investigation previously unseen by the media and jury, including a photo section in the back of previously unpublished evidence files.  Crier uses her vast resources as a Court TV journalist to provide an important work that will impress even the most devoted Peterson case follower. <br /> <br />First Crier covers Peterson's early deceit with other girlfriends that set the stage for the many lies to come, then she plunges into the investigation demonstrating reasons why officer Al Brocchini became suspicious of Scott from the start.  Little details that would have been missed by most observers (i.e. the oddly located indentation left in the Peterson bed, pg. 19) were red flags to Brocchini.  In the early chapters, I, as the reader, could sense Peterson's assumptions of getting away with the crime crumble before his eyes.  Peterson obviously did not anticipate the case taking on a life of its own, with the massive search parties looking for Laci and his house and office being closed to him for a time for investigative purposes.  Conversations between Peterson and the investigators are revealed here with some details published for the first time (Scott wanted a receipt for items of his and Laci to be used by search dogs) as well as information considered prejudicial for the jury (one porno site on Scott's laptop was entitled \\"Raping the Teacher\\").  This book focuses on the investigators in the case and clearly shows how their work in the first twenty-four hours were one of the keyelements in the ultimate conviction (for example, Scott moved a lot of evidence from his truck and around his house after the initial meeting with Brocchini).   <br /> <br />The one qualm I have is that there is a lot of repetition in this book, even in the first chapters.  I lost count at how many times Crier noted that the dog McKenzie was given to Scott as a present from Laci.  It probably could be condensed to a less bulky work and be just, if not more, revealing.  Still, this book is rich in information that anyone considering a career in police investigation should read.  Catherine Crier knows her stuff.	2005-03-17
US	51752008	R2R421KUQXJ0L6	0809324903	836321675	Chicago Death Trap: The Iroquois Theatre Fire of 1903	Books	4	5	5	N	N	"There is much graft in firetraps"---Fireproof, Nov. 1903	In Chicago Death Trap, Nat Brandt presents a very human account of the fire that killed over 600 people in Chicago's newly-built Iroquois Theatre December 30, 1903.  It remains the worst fire in United State's history (p. 86).  Brandt's fast-moving 147-page account covers the rush to build the theatre for the holiday seasons, the play Mr. Bluebeard and its players that was showing that tragic afternoon as well as a brief look at the theatrical syndicate system, the horror that was unleashed during the December 30 matinee, the rescue efforts, the aftermath, the fate of the Iroquois building, and a brief chapter on memorials to the tragedy.  Brandt, for the most part, is very thorough in his account, particularly the technical workings and structural makeup of the theatre and its equipment including a detailed description of how the light that caused the fire worked (p. 30). He also puts the event in context with other fires in Chicago's history, a fictitious story in a 1875 Chicago Tribune about a theatre fire, and concern the Mayor of Chicago had regarding fire safety in theatres just a month before (pp. 8-9, 101). <br /> <br />A lot of names are mentioned in this book, but not just those of famous people like the owners and architect of the theatre and Eddie Foy, the comedian who tried to calm the crowd during the early stages of the fire.  Brandt also describes the many ordinary people who would be victims of the lack of safeguards in the new theatre.   As is mentioned early in the book, the shopping district where the Iroquois resided was seen as a safe haven for women and children and, during the matinee presentation, most of the audience comprised of women and children (over 400 of the 600 deaths were female).  Sometimes it is difficult to keep track of all of the names, but the point being made of how horrible the tragedy was (bodies stacked ten feet high in front of locked exit doors) is clear no matter the names.  Thirteen pages of photos of fire victims taken from a 1904 book seemed a bit superfluous and only interesting to those related to a victim.  The first section of photos and illustrations showing the theatre's design and how it looked just following the disaster are more useful. <br /> <br />Although this book presents a very human account of the event, the most interesting aspect of the story, to me, were the scores of fire safety violations found at the Iroquois.  \\"Sacrificing safety for beauty,\\" exit doors were camouflaged by heavy drapes, buckets of water were not set near the stage, temporary exit signs were not up while the permanent signs were still being made, doors had confusing European style bolts that not even the staff knew how to work, and so on.  The sky vents which would have caused the noxious fumes to lift out of the theatre were still bound and thus not operational.  Witness saw the bindings to these vents being pulled after the fire (p. 117).  Brandt should have explained the importance of the asbestos curtain better as \\"asbestos\\" is such an ugly word today.  Asbestos was used for its fire proof properties and, only a few decades ago, projection booths in movie houses had an asbestos covering so that, if the highly flammable type film that was used at the time caught fire, only the projection booth would burn.   <br /> <br />The Iroquois story proves very maddening as, though fire regulations changed in Chicago and throughout the nation because of the event, none of the people involved in the building of the play house and in its being cleared to open were punished.   Aside from the initial shock, people like co-owners William Davis and Harry Powers and architect Benjamin Marshall were satisfied with the theatre's structure (it still stood) and, in the beginning, even blamed the victim's state of panic as the cause of so many lost lives (p. 97).  Marshall went on to have a successful career and the Iroquois was not even mentioned in his obituary.  What is even more disappointing is that somany memorials to the tragedy have been lost.  Luckily, Brandt's book as well as several others are available so readers can learn about what happened on the current site of the Ford Center for the Performing Arts Oriental Theatre.	2005-03-15
US	51752008	RB2PC4ABR6CUG	031231292X	421728897	The Kennedy Curse: Why Tragedy Has Haunted America's First Family for 150 Years	Books	3	51	56	N	N	"Nobody in my family needs insurance"---Joe Kennedy Jr.	I picked up The Kennedy Curse by Edward Klein with much skepticism.  The title, as well as the subject matter, suggested a  book taken from the gossip pages of the newsstand rags.   The early and rare Kennedy family photos on the cover and in the illustrated section of the book sparked my interested and I decided to give The Kennedy Curse a chance.  There is plenty of gossip and sexually lurid details in this book, of course, but I was more struck by how well-written and researched it is.  Klein covered JFK's 1960 political campaign and had interviewed many Kennedys through the decades and was a friend of Jacqueline Onassis for over a dozen years.  Klein demonstrates more credibility than I expected and his writing style presents a book that is a joy to read and difficult to put down. <br /> <br />Klein clearly states the premise of his book: \\"The Kennedy Curse is the result of the destructive collision between the Kennedys' fantasy of omnipotence-their need to get away with things that others cannot-and the cold, hard realities of life\\" (p. 23).   According to Klein, this \\"curse\\" stemming from some narcissistic, thrill-seeking gene originated several generations up the Kennedy family tree.  He begins his book with a chapter on Patrick Kennedy (JFK's great grandfather)  who arrived in America from the famine-stricken Ireland in 1849.  On the other side of the family, Klein next covers John Francis Fitzgerald \\"Honey Fitz\\" (JFK's grandfather) who was an ambitious politician and mayor of Boston.  The other chapters cover Joseph P. Kennedy, Kathleen \\"Kick\\" Kennedy, JFK, William Kennedy Smith, and JFK Jr.  Klein focuses on the most controversial aspects of the lives he examines.  Joseph P. Kennedy's harshness and Nazi leanings are described (one error I found was that Klein referred to Hermann Goering as Hitler's propaganda minister when, of course, it was actually Josef Goebbels, p. 111).  Kathleen is painted in a little more positive light but is still shown as a conniving social climber out to get the Marquess of Hartington and, later, a married man.  The sexual exploits of JFK and William Kennedy Smith are described in sordid detail (the 17-page chapter on JFK is almost completely on his sexual conquests while in office).  Ted Kennedy appears as a dirty old man in the Smith chapter.  The friction between JFK Jr. and Jackie O and, especially, the drug  problems and emotional outbursts of wife Carolyn Bassette are the focus of the final chapter as well as the introduction.  In fact, Bassette is painted in the worst light of all. <br /> <br />As well-written and interesting as this book is, the weaknesses are clear.  There is no chapter on Chappaquiddick (only a few mentions) and hardly anything on RFK and his assassination.  These two events probably sparked the idea of a \\"curse\\" more than anything else save, perhaps, for JFK Jr.'s plane crash.  I also do not think Klein drove the \\"curse\\" premise home.  Klein tries to demonstrate that it is the narcissism in the Kennedy family that brings about their misfortunes.  If JFK was not so lackadaisical in security, he would have  been better protected in Dallas or may not have made the trip at all.  If JFK Jr. was not so bent on risky behavior to prove his worth, he would not have flown in poor weather July 16, 1999 and so on.  A \\"curse,\\" to me, seems to suggest that the Kennedys have no control in their downfall and that their fate is predestined.  But, a lot of the family tragedies stem from their choices.  Klein would state that it is the \\"curse\\" that determines their poor, sometimes fatal, choices, but I do not buy that.  Kennedy apologists will jump on the idea that William Kennedy Smith, Ted Kennedy, etc. cannot help their deviant behavior because it is a family \\"curse.\\"  Most high profile families have tragedies on a higher scale than most (i.e. the Gettys).  The Kennedys command much more media attention than most powerful families, so their trials and tribulations are always front page news. When one is rich and powerful and can have anything one wants, the successes are great and so are the potential pitfalls.  Klein, to me, does not prove there is a \\"curse,\\" and he certainly does not demonstrate that it began with Patrick Kennedy (who died young of tuberculosis) and Honey Fitz who had troubled times as all people do but nothing to suggest an evil affliction had been set.  Caroline Schlossberg seems to be doing well and I don't think it is because she is breaking a \\"curse,\\" she just conducts herself with dignity and does not become reckless with power.  Although style-wise the book is well-written and a breeze to read, content-wise I found it to be lacking and not backing up the premise Klein so vehemently states.	2005-03-07
US	51752008	R3VVX1XOC1JV4B	1551091267	15875305	Town That Died (Nimbus classics)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	"Looks like the end of the whole bloody world, don't it?"	The Town That Died was first published in 1962 and covered the explosion of the  French freighter Mont Blanc on December 6, 1917 that nearly obliterated the Canadian town of Halifax.  The Mont Blanc was a \\"floating munitions dump\\" carrying an incredibly large amount of explosive material to aid the allied armies during the First World War.  The freighter collided with the Norwegian ship Imo on their way through the Narrows (a mile long, 500-yard wide channel connecting Bedford Basin with Halifax Harbor). The Mont Blanc caught fire and within 20 minutes or so (the book is not specific on this point) the ship blew up in, what the Michael Bird states in his book's subtitle, \\"the world's greatest man-made explosion before Hiroshima.\\" Bird uses many primary sources including interviews, journals, and letters from survivors as well as those involved at the harbor and in rescue efforts including official reports of naval lieutenants and records of the investigation that followed. <br /> <br />Bird follows the events of December 6, 1917 and its aftermath through the eyes of several survivors including a young woman who worked at a nearby factory, a junior at the nearby naval college, and a girl who would lose her entire family as well as her father, who was not in Halifax at the time, who presumed she had died with the others.  Sometimes, especially at the beginning, Bird skips very abruptly to each of the stories which makes it a little difficult to follow at times, but the stories become more familiar towards the end.  Bird does an excellent job detailing the events that took place on the Mont Blanc and the Imo right up to and immediately following the collision. Bird also gives a vivid description of the explosion itself with information on how rocks from the seabed were scooped up and hurled down and that a  ton shank from an anchor was flung two miles, how earth tremors caused church bells to swing sixty miles away, and \\"the enormous, mutated mushroom\\" that appeared foreshadowing another tremendous explosion nearly thirty years later.  The human images of the tragedy are also very moving, especially the horrible sight the factory worker encountered when she saw a soldier who lost the center of his mouth and both eyes with one dangling down from his empty eye socket and tapping against his cheek (p. 122). <br /> <br />The book is 187 pages organized into nine chapters and a very brief epilogue.  My copy has three sections of b&w photos. The first three chapters cover the events leading up to the collision, chapter 4 details the collision itself, chapter 5 covers the explosion, chapter six is made up almost entirely of reports from lieutenants on rescue efforts followed by brief background information provided by the author, while chapter 7 continues the stories of the survivors and includes a letter written the day after the explosion.  An interview in the Halifax Herald with a naval officer, who was in San Francisco during the 1906 earthquake, giving advice on how to deal with looters and bootleggers (Halifax was a dry town) was an interesting addition to the story and demonstrates the extracurricular problems Halifax had to deal with in addition to the ruined buildings and the thousands dead and injured.  Chapter 8 provides more coverage of the rescue efforts with excerpts from newspapers. The final chapter deals with the blame issue (there was an anti-German backlash) and the investigation which, Bird explains, exhibited an anti-French bias against the crew on the Mont Blanc. The Epilogue presents final tabulations on the casualties and other costs of the tragedy as well as awards given to rescue workers and the fate of the Imo. <br /> <br />For the most part, the book, while short, is thorough.  There are some areas on which Bird does not follow up.  He mentions the importance of the close fraternity of pilots in Halifax who prevented outsiders from coming in and easing their growing wartime workload, but only touches on thistopic again during the investigation chapter.  The reports of several survivors on hearing two explosions (reminds me of the Lusitania) is not elaborated upon.  The many names of ships damaged in the explosion became a little burdensome.  Also, the chapter on the investigation seemed to focus on one area of contention between the prosecution and Chief Commanding Officer Wyatt that, to me, did not seem that important (whether Wyatt ordered men from the dockyard for fear the magazine would ignite and explode).  Bird describes what appears to be unfair and bias results of the investigation and what happened in the end.  The blame issue never seemed to be fully resolved.  Bird gives some detail on the post-explosion lives of the main participants but not a lot just as he does not present a lot of background information.  The book is dated and there are probably more comprehensive books on this subject out there but, The Town That Died is a moving, well-written, quick account of an incredible, and unfortunately forgotten, event.	2005-03-01
US	51752008	R1C6THV6SNXN6	0743249704	31452280	Catch This!: Going Deep with the NFL's Sharpest Weapon	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	"The NFL can't deal with me"---T.O.	Anyone who thinks Terrell Owens is a typical spoiled, arrogant wide receiver cut from the same cloth as Randy Moss and Keyshawn Johnson needs to read this book.  Reading his autobiography has given me a whole new perspective on one of the most controversial figures in the NFL.  In Catch This!, Owens reveals himself as a god-fearing, hard-working man, tremendously loyal to his family, faith, and friends, and appreciative of what he has received on his quest to be a champion.  Owens describes his strict upbringing in a financially strained family whose mother and grandmother found a way to get by working long hours at a factory in Alabama.  Once Owens became focused on football, his tireless workout schedule (no steroids here!) in high school, the University of Tennessee, Chattanooga, and in the pros made him into the physical specimen that would dominate NFL defenses and headlines.  Much of what he has gone through physically, emotionally, mentally, and spiritually during his rise to the top is detailed in this book. <br /> <br />T.O. spares no punches when he tackles the main controversies of his career up to when he joined the Philadelphia Eagles.  The Dallas star, the Sharpie, the Greg Knapp blow-up, his relationship with Steve Mariucci and Jeff Garcia, and the contract mess preceding his trade to Philly are all told here in what appears to be frank honesty.  When ESPN covered Owens' negotiations between the SF 49ers, Baltimore Ravens, and  Philadelphia Eagles, I thought at the time that T.O.'s agent must be incompetent to miss the deadline to void his client's contract.  This book changed my mind.  T.O. also clearly states his problems with Ozzie Newsome: \\"The next-to-last thing I wanted to do was holdout.  The last thing I wanted to do was play for Ozzie Newsome\\" (p. 262).  He also presents an interesting inside look at the 49ers organization and former teammates like Steve Young and his idol Jerry Rice (in fact, T.O. reveals a disagreement he has with some words of advice J.R. gave him, pg. 95).  <br /> <br />The only thing that bugs me about this book, and many T.O. interviews I've seen, is how Owens always tries to paint himself as the victim.  He seems to come off as if he thinks he's the only one who gets hassled by the \\"No Fun League\\" and the media for his celebrations, and free attitude (I think New Orleans' Joe Horn received more negative press than he did after the cell phone incident).  Owens' complaints about team meetings, studying film, and NFL fines for uniform violations may cause some readers to roll their eyes.  T.O. does do an excellent job describing the difference in attitudes towards players between the NBA and the NFL (p. 5).  He also gives exciting descriptions of the most pivotal games that help the reader relive some of the action of a few years ago. <br /> <br />Anyone intrigued by Terrell Owens (positively or negatively) needs to read this book, especially 49er fans interested in his relationship with coach Mariucci, which is referred to here a lot.  The rift, which began during his 1999 contract negotiations and met its nadir during the 2001 season when T.O. and \\"Mooch\\" communicated through assistant coach George Stewart, must have really left a mark on T.O., as he even mentions the relationship in a statement to a Senate subcommittee advocating increased funding for Alzheimer's research (Owens' grandmother has the disease) (p. 268).  I ran across a photo of a mask Mariucci decorated for a charity event while searching the Internet, and he designed it with the three themes T.O. subscribes to: faith, family, and football (Mariucci added a fourth \\"F,\\" fettucine), so maybe they had more in common than they thought.  Beneath all the controversial issues, though,  Catch This! sets the record straight and reveals Terrell Owens as not just a great football player but as an upstanding human being.	2005-02-26
US	51752008	R1AJHZ1A1IB79S	0563369752	425112398	Keeping Up Appearances: Hyacinth Bucket's Book of Etiquette for the Socially Less Fortunate	Books	4	15	15	N	N	"the practical socialite thinks of everything"	This tastefully designed Book of Etiquette reveals the invaluable advice of Keeping Up Appearances Hyacinth Bucket who has waged \\"eternal vigilance against encroaching tides of indelicacy\\" to make her suburban district \\"one of the most sought-after postal codes in the land.\\" The book is written in the voice of Hyacinth herself as she answers letters from her myriad of admirers. In this book, the aspiring hostess will learn how to organize a candlelight supper, from designing the proper, embossed, mantelpiece-worthy invitations and planning appropriate seating arrangements to maintaining high standards in the quality of one's bathroom linen. Other topics concern ways to deal with tradesmen, the proper use of the telephone, how to maintain a healthy body and mind, one's role in organized religion and charity work, what books and art to appreciate for a proper cultural education, and the importance of wearing the correct hat. The book is filled with scores of photos from the BBC comedy as well as many references to the many tricky situations Hyacinth encounters-and conquers, of course-in the show.  I am removing a star from the score because much of the book is made up of recaps of episodes that most KUA fans have seen many times; however, fans will enjoy the extras tidbits offered here, such as Hyacinth comparing her sisters' personalities to their flowery names, and what attracted her to Richard. There is even a photo of Sheridan (well, sort of).  <br /> <br />This book is very well-written and beautifully-designed and not the rush job a lot of these television related books tend to be. There is even an index of topics in the back. Clive Swift (Richard) even remarked on how impressed he was in the book during the Peppermill interview with Patricia Routledge (available as an extra on the DVD \\"Living the Hyacinth Life\\"). A must for any fan and remember \\"keeping up appearances is not the most important thing in life, it is the only thing.\\"	2005-02-18
US	51752008	R2MQLROQ58H2LV	0805069461	176251654	James Buchanan: The American Presidents Series: The 15th President, 1857-1861	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	"physically & politically, he had only one farsighted eye"	This is the first book of the American Presidents series that I have read.  It is, as editor Arthur Schlesinger notes, \\"compact enough for the busy reader, lucid enough for the student, authoritative enough for the scholar.\\" In this 152-page work, Jean Baker examines the reasons Buchanan, while one of the most politically qualified men to take the office of President, failed to keep the Union strong during the country's most crucial period in its history.    Baker describes Buchanan's early life and career.  He served in the House of Representative, the U.S. Senate, was Minister of Russia under President Jackson, Secretary of State for James K. Polk, and Minister to Great Britain in President Pierce's administration (she covers the latter position fairly thoroughly), and had even been offered a seat on the Supreme Court (he rejected it).  He had better political credentials than most presidents before or since and, on the surface, appeared to be the ideal president to handle the increasingly dangerous situation between the North and the South.  He was a Unionist but also a states rights man and he represented the one political institution that still had a following both North and South; the Democratic party.  Baker clearly demonstrates the reasons Buchanan was not the right man to save the Union.      A few of Buchanan's leadership weaknesses covered include his hostile opinion of abolitionist groups that were fairly powerful even in his home state of Pennsylvania, his cavalier attitude towards the emerging Republican party (he called it a \\"geographical\\" and \\"dangerous\\" party which; an attitude that, in Bakers opinion,  contributed to the growing schism between the North and South), his unrelenting loyalty towards his southern friends, and his arrogance in his own political abilities to save the Union.  The author divides Buchanan's Presidency into three parts: the economic panic of 1857, crisis in Utah's Mormon community, and the near-war developing in the Kansas territory.  The latter topic receives the most attention.  Buchanan's unwavering support of the minority, pro-slavery Lecompton government clearly demonstrates where Buchanan's loyalties lay, alienating northern Democrats and even prompting a House investigation (p. 113).  It is important to note that Buchanan had moral objections to slavery but did not believe the peculiar institution was worth endangering the Union.  Even more revealing is what Buchanan did, or did not do, during the interim before Lincoln's inauguration.        Baker shows that Buchanan was not a do-nothing President as some critics maintain, but a very active executive of the model of Jackson and Polk.  He acted, however, for one side.  Baker saves her harshest criticism for the end: \\"Buchanan's failing during the crisis over the Union was not inactivity, but rather his partiality for the South, a favoritism that bordered on disloyalty in an officer pledged to defend all the United States\\" (141).  She implies that a different reaction to the events at Fort Sumter could have saved the Union; a position that is impossible to prove.  Not very significant but one statement: \\"Buchanan was the last Democratic president for twenty-four years, until Grover Cleveland was elected in 1884\\" is incorrect without the qualification \\"last `elected' Democratic president\\" as Andrew Johnson was a Democrat (p. 119)  For the most part, the book is clearly written; however, some areas (i.e. the difference between Buchanan's views on slavery versus Stephen A. Douglas' popular sovereignty) could have been better explained.  The reader will need some background knowledge to fully understand this book. She does an excellent job, however, using Buchanan's upbringing and social habits to explain his affinity towards the South.  She mentions his bachelorhood and alleged homosexuality but does not dwell on them.  In my opinion, the author is tough on her subject but also fair.  I recommend this book to anyone interested in Buchanan or the political situation on the brink of the Civil War yet does not have the time to read massive volumes.	2005-02-18
US	51752008	RERAGUI1Y7HTK	0807050202	650257865	Dark Tide: The Great Boston Molasses Flood of 1919	Books	5	2	2	N	N	"the product of world conditions"	Dark Tide by Stephen Puleo details the molasses flood that devastated the Commercial Street area in Boston on January 15, 1919.  A fifty-foot tall steel tank owned by United States Industrial Alcohol Company (USIA) collapsed and unleashed 2.3 million gallons of molasses on the congested waterfront district in a fifteen-foot-high wave moving as fast as thirty-five miles per hour.  Incredible structural damage resulted as well as over one hundred injuries and a score of deaths.  I had never heard of this tragedy until I ran across this book as an Amazon.com recommendation.  It seems odd to me that this event is not more widely known due to its unusual nature.  Puleo explains that it was considered an \\"isolated event not connected with larger trends in American history\\" (x).  The author sets out to make these connections throughout his book.  The story of January 15, 1919 and its aftermath is interwoven with the most important headlines of the day.      Puleo expertly connects the molasses flood to the Great War (the USIA was distilling molasses for industrial alcohol used in munitions production), anarchism and the Red Scare (the tank was built in a southern Italian district), Prohibition, and the pro-Big Business administrations of Warren Harding and Calvin Coolidge.  The author also demonstrates, mostly through the deposition of the USIA assistant treasurer responsible for the tank's construction, the unbelievably rushed and careless manner in which the tank was built.  It leaked profusely from the outset.  Workers near the tank, even the children in the community, noticed the leaks but the company responded only by occasionally re-caulking the plates and rivets and painting the tank molasses color to make the leaks less noticeable.    A moving account of the human suffering resulting from the bursting tank follows as well as a detailed look at the long trial and the verdicts and damages awarded.  The author shows a lot of respect for Judge Ogden and, unfortunately,gives away the verdict in a caption under his photo before the section on the trial.  The defense's argument was that the tank was exploded by anarchists (the trial coincided with incidents of anarchist violence as well as the trial of Sacco and Vanzetti).  Puleo ends with the direct short-term and long-term effects of the Boston molasses flood.  His view that the verdict marked a change in America's attitude towards Big Business; a trend that led to the election of Franklin Roosevelt, seemed a stretch, but the other more local ramifications were important and makes one wonder further why this tragedy is not more well-known.  A list of the deceased, biographical essay, and index are included as well as a few photos (mostly taken on the scene of the flood's destructive wake).    My biggest criticism is that Puleo often describes what is going on in the minds of the people involved which, for a historical book, is always a dicey thing to do.  He does not follow-up on Isaac Gonzales.  He is introduced right at the beginning as the \\"general man\\" of the Boston tank that was haunted by fear that the leaking tank would explode.  He finally had to leave his job and move to Ohio.  He apparently gave testimony at the trial, but Puleo offers no excerpts from it, nor is there any word on Gonzales' reaction when finding out his greatest fear became reality.  Gonzales was not listed among those on which Puleo followed-up (no fault of the author's if no information was available) but it would have been nice to read a post-flood statement from Gonzales and have the book go full circle.  Despite these minor complaints, Dark Tide is a clearly written, thorough account of a little known tragedy that has more connection to the historical fabric of the country than a lot of tragedies that have gone on into legend.	2005-01-26
US	51752008	R3JL73XQT2J4D8	0807050210	650257865	Dark Tide: The Great Boston Molasses Flood of 1919	Books	5	55	56	N	N	"the product of world conditions"	Dark Tide by Stephen Puleo details the molasses flood that devastated the Commercial Street area in Boston on January 15, 1919.  A fifty-foot tall steel tank owned by United States Industrial Alcohol Company (USIA) collapsed and unleashed 2.3 million gallons of molasses on the congested waterfront district in a fifteen-foot-high wave moving as fast as thirty-five miles per hour.  Incredible structural damage resulted as well as over one hundred injuries and a score of deaths.  I had never heard of this tragedy until I ran across this book as an Amazon.com recommendation.  It seems odd to me that this event is not more widely known due to its unusual nature.  Puleo explains that it was considered an \\"isolated event not connected with larger trends in American history\\" (x).  The author sets out to make these connections throughout his book.  The story of January 15, 1919 and its aftermath is interwoven with the most important headlines of the day.      Puleo expertly connects the molasses flood to the Great War (the USIA was distilling molasses for industrial alcohol used in munitions production), anarchism and the Red Scare (the tank was built in a southern Italian district), Prohibition, and the pro-Big Business administrations of Warren Harding and Calvin Coolidge.  The author also demonstrates, mostly through the deposition of the USIA assistant treasurer responsible for the tank's construction, the unbelievably rushed and careless manner in which the tank was built.  It leaked profusely from the outset.  Workers near the tank, even the children in the community, noticed the leaks but the company responded only by occasionally re-caulking the plates and rivets and painting the tank molasses color to make the leaks less noticeable.    A moving account of the human suffering resulting from the bursting tank follows as well as a detailed look at the long trial and the verdicts and damages awarded.  The author shows a lot of respect for Judge Ogden and, unfortunately,gives away the verdict in a caption under his photo before the section on the trial.  The defense's argument was that the tank was exploded by anarchists (the trial coincided with incidents of anarchist violence as well as the trial of Sacco and Vanzetti).  Puleo ends with the direct short-term and long-term effects of the Boston molasses flood.  His view that the verdict marked a change in America's attitude towards Big Business; a trend that led to the election of Franklin Roosevelt, seemed a stretch, but the other more local ramifications were important and makes one wonder further why this tragedy is not more well-known.  A list of the deceased, biographical essay, and index are included as well as a few photos (mostly taken on the scene of the flood's destructive wake).    My biggest criticism is that Puleo often describes what is going on in the minds of the people involved which, for a historical book, is always a dicey thing to do.  He does not follow-up on Isaac Gonzales.  He is introduced right at the beginning as the \\"general man\\" of the Boston tank that was haunted by fear that the leaking tank would explode.  He finally had to leave his job and move to Ohio.  He apparently gave testimony at the trial, but Puleo offers no excerpts from it, nor is there any word on Gonzales' reaction when finding out his greatest fear became reality.  Gonzales was not listed among those on which Puleo followed-up (no fault of the author's if no information was available) but it would have been nice to read a post-flood statement from Gonzales and have the book go full circle.  Despite these minor complaints, Dark Tide is a clearly written, thorough account of a little known tragedy that has more connection to the historical fabric of the country than a lot of tragedies that have gone on into legend.	2005-01-26
US	51752008	R58T7W6BONXJW	0060799250	42714979	Witness: For the Prosecution of Scott Peterson	Books	1	22	26	N	N	Wait for the Bargain Bin	The first thing that struck me when I picked up Witness: To the Prosecution, was how thin it is; a little over 200 pages.  Next, I noticed a lot of dark peaking through the closed book, an indication of lots of illustrations.  There are a lot of photographs.  They are not just in one section of the book but are throughout.  Many of them are glossy color photos which was a nice treat but a lot of them were common photos that were shown on television during the investigation and trial.  There were a few photos I had not seen, but most of them were just of Amber; modeling shots, a glamour photo taken when she was 18, etc.  There is even a photo of a letter she READ over the phone to Scott (she did not even send it to him).  Then I noticed that towards the back is transcript of a phone conversation in fairly good size print, as is the print of the text throughout the book.  This transcript is all over the Internet and was shown on television ad nauseam.  The result is a very skimpy book that takes very little time to read and does not deliver much new information.  Anything that is new is about Amber herself but, let's face it, who is buying this book to learn just about Amber?  The reason this book sells is because people are interested in a behind-the-scenes look at Amber's relationship with Scott Peterson that was not brought up in the trial.  I cannot believe that Amber Frey does not have new insight to fill up a 200-page book even without all the photos and medium size print.  If you've lived in a cave for the past year, this book will be intriguing but if you are like me and watched Nancy Grace analyze this case almost every night for months on Court TV, you will be left wondering why this book was published save for the obvious monetary reasons.  Wait for this book to end up in the bargain bin but, even then, it may not be worth it.	2005-01-20
US	51752008	R2PDGP940352R4	0831770740	491121179	The Presidents of the United States	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Our shortest term president gets no respect	I have several books on the presidents and this one is one of the least impressive.  Most of the early presidents (especially the less significant ones) get scant attention; one small portrait and a photo of campaign memorabilia.  The text on these presidents amounts to a small column.  More recent and well-known presidents get an extra couple pages of coverage and a few more photos, but still there is not a lot of information aside from a brief overview.  What angers me even more about this book is that the portrait of William Henry Harrison is actually Andrew Jackson!  Big time error.  I know WHH was only president for one month because he died from an illness contracted during a long, rainy inauguration day, but give me a break.  I used to collect WHH campaign memorabilia so maybe I am more sensitive to this mistake than most but it makes you wonder how accurate the other stuff in this book is.  On the plus side, a lot of the photos used are uncommon ones.  This edition goes through George Bush I.	2005-01-18
US	51752008	R1NIWSZPNQFJ49	1559707283	697310768	Until the Final Hour: Hitler's Last Secretary	Books	5	81	83	N	N	The "banality of evil" personified	For any reader interested in Adolf Hitler as a person, not just as the ranting and raving dictator, Traudl Junge's account is the best resource available.  Junge (nee Humps) was one of Hitler's private secretaries from the tenth anniversary of Hitler's coming to power to the dramatic fall of the Nazi regime just two and one half years later. During much of this time, Junge's duties were primarily social. Junge accompanied Hitler for meals and relaxation almost daily.  She observed him in a way very few people did and was one of a minute number of Hitler's companions who survived the war to tell her story.  She wrote her memoirs in 1947 and they were later published in Voices From the Bunker.  I have read that book about four times and this edition once.  Her account is as fascinating now as it was the first time I read it.  Voices From the Bunker is one of my all-time favorite books.<br /><br />If you already have Voices From the Bunker and are wondering if this book is worth owning, I would say it is only if you are interested in Junge beyond her experiences with Hitler.  This book includes more background information on her pre-Hitler life (I had not read before that her father had taken part in the 1923 Beer Hall Putsch) and a 30-page chapter written by Melissa Mueller in 2001 that follows Junge's post-war life chronologically.  It would not be until the revisionist 1960s when people took an interest in her story.  Otherwise, the bulk of the work is the same 1947 account in Voices.  I've compared sections between the two books and, although they are not the same verbatim with a few minor details added or omitted, the account is basically the same.  I like the way Voices is divided up better, with more chapters separating the story (i.e. The July Bomb Plot).  It is more useful for looking up information than Until the Final Hour which is mostly one long chapter.  Voices also includes accounts of Hitler's aides-de-camp Otto Guensche and pilot Hans Baur which this book does not offer.  Until the Final Hour does have very interesting end notes with side tidbits and brief biographical information on many of the people Junge mentions.<br /><br />Junge died February 10, 2002, soon after the first German publication of her memoirs.  Her memories were controversial in her homeland because her experiences with Hitler were pleasant.  She knew him as a polite host and gentle father figure who showed compassion and human emotions (i.e. when he offered condolences to her after her husband died at the front).  Only in brief snippets does she hint at the harsher side of the dictator.  Hitler tries to hide his emotional explosions in meetings with his military officers.  Frau von Schirach (wife of the head of the Hitler Youth) was no longer invited to be Hitler's guest after she voiced concern to him about trains full of deported Jews headed for Amsterdam (p. 88).  Junge would finally become angry with Hitler when he gave up on the war and was accusatory to the end (Junge typed up his last demands and will).  She, of course, kept such feelings of disappointment to herself.  Her viewpoint is, admittedly, from an isolated world with one set of beliefs and a \\"puppet master\\" who controlled the day-to-day lives and thoughts of those around him. She describes Hitler's demeanor and routine at the Wolf's Lair (Hitler's headquarters in East Prussia), at the Berghof (his mountain retreat), and finally in the bunker as Berlin was being surrounded. She offers a unique perspective on many aspects of the dictator's life: his dietary habits, the attention he gave to his dog Blondi, his outlook on the war, his after-dinner small talk with such intimates as Eva Braun and important visitors like Albert Speer, Josef Goebbels, etc.  Her account of the final days in the bunker with the Russian army drawing near is very moving.  You almost feel like you were there.ook does not offer.  Until the Final Hour does have very interesting end notes with side tidbits and brief biographical information on many of the people Junge mentions.<br /><br />Junge died February 10, 2002, soon after the first German publication of her memoirs.  Her memories were controversial in her homeland because her experiences with Hitler were pleasant.  She knew him as a polite host and gentle father figure who showed compassion and human emotions (i.e. when he offered condolences to her after her husband died at the front).  Only in brief snippets does she hint at the harsher side of the dictator.  Hitler tries to hide his emotional explosions in meetings with his military officers.  Frau von Schirach (wife of the head of the Hitler Youth) was no longer invited to be Hitler's guest after she voiced concern to him about trains full of deported Jews headed for Amsterdam (p. 88).  Junge would finally become angry with Hitler when he gave up on the war and was accusatory to the end (Junge typed up his last demands and will).  She, of course, kept such feelings of disappointment to herself.  Her viewpoint is, admittedly, from an isolated world with one set of beliefs and a \\"puppet master\\" who controlled the day-to-day lives and thoughts of those around him. She describes Hitler's demeanor and routine at the Wolf's Lair (Hitler's headquarters in East Prussia), at the Berghof (his mountain retreat), and finally in the bunker as Berlin was being surrounded. She offers a unique perspective on many aspects of the dictator's life: his dietary habits, the attention he gave to his dog Blondi, his outlook on the war, his after-dinner small talk with such intimates as Eva Braun and important visitors like Albert Speer, Josef Goebbels, etc.  Her account of the final days in the bunker with the Russian army drawing near is very moving.  You almost feel like you were there.	2005-01-14
US	51752008	R2R2B9WSNLZ1EC	0395339677	193167750	Report on the Shroud of Turin	Books	5	6	7	N	N	"The physics of miracles"	Report on the Shroud of Turin is the best book I have read so far on the famous cloth that allegedly contains an imprint of the crucified Christ.  John Heller was a renown physicist who, along with other expert scientists, tested many samples of the original shroud gathered by a U.S. team of scientists who were invited to study the shroud in Turin in 1978.  Heller was a self-professed skeptic of relics who had never even seen a picture of the shroud until 1978 and who was surprised to see an article about the subject in Science magazine.  Intrigued by the challenge the Shroud offered, Heller read one of Ian Wilson's books on the subject and was alarmed by Wilson's \\"awful science\\" and the poor techniques used to check the shroud for blood.  When given the opportunity, he jumped at the chance to do more appropriate tests on the shroud samples. <br /> <br />For a scientist, Heller writes in a surprisingly engaging style.  He reveals the excitement he and his colleagues experienced when encountering a great new finding to the reader.  It sometimes reads like a scientific detective story which, in a sense, it is.  He also adds a lot of humor to the work.  There are a lot of scientific terms and details in this book, but it is not bogged down by them and is still very enjoyable reading for non-scientific minds like myself.  Heller's history of the shroud is very sparse but that is understandable in that he looks at hypotheses that can be tested and is frustrated by historical evidence that cannot be subjected to experiments.  He did find historical evidence (however fuzzy) that the shroud was brought from east to west during the 4th crusade which I had not read before (pp. 68-72). <br /> <br />What strikes me is how well Heller responds to Joe Nickell's anti-authenticity work Inquest on the Shroud of Turin.  Heller does not claim the shroud is really the imprint of the body of Christ as he several times points out the obvious; that there is \\"no test for Jesus Christ.\\"  Heller does, however, shed light on the work of Dr. Walter McCrone whose findings make up a large portion of Nickell's book.  McCrone claimed that he did not find any blood on the shroud samples and, instead, found evidence that the shroud was an artist's forgery in tons of iron oxide particles and vermilion (used in pigment).  Nickell maintains that McCrone was the most renown expert to study the shroud (Heller does not dispute McCrone's expertise in his field) and that he was \\"drummed out\\" of the Shroud of Turin Research Project (STURP) because his findings disagreed with those of other scientists who wanted the shroud to be authentic.  Heller's book takes a different look on Dr. McCrone.  He reveals that McCrone did not conduct actual tests on the shroud samples but came to his conclusions solely on what he saw through a microscope.  McCrone seemed very quick in coming to his findings and, when it was pointed out to him that his discoveries differed from those of the other scientists in the project he responded cavalierly with \\"They must be wrong\\" (pp. 140-1).  Rather than being \\"drummed out\\" of STURP, he failed to attend a debate in Hamilton, Ontario and a meeting in New London, Connecticut; events to which he was certainly invited by scientists enthusiastic to compare findings with him. <br /> <br />In contrast, Heller, along with chemist Alan Adler and other scientists, worked on the shroud samples for three years and \\"abso-bloody-lutely\\" [Heller's word] found blood on the shroud.  Their findings did not agree with McCrone's in almost every area.  The iron found was pure and did not contain the contaminants found in pigment (p. 196).  A tiny amount of vermilion was found but it was not sufficient enough to prove the shroud was painted.  Heller also makes an interesting point about the vermilion.  Several paintings were made of the shroud and, since it was customary to touch everyday objects to the shroud, these paintings could have easily been placed on the shroud resulting in the small amounts found (p. 212).  Heller, who remained skeptical of the shroud's authenticity, entertained other ways the shroud could have been made by an artist, but discovered nothing concrete.  In his conclusion, the shroud remains a mystery.  Unfortunately, Heller only covered the ways in which a body could have left the imprint in the last chapter. More on this matter would have enhanced the book as would an index.  Otherwise, Report is an extremely well-written and convincing rebuttal to Nickell's one-sided account.	2004-12-18
US	51752008	R2HQF1E509P39J	1573922722	714789153	Inquest on the Shroud of Turin: Latest Scientific Findings	Books	4	12	15	N	N	"As the (red ochre) dust settles over Sindondom"	Inquest on the Shroud of Turin by Joe Nickell is a clear, concise, 155-page work explaining the evidence that refutes the authenticity of the 3 1/2' x 14' cloth that allegedly covered the body of Christ after crucifixion and bears his image.  Nickell's work is one-sided.  He believes the shroud was created by an artist near the time it was first publicly introduced around 1353.  He picks apart (sometimes in a mocking manner) the evidence shroud believers use to prove authenticity.  As Nickell states at the beginning of the book, his collaboration with a panel of scientific and technical experts accomplishes equal time for the skeptics.  According to Nickell, many reports on the shroud are done by pro-authenticity investigators who lack objectivity (p. 8).  Mentions made in this book about Roman anatomist Dr. Luigi Gedda who, detecting a slump in the right shoulder of the image, deduced that the image was of a right-handed carpenter (p. 109) and the story of how renown microanalyst Walter McCrone was \\"drummed out\\" of the Shroud of Turin Research Project (STURP) for publicizing his findings of iron earth pigment on the blood stains and body image (p. 125) seem to back up his claims of bias accounts of the shroud's authenticity.  I do not recommend reading only this one book on the shroud because it is too one-sided (any of the books by Ian Wilson would make a good companion) but I also do not think that, because Nickell has an agenda, this book should be discounted.  Whether you believe, are skeptical, or are just curious, Nickell makes excellent cases for his side of the issue.    Nickell includes chapters that cover a variety of topics: the history of the shroud, ways the shroud does not follow traditional Jewish burials at the time of Christ, the shroud versus Biblical accounts of Jesus' death and resurrection, ways that the image could be left on the cloth, and scientific consideration of the type of linen, blood stains, and the image itself.  The chapters on blood and the yellow fibers on the image are a little dry and scientific (14 pages worth), but the rest of the work makes for fascinating reading.  Nickell drives home his points with clarity and precision.  He describes the shroud's past as one cloaked in controversy, politics, and profits which left more of an impression on me than the scientific evidence.  The shroud was only first introduced to the public in 1353 and was denounced as a forgery almost immediately.  Documents even show that the artist confessed.    The book ends with a summary of the areas considered in the work and the evidence the shroud is a forgery as well as information of members leaving (or being \\"drummed out\\") of STURP.  The additional chapter includes an update to 1987 (four years after this book was first released) about books published during this time and about the formation of the Association of Scientists and Scholars International for the Shroud of Turin (ASSIST).  Obviously much has happened since then.  I saw a television documentary showing a man who claims the image is an x-ray of Jesus.  An expert on ancient cloth also claimed that the type of weave used in the shroud is inconsistent with Medieval times but is found much earlier (something Nickell refutes).    The occasional tone of the book may turn off staunch believers.  Nickell uses past mistakes of scientists to help discredit what they say about the shroud (p. 72).  He refers to the idea that the image could be formed through resurrection as \\"nonsense\\" (p. 86).  His arguments that, if the image was created supernaturally, why is it \\"not of better quality than it is\\" (p. 92) is a bit weak.  Despite the author's arrogance, an objective reader will find that he makes many important points.  Before the skeptics claim this book to be a slam dunk for their side, however, they should definitely check out John Heller's Report on the Shroud of Turin.  Heller has a completely different take on the work of Walter McCrone.  All these accounts show what an intriguing mystery the Shroud of Turin was, is, and probably will always be.	2004-12-07
US	51752008	R233KZHYLOXUBI	087975396X	198820337	Inquest on the Shroud of Turin	Books	4	12	14	N	N	"As the (red ochre) dust settles over Sindondom"	Inquest on the Shroud of Turin by Joe Nickell is a clear, concise, 155-page work explaining the evidence that refutes the authenticity of the 3 1/2' x 14' cloth that allegedly covered the body of Christ after crucifixion and bears his image.  Nickell's work is one-sided.  He believes the shroud was created by an artist near the time it was first publicly introduced around 1353.  He picks apart (sometimes in a mocking manner) the evidence shroud believers use to prove authenticity.  As Nickell states at the beginning of the book, his collaboration with a panel of scientific and technical experts accomplishes equal time for the skeptics.  According to Nickell, many reports on the shroud are done by pro-authenticity investigators who lack objectivity (p. 8).  Mentions made in this book about Roman anatomist Dr. Luigi Gedda who, detecting a slump in the right shoulder of the image, deduced that the image was of a right-handed carpenter (p. 109) and the story of how renown microanalyst Walter McCrone was \\"drummed out\\" of the Shroud of Turin Research Project (STURP) for publicizing his findings of iron earth pigment on the blood stains and body image (p. 125) seem to back up his claims of bias accounts of the shroud's authenticity.  I do not recommend reading only this one book on the shroud because it is too one-sided (any of the books by Ian Wilson would make a good companion as would Dr. John Heller's Report on the Shroud of Turin) but I also do not think that, because Nickell has an agenda, this book should be discounted.  Whether you believe, are skeptical, or are just curious, Nickell makes excellent cases for his side of the issue.    Nickell includes chapters that cover a variety of topics: the history of the shroud, ways the shroud does not follow traditional Jewish burials at the time of Christ, the shroud versus Biblical accounts of Jesus' death and resurrection, ways that the image could be left on the cloth, and scientific consideration of the type of linen,blood stains, and the image itself.  The chapters on blood and the yellow fibers on the image are a little dry and scientific (14 pages worth), but the rest of the work makes for fascinating reading.  Nickell drives home his points with clarity and precision.  He describes the shroud's past as one cloaked in controversy, politics, and profits which left more of an impression on me than the scientific evidence.  The shroud was only first introduced to the public in 1353 and was denounced as a forgery almost immediately.  Documents even show that the artist confessed.    The book ends with a summary of the areas considered in the work and the evidence the shroud is a forgery as well as information of members leaving (or being \\"drummed out\\") of STURP.  The additional chapter includes an update to 1987 (four years after this book was first released) about books published during this time and about the formation of the Association of Scientists and Scholars International for the Shroud of Turin (ASSIST).  Obviously much has happened since then.  I saw a television documentary showing a man who claims the image is an x-ray of Jesus.  An expert on ancient cloth also claimed that the type of weave used in the shroud is inconsistent with Medieval times but is found much earlier (something Nickell refutes).    The occasional tone of the book may turn off staunch believers.  Nickell uses past mistakes of scientists to help discredit what they say about the shroud (p. 72).  He refers to the idea that the image could be formed through resurrection as \\"nonsense\\" (p. 86).  His arguments that, if the image was created supernaturally, why is it \\"not of better quality than it is\\" (p. 92) is a bit weak.  Despite the author's arrogance, an objective reader will find that he makes many important points.  Before the skeptics claim this book to be a slam dunk for their side, however, they should definitely check out John Heller's Report on the Shroud of Turin.  Heller has a completely different take on the work of Walter McCrone.  All these accounts show what an intriguing mystery the Shroud of Turin was, is, and probably will always be.	2004-12-07
US	51752008	R1N16N1OPOEFKC	0142002917	125161689	Mutiny on the Globe: The Fatal Voyage of Samuel Comstock	Books	4	4	5	N	N	"I am the bloody man, I have the bloody hand"--S. Comstock	Mutiny on the Globe by Thomas Farel Heffernan is a story written for the causual history reader about a disgruntled and insane whaleman Samuel Comstock who, in 1822, sought to live out his horrible fantasy.  Comstock's dream was to take over a ship by killing the captain and his mates, sailing to an island, enslaving the natives who-as his personal military force-would kill the remaining crew and worship Comstock as their maniacal king.  On the whaling ship Globe, Comstock achieved the first two ends; however, his ultimate plans were vanquished.  Heffernan's work is based almost entirely on primary sources.  Comstock's early life is described through the work of brother William Comstock (referring to the mutineer as both the \\"terrible whaleman\\" and \\"our hero\\").  The mutiny is seen, in large part, through the eyes of Samuel's other brother George, a fellow member of the Globe crew.  The description of the island invaded by the Globe (on the Mili Atoll) is found in The Narratives of surviving crew members William Lay and Cyrus Hussey.  The rescue of the crew members is based primarily on the memoirs of Captain Hiram Paulding. <br /> <br />I found the story to be a little disappointing.  The main character is no longer a factor before the halfway point of the book.  Samuel Comstock is such a fascinating character: psychopathic on one level but then revealing strong religious sensibilities when he conducted burial services for those he killed and spared the life of Gilbert Smith, who he suspected of being a threat to his ends, allegedly because he respected Smith's moral standing.  Then, alas, Comstock is gone and the story shifts to Lay and Hussey trying to survive on the islands. <br /> <br />The author is limited to what sources are available.  A lot of questions are not answered; most likely through no fault of the author.  Why did the natives, who regarded the white intruders as \\"visitors from outerspace\\" spare the lives of Lay and Hussey?  What was the reaction ofSamuel's parents to news of the mutiny and their son's role in it? Did not brothers George and William note their reaction in their writings?   <br /> <br />For the most part, the book is fast-moving (the body of the text is only 215 pages) and written in an engaging and sometimes exciting style.  The final 40 pages or so after Paulding and the rescue ship Dolphin accomplished its mission is a bit tedious as the new arrivals struggled to tolerate the natives.  The Afterward seemed a bit unfocused with a preoccupation with Captain Percival's attempts to have the prostitution ban lifted on the ship as they stayed in the missionary Hiram Bingham-dominated Hawaiian islands.  Heffernan also breezes through a question on whether Hussey or Lay fathered children while on the islands (the author thinks not).  Heffernan continues with the fates of those involved but more post-island information, if available, would be welcomed.  What was the public reaction to the mutiny?  Were there any letters to the editor in the newspapers on the subject?  The ending seemed flowery and hard to follow: \\"On one ship the curtain comes down on deeds of blood and a mind sailing by itself-things of wonder\\" (p. 215).  There are many appendices including George Comstock's account of the mutiny that is published in full for the first time.  A list of Globe crew members, including their heights, is very interesting.  These appendices alone make the book worthwhile to anyone interested in the subject.  The book also includes a section of photos (mainly sketches and title pages of primary sources).  Photos of the islands as they exist today (is Surgeon Benjamin Wells' grave plaque still there?) would be welcomed.  Mutiny on the Globe, while not perfect, is a compelling book that will probably encourage many readers to seek other books on Samuel Comstock.	2004-12-01
US	51752008	R2Y6OMW4YAYVKO	0767907035	514224152	A Tale of Two Valleys: Wine, Wealth and the Battle for the Good Life in Napa and Sonoma	Books	2	9	15	N	N	Oh, to be the "Kato Kaelin of the wine country"	I picked up this book because the cover summary sounded so intriguing: A look at neighboring valleys whose residents, during the weekend, are the perfect hosts \\"smiling upon their guests,\\" but, during the week, feud like the Hatfields and McCoys.\\"  Deutschman had a chance to see this change as house guest to some of the richest residents in Napa.  The book, however, was a disappointment to me.  Any transformation in behavior between the weekend and the rest of the week is not shown.  Deutschman does, however, illustrate the differing attitudes and life styles between Napa and Sonoma.  Napa is described as an elitist world of elegance and refinement as opposed to Sonoma, which is dominated by artistic intellectuals with a bohemian way of life.   <br /> <br />Much of this book is dominated by Deutschman's arrogant snobbery.  He seems to relish in describing luxuries he enjoys from the \\"braised leg and thigh and pan-roasted loin of Sonoma rabbit with artichoke pan sauce\\" and \\"a lavender-flavored crme brulee\\" he savored at a pricey Sonoma valley restaurant to lounging in a hot tub next to his friend's million dollar waterfall pool.  He brings a \\"don't you wish you were me, aren't my friends better than yours?\\" feel to the book.  Then he gives a bogus sense of guilt when he wonders what his Sonoma friends would think if they knew he was living the life of luxury in Napa.  He also likes to use lots of SAT words like \\"gewurztraminer,\\" \\"oenophile,\\" \\"nonagenarian\\" (and every other type of \\"genarian\\")  which only adds to the arrogant tone. <br /> <br />Much of the book is on Sonoma politics, especially movements to keep Napa sprawl from spreading to Sonoma not to mention efforts to allow chickens to roam through the plaza.  His coverage of Napa is almost exclusively from the point of view of the richest elite.  He drinks wine with the Screaming Eagle vintner who just saw one of her bottles sell for $500,000 at a wine auction (alas, Deutschman does not even let the reader know how the wine tastes) and watches the multi-million dollar house renovation of a friend (with the waterfall pool) only to learn his friend sold the house about a year later because he was afraid 9-11 would negatively effect real estate prices.  His best description (without arrogant posturing) is on the \\"invisible velvet rope\\" in Napa: \\"Napa had the best wines but you couldn't buy them; it had the nation's best restaurant but you couldn't get a reservation there; and many of its loveliest chateaux and vineyards weren't open to the six million tourists who drove through every year to tastes wines and enjoy picnics\\" (92). <br /> <br />He demonstrates the differing attitudes between the two valleys (at least of those who are members of the elite groups in the valleys) by visiting people in their own environment.  At worse, there are a few jokes aimed at the neighboring valley, but no direct, face-to-face feud I expected from reading the cover summary.  The book never seems to come to a conclusion and ends abruptly with just some updates on Sonoma's political situation.  Even his research of the glassy-winged sharp shooter that was supposed to destroy the California vineyards is left up in the air.  He introduces the destructive pests at the beginning of the book and then returns to them at the end by asking an expert why the sharp shooters have not hurt the wine industry in California as was predicted.  He gets no decisive answer so even this one little detail of the story is left incomplete.  Not much is learned from this book except how great of an assignment Alan Deutschman had in the wine country.	2004-11-22
US	51752008	R8FQALIKJE1RR	0393019624	379898487	The Cruelest Miles: The Heroic Story of Dogs and Men in a Race Against an Epidemic	Books	4	10	10	N	N	It was a Dog's Day in 1925	The Cruelest Miles, written by first cousins Gay and Laney Salisbury, is a thorough and well written account of the dog sled race to get life-saving serum to isolated Nome, Alaska during a diphtheria epidemic.  This 1925 event was a major news story in its day and would even be referred to in the 1949 Looney Tunes cartoon \\"Daffy Duck Hunt\\" (Daffy leaps from Porky Pig's freezer claiming to have just returned from a daring adventure, \\"But we had to get that serum to them somehow!  Mush! Mush!\\").  The authors offer excellent background information on every important element of the story.  The history of Nome-especially the gold rush at the turn of the century-, the breeding of the Siberian Husky and the history of dog sledding-including the All Alaska Sweepstakes, Alaska politics, the daily lives of early Athabaskans and Eskimos, backgrounds on all the leading participants in the relief crusade, and the campaign to establish an arctic airline industry are all described in excellent detail.  The most moving part to me was the description of what the diphtheria patients (most of whom were children) suffered (p. 36).  Such information helps the reader better understand the sense of desperation Dr. Welch and the residents of Nome felt at the time.  They also put the epidemic in good context by describing the Flu epidemic of 1918, still fresh in the minds of many in 1925, which took the lives of over 1,000 people around Nome. <br /> <br />As important and interesting the background information is, I found myself getting anxious for the authors to return to the serum dog sled run.  The constant detours the authors take to cover other subjects takes away from the momentum of a very riveting story.  Still, I understand that if this background information was not provided, readers would complain that the book lacked depth.  Once on the serum run topic, the authors demonstrate a vast knowledge of the dangers confronted by the dog sled teams and drivers, particularly in the -40 degree conditions they faced during the run.  The authors show a deep respect for those involved, especially expert musher Leonhard Seppala.  The Salisburys also continue the story with what happened to the main participants (dogs included) after the event.  The serum run put Nome in the news and spurred the passing of the Airmail Act of 1925 whereby airplane companies could compete against dog teams for mail contracts.  The airplane would finally take over from the dog as the main source of mail transport in Alaska (the last dog mail run was in the early 1960s) (pp. 236-7).  In 1925, however, it was still the dog's day and the traditional way of life in Alaska out-performed the new, floundering technology to save lives.  I highly recommend The Cruelest Miles.  It was written with much research and care.  It includes a section of photographs as well as additional photos throughout the body of the book, source notes, bibliography, brief bios on those involved in the serum run, and a map of Alaska.	2004-11-17
US	51752008	R2E0S1BC2WW8ZZ	0345289935	236032576	A Time to Die	Books	4	3	7	N	N	"hell hath no fury like a bureaucracy defending itself"	A Time to Die by Tom Wicker is one of the most important accounts and, perhaps, the most comprehensive account available on the inmate uprising and takeover of the Attica Correctional Facility in upstate New York in 1971.  Wicker was asked by the protesting inmates in control of the prison's D-yard to be one of the outside observers who would visit the prisoners, check on the condition and treatment of the hostages held in D-yard as well as inmates in other parts of the facility not controlled by the prisoners, and help negotiate terms of prison reform between the prisoners and prison authorities.  Wicker was a New York Times columnist who often wrote on the subject of prisoner's rights and wrote several sympathetic articles on George Jackson, a San Quentin inmate who many non-white prisoners regarded as a freedom fighter, after he was killed by prison guards for allegedly hiding a weapon in his Afro earlier that year.  The Attica inmates saw Wicker as a respected journalist on their side and invited him among others to visit the prison. <br /> <br />Wicker is a self-professed \\"limousine liberal\\" and definitely wrote this book with a pro-prisoner perspective. The ideals of the Civil Rights Movement were still very fresh and many of the inmate's 15 \\"practical proposals\\" (more African American and Puerto Rican prison guards to reflect the racial make-up among the prison population, religious freedom, improved meals with less pork which many inmates did not wish to eat for religious reasons, better medical care, etc) seemed very reasonable. Wicker, however, is no radical.  He was concerned when potential firebrands like lawyer William Kunstler (who defended the Chicago 7), Muslim activist Jaybarr Kenyatta, and Black Panther Bobby Seale joined the observers, although he later criticized Seale for showing a lack of interest and abandoning the cause. As a journalist, Wicker also showed a realistic understanding of what the authorities and society would accept.  Minimum wages for all state institutions he knew was probably not a realistic goal.  The inmates five \\"demands\\" also, according to Wicker, posed a problem to a peaceful settlement; especially the first 2.  The inmates were uncompromising in their demands for complete amnesty from \\"physical, mental and legal reprisals\\" and for transportation \\"to a non-imperialist country.\\"  Wicker knew these demands could never be met, especially after a prison guard died from head trauma suffered during the initial takeover.  Wicker described his experience in the prison and the different people he met at D-yard, both leaders and non-leaders of the rebellion, as well as prisoners in C-block who were not able to take part in the uprising and a few of whom did not support it.  He was most concerned, however, about the ample supply of weapons for the state troopers surrounding the prison.  With all the weapons in hand, Wicker concluded that the ultimate question was \\"Why not use them?\\":  this observation proved to be prophetic. <br /> <br />At some points in the book, the story switches to a biography. Wicker is white and grew up in North Carolina.  He often interrupts his observations of Attica to reflect on his background in race relations.  Some of these flash backs are appropriate for understanding the context of race relations at Attica (i.e. black inmate v. white prison guard); however, sometimes Wicker relates too much on his own insecurities as a writer and his unfulfilled ambitions to succeed in great literature.  Such personal information is distracting and not relevant to the subject matter except insofar as he may have taken his role as observer very seriously because he wanted to participate in something very important in human relations.  Still, some of this self criticism seems more therapeutic to the author than useful to the reader's understanding of Attica and probably should have been edited out of the book.  Wicker also refers to himself in the third person, which is rather odd.   <br /> <br />Wicker follows the story of Attica to the violent end as well as the false reports of inmate abuse and mutilation of hostages in the aftermath.  The violence only makes up the final chapter is not described in as much detail as Wicker did not observe the event.  There is also some information on what happened to the prison and some of the central players in the negotiations after the stand-off.  New York governor Nelson Rockefeller, who Wicker is critical of for choosing not to visit the prison during the negotiations, will, of course, become Vice President under Gerald Ford (the only U.S. President and VP not voted in by the American people).  The book includes appendixes of the 5 prisoner demands, 15 practical proposals, list of observers, and the 28 reform points by State Correction Commissioner Russell Oswald (not supported by the observers or inmates).  Two sets of b&w write photos are included. Because the book was released only a few years after the event, there is no long term perspective, although the reader is left with the impression that not too much has changed at Attica.	2004-10-06
US	51752008	R274IGY0K4G6RV	1402718829	528398795	Lewis & Clark: An American Journey	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Adventure of a Lifetime	Daniel Thorp's well-illustrated look at the Lewis and Clark Expedition is an excellent book for students just becoming interested in the legendary westward journey in Jeffersonian America.  The writing style, although very good, seems to be more geared towards a high school audience, but it can still certainly hold the attention of more advanced readers.  Thorp includes important background information on Thomas Jefferson's motivations for pushing the congressional-supported project and the influence of explorer/trader Alexander MacKenzie.  The preparations for the voyage are described as well as the many places and tribes the Corps of Discovery encountered on their 28 month, 7,000 mile journey.  Interesting points are made including the difference in relations between the Corps and the Mandan Indians of what is now North Dakota and the Corps and the Clatsop on the coast of the northern tip of Oregon.  The Clatsop were not as interested in the voyagers as were the Mandan because the coastal people had already been trading with British and American sea traders for years (p. 106).  The aftermath and legacy of the expedition is also examined  (even in the early 1800s, it was hard to keep the American people's interest). <br /> <br />At 155 pages, a lot of which are made up of photographs, this book will probably not be comprehensive enough for more serious readers of the subject.  Still, it represents a very thorough overview and an excellent choice for someone looking for a first book on Lewis and Clark.  The book does have something to offer to readers who are already well-read on the event.  It is filled with interesting photographs, most of which are in color.  It includes photos of items taken on the journey, pages from journals kept by the explorers (so clear that you can read them), recent photos of the places they visited, maps, and paintings, and lithographs (many by George Catlin).  Overall, it is a very well-written and handsome volume for the Lewis and Clark buff.	2004-10-06
US	51752008	R19HQITRI4HLJY	080214151X	758410541	Triangle: The Fire That Changed America	Books	4	1	2	N	N	"Their monument and legacy are stitched into our world"	I first heard of the Triangle Waist (as in \\"shirtwaist\\" or a woman's blouse) factory fire of 1911 during a course in labor economics. The event will probably be covered in a page or two in a labor economics textbooks or, possibly, a paragraph in an American history textbook. I was surprised to learn from this book that the fire represented the greatest loss of life in a New York workplace for 90 years, being surpassed by 9/11. Many who have not studied the progressive era in American history or the history of labor movements may never have heard of this tragedy. David von Drehle in \\"Triangle\\" does an excellent job describing the labor climate up to the event, the disaster itself, and the important aftermath that explains why the Triangle fire needs to be remembered.  <br /> <br />Drehle presents the most thorough account of the garment factory fire since Leon Stein's extensive interviews of survivors in \\"The Triangle Fire,\\" published in 1962. Drehle uncovered the long lost and brittle transcript of People v. Harris & Blanck (Isaac Harris and Max Blanck were the owners of Triangle).  Drehle also compiled the first complete list of the 140 identified fire victims by scouring the many contemporary newspaper accounts. His description of the fire is graphic and well detailed; for example, take this chilling sentence: \\"If there was pain, it was brief, for the fire burned quickly past her never endings\\" (p. 170). Illustrations of each floor of the factory is included. Drehle also includes essential background information such as the history of the garment industry (pp. 39-42), the inner workings of the factory, the state of labor relations at the time including the 1909 strike that attracted such high profile supporters as Alva Vanderbilt Belmont and J. P. Morgan's daughter, and even the cultures of the different workers in the factory (i.e. an interesting comparison of Italian and Eastern European Jewish workers, pg. 60). Drehle does not lay as much blame on the owners ofthe factory as I expected; in fact, he reveals interesting information on such things as the infamous locked doors that has me thinking differently about the tragedy. Background information is also provided on the important characters surrounding the event from Russian woman activist Clara Lemlich, who was beaten during a pre-fire labor strike, to the \\"Tammany Hall Twins\\" Robert F. Wagner and Alfred E. Smith who worked to get reform measures passed after the fire. As important as this background information is, it does divert away from the story (especially during fairly long descriptions of certain people) and I found myself on several occasions getting restless and wanting the author to return to the fire. <br /> <br />Drehle argues that an accelerated move to urban liberalism was one of the legacies of the fire. Tammany Hall city boss, Charles Murphy, once a steadfast supporter of the status quo, realized that reform could mean votes. The Factory Investigating Commission (formed as a result of the fire) helped transform the Democratic party by opening political doors to labor leaders (pg. 213). In fact, socialism was doomed as, in the next two decades, the Democrats co-opted many of their ideas leading to New Deal bills, many of which Wagner wrote. Reform worker and activist for the Triangle victims Frances Perkins, who earlier found Wagner and Smith more sensitive to causes like the 54-hour day than state senator Franklin D. Roosevelt, would be the first woman secretary of labor in the FDR administration. This road to progressivism would have been taken without the fire, but the fire did play an important role in giving certain people power and influence to pass many reform bills like the 54-hour day and better factory safety measures that would help future factory workers and change the face of New York's powerful Tammany Hall. Drehle's book includes coverage of the Blanck and Harris trial, a middle section of photos, and an appendix with the names of all 140identified Triangle fire deaths. <br />	2004-09-17
US	51752008	R30FJ6R6DFQ9YI	0670032956	955071866	The First World War	Books	4	27	29	N	N	The First World War in Color!	Hew Strachan's The First World War is a very rapid 340-page overview of the war from its origins through its legacy.  Its ten chapters cover such things as the global aspect of the war (Japan and Africa), the Ottoman Empire, the western front, the naval war, revolution in Russia and mutinies in France and Italy, Germany's last gamble, and the peace settlement.  Unlike most books on the subject, Strachan covers the war in Africa, the Ottoman Empire, and the war at sea (economically as well as militarily) as, if not more, extensively as he covers the western front.  The book also briefly covers the home front.  The section on wartime diets was very interesting (pg. 218) as was the author's point that the war did not bring women into the workforce as much as it caused women to change jobs within the workforce (pg. 171).  The military campaigns are described briskly which makes it difficult to follow for a reader like myself who is not up on the geography of the time and military strategy.  He includes maps at the front of the book, but they are individual maps for separate battle fronts.  A clear overview map would really help.  I found Strachan's description on the ways in which tactical experience changed the focus of production and use of tanks and aircraft very interesting and well-written (pg. 313).  <br /> <br />I do not recommend this book to someone who is just beginning to read about the First World War, as Strachan moves through events very quickly and drops a lot of names which may not be familiar to those just learning about the war.  For example, he mentions such concepts as \\"live and let live\\" and the three-tiered voting system in Germany without giving the reader any background information (although he expertly explains Germany's \\"stab in the back\\" theory).  I think a reader will become lost very quickly if this were the first WWI book encountered.  The author's take on the war's legacy also seems very rushed (getting to the \\"meat\\" of it in the last paragraph of the book).  His point that the Treaty of Versailles did not make the Second World War inevitable is not explained.  He mentions this idea in the second to last paragraph and does not give any evidence to support it.  This book seems to me to be more of an outline than a thorough look at the war (he is writing a three volume work on the war, the first of which was published in 2001).  He does not cover much in depth.  For beginners, I'd recommend PBS's excellent book and video documentary The Great War and the Shaping of the 20th Century. <br /> <br />What makes this book valuable to me are the photographs.  It is not a pictorial, but it has many photos throughout the book, most of which I have not seen before.  Interesting photos include one of a Scotsman wearing a kilt while in a trench (pg. 194) and a giant group photo of British factory workers (pg. 235).  The real treat is the section of color photographs of the war (most of which were taken by the French army).  As Strachan puts it, these photos \\"reveal a different war, where the sky can be blue, the grass green and the uniforms less sombre.\\" <br />	2004-09-16
US	51752008	R20DS5N9A7VBRT	0760742189	344025070	The Encyclopedia of Heavy Metal	Books	5	35	39	N	N	From Abdullah to Zebra	I saw Daniel Bukszpan's Encyclopedia of Heavy Metal in a book store and was intrigued by the cover.  I skimmed through it and saw the tons of glossy color photos of metal bands and memorabilia (many I had not seen before).  When I saw a photo of Judas Priest roller skating in Central Park, I knew I had to have this book.  It is a very entertaining guide to tons of bands with side info on such things as metal magazines, metal genres, and top ten lists of metal albums, songs, controversial album covers, etc.  The author includes symbols by each artist entry to indicate such things as excessive drug use, death in the band, musical content (satanic, political, fantasy, violent, sexual, etc.).  The sexual symbol is two sets of feet facing each other (although, for some bands, they may need to be turned around).  Symbols for metal genre next to each metal act would have been helpful.  The entries are informative and often funny (\\"...when [Rob] Halford came out of the proverbial closet.  His revelation surprised possibly as many as six people in the entire world...\\").  Bukszpan even includes some humorous captions under the photos.  A photo of Grandfunk Railroad laying in caskets sports the caption: \\"Where most rock critics wanted to see GFR end up.\\") The book has a forward by Ronnie James Dio and, when you read the entry on Dio, you will detect some butt kissing on the part of the author, but that's OK because Dio rocks.   <br /> <br />There will always be controversy regarding which bands are included in a heavy metal encyclopedia (Bad Company? Kid Rock?) and which bands are left off (where's Keel? where's Annihilator? where's Meliah Rage? where's Death Angel?).  But here's who made it:  Abdullah, Accept, AC/DC, Acid King, Aerosmith, Alice in Chains, Anthrax, Anvil, Armored Saint, The Atomic Bitchwax, Atomic Rooster, Bad Company, Biohazard, Black Sabbath, Blue Cheer, Blue Oyster Cult, Body Count, Bon Jovi, Budgie, Candlemass, Cannibal Corpse, Carcass, Carnivore, Cathedral, Celtic Frost, Cheap Trick, Cinderella, Cirith Ungol, Alice Cooper, Corrosion of Conformity, Cycle Sluts From Hell, Danzig, Dark Angel, Darkthrone, Death, Deep Purple, Def Leppard, The Deftones, Deicide, Diamond Head, Dio, Dokken, D.R.I., Dust, Electric Wizard, Emperor, Entombed, Exciter, Exodus, Extreme, Eyehategod, Faith No More, Faster Pussycat, Fastway, Fates Warning, Fear Factory, Flotsam & Jetsam, Lita Ford, Fu Manchu, Goatsnake, Godflesh, Grand Funk Railroad, Granicus, Grave Digger, Grim Reaper, Guns n' Roses, GWAR, Hallow's Eve, Hammerfall, Hanoi Rocks, Helloween, Helmet, Jimi Hendrix, Holocaust, Iced Earth, Immortal, Insane Clown Posse, Iron Butterfly, Iron Maiden, Iron Man, Jag Panzer, Jane's Addiction, Joan Jett, Judas Priest, Katatonia, Kid Rock, King Diamond, King's X, KISS, Korn, Kreator, Krokus, Kyuss, L7, L.A. Guns, Lard, Las Cruces, Led Zeppelin, Limp Bizkit, Living Colour, Loudness, Yngwie Malmsteen, Manilla Road, Manowar, Marilyn Manson, Mayhem, The MC5, Megadeth, The Melvins, Memento Mori, The Mentors, Mercyful Fate, Metal Church, Metallica, Monster Magnet, Morbid Angel, Motley Crue, Motorhead, Mr. Bungle, My Dying Bride,  <br /> <br />Napalm Death, Natas, Nebula, Neurosis, Nine Inch Nails, Nuclear Assault, Ted Nugent, Obituary, The Obsessed, Opeth, Ozzy Osbourne, Overkill, Pantera, Paradise Lost, Penance, Pentagram, Place of Skulls, Poison, Possessed, Prong, Queen, Queens of the Stone Age, Queensrych, Quiet Riot, Rage Against the Machine, Rainbow, Rammstein, Ratt, Raven, Riot, Rose Tattoo, The Runaways, Running Wild, Rush, Sacred Reich, Saint Vitus, Samson, Joe Satriani, Savatage, Saxon, The Scorpions, Sepultura, Sir Lord Baltimore, Skid Row, Slade, Slayer, Sleep, Slipknot, Slow Horse, Sodom, Solitude Aeturnus, Soundgarden, Spinal Tap, Spirit Caravan, Stormtroopers of Death, Stryper, Suicidal Tendencies, The Sweet, The Tea Party, Terra Firma, Tesla, Testament, Therapy?, Thin Lizzy, Tool, Trouble, Twisted Sister, Tygers of Pan Tang, Type O Negative, U.F.O, Unorthodox, Uriah Heep, Steve Vai, Van Halen, Venom, Vixen, Voivod, Warhorse, Warlock, Warlord, Warrant, W.A.S.P., Whitesnake, White Zombie, Winter, Witchfinder General, Y & T, and Zebra.  Of course powerhouses like KISS and Judas Priest are going to get many more pages and photos than a lesser known group like Cirith Ungol (who receive no photos) but it is near impossible to find any info on some of these more obscure bands.  The photos are amazing and are worth the price of  the book alone.	2004-09-13
US	51752008	R133PCCCDYXPTJ	0767909054	655574149	Ship Ablaze: The Tragedy of the Steamboat General Slocum	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	"cautionary tale of greed, carelessness & unspeakable loss"	Ship Ablaze is a very well written and engaging book.  Edward T. O'Donnell presents the story of the Steamship General Slocum which caught fire in 1904 while carrying members of a Lutheran church in a German district in Manhattan on their annual outing. The fire resulted in over 1,000 deaths due mostly to egregious examples of safety negligence on the part of the captain and the Knickerbocker Steamboat company.  O'Donnell (a history professor at the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester Massachusetts) writes in a story-telling style.  Historians may be frustrated by this style as there are no footnotes.  An \\"About the Sources\\" section found at the end of the book includes a web address where footnotes can be found.  O'Donnell uses mostly primary sources such as newspaper accounts and government documents.  A map of the Gen. Solum's route in the front of the book is very useful.<br /><br />O'Donnell presents a very thorough account of the disaster.  He even includes information (garnered through research and interviews) on the nature of fires (p. 98).  He adds some psychological explanations on leadership and heroism during emergencies (pp. 127 and 157) and even describes the different stages of panic (p. 115).  O'Donnell demonstrates an excellent understanding of the time giving the readers such important information as the Victorian acceptance of risk and the fact that many people could not swim at the beginning of the century and CPR was many decades away.  Background information is provided on many of the key players in the tragedy although Mayor McClellan and journalist Martin Green did not have as big a role in the story as one might think when they were introduced at the beginning of the book.  Events leading up to the fire, the fire itself, the rescue efforts, and the aftermath are detailed very well.  O'Donnell also does an excellent job explaining, in the chapter of Gen. Slocum's legacy, why the tragedy was quickly forgotten and overshadowed by the 1911 Triangle factory fire which resulted in far fewer losses.  My only complaint is that O'Donnell did not examine the federal investigation of the Knickerbocker Steamboat Company and the U.S. Steamboat Inspection Service in the book (he only notes that case after case was dropped).  The one investigation and trial that is covered is that of Captain Van Schaick.  Although the captain did spend time in prison, he received public sympathy (even from the jury members who found him guilty) and was released early.  Sadly, little came from this tragedy.<br /><br />O'Donnell's account of the disaster is very moving.  He presents facts but never strays away from the human element of the tragedy.  The details on the many safety violations of the steamship will demonstrate how easily these deaths could have been prevented.  I highly recommend this book and hope many people read it because this tragedy should have a greater place in American history and consciousness.  The book includes a middle section of photos and contemporary newspaper clippings on the inside cover (hard cover edition).	2004-09-08
US	51752008	R13RJE0YX0AMGW	1559723475	400290259	The Titanic Conspiracy: Cover-Ups and Mysteries of the World's Most Famous Sea Disaster	Books	3	12	14	N	N	"Olympic" Conspiracy Argument Does Not Hold Water	The title of this book may prompt intrigue or skepticism.  For the skeptics, the book is well researched and written in sophisticated, but readable, language.  The authors analyze issues (many of which seem rather trivial) fairly thoroughly and are able to distinguish fact from fiction.  For those wanting the intrigue of shocking conspiracies, the authors present the idea that the Titanic and Olympic switched places in the first chapters but do not carry on this hypothesis throughout the book. In fact, they do not come back to this point until the latter part of the final (and comparatively short) chapter. <br /> <br />Gardiner and Van Der Vat include a lot of information on White Star Line, Harland and Wolff, and the role of J. P. Morgan (they are highly critical of the financier).  They cover the origin of the \\"Olympic\\" class including the sea trials of both Olympic and Titanic very well.  Chapters in this book also cover the lowering of lifeboats during Titanic's final hours, the role of the Carpathia, Californian (the authors sympathize more with the vilified Capt. Lord than do many other Titanic historians), Mount Temple, and other possible \\"mystery ships\\" at the scene, the behavior of the press when the survivors arrived at New York, and the American and British inquiries. <br /> <br />As an overview of the disaster and the hearings, the book is valuable.  Where the authors fall short is on the bombshell they introduce at the beginning of their book.  The idea is that the Olympic was put in place of the Titanic because the former was built with inferior steel and was in several accidents that cost the White Star Line a lot of money.  The Olympic was getting a propeller blade repaired at the same time and place the Titanic was being prepared for her maiden voyage.  The authors introduce the idea that the two ships switched identities and the troubled Olympic sailed in her sister's place.  Her sinking was planned to be written off White Star's insurance (if theyplanned on sinking her, they certainly were not very organized in doing so).  They back up this theory with the following weak reasons: (1) It was very easy the switch the identities of the ships because they were practically identical, (2) there were 55 last-minute cancellations, including that of J. P. Morgan who claimed to be sick but was seen with his French mistress the day after the sinking to be quite healthy, (3) Chief officer Wilde wrote his sister that he \\"STILL\\" did not like the ship but, since it was the Titanic's maiden voyage, why would he write the word \\"still,\\" (4) only one of the Olympic vets below deck signed on with the Titanic as if they knew a dark secret.  <br /> <br />The authors criticize the \\"nit-picking, repetitious\\" Senator William Alden Smith who conducted the American inquiry, but they are at times just as guilty.  They keep going back to a fire that was allowed to burn in Titanic's sixth bunker only, on the last page, to admit the weakened bunker did not cause the ship to sink. The authors harp on the fact that there were several last minute crew changes at the top including Wilde joining the ship from the Olympic.  Capt. Smith (of whom the authors are extremely critical) apparently wanted some of his Olympic crew with him.  They never seem to go anywhere with this point.  They also pick apart details not related to any conspiracies: the fact that Jack Phillips sent the message \\"Engine room full up to the boilers,\\" which apparently is technologically inaccurate (well, he was under some stress at the time).  They also seem strangely intrigued by J. J. Astor's body being found near a lifeboat when he never got into one (maybe it just floated there). As to the great conspiracy theory, they never get back to it until the very end of the book.  Then they remark that people need conspiracies when disasters occur (i.e. the JFK assassination) as if they are backing off from the conspiracy bomb they themselves set.  An intriguing photograph of\\"401\\" on the starboard propeller of Titanic as she rests in the Atlantic also proves to be a dud: \\"401\\" was the hull number NOT of the Olympic as one  would suspect but of the Titanic (surprise) ; however, according to the authors, parts were borrowed from Titanic and used on the Olympic, so that number does not prove anything (indeed).  Slapping \\"Conspiracy\\" and \\"Cover-Ups\\" on the cover of a book probably improved its sales, but it is really false advertising. The book is valuable for background information and for an overview of the many controversies surrounding the Titanic but, when it comes to the Great Conspiracy, it will disappoint. <br />	2004-09-08
US	51752008	R2ZU5OJ1RWJ6NM	0671207881	128068021	My Crowd	Books	4	10	11	N	N	"Suddenly, I have a dreadful urge to be merry."	My Crowd is a collection of some 200 cartoons (most of which are full page) by the comically macabre illustrator Charles Addams.  About half of these cartoons focus on the ghoulish family who enjoys the things in life many find to be hideous (like lovely poisonous plants and Ebenezer Scrooge \\"bless his heart\\").  This family, who was introduced by Addams in the New Yorker in 1932, spawned the T.V. show named after the artist.  The cartoons featuring this family are some of the best ones in this books; from the bratty son hanging up \\"Bridge Out\\" and \\"Blasting Ahead\\" signs he stole for his bedroom to the proud parents reading a letter from the school about their son's \\"perverse, crafty, and wanton\\" behavior, to poor \\"Lurch\\" being admonished for not picking up an eye of newt at the grocery store.  The father is more freaky than the amorous Gomez of the T.V. show.  The drawings of the mother (Morticia in the series, the characters were not given names in the cartoon) are the best.  Her body language and expressions are great, even if she is just standing with her arms crossed.  Other reoccurring characters, like the handyman who's asked to fix a squeak on a trap door and puts in a window so the family has a delightful view of the cemetery lends the family series even more continuity.    The other cartoons are also often ghoulish but also very witty.  Some have no text like the drawing of two unicorns watching in the rain as an arc sails away or an actress screaming directly to the camera on the movie screen while everyone in the audience turns around to see what she's screaming at.  Then there is the couple driving past a sign that says \\"Children At Play\\" and, ahead of them, you see children ready to push a giant boulder into their path. Another one of my favorites are the prince and princess telling the Medieval marriage counselor they are not \\"living happily ever after.\\"  The cartoons were taken from six books by Charles Addams so, it is probably meant to whet one's appetite around the time of the last Addam's Family movie rather than to be an exhaustive chronicle of Addams' work.  If you like dark humor (i.e. Edward Gorey) this book is for you.	2004-08-24
US	51752008	R1Q7AOGXH3BWLX	2723422003	663438782	La grande histoire illustre du Titanic	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An Invaluable Pictorial Record of the Titanic	I cannot believe that Titanic: An Illustrated History by Don Lynch is no longer in print.  If one is to have a single book about the Titanic, Lynch's is the one to have.  In fact, I believe I read somewhere that this book was given to each member of the cast of James Cameron's film as they were preparing to play their roles.  The text follows the famous ship from its conception through its legacy but, as interesting as this book is to read, the photos are what make this book the most valuable historical record of the Titanic available (or, at least, that WAS available).  It includes many of the incredible paintings by Ken Marschall and, more importantly, hundreds of rare photographs. It includes photographs of the ship being built (with one photo of her anchor being pulled by a team of twenty horses) and memorabilia showing the inside of the Titanic (many of which are probably of her identical sister ship Olympic).  The most amazing photos were taken by Francis Browne while on board the Titanic before disembarking at Queenstown.  Some of the most moving photographs were taken from the Carpathia of the survivors approaching the rescue ship in the lifeboats.  The book also includes many photographs of the ship resting at the bottom of the north Atlantic taken by Robert Ballard's discovery crew.  All sorts of tidbits and information on the Titanic and its legacy are include in separate sections within the text (i.e. the fate of her lifeboats, orphans of the Titanic, the mysterious \\"third ship,\\" etc.).  If you are interested in the Titanic, I recommend seeking this book out before buying any others.  It is the Titanic buff's dream!	2004-08-21
US	51752008	R24ORJ7MOMRPMF	081312249X	798134241	Silent Players: A Biographical and Autobiographical Study of 100 Silent Film Actors and Actresses	Books	3	11	11	N	Y	"Revisionist, almost revolutionary" Gossip w/ Nice Photos	This book by noted silent movie expert Anthony Slide features a photo and approximately three pages of biographical text (although some have as little as one page of text) on the following actors and actresses:  Mignon Anderson, Mary Astor, William Bakewell, Lina Basquette, Madge Bellamy, Constance Binney, Priscilla Bonner, Hobart Bosworth, Evelyn Brent, Mary Brian, Gladys Brockwell, Kate Bruce, John Bunny, Ruth Clifford, Elmer Clifton, Miriam Cooper, Pauline Curley, Viola Dana, Bebe Daniels and Ben Lyon, Philippe De Lacy, Carol Dempster, Dorothy Devore, Richard Dix, Billie Dove, Claire DuBrey, Virginia Brown Faire, Bess Flowers, Howard Gaye, Lillian Gish, Dagmar Godowsky, Jetta Goudal, Ethel Grandin, Ralph Graves, Gilda Gray, Corinne Griffith, Robert Harron, William S. Hart, Alice Howell, Alice Joyce, Madge Kennedy, Doris Kenyon, J. Warren Kerrigan, Laura La Plante - The Legends: Lon Chaney, Charlie Chaplin, Greta Garbo, Buster Keaton, Rudolph Valentino; - Harold Lloyd, Babe London, Bessie Love, Dorothy Mackaill, Mary MacLaren, Percy Marmont, Mae Marsh, James Morrison, Jack Mulhall, Mae Murray, Conrad Nagel, Nita Naldi, Mabel Normand, Jane Novak, George O'Brien, Gertrude Olmstead, Seena Owen, Jean Paige, Kathryn Perry, Olga Petrova, Mary Philbin, Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks, Arline Pretty, Esther Ralston, Charles Ray, Wallace Reid, Billie Rhodes, Charles \\"Buddy\\" Rogers, Clarine Seymour, Lowell Sherman, Pauline Starke, Gloria Swanson, Blanche Sweet, Constance Talmadge, Norma Talmadge, Alice Terry, Florence Turner, - The Vamps: Theda Bara, Louise Glaum, Kitty Gordon, Olga Grey, Alice Hollister, Valeska Suratt; - George Walsh, Henry B. Walthall, Kathlyn Williams, Lois Wilson, Margery Wilson, Claire Windsor, and Fay Wray. <br />For mostly selfish reasons, I was a little disappointed by this book because many silent player names (well known or otherwise) I run across and would like to look up I do not find in this book. I was also disappointed in the biography on the actor about whom I know the most because I run a tribute website on him.  I did not learn much new about him through this book which surprised me because he was very famous between 1914-16 and Slide knew several actors and actresses who worked with him (i.e. Lillian Gish). As many other reviewers have noted, there is a lot of gossipy information in this book (Slide calls it \\"revisionist, almost revolutionary\\").  Everything from Robert Harron dying a virgin to Mary Pickford's drunken rages aimed at her husband Buddy Rogers. Certainly, one would be hard pressed to find such stories in other books.  One of the best features in the book, however, are the photos.  Every star has a full page photo (except for those in the \\"Legends\\" and \\"Vamps\\" chapters who have a smaller photo and only a paragraph of text).  Many of the photos seem to be quite unusual.  I had never seen the photo used in this book of my website subject before.  Slide does not use the commonly seen publicity shots for this book, which is nice.  If the above names intrigue you and you like a bit of controversy, I recommend this book but, as a reference guide to silent movie stars, I was disappointed in it.	2004-05-31
US	51752008	R3HSTV866RIJ21	0743255364	66298239	To Conquer the Air: The Wright Brothers and the Great Race for Flight	Books	5	1	1	N	N	&quot;A New Kind of Gull in New York Harbor&quot;	As the title of the book states, James Tobin offers a study of the progression of the airplane not just as a Wright brothers biography but as an examination of the efforts of many scientists and inventors in the &quot;race for flight.&quot;  As Tobin follows the years of research and test flights of the Wilbur and Orville Wright, he also switches to the works of Smithsonian Secretary Samuel Langley and Charles Manly, Octave Chanute, Alexander Graham Bell and his crew of young, ambitious visionaries which included the Wrights' chief rival Glenn Curtiss, and inventors who made their fame in France where lighter-than-air fliers were king.  Tobin demonstrates through articles and correspondences how these experimenters influenced and motivated each other in their steps toward the creation of a practical flying machine.<br />Although this book is not a biographical study per se, Tobin does offer a lot of information on the personalities of the Wrights.  Tobin examines the many letters between the brothers, their father, and sister Kate to give the reader some sense of what these quiet, mysterious inventors working in a bicycle shop were like.  Tobin also gives the reader some historical context for the times; for example, the popularity of bicycles at the turn of the century during which the Wrights had their own cycle company (pg. 45), or the importance of the photos in McClure's magazine of Otto Lilienthal gliding in his makeshift monoplane in 1894 two years before he met a tragic fate in another experimental flight (pg. 49) (photographs of things in motion being relatively new at the time).<br />The details in this book demonstrates exhaustive research.  One learns, for example, that the brothers had two buzzers in their cycle shop so that, if the second buzzer rang, they knew the customer came in just to air up his tires and they could remain upstairs conducting their many wind tunnel experiments.  Of course, Tobin describes each stay at Kitty Hawk where the brotherstried their machines, Wilbur's demonstrations in France, Orville's demonstrations at Fort Myer (where the brother was injured and one of Bell's young crew members was killed), and Wilbur's sensational circling of the Statue of Liberty.  I agree with another reviewer that the famous first flight on December 17, 1903 is not emphasized.  I did not realize I was reading about it when I got to it.  It is buried among all the many test glides of the Wrights and the frustrations of Langley.  But there are many books that cover this topic thoroughly.  Tobin is looking at the larger picture in this book.<br />The book is 366 pages of text with occasional photographs and illustrations plus a middle section of photos.  It does not become hampered by technical data.  The mechanical element of flying machines is described (i.e. the observation of birds to determine how the wings should work) but not in a way that distracts from the human aspect of the story.  This is the first book I've read on the Wright brothers and I enjoyed it very much. I also think it is a worthwhile book for those who've already read books on the Wrights as it is an overview of the quest for flight which may cover aspects of the story that other books do not.	2004-05-23
US	51752008	R1U1A6S3L37S5Y	0425191044	599723568	A Playdate with Death (A Mommy-Track Mystery)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Questionable Paternity, Tay-Sachs, and Death	I picked up A Playdate with Death because I was intrigued by its title and cover artwork.  It is a well-written, fast-moving book. Author Ayelet Waldman seems to put a lot of her personal experiences into her books.  Just like the book's heroine Juliet Applebaum, Waldman is a former public defender turned stay-at-home-mom.   Applebaum often wavers from loving her two young children and movie-making husband and homelife to borderline resenting her family from keeping her from pursuing her career aspirations.  In a very un-Dr. Laura way, Applebaum reflects: \\"Since I'd quit work, I'd found myself increasingly bored and frustrated with staying home. I'd left my job because I thought raising my kids myself was more important than working, but sometimes it was difficult to imagine my sighing, listless presence around the house was really doing Ruby and Isaac any good\\" (pg. 73).  At this point, she must juggle her strong-minded daughter's schedule and drag around her 2  year old son who still demands to be nursed (at one disturbing point, the child announces \\"bring me my breasts\\"!) as she investigates the sudden and suspicious death of her physical trainer.  His death is deemed a suicide, but Applebaum is not so sure.<br />Waldman obviously conducted a lot of research in writing this book, especially on the Tay-Sachs disease which plays a large role in the story.  Some parts of the book seemed a little unrealistic, especially the ease with which Applebaum was able to get numerous strangers to open up about extremely sensitive issues.  Applebaum seems to do no wrong in this book, getting answers she needs from people in only a few visits, having a cop turned private investigator beg her to work with him because of her legal skills, even succeeding in firing some rounds at a rifle range for the first time.  Her distaste for firearms is also substantiated.  The book is fast-moving enough to hold one's attention, but, to me, the circumstances surrounding the death were moreintriguing than the whodunnit.  One fun sidenote: when searching her trainer's laptop, Applebaum runs across a review the suicide/murder victim wrote on Amazon for a John Grisham book which \\"he liked...okay but he wasn't thrilled\\" (pg. 52).  He probably gave it 3-stars like I am giving A Playdate with Death.	2004-04-27
US	51752008	R32IDNOLA74Z9I	088029714X	306733744	The Medieval Underworld	Books	3	30	30	N	N	"an hysterical fear of witches produced hysterical witches"	The Medieval Underworld, first published in 1979, caught my eye because of its very intriguing title and cover artwork.  Although its subject matter will attract a lot of casual readers, I found the text to be at the level of a graduate student in Medieval studies.  Andrew McCall's writing style does not help the less knowledgeable reader gain more wisdom on this subject as he often writes in very long and complex sentences.  One sentence on page 53 is 124 words long!  The author assumes quite a bit of previous knowledge on the part of the reader.  Students of Medieval times will no doubt find this book very useful as it touches on fringe groups of Medieval society that may not be covered as thoroughly in other works.  For casual readers, the book is very interesting but challenging.  It is not a book to read on a lunch break at the office or in a noisy waiting room.  It is a type of book that demands full concentration.<br />Briefly, this is what the book offers: The first chapter (8 pages) briefly examines two obvious questions stemming from the title: what are the Middle Ages and who consists of the \\"underworld\\"?  McCall describes the underworld as \\"people unwilling or unable to comply with the laws of Medieval society\\" (p. 11).  The second chapter (22 pages) examines church, state, and sin; in particular, Canon law versus secular law.  Next is a 41-page look at crime and punishment.  Such forms of punishment examined are compurgation (public swearing on oath), ordeal by boiling water, fire, and cold water, trial by battle (with several cool examples of its use), torture, and corporal punishment.  Chapter four describes bandits, freebooters, and outlaws (51 pages).  Many of such criminals were professional soldiers not paid during peacetime and hiding in the woods and wreaking havoc on unfortunate travelers who encountered them. Chapter five (46 pages) looks at thieves and beggars, including lepers, fake medicine men, counterfeiters, and other scam artists.   Prostitutes are examined next.  The Medieval names for brothel areas is one interesting (and humorous) footnote to this chapter (pg. 191).  The next two chapters are on homosexuals (11 pages) and heretics (28 pages).  The latter chapter includes a look at flagellants who would endure public displays of self-mutilation.  Chapter 19 (21 pages) covers sorcerers and witches and chapter 10 is a very interesting examination of anti-Semitism (26 pages).  The last chapter is a very brief look at Hell through Dante's Divine Comedy (4 pages).<br />The book has many illustrations, footnotes, a bibliography section, and an index.  Although the text is difficult at times and could have been written more clearly, if a reader is up to the challenge, this book is very interesting and can be quite entertaining.	2004-04-18
US	51752008	R1MVKSF85G3E1N	0812966287	564633047	I May Be Wrong but I Doubt It	Books	3	6	6	N	N	"I'm tired of talking about stuff that doesn't matter"--C.B.	I checked out this book because I enjoy listening to Charles Barkley on TNT and am also a big fan of Michael Wilbon (who provides the introduction to this book) and his ESPN program Pardon the Interruption.  In fact a few of the issues brought up in the book are used by Wilbon a lot on his television show like PETA, the lack of African Americans on the popular reality shows, DWB (Driving While Black), the wonders of the Dish etc.<br />Barkley writes about many issues, but does not get into too much depth on anything.  Even his reflections on his childhood in Leeds, Alabama jumps around.  Insights from being in the NBA so many years are mostly general and only really touch the surface.  Tidbits that piqued my interest, like the fact that NBA players get a new pair of basketball shoes for every game and that many of the younger players today do not listen to the advice of Barkley and other statesmen of the game are only mentioned.  His experience as member of the legendary Dream Team would benefit from more depth, though he does mention an eye-opening moment with Magic Johnson not long after Johnson announced he was HIV positive (pg. 190).<br />Other times, I think he takes the safe route on issues.  He devotes significant space to his belief that Catholic Priests found guilty of sexually abusing children should be put in jail...OK. He also stops short of controversy.  He will make a statement like: \\"Bobby Knight pretty much just wanted to keep guys he could control [on the 1984 Olympic team].  There were a lot of good players who were cut, guys who were better than ones who made the team\\" (pg 177).  Well, how were the players who made the team more controllable?  Who made the team who was not better than some who were cut?  Alas, these questions are never answered. He mentions players who should have made the Fifty Greatest NBA players list (pg. 187).  That's easy, but the harder more controversial part, mentioning names who should be replaced by these players, is not touched on.  <br />He does discuss important issues like racism (\\"people rarely talk about race until something tragic or ugly happens,\\" pg. 42) and topics that make you think, like the idea that professional athletes can have a greater impact through business than through athletics or media double standards for players surrounded by controversial situations like Patrick Roy, Jason Kidd, and the late Darryl Kile. (pp. 89-90). Other times, he skips around to all sorts of topics from militias to African Americans winning Oscars.  The book is written in a chatty manner with a lot of repetition and no strong attention to organization.  Some of his comments are already dated (i.e. that Kobe Bryant has not done anything to embarrass himself or his family and that no high school student or one-year college student coming into the NBA has made an immediate impact).  Still, for the most part, it is a fun book that most Barkley fans will enjoy. Just don't expect to be amazed.	2004-04-11
US	51752008	R134NWVGXMKZWN	006052149X	591760941	Dilbert and the Way of the Weasel: A Guide to Outwitting Your Boss, Your Coworkers, and the Other Pants-Wearing Ferrets in Your Life	Books	3	8	10	N	N	&quot;To err is human, to cover it up is weasel&quot; &quot;FFT-FFT&quot;	When I picked up The Way of the Weasel, I thought I could breeze through it during a week f lunch breaks.  The text is fast-moving and witty and is complemented by Dilbert comic strips.  Actually, this 350-page book is jam-packed and took me three times as long to read than I anticipated.  Adams describes the many types and behaviors of weasels who are basically people who lie, cheat, and fudge to get the most benefit out of the least amount of work.  In other words, weasels are every character in the Dilbert comic strip and nearly everyone in the capitalist system.  But, as Adams maintains, weasels are the &quot;motor oil for society.&quot;  Without weasels, capitalism-not to mention human relations-would not work.  We need people to feed us lies and misinformation or no one would buy all our defective merchandise, engage in thankless friendships, participate in government, etc. (345-46). Of course, his book concentrates on the business aspects of weaseldom.  <br />The book is divided into 27 chapters, the longest of which are the first few.  Some of the main chapters include Avoiding Work the Weasel Way, Getting Your Way at Work, and Manager Weasels.  Many of the later chapters are short, miscellaneous observations on everything from airline service to televangelists to anti-itch creams that don't work.  It seems sometimes as though Adams steers his subject in ways that help him include certain comic strips.<br />Although many of Adams' ideas are tongue-in-cheek and over-the-top, lots of his witty comments hit very close to home, especially if you work in the business field.  My favorite topics include weaselmath (pg. 48), meetings (&quot;the person who is the least competent usually does the most talking,&quot; pg. 80), being creative with price quotes, and, because I work in retail, retail weasels (&quot;There are two types of retail weasels: unscrupulous (i.e. paid on commission); lazy (i.e. paid by the hour),&quot; pg. 204-so true).  I also enjoyed the chapterWeasels are from Venus (&quot;There are two types of women: the ones who are currently in discomfort, and the ones who are actively seeking it,&quot; pg. 248). Plus, emails from people who either are weasels or who work with weasels are included throughout the book.  The book, while funny and witty, does drag on.  After page 200, one is sure to get the point.  The last chapters are disorganized and seem to be &quot;filler&quot; material.  Adams' arrogant tone is also annoying at times.  Still, it is a fun book for fans of the comic strip or those who like light humor on a variety of topics, particularly business.	2004-03-23
US	51752008	RQUMPWO3OB58E	0060974990	177861916	Savage Inequalities: Children in America's Schools	Books	4	19	22	N	N	"We know things other kids don't because we're taught them"	Jonathan Kozol started teaching at a segregated school in Boston in 1964.  The students in his fourth grade class had to share a classroom with another class, a choir, and a drama group rehearsing for a play that was never performed.  He was the 13th teacher they had in the year.  After being fired for having his students read a poem that was not on a pre-approved list, he moved on to a wealthier school and found a much more accommodating system of education with smaller classes, better materials, and more innovation.  In his study of underfunded schools in poor neighborhoods in East St. Louis, Chicago, New York, New Jersey, Washington D.C., and San Antonio, he found that little has changed.<br />This book is an eye opener as to the educational system in this country. Segregation is alive & well decades after Brown v. Board of Education.  Most of the schools he visited are close to other wealthier (and predominately white) schools so he can really show the inequality between them.  The poorer schools have limited to nonexistent materials and equipment.  One school in New York (known simply as public school 261) conducts classes in an abandoned roller rink with no identification and not even a single encyclopedia set.   One of the few exceptional teachers he found had to buy materials out of her pocket (pg. 47).  The enormously high drop out rates at these schools are almost welcomed as they free up seats in the over-crowded classrooms (pp. 54 and 111).  Most heartbreaking is that so many teachers and administrators he talked to seem to have given up on improving conditions and saving these kids.  More than once, adults are quoted as dismissing the matter with \\"They're not going anywhere\\" (pp. 52 and 160).   Kozol also looks at the neighborhoods outside of the schools as further proof that these children are at a disadvantage from the beginning.  One neighborhood in the southside of Chicago has one bank, one market, 48 lottery stations, and 99 bars and liquor stores(pg. 41).<br />The author's solution is financial: more funding if not by diverting money from the more affluent schools than by state funding.   As depressing as these stories are, sadly, I do not think this book will sway the opinions of those who feel added funding will be wasted on these schools.  I sympathize with the author's goals but, even I begin to be exasperated by some of the attitudes of the teachers and school officials in these schools. One school has a barrel in the counselor's office because the roof leaks so bad (pg. 103).  One of the counselors admits the students wish it would stop raining in the office (well, duh).  I find myself wondering aloud why nobody fixes it, whether a custodian, male teacher, or someone in the community.   Woodrow Wilson school in New Jersey has 50 computers.  Sounds great, but 40 cannot be used because they've melted.  Why?  They're set up above the boiler room and they are still there! (pg. 149). Why aren't they moved?  Someone points out the school's namesake, but Wilson stood for self-determination (i.e. the 14 points).  I know these are easy questions to ask when one does not live and work in such conditions and there are probably good answers to them but that is what skeptical readers may think when they read this book.  While the study is eye opening, unfortunately, I do not think it will sway the opinions of those who feel that funding such schools is sending good money after bad.	2004-03-05
US	51752008	R3KIUT7J1AW42U	0789484250	341722749	Space Shuttle: The First 20 Years -- The Astronauts' Experiences in Their Own Words	Books	4	1	1	N	N	"We go into space because of the human spirit"--Loren Acton	Most books I've read on the Space Shuttle are political in nature. Many also focus on the problems with the shuttle system: the tragedies of Challenger and Columbia and the mishaps of Mir and Hubble.  This book, however, considers the firsthand accounts of the men and women who flew, lived, and worked in space since the first shuttle launch in 1981.  Scores of astronauts and payload and mission specialists participated in this project (no Russian cosmonauts, however, were contacted for this book) and provided reminiscences on everything from training,  what it is like during launch, experiences in zero gravity, space sickness, watching earth from 165 miles up, space walking, experiments conducted, horseplay on the shuttle, coming home, etc. Each personal story is about a page in length (some even shorter) and are surrounded by tons of full color photographs. This book was published before the Columbia tragedy and two astronauts who perished on that mission (Rick Husband and Kalpana Chawla) provide stories.<br />Some of my favorite stories: Jack Lousma's frank account on how he never knew when to safely use ejector seats (pg. 24); Sultan Bin Salman Al-Saud on returning to Saudi Arabia \\"I could not believe that our people had that kind of excitement in them\\" (pg. 45); Rhea Seddon on the Pepsi/Coke experiments (Pepsi's space can was just a shaving cream container with a label slapped on while Coke spent loads on their special can); Bob Cenker on how NASA never kept the life threatening danger from \\"teacher in Space\\" Christa McAuliffe before the doomed Challenger flight (pg. 57); Congressman Bill Nelson on his close call; Hoot Gibson on a top secret mission from which he received a medal \\"he could only wear in a safe\\" (pg. 66); John Blaha and Jerry Linenger on life aboard Mir (pp. 90-1); and a photo caption on how the shuttle circles the earth every 90 minutes so it experiences \\"sunrise\\" in that amount of time (pg. 244).  Of course, there a lot more interesting stories.<br />I'm not sure if it would have been possible, but I'd enjoy the book more if it included photos of the storytellers next to their reminiscences.  Most of the time, the photos (albeit related to the topic described) are of other people.  When I read the stories I sometimes got a mental picture of the person(s) in the photos only to realize they were not the same person.  That's just a minor criticism.  Anyone interested in astronaut life will enjoy this book. The stories are not very technical and are usually about fun or awe inspiring moments.  Although, it is definitely a pro-space program book, there is nothing political or controversial here.  It also includes a list of each mission with the passengers and experiments conducted, and simplified looks at the shuttle and its launch pattern, Mir, and the International Space Station.	2004-03-03
US	51752008	R2M5V02GTVCGKF	0446518514	38746032	Exploring the Lusitania: Probing the Mysteries of the Sinking That Changed History	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Dr. Ballard is master of the seas!	This handsome companion to the excellent National Geographic documentary is the best overview and photographic record of the Lusitania disaster I have seen.  If you only own or read one book on the Lusitania, let it be this one!  It covers the key issues surrounding the tragedy: Why did the powerful, double bottom ship go down so quickly (only 18 minutes compared to over 2 hours for the less robust Titanic)?; What caused the second explosion?; Was the Lusitania carrying arms?  Dr. Robert Ballard, who discovered the Titanic and explored the Bismarck, uses advanced equipment to go down into the ocean's depths to answer these questions and to give us a glimpse of how the Lusitania looks today through remarkable photographs and the masterpieces of maritime artist Ken Marschall.    The text of the book is very well-written.  It does not go into as much of depth as longer books as it explains the sinking through accounts of select survivors, some alive at the time of the book's publication.  Still, it reveals many lesser known points. First Sea Lord Winston Churchill, in France at the time of the tragedy, might have ordered a naval escort for the famed passenger liner (pg. 78).  It notes that the U.S. tanker Gunflight was torpedoed the week before (pg. 124).  Unlike the documentary, readers learn that nurse Alice Lines--who was still alive when the documentary was made--actually missed the lifeboat when she made her desperate leap with baby Audrey (pg. 102).  The book takes a fair look at the sinking.  There is much empathy for the German side (Lusitania was, after all, an auxiliary cruiser in a war zone) and is quite critical of Captain Turner who ignored the Admiralty's instructions on steering a zigzag course away from the shore in areas where subs lurked.  The most valuable part of this book on a informational level is that it solves the mystery of the second explosion some witnesses believed was a second torpedo or the explosion of arms in the ships magazine.     Asinteresting as the text is, the illustrations make this book the best on the subject.  Photos and startlingly accurate period postcards give the reader a look at Lusitania's interior in first, second, and steerage classes.  Posters and memorabilia illustrate the propaganda war which followed.  Finally, pages 144-89 explore the Lusitania and compares the ship then & now in remarkable photos.  The highlight is a well preserved first class tub and shower found just outside the ship compared with a period illustration (pp. 172-3).  A fold-out shows the sunken giant in full length thanks to the excellent work of artist Marschall.  His realistic paintings look like photographs!      The book is very thorough.  It includes a critical look at the inquiries into the sinking, the fates of some of the major players including U Boat commander Schwieger, a brief look at Lusitania's sister ship Mauretania, and a chronology of the two Cunard sisters.  The only inconsistency I found was that Schwieger reported that he did not know he had torpedoed the Lusitania until he saw her name on her bow; however, the Lusitania name was covered up at the time to trick the enemy during the war (pg. 203).  Still, this book is an excellent introduction to the Lusitania story and a more than sufficient and revealing account if one chooses not to read further.	2004-02-25
US	51752008	R32WP9A1PF1865	0321081412	83676962	America's Teachers: An Introduction to Education (4th Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Straight-Forward Overview of the Teaching Profession	Joseph Newman's America's Teachers takes a practical, non-sugar-coated, unbiased look at the teaching profession.  The book includes where the profession is, how it got there, and what new teachers can expect for the future.  First, Newman considers the reasons people choose to become teachers.  He admits that some of these reasons are not the best.  Then he examines expected salaries and alternative methods for paying teachers (i.e. merit pay).  He also looks at alternative routes to the profession due to complaints that education professors are out of touch with elementary and secondary schools.  <br />Other subjects examined are teacher's unions, court rulings affecting teacher's rights, and the history of teaching reforms. The four philosophies of education (idealism, realism, pragmatism, and existentialism) are described in a factual way that allows the reader to decide which (if any) are useful.  The same impartial attention is paid to the different theories on education including perennialism, the Paideia Proposal, essentialism (back to basics), changes in curriculum, and the public v. private school debate.  This book covers the bases in a fair and thorough manner and is an excellent introduction for students.	2004-02-18
US	51752008	RHRKK2Q83300D	0743235037	78011641	The Sea Shall Embrace Them: The Tragic Story of the Steamship Arctic	Books	5	1	2	N	N	"the sea is an unforgiving body"	Readers who approach Shaw's The Sea Shall Embrace Them as an academic historical account of the sinking of the American steamship Arctic in 1854 will be disappointed.  Although Shaw mentions sources sporadically throughout the text (mostly at the beginning), most of the information, including quotations, are not referenced.  Shaw writes a lot of details including what was going through the minds of the main people involved in the tragedy, their mannerisms, the environment they saw, etc. through interpretation.  <br />If readers approach this work as history written for a mass audience presented with a novelist's flair, they will find this book to be riveting.  The chapters are brief (most around 8 pages) and the story is interesting, exciting, and fast-moving.  At times, it may be a little more flowery than most students of history are used to, but such possibly superfluous descriptions of scenery, etc. are not that distracting.  It mostly affects a handful of pages in the first chapters, although my favorite example is on page 152: \\"...men and women, as well as their teenagers, children, and infants, would never again admire the blazing fall foliage soon to be dressing the environs of New York in a spectrum of orange, red, and yellow even more intense in color than when Arctic set off on her last voyage in September.\\" The book does not always read like this, though.  Of course, the story gets more exciting as it approaches the accident and sinking with huge loss of life; however, I also found the beginning chapters very interesting, especially the competition between the English Cunard Line and the American Collins Line for supremacy of the overseas mail.  Cunard will of course be challenged later by the White Star Line which created Titanic and her sister ships.  Much of this story has similarities to Titanic, so those who enjoy reading about the latter will probably find this book to be of great interest.  <br />Shaw demonstrates an incredible amount of research.When listing the salaries of the Collins employees or the price of a ticket on the Arctic, he includes the equivalent in today's money which better explains his points (it cost over $2,300 in today's money for a first class one-way fair, pg 40. Ouch!).  He also uncovers many interesting details.  For example, 7 of the 9 ships Luce captained before Arctic sank under another captain's command (pg. 87).<br />Footnotes would help this book.  For example, why does Shaw describe Luce as being depressed while setting of on his final voyage on the Arctic?  Was the detail garnered from a diary entry or a later account made by the captain?  Still, Shaw demonstrates vast knowledge of the sea and I am confident many of his details, while probably not derived directly from sources, is relatively accurate. Some elements are found lacking.  For example, there is much information on those struggling for life on rafts and a paddle box, but nothing on those who left early in the lifeboats who survived.  Possibly these survivors-mostly crew-feared reprisals if they gave their accounts, but such is not noted.  Also, Shaw maintains that the seemingly doomed Vesta could have saved all passengers and crew on Arctic if Luce had stuck around (pg. 120).  What substantiates this claim?  Vesta was a smaller ship crippled by the collision.  Did an inquiry come to this conclusion?  For the most part though, Shaw tells the story quite thoroughly considering the amount of source material available.  Shaw also explains why this story is important (the Arctic was a symbol of American pride).  Although the ending seems a little skimpy, Shaw explains that, due to the times, there was not as much outrage over some of the disgraceful stories that came out as to the behavior of some of the crew members as one would expect in the sue-happy times in which we now live (pg. 203).  Despite its faults in terms of documentation, The Sea Shall Embrace Them is a compelling tale beautifully told.	2004-02-18
US	51752008	R375GO14FNTK54	140130057X	764274447	The Teammates: A Portrait of a Friendship	Books	5	3	3	N	N	"How many people have friendships that last so long"	David Halberstam's Teammates is about Boston Red Sox Dominic DiMaggio, Bobby Doerr, Johnny Pesky, and Ted Williams; who enjoyed close friendships during their playing days which continued through the rest of their lives.  The book begins with Pesky, DiMaggio and Red Sox historian Dick Flavin driving to Florida to spend their last time with the ailing Williams.  Doerr could not make the trek as he was in Oregon taking care of his wife who had weakened after suffering two strokes.  From here, Halberstam takes the reader through a brief history of each of these players and their steadfast friendship through the decades.<br />Much of the book is centered around Williams, the most famous of the four, of course, and the most dominating of the personalities.  Halberstam does an excellent job painting the characters in such a way that the reader feels he/she really knows them.  Such is especially the case with Williams; the intense perfectionist who demanded the most of himself and those around him.  Included in this book are stories of Williams' long debate with Doerr over the proper swing (Williams always winning the argument) which is described in a hitting clinic during a fishing trip in 1987.  Even a friendly day of fishing with Doerr turned into an uncomfortable situation when Williams believed his friend kept missing opportunities to catch tarpons.  The author, in fact, kept the fact that he fished from Williams until after his first interview with the star to avoid a potentially disastrous fishing excursion before he obtained his story (pg. 80).  Halberstam describes Williams' poor childhood and homelife to help the reader understand this domineering figure driven always to be the best. <br />Baseball historians will enjoy the many reminiscences of the old-time players of the day.   Halberstam details game seven of the 1946 World Series and Dominic DiMaggio sets the record straight about the infamous Pesky play (Curiously, Williams' views on that play are not revealed).  The author also sought out former Red Sox pitchers Tex Houghson and Boo Ferriss to find out what happened to weaken the potentially great Boston pitching staff after their World Series run.  Halberstam spent many hours with all four of these players in interviews for other works and had the cooperation of the three surviving teammates and their wives when writing this book.  This relationship between author and subject gives the reader confidence in the book's accuracy and sincerity.  The book is fast moving (200 pages of text) and well written.  It includes the four teammates' career statistics, Boston's standings from 1937-53, and many wonderful photographs.	2004-02-12
US	51752008	R3O6SZB94HB6K4	0151003084	369602495	The Gashlycrumb Tinies	Books	5	9	9	N	N	&quot;N is for Neville who died of ennui&quot;	But you will not die of ennui if you open this book.  It illustrates the misfortunes of 26 children with names A-Z to a ghoulishly humorous rhyme.  The cover image of the umbrella wielding symbol of death and his doomed &quot;tinies&quot; is one of the most famous artwork out there; especially in the gothic world.  Inside are drawings of the children before or after their sudden deaths.  My favorite is &quot;H is for Hector done in by a thug&quot; with a drawing of an innocent schoolboy and two arms holding a long piece of cloth in the background.  No doubt this scene was inspired by the barbaric cult that practiced ritual strangulation known as the &quot;Thuggies.&quot;  The most gruesome drawing is &quot;K is for Kate who was struck with an axe&quot; the rest are more witty than grisly.  Like the title, this book is tiny in size as well but big on macabre humor!	2004-02-07
US	51752008	R1Z8PSJI7FLOEQ	0688144667	269128966	Country Living Seasons at Seven Gates Farm	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Crafts, Plants, and Veggies the Whole Year Round	This book details the creative designs of two artistic guys who purchased the nineteenth century Seven Gates Farm in Keedysville, Maryland.  If you like country, Americana, and crafts, you will love this book.  Hundreds of full color photographs tour the farm during each season of the year.  The reader can see how the farm changes when the landscape is covered with different plants and the house is taken over by a new crop of crafts and collectibles. These artists must have incredible cupboard space to house their thousands of knickknacks and antiques as new ones are brought out for the season or holiday.  The vintage flags unveiled for the Fourth of July I found to be some of the more interesting displays.  The farm is near Antietam, so the Civil War heritage is very important in these parts.  One of the flags displayed was used in a Civil War battle.<br />The book also gives the reader step-by-step instructions and hints for making crafts or collecting antique/vintage items.  Some of the things you can learn to create are myrtle topiaries, cold frames for getting a head start on the growing season (also through the use of bell jars), creative table decorations, miniature gardens, herb-covered eggs, rustic twig scarecrows (very cute), scented water, summer vinegar dressings, and angel shoes for Christmas ornaments.  You can also learn a little bit about collecting rag dolls, calicoes, miniature log cabins, and blankets.  I liked seeing the changes through the seasons, but I think it would have been more effective if the book pictured each of the main features (the greenhouse, wash-house, smokehouse, vegetable garden, etc.) in order for each season so the changes are more evident and the reader can easily flip pages and compare a different area for each season.  As it is, some areas are not even covered for each season.  The map on the inside front and back covers is helpful for following the landscape of the property.  Anyone interested in crafts will enjoy this book.	2004-02-06
US	51752008	R36LLLJQ70OX69	0297836285	676930082	Tombs, Graves and Mummies: Great Discoveries in World Archaeology	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent Reference with Incredible Photographs	Thombs, Graves &amp; Mummies is a reference book, but not in the traditional sense.  It does not have discoveries divided in alphabetical order but rather in 6 categories: Bones, Graves, Cemeteries, Tombs, Corpses, and Mummies.  The Bones category includes information on Lucy, the Turkana Boy, the Neanderthals, and remains from eastern Asia and Australia as well as human sacrifices at Archanes-Anemospilia.  Graves looks at mass burials, the &quot;puzzle of Neanderthal burials,&quot; the remains of Tsar Nicholas II and his family, as well as other subjects.  The Cemeteries section shows remains as they were discovered and also includes a photo of deformed skulls found at the Paracus Peninsula on the south coast of Peru manipulated when children had their heads wrapped to force their skulls to form in a shape aesthetically pleasing to their culture.  Battlefield cemeteries are also covered including the Battle of Little Big Horn.  Tombs include the Danish Bronze Age log coffin burials and includes an outfit of an Egtved girl that is over 3,000 years old.  Tombs of the Persian Gulf and the Qin Terracotta Army are a few of many other tombs described.<br />My favorite section is on Corpses.  From the 5,000 year old Iceman to the victims of Pompeii and the Inka Mountain sacrifices, I find this area of study fascinating.  The two subjects I found the most interesting are the Bog Bodies of Britain and Denmark and the tragedy of the Franklin Expedition.  The photographs are amazing.  The face of one of the Bog bodies looks so serene with even stubble growing on his chin yet he may have died a terrible death.  The remains of the Franklin Expedition are so well preserved right down to their eyeballs that they look like they could almost start talking.  The Mummies section covers mostly Ancient Egypt (the Valley of the Kings and the family of King Tut). The book is a fascinating overview of some of the greatest discoveries in archeology and will probably prompt the reader to look into more information on certain subjects (as I looked for more books on the Franklin Expedition). The hundreds of revealing photographs, most of which are in full color, make this book an excellent choice for anyone interested in any of the subjects above.	2004-02-04
US	51752008	R26S88CKHB9WQE	0375505733	70699899	Mysterious Stranger: A Book of Magic	Books	5	31	33	N	N	&quot;If this is magic, let it be an art&quot;	David Blaine's Mysterious Stranger is a very interesting and creative book.  I was drawn to the mystifying cover and after thumbing through the book and seeing all the intriguing photographs and clever style and format, I knew I had to check this book out even though I was not aware of Blaine's work save for headlines for his sensational stunts.<br />Blaine is a true expert in his craft.  He is an historian of magic and this book includes stories about many of the important figures in the art of illusions and escapology: Dedi who performed for Cheops in Ancient Egypt, the stone eaters, Robert-Houdin, Max Malini, Alexander Herrmann, Titanic Thompson--a con-man who even outwitted Al Capone, the fascinating Stylites who lived atop high pillars to escape the evilness of earthly life, and, of course, Harry Houdini.  Blaine puts his heart and soul into his magic.  He includes stories of his childhood, how he became interested in magic (seeing a photo of Houdini who was clinging to a railing with his chin), and his devotion to his late mother.  Accompany this history are guides to basic card tricks and illusions, so be sure you have a deck handy when reading this book.<br />He also, of course, describes experiences that made him famous: filming his television show Street Magic, attending a voodoo ceremony in Haiti, braving the Venezuelan rainforest to meet the Yanomano Indians, and his daredevil stunts of being buried alive, standing in ice, and standing on a pillar.  He describes his grueling regime of preparation which included learning to sleep while standing up while preparing for his ice demonstration.  Blaine shows a deep appreciation for the tradition behind his stunts and illusions.  His claim that magic brings all people together because people of different ethnicity, religions, and social status all come to see his stunts seems a bit much.  One can say such things about many different spectacles, but when they are over, people go their separate ways.  Still, thebook is fascinating and some of the illustrations will stay with me for a long time.  Anyone interested in the unusual will enjoy Mysterious Stranger.	2004-02-02
US	51752008	RF8KWQQS902B2	075092571X	84467275	The Great Plague	Books	3	8	9	N	Y	Very Well Illustrated, but Not the Definitive Work	I first became aware of this book through the bibliography section of Norman Cantor's In the Wake of the Plague.  He noted that the book was valuable mainly for its illustrations.  After reading The Great Plague, I am inclined to agree.  The subject of the book is the plague that infected London and the surrounding provinces from 1665-67.  There are many illustrations throughout the book, some more or less related to the topic, but all interesting and most I have not seen before.  Many are examples of contemporary art showing the different provinces or scenes of the epidemic itself.  The book is well written for dry facts and numbers, but is not engaging as is, for example, the old Philip Ziegler book on the Black Death. The text is full of statistics, especially in its chapters on London and the Provinces.  One, of course, cannot write about the epidemics without statistics on deaths, etc., but too much reliance on listing them for every province can be very tedious for the reader (a chart certainly would suffice and make it easier for the reader to compare affected areas).  <br />In the chapter on the provinces, each province is covered separately which also makes it arduous.  I kept losing track of what was where and, with the lack of a map in this book, had problems visualizing where each area was as I have no knowledge of English geography.  After chapters of the percentage of deaths, quarantining policies, etc., the final chapter The Plague in Perspective included some issues that I believe might have been covered more; the London fire of 1666 and its alleged role in ending the plague, the effect of the brown rat replacing the black rat, and the distinction of the rat flea and the human flea, to name a few.  One part I found particularly interesting was Porter's explanation of the Bills of Mortality and how the causes of deaths were sometimes fudged so that trade and tourism would not be scared off if word of the first signs of epidemic got out.  The author also includes the title page of London's 1665 Bills of Mortality from his collection on page 153.  For those interested in this subject, The Great Plague is worth owning for the scores of pictures.  The text, however is probably a good starting point but is not the definitive work on the Great Plague.	2004-01-30
US	51752008	RW2UVD9I83UYV	0878335935	124697349	The Von Erichs: A Family Album : Tragedies and Triumphs of America's First Family of Wrestling	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Beautiful book but, sadly, not the complete story	This book showcases the &quot;First Family of Wrestling&quot; with hundreds of wonderful family photos, many of which are in full color.  They include such things as family vacations, Christmases, birthday parties, proms, baby photos, hunting/fishing trips, as well as wrestling photos.   The text covers the history of the Von Erichs, from father Jack Adkisson marriage to Doris Smith (losing his SMU scholarship in the process), to his early wrestling career (the reason for changing his name to Fritz Von Erich is not explained), to the birth of his six sons; five of whom he would outlive.  The photographs reveal a happy, close-knit family, but tragedy always loomed.  <br />Fritz's first son, Jackie, drowned after a freakish accident when seven years old.  His other sons followed Fritz's footsteps in the wrestling profession.  In 1984, third son David, the tall cowboy, was preparing to wrestle for a world title against Ric Flair only to succumb to a ruptured intestine exacerbated by a rare stomach virus while wrestling in Japan. Kerry filled in for his brother and won the championship.  Kevin, Kerry, and Mike were the most popular grapplers in the Denton County, Texas based World Class Championship Wrestling during the mid-1980s.  The book, however, focuses on their family life and only briefly mentions their wrestling triumphs.  Nemesis Gary Hart is pictured once but is not mentioned in the text.    <br />The book ends with Kerry's 1986 motorcycle accident and the 1987 suicide of Mike who suffered a personality change after barely surviving toxic shock syndrome.  The book mentions that Kerry nearly lost his foot, of course, we find out later that Kerry did indeed lose his foot and used a prosthetic boot while in the ring.  If one watches a post-accident Kerry match, one can see that one foot is stiff and does not flex at the toes.  Many fans, however, did not know this until after Kerry shot himself to death in 1993.  He had a stint in the WWF (the only Von Erich to do so) but the possibility of jail time for drug charges and the collapse of his marriage was too much for Kerry.  His death followed that of youngest brother Chris, another suicide.  Such was the so-called &quot;Von Erich curse.&quot;  As the book points out, Christianity was very important in the Von Erich household and this faith is what keeps second son Kevin strong.  He has retired from wrestling and is raising four children, some of whom may follow him in a wrestling career.  Fritz passed away in 1997.  The book is a wonderful tribute with intimate photos and stories that can make readers believe they know the family.  With hindsight, however, it is also an incredibly sad book.	2004-01-28
US	51752008	R2HJTACDXL8YI9	0471158917	753004658	The Book of Assassins: A Biographical Dictionary from Ancient Times to the Present	Books	3	2	3	N	N	With more info and illustrations, this could be excellent	A reference guide to assassins is an excellent idea, but this work does not live up to what can be a very intriguing book.  It is printed on cheap production paper with no illustrations.  Most of the entries are one page.  A plus is that there are many obscure figures included that most readers have never heard of, but there is scant info on them whereas Lee Harvey Oswald, about whom most people already know plenty, has 9 pages.  One other plus is that each entry includes a list of further references so, if readers are intrigued by a specific assassin's tale, they have at least one source to go to for more info.  There is also an index on the victims in the back.  Shop around for the best deal on this book and it will probably be worth it for anyone interested in assassins.	2004-01-27
US	51752008	R9D6J52ID5WNI	1586480855	812796174	America the Beautiful: The Stirring True Story Behind Our Nation's Favorite Song	Books	4	6	6	N	N	&quot;It is not food for the soul, but wine&quot;	Lynn Sherr describes the poem, music, meaning, history, and legacy of the song &quot;America the Beautiful&quot; in this unique book.  In many ways this book is a glimpse at the Progressive era in the United States in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.  Katharine Lee Bates, author of the poem, was a progressive intellectual who supported many views which were considered radical in her time (i.e. women's rights, pacifism, social service, etc.).  Sherr follows Bates on her travels to a teacher's sojourn in Colorado, where Bates received inspiration for her poem.  On her way, Bates visited the 1893 Columbia Exposition in Chicago where she was awed by the &quot;White City&quot; (not so much a racist classification-at least not as Bates regarded it-but an interpretation of the ideal urban civilization).  This experience found its way in the fourth stanza of Bates' poem as &quot;alabaster cities.&quot;  Bates also visited Jane Addams' Hull House on this trip.  Samuel Ward, of which little is known, is also discussed briefly.  Ward wrote the music that would later be used for &quot;America the Beautiful&quot; in the form of a hymn entitled &quot;Materna&quot; (with the lyrics for &quot;Oh Mother, Dear Jerusalem.&quot;)  His inspiration came during a visit to Coney Island.<br />What I found to be fascinating is how Bates' poem captured the hearts of so many people even before it was set to music that many wished was our national anthem.  Bates received hundreds of letters praising her poem from all age groups.  I cannot imagine any poem moving the people of the nation today except, perhaps, if it were in the form of a rap.  I found the explanation on how Bates' poem and Ward's music were united to be very interesting.  Sherr  also includes the original version of the poem and the different changes Bates incorporated.  Sherr put a lot of care into this book, including many photos, postcards, sheet music, and other paraphernalia related to the story.  She also interviewed people like the composer of &quot;A Chorus Line&quot; about the song: &quot;it's very relaxed at [&quot;the fruited plain&quot;] point, and then it just bursts forward&quot; (pg. 56).  Music expert Marvin Hamlisch gives his opinion on other musical renditions of the poem (pg. 62).  Sherr does not hide her political leanings in this book (she mentions that Al Gore used a line from the song as part of his concession speech, which she must have deemed a highlight in the song's legacy).  Sherr is also blatantly sycophantic when describing the life of Bates, but this book is still a very interesting, well-written, and beautifully constructed tribute to one of our most famous patriotic songs.  It has 113 pages of text and is well illustrated.  I recommend shopping around for the best deal.d people like the composer of &quot;A Chorus Line&quot; about the song: &quot;it's very relaxed at [&quot;the fruited plain&quot;] point, and then it just bursts forward&quot; (pg. 56).  Music expert Marvin Hamlisch gives his opinion on other musical renditions of the poem (pg. 62).  Sherr does not hide her political leanings in this book (she mentions that Al Gore used a line from the song as part of his concession speech, which she must have deemed a highlight in the song's legacy).  Sherr is also blatantly sycophantic when describing the life of Bates, but this book is still a very interesting, well-written, and beautifully constructed tribute to one of our most famous patriotic songs.   It has 113 pages of text and is well illustrated.  I recommend shopping around for the best deal.	2004-01-18
US	51752008	R1J2LOHXVKSLQM	B00007CWQL	467268065	Disaster! The Great San Francisco Earthquake and Fire of 1906	Books	4	2	2	N	N	"A blazing red. . . a  hot red, a consuming red"	Disaster!  is a well-written, fast-moving look at the experience of many lives (famous and otherwise) in the face of one of the greatest disasters in U.S. history. The book looks at the unconventional frontier spirit of California's greatest city of the time, spoiled by the graft and corruption of past business and political figures and the current administration of Mayor Schmitz and city boss Abraham Reuf, and tarnished in reputation by the red light districts of Barbary Coast among others, yet loved dearly by most of its residents. It would burn for 74 hours and then, after it burned itself out, mercilessly came the rain. The spirit of optimism was shaken by the experience, but was definitely not destroyed as the city celebrated its rebuilding only nine years later.<br />The book reveals the good and the bad brought out of people by the disaster.  As one witness stated, \\"I had a Catholic Priest kneel by me in the park...and prayed to the holy Father for relief for my pain and ease to my body.  I saw a poor woman, barefoot, told to 'Go to Hell and be glad of it,' for asking for a glass of milk at a dairyman's wagon; she had in her arms a baby with its legs broken\\" (pg. 149).  In many cases, the primitive frontier life returned to the Bay just following the quake.  Some militiamen took Mayor Schmitz's proclamation that looters should be shot on sight to the extreme, killing many civilians for trivial matters.  In other cases, neighbors of different ethnic and social groups came together-made equal by their loss.  One survivor's memory of a free spree at a candy store before it was to be dynamited in an attempt to stop the fire's path carried with him eighty years (pg. 138).<br />The people whose stories are told include a 10-year old future Major League pitcher who searches frantically for the love of his life; a couple separated and presumed dead by neighbors yet never giving up the search for each other; another couple who insisted on going ahead with their wedding plans despite the chaos around them; the renown prima donna tenor Enrico Caruso who thought he had avoided disaster by postponing plans to go to Naples just before the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius; Mayor Schmitz who the very day of the earthquake was to go to a hearing for a case of corruption against him; the head of the Bank of Italy (later the Bank of America) risking life and limb to save his customer's deposits from his doomed building-the list goes on.   <br />The stories are told sporadically in 41 short chapters (some as short as three pages).  Some of the stories are almost too spread out.  The story of actor John Barrymore's experience, for example, was introduced on page 13 and did not continue until page 166.  This style makes it a little difficult to follow at times, but I think it is still better than completing one story and then moving on to the next making the book painfully redundant.   Each story is unique enough to jog the memory after a few lines.  The book has source notes, a list of people whose experiences are described, a map of the San Francisco area, and a lengthy bibliography.  I enjoyed reading this book and recommend it to anyone interested in the subject.	2004-01-13
US	51752008	R3C0GZNWQ3F22D	0810939428	135509954	Valley of the Golden Mummies	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Experience an Ancient Excavation Thru Breathtaking Photos	Zahi Hawass was director general of Giza, Saqqara, Imbaba, and Bahariya Oasis who was concentrating his excavations at the Giza Pyramids, particularly the Tombs of the Pyramid Builders, when the Golden Mummies were discovered in the Bahariya Oasis in 1996. Then on, his efforts shifted to this new discovery. So far, over 100 complete Greco-Roman period mummies have been uncovered at Bahariya ranging in status from wealthy gold-encased merchants to the carelessly prepared poor.  Hawass believes up to ten thousand mummies will eventually be discovered in a fifty year excavation (pg. 16).  Many questions may be answered from these discoveries concerning the influence of Greek and Roman rule on Egyptian life (pg. 18). <br />Hawass gives the reader some insight on what it is like to be part of the excavation.  Digging up black sand, for example, is an indication that one is getting close to a mummy (pg. 33).  He describes the overpowering smells one experiences when uncovering a mummy that has been under the sand for thousands of years and what it is like to be brushing away and then to suddenly be greeted by the stare of an obsidian eye (pg. 53).  He describes a mummy being prepared for transport and his own experience with the curse of the mummies forcing him to send the father of two child mummies to the museum to reunite the family (chapter 6).<br />Besides the golden mummies, other  amazing discoveries in Bahariya are detailed in this book including an ancient wine factory (the first of its kind to be discovered), temples to the God of Bes and Hercules, and the only temple honoring Alexander the Great known to exist.  Hawass describes the history of Bahariya as well as daily life as it exists today.  Then, of course, there are the hundreds of breathtaking color photographs of the unique mummies, temples, and artifacts found at the sites. Because the sites described in this book are still under excavation, the defnitive book on the Valley of the Golden Mummies is yetto come and, if the author is correct, will take fifty years to complete.  Still, the book offers interesting info on the sites up to this point in time although some of the copious details of mummies and artifacts gets tedious, especially in the last chapters.  The book is 223 pages and includes an index, bibliography, and chronology of Egyptian rulers.	2004-01-07
US	51752008	R304DZ2O5PHDVS	1932270108	799486490	Sixteen Minutes from Home: The Columbia Space Shuttle Tragedy	Books	3	11	11	N	Y	A Human &amp; Patriotic Account of the Columbia Tragedy	Sixteen Minutes from Home is a tribute to the crew members who lost their lives in the Columbia disaster and a sympathetic look at how the tragedy affected the families of the crew and the American public.  It includes a brief history of NASA and the tragedies of the past (i.e. Challenger). For those who already know the basic information regarding the main events in America's program, there is nothing new in this book.<br />It begins with a description of the disaster and the media &amp; public reaction.  One interesting note is that, after the tragedy, Saddam Hussein said it was &quot;God's way of punishing the United States for its aggressive action&quot; (pg. 35).  Less than a year later, he got his comeuppance.  The authors describe the good and  bad of public reaction (putting flowers on memorials to putting fallen debris on online auctions) and includes petty inaccuracies of the press that really have no business in the book (some t.v. anchor once called Buzz Aldrin &quot;Buzz Armstrong,&quot; so what?).  Following this chapter, the authors look at the cause of the accident (chapter 2), include brief bios of each of the Columbia STS-107 crew members (chapter 3), and a day-by-day account of the experiments conducted on the shuttle (chapter 4).<br />The final chapters of the book are a history of American space exploration and a look at the accidents and near-misses of Apollo 1, Apollo 13, Challenger, John Glenn in Friendship 7, Neil Armstrong in Gemini 8, and Soyuz 1 in the Soviet Union.  The most valuable part of the book was the authors' excellent description of the heat absorbent tiles, the best I have read on the subject (pp. 143-46).  It ends with a patriotic plea for Americans to continue their historical need to explore by moving forward to greater ventures (i.e. Mars).<br />The book is very sympathetic and patriotic and often does not give rational consideration to the topic. It is a Frederick Jackson Turner look at space as the new frontier that we, as Americans, have an insatiable, yet honorable, need to explore. Yes, but there are other things to consider besides our &quot;go west, young man&quot; roots. The book includes such lines as &quot;America's tradition of exploration goes all the way back to its first inhabitants, who roamed the prairies in search for food and discovering new hunting lands&quot; (pg. 210). I guess such traits are unique to Americans.  There is nothing wrong with including optimistic, patriotic remarks in a book such as this; however, such gushing Americanism cause this book to wobble the fine line between a touching tribute to exploitation. Maybe I'm seeing something that isn't there but the book is reasonably priced so, if you are interested in it, give it a try and judge for yourself. The book is 235 pages with a list of NASA-related websites, a space program timeline, the names on the wall of remembrance, and a section of photos of all the crew members, the shuttle, and aftermath.as Americans, have an insatiable, yet honorable, need to explore. Yes, but there are other things to consider besides our &quot;go west, young man&quot; roots. The book includes such lines as &quot;America's tradition of exploration goes all the way back to its first inhabitants, who roamed the prairies in search for food and discovering new hunting lands&quot; (pg. 210). I guess such traits are unique to Americans.  There is nothing wrong with including optimistic, patriotic remarks in a book such as this; however, such gushing Americanism cause this book to wobble the fine line between a touching tribute to exploitation. Maybe I'm seeing something that isn't there but the book is reasonably priced so, if you are interested in it, give it a try and judge for yourself. The book is 235 pages with a list of NASA-related websites, a space program timeline, the names on the wall of remembrance, and a section of photos of all the crew members, the shuttle, and aftermath.	2003-12-31
US	51752008	RDYMXJUPASS22	0966770935	749168138	Rediscovering Ben Hecht : Selling the Celluloid Serpent	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Unusual &amp; creative if somewhat hokey	Selling the Celluloid Serpent is an unusual book featuring the works of the quirky, witty journalist and film writer, Ben Hecht. Kovan publishes 14 of the 425 Hecht pieces gathered from the Library of Congress.  These stories were written during his stint in Chicago before 1925.  Some of the subjects of these short parodies include &quot;Nettie Walker,&quot; the alleged body double to Mary Pickford; Moon Kwan who advised D.W. Griffith on the Chinese portrayal in Broken Blossoms; former middleweight boxing champion Kid McCoy (&quot;In five years of being knocked out [in films] I've made about ten times the money I made knocking other people out.&quot;); Wallace Reid's over zealous male secretary who answered the many love letters to the silent heartthrob; press agent and Civil War biographer Lewis Lloyd; Mack Sennett and his view of &quot;greatness&quot;; Norma Talmadge's ability to cry in the film Love's Redemption; an unlikely loser in a Charlie Chaplin look-alike contest, &quot;the first&quot; Harrison Ford; and the feminist/anarchist views of Olga Petrova (&quot;There will come a time when women will emancipate themselves from this ghastly ruse by which nature converts them into populating machines&quot;).<br />Kovan includes much-needed background information for each of the satires as well as related photographs and ephemera which she explains in captions.  Some of the illustrations are turned at angles and one of the stories is printed on a grid backdrop.  Perhaps the odd format is to represent the irreverent style of Hecht, but such is not made clear.  The use of the grid paper on the cover and behind one of the articles is not explained.  Some of the photos (especially one of Kid McCoy) are of poor quality. The author put a lot of care and creativity into this book; however, readers interested in the silent stars may be disappointed.  Most of the stories have a redundant format: a dialog with some behind-the-scenes person's sob story, a mildly amusing ending, and Lloyd Lewis crying at the end.  Hecht's parodies are also, no doubt, tongue-in-cheek, so it is difficult to know if one really learns anything about these players through Hecht's writings.	2003-12-26
US	51752008	R1J488JO1JVJLZ	0060014342	177040953	In the Wake of the Plague: The Black Death and the World It Made	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not Quite Up To Its Intriguing Cover Artwork	This book is about, as the title states, &quot;the Black Death and the world it made.&quot; The emphasis is on &quot;the world that it made.&quot; Any reader looking for a book describing the Black Death itself; how a victim suffered, what life was like, ways in which people reacted to try to prevent the plague, etc., will be disappointed by this book.  Such things are discussed here, but very sporadically and not in much depth.  Cantor casts a very large net on the subject, in one chapter going as far back as &quot;Lucy,&quot; earth's oldest known human remains and comparing events to current times, including recent epidemics and bioterrorism.  Cantor tries to make parallels with today.  He paints a world of conspiracy, familial infighting, and endless litigation (&quot;a barrister of 1350 deep frozen and thawed out today would need only a six-month refresher course at a first-rate American law school to practice property or real estate law today&quot; p. 126) that is quite familiar.  <br />Cantor looks at the Black Death in terms of (1) its effect on people and (2) its place in the context of the history of disease.  In one of several case studies, he examines the le Strange family that was erased from the ranks of the gentry class due to the plague-stricken deaths of the male heirs and the opportunism of  their widows.  Other case studies, however, are not so simple.  Cantor looks at Oxford scholar and clergyman Thomas Bradwardine, who died of the plague soon after he became archbishop.  Cantor wonders if Bradwardine could have changed the course of science were it not for his sudden death.  The author, however, admits that, due to a lack of medical knowledge and innovation, &quot;the powerful and learned Oxford intellects had nothing to put forward to explain the Black Death&quot; (p.119).  Plus, Bradwardine was 59 at the time (elderly by Medieval standards).<br />Many ideas Cantor puts forth are not elaborated upon enough.  For example, he does not explain, tomy satisfaction, how the Black Death created &quot;class polarization, capital accumulation, [and] social mobility in the yeoman class&quot; (p. 91).  He gives scant attention to the theory that the Black Death led to the Renaissance.  He also skips around a lot, discussing everything from the inner workings of the flea (p. 18), the textile industry (p. 22), wine (p. 33), crossbows (p. 35), the definition of &quot;tyrant,&quot; as well as some trivia.  Such information is interesting, of course, but a little distracting when such tidbits do not help the reader understand the points the author is trying to make.<br />On the plus side, the book moves very quickly.  At 220 pages, it has fairly large text and is spaced out.  It includes an excellent chapter on the persecution of the Jews, which gives the reader the most clear picture of the Black Death's effect on the world.  It has a section of interesting photos and illustrations.  Unfortunately, most of these illustrations are not elucidated in the text (i.e. the drawing of a plague-sufferer having his welts &quot;lanced&quot;).  What may be the most useful section of the book is the bibliography where Cantor comments on other works on the Black Death.  Norman Cantor is a retired professor of history who has written numerous books on the Middle Ages, so I was disappointed that I did not come away with more from this book.	2003-12-24
US	51752008	RHV5N1DZJSVLR	0385238770	519831935	Challenger : A Major Malfunction : A True Story of Politics, Greed, and the Wrong Stuff	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Choosing &quot;romantic myth over a practical space policy.&quot;	Malcolm McConnell, a renown author and reporter at Cape Canaveral to cover the Teacher-in-Space launch, writes a revealing account of the events that led to the Challenger tragedy as well as the launch itself.  Here are some of the things covered in this book:<BR>--The controversy over the issuing of contracts to Rockwell and Thiokol in the 1970s.<BR>--How the campaigns of Nixon and Reagan influenced events that led to the tragedy, in the latter case, why the &quot;Teacher-in-Space&quot; program was so important for political image.<BR>--How employees, especially at the Marshall Space Center, were treated.<BR>--Concerns of pilot Mike Smith days before his final flight.<BR>--Ways in which Reagan's Sate of the Union address, the Soviet's plan to examine Halley's Comet, and Congressman Bill Nelson's insistence on being on Columbia for the 61-C mission may have contributed to the event.<BR>--Step-by-step details on the procedures and concerns leading to the ill-fated launch.  It also covers the daily life of the crew from their big press conference to the end.<br />Published in 1988, the book does not go too much into the aftermath of the tragedy, although it does include an epilogue that tells the fate of some of the execs connected to the launch. There are sporadic references to the Rogers Commission's findings.  It is written in the clear, precise in-the-moment style of an accomplished journalist who knows his subject inside in out.  There are also two sets of photos.	2003-12-19
US	51752008	R1BI2NCZO6M6I8	0061315508	862110679	Black Death	Books	5	28	29	N	N	"And in the dust be equal made"	Ziegler's The Black Death was the only book I could find after a television documentary piqued my interest in the subject.  I was worried the book would be too scholarly but, to my surprise, I found the writing style very pleasant and engaging. It is one of the best books I have read all year.<br />Originally published in 1969, Ziegler gathered sources on the plague from the period to more recent examinations to try to create the most accurate picture possible of what it was like in Medieval Europe during 1348-1350 and the effects the Black Death had on Europe.  Ziegler admits in his preface that he did not conduct any original research but he does critique the works of others, especially Thorold Rogers' theory that the Black Plague caused the Peasant's Revolt of 1381 (p. 188).  He includes a chapter each on Italy, France, and Germany; the latter of which saw the emergence of the Flagellant movement and persecution of the Jews based on suspicions similar to those used in Nazi Germany.  England is covered the most with 5 chapters and a 6th on Wales, Ireland, and Scotland.  Ziegler demonstrates the fear of the people right from the beginning when the plague entered Europe through Sicily.  The patriarch of Catania wished to bring relics to nearby, plague-ridden Messina only to have the Catanians protest against the idea.  In compromise, the patriarch dipped the relics in water and brought the water to the suffering neighbors (p. 28).<br />Ziegler describes what Medieval life was like in sometimes witty style: \\"The medieval house might have been built to specifications approved by a rodent council\\" (p. 199).  Period ideas on how to prevent infection are also interesting, including a elixir made of gold and quicksilver: \\"At least the high price of gold ensured that not many invalids could afford to be poisoned by such medicine\\" (p. 55).  The chapter on the fictitious villages I also found to be very well-done and a nice change of pace from the somewhat statistically-driven prose. <br />Two things I wish were in this book are a better map and more information on what the plague sufferer went through besides the obvious symptoms like boils.  A map is included but it is inadequate as it does not list all (or even a small percentage of) the villages mentioned.  Still, the book is well-written AND scholarly.  Ziegler is very careful to qualify statements, avoid generalizations, and fairly critique all statistics given about the plague.  My copy also has numerous illustrations and a color section on period plague-related art.  It is made very evident the horror of the Black Death through such statements as: \\"Peterborough, another of those low-lying areas which were so remarkably well treated by the plague, [had a mortality] level notably below the average at a mere 27%\\" (p. 138).	2003-12-17
US	51752008	R1YKQUFWZO1YI5	0786013621	506845535	The Night Stalker: The Life and Crimes of Richard Ramirez	Books	5	33	35	N	N	"I am beyond your experience. I am beyond good & evil" R. R.	With the exception of the Night Stalker himself, Philip Carlo is the foremost expert on Richard Ramirez and the Night Stalker case.  Every television documentary I have seen on Ramirez's murderous rampage in southern California in 1985 includes interviews with Carlo and information coming directly from this book.  Carlo provides one of the most thorough true crime works I have read.  He has accumulated information from hundreds of interviews with the key people in Ramirez's life and the Night Stalker case, including hours with the Night Stalker, himself.  Every thing is covered here: the gory details of the numerous rapes and murders, the exciting capture of Ramirez by an angry mob, the long and often infuriating trial, and Ramirez's Death Row wedding with an entertainment magazine editor.  What I found to be the most interesting part of the book was the section on the Ramirez family, particularly young Richard's relationship with his cousin Mike.  <br />Mike was a decorated Green Beret who returned to the U.S. a mental and emotional volcano.  He taught young Richard guerrilla combat techniques which ironically came in handy when Richard set out for a \\"career\\" in burglary that later escalated to much worse crimes.  Mike also showed Richard photographs of Vietnamese women sexually tortured and killed.  A crime Richard witnessed Mike committing while a visitor in his cousin's home was a turning point in Ramirez's life.  <br />The bizarre groupies who attended Ramirez's sometimes farcical trial is very eye-opening.  I was shocked at the lengths to which some of these women went to visit Ramirez even after he was convicted for some of the most heinous crimes imaginable.  That one of these groupies was a juror is even more remarkable (even Madonna wanted to meet him).  This book is the best source on one of the most infamous serial killer cases of the century and, by true crime standards, well written. An index would have been a welcomed addition, but the book is dividedin the following \\"books\\": \\"The Hunted and the Hunters,\\" \\"Richie,\\" \\"Capture,\\" \\"The Trial,\\" and \\"Epilogue.\\"	2003-12-06
US	51752008	RFPIDBIUOHW3E	023106490X	202096291	Challenger: The Final Voyage	Books	4	8	8	N	N	"reality must take prec. over PR for nature can't be fooled"	Challenger The Final Voyage by Richard Lewis is a must-read for anyone interested in the Challenger tragedy of January 1986.  Upon writing this work, Lewis was a long-time writer and editor of scientific publications and had written several books on space exploration including \\"The Voyages of Columbia\\" in 1984. Lewis uses this expertise to write a very clear explanation on what happened to Challenger and the faulty decision making process that allowed the tragic event to take place.  While the book is very technical, it is written in a way that even a reader such as myself who has no engineering background can follow along and understand.  Many illustrations and photos are provided to further clarify very complex matters.  <br />The book starts with an eerie dialogue that went on between the Challenger crew and Houston right to the moment of the explosion.  What follows is a look at what went wrong and, most importantly, what was known to be a weakness to the rocket booster structure years before the ill-fated launch.  The most frustrating part of the Challenger story is that the cause of the shuttle's demise was not something out of the blue that puzzled the experts, but a concern that was voiced for years before and right up to the launch.   That this tragedy could have easily been avoided is the saddest fact of all. <br />Lewis' thorough account of the investigation following the accident demonstrates a fundamental debility in communication at NASA that, unfortunately, proved fatal again in the Columbia disaster.  Lewis' book includes early concerns from Rockwell International (the orbiter's prime contractor) that an icicle may have damaged Challenger's heat shield causing the break-up and another voiced concern about insulation from the external tank hitting the heat absorbent tiles (pp. 30 & 134).  The latter caused the Columbia tragedy 17 years later.  One remarkable point that came out in an appendix to the Presidential Commission's report on the accident isthe astronomical optimism gap between engineers and managers.  Concerning the space shuttle program, engineers saw the probability for loss to be 1 in 100, for the managers this probability was 1 in 100,000 (pp. 212 & 215).   I was in the sixth grade when the Challenger tragedy occurred.  I remember my teacher explaining what had happened on the overhead projector.  I had no idea what he was talking about.  Perhaps he was planning on showing the lessons of Christa McAuliffe (who was to be the first teacher in space) to the class.  Due to the dismissal of so many warning signs, McAuliffe was robbed of this experience (and, most horribly, her life) and millions of students were robbed of the chance to learn about space through her eyes.  The Challenger tragedy touched the lives of people far beyond those directly involved and the family members.  It can never be forgotten.	2003-12-06
US	51752008	R1SWXILL7OKOKX	0399506675	48396709	A Pictorial History of the Silent Screen	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Invaluable Photo Reference Guide (Happy Hunting!)	I was thoroughly impressed with this book the moment I opened it. It has literally thousands of b&w photos filling its 324 pages.  The photos are of various sizes and include the players and films in chronological order from \\"the early years\\" of the 1890s through 1929.  From the widely known to the obscure, they are all here!  What's more, the names of the films and actors are provided for nearly all the photos which has aided me in identifying a few miscellaneous stills I have.  I run a tribute website for Henry B. Walthall and being able to see one photo in this book of a \\"lost\\" or \\"buried\\" film I will never get a chance to see means so much.  I am sure that any silent film buff will find some prized rare photos in this book to treasure. Book includes index list of actors and films for easy reference. (This review is based on the 1982 printing edited by Daniel Blum alone, original copyright 1953).	2003-11-19
US	51752008	R3Q43T1A6F0BPT	0340654015	165763942	So Far, So Good	Books	3	10	10	N	Y	A Rapid Trip Through a Long and Stellar Career	&quot;So Far, So Good&quot; is a very fast-moving autobiography by the actor most known in the United States for his portrayal of Jim Hacker in the excellent British comedy series Yes, Minister and Yes, Prime Minister and of Jerry Leadbetter in The Good Life (Good Neighbors).  From his peripatetic childhood, his Quaker roots, and countless plays, television series (Robin Hood, The Good Life, etc.), and diplomatic trips,  Eddington takes the reader on a rapid journey through his eventful life with plenty of wit and good humor.  His terrible skin cancer which took his life soon after this book was published is not dwelled upon.  Placed in the background, the progression of the disease is brought up periodically between another string of theatre or television work.  Unlike the autobiography of Yes, minister co-star Nigel Hawthorne (&quot;Straight Face,&quot; which I highly recommend), Eddington is very upbeat in this work and usually focuses on his positive experiences.  Even an attempt on his life is written with a touch of humor: &quot;'Now if this were Belfast,' I thought, 'I would have said that that was a bomb.  Oh my God, it is Belfast!'&quot; and &quot;I had been joking for years that the ultimate accolade for the success of Yes, Prime Minister would be for someone to attempt my assassination&quot; (219).  Unlike Hawthorne's work, this book does not go into much depth and seems to just scratch the surface; a humorous moment here, a witty quote there, and off to the next project.     <br />Anyone hoping this work will be a motivational testament to his great courage may be disappointed.  It is not that Eddington does not come off as courageous, it is that he does not write about the pain he must have gone through working despite declining health.  From this book, one gets the feeling that his illness never overshadowed the two priorities in his life: work and family.  I highly recommend the DVD set for Yes, Prime Minister which offers a bio of Eddington.	2003-11-05
US	51752008	R3LS1TMUQ4G8LQ	0340769424	293498174	Straight Face	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	"Sir Humphrey's" Story	Straight Face is a touching, honest, sometimes even self-effacing autobiography from one of Britain's most accomplished actors who is probably best known in the United States for is work as \\"Sir Humphrey\\" in Yes, Minister and, later, as the lead in The Madness of King George. Written during illness, Sir Nigel Hawthorne demonstrates a remarkable memory for detail, describing his childhood in South Africa, his unwavering perseverance to make it in theater, and his long search to find a life companion.   The first 2/3 of the book offer the most depth.  His schooling at Christian Brothers' is described in painful detail: \\"Should a boy be experiencing 'cuts' when the clock struck, the punishment would cease for the duration of the prayer, and as the last strokes of the clock faded and nail-bitten fingers flicked across blazers in the sign of the Cross, the strokes of the strap would resume\\" (37).  His return to South Africa during which he was confronted with his \\"humanitarian\\" stance on apartheid (\\"I was at heart a wishy-washy liberal who made no stand on their behalf\\" ) is an interesting chapter (142).  Those who inspired him receive an important place in this book from his parents and artistic grandmother to professional influences like Joan Littlewood.  He was a very loyal man, even refusing to leave a bad relationship to join the man who would be his partner for life until he received permission from his ex.<br />Unfortunately, Hawthorne does not offer the same thorough coverage of his work on Yes, Minister.  He writes of it with an almost \\"oh, by the way...\\" attitude.   The latter part of the book seems to have been written with more haste.  Perhaps declining health is to blame.  The last chapter was completed days before his death.  Unfortunately, the book ends on a rather sour note with his last theater work as the lead in King Lear.  His poor relationship with the Royal Shakespeare Company and the bad reviews seems to have left him with a bad taste.  There are loose ends in this book (no description of receiving his knighthood, for instance) and one wonders if he was planning on writing another chapter or epilogue to put the book in better perspective.  Due to his sudden death, longtime partner Trevor Bentham provides a very touching epilogue: \\"I hope there is an afterlife so he will have been aware of the shock caused by his death and the massive love that came (328).\\" The book includes two inserts of b&w photos.  I also recommend the DVD set for Yes, Minister.  It includes a bio on Hawthorne that has Sir Nigel taking the viewer to different places mentioned in his book, including the set of King Lear and to South Africa where he visits family maid Lena Goliath.	2003-10-16
US	51752008	R2K5X91IUQN6PH	0135666465	339614549	The Mayerling murder	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Convincing Rebuttal to the Suicide Theory	In this study, Victor Wolfson refutes commonly held beliefs about the death of the Austrian Crown Prince Rudolf.  According to Wolfson, the legend of Mayerling reduced Rudolf to a romantic fatalist when, in fact, the Crown Prince was a serious political figure whose liberal ideas put him at odds with the Imperial government, including his father, Emperor Franz Josef.  Wolfson looks at Rudolf's character and motives through the Crown Prince's own writings (those that were not destroyed by the Empire, of course), and the letters of those close to Rudolf.  Wolfson also casts doubt on the &quot;evidence&quot; used to support Rudolf's alleged suicidal tendencies: forensic reports (again, those that were not destroyed) of the bodies, the skull the Crown Prince kept on his desk, his alleged martial problems, and his love affair with the vacuous and trite teenager Mary Vetsera (who shared his &quot;fate&quot;, whichever way it was achieved).  Wolfson also uses a revealing 1916 book written by Rudolf's private secretary that has been largely ignored by historians.  By considering the context of the times, especially the rivalry between the aggressive Prussia and the antiquated Austrian empire, Wolfson finds political intrigue more of a cause for the Crown Prince's demise than was the tragic love tale of Vetsera.  Much to the chagrin of Austrian ruling class, Rudolf hated his Prussian brothers and looked to France as the nation to admire.  The title of the book immediately reveals what the author thinks of the events at Mayerling.<br />At times, the author is a bit over sympathetic about his subject: &quot;Rudolf's struggle and suffering, his vision of a true democratic society illuminates once again the vast wonder of a human spirit, resolute and free&quot; (172).  It is difficult to say how important Rudolf's death was to history.  He was first in line to the throne held by an emperor who would live to the middle of the First World War.  Of course, it was the assassinationof Rudolf's successor Franz Ferdinand which sparked the explosion of 1914.   No matter how important Rudolf's death was, this short book is an excellent examination and critique of the history of the Mayerling deaths.	2003-09-20
US	51752008	R33P2DRWS7QDRK	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Whether You're a Liberal or Conservative, This Guy is Funny!	No matter what one's political affiliation may be, Al Franken provides witty and hilarious observations in his books and this one is no exception.  I borrowed \\"Rush Limbaugh is a Big Fat Idiot and Other Observations\\" from my cousin about seven years ago. Although I was a Limbaugh fan and a Republican at the time, I was curious as to what was in the book since I was hearing mostly one side of issues. I was rolling.  I still remember some of the funny pieces in the book that brought tears to my eyes.  I am no longer political, but cannot resist checking out this new book.  Liberals, of course, will relish in it but conservatives should take a look at it also because Franken is not just a comedian.  He researches his observations and puts great thought in his ideas.  Conservatives also need to be able to laugh at themselves.  I saw Franken and Bill O'Reilly of the O'Reilly Factor on a panel discussion a few weeks back and O'Reilly kept throwing angry insults at Franken after Franken clearly caught O'Reilly giving false information about a program O'Reilly was involved in winning a Peabody award (one of the \\"lies\\" found in this book).  O'Reilly did not come off well.  The \\"liars\\" discovered in this book should lighten up and admit they made a mistake if they are in the wrong.  No one is perfect.  It seems that the attacks waged on Franken's books are not on the validity of the information but on the presentation (i.e. the less than tactful titles of his books).  But, as is well-known, one should not judge a book by its cover, and Franken's works are insightful and thought-provoking as well as hilarious!	2003-09-02
US	51752008	R35I0H9SKYF9FV	0060530618	553522864	Simpsons Comics Madness (Simpsons Comic Compilations)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	"Yeah!  Another Look at the Simpsons' Future!"	Seeing the cool cover artwork for this comic book (the Simpsons in straight jackets) I had high expectations for this book.  At first, I thought I was going to be completely disappointed.  The first comics are not very funny and almost as silly as the \\"Big Book of Bart\\" books.  The first comic, \\"Journey to the Cellar of the Kwik-E-Mart\\" is annoying.  It starts with a strange photo featuring such things as Lisa wearing a Squishzilla cup and a guy in a chicken outfit tied to the hood of a car and then takes the reader back in certain increments of time to explain the ending.  I kept forgetting what the comic was about while reading it.  The ending to \\"Tic Tac D'oh\\" is farfetched even by Simpsons' standards.  In \\"The Prime of Miss Lisa Simpson,\\" Bart has the teachers deported and the top students have to take over their classes (this one has some pretty funny moments).  In \\"Hamburger's Little Helper,\\" the Simpson dog gains stardom after biting Krusty the Klown in the butt.  Sideshow Bob is released from prison only to start a crime school in \\"Angels with Yellow Faces.\\"  The true gem, however, is \\"The Rise and Fall of Bartholomew J. Simpson.\\"  If you enjoyed the episode \\"Lisa's Wedding\\" where Lisa gets a glimpse of her future, this comic is for you.  Lisa visits Bart in the hospital and hears him utter two words.  She then researches the past to find out what they mean and why an anonymous person donated a digestive tract to her ailing brother.  This comic is hilarious and you will never guess who Maggie ended up marrying!!  Another fun addition is John's (the gay guy in \\"Homer's Phobia\\") Cockamamies Collectible catalog which includes references to many past Simpsons episodes.  The shorts feature Bartman, Poochie, and Mr. Sparkle (the latter being as odd as the character).  The look at the Simpsons' future makes this comic book worthwhile.	2003-08-07
US	51752008	R3G97SFA8LWIRV	0060516305	161484431	The Ultimate Simpsons in a Big Ol' Box: A Complete Guide to Our Favorite Family Seasons 1-12	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Ultimate Simpsons Reference!	These guides are so thorough in covering each episode of the Simpsons, any fan will want to buy them all so he/she may as well get them all at once in this fun box set.  These books list each episode in every season from the shorts aired on the Tracy Ullman show through season 12.  For every episode there is a brief description, the date it originally aired, list of writers/guest voices, tons of quotes, interesting tidbits and things to look for, selected dialog, screen shots, and even the message on Bart's chalkboard in the introduction.  In addition to the information on each episode, the books include short features on almost every character (even those that appeared briefly in one episode), Itchy and Scratchy shorts, a list of when Homer says \\"D'oh!\\" or \\"Mmmm...,\\" a list of the \\"couch gags\\" during the theme song, you name it.  These are the ultimate guides to the Simpsons that every fan will refer to regularly.  They also include a handy index to help when one is trying to find that one special episode he/she craves.  Even if you already have one of these books, this is an excellent set to own  and it's a good idea to have a spare book because you will no doubt wear out at least one!	2003-07-27
US	51752008	R103FYQPP4KRUM	0060555904	299682391	Big Bad Book of Bart Simpson (Simpsons Comic Compilations)	Books	2	5	8	N	N	"Bad" is Right	Like the first \\"Big Book of Bart,\\" this \\"bad\\" book is made up of many shorter comics; some as short as 4 pages. Also like the first book, these comics are a lot more childish than the other Simpsons Comics books.  Many of the punch lines are more silly than funny.  Highlights include Bart and Milhouse dressing up like Sonny and Cher to escape truant patrolman Leopold in \\"Bart Simpson's Day Off,\\" and the comic \\"See You Later, Alligator\\" which has the Comic Book Guy offering $25 shopping sprees for the best science fair projects (this comic actually has a good ending).  This book also includes shorts featuring a day in the life of Ralph Wiggum and baby Kang and Kodos.  To sum it up, the funniest moment of this book is the look on Smithers' face in \\"See You Later, Alligator\\" when Mr. Burns demands him to \\"open that manhole for me.\\"	2003-07-15
US	51752008	R10SFXQN99R4RU	1582790310	762726224	Adolf Hitler-A Chilling Tale of Propaganda	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Fascinating!	I've had this same book for many years only it was simply entitled \\"Adolf Hitler.\\"  I thought it was no longer in print until I finally found it here on Amazon.  This is one of the most fascinating books I've read.  It is a reproduction of the 1936 cigarette album many Germans had on their coffee tables during Hitler's years of victory.  I have one of the original cigarette cards pictured in this book, and it is an excellent reproduction in detail and size.  The book contains tons of photos (some in color) celebrating Hitler and the advancement of the German nation after he came to power.  He is shown with children, giving speeches, relaxing (one photo has him peeling an apple), visiting wounded soldiers, at rallies, inspecting a Mercedes Benz racing car, visiting a factory, etc.  Chapters celebrating different aspects of Hitler's successes and interests are provided by such important party members as Propaganda Minister Josef Goebbels (he penned the preface and four of the 13 chapters, which may be the reason he is listed as the author), Architect Albert Speer (who, of course, would become disillusioned with Hitler during the war), Hitler Youth leader Baldur von Schirach, Four-Year Plan head Fritz Todt, etc.  There is no historical commentary, no afterward added from our benefit of hindsight, and no qualifications expect for the line \\"Lies told to the people\\" on the back.  There is only the raw propaganda Germans were subjected to when the Nazis controlled the press and most of their thoughts and lives.  One eerie piece is a memorial written by Rudolf Hess for SS Brigadefurhrer Julius Schreck who died in 1936.  Schreck looks like a bloated Hitler with the characteristic mustache (decoy?).  Of course, the whole book is eerie knowing where the happy people in these photos were headed.  I am glad this book was preserved, translated into English, and put back into print so future generations can learn what powerful and all-encompassing propaganda can do to a nation.	2003-06-27
US	51752008	R3NA0RUL4TTCN	0912333022	156013254	The Are You Being Served? Stories: 'Camping In' and Other Fiascoes	Books	2	14	15	N	N	"Weak as Water"	Besides an eleven-page introduction (\\"AYBS? Then and Now\\") and two pages on \\"The Birth of AYBS?,\\" this book only contains scripts in story form from seven early episodes of the long-running Brit comedy.  The stories include: \\"Camping In,\\" \\"Up Captain Peacock,\\" \\"Wedding Bells,\\" \\"His and Hers,\\" \\"Coffee Break,\\" \\"The Hand of Fate,\\" and \\"The Clock.\\"  There is also two sets of full color photos from the episodes.  Some of the screen shots are not even from the episodes in this book as a couple of the photos have Mr. Goldberg and Mr. Harman whereas the stories have Mr. Grainger and Mr. Mash.  There is nothing new or exciting for the fan who already has a few books about the show.  If you want to curl up and read these episodes as stories, this is the book for you.  I, however, would rather pop in the video.	2003-06-26
US	51752008	R1W5Q5OBL8QG2Q	0300059434	914268956	The Fabrication of Louis XIV	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Accessible Study on Royal Image-Making	I read this book in grad school, and it was one of the most enjoyable and accessible books I read.  It is not a biography of Louis XIV but an extensive study on the image-making of the king.  The use of the negative-sounding word &quot;Fabrication&quot; in the title makes the cover look very intriguing as it may imply to some that Burke has uncovered much deceit surrounding Louis' image.  Actually, Burke uses this term to mean the process and constant renewal of the representation of Louis XIV (10-11).  Burke includes chapters on the following subjects: the types of persuasion used (medals, festivals, allegories, etc.), a brief background on Louis' &quot;sunrise&quot;, the organization of Louis' image-making system (academies, etc.), the royal image from the time of &quot;personal rule,&quot; image-making through victories,  reconstruction through peacetime, Louis' &quot;sunset,&quot; differences between the ideal and the real, antagonistic images (loyal subjects making gentle fun or giving hopeful advise and actual enemies of the king), the ways in which Louis' image was perceived including the &quot;targets&quot; of Louis' image-makers, and a comparison with rulers before, during, and after his reign.  Strangely enough, the Third Reich is not mentioned in the latter chapter which would be a glaring omission to me had it not left the door open for me to write a term paper making such a comparison.<br />Burke presents a very thorough study examining such things as the changes in medal inscriptions through the years of Louis' rule to a look at what was meant by &quot;public&quot; during this time (pp. 131 and 152).  The many photographs makes for a very interesting and enjoyable book.  There is also appendixes on the numbers of medals and portraits created during the different decades of Louis' reign.  It is a case study of image-making which, if taken as that, is an excellent, complete study.  Do not expect a complicated thesis from this work.  Burke, for example, does not pursue very strongly the idea of &quot;charisma&quot; (introduced on page 11)and how much &quot;charisma&quot; is tied to personality and &quot;fabrication.&quot;  One petty complaint is Burke's tendency to throw in French words and phrases.  Most often it does not detract from an understanding of the study but, in certain cases, it can be very frustrating.  Two of the worst examples are when Burke is describing how the king was surrounded by the gentlemen of his chamber &quot;even when he was...&quot; [the rest being in French] (91) and when Burke mentions a man who found himself in court for remarking &quot;in brutal simplicity, that...&quot; [the rest being in French] (167).  But I won't knock off a star because I do not know Francaise.does not pursue very strongly the idea of &quot;charisma&quot; (introduced on page 11)and how much &quot;charisma&quot; is tied to personality and &quot;fabrication.&quot;  One petty complaint is Burke's tendency to throw in French words and phrases.  Most often it does not detract from an understanding of the study but, in certain cases, it can be very frustrating.  Two of the worst examples are when Burke is describing how the king was surrounded by the gentlemen of his chamber &quot;even when he was...&quot; [the rest being in French] (91) and when Burke mentions a man who found himself in court for remarking &quot;in brutal simplicity, that...&quot; [the rest being in French] (167).  But I won't knock off a star because I do not know Francaise.	2003-06-21
US	51752008	R1QCVJRM37M0VE	0912333049	255776173	Are You Being Served?: The Inside Story of Britain's Funniest--And Public Television's Favorite--Comedy Series	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Nice Reference Guide to the Over-the-Top British Comedy	Fans of this long-running series and mainstay on American public television will appreciate this excellent reference guide to the actors and episodes.  The book is 212 pages and is full of color and black and white photos.  All the leading actors are featured in mini bios (there is 8 pages of text along with several pages of photos on John Inman, alone) as well as short bios on supporting actors such as Arthur English (Mr. Harman).  Info on the chief writers Jeremy Lloyd and David Croft, a brief history of the series, behind-the scenes look at the taping of the shows, AYBS trivia, and a glossary of &quot;Briticisms&quot; are also included.  The most valuable section of this book, however, is the lists with plot details on every episode of the ten-season series. The information on each episode includes a list of the extras, the date it first aired, trivia (in most cases), plot description and rating on a one to four-star scale.  I am not sure how the ratings were ascertained, as they often differ from how I judge the shows, but it is fun to watch an episode and then check the guide to see what they thought of the show.  Keep this book handy whenever you enter the world of Grace Brothers.	2003-06-19
US	51752008	R33QTK22ZV8IPM	0385413033	53993797	Voices from the Bunker: Hitler's Personal Staff Tells the Story of the Fuhrer's Last Days	Books	5	17	17	N	N	"Banality of Evil" Personified	I've read Voices from the Bunker three times and will no doubt read it again.  It is one of the most fascinating books I have read about Hitler.  The book is made up of first hand accounts by three members of Hitler's inner circle: secretary Traudl Junge, aides-de-camp Otto Guensche, and pilot Hans Baur.  About 95% of the account comes from Junge who was hired as one of Hitler's private secretaries in January 1943 (just in time for the tenth anniversary of Hitler's coming to power and less than two and one half years before the end of the Nazi regime).  During much of this time, Junge's duties were primarily social.  She accompanied Hitler for meals and relaxation almost daily.  Her viewpoint is, admittedly, from an isolated world with one set of beliefs and a \\"puppet master\\" who controlled her day-to-day life and thoughts.  She describes Hitler's demeanor and routine at the Wolf's Lair (Hitler's headquarters in East Prussia), at the Berghof (his mountain retreat), and finally in the bunker as Berlin was being surrounded.  She offers a unique perspective on many aspects of the dictator's life: his dietary habits, his outlook on the war, his after-dinner small talk with such intimates as Eva Braun, etc.  Junge also describes how Hitler was affected by the July 1944 bomb plot and how he handled himself as he neared his suicide.  Finally, Junge, Guensche, and Baur each offer their experiences trying to escape war-torn Berlin.  Many top Nazis are included in Junge's account: Goebbels, Himmler, Albert Speer, etc. Hitler comes out looking very human in this book as Junge's perspective is from one in an isolated world where Hitler was the charming host who played with his dog and cared about his loyal friends and employees.  As the authors state in the introduction: \\"It is generally agreed today that the most shattering feature of those who commit genocide is not that they are monsters, but that they are just like many other people.\\"  My only complaint is that the book leaves me wanting more.  It is only 166 pages with many short chapters and two sections of black and white photos.  Junge died fairly recently at the age of 81 and I've read that she completed a book The Final Hour before her death.  I have yet to find this book but, if it is an expanded version of Voices in the Bunker, it will be excellent.	2003-06-06
US	51752008	R3CCN2VNGY3U5Q	0786411015	594799847	Jethro Tull: A History of the Band, 1968-2001	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Good Reference Guide to a Great Band	This book is the first I've read on Jethro Tull. I found it to be very interesting. It is more of a reference guide than the \\"good curl-up\\" Ian Anderson describes it as in his forward. The chapters are divided by album and subsequent tour, including Anderson's solo projects. I was drawn into the book by Nollen's preface and his brilliant short essay on the overall music of Tull. Nollen was an ordinary Tull fan from Iowa who was elevated to the privileged class of fans who have met and befriended the band members, particularly Dave Pegg. He received the cooperation of Pegg, Glenn Cornick, Doane Perry and the one-legged flautist himself to write this book which really adds to its credibility. It is very scholarly and well-organized. The footnotes reveal that much of this information was garnered from old reviews, the Tull fanzine A New Day, etc., which may result in less new information for the long-time Tull fanatic. I agree with another reviewer who stated that this book reads like a college Masters thesis.<br />What I enjoyed the most from this book are the analyses of some of the lyrics to Tull's songs. I have a greater appreciation for \\"Aqualung\\" after reading this book. I also finally understand what is meant by \\"One white duck on your wall.\\" I wish there was more of these lyric explanations as the descriptions of the sound of the songs (and I know, from writing reviews for Amazon how difficult it is to describe music in words) become rather tedious. I often skimmed over some of these descriptions, particularly concerning some of the later albums I have not heard as such words cannot bring music to life. For the most part, this is a very glowing, often sycophantic account. I love Jethro Tull, they are one of my all-time favorite bands, but some of Nollen's praise is a little much: \\"the band rollicked into one of the most incredible performances ever heard by a rock audience\\" (151), \\"Barrie Barlow...executes some of the most astounding snare drum rolls in the history of rock\\" (147). What is frustrating is Nollen's tendency to start an interesting story and then cut it off abruptly with an unrelated quotation.  Glenn Cornick's statements about being fired are cut off by an Anderson quote about breaking even financially on an American tour (62).  A story about Martin Barre and Dave Pegg having a knife pulled on them when they were trying to retrieve a stolen jacket ends abruptly with a Pegg quote on Barre's passion for leather (217).  The many long quotations, especially towards the end of the book, make for very tedious reading at times. Still, this book is very impressive work and very valuable to the Tull fan.	2003-05-23
US	51752008	R15GWUTF2IJVU8	1559702729	807055761	Hitler: The Missing Years	Books	4	55	59	N	N	Fascinating, At Times Gossipy, Account	I read this book a few years ago and a lot of it came back to me when I watched the T.V. movie on CBS recently.  These \\"missing years\\" (i.e. the early years before Hitler came to power) aren't really \\"missing\\" (there is plenty of information out there on Hitler's ascent to power) but are told from an insider's perspective.  As Hitler biographer John Toland states in the inside jacket of this book, \\"Ernst Hanfstaengl and his family were in my opinion closer to Hitler than any other family during those crucial [early] years.\\" Hanfstaengl met Hitler in 1921 when he was drawn to the ambitious politician during a speech in a Munich beer hall.  He befriended Hitler and became his foreign press secretary only to become disillusioned by Hitler's increasingly fanatic and anti-Semitic rhetoric accompanying and following the release of Mein Kampf.  <br />In the Missing Years, the reader gets insight into the early organization of the NSDAP and the emergence of Hitler's mass appeal.  Hanfstaengl explains the way Hitler could express the thoughts of his audience: \\"Many a time I have seen him face a hall plentifully sprinkled with opponents ready to heckle and interject, and in his search for the first body of support, make a remark about food shortages and domestic difficulties or the sound instinct of his women listeners which would produce the first bravos\\" (68).  As to Hitler's political strategy, Hanfstaengl states, \\"He did not make a revolution to acquire power, but acquired power in order to make a revolution\\" (172).\\"  As to the Jewish question, Hitler, at one point, told Hanfstaengl \\"I need the Jews as hostages\\" (211). <br />Hanfstaengl was close to Hitler, so much so that he received the jealous wrath of the other members of Hitler's inner circle.  Hitler enjoyed listening to Hanfstaengl play the piano, so Hitler's other disciples played the radio full blast when he arrived or, as in the case of Goebbels, play recordings of Wagner or Hitler's own speeches for Hitler to prevent any influence Hanfstaengl might have (192).<br />The most intriguing part of the book is the gossip on Hitler's bizarre behavior around women, including Hanfstaengl's wife.  This seedy information includes Geli Raubal and Hitler's pornographic drawings (163).  Readers may be skeptical over some of the accounts (he admits to hearing some of the accounts third hand) but I, for one, would not be surprised if they were all true.  This book does not have an index, which is a little irritating when one is trying to look up information, but the chapters are fairly short (16 chapters, 308 pages).	2003-05-23
US	51752008	R1URX8CGP1NBFW	0310517613	460817023	The Adventures of Brother Biddle: Misguided Escapades of America's Favorite Cartoon Preacher	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Unique Character, Mildly Amusing	This book is a compilation of comics featuring the cartoon minister Brother Biddle.  The book starts with comics from 1978 and ends with a cartoon made for the book from 1989.  The first part of the book is divided by theme with several comics concerning such subjects as the rapture, fundamentalism, Catholicism v. Protestantism, televangelism, ministerial job security, women in the ministry, church funding, Hell, the media, and racism.  The rest of the book seems to be a hodgepodge of strips and cartoons of various styles including a take-off of The Raven.  The comics are dated at times, Brother Biddle does a rendition of &quot;Beat It&quot; plus there are several cartoons of Jim and Tammy Faye Baker.  The comics are interesting and, at times, very intellectual.  The humor sometimes, however, can be silly.  Catholics and Protestants battle it out in a softball game dubbed &quot;Reformation II&quot;.  On the subject of women in the ministry, First Church regular, old lady Naomi Muffin, demands &quot;more sermons about fashion trends and thinner thighs&quot; and wants the steeple painted pink (give me a break).  Still, it is a nice little book for leisure reading.  It is fun to see how Rob Suggs' artwork changed through the years	2003-05-11
US	51752008	REH1LG3POBBN	0582437563	46961500	Hitler: Profiles in Power	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Excellent study by the best Hitler biographer	Ian Kershaw is the premier historian on Hitler and Nazi Germany and this book from the Profiles in Power series is an excellent study on the roots, success, and ultimate destruction of the \\"Fuehrercult.\\"  Two schools of thought are used by historians to understand the power of Nazism.  \\"Intentionalists\\" see the Nazi regime as the embodiment of Hitler as the totalitarian leader.  \\"Structuralists,\\" however, believe the policies and, ultimately, the crimes of Nazi Germany were stumbled upon by underlings working under a loose framework rather than a deliberate program. As one would expect, Kershaw takes from both these theories to develop his comprehensive profile.<br />Kershaw examines Hitler's worldview of racial struggle, anti-Semitism, and living space for the German empire--how these ideas developed (Hitler's background) and how Hitler used them to create his leadership image.  This Fuehrercult unified a fractional party, helped repress opposition, and created a mass following. Through Hitler's charismatic leadership the German people would be prepared to fight the Nazi fight (inevitably WWII).  Kershaw also looks at the feudal-like power relations inside the Third Reich; a regime of open-ended decrees that left no \\"smoking gun\\" pointing at Hitler for the Final Solution.  Finally, Kershaw examines the destruction of Hitler's power during which the irrational optimism that \\"Providence\\" (i.e. Hitler's will) would prevail was still believed by many (particularly the 'court' of Hitler's bunker).  I recommend this book especially to advanced history students who want an in-depth examination of Hitler's power in a compact 230-page book.  The book includes footnotes, an index, a chapter on further readings, and a chronology of events.	2003-05-09
US	51752008	R2TC118QE19BF3	0671023888	935218192	All She Wanted	Books	3	5	14	N	N	Was This a Hate Crime?	This book was the first I read by Aphrodite Jones.  I remembered the story of Teena Brandon, a teenage girl who posed as the male \\"Brandon\\" and became a victim in a triple homicide.  I saw a television documentary on the subject and saw Aphrodite Jones discussing it on a talk show.  When I found this book, I thought it would be interesting.  For the most part, it was, however, I think Jones could have done a better job writing it.  At times it is confusing because there are so many names (including Brandon's endless parade of girlfriends).  Some of the people Jones includes in the story seem to have very limited impact.  I think Jones should have left out some of these people to make the story less tangled.  Teena Brandon had a short, but very complicated life.  It would be hard to write her story without spinning in circles.  Still, at one point Jones has \\"Brandon\\" telling his girlfriend he is a hermaphrodite, another time he claims he is a man, then he tells the same girlfriend he is going to have a sex change operation...It's difficult to keep track of who knew what when.  <br />The author also tends to jump around a lot.  The organization of the book is: first, a description of the homicides; second, background information on Teena Brandon; third backgrounds of all the main people of the story; fourth, a description of Teena Brandon's rape and investigation; fifth, the investigation of the murders and trials.  Background on Brandon, of course, is very important; however, the backgrounds on some of the other people I thought was a little too detailed.  Some background on these people is vital, however, some of them were covered so thoroughly I thought it diverted the reader from the story at hand.  Readers want to know more about \\"Brandon\\" and not so much about John Lotter's childhood.  I think this 318-page book could be cut down to 250 pages and be even more effective because of the absence of so much clutter.  There is also more spelling errors in this book than I'm used to.  Still, I thought Jones did a good job describing the rape investigation (or lack thereof), the sarcastic and cruel questions Brandon had to answer when giving information about her rape to the investigators, and the trials of Tom Nissan and John Lotter, including the Transexual Menace activist group's attempt to co-opt the event.<br />In the end, it is hard to find sympathy for any of the people involved in the murders.  Most of them do not come off well in this book.  Jones may, of course, be emphasizing the negative parts of all the characters to make for better reading.  Even \\"Brandon\\" is not presented as the innocent victim as I thought.  Her deception regarding her sexual identity, her lies, her stealing, and her choice of company may have had as much to do with her tragic end as her lifestyle. I don't think Brandon's death was a hate crime.  I think it was about two mentally disturbed young men who wanted to get back at someone who deceived them and then (in their idiotic state) chose murder as a way to get out of a rape charge. That is what I came away with after reading this book.	2003-04-22
US	51752008	R30TBPKME8KGE4	0192851845	582041103	Life in the Third Reich	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Interesting Collection of Essays	Life in the Third Reich offers eight essays on various aspects of Nazi culture.  As Richard Bessel notes in his introduction, the Third Reich is not just the story of good versus evil but is a more complex study characterized by contradictions and paradoxes.  Germans who disapproved of the violence of Hitler's SA may also have appreciated the Nazis' efforts to put down crime and restore social order to a nation influx.  Germans who feared the Gestapo agents and the nation's drive toward war also welcomed the Anschluss with Austria and the incorporation of the Sudetenland.  <br />Bessel's essay is entitled \\"Political Violence and the Nazi Seizure of Power.\\" Bessel looks at the violence that helped the Nazi party gain power, which was often seen as legitimate when working as an \\"auxiliary police\\" force, and the violence against Jews, which was seen as excessive and hindered Nazi support.  Still, the old guard allowed Hitler to come the power and Nazi violence at that time had its limits (i.e. there was no terrorist activity).  Gerhard Wilke's \\"Village Life in Nazi Germany\\" looks at Koerle in north Hesse and how Nazism altered social relationships.  A very interesting essay is \\"Youth in the Third Reich\\" by Detlev Peukert.  Peukert describes how the increasingly coercive and drill-minded nature of the Hitler Jugend led to a youth subculture of gangs like the Edelweiss Pirates and movements like Swing jazz.  Ian Kershaw explains the seven bases of the Hitler myth in \\"Hitler and the Germans.\\" \\"Social Outcasts in the Third Reich\\" by Jeremy Noakes includes information on such topics as eugenics and sterilization.  Other essays cover the Nazi state, policies against the Jews, and \\"Good Times, Bad Times: Memories of the Third Reich.\\"<br />This book is an excellent source of topics not often covered in other books.  It is well-researched by some of the best historians of Nazi Germany and includes two sections of b&w photos.	2003-04-17
US	51752008	R18HUWJ0HR4OY2	0252011678	333795560	Ministers of Reform: The Progressives' Achievement in American Civilization, 1889-1920	Books	4	4	6	N	N	The "Spiritual Odyssey" of a Generation	In Ministers of Reform, Robert Crunden traces the backgrounds of many of the leading achievers in the Progressive era. Although the statesmen, social workers, writers, artists, and thinkers were not bound to a common platform and were not members of any single movement, many of them shared common backgrounds and experiences that influenced their political/social ideas.  Such commonalties include a religious heritage and (except in the case of Woodrow Wilson) an Abolitionist heritage.  Abraham Lincoln was seen as a living ideal as did the Republican party until many became disillusioned by it.  Protestantism and education also were important factors.  Progressive leaders Crunden looks at include Samuel Hopkins Adams, Jane Addams, Charles A. Beard, William Jennings Bryan, John R. Commons, John Dewey, Richard Ely, Robert Henri, George Herron, Charles Ives, Robert La Follette, George Herbert Mead, Robert Park, Theodore Roosevelt, Upton Sinclair, John Sloan, Frederick Jackson Turner, Harvey Wiley, Woodrow Wilson, and Frank Llloyd Wright.  The spirit of innovation and moral rectitude of the Progressive generation made its mark throughout American politics, society, and culture.  One important point Cruden makes is that, although many Progressive leaders demonstrated tolerance at home, they often also showed a great deal of intolerance abroad.	2003-04-17
US	51752008	R249EGGYEMBMFB	0671672657	717947796	All His Father's Sins	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Shocking Murder Spree in Gruesome Detail	This chilling 218-page true crime book is fast-paced, well-written, and shocking.  One probably could read it in one sitting.  Although the murdering couple featured in this book lived in Sacramento in the late 1970s and early 1980s (only 45 minutes from where I grew up around the same time), I had never heard of them or their crimes until I found this book.  That is surprising because their crime spree was coldly calculated and incredibly gruesome.  Lt. Ray Biondi, who investigated a fraction of their crimes (they had murdered 10 people in several states), tells their deadly tale mostly from the point of view of accomplice Charlene Williams.  Charlene went along with and assisted her boyfriend/husband's sordid fantasies of kidnap, rape and murder so she could remain her macho man's main girl.  What is scary about this story is how easily Charlene led the young girls to their doom.  Biondi includes information on the investigation (other suspects, evidence, etc.), but not as much as I anticipated. Only ten pages is devoted to the trials. One interesting part of the author's story was how Biondi rushed through the bureaucratic maze of San Quentin to send Gerald Gallego to trial in Nevada before the California Supreme Court issued a stay of release (only to have Gallego claim they were kidnapping HIM).  I do not buy the idea that Gallego's murdering skills were passed down from his father (if that is what the author means by the title).  His father was executed for killing a police officer.  Biondi includes a few quotes from Gallego's father regarding the murder.  Although they probably shared the same misogynist views, Gerald Gallego seemed to develop a style a murder all his own. Gallego's father was on death row before Gerald turned ten and, according to the book, Gerald did not even know of his father's execution until years after the fact. The book includes a middle section of photos and has a brief epilogue updating the story to 1997.	2003-04-10
US	51752008	R1Y754V2EH79UL	0440223334	599216897	Jury	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Fascinating Case Study of the U.S. Justice System	In May 1971, a body was found in an orchard near Yuba City, California-then another, then another. Finally, a total of 25 bodies of male field workers were unearthed. The accused was labor contractor Juan Corona of what was, at the time, the largest mass murder case attributed to one man in United States history. Victor Villasenor interviewed the men and women on the jury not long after the verdict was announced in 1973 (the book was published in 1977). Villasenor tells the Corona case through the words of the jury members in the deliberation room and follows their progress each day as minds change and tempers flare. Many times while reading this book I wondered how these 12 jurors ever agreed to a verdict. There is much repetition in this book. Jurors complained so many times about how defense attorney Richard Hawk did not put on a case that I almost said aloud \\"Get over it already!\\". Repetition is understandable because some jury members had to go over pieces of evidence and strange speculations over and over again. I have never been on a jury. I can only assume this example is atypical considering the magnitude of the case and the peculiar personalities of some of the jurors. Still, I became immersed in this book. I only wish there were photos of those involved in the case so I can picture the scenes in my mind better. In addition, the author includes some of the experiences of the Corona family members as they struggled with a second language, unfamiliar justice system, and a blood-thirsty media. An up-to-date chapter would be a welcomed addition.  Corona was retried in 1982 based on a few of the problems with his defense that was brought up by jury members in this book, but was still found guilty.	2003-04-06
US	51752008	R12TM6RJ7EVLQ7	0500275793	593529748	Mummies, Myth and Magic in Ancient Egypt	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Fascinating, Scholarly Study with Amazing Photos	I looked for a book on mummies after seeing the excellent television documentary hosted by Egyptologist Dr. Bob Brier. I saw this book and was a little skeptical. The title \\"Mummies, Myth, and Magic\\" sounded like a book that may sacrifice scholarship for a more mainstream account to appeal to those wanting to read about mummy curses, etc. I could not resist the fascinating photos in this book, so I bought it despite my reluctance over the title. I soon realized I was wrong to be the least bit skeptical. It is a very scholarly account by an obvious expert in the field. Christine El Mahdy details how mummies were buried during different periods; the mummification techniques; how Egyptians bargained with, communicated with, and regarded their various gods; animal cults, etc. A short section on the \\"curse\\" of the tombs is included at the end and is expertly written: \\"...the dead positively welcomed the living. Their immortality depended on the survival of their name...\\" (174). The author assumes nothing in her analysis and gives a clear, erudite account of every subject examined.  She offers an excellent description of what it was like for a robber or collector like Giovanni Belzoni to enter a tomb.  She also explains what information can be gathered from mummies; from age and health to the duties Egyptians had under certain titles. The illustrations in this book make it a must for the serious Egyptologist to the casual enthusiast. Symbolism and the design of sample tombs are clearly diagrammed. The photos and x-rays of mummies are fascinating. There is a disturbing photo of an unknown mummy that some witnesses to its discovery believe was buried alive that will stick with you long after you put down this book. In addition, a chronology of the different dynasties is included at the beginning of this book which is essential for readers like me who have a very limited background on Egyptian history.  What impressed me most of all was the deep respect the author demonstrated towards this subject:  \\"Few of the living were ever permitted even to gaze for long upon the face of a pharaoh--so perhaps it is presumptuous to demand more of them dead than they gave when alive\\" (91).	2003-03-31
US	51752008	R2L5HUMY6YGO3A	0312861540	116661784	Lizzie Borden	Books	2	8	13	N	N	Not For the Serious Borden Enthusiast	I picked up this book one day while looking for a study on the Borden case.  It was only after I started reading it that I realized it was fiction.  The book kept my interest and I read it through.  The author definitely researched the subject, offering an analysis of the characters and living arrangements of the Borden household.  But for someone like me who wanted to learn more about the history of the crime, a novel will not do.  From Lizzie's odd relationship with her father to her sexual experimentation, it is a very disturbing account.  Engstrom's version of the crime itself, I'll warn you, is very homoerotic.  It was a little much for my tastes.	2003-03-25
US	51752008	RI58CE50GW5FH	0525235000	818610459	The Winning Edge	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Must for the Dolphin Fan!	Believe it or not, I actually wrote a book report on The Winning Edge when I was in the 4th grade some twenty years ago.  At the time I worshipped the Dolphins and Shula who, during my youth, was still the head coach in Miami.  I have very fond memories of this book.  Written soon after the Dolphins' famous 17-0 season, Shula describes his childhood (how the spelling of his surname changed because a teacher kept mispronouncing it), his football playing years during which he was part of one of the biggest trades of the day (first hearing about it while reading the newspaper), his coaching days in Baltimore where he was criticized by owner Rosenbloom for not being able to win &quot;the big one,&quot; his rapidly growing family, and his early, yet already legendary, career with the Miami Dolphins.  One humorous story I remember is when he and his eldest son David (who would be one of the ongoing string of unsuccessful head coaches in Cincinnati) had to hitchhike home after a big playoff win because their car wouldn't start.  The book includes a middle section of glossy black and white photos.  From the Longest Game, to the undefeated season, to the Super Bowl victory, this book definitely represents the best time it was to be a Dolphin fan.	2003-03-11
US	51752008	R2SR7KXJB0TK3U	0393314820	819484944	Black Majority: Negroes in Colonial South Carolina from 1670 through the Stono Rebellion (Norton Library)	Books	3	13	23	N	N	Good Study of Africans in 18th Century South Carolina	Peter Wood presents a very thorough account of Africans in South Carolina in the 1700s.  From the first Africans to arrive on a Spanish expedition in 1526 and the African migrants arriving from Barbados in 1670 to the social tensions of the 1700s, Wood covers such topics as cattle raising, rice cultivation, disease, family life, religion, Black English, growing anxieties between whites and blacks, and the Stono Rebellion in 1739.  Blacks became the majority population in South Carolina by the early 1700s.  They were brought in as laborers and were immune to many lowland diseases that led to the higher mortality and morbidity rate among European settlers.  Interestingly, the sickle cell trait heightened Africans' resistance to malaria.  What I gathered from this work is that, while Africans were enslaved by the whites, Africans shaped South Carolina more than any other group through such things as their knowledge of cattle grazing, rice planting and cleaning, etc.  Interesting book but, due to the narrowness of the study, I would only recommend it to those interested in black history or South Carolina.	2003-03-11
US	51752008	RF4IIDQCQ1P6P	0061312274	607286425	The Puritan Family: Religion and Domestic Relations in Seventeenth-Century New England	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Wonderful Introduction to Puritan Culture and Belief	The professor who required this book in the class I took a few years ago knows the author, Edmund Morgan, personally.  She told a story of how she and several other professors were having dinner with Morgan during a History convention.  One professor remarked that Morgan's resume must be as thick as a book due to his successful career.  Morgan responded that he had no resume and the other professors realized that if Morgan needed funding for a certain project, his name was all that was needed.  After reading this book, I can understand why Morgan is so respected in his field.  Not only is this work well researched but the writing style is very engaging.  Morgan covers the following topics: Puritan ideology and views on freedom; marriage (a husband's authority was actually more limited than in other societies); parents and children (children-even girls-left home to live with their master as an apprentice in their chosen, or their parent's chosen, calling or, in the case of girls, house keeping); the importance of early education; punishment; masters and servants (a master was as responsible for the soul of his servant as he was for the soul of his child); the church and social order (Puritans should live in families as solitude was cause for suspicion); and tribalism.  In the first chapter, Morgan explains the paradox between good conduct and salvation in Puritan belief.  Good conduct was regarded as the result of salvation not the cause of it. . Anyone interested in Puritan life will find this 186-page book an excellent introduction.	2003-03-11
US	51752008	R38RLPG4C1JJ01	0195029909	545630035	The Alcoholic Republic: An American Tradition	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Interesting Study on American Alcoholic Consumption	William Rorabaugh, an associate professor of History at the University of Washington, provides a very interesting study of alcoholic consumption in the United States from the 18th century through the mid 1800s.  He looks at the issue from the supply side (expense and technology in the production of distilled beverages and the import of rum) and the demand side.  There is some eye-opening information in this work.  The annual per capita consumption of alcohol between 1800-1830 exceeded 5 gallons; nearly triple today's consumption (p. 8).  The demand for alcohol (particularly whiskey) stemmed from such things as alleged medical and dietary benefits, social camaraderie, a way to cope with a rapidly changing society, and such particle reasons as the lack of alternatives (water and milk was unhealthy and other substitutes were comparatively expensive) and strong beverages were needed to overcome the bland, monotonous American diet.  Rorabaugh also devotes much of this study to the medical and moral critics of alcohol, including temperance societies.  One doctor in the 1740s favored moderation: \\"not more than one bottle of wine each evening\\" (p. 32).   I believe there is a lot of over-generalization in this study, especially when disillusionment over the voting system and the burden of living up to the ideals of the independent man are used as reasons for drinking (although drinking probably came before such feelings).  Still, the book is extremely well-researched, with source notes at the end and several appendixes on estimating consumption of alcohol, cross-national comparisons of consumption, and cook books.  The text, excluding the appendixes, is 222 pages and includes illustrations.	2003-03-09
US	51752008	R18KOE2U007R02	0316279722	135747598	The Punch: One Night, Two Lives, and the Fight That Changed Basketball Forever	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Feinstein Doesn't Make His Case	I first heard about the punch incident between L.A. Laker power forward Kermit Washington and Houston Rocket All-Star Rudy Tomjanovich on a 25th anniversary television clip.  I was intrigued by the story.  This book was mentioned in the program so I sought it out.  The title of the book piqued my interest even more: &quot;...The Fight That Changed Basketball Forever.&quot;  I had never heard of the punch until that 25th anniversary story.  I was 3 years old in 1977 when the event occurred and had not been very interested in basketball until the last three years.  I was definitely opening this book ignorant on the subject.  Feinstein's words and the current state of the NBA as I see it are the only pieces of evidence I have as to whether this event &quot;changed basketball forever.&quot;  <br />First, the good points:  Feinstein offers some description on the game in 1977 (background I needed).  I had no idea that there was enough fighting to put the NBA in almost the same league as the NHL.  I learned that only two referees oversaw the game until the following year, and it was difficult for only two to control the game.  A thorough account of the event and the aftermath is given, including some insight into the struggles of Tomjanovich's life that, I assume, have not been written in such detail before this book.  Feinstein also gives a thorough background on the lives of Washington and Tomjanovich.  In the case of Washington:  what's a good way for a PR guy to catapult the career of an otherwise unknown player?  Make up a reachable milestone like an average of 20 rebounds and 20 points per game for the season.  Washington's rise to fame was very interesting.  The book also shows that most of the animosity is between Washington and Kevin Kunnert (the player Washington blames for starting the fight that led to the punch).<br />Problems I find:  Like many other reviewers noted, Feinstein repeats a lot of information.  The first several chapters are a reiteration of theevent and immediate aftermath.  Similar quotes are used throughout the book (I lost count of how many times Tomjanovich is quoted as saying he doesn't want to be remembered as the guy who &quot;got nailed&quot;).  The repetitive nature of the book doesn't bother me as much as the overall style, which doesn't seem very professional to me, especially from an author of so many sports books and receiver of so much praise.  Some of the quotes he chose to use seem almost silly.  My favorite example is on page 149: &quot;For some reason we always had trouble in the Palestra,&quot; Washington said.  &quot;I think it may have something to do with the fact that those teams were always good.&quot;  How does he get quotes like that!<br />In sum, I bet this story has been written as an article in sports magazines with glossy color photos many times.  I think I'd enjoy it in article form more and probably not miss much information.  The story seemed to be stretched to fill the pages of a book.  What's more, I don't think Feinstein made his case that the event changed basketball.  The league already decided to lower the boom on violent acts before the 1977 regular season and violent behavior is still seen a lot in the NBA today with the usual fines and suspensions.  Repeat offenders like Ron Artest are praised for their intensity and &quot;playing the game the way it should be played.&quot;  Is there another punch waiting to happen somewhere?  I hope not, but I don't think 1977 has changed much beyond the lives of those who were involved.	2003-03-09
US	51752008	R1P7D14IIEUOXD	0809001330	782584042	Amusing the Million: Coney Island at the Turn of the Century (American Century)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The Photographs Tell the Story	I purchased this book for a college course on American social history.  It was nice to open a book with tons of pictures and interesting, but not too intellectually stimulating, text.  Kasson's book was a welcomed change from most of the books required in my college classes.  The basic theme of the book is that, during the turn of the twentieth century, the American social fabric was changing with industrialization, urbanization, and immigration.  These well-known changes seeped down into leisure society as well.  The rigid Victorian weekend activities of museum and symphonies was giving way to less &quot;genteel&quot; forms of entertainment such as movies, prize fighting and amusement parks.  Coney Island was &quot;a harbinger of modernity.&quot;  The book covers the history of the park including specific attractions like the Steeplechase and Luna Park as well as its demise, losing &quot;its distinctiveness by the very triumphs of its values.&quot;  What's even more valuable than the text is the wonderful photographs that really capture the joy visitors experienced.  It is only 112 pages and full of these photos, so it definitely makes a light, fun introduction to early 20th century American culture in general or, specifically, to Coney Island history.	2003-03-09
US	51752008	R250Y95VN9ASDW	9992961031	445760232	The Third Reich Almanac	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Reference Guide!	This is not a book that you will want to curl up with, but if you need to find information on Nazi Germany fast, The Third Reich Almanac will be a valuable source in your library.  As a former history major in college, I've done a lot of research on Hitler and Nazism for essays and term papers.  Sometimes I just needed a certain piece of information to finish a paragraph or to define a concept (now what was the \\"phony war\\" again?, what was the strategy of blitzkrieg?, etc.).  This book was the first to which I turned and I often did not need to refer to anything else.  All the key characters, events, treaties, and ideas are here, plus others not so well-known (a list of holidays in Nazi Germany, entry on the Edelweiss Pirates,  atrocities at Babi Yar, etc.).  There is also a surprising amount of detail.  For example, under the entry \\"Nazi Party Membership,\\" you get 1930 demographics on who were members (24% white collar, 7.7% civil service, 4.5% over 60 years of age, etc.). My only qualm is the spelling of Goebbels used (the authors drop the \\"e\\" and use umlauts which just looks silly). Included are appendixes to the different military campaigns, maps, and a center glossy section with photos.  If you're looking for a quick reference guide, seek out this book.  You'll be surprised what all is in here.	2003-03-03
US	51752008	R3NDNOFTFDZVEP	0517183536	765434538	Complete Book of U.S. Presidents	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Not Just a Reference on U.S. Presidents, but on U.S. History	I was a history major in college and did some student teaching at the high school level. Whether I was working on an essay or preparing a lecture, this book was one of my favorite references. Not only does it offer well organized information on the Presidents (birth, childhood, family, education, etc.), it offers tons of information on the people, legislation, and events of their administrations. It describes cabinet members, laws that were passed, foreign relations, domestic issues, you name it. It saved me a lot of time in my research. The sections on the physical descriptions, personality traits and, in some cases, pre and extramarital affairs on each of the presidents was very interesting and offered info you normally do not find in other books. I highly recommend it.	2003-03-03
US	51752008	R1EABF08P42JXT	014003112X	341839247	Men Who Play God: The Story of the Hydrogen Bomb	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Insightful Look at a Dangerous Time	British journalist Norman Moss presents a clear and engaging account of the origins and general acceptance of the hydrogen bomb in world affairs.  Moss gives a brief history on the production of the H-bomb as well as chapters on physicist Edward Teller, the Bikini Island tests, protester Pat O'Connell, \\"On Thermonuclear War\\" author Herman Khan, Robert McNamara, etc.  Focusing on the main actors on the nuclear stage (the United States and the Soviet Union), Moss also includes details on the nuclear ambitions of Great Britain, France, and China.  The U.S. is often painted as the aggressor in nuclear production as the Soviet Union still regarded ground troops as the main force in future wars.<br />Although the topic of the book is highly complex, Moss writes in a journalist's style that is easy to understand even if the reader knows nothing about physics.  Moss also examines the human side of the issue-offering a glimpse of the life of a British bomber pilot, the concerns of an otherwise law-abiding grandmother who has been arrested numerous times for anti-nuke demonstrations, and a look inside an American missile silo.<br />A professor recommended this book to my class.  I sought it out and have read it twice.  It is very eye-opening , especially the information on how devastating the nuclear forces of the Cold War  nations were.  A case study of the Radiation Subcommittee determined one Russian nuclear attack would kill 28% of the U.S. population.  Of course, this book was written over 30 years ago, so imagine how dangerous it would become and still may be!  As Moss states in his conclusion, from the moment we gained the knowledge to produce nukes, they remain a permanent aspect of human culture.  The info in this book will never be obsolete as is evident in the latest rush to build shelters in this latest time of chemical warfare.	2003-02-26
US	51752008	R37T0ZRG4RZF8Q	014005667X	10328717	A Nervous Splendor: Vienna 1888-1889	Books	4	5	5	N	N	History That Reads Like a Novel	With the use of a wide range of source materials, including newspapers, periodicals, memoirs, and unpublished diaries, Frederic Morton presents an intriguing account of a short, yet important, period in Vienna's history.  Morton chooses July 1888 through April 1889 as a watershed period because these years marked the time when \\"the western dream started to go wrong.\\"  Morton paints the Austrian Empire of the late 1880s as backward (many still used gas lanterns) and stagnant, still obsessed with protocol, tradition, and keeping up appearances.  The Habsburgs still hung on to their monarchy and modern classes.  The industrialists, for example, had little to no access to the court.  Morton looks at the elite of society in a number of areas like science (Freud), music (Brahams, Strauss, Buckner), and theatre (Herzl, Schnitzler).  As another reviewer noted, it is a very \\"gossipy\\" history written with a novelists' flair.  Through private diary entries, Morton is able to keep a running total of how many times Author Schnitzler  (who inspired the Kubrik film Eyes Wide Shut) and his girlfriend \\"commit acts of love.\\"  The rise in prophylactic sales during carnival season is described as is the pursuit of the Crown Prince's affections by the girls of the fashion crowd.  <br />What I found to be the most interesting is the chapters on the Crown Prince Rudolf: the liberal-minded heir to the Austrian throne.  The progressive Crown Prince was stifled by the traditions of the court.  He was forced to entertain guests he did not like (such as Kaiser Wilhelm II) and was only able to voice his ideas through unsigned articles in a newspaper.  His choice of the Mayerling incident to solve his problems still seems odd for an intelligent, 30 year-old prince.  His choice of taking Mary Vetsera with him seems more for convenience than for some love tragedy as she was willing to go along with his plan whereas his regular mistress laughed it off.  For an alternative view on the Crown Prince'sdemise, I recommend a book entitled The Mayerling Murder.  <br />Morton's account of the aftermath of Mayerling was very interesting (the rise in the stock market and the foreign gossip pages lent out by cab drivers).  The real impact of Mayerling may not have had as much impact on history as one might expect, especially since Franz Joseph lived until the midpoint of World War I.  Considering the years and the nation covered, the ending is very predictable (I guessed it before I started reading the book).	2003-02-10
US	51752008	R34T80ZRV37RZM	0590438492	552566972	Buried In Ice: A Time Quest Book	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Photos Alone Are Worth the Stars	After seeing a clip on the Franklin Expedition in a documentary on mummies, I rushed to the library to see if there was a book on the subject.  The only one available was this book in the juvenile section.  At first I was disappointed, but, noticing a photo of the preserved body of one of the sailors, I checked it out.  For a kids' book, this one is pretty cool.  The first part of the book is a fictionalized (and very sanitized) story of chief stoker John Torrington and his friend and stoker Luke Smith on the HMS Terror. William Braine and Thomas Hartnell (John's brother) also make appearances.  This story leaves the reader with questions that the author will answer in the second section describing the disinterring of Torrington, John Hartnell, and Braine and the information their well-preserved remains revealed.  The photos are amazing and make this book fascinating for all ages. The first illustration of Torrington in the fictionalized story has him wearing the same articles found on his corpse (an intriguing, if a bit creepy, touch).  The reading level and, at times, disturbing content is probably appropriate for kids 5th grade and up.	2003-02-10
US	51752008	RFNM22CZKM1T1	0155058002	358874157	The Irony of Democracy:  An Uncommon Introduction to American Politics	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Non-Voters Like Me Are Good for the Country!	I read this book for an introductory political science course in junior college and I enjoyed it so much that, although I was not planning to be a political science major, I decided not to sell this book back to the college.  This textbook is a thorough , well-written, and well-organized study of the basics of American democracy (or republicanism, if you will). The authors are brutally honest in their overview of the American democratic system. The irony of democracy?: &quot;Elites-not masses-govern the United States&quot; and, my favorite, &quot;that democratic ideals survive because the masses are generally apathetic and inactive&quot; (the masses breed intolerance, you see). Among the fifteen chapters is one entitled &quot;Elite-Mass Communication: Television, the Press, and the Pollsters,&quot; which I found to be very interesting.	2003-02-04
US	51752008	R2UN3Q2ZZRVJD4	0195133323	732963893	The Great War and Modern Memory	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Fascinating Analysis of the Works of Great War Soldiers	I have had an interest in the First World War since I saw an 8 hour documentary on public television a few years ago.  Trying to decide which book to purchase on the subject, this work caught my eye.  A book on the way in which the Great War helped shape the modern world was just what I was looking for.  Plus, it was written by Paul Fussell, who I recalled from the famous essay \\"Thank God for the Atom Bomb.\\" Fussell is one of the most respected historians with a reputation for telling it like it is. Well, this book was a little different than I thought it would be, but did not disappoint.<br />From this book, I've gained a better understanding about life in the trenches and the general backgrounds of the Great War soldiers (at least a better understanding than would be expected from a spoiled Gen. Xer who would never experience such a watershed event).  Fussell explains the trench system and the daily routines very well by including many details a lot of books do not offer.  I did not realize the close proximity between the trenches and the civilian populations or how speedy and efficient the mail service was at the front.  He gives a nice overview of the time period (what was considered important, etc.) to help the reader understand what ideas shaped the lives of soldiers before the war and how their backgrounds helped them cope and make some sort of sense out of the wretched conditions they faced (i.e. a common interest in pastoral images).  \\"Pilgrim's Progress,\\" for example, was a novel most British soldiers read.  In fact, language, in general, was one of the only forms of entertainment at the time, so most soldiers were connected by literature no matter their social class (hard to imagine these days). Fussell also gives a brief history of sky awareness to explain how life in the trenches caused many soldiers to view the wonders above them in a new light.<br />As a professor of English literature, it is understandable that Fussell concentrated on the works of English soldiers: Siegfried Sassoon, David Jones, Robert Graves, Wilfred Owen, Edmund Blunden, Robert Nichols to name a few (if a reader is interested in other combatants, they may wish to put off buying this book). Fussell is such an expert of this era (not only of literature) that he is able to warn the reader of fictional stories in the \\"memoirs\\" and the \\"autobiographies\\" he analyzes.  Fussell regards Grave's \\"Goodbye To All That\\" as fiction (and Graves even admitted as much).  Of course, not being historical fact does not diminish the importance of such works.  Fussell examines poems and memoirs in a way that helps even readers like me (who have not read any of the works) to recognize the ways they shed light on the Great War. You do not need vast knowledge of the First World War to enjoy this book.<br />Fussell does touch on \\"modern memory\\" (at least from a 1970's perspective).  WWII suspicion of the press (those stories of concentration camps can't be THAT bad), Hitler's wartime strategies, words like \\"lousy\\", etc. all hearken back to the Great War.  But the connection to modern times is not as much of a focus as the title indicates.  Understanding the Great War through British literature is what I came away with as the theme of this book.	2003-01-24
US	51752008	R3164XLMLQ52JR	0226041395	810202436	Manliness and Civilization: A Cultural History of Gender and Race in the United States, 1880-1917 (Women in Culture and Society)	Books	5	28	33	N	N	Unique Study on the Changing Meaning of "Manliness"	Gail Bederman writes a unique and impressive study regarding the changing views of American \\"manliness\\" during the decades spanning the turn of the century.  In the Victorian years, \\"manliness\\" was seen as sexual and physical restraint and moderation in all things.  As the 20th century drew near, however, changes in society--which included industrialization, economic instability, and rising immigration--called for a different view of \\"manliness.\\"  Was mankind becoming soft? Was this softness opening the door for the advancement of less \\"civilized\\" groups?  It is important to note that by \\"manliness\\" and \\"civilization\\" the subjects of this book meant the \\"manliness\\" of whites and white \\"civilization.\\"  This attitude was the reason Jack Johnson's (black boxer) defeat of Jim Jeffries (white boxer) in 1910 was such a socially explosive event.<br />Bederman offers chapters on several period thinkers on the subject including Charlotte Perkins Gilman and Theodore Roosevelt.  Gilman saw women as the driving force of civilization.  According to this early feminist, the gender-specific roles of Victorian America and women's economic dependence upon men doomed civilized advancement.  Roosevelt, on the other hand, championed a return to the more \\"savage\\" behavior of the frontiersman in his \\"strenuous life\\" speeches and writings.<br />Overall, Manliness and Civilization is an interesting, thought-provoking study.  It has me wondering how Frederick Jackson Turner's thesis on the end of the American frontier and the Gold/Silver (was one considered more \\"manly\\"?) debates of the time ties into this topic	2003-01-20
US	51752008	RO7NMCRKXQ99E	006095566X	810609829	Simpsons Comics A-Go-Go	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Go-Go and Buy this Book	This was the twelfth Simpsons Comics book I've read and, while it's not the best of the dozen, it is still a very funny book and a must for the Simpsons comics connoisseur (you got to love the cover art). Here's what you get:<br />\\"Rhymes and Misdemeanors\\":  Martin Prince is in love with Lisa and, when his love is unrequited, they both do battle in the form of poetry readings at a nightclub dissing each other.<br />\\"The Great Springfield Frink-Out\\":  A giant mishap occurs at the Frink labs (actually someone put tin foil in the microwave).  This event causes everything to be topsy-turvy in <BR>Springfield, for example, Marge is the mayor, Homer is a mobster, Cecil is the celebrity clown, and Bart has ambitions to be as cool as Milhouse.<br />\\"Tiger Teen\\":  Fun mock mini mag in the style of those old 16 and Tiger Beat teen magazines of our youth.  Of course, this one features Homer's barber shop group Be Sharps (\\"Homer Answers 40 Intimate Questions\\"-is that a perfect copy of those teen magazines or what?).  There are also a few familiar names of 80s pop stars on the cover (\\"Cory Hart Takes off his Sunglasses-Exclusive photos!\\")<br />\\"Burnsie on Board\\":  Mr. Burns tries to live out his boyhood dream of being an Olympic skiing gold medalist by enlisting the help of Bart.<br />\\"To Live and Diaper in Springfield\\":  To pay for an expensive toilet paper dispenser Homer desires from an extravagant shopping network, Marge starts a daycare center.  Her attention to other babies (particularly the one with the single eyebrow) causes Maggie to run away.<br />\\"Fan-Tasty Island\\":  Mr. Burns needs a rare toxin to get by the Coalition to Reduce Air Pollution. This toxin can only be found inside a wood carving on a remote island.  The perfect cover-up is to send a family to find the treasure-the Simpsons, of course. Very funny comic, but the ending is a little far-fetched.	2003-01-20
US	51752008	R2XJ7SYF8XPO3Q	0393097986	225990568	German's Aims in the First World War	Books	5	36	42	N	N	Groundbreaking, Controversial Study!	Fischer's works regarding Germany and the First World War is a must for anyone interested in the events and decisions leading up to 1914 and for anyone interested in historiography.  When Fischer unleashed this book in 1961, it created a tidal wave in the German historian community.  Germany's Aims... challenged traditional views regarding the origins of the First World War and developed conclusions that were devastating to the reputations and memories of individuals and an entire nation.<br />The traditional view regarding the causes of the Great War, as explained by prominent German historians on the subject like Gehard Ritter, was that the leaders of Germany felt surrounded by the allied nations and thus entered the war for defensive reasons.  Most historians outside of Germany agreed that Germany was not the sole culprit of 1914.  The &quot;guilt clause&quot; in the Versailles Treaty is still almost universally condemned.  Through an exhaustive study of documents out of Germany, Fritz Fischer comes up with a different--and shocking--conclusion:  Germany was to blame.<br />Here are a few of the ways Fischer drew his conclusion:  (1) Fischer considered the authoritarian nature of German society that allowed military forces to take over.  (2) He looked at the economic situation that pressed German leaders to seek more annexations or, rather, a &quot;place in the sun&quot;  (a Marxian approach not used by more traditional historians).  (3) He regarded Chancellor Bethmann-Hollweg (a man with plenty of apologists) not as a man who wanted to limit the war, but as a product of the forces who aimed at world power status for Germany. (4) Most importantly, Fischer discovered the &quot;September Memorandum&quot; which spelled out the minimum war aims of the German civilian leadership (to overrun France and spread German power eastward by weakening Russia).<br />Fischer earned many critics because of his work.  One weakness is that Fischer only studied German documents.  Tobe fair, a similar exhaustive examination of the archives of the other belligerents would be an impossible task for any one historian.  Fischer's work needs to be seen as a starting place not as a final assessment.  The ramifications of this study on Germany are clear:  it's obvious Germany was the most to blame for WWII.  Having to also accept blame for WWI would be a hard pill to swallow.	2003-01-14
US	51752008	R277KHDZ5GA3HJ	0870241826	447310487	003: The Sword and the Scepter: The Problem of Militarism in Germany (The Tradegy of Statesmanship : Bethmann Hollweg As War Chancellor, 1914-1917, Vol. 3	Books	3	6	9	N	N	A Narrow Response to Fischer	This volume of Ritter's Sword and Scepter series is his attempt to challenge the conclusions of Fritz Fischer's groundbreaking study &quot;Germany's Aims in the First World War.&quot;  Unlike traditional historians like Ritter, Fischer did not paint the Great War as self defense on the part of Germany.  Fischer concluded that Germany pushed for war to satisfy her need for world power.<br />Ritter lived in Imperial Germany and served in the Great War.  After the war, Ritter lived in the Weimar Republic that was in great need of preserving her self esteem. Although there was a new government, officials still had to defend the German Empires actions before and during the war in order to demonstrate the illegitimacy of the vindictive Versailles treaty.  Considering such an upbringing, it is easy to see why Ritter was quick to discredit Fischer's work.<br />Ritter's rebuttal is rather weak, however.  He concentrates on Chancellor Bethmann-Hollweg, painting him as a moderate of highly ethical intentions who saw WWI as a defensive war.  Ritter, however, does not look closely enough at the forces that were influencing German leadership (i.e. economic need for more land). Ritter sees militarism as almost solely political and ignores its influence on German society.  Finally, Ritter fails to discredit Fischer's most damaging piece of evidence: the September Memorandum.  This document spelled out the minimum war aims of the German civilian leadership (to overrun France and spread German power eastward by weakening Russia).  Ritter played it down stating it was a first draft and more reflection than decision.  Ritter defended Germany's stubborn claim to Alsace-Lorraine because it was a national &quot;emblem&quot; for Germany's proudest moment.  Ritter downplays the greedy Brest-Litovsk treaty as purely out of economic and defensive necessity on the part of Germany that would be revised in later peace negotiations. Ritter makes a lot of assumptions as to the state of mind of theGerman leaders.  Although this volume is an essential source in the debate, if Ritter's goal was to discredit Fischer's exhaustive study, in my view, he failed.	2003-01-14
US	51752008	R2HV5KETIARBX3	0156465094	899540116	Journey into the Whirlwind	Books	5	28	30	N	N	A Courageous Woman Who Remained Loyal To Her Party	In her work Journey into the Whirlwind, Eugenia Ginzburg gives a personal account of the first three years of her eighteen-year ordeal during the Stalin purges of the 1930s. Teacher and editor of the Communist paper &quot;Red Tartary,&quot; Ginzburg was accused of being a Trotskyist counter-revolutionary by a colleague and was thrown in jail, interrogated, dragged from prison to prison, kept in solitary confinement, and finally sent to a labor camp in the Siberian taiga.  Ginzburg's position reveals the fact that party members (especially of high rank) were the first victims of the purges.  Also, her past camaraderie with such people as the daughter of the notorious Soviet jurist Andrey Vyshinsky allows Ginzburg to offer the reader information about the important players of the purges that other victims may not have been able to provide.<br />Politically, it must be noted that this is not an anti-Communist book.  The author remained loyal to her party.  If anything, this book reveals how very strong party loyalties were to the men and women who were victimized as &quot;enemies of the people.&quot;  Throughout the book, Ginzburg refers to her cell mates by their party affiliation.  Old party rivalries even persisted in the prisons.  Communists often refused to believe that their government was arresting loyal party members and would never question the &quot;conspirator&quot; accounts in the Soviet newspapers.  Ginzburg's husband, for example, remarked after seeing such a report: &quot;Have you heard? Petrov has turned out to be an enemy of the people!  How cunning he must have been to get away with it for so long.&quot;  Out of this loyalty to the party came a loyalty to Stalin.  One inmate still exhibited hope asserting &quot;We must all of us write to Stalin so that he knows the truth, and when he does, how can he let such things happen to the people?&quot;<br />Historically, Ginzburg's book is a document of the Soviet tactics to extract confessions and force accusations to incriminate others.  The book does not contain descriptions of overly heinous crimes. Most of the abuse Ginzburg received was psychological.  She did not, for example, experience the &quot;standing cell&quot; at black Lake where prisoners were placed in a dark room so narrow as to permit the prisoner only to stand with his arms at his sides.  What Ginzburg describes is the social and psychological adjustment of the prisoners.  For example, the inmates learned to communicate be tapping messages on their cell walls.  Socially speaking, Ginzburg reveals that prison life &quot;developed the better sides of my personality.&quot; No, this is not an apologist's work, but this book is also not a condemnation of the Communist party.	2003-01-10
US	51752008	R1FYZ4WE9G2A8O	0192892576	712376652	The Russian Revolution (OPUS)	Books	4	18	25	N	N	A Look at a 15-Year Long Revolution	As the title indicates, the gist of Fitzpatrick's argument is that the Russian Revolution was not completed until 1932.  Only at this time did the contours of Russian society become stable.  Massive numbers of proletariats were educated and became bureaucrats who helped achieve Russian industrialization.<br />Other points in this book are that: (1) The Bolshevik party was a mass party in 1917.  Lenin was no murdering dictator but was a persuasive leader.  His threat to resign from the party pushed the decision to sign the Brest-Litovsk treaty. (2) The peasants were suspicious of the Bolshevik aims to ignite class hatred in the countryside.  The Bolsheviks needed to send thugs into the countryside to wage war on a reluctant peasantry in order to force industrialization on the nation.<br />Although this book is relatively short, especially considering the time period covered, it is very meaty and requires careful reading to understand the main concepts.	2003-01-10
US	51752008	R32DRE38MHQMIE	0534435459	445745599	Irony of Democracy (Millenial)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Non-Voters Like Me Are Good For Democracy!	This textbook is a thorough , well-written, and well-organized study of the basics of American democracy. The authors are brutally honest in their overview of the American democratic system. The irony of democracy?: \\"Elites-not masses-govern the United States\\" and, my favorite, \\"that democratic ideals survive because the masses are generally apathetic and inactive\\" (the masses breed intolerance, you see). Among the fifteen chapters is one entitled \\"Elite-Mass Communication: Television, the Press, and the Pollsters,\\" which I found to be very interesting.	2003-01-10
US	51752008	R18Z4JI4CNKTMC	0195025636	378176581	The Slave Community: Plantation Life in the Antebellum South	Books	5	54	56	N	N	Excellent for Leisure Reading and as a Reference Guide	I read this book for my history of American slavery class and I really enjoyed it.  It is one of the books I did not sell back to the college when the semester ended.  Blassingame focuses on the slave culture and uses such sources as folk songs, fugitive wanted posters, slave interviews and correspondence, diaries, and memoirs (from slaves and slave holders) to bring insight on life on the plantation.  The author offers an extensive, well-organized bibliography which, alone, makes this book valuable.<br />The chapters cover the topics of enslavement and acculturation, the Americanization of the slave and the Africanization of the South, slave culture, family, rebels and runaways, stereotypes and institutional roles (i.e. the \\"Sambo\\" role), plantation realities, and slave personality types.  This work also includes appendixes on such subjects as African words, numerals, and sentences used by former slaves, and a comparative examination of total institutions.   The book is well-written and also offers numerous illustrations.	2003-01-10
US	51752008	RFJS44CAEJB7X	0060953179	27466978	Simpson's Big Bonanza	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Not Quite Up to Simpsons Comics Standards, but Still Fun	Despite the cover, there is no western-related comic in this book (probably a good thing). This comic book is funny (it includes a comic book convention survival guide and a look at Lisa's dream house), but Matt Groening and company really raised the bar with some of their other comic books-hence the four star grade.<br />&quot;Krustonia&quot;-Krusty starts his own utopian nation to avoid paying income taxes.  Sounds like something he'd do.<br />&quot;Flanders' Big Score&quot;-Fun-diddly-fun comic where amateur detective Ned Flanders investigates the case of the missing church fund-raiser money.<br />&quot;Let's Get Ready to Bumble&quot;-Homer becomes a professional wrestler.  Not as good as the other comics in this book.<br />&quot;Bringing Down Baby&quot;-Short starring Maggie which also includes the infamous baby with the one eyebrow.  Only mildly amusing.<br />&quot;Smitherses!&quot;-The nuclear power plant employees are on strike for a 5 cent per year raise.  True to form, Mr. Burns decides that the best solution is to clone a staff of devoted sycophants (i.e. Smitherses).  When the Smitherses begin to compete for Mr. Burns' attention-Watch out!  This is a funny, imaginative comic.<br />&quot;Bore Us the Movie Gruel&quot;-Bart and company watch a 1950s film starring Troy McClure (how old is this guy?) and a mule.  The usual sarcastic comments are offered.<br />&quot;Radioactive Homer&quot;-A complicated comic.  The gist of it is that Homer believes he is Radioactive Man and joins forces with Leon (insane asylum inmate &quot;Michael Jackson&quot; in the TV episode &quot;Stark Raving Dad&quot;) to take down Mr. Burns' &quot;Project Q&quot; (mentioned in Simpsons Comics #1 in the Extravaganza book).  Has a very funny ending.	2002-12-22
US	51752008	RA65YJTY8UATC	0060951516	426965905	Bartman: The Best of the Best!	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Quality over Quantity	Rather than containing a lot of shorts and fillers like the other Simpsons Comics books (which are fun, too), The Best of the Best includes 3 super length comics all of which are very well written, imaginative, and hilarious.  Here's what you get:<br />\\"Comic Cover Caper\\"-Bart uncovers Comic Book Guy's scam to secure a steady supply of over-priced, defective comic books in his store.  Bartman must take on resident bullies Jimbo, Dolph, and Kearny while learning a little about the American market place in the process.<br />\\"Where Stalks the Penalizer!\\"-Mysterious things are happening to Springfield's vandals, loiterers, and hoodlums.  The perpetrator is known to the media simply as \\"the Penalizer.\\" A defender of justice for everyone (even for those who sometimes beat him up), Bartman pursues this force of disciplinary evil.<br />\\"When Bongos Collide\\"-Itchy and Scratchy pop out of the Simpsons' television and wreak havoc at the nuclear power plant!  You'll never guess the reaction!  Super size comic strip of over 60 pages!	2002-12-22
US	51752008	R2ZFDBLKJFCNO3	0060084693	687416923	Big Book of Bart Simpson (Simpsons Comics Compilations)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Not Very Big and Not Very Funny	As the title indicates, these comics feature the mischievous doings of Bart Simpson.  Only three comics are centered around other characters (\\"Who Wants to Win a Pockfetful of Quarters\\" and \\"Battle of the Boy Bands\\" (Backyard Boys and N'Style) are about Lisa and \\"Bully For You\\" is about Milhouse).  Instead of long comics that the other Simpsons books have, this book is made up of 15 shorter ones.  These comics are also not as funny as most of the ones from the other Simpsons comic books (i.e. Unchained and Wingding).  Younger readers may appreciate this book more than adults like me who crave the cynical view of society brilliantly illustrated in most Simpson material. I have a dozen Simpsons comic books, and this one I'd place in my bottom 3. <br />Case in point is the first comic \\"Big Fat Trouble in Little Springfield.\\"  After making fun of the round, chocolate-loving exchange student Uter, Bart dreams of being grotesquely overweight.  What keeps this comic from being a winner is that only Bart's stomache is bloated.  His head and neck remain the same.  It isn't like in the T.V. episode \\"King Size Homer\\" (my favorite Simpsons episode!) when Bart fantasizes about \\"being a lardo on workman's comp, just like dad.\\"  There he was a big blob cleaning himself with a rag on a stick.  This comic, in contrast, has more juvenile humor.  Nothing like king size Homer trying to make a phone call only to hear a recording \\"The fingers with which you are dialing are too fat.\\"  <br />In the second comic, \\"Grrrl Whirl,\\" Lisa is a soccer star?!  Not only that, she is idolized by the young girls of Springfield?!  This scenario makes very little sense for those who know the Lisa character as the unpopular bookworm with no athletic prowess (except in the one episode where she was an ice hockey goalie).<br />Two highlights are \\"Terror on the Trioculon,\\" a Lost in Space take-off with such characters as Dr. Burns, Saturn's Little Helper, Space Monkey Moe-Moe, and Milbot, and \\"Close Encouters of the Nerd Kind\\" (great title!) where Kang and Kodos try to abduct the typical earth child by aiming their ray over the Simpsons' house.  Professor Frink fans will be happy to know he is featured in three shorts in this book.	2002-12-18
US	51752008	RB86QKIPC9U4J	006093378X	696840790	Simpsons Comics Royale: A Super-Sized Simpson Soiree	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Not as Jam-Packed as Simpsons Comics Unchained	This book is one of the larger ones--159 pages.  Unlike the even bigger book, Unchained,which was over 170 pages of comics and other fun stuff, Royale includes short stories by Matt Groening. These stories are about his childhood (his first bully, cheap haircuts, etc.) that sheds some light on what influenced his creation of those cool Simpsons characters.  While the stories are interesting, I'd prefer more comics, fake advertisements, etc.  Groening could put his stories in a separate book for those interested in his life. Comic-wise, the book includes shorts featuring Radioactive Man, Krusty the Klown, Bartman, Sideshow Mel, and Itchy & Scratchy.  The four full-length comics are as follows:<br />\\"Wall or Nothing\\":  The first comic is the funniest.  In a fight over Springfield's water supply, residents of upper and lower Springfield start a feud that culminates in a giant wall dividing the town.  When visiting his father, Milhouse finds himself on the other side of the wall.  Can Bart rescue his friend?  <br />\\"The Inquisitory Zone\\":  Lisa is excited about a new \\"educational\\" kids' play house at the mall.  Bart is excited when he discovers some of the attractions likes \\"Whack the Abandoned Vehicle,\\" \\"Fun With Saws,\\" and the \\"Graffiti Area.\\"  Wait 'til Lisa finds out whose really behind the Inquisitory Zone.<br />\\"Krusty's 11\\":  Hoping to try out his serious acting skills, Krusty stars in his first motion picture.  The producers, however, only want Krusty to clown around.<br />\\"Lisa's Adventures in Wordland\\":  A very clever comic that can only be appreciated through detailed exploration.  How many comics come with references?	2002-12-15
US	51752008	R2Z29W8FAZPS2E	156686657X	315569034	Titanic: Adventure Out of Time (Brady Games Strategy Guides)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Don't Give Up on the Game!  Get This Book!	I was so excited when I found this book!  I was stuck at a point in the game &quot;Titanic Adventure Out of Time,&quot; and I wanted to continue because the game is so much fun and so intriguing.  When I received this book, I was surprised how far I had gotten without it (to the point where I had to find the notebook).  The book gave me all the hints I needed to solve the game, and I didn't even need to look at the chapter &quot;All Revealed&quot;.  The book has the following chapters: characters, equipment, navigation, Fictional Walkthrough, Hints and Tips, History, World of If (a look at the possibility of time travel), Glossary of Nautical Terms, Hints and Tips-All Revealed, Puzzle Solutions, and appendixes.  It also includes screen photos.  It is not just a guide for solving a game, but a nice little historical and scientific study as well.  My advice is to try the game without any help until you reach a point when you do not know what to do next and are just wandering around (sometimes talking with characters, especially Penny Pringle, can help you figure out your next move).  Once you reach that point, consult the Hints and Tips chapter so you can move onto the next stage.  Only consult the &quot;All Revealed&quot; chapter as a last resort (as I mentioned before, I didn't need that chapter to solve the game).  Someone asked about the doll in Sasha's room.  Here's just a hint, so if you don't want one, don't read on:  the numbers on the small dials must add up to equal the number on the outside dial (12, 15, 4, 19).  I figured it out by trial and error.	2002-12-05
US	51752008	R1YQK29KLGXW9Q	0060007974	910729619	Simpsons Comics Unchained (Simpsons Comics Compilations)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	More Simpsons Comics for the Buck!	This book is jam-packed with Simpsons Comics! It is 174 pages; 30% bigger than most Simpsons Comics books! And the quality of the comics has not gone down one iota. Here's what you get in this book:<br />\\"The Geek Shall Inherit the Earth\\": Springfield's top three nerds, Doug, Gary, and Benjamin (Homer hung out with them in the TV episode \\"Homer Goes to College\\") are finally forced to leave the secure confines of college to venture into the real world. They end up in Homer's garage. Soon, they become millionaires after creating a violent computer game. While pursuing investment ideas, which includes a sci-fi motion picture that may be too scientifically correct, they leave their business in the hands of Homer. Good idea? What do you think?<br />\\"The Absent-Minded Protester\\": Grandpa is tired of being ignored, so he tries a new way to express his ideas that makes Bart proud.<br />\\"Dullards to Donuts\\": Mr. Burns' research lab produces a donut with powerful addictive qualities. When Burns cuts off the donut supply to his employees, they will make any concession to get them back. The proceeding trial includes appearances from conservative talk show host Birch Barlow (his followers are called \\"Echo Drones\\"), Lard Lad, and the mob.<br />\\"Sense and Censorability\\": As punishment for doing a lousy job on his oral biographical report, Bart has to present an historical research project with Homer! When they find their sources from the \\"Adults Only\\" section of the comic book store, Watch Out!<br />\\"Sideshow Simpsons\\": With Krusty's sidekicks on strike, Krusty shoots his prime time network special from the Simpsons' house.<br />\\"In Search of the Lost Donut Holes\\": Cute and clever short that has advertising icon and donut connoisseur Lard Lad and friends traveling to \\"dimensional gateways\\" through the universe in search of the missing donut holes. Comic includes slogans, editor's notes, and \\"Brain Glazer\\" puzzles.<br />\\"Bart Simpson and the Krusty Brand Fun Factory\\": Bart, Ralph,Barney, Nelson and their choices of \\"legal guardians or parole officers\\" win a tour of Krusty's new cherry soda factory. Bart chooses to take grandpa so Homer goes with Barney posing as Barney's mother. But, wait.  Someone tries to hack into the computerized factory with his prison laptop! Why, it's Sideshow Bob!<br />\\"The Homer Show\\": Taken from the Jim Carey movie, a group of TV execs find Homer the subject of a plethora of videos sent to the Funniest Home Movies program. They plan on creating a 24 hour a day TV show around him, but must get the entire town to cooperate.<br />\\"Slobberwacky\\": Old fashioned style poem featuring many Simpsons characters.	2002-12-05
US	51752008	R1BG9KZQKKSHQI	0060952806	198991235	Simpsons Comics on Parade	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good, But Not Up To Simpsons Comics Standards	I have a dozen Simpsons comic books and read them all over and over again.  On Parade, though, is my least favorite.  Like all the books, the artwork is awesome and it has all the popular Simpsons characters, but, unlike the other books, most of the comics have very weak endings.<br />\\"Send in the Clowns\\":  A \\"devastating mass of hot air\\" is headed towards Springfield.  The Presidential campaign, that is.  It even includes big-eared third party candidate L. Ron Percent.  Nice idea, but the story doesn't really go anywhere.<br />\\"Homey Alone\\":  Just when you thought every Simpsons character has been the subject of a comic strip, here's a strip starring Li'l Homey (Homer as a kid).  Homey is left home alone and sets up a burglar trap.  Who comes knocking but \\"eaglette\\" Li'l Mrs. Krabapal selling cookies.  Again, a weak ending to a promising strip follows.<br />\\"Marge Attacks\\":  Frustrated with the lack of quality programming on the tube, Marge writes a letter to Mayor Quimby.  Quimby campaigners think riding on Marge's wholesome apron strings will be the way to get the morally challenged mayor re-elected.  Again, the ending could have been better.<br />\\"Diner Violations\\":  Funny short starring Springfield's finest, Lou and Eddie.<br />\\"Game Called Because of Pain\\":  Itchy and Scratchy short with a baseball theme.<br />\\"Get Off the Bus\\":  Sideshow Bob attends to his prison duty of cleaning the school buses and decides to fight for the cause of school bus safety (why Bob all of a sudden is concerned with the safety of children is unexplained).  Ironically, Bob boobytraps Bart's seat so that, when Bart is hurled to a gruesome death, changes will be made to save the lives of others.  It's up to Otto to save Bart and his classmates.  This comic is one of the better ones in this books.<br />\\"They Fixed Homer's Brain\\":  They saved the best for last.  Homer needs money to buy Lisa a new saxophone after he broke her old one.  In typical Homer fashion, he volunteers for Prof. Frink's intelligence experiment.  Homer jumps from \\"Fat Albert\\" intelligence to \\"Albert Einstein\\" intelligence after a single pill.  Looks like he won't be needing that copy of \\"Lying Around Eating and Burping for Dummies\\" he ordered from the library.	2002-11-30
US	51752008	R2CQRQDJTUVYP5	0060952458	999665774	Simpsons Comics Wingding (Simpsons Comics Compilations)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Best of Simpsons Comics!	I have a dozen Simpsons comic books and Wingding is my favorite! Every comic is a hit and it starts off with the best Simpsons comic ever: \\"Don't Cry for Me Jebediah.\\"  Bart has to do a school essay on the town founder.  For once, Bart is motivated due to the prize for the top paper: a year's supply of Squishees (Mrs. Krabapal made out with Apu to get this prize).  Unable to find a new, exciting angle, Bart decides to create his own by hooking up an apparatus to make the Jebediah Springfield statue in the middle of town appear to cry.  The media circus kicks into high gear!  Town square becomes a haven for opportunistic vendors including Moe's \\"tear beer\\", Ned Flanders' \\"shroud of Jebediah\\" hankies, and Homer's \\"tear in a cube.\\" Bart can almost taste those free Squishees!<br />\\"The Artist Formerly Known as Bart\\":  The teen heartthrob of the month is touring his way through Springfield.  His name is Biff Westwood and he looks remarkably like Bart (why Lisa would have the hots for a kid who looks like her brother's twin is cause for further examination, but back to the summary...).  Biff wants to spend a day as a normal kid while Bart is always attracted to the wild side of life.  What if...<br />\\"Stand and Deliverance\\":  Bart is busted for using Principal Skinner's credit card to start a \\"School Shopping Network.\\"  His punishment is a \\"back to basics\\" camping trip led by Groundskeeper Willie.  Curiously, the only other camper is do-gooder Martin Prince (maybe that's the real punishment).  In one funny scene, Otto swerves his bus to avoid a raccoon (\\"I wouldn't wanna upset the balance of nature\\") only to start a forest fire in the process killing the raccoon from smoke inhalation.  On vacation, Sideshow Mel is found snorkeling and is abruptly sucked up by the park's airplane and dumped onto the fire (I've heard of this actually happening before).<br />\\"Little Big Mart\\":  Apu and Mr. Burns go into cahoots to start a Mega Kwik-E-Super Store.  Mr. Burns was impressed with Apu's business skills which include watering down the Squishee machine.<br />\\"Bart De Triomphe\\":  Bart finagles himself the grand prize in a Krusty Kroissants Kontest-A trip to Paris where he meets up with the two con-men from the TV episode \\"Crapes of Wrath\\" (breaking out of jail after being convicted of tainting wine with anti-freeze) and Sideshow Bob.<br />\\"Citizen Shame\\":  A comic from Reverend Lovejoy's Hellfire Comics (\\"God's favorite comic book\\").  The Rev. explains how a good boy can go bad.  The funniest part is that Bart writes sarcastic comments throughout the comic!	2002-11-30
US	51752008	R1S0DDQQ5MVTHG	0060952121	324797386	Simpsons Comics Strike Back	Books	5	3	3	N	N	More Simpson Fun Beyond the TV!	More super stories from the great characters of Springfield! Here's what this issue has to offer:<br />\\"A Trip to Simpson Mountain\\":  Grandpa tells a story of his childhood days before television that sounds oddly enough like a cross between The Waltons, Beverly Hills 90210, Leave It To Beaver, The Brady Bunch, and the Partridge Family (must be a coincidence).<br />\\"Kill-er Up With Regular\\":  A classic Itchy and Scratchy short from the \\"1930s\\".<br />\\"Waitresses in the Sky\\":  Patty and Selma lose their jobs at the DMV and end up living with the Simpsons.  Can they find the job of their dreams at Mr. Burns' airline (you'll love the insignia on the planes) or will they break under the pressure (actually, the \\"No Smoking\\" sign)?  Would make a hilarious T.V. episode.<br />\\"Apu's Incredible 96-Hour Shift (without Getting a Break)\\":  The legend is true, but not so impresive considering Apu didn't have a customer for 95 hours and 54 minutes of the famed shift.<br />\\"What's the Frequency Simpson\\":  Similar to the T.V. episode where Lisa and Bart co-anchor a kids' news program.  In this comic, Bart and Lisa take over a public access channel to start a new sensation: SimpTV.  SimpTV offers such entertaining and informative programs as \\"Geek Patrol\\" hosted by Martin Prince, \\"Bad Boy\\" starring Nelson Munz, and \\"In the Kitchen With Wiggum\\" where Ralph creates many tantalizing dishes involving paste.  The television elite of Springfield (aka Krusty the Klown, Troy McClure, Bumblebee Man, Kent Brockman, and Dr. Nick) try to shut the renegade channel down.<br />\\"Bumblebee Man in !Ay, Que Lastima!\\": Short about the trying personal life of the yellow and black striped character we thought we knew.<br />\\"The Dame and the Clown\\":  Dragnet take-off where Otto is Detective Friday and Moe helps Marge escape an abusive relationship to return to her true love (Homer the Sailor Man).<br />\\"Get Fatty\\":  One of the funniest of this book.  This comic has a topic similar to the T.V. show where Springfield is named the nation's fattest city.  In this comic, President Clinton plans to shape up the country's fattest town with the \\"worst cholesterol count in modern history.\\"  He sends his fitness ambassador Rainier Wolfcastle (aka McBain) to whip Springfield into shape.  The worst offenders must lose 10 pounds in two weeks or face the consequences.  Can they (or, more to the point, CAN HOMER) do it?<br />\\"The Quest for Yaz\\":  This comic continues the storyline started in the T.V. episode \\"Three Men and a Comic Book.\\"  Milhouse's dream is to own a 1973 Carl Yastzremski baseball card when he had big sideburns--but is Milhouse willing to steal to get it?	2002-11-14
US	51752008	R3H7QFZVKVFQED	1852867272	479968086	Simpsons Comics Simps-o-rama	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Turn that T.V. off, and Pick Up a Book!	Excellent comic book full of all the favorite Simpsons characters (Krusty, McBain, Kent Brockman, grandpa, the Flanders, etc.) including advertisements, Itchy & Scratchy shorts, and more!  Here's what's in this issue:<br />\\"Fallen Flanders\\"--Ned Flanders sitting on the couch in his underwear drinking beer and burping at the T.V.?  Ned Flanders spraypainting \\"For a Good Time, Call Maude\\" on the side of a building?  Ned Flanders stealing candy from a baby?  What's going on?!?  Bart and Lisa get help from McBain in this mystery which also continues the storyline started in \\"Dead to the Last Drop\\" in Simpsons Comics Spectacular.<br />\\"The Kwik-e and the Dead\\"--Go back to Springfield's frontier days when Mr. Burns owned \\"only half\\" the town and Joe Quimby's nickname was \\"Carbon.\\"<br />\\"Survival of the Fattest\\"--My favorite story in this book.  This plot could easily be a T.V. episode.  An environmental research biosphere comes to Springfield (at first, Homer thinks it's a \\"bimbosphere\\" strip joint).  After grueling tryouts (and Homer's cheating), the Simpsons find themselves in competition with the Flanders!<br />\\"Spare the Rod, Spoil the Grunt\\"--Principal Skinner defends his new \\"spanked straight\\" discipline policy by telling a tale of his Vietnam days.<br />\\"Give Me Merchandising or Give Me Death\\"--Comic book scouts steal Milhouse and Bart's ideas for a new superhero.  See how Bart uses some comic art trickery to get revenge.<br />\\"Rebel Without a Clutch\\"--A short from Jimbo's \\"Wedgie\\" comics.  Watch Jimbo hotwire a motorbike and create choas at a school art festival.<br />\\"To Heir is Homer\\"--Homer inherits 51% of the Duff Beer plant, and guess who owns the other 49%.  This story would also make an excellent T.V. episode.  See the source of Duff's unique taste, Duff Springs (closed by order of President Truman).<br />\\"Nostalgia Ain't What it Used to Be\\"--Grandpa and Jasper check out a \\"Collectorama\\" convention and can't believe what people would pay for a Lance MurdockSuicycle or a Larva Girl doll \\"with deluxe pupating action.\\"  By the way, if anyone has a Malibu Stacey doll with the party dress that converts to a radiation suit, Smithers is looking for one.	2002-10-28
US	51752008	R1NXSY6AHINVAV	0060951486	902906295	Simpsons Comics Spectacular (Simpsons Comics Compilations)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Another Simpsons Triumph!	If the Simpsons are not on TV when you need your fix, plop down in your easy chair and open up one of the hilarious jam-packed comic books.  Each book offers awesome full color illustrations along with bonus advertisements, shorts, etc.  Here's what you get in this book:<BR>\\"Be-Bop-Lisa\\"--Lisa ends up playing in a speed metal/jazz band with Otto creating a new musical sensation: \\"Spazz.\\" <BR> <BR>\\"The End of El Barto\\"--Police Chief Wiggum tells his story on how he finally caught the notorious graffiti vandal (or, so he thinks).<br />\\"The Greatest D'oh on Earth\\"--One of my favorites in this collection.  The circus is in town, but Bart is forbidden to go because he refused to do his chores.  Bart finagles the toadying Flanders boys into doing his chores for him (\\"Gutter cleaning's all the rage in the Holy Land\\") while he sneaks off to the circus.  Dressed like a clown, Bart ends up in a tiny clown car with Krusty (\\"You never get used to the smell\\").  One funny box has Krusty running out of the car clutching his back: \\"My lower lumbar is killing me.  Remind me to trade the clown car for a range rover.\\"  When Homer finds out Bart disobeyed him, the REAL show begins!  Homer's stupidity is hilarious in this one.<br />\\"Dead to the Last Drop\\"--McBain encounters the mob at a fundraiser and deals with them in his own unique way.  Krusty also makes an appearance in this one.<br />\\"I Shrink, Therefore I'm Small\\"--In this strip, we find out that Mr. Burns blames himself for causing the 1929 stock market crash when he gave off a horrendous burp moments before the panic began.  Says Burns, \\"From that point on, I have supressed my need to peptically vent\\" (that explains a lot, actually).  Now, that is something even Smithers didn't know!  Anyway, Homer is shrunken down in order to man a surgical pod that will be used to dislodge Mr. Burns' internal blockage (unbeknownst to Homer, of course).  Will Homer run this machine better than he runs Sector 7G at the nuclear power plant?  What do you think?<br />\\"Edna of the Congo\\"--Bart's teacher plays a jungle woman out to save the sacred Purple Puma from poachers (or is she just looking for a man?).<br />\\"The Purple Prose of Springfield\\"--Bart doctors Lisa's diary creating a new literary fad in Springfield.<br />\\"Asleep At the Well\\"--A short featuring Springfield's favorite drunk, Barney Gumble.  Find out what chief Wiggum means when he orders a glass of milk at Moe's.	2002-10-24
US	51752008	RYMEL64OB5DX1	0060950862	327722577	Simpsons Comics Extravaganza (Simpsons Comics Compilations)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Next Best Thing To The TV Show!!	I have a dozen Simpsons comic books and they all brim with comics, mock advertisements, top ten lists, Itchy and Scratchy shorts, etc. which sport that famous television series humor. Here's what awaits you in this issue:<br />\\"Amazing Collosal Homer\\": Mr. Burns' lab conducts a biological experiment on Homer causing him to grow into a giant. Will Homer's love of donuts and beer--previous source of his normal girth--be the ironic key to his recovery? As Marge says, \\"Thank heavens for his super-stretch underwear.\\"<br />\\"The Collector\\": Homer plays a wealthy loner who lives in a mansion with his prized possession--\\"the world's greatest library of comic books.\\" This story is very intriguing and a little spooky. Find out why the Collector goes insane in the end.<br />\\"Cool Hand of Bart\\": Bart attends a \\"Scared Spitless\\" anti-deliquency program at the local prison and finds himself on a chain gang with his nemesis Sideshow Bob! What happens when Bob escapes authorities with a reluctant Bart going along for the ride? Why does Bob end up wearing an \\"I Love Krusty\\" cap? Fans of the TV show will get a kick out of seeing copies of the Springfield Review of Books in Bob's cell.<br />\\"My Sister, My Homewrecker\\": Selma making out with Homer!?! It has to be seen to be believed!<br />\\"The Perplexing Puzzle of the Springfield Puma\\": Many suspects are named when Springfield elementary's mascot turns up missing, but sometimes it's the one you least suspect. Martin Prince does his \\"Sopranos\\" imitation in this one.<br />\\"Krusty Agent of K.L.O.W.N.\\": Springfield's favorite clown tries out an idea for a new TV show. This short includes an interesting mating ritual between Krusty and secretary Miss. Pennycandy.<br />\\"It's in the Cards\\": This story could easily be a TV episode. It starts with a buzzer going off at the Nuclear Power Plant. Lenny, Carl, and Homer scream with terror--their caramel swirl cake almost melted in the microwave. Then the gang sneek off to an Isotopes game after Homer tapes a photo of himself working over Mr. Burns' surveillance camera (upside down, of course). After Homer rushes back to beat the clock, he inadvertently turns off the power to a frozen food warehouse which leads to the plot of the story: the elementary school teachers are out with food poisoning and Bart and Lisa are stuck with substitutes (Lisa's sub is a far-right conservative).<br />\\"The Gnarly Adventures of Busman\\": Finally, you get a sample of Otto's comic strip introduced in the television episode \\"Three Men and a Comic Book.\\"	2002-10-13
US	51752008	R30TON76IVS8PW	0415915198	979236076	Religion and Justice in the War Over Bosnia	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Interesting look at Just War Theory but Weak on Nationalism	In Religion and Justice in the War over Bosnia, editor G. Scott Davis compiles essays by five professors of religious ethics who consider the current Bosnian conflict within the schema of the \\"just war\\" theory.  This \\"just war\\" tradition, as described by noted theorists Paul Ramsey and Michael Walzer, outlines the \\"just\\" reasons for engaging in warfare, and the proper manner in which war should be conducted.  The former includes proper authority, just cause, just intent, last resort, and reasonable hope of success.  The latter pertains to the use of proportion and discrimination in the prosecution of warfare (16).  <BR>Davis admits that, before undertaking this project, he \\"had scant knowledge of the cultural and political history of Eastern Europe, much less of the Balkans\\" (viii).  Davis assumed the role of a student in preparation for this enterprise by consulting such works as Fred Singleton's \\"A Short History of the Yugoslav People\\" and Barbara Jelavich's two-volume history on the Balkans. Two convictions on the part of Davis enters into this work--a distrust of nationalism, and an insistence that the West (particularly, the United States) should intervene militarily to end the hostilities against the Bosnian Muslims.<br />Michael Sells' contribution to the study, \\"Religion, History, and Genocide in Bosnia-Herzegovina,\\" is a critical account on Western views towards the Balkans.  First, Sells establishes that war tactics on the part of the Bosnian Serbs is, in fact, genocide.  The \\"unjust\\" intent of the Bosnian Serbs is to destroy the cultural memory of the Bosnian Muslims (26).  Second, Sells analyzes the prevailing attitude of the West towards the war in Bosnia. Sells cites an appearance by then president Bill Clinton on Larry King Live during which Clinton referred to the hostilities in Bosnia as \\"age-old antagonisms\\" which \\"go back five hundred years, some would say almost a thousand years\\" (23). <BR>Robert Kaplan's \\"Balkan Ghosts\\" is criticized for repopularizing the idea that the Balkan peoples and cultures are \\"unamenable to civilized standards of behavior and locked in unchanging, perpetual tribal hatreds\\" (40).  This belief that the Balkan peoples will always be involved in warfare is coupled with the idea that \\"there are no angels in the conflict\\" (41).  According to Sells, the denial that civilized society is possible in the Balkans, and the prevailing conclusion that all sides in the Bosnian conflict are guilty causes the West to ignore the practices of cultural genocide against Muslim populations.<br />In \\"Nationalism and Self-Determination:  The Bosnian Tragedy,\\"  Jean Bethke Elshtain explains another reason for the lack of direct action by the West to stop atrocities in Bosnia.  The problem is that the United Nations, for a time, did not recognize Bosnia as a sovereign nation.  According to Elshtain, \\"the United Nations Charter [only] makes provision for response to violation of the territory of a sovereign state\\" (46).  To Elshtain, this stand is unacceptable.  He also criticizes the West for regarding international conflicts with \\"national security interests, first and foremost, in mind\\" (47).  Using the \\"just war\\" theory, both principles and interests would be considered in assessing whether intervention in a given conflict is or is not warranted.  As Elshtain maintains, \\"if our [United States] policy makers had been guided by just war principles, my hunch is that, under the Nuremberg precedent, genocidal political aggression cannot be permitted to stand\\" (49).  Like Davis, Elshtain notes the problem of nationalism in Bosnia and recommends a \\"middle way\\" between multicultural absolutists, who insist that different identities cannot mix, and civic pluralists, who preach universal solidarity (50-3).  Elshtain, however, does not explain the ways in which this \\"middle way\\" can be achieved.<br />James Turner Johnson, in \\"War for Cities and Noncombatant Immunity in the Bosnian Conflict,\\" describes the elementof \\"double effect\\" in the \\"just war\\" theory.  The idea of \\"double effect\\" asserts that, although deliberate and direct attacks on noncombatants is considered unjust, noncombatants can be legitimately harmed or killed if they are the unintentional victims during an assault on a military target.  Considering the war in Bosnia, Johnson uses an important example to illustrate the weakness of  the \\"double effect\\" idea in protecting noncombatants from unjust harm.  In Sarajevo, Bosnian Serbs would cut off the water supplies to the civilian Muslim populations.  As the inhabitants left their homes to attain water from a limited number of public taps (most likely, near military institutions), the Bosnian Serbs would fire upon them.  According to Johnson: \\"If the besiegers employ means of attack that are by nature indiscriminate or disproportionate in their effects, then I am less willing to grant the double effect excuse, and if these means are chosen so as to increase the burden of possible harm on the noncombatants present and may be judged so because they are likely to have their primary effect against these and not the combatant defenders, then double effect reasoning emphatically does not apply\\" (84). Johnson maintains that international law, which establishes civilized war tactics, does not sufficiently address the problems associated with siege warfare.<br />Unlike the other essays, which condemn the West for its lack of response to the Bosnian conflict, G. Scott Davis' contribution includes a criticism of the actions employed by the West.  In  \\"Bosnia, the United States, and the Just War Tradition,\\" Davis charges the United States and the European Community with violating the \\"just war\\" theory through their arms embargo.  The purpose of the embargo imposed in September 1991 was to minimize the violence and contain the war in Croatia.  The embargo, however, shifted the balance in favor of the Serbs, who inherited munitions and material from the Yugoslav National Army.Davis maintains that the embargo, which favored Serbia, \\"should have been particularly offensive given the conduct of the Serbs, who had already displayed a willingness to attack civilian targets and to condone atrocities\\" (113).  Davis concluded that the proper response of the West would have been to lift the embargo and supply aid directly to the Bosnian government (114).<br />In the final essay, John Kelsay condemns the Western media for portraying the Muslim culture as barbarian and hostile to modernizing influences.  In \\"Bosnia and the Muslim Critique of Modernity,\\" Kelsay compares the Bosnian Muslims' situation to that of the Jews during the Second World War.  Kelsay uses the observations of Richard L. Rubenstein to explain that, by disregarding the Muslim community as being incapable of modernization, the West defines the Bosnian Muslims as \\"outside the universe of moral obligation\\" (125).  Thus \\"the United Nations, the European Community, and NATO all function as 'silent partners' in the efforts of the Serbians to create an 'ethically pure' region for themselves in Bosnia-Herzegovina\\" (125).<br />By using the \\"just war\\" theory to analyze the conflict in Bosnia, this compilation is an important work.  It is critical to have a criterion whereby \\"just\\" or \\"unjust\\" war practices can be clearly defined.  Terms, such as \\"genocide\\" and \\"unjust,\\" are often used so loosely that their meanings become ambiguous and less useful. Zachery T. Irwin, who reviewed the book for Library Journal (November 15, 1996, p. 75), criticized the analogy for a lack of a conclusion.  This reviewer disagrees.  The conclusion of this work is that, through an understanding of the \\"just war\\" theory, the West should become more directly involved in stopping the atrocities committed in Bosnia.  The argument itself, however, is weak.  All contributors have little regard for nationalist feelings in the Balkans and elsewhere.  Nationalism is important for producing a healthy identity for a people and instilling in them a sense of dignity and self-worth which can prompt an oppressed people to fight for their place in the world.  Certainly, there are negative aspects of nationalism, however, Elshtain's insistence on retooling nationalist feelings to find a \\"middle way\\" seems very nave.  The contributors consider the Bosnian conflict as would many international journalists.  Such journalists often take a global stand on many issues.  Such a stand, however, underestimates the power and importance of nationalist aspirations which can determine whether a conflict, no matter how morally \\"unjust,\\" warrants the risk of Western lives.	2002-09-25
US	51752008	R2BGB8LFBD9LU	0738868833	541717201	Zap	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Still Searching for the Ultimate Guide to Atari	Being an Atari 2600 fanatic during my youth and a collector today, I was eager to purchase this book. I wanted to read only about Atari--not about Nintendo and other more modern systems that most video game books get into--so this little book seemed the way to go. I was very disappointed after reading it, however. I was hoping to read about the different games Atari put out. I know which games I liked, but which ones were the most popular and which were disappointments? I was intrigued by a question on the back cover: \\"Who decided the home version of Pac-Man was good enough to release?\\" (the main reason I bought the book). Alas, this question is never answered!  In fact, the home version of Pac-Man (as well as other games) is not really discussed at all! Only E.T. and Raiders of the Lost Ark are mentioned more than in passing because they did not sell well and were part of the reason Warner's stock went down.  There is also no mention of the landmark game Adventure.  Instead, Cohen concentrates on the characters in the business (the engineers, financiers, and marketing people). The parts I found to be the most interesting to me were on the origins of Pong, and the effect Colecovision and Intellivision had on Atari's dominance in the home video game market. <br />On the plus side, the book was very well-researched with a bibliography (mainly periodicals up to 1983) that is quite valuable. The author also offered excerpts from interviews with inside people at Atari. Cohen also seemed to have a firm grasp of computer technology. What takes away from this research is the style of writing, which sometimes seems like that of a college student. The book is not very focused, often jumping around to different subjects along with separate quotes added within the text. Cohen also repeated himself (sometimes almost word for word) throughout the book. Many paragraphs were spent describing the way principal actors at Atari dressed (i.e. like a hippie or a polished businessman). Iagree with the previous reviewers that this book had and, unfortunately, still has a myriad of editing problems. The last line of the book even reads \\"Printed in the USA 1896\\"! It also would have been nice to see an additional reflection chapter that would take the book beyond 1983. <br />Still, if you are interested in Atari (especially on a business and marketing level), this book is probably the main source out there right now.	2002-08-25
US	51752008	R1H1M60O2NGTED	0664224199	999679637	The Gospel According to The Simpsons:  The Spiritual Life of the World's Most Animated Family	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	A Good Look at Religious Content in the Simpsons	My mom's church had a seminar on religious content in the Andy Griffith Show a few years back.  I told her that she should suggest doing a similar study on the Simpsons, which I believed touched on more religious issues than the Andy Griffith Show could ever come close to (such issues were way to controversial for the 1960s).  I told her about the episode where Bart believes there is no such thing as a soul and &quot;sells&quot; his soul to Milhouse.  I described the episode where Rev. Lovejoy loses interest in his profession only to see his congregation rushing to Marge because she would listen to their problems.  I told her about the fundamentalist character Ned Flanders and Krusty the Clown who had a falling out with his father, a rabbi, and on and on to no avail.  My mom felt her fellow churchgoers would be offended by such an uncouth program as the Simpsons.  Low and behold, I find this book and buy it for her as a Mother's Day gift(the Simpsons probably do go to church more often than any other TV family), and I think she finally gets it.	2002-07-28
US	51752008	R3JS6YKNMNQYQ7	0812905814	805622279	The Nuremberg mind: The psychology of the Nazi leaders (Monograph - Brooklyn College of the City University of New York, Research Center for Interdisciplinary Applications of Psychoanalysis ; 1)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Interesting Insight into the Minds of Nazi Leaders	The Nuremberg Mind gives detailed accounts of a series of Rorschach tests given to the imprisoned Nazi leaders while they awaited trial at Nuremberg.  The ink blot tests were administered by Dr. G. M. Gilbert (author of the excellent book Nuremberg Diary) and Florence Miale.  All comments given by each defendant while he was examining the cards (including a running talley of the time that had past between each comment) is included in the study.  The book also includes color images of the 10 ink blot cards used (I was surprised to find out that several of the ink blots included designs in red, blue, green, yellow, and orange).<br />I admit that I am skeptical about such psychological studies, and I did find certain weakness in this book.  First, previous knowledge of the grim deeds of the Nazi leaders can certainly have an influence on the final analyses of their Rorschach tests.  Gilbert was a Jewish American and, understandably, may have had some biases when conducting the examinations.  After obtaining responses to Card X from Reichsbank President Walther Funk, for example, Gilbert suggested &quot;that last picture might have been a concentration camp&quot; (p. 79). Another example is exhibited in Miale's analysis of Hermann Goering's interpretation of Card VI as a bedroom rug:  &quot;[Goering's] capacity for warmth and understanding is used by him for obtaining sensuous pleasure rather than for developing real human relationships&quot; (p. 92).  In another case, Hans Fritzsche (a radio propagandist and hardly a big-time Nazi who would later denounce the regime) was labeled a &quot;blind, torn psychopath&quot; by Miale because the radio broadcaster saw a torn map in Card VII.  Preconceived notions about the personalities they were analyzing probably had some influence on such responses.<br />More revealing are the patterns of responses by the subjects Hans Frank, Funk, Goering, Joachim von Ribbentrop, and Ernst Kaltenbrunner.  Frank (the &quot;Butcher of Poland&quot;) made several references to alcohol in his responses.  Funk made startling sexual references during his tests.  Goering made quick and confident responses to the cards and became impatient when certain areas of the cards did not fit his designs &quot;snapping his forefinger at the three red spots [on Card III] as though to brush them off&quot; (p. 87).  Ribbentrop and Kaltenbrunner gave the least number of responses to the cards.  The former quickly gave one response to each card or would simply reject them, the latter took a very long time on each card and, in some cases, would contradict his own responses (quite understandable from a man conditioned to follow orders).  Such patterns revealed a great deal about the subjects' personalities, much more than did Miale's or Gilbert's isolated comments.<br />I believe that the Rorschach test can be useful in an analysis on one's personality.  The test, however, is useless if the impartiality of the examiner is in question.  It is possible for the Rorschach analysis to reveal more about the person conducting the test than about the subject himself.  There are no universal guidelines for interpreting a subject's response and thus an examiner may--however unintentionally--introduce his own thoughts  and preconceptions to the study.  What saves the usefulness of this study is that the defendant's comments are printed verbatim which allows the reader to do his own analysis and come to his own conclusions about the top personalities in the Third Reich.	2002-01-06
US	51752008	R1G0RG7XM9ME9V	0451192036	730789518	Black Like Me	Books	5	107	110	N	N	One of the Most Important Landmark Works in History	John Howard Griffin offered one of the most important contributions to the Civil Rights movement when his work Black Like Me was published in 1960.  Griffin approached his study on race relations in the South by asking a very poignant question:  &quot;If a white man became a Negro in the Deep South, what adjustments would he have to make?.&quot;  To answer this question, Griffin shaved his head and had his skin temporarily darkened by medical treatments and stain in order to travel through parts of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Georgia as a black man. <BR> <BR>Griffin had a deep understanding of discrimination even before he began this ambitious project.  As a medic in the French Resistance Army, Griffin helped evacuate Austrian Jews away from the advancing Nazis.  During the Second World War, Griffin lost his sight and was forced to live with this disability for over ten years.  By 1959, Griffin was a published author and a specialist on race relations.  Despite such credentials Griffin &quot;really knew nothing of the Negro's real problem.&quot;  Only by becoming black did Griffin understand what it was like to live as a second class citizen in &quot;the land of the free.&quot;<BR>As a black man, Griffin described the variations and similarities of race relations in different areas of the South.  Although some states were more &quot;enlightened&quot; than others, blatant acts of racism were found almost everywhere Griffin went.  <br />In Alabama, where Martin Luther King first introduced passive resistance, Griffin endured the hate stares from whites and observed that even graduates from Tuskegee Institute would not be allowed to climb the social ladder in the South because, &quot;whites cannot lose to a traditionally servant class.&quot;  Finally, while traveling to the otherwise enlightened city of Atlanta, the simple act of a bus driver saying &quot;Watch your step&quot; as his passengers filed out was only reserved for whites.<BR> <BR>Even more interesting than these experiences was the way in which Griffin was allowed to converse with blacks and whites on racial matters.  Understandably, blacks were highly suspicious of whites and were often inclined to play &quot;the stereo-typed role of the 'good Negro'&quot; when around whites to survive in white southern society.  As a &quot;black&quot; man, Griffin enjoyed a rare glimpse of how blacks really regarded segregation beyond the white propaganda.  He also discovered the ways in which blacks assisted and supported each other against the perils of racism.  In other cases, Griffin observed blacks who were ashamed of their race and who would denounce other blacks for their darker skin or shabby clothes.  As a &quot;black&quot; man, Griffin also saw a side of whites that would otherwise be hidden if he had met them as a fellow white man.  His experiences with whites while hitchhiking through Mississippi are particularly intriguing.<br />Despite his experiences, Griffin was surprisingly fair in his analysis.  While the reader may despise the hate-filled whites in his story, Griffin did not stoop to the racist's level by denying them their humanity.  Instead, Griffin made it a point to see the whites in other roles-as a parent, grandparent, church leader, and loyal neighbor.  He also realized that whites who may have been sympathetic towards their African American neighbors, were pressured by southern society to continue segregation. In his epilogue, Griffin was even critical of fellow white freedom fighters who often failed to consult with black community leaders on the race issue.<BR>   <BR>Griffin's work was a landmark for his time, but weaknesses in his study were present. Griffin visited the larger cities of the South; however, a comparison of race relations between the major cities and the countryside may have created a more complete study as would a visit to other states in the South.  A better explanation was needed regarding Griffin's practice of alternating hisrole as a black man and a white man by scrubbing the stain off his skin.  At first, the reader may assume that the author could no longer handle the discrimination and longed to enter the South as a first class citizen again.  Later, Griffin maintained that he was studying how the reactions of blacks and whites reversed themselves as he changed his skin color.  Both reasons are valid; however, if a need to be white again was the primary explanation than an important point was made:  An educated and worldly white man could barely survive in six weeks what a black person must endure every moment of his life.	2001-10-09
US	51752008	R4GOBU6XADQTO	0060920203	406036314	Hitler: A Study in Tyranny	Books	3	63	69	N	N	Straight Forward, Comprehensive Study	In &quot;Hitler: A Study in Tyranny,&quot; Alan Bullock stated that, as an author, he has no axe to grind.  He adhered to that statement.  Bullock offered a very balanced and plausible account of Hitler's life atempting to understand the dictator not as a demon but as a human being.<br />Readers interested in tantalizing controversy will be disappointed with this book.  Bullock chose not to assert blame for such things as the Reichstag fire.  Bullock dismissed the popular claim that Hitler changed his name from Schicklgruber (man, I got tired of my teachers reiterating that bit of misinformation) and the myth that Hitler resorted to astrology in decision-making.  As for Geli Raubel, Bullock finds her best to be left as &quot;a mystery.&quot;  Bullock took a conservative stance in his analysis focusing only on the known fact's about Hitler's life.<br />Bullock offers a thorough study of Hitler's days in Vienna before the First World War and the ways in which this experience formed his political views.  Hitler is presented not as the originator of future Nazi principles but as a product of the anti-rational, anti-intellectual, and anti-Semetic ideas that had been circulating in Europe for the previous hundred years.  His understanding of propaganda, oratory skills, and pratical exposure to street politics helped Hitler gain a following.  Ultimately, it was Hitler's determination that prompted him to turn down enticing offers of political position by Franz von Papen and Bruening that were less than what he sought:  the Chancellory.  During the Second World War, Hitler's &quot;warlord&quot; image was transformed:  &quot;the human being disappears, absorbed into the historical figure of the Fuehrer.&quot;  Bullock also pointed out that this devotion to power led eventually to Hitler's downfall. <br />Although this book may be a little burdensome for pleasure reading (I doubt I will read it again), it is a very readable biography that would be appropriate for the collegestudent who needs to learn places, events, etc.  The lack of an index in this edition does pose a problem when one is trying to find information, however.  Another criticism I have is its title &quot;A Study in Tyranny.&quot;  I was expecting the work to go more into an analysis of Hitler's tyrannical personality and the susceptibility of the German people to it.  Maybe I was expecting a little psychology.  This book, however, is a straight foward biography with not a lot of interpretation.  The works of Ian Kershaw may be consulted if a reader wants more depth.	2001-10-05
US	51752008	R3O28XBYOM43SC	0961399317	434857066	Weaving With Wheat	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Fun Guide to Wheat Weaving	I bought this book for my mom and she is very pleased with the easy-to-read directions.  She has made 6 different decorative hangings.  She likes the illustrations and was able to combine various designs to make larger, more complex hangings.	2001-10-03
US	51752008	R2LA579P4WSNZO	0195103262	874448279	Karl Marx: His Life and Environment	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Interesting But Difficult Work	Isaiah Berlin, in his work &quot;Karl Marx,&quot; concentrates on the philosophical development of one of the most influential social thinkers in modern history.  Through an examination on Marx's critical analyses of the ideas of his intellectual contemporaries (including Feurbach, Fourier, Saint-Simon, and Proudhon), Berlin explores the many influences that helped shape Marxian thought.  Although Marx's immediate successors minimized the impact of Hegel upon Marx's ideas, Berlin maintains that Hegel's influence was essential for the formation of Marx's socio-economic philosophy.<br />I read this book for a college course and found it very challenging.  Often I would have to read over passages several times to even begin to understand the gist of it (and maybe not even then).  Of course, the subject matter is very complex.  One just beginning to study Marx may want to seek out a more simplified overview of Marxian thought first before tackling this one.	2001-10-01
US	51752008	R35AN4W1GG1IW5	0521566681	545527935	Charles Darwin: The Man and his Influence (Cambridge Science Biographies)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Enjoyable Bio on One of the Most Influential Men in History	In his biography of Charles Darwin, Peter Bowler dispels many of the misconceptions surrounding Darwin's immediate influence on the scientific world.  Bowler argues that Darwin's theory did not spark a scientific revolution which caused a majority of scientists to abandon their former views on natural history.  Bowler explains that Darwin was not the first naturalist to advance a theory of evolution.  Most importantly, Bowler reveals that Darwin's theory was not accepted blindly by the scientific community.  In fact, many of Darwin's most faithful supporters found scientific weaknesses in his theory.  As Bowler states, \\"Darwin's greatest achievement was to force the majority of his contemporaries to reconsider their attitudes towards the basic idea of evolution\\" (p. 128).    Bowler's book was the first biography I have read of Darwin, and I found it very enjoyable.  It is one of the college books that I have kept.  I definitely recommend it to any reader interested in Darwin's work and influence.	2001-10-01
US	51752008	R2L9S5I3RI87KT	0801854369	416845495	On the Edge of the Cliff: History, Language and Practices (Parallax: Re-visions of Culture and Society)	Books	1	7	14	N	N	A Chore	This book was assigned to my graduate historiography class a few years ago and I found it to be the most frustrating book I've ever tried to read (\\"tried\\" being the operative word). Most of the sentences are so long and complex one must read it over and over again and almost word by word to get some meaning from it. That presents a difficult task when a student has mountains of other material to read. It is actually a rather short book, but I dreaded the duty of opening it up and mucking through the long, complex sentences. At first I thought it was a problem with translation, but translator Lydia Cochrane explained in her notes on translation that the French version was just as challenging.<br />The part of the book that I did find interesting was Chartier's discussion of Michel Foucault's views on the use of \\"origin\\" in historical works and Foucault's belief that forces in history respond to haphazard conflicts. I remember quoting a 75-word sentence in my term paper (my computer kept warning me of a run-on), since I certainly was unable to paraphrase. <br />Those readers who have spent decades reading historical works and would welcome the challenge may find something in \\"On the Edge of the Cliff\\" on which to chew. Others, like myself, who are not prepared for such an effort and who believe that clarity in presenting one's ideas is almost as important as the ideas themselves will probably want to jump off a cliff after opening this book.	2001-10-01
US	51752008	RJJ1LKS7ELICL	0807811394	235871822	Judgment on Nuremberg: American Attitudes toward the Major German War-Crime Trials	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Unique Study of the Nuremberg Trial Through American Eyes	William Bosch offers a unique study of the Nuremberg Trial.  He examines the attitudes of various groups in America regarding such subjects as the legality of the trial, its purpose, and its predicted legacy. The book includes a tremendous amount of research with many lengthy footnotes and an exhaustive bibliography of books, periodicals, newspapers, documents, and letters.  The groups considered were: American policy makers, international and domestic attorneys, congressional leaders, religious leaders, historians, foreign affairs writers, military officers, behavioral scientists, and the American public at large.  His results are valuable albeit not terribly surprising.<br />In addition, Bosch also extends his research to the Vietnam war.  He examines whether or not Nuremberg principles should be used in the trials of Vietnam soldiers who disobey supreme commands or if two American pilots captured in northern Vietnam should be tried for war crimes by Ho Chi Minh's court.  By noting the relationship between Nuremberg and Vietnam, Bosch demonstrates that the Nuremberg Trial was not just an event left to the past but is an event that has a significant influence on present and future issues regarding international military law.<br />If you are interested in this subject, I highly recommend seeking out this book.  It is very well written and contains a mountain of valuable information on American attitudes toward the Nuremberg Trial (the trial being undoubtedly dominated by American ideals).  I have written several college papers on the Nuremberg Trial and this book has proved an invaluable source.	2001-10-01
US	51752008	R5R8543QZYG85	0520029054	913474062	The Indispensable Enemy: Labor and the Anti-Chinese Movement in California	Books	3	17	21	N	N	California Anti-Chinese Movement Traced to Jacksonian Times	In &quot;The Indispensable Enemy,&quot; Alexander Saxton presents a broad study of American ideological history and an intricate examination of the California political system to further a better understanding of the anti-Chinese movement in California from the 1860s to 1902.  According to Saxton, Chinese workers were &quot;indispensable&quot; to California for two reasons.  First, the Chinese provided an important source of cheap labor for California industries.  Second, the Chinese aided the labor movement in California (albeit unintentionally) by being the subject of the issue on which the majority of white workers could agree: the anti-Chinese issue.  Saxton examines American ideology in the early nineteenth century to determine the roots of the anti-Chinese movement.<br />Alexander Saxton offers a comprehensive study on the ideological origins of the anti-Chinese movement, the political importance of the issue, and the issues's future expansion to include the Japanese.  The Jacksonian ideas of nationalism and racial superiority provide a clear foundation for understanding American attitudes towards African Americans and, later, Californian attitutudes towards the Chinese.  Moreover, Saxton emphasizes the psychological and ideological reasons for the reactions against the Chinese instead of economic reasons more commonly used by historians.  By not relying on the economic motivation for anti-Chinese demonstrations, Saxton is able to distinguish the persecution endured by the Chinese from the persecutions endured by other ethnic groups, like the Irish and Germans.  Unfortunately, Saxton's main points often get lost in the maze of comments about social, intellectual, and political history as well as a detailed chronological description of California political affairs.  A more focused study on the anti-Chinese movement would help to underline his main points for the reader.<br />Saxton relies primarily on primary sources for his work such as newspapers, labor publications, and memoirs. Saxton, however, does deomonstrate an awareness of the limitations of such materials.  Saxton also uses his sources appropriately.  For example, Saxton does not include a chart on the number of Chinese workers in various occupations (as calculated by the Trades Assembly) as accurate statistical data.  Saxton states that the chart is meant to show &quot;how trade unionists viewed the [labor] situation in 1881-1882&quot; (170).<br />One main problem with Saxton's study is that he does not explain the actions of the labor unions from the point of view of the Chinese,  He does not mention any Chinese leaders in California or the reactions of leaders in their homeland.  In a couple of cases, Saxton does hint at a Chinese backlash.  For exapmple, Saxton describes Chinatown in San Francisco as a fortress protecting the residents from outside threats.  In other cases, however, the Chinese are vaguely described as passive recipients of persecution (for example, the Chinese did not offer any protest against their forced removal from Eureka and Seattle).  A closer examination of the Chinese side would make &quot;The Indispensable enemy&quot; a more complete work.	2001-09-30
US	51752008	R1YNBJ3WF8B9SX	0195089243	518925845	Creating a Female Dominion in American Reform, 1890-1935	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Unique Look at Progressive Era Reform to the New Deal	In &quot;Creating a Female Dominion in American Reform,&quot; Robyn Muncy described a &quot;continuity of reform activities among America's middle-class, [Protestant] women&quot; between the Progressive era and the New Deal.  Muncy explained that, by reconciling traditional female roles with professionalization, these women reformers were able to create a &quot;female dominion&quot; in the filed of child welfare.  Interestingly, this &quot;dominion&quot; was dismantled after the child welfare movement achieved its far-reaching success in New Deal legislation.<br />Muncy presented an innovative and fair account of female participation in the Progressive movement.  Unlike many historians who concluded the Progresive era with the end of the First World War, Muncy traced the activities of women reformers to the New Deal.  Muncy also recognized the existence of class, ethnic, and racial tensions between reformers and the women they attempted to assist.  Muncy, however, failed to cite any conflicts between the demands of the female patrons and the goals of the professional social workers.  The laywomen who funded the work of the &quot;female dominion&quot; must have had significant influence over the acitivities of the reformers.  Muncy expressed disappointment that the reformers did not open doors to other women, particularly to women who were mothers.  Muncy, however, may be analyzing the social worker's Victorian ideas regarding motherhood and child-rearing from a post-World War II perspective.  The &quot;working mother&quot; concept is a fairly recent phenomenon which, most likely, was not considered during the Progressive period.  Finally, Muncy's account of the female reform movement may be too narrow.  She followed the careers of a specific coterie of women while possibly ignoring female reform movements which operated outside the realm of Muncy's model of female Progressives.  Otherwise, Muncy's work offered a convincing argument that continuity between the Progressive era and the New Deal existed through the &quot;female dominion&quot; in child welfare.	2001-09-30
US	51752008	RGR3G1B3Q4WAD	025320416X	746848966	The Transplanted: A History of Immigrants in Urban America (Interdisciplinary Studies in History)	Books	4	51	52	N	N	Intersting &amp; Convincing Rebuttal to Handlin's &quot;The Uprooted&quot;	John Bodnar's &quot;The Transplanted&quot; is a broad interpretive study of how immigrants in America endured the &quot;swirl of interaction&quot; between economic and societal forces by providing order and stability to their lives.  Bodnar begins with an analysis of the situations immigrants faced in their homelands, beginning around the 1830s, and ties these old world experiences with experiences faced in America up to 1930.  In large part, Bodnar's study is a reaction to Oscar Handlin's &quot;The Uprooted.&quot;  In this work, Handlin argued that immigrants were victimized by their transatlantic migration as the institutions they held most dear--property, religion, family, and tradition--were destroyed or rendered irrelevent.  Bodnar, however, counters this argument by maintaining that immigrants were not forced to passively abandon their traditions by dominant American influences.  Immigrants, in fact, were prepared for their migration from experiences at home and resisted societal, religious, and political pressures when such pressures threatened the economic and social stability in their lives.<br />Bodnar's work is very impressive in that he takes historical evidence about the lives of immigrants in America and applies it to interpretations offered by other historians (in particular, Oscar Handlin).  Bodnar is thus able to mount a convincing argument against common beliefs about American immigrants.  Bodnar also explains to the reader that the subject of American immigration is highly complex.  Various groups of people emigrated to America for various reasons and had different experiences after their arrival.  The immigrant experience was not homogeneous save for two points: their interrelationship with capitalism and their need to provide for their own welfare and that of their family-household.  Certain details about immigrant behavior are explained too simply, however.  For example, Bodnar notes that the reason the lower classes in the homeland did not emigrate was because they could not afford to do so.  Could there also be other reasons?  Perhaps these lower classes were more attached to their homeland and were afraid of the unfamiliar.  Perhaps they were unaware of the possible benefits of emigration and were also ignorant of how one could leave the homeland.<br />European immigrants are the focus of this study.  Japanese, Chinese, and Mexican groups are also discussed but not in as much detail.  A more thorough examination of non-European groups, particularly the Chinese, would make &quot;The Transplanted&quot; a more complete study. What is more, the study focuses on the male experience and neglects the reactions of female immigrants.  This omission seems odd considering the date of this study (1985). Finally, the work may be burdened by the numerous and lengthy examples Bodnar offers.  For example, one-quarter of the chapter on church and society is devoted to two examples of the exploits of two religious leaders.  Otherwise, Bodnar's &quot;The Transplanted&quot; offers a convincing argument that the American immigrant had more understanding and control of their situation than what may have been previously thought by many historians.	2001-09-30
US	51752008	RAFLKO02WEO19	0809001047	380425119	The Search for Order, 1877-1920	Books	3	71	76	N	N	A &quot;Revolution in Values&quot; Thoroughly Explained	In &quot;The Search for Order,&quot; Robert Wiebe provides perhaps the first unifying overview of the American Progressive period.  Beginning with the Reconstruction era, Wiebe presents the United States as &quot;a nation of loosely connected islands.&quot;  The economic panic of 1873 began what Wiebe describes as as a &quot;soul searching&quot; period for these homogenous, stable, primarily Protestant &quot;island communities.&quot;  America was noticeably changing from simple, locally-oriented communities guided by small town ethics to complex, interdependent societies seemingly controlled by distant and impersonal forces.  Wiebe explains the ways in which Americans sought to regain some sense of order as this rapidly changing nation rumbled through the first decades of the twentieth century.<br />A &quot;revolution in values&quot; took place during this &quot;search for order.&quot;  Wiebe traces a pattern of &quot;bureaucratization&quot; in such diverse areas as science, philosophy, business, education, journalism, law, medicine, and social work (although Wiebe neglects the influence of arts and technology).  A new middle class emerged as certain occupations such as law, medicine, and teaching became professionalized.  Journalism became more scientific.  Social workers began to establish their distinct field.  &quot;Idealists&quot; and &quot;utopianists&quot; advocated the idea of progress by stages.  A &quot;business unionism&quot; developed establishing a set of values for organized labor and carrying &quot;the obligation that union executives become experts in their particular industry&quot; (125).  Factories turned to scientific management.  With the establishment of the American Farm Burea, even farmers allowed their former image as &quot;the people&quot; to fade in favor of an agricultural business image.  Such bureaucratic solutions were also attempted on an international level with the League of Nations (curiously, foreign policy makers seemed quite confident of America's superior place in the world despite domestic confusion).  In other words, when the new middle class joined the Progressive movement, reform had altered its meaning from results to procedures.<br />The success of this bureaucratic integration was made evident by the ability of the nation to mobilize for the First World War.  However, as Wiebe maintains, the successes of the Progressive movement actually helped lead to its downfall.  Achievements such as financial reform following the panic of 1907, workmen's compensation laws, and policies under Woodrow Wilson's New Freedom &quot;dulled the reforming urge&quot; (212).  Former Progressives began to defend the status quo as the nation entered the 1920s.  What is more, the Progressives had &quot;constructed just an approach to reform, mistaking it for the finished product&quot; (223).  Although Wiebe does not fully explain the reasons Americans turned to bureaucratic trends in their &quot;search for order&quot; and is often guilty of over-generalizing, over-intellectualizing, and inundating his work with an excessive use of abstractions, he does make a strong case that there was a &quot;revolution in values&quot; during the Progressive era.  These values of Progressivism are with us today, including an active executive begun during the administrations of Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson.ident of America's superior place in the world despite domestic confusion).  In other words, when the new middle class joined the Progressive movement, reform had altered its meaning from results to procedures.<br />The success of this bureaucratic integration was made evident by the ability of the nation to mobilize for the First World War.  However, as Wiebe maintains, the successes of the Progressive movement actually helped lead to its downfall.  Achievements such as financial reform following the panic of 1907, workmen's compensation laws, and policies under Woodrow Wilson's New Freedom &quot;dulled the reforming urge&quot; (212).  Former Progressives began to defend the status quo as the nation entered the 1920s.  What is more, the Progressives had &quot;constructed just an approach to reform, mistaking it for the finished product&quot; (223).  Although Wiebe does not fully explain the reasons Americans turned to bureaucratic trends in their &quot;search for order&quot; and is often guilty of over-generalizing, over-intellectualizing, and inundating his work with an excessive use of abstractions, he does make a strong case that there was a &quot;revolution in values&quot; during the Progressive era.  These values of Progressivism are with us today, including an active executive begun during the administrations of Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson.	2001-09-30
US	51752008	R2W2N7KR8V05ZC	0451523830	907302836	Twenty Years at Hull-House (Signet Classics)	Books	3	22	24	N	N	A Progressive who Took Her Own Path	Like many of her fellow &quot;Progressives,&quot; Jane Addams was born in the midwest and received an exceptional scholastic and religious education.  She was strongly devoted to her father and shared with him a reverence for Abraham Lincoln not just as a man, but as a living ideal against which all men should measure their ideas and actions.  Typical of many reformers of her era, Addams was not attracted to evangelical duty.  Missionary work left her with a sense of futile detachment from the wretched social conditions she witnessed in East London.  After visiting Toynbee Hall, Addams decided to establish a similar settlement house in the rapidly-growing city of Chicago, where &quot;the evil and vices of American life seemed to be exaggerated.&quot;  Her experiences at this settlement house are the subject of this book.<br />Although, on the one hand, Addams seemed the typical Progressive; on the other hand she did not follow many of the ideas of the more radical reformers.  She was very practical and refused to be swayed by the claims of certain social movements and untried panaceas.  she did not become a socialist.  Although she greatly admired Tolstoy, she found his message &quot;confused and contradictory&quot; and doubted its suitability to the situation in Chicago.  She deplored any violent tactics associated with socialist and anarchist groups despite their &quot;noble motives.&quot;  Addams demostrated an understanding of the ways in which strikes had a detrimental effect on people outside the labor movement (her dying sister was unable to see her family because the transportation system was blocked due to the Pullman strike.  Unlike most reformers, she also had respect for the immigrant cultures represented at Hull House.  A labor museum put native sewing machines and other instruments and crafts on display for all to enjoy. <br />One observation made by this reader was the animosity on the part of European reformers toward the work of the settlement residents.  Tolstoy offered petty criticisms and one English visitor concluded that reformers in America were indifferent to the plight of the poor because they could not recite the &quot;cubic feet of air required for each occupant of a tenement bedroom.&quot;  Such remarks smack of a &quot;caring competition.&quot; Addams, however, was well aware that the settlement house experiment was far from complete.  Jane Addams' honest and humble account--albeit long and sometimes rambling (don't let the skinny paperback fool you)--demonstrated her unwavering commitment to achieving the improvement and unity of humanity.	2001-09-29
US	51752008	R3CPZ1LCDSQFHW	088286100X	803767658	Eagle Forgotten	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Readable, if Exaggerated, Bio on an Important &quot;Progressive&quot;	The title of Harry Barnard's biography of John Peter Altgeld was inspired by Vachel Lindsay's poem &quot;The Eagle That is Forgotten,&quot; which commemorated the life of Altgeld--the former governor of Illinois.  In this spirit, Barnard presented a highly sympathetic account of the governor's life and contribution to American politics, and at times exaggerating his accomplishments.<br />Sometimes mistakenly branded as &quot;one of those German revolutionists of 1848,&quot; Altgeld was born in southern Germany December 30, 1847.  His family arrived in a farming community of Richmond County, Ohio when he was three months.  After serving as a substitute in the Civil War at the age of sixteen, Altgeld  was filled with new aspirations and ambitions that prompted him to travel west where he soon would enjoy a rapid rise in American politics.<br />Algeld was the governor of Illinois during a very important period in its history.  He is best known for pardoning the three surviving Haymarket defendants and quashing some of the labor unrest of the 1890s.  Barnard described Altgeld as a &quot;law and order&quot; governor during the Pullman strike.  Altgeld encouraged labor to strengthen itself through organization, however, he would not tolerate any threat of violence on the part of labor agitators.  Altgeld also palyed a pivitol role in the 1896 Democratic convention.  Barnard maintained that every plank in the 1896 Dmocratic platform was revolutionary and entirely the achievement of the Illinois governor.<br />Barnard presented a clearly-written account of John Peter Altgeld's political career.  He effectively placed Altgeld within the context of the general issues facing the nation.  These issues included the Granger movement, economic depressions, the labor question, and the debate over currency.<br />In considering Altgeld's role within the general history of the United States in the 1890s, one can find many problems with Barnard's analysis.  Barnard credited Altgeld for the demise of President Cleveland, however, the 1893 depression and Cleveland's role in the repeal of the Sherman Silver Purchase Act were, most likely, more instrumental in the decline of Cleveland's influence in the party then were his ongoing tiffs with Altgeld.  Cleveland's defense of the gold standard alienated him from the southern core of the Democratic party.  Moreover, Barnard admitted that Altgeld cared little for the currency question until 1894.  Altgeld may have dominated the 1896 platform; however, he was unable to prevent the nomination of William Jennings Bryan (Altgeld supported Richard Park of Missouri).  In addition, the role of the Illinois governor may have been elevated because the convention was held in Chicago.<br />Barnard presented convincing arguments to refute a number of traditionally held views regarding Altgeld.  Chief among these views was the belief that the Haymarket pardons ruined Altgeld's political career.  Barnard clearly demonstrated that Altgeld remained very strong in the Democratic party during the 1896 convention.  He cites poor health, a desire to leave politics, and the hard work spent on Bryan's presidential campaign at the expense of the gubernatorial race for Altgeld's failure to gain re-election.  The fact that Altgeld died only eight years after the pardons may make it difficult to access the actual effect the pardons had on his career.<br />The biography is, for the most part, well-written with an excellent use of primary sources; however, it is often overburdened by long quotations which interupt the flow of the reading.  An exchange of these long quotes for more information on Altgeld's day-to-day gubernatorial record would make this work more complete.  Still, it is an essential source of information on an important figure in American Progressivism.or the demise of President Cleveland, however, the 1893 depression and Cleveland's role in the repeal of the Sherman Silver Purchase Act were, most likely, more instrumental in the decline of Cleveland's influence in the party then were his ongoing tiffs with Altgeld.  Cleveland's defense of the gold standard alienated him from the southern core of the Democratic party.  Moreover, Barnard admitted that Altgeld cared little for the currency question until 1894.  Altgeld may have dominated the 1896 platform; however, he was unable to prevent the nomination of William Jennings Bryan (Altgeld supported Richard Park of Missouri).  In addition, the role of the Illinois governor may have been elevated because the convention was held in Chicago.<br />Barnard presented convincing arguments to refute a number of traditionally held views regarding Altgeld.  Chief among these views was the belief that the Haymarket pardons ruined Altgeld's political career.  Barnard clearly demonstrated that Altgeld remained very strong in the Democratic party during the 1896 convention.  He cites poor health, a desire to leave politics, and the hard work spent on Bryan's presidential campaign at the expense of the gubernatorial race for Altgeld's failure to gain re-election.  The fact that Altgeld died only eight years after the pardons may make it difficult to access the actual effect the pardons had on his career.  <br />The biography is, for the most part, well-written with an excellent use of primary sources; however, it is often overburdened by long quotations which interupt the flow of the reading.  An exchange of these long quotes for more information on Altgeld's day-to-day gubernatorial record would make this work more complete.  Still, it is an essential source of information on an important figure in American Progressivism.	2001-09-29
US	51752008	RDZYH012O0V5H	0684857642	708489743	Disco Bloodbath: A Fabulous But True Tale of Murder in Clubland	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	Interesting Look at Lifestyle and Murder	I certainly entered a world in which I've never been when I opened &quot;Disco Bloodbath.&quot;  I was drawn to this book after I saw a documentary on the &quot;club kid&quot; murder of Angel Melendez by flamboyent club promoter Michael Alig.  Although the title of the book implies that it is a typical true crime book that thoroughly covers the murder and aftermath, it is actually a look at the club kid lifestyle and all the drugs and Max Factor that went with it.<br />Former club kid and &quot;celebutante&quot; James St. James gives the reader a disturbing look at life as a K junkie and (in Alig's case) heroine fiend.  Whether it be tearing up floor boards for<BR>lost drugs (of course, it must have fallen into the floor boards!) or Alig asking James if he could stitch up an artery as Alig (desperate without a needle) planned to slash open his wrist in order to push his heroine into his vein, James' account is quite revealing.  Except for the introduction and the last few chapters (which, to me, seemed a bit rushed) the murder seems to take a back seat to the everyday drug-infested mess of the club kid scene.  Sometimes, I found it difficult to follow due to the many characters who are introduced (although, I imagine there are many more people James could have included in his account).  Photos would have been a welcomed addition, but I understand why the author did not include any.  Some information is missing (i.e. how Alig was finally arrested and Alig's official confession--the confession of partner-in-crime Freeze is included).  The lesson James learns from his experience is that &quot;you CAN'T just make up your own rules. And you CAN'T just live in your own little world.&quot;  ......OK. <br />Still, this book is a must have for those (like myself) who found themselves fascinated by the club kid murder.  It's a wonder James was able to remember those days so clearly and was able to survive with his brain and sense of morality intact to write his account.  I have a feeling Alig will be writing his own account and, once out of prison, will be making movies somewhere.  That's justice for you.	2001-09-24
US	51752008	RURFXTFY0OA1I	0674179730	699774729	The Culture of Time and Space, 1880-1918	Books	5	29	30	N	N	An Exciting Approach to the Study of Cultural History	Stephen Kern conducts an innovative examination of the way in which new perceptions of time and space influenced ideas, philosophies, art forms, behavior, politics, and foreign relations.  Kern is able to connect such seemingly unrelated topics as the sinking of the RMS Titanic and Friedrich Nietzche's evaluation of the present (an approach he calls &quot;conceptual distance&quot;) to create a better understanding of the changing attitudes concerning time and space at the turn of the twentieth century.  As Kern points out, the study of such an array of diverse cultural elements in terms of temporal and spatial experiences is essential because time and space are universal.  All peoples experience time and space.  Ultimately, he explains how the changing notions of time and space culminated in the diplomatic breakdown which led to the First World War.<br />This study is very intriguing, but there are weaknesses in his many conclusions.  On the cinema, for example, certainly, it was exciting for viewers to see, for the first time, a man running backwards on the screen; however, it is difficult to take from such experiences the assertion that viewers changed their attitudes regarding time outside the theatre.  Although some memebers of the audience indeed ducked at the sight of an oncoming locomotive on the screen, one must assume that viewers were able to distinguish between what they saw in the theatres and their experiences in real life.  More convincing is Kern's argument that the cinema promoted a sense of temporal world unity (displaying a global sense of time through newsreels, etc.).<br />His main argument regarding the July crisis is also a little weak.  Briefly, Kerns maintains that the preoccupation with speed (especially with the fast, impersonal telegraph) caused diplomacy to fail due to rapid, ill-considered responses to events (the assassiantion of Archduke Ferdinand) and the short time limit given to the Serbian government to respond to Austria's ultimatum.  Certainly there were failures in diplomacy before the telegraph.  Moreover, it could be argued that the telegraph had the potential of making accidental conflicts less likely than before because it allowed for immediate decisions to be made by governments at home rather than by military officers and soldiers abroad (i.e. the Cuban Missile Crisis, although this was--of course--outside of Kern's period of study).  It is also a little hard to swallow that the wonderful technological, philosophical, cultural advances and changes of this period were steering the world to an irreversible path of destruction.<br />Despite these weaknesses, this work is a must have for students of this period because it covers such a broad range of topics and links them into an intriguing and ambitious theory.  It really prompted me to think about this period (my favorite period of history) with a very broad brush.	2001-09-24
US	51752008	R2HIDGAM7H0LQP	0345324250	589824021	The Zimmermann Telegram	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Explains the Importance of the Zimmermann Telegram	From the techniques involved in decoding and deciphering German diplomatic messages (in layman's terms) to the sacrifices and lives spent acquiring the knowledge of Room 40 (i.e. code books) to the tenacious efforts of Germany to spark U.S involvement in Mexico as well as against the Japanese(!), Tuchman provides a thorough account on the Zimmermann Telegram and its crucial role in pulling a reluctant American nation into the First World War. As a History grad student, I never knew about Germany's aims regarding Japan (&quot;the Yellow Peril&quot;) during this period until I read this book. In addition, Tuchman's excellent and often witty writing style makes Zimmermann Telegram (and her many other works) gripping and entertaining, as well as informative.	2001-09-24
