US	51756900	R1VB8GISDGT2G	1585742554	13307449	Long Day's Journey Into War: Pearl Harbor and a World at War-December 7, 1941	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Long, Long Long Day's Journey	This book is far too long. Made up of hundreds of unrelated stories, many of them only a paragraph long, this book reads like a post-modernist novel and took me ten years to read (I read a couple of hundred pages and tucked it away for a decade until I could muster the fortitude to finish it).    Also, the author has strong emotions and does not hesitate to color his narrative to suit his prejudices. For instance, he paints the America Firsters as a sinister group of anti-semitic, Hitler lovers. No doubt there were a few mixed in there, but most of them were sincere if misguided people who were afraid that if we got involved in World War II, we would become an imperial power with an enormous military industrial complex. They may have been wrong, but most of them were not Nazis. I am very much against the protestors of the war in Iraq, but I recognize that only a small minority of them are in favor of genocide and the restoration of a Saddam-like strongman. The America Firsters deserve more sympathy than the current raft of protestors since we are currently in a war and the protestors want us to lose, rather than keep us out as the AFers did. Also, we were not aware of the Nazi genocide until 1942, whereas we have found the bodies in Iraq to prove that Saddam has been a practitioner of genocide for many years.    Or MacArthur, another bete noire of Mr. Weintraub, who gets a lot of blame for losing his planes on the ground, even as the author shows how much it was the fault of Gen. Brereton, the Air Force Chief in the Philippines. Since Brereton went through the war going from blunder to blunder (while always procuring for himself the fanciest HQ, liquors and women) - he presided over the one of the costliest and least effective bombing raids of the war, the most disastrous friendly fire incident in history and the only Allied airborne assault failure in the war - you would think that some of the snide remarks that Mr. Weintraub has for Gen. MacArthur could have beenspread to the real culprit.    Occasionally, the author's hatreds catch him telling tall ones. Chiang Kai-Shek was receiving aid from the Soviets (which was one of the causes for the postwar Sino-Soviet rift), so Chiang's Nazi sympathies must have been muted if they existed at all.    OK, so the book is too long and somewhat untrustworthy. Why four stars? Because the author attempts something rarely seen, which is valuable in its own right. A reader of a book like this would be foolish to actually think he's learning about the events. The narrative is too choppy for that. The value here is in reminding us that history ISN'T a smooth narrative, that events are happening around the world, some of them relevant, some of them not, two steps forward and one step back. The author made a great and largely successful attempt to find events happening simultaneuously around the globe, all on a single day. Breaking 12/7/41 into the 47 hours of the sun's movement around the globe (from midnight 12/7 on the western side of the International Date Line to midnight 12/8 on the eastern side) and moving from Orson Welles in a train heading to Chicago to General Rommel in a conference with an Italian general in the Egyptian desert to Cordell Hull in DC waiting for Japanese diplomats to the withdrawal of a Spanish division in Russia to a football game in Manhattan to the aircraft carriers steaming toward Pearl Harbor, the story is compelling.     John Ellis wrote a book about a day in October, 1944 and there is an excellent book about a day in the middle of the American Civil War, but those books focused on their respective wars and told their stories on a theater by theater basis. You had a feeling that you were the President being given an intelligence report the first thing in the morning. They were exciting books because of that, but they had a different purpose than Mr. Weintraub's book, which is, ultimately, an impressive acheivement.	2005-09-23
US	51756900	RVDGUGVP6BEHJ	0595089887	805307527	The Scarlet Mansion	Books	2	8	12	N	Y	I May Be Too Harsh On This Book	Allan Eckert is one of our great writers of historical fiction. His series about the Western movement is an education in itself and, although he does not use the footnotes here that he used to such good effect in that series, you somehow know that he has written this book with the same scrupulous attention to the facts. <br /> <br />And if you read any book about a serial killer, Herman Mudgett is the one to study. It is foolish to call him a capitalist, for the same reason it is foolish to refer to Bonnie and Clyde as \\"bankers\\" just because they robbed banks. But Mudgett was a man of property (albeit stolen) and roots and the number of crimes he pulled off is a real lesson in how primitive law enforcement was in the 19th Century. It relied on society to keep order and, when a man slipped the traces of civilized society, as Mudgett and his henchmen and henchwomen did, society was helpless. Eckert tells this story well. <br /> <br />Why only two stars then? Because Eckert tells the story TOO well. 500 pages with a serial killer is too much. The first two thirds of the book is the worst. Every character is either evil or naive and as you read through Eckert's recounting of Mudgetts various crimes, cons and seductions, you feel that you have entered an unpleasant world without any moral center.  <br /> <br />When someone finally enters the book at page 350 or so who is both morally upright and intelligent, it is a breath of fresh air, like opening a window after breathing 300 plus pages of stale air.  <br /> <br />Perhaps this is all a reason to read this book, but be forewarned.	2005-09-10
US	51756900	R7D2ZZ1PASXPE	0061030864	763786575	Once An Eagle	Books	1	41	89	N	Y	Comic Books Are More Accurate	It's strange that an anti-war book has no advocates outside of the military, but plenty within it. This book is a period piece, when liberals like the author had a residual respect for the military left over from World War II, but wanted to distinguish that war from Vietnam. So the author wrote this book positing a \\"good soldier\\" against a \\"bad soldier.\\" The book received all sorts of acclaim, but the Left moved on to its current hatred of all soldiers and this book soon became forgotten, justifiably so.<br /><br />But it came back through an unlikely source. The US Marine Corps has a reading list containing books which its personnel are expected to read. Most of these works are useful and well written. This one is not.<br /><br />Neither the good soldier nor the bad soldier are the least bit credible. The good Sam Damon comes across like some sort of comic book hero while the evil Courtney Massengale is Darth Vader in khaki. Massengale is, of course, like the villain in all too many pulp novels by unimaginative writers, a repressed homosexual who tortured squirrels as a youngster. One admires the authors restraint in failing to give Massengale a mustache to twirl.<br /><br />For the first part of the overly long book, the plot meanders along innocently enough. Then Damon spends time with the Chinese Communists. The storyline goes that his career went off the tracks at that time. I don't know about that - he does, after all, get promoted to general - but the book certainly leaps the rails.<br /><br />Forget that the Communists spent more time trying to undermine the Chinese effort against the Japanese invasion than combat Japan. This book has a lot more serious problems than that. The author would have you believe that a general whose entire career was spent as a staff officer could suddenly become a corps commander in charge of an invasion (don't use Eisenhower as a counterexample: he had plenty of command experience); that a general could cover up a blunder which results in the destruction of an entire regiment; that a general like Damon could be bought off with a medal and is too stupid not to demand in writing the order he knows will result in a disaster; that a general like Massengale can convince the US government to invade China and only the intervention of another general can stop him. The absurdities get worse.<br /><br />I suspect that the only reason this book is on the Marine's reading list is because it makes the Army look bad. If the military wants to have its officers get a real lesson in leadership, have them read The Thin Red Line by James Jones. There are no comic book heroes there. You learn how a good officer can lose the trust of his men by promising something he doesn't deliver on, how treating your troops as fellow humans can make them willing to die for you, how bad soldiers can redeem themselves.<br /><br />There is no reason for anyone to read Once an Eagle.entire regiment; that a general like Damon could be bought off with a medal and is too stupid not to demand in writing the order he knows will result in a disaster; that a general like Massengale can convince the US government to invade China and only the intervention of another general can stop him. The absurdities get worse.     I suspect that the only reason this book is on the Marine's reading list is because it makes the Army look bad. If the military wants to have its officers get a real lesson in leadership, have them read The Thin Red Line by James Jones. There are no comic book heroes there. You learn how a good officer can lose the trust of his men by promising something he doesn't deliver on, how treating your troops as fellow humans can make them willing to die for you, how bad soldiers can redeem themselves.     There is no reason for anyone to read Once an Eagle.	2005-09-09
US	51756900	R2V4BP9GTUKFMV	0451172515	604545811	Second Sight	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	McCarry is the Best, Bar None	Choosing the best Charles McCarry novel is like choosing the best Mozart Sonata. There is no best, there are only favorites. There is a lovely scene in this book where the head of the \\"Outfit,\\" McCarry's version of the CIA, and his sweet, wonderful wife entertain a trendy rich radically chic couple. The scene sums up everything that was wrong about the 60s and even if the rest of the book wasn't such a delight, would make reading the book worthwhile.	2005-09-09
US	51756900	R1KY2A65J71F86	0805076824	926765114	102 Minutes: The Untold Story of the Fight to Survive Inside the Twin Towers	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Gripping Minute by Minute Account	This is the sort of book you can't put down because you want to see what happens, even though you already know. I found myself flipping back to the appendix of people mentioned over and over again to determine who died and who survived.	2005-09-08
US	51756900	R39K748R8N69BT	1569470200	585156788	Jade Lady Burning	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	The Best Mystery Writer Going	Ignore PW. The New York Times rated this book as one of their Notable Books of 1992, a rare acheivement, especially for a first time mystery writer. Martin Limon is one of the few writers I go out of my way to find. He is so good at capturing the Korean culture, the military culture and the way the two cultures affect each other that you feel that you served a tour of duty in 1970s Korea yourself. The mystery and the characters are wonderful, too.	2005-09-06
US	51756900	R252G8M1ODZ4AY	0226239683	920488774	Nixon at the Movies: A Book about Belief	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Original and Incisive	Mark Feeney's book provides a more intelligent examination of Richard Nixon, the movies and the twentieth century than anyone writing. That he blends them all together in a seamless narrative is just amazing. He is fair minded and, rare for an intellectual, brimming with common sense.    That doesn't mean that I agree with his analysis of Nixon. In particular, there are three substantive events of the Nixon era on which it is easy to disagree with Feeney:      1. Cambodia: Feeney seems to buy the line that Nixon brought about the fall of Cambodia. He should have read less Anthony Summers and more Lewis Sorley. No respectable historian believes Summers, William Shawcross and their ilk anymore. Sorley (no friend of Nixon) shows just how nearly we came to winning. A quick glance at the map should show anyone that once South Vietnam fell, so would Cambodia. Blaming Nixon is just the way the left avoids its responsibility for genocide.       2. Yom Kippur: Feeney treats Nixon's rescue of Israel in a couple of subordinate clauses, but this was one of the great moments of his Presidency and it was Nixon's personal peculiarities that brought it about. The military tried to block him, his advisors were unenthusiastic (\\"Get off your fat ass and get those planes in the air, Henry,\\" Nixon is quoted as saying) and the left accused Nixon of organizing a coup d'etat. Only Nixon made it happen and saved Israel in the process.       3. Civil Rights: there have only been 5 US Presidents who furthered civil rights (Grant, Harding, Truman, LBJ and Nixon). Interestingly, they all left office at the bottom of the list of Presidential reputations and they all have revisionist cheerleaders, although only Truman has been pulled out of the gutter so far (Grant will be next). Nixon's signal acheivement was to pursue a liberal civil rights program (integrating the schools in the South, affirmative action, etc.) while winning white southerners to the Republicans. This depoliticized civil rightsto such an extent that today the most conservative institution in America - the military - is also the least racist.    There is far too much emphasis generally on Nixon's anger and poverty creating the \\"Nixon Era\\" of break-ins and wiretaps (Feeney does a better job than most). The \\"Nixon Era\\" began in 1931 when Herbert Hoover used Naval Intelligence to break into the office of an unfriendly biographer (see Conflict of Duty by Dorwert). FDR, JFK and LBJ expanded the \\"Nixon Era\\" until, about the time Bill Moyers, then LBJ's aide, ordered the FBI to dig up dirt on Republican homosexuals for blackmail purposes, the FBI decided to go freelance, setting up COINTELPRO and assorted other programs without outside knowledge (possibly even without J. Edgar's knowledge). Ironically, it was Nixon's efforts to make the FBI more responsive to elected officials that turned Mark Felt into Deep Throat and brought Nixon down.     Nixon ended the Nixon Era by being so uncharismatic. Just as OJ, Robert Blake and Michael Jackson could get away with their crimes because of their celebrity, FDR and JFK could, too. The growth of government has not been ended but the growth of its shadier bits is firmly under control thanks to Nixon, because when he fell, so did a lot of average people. The rules changed for public servants. \\"Just following orders\\" no longer got you a gig on public television the way it did Bill Moyers (just compare the good Charles Colson has done for society with what Moyers, a premature angry old man has failed to do). Bill Clinton's sale of technological secrets to China for private gain was made known by the Director of the FBI, because he knew that if he stonewalled, he would be punished.    And Nixon's contempt for the Ivy League was far healthier than LBJ's awe of them. LBJ had big doubts about Vietnam but yielded to the \\"Harvards\\" in his administration who ran the war into the ground. Nixon's contempt for their intellect kept them in line (\\"Get off your fat ass, Henry\\"). Nixon may have been angry at Kissinger's attempt to steal credit for his own ideas, but he must have gained a certain satisfaction out of it, too. What better way to prove your superiority than to have a Harvard professor cheat by copying from your exam?    Today, it is obvious that Nixon really won. Richard Ben-Veniste, the golden boy of Watergate, was last seen engineering a crude and sordid coverup of a scandal in which, unlike Watergate, Americans did die, thousands of them. The media now is rated by the public [another irony!] on a par with used car salesmen. Dan Rather, the newsreader who delighted in tormenting Nixon, was forced to resign, proving himself to be both unethical and stupid to boot. And for the first time since 1930, conservatives control all three branches of the government.    It is that last point with which Nixon would not take so much satisfaction. Nixon was the most leftist President we ever had, the \\"last liberal,\\" Garry Wills called him. \\"I gave them a sword,\\" Nixon told David Frost. But he didn't give it to the Democrats; he gave it to the right wing of his own party. It was Barry Goldwater and Howard Baker who told Nixon that he had to resign because the rightwing wouldn't stand by him. The right  took Nixon's sword and gave us the modern world of Reagan and Bush2 by thrusting it into the belly of liberal Republicanism.    Bill Clinton was a bigger crook than Nixon (beginning with Hillary's shortsales of pharmaceutical stocks as a newly appointed health care czar and ending with a wholesale auction of pardons to any gangster with enough Benjamins). He was also as rightwing as Nixon was leftwing, with his main accomplishment being the shutting down of the SEC, turning Wall Street over to crooks who cost the economy a larger share of the national wealth than was lost in the Great Depression. Clinton gave the leftwing of his party a sword too, but the left, fools that they are, committed hari kiri with it.    Feeney may disagree with the above, but his splendid book shows how we got here nonetheless.	2005-09-03
US	51756900	R20HAGNY4L8BO2	080106211X	666549360	Turning Points: Decisive Moments in the History of Christianity	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A Valuable Book for Believers and Nonbelievers Alike	By describing the ten events which the author thinks are the most important in the history of Christianity, Dr. Noll has developed a great framework on which to structure a survey history of the entire religion.  <br /> <br />Dr. Noll is an evangelical Protestant, but he makes it quite clear where his prejudices lay and how it may affect what he has to say. He also helpfully points out how someone who disagrees with him could reach different conclusions. In fact, he is so scrupulous in examining his own biases, that this book is a model for any honest historian writing about any subject. <br /> <br />The book is also a lot of fun. In addition to thorough discussions of each of his turning points, he has sidebars on things like developments in the writing of hymns and prayers. You learn more about Christianity (and the development of the Western world) in this short book than you do in many books ten times as long.	2005-09-01
US	51756900	R3AXAL4UV4T75S	0521852544	838879571	Visions of Victory: The Hopes of Eight World War II Leaders	Books	5	18	21	N	N	One of the Great Masters of World War II History	I envy anyone who studies under Gerhard Weinberg. As someone who studied under Stanley Payne, another great scholar of World War II, I appreciate Weinberg's intellectual rigor, his ability to balance objectivity without in the least abandoning his morality (a surprisingly rare feat in modern academia) and his clear and compelling prose.  <br /> <br />This book examines a subject which has not, surprisingly, been examined before in much detail: what the ideal post-war would have looked like to eight of the principal war leaders. It is a fast, exciting read. Suffice it to say that everyone in the world is better off that the war ended the way it did. <br /> <br />I think Professor Weinberg is too charitable toward FDR (Stewart Alsop, who was a cousin of FDR, once said that FDR would have been disturbed to see the erosion of WASP control of America and that is reinforced here by his vision of the UK remaining a superpower after the loss of its colonies), but one can disagree with the good professor's conclusions precisely because he is so scrupulously honest and thorough.	2005-08-31
US	51756900	RDU4BCBGTKNHK	1887178368	947999501	The Hunters	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Product of a West Point Education	This is a terrific novel which makes a clear distinction between military glory and military leadership. Both the storyline and the style make it clear that James Salter (like Edgar Allen Poe) was educated at West Point. The difference between Cleve, the hero, and Pell, his antagonist, is something that no one without a military background would be able to articulate, but as presented by Salter, the distinction seems so obvious and so important that you wonder why you did not think of it yourself. Salter is a top notch stylist, too, with tight crisp prose which still manages to sing. This is a classic.    By the way, if you watched the movie based on this book, don't assume that you know what this book is about. A fair to middling war movie, The Hunter's plot is totally different. Only the names of the characters are the same. Mr. Salter's book is far superior to the movie which lesser talents adapted from it.	2005-08-30
US	51756900	RGLTLC620WEM2	1569473137	671504033	The Blooding of the Guns: The Everard Naval Series: Volume One	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The First of a Great Series	At first blush, the Everard family doesn't look like much on which to base a series of heroic sailors. Hugh, drummed out of the service before the war in some unnamed scandal but pulled back in because of the emergency, is in love with his brother John's wife. John, a general in the army in France, does not make an appearance, but his sons Nick and David do. Nick is feckless and irresponsible, just one step ahead of being drummed out of the Royal Navy himself, while David is more professional if somewhat dull. That in the course of the book, one's opinion of everyone changes 180 degrees is a tribute to the author's skill at both showing character development and also at revealing a character's past layer by layer, like peeling an onion. <br /> <br />The criticism commonly made about this book merely shows the inability of some critics to appreciate the intent of the book they are reviewing. Yes, the book is choppy and yes, it is hard to follow the course of the action. One's initial impulse is to wish for maps and an appendix, but then you realize that this is the whole point. Fullerton's goal is to present to the reader exactly how fighting the Battle of Jutland felt to those who were there. Jutland was a confusing battle and it was many days before those who were there had the foggiest notion of the sequence of events. Fullerton has studied the battle carefully and everything that happened in real life happens here at exactly the same time. But you can't construct a coherent whole out of the narrative, just as even Lord Jellicoe wasn't able to do so. For that, you need to consult another book (I would recommend Rules of the Game by Andrew Gordon, which is not only the finest description of the battle, but one of the finest works of military history), but do it after you read this book, so that you get the full flavor of the writer's intent.  <br /> <br />Very few writers capture the fog of war as well as Fullerton does.	2005-08-08
US	51756900	R2WVSJKRP9ETKV	1579620876	797817168	Mr. and Mrs. Club	Books	3	0	4	N	N	A Feminist Novel with an Unappealing Heroine	Nothing much happens in Ms. Emmet's book: the Prescott family fixes up an old farm house in the mid-1950s, Liza Prescott is unhappy and almost launches into an affair with the local alienated rich boy, who has been lifted without editing from every James Dean movie ever produced, but he is killed. She finds a job and is fulfilled and they move to Cambridge.    You want period detail in a historical novel and there is a lot of it here, but did people really say \\"uptight\\" and \\"looking good\\" and did women from small towns in Pennsylvania really regret that they could only buy iceberg lettuce at the local grocery store in the 1950s? Well, not in the '50s I remember, but everyone has their own memories.    What hurts the book is the Liza, the protagonist. She has a loving and generous husband, a lovely house on a piece of property large for the family to raise sheep, and she is unhappy. She comes across as a spoiled brat. She doesn't particularly like children and her one daughter is more of a burden to her than a joy. Then she finds happiness by getting a job . . . as the town clerk whose primary job seems to be moving dusty file boxes around all day. She writes a local history and that gives her satisfaction.     Okay, it's important for someone to earn money and it gives them a sense of selfhood, but the job she takes is menial and the book could have been written without having a job, as so many wonderful women writers in the 50s did. The Mr. and Mrs. Club would have been far more effective as a feminist novel if Liza had either gone back to school to get an M.D. or had opened a store, say a knitting shop for all that wool. To substitute domestic drudgery for paid drudgery is not much of an improvement.     This is important because the feminist movement has forced a lot of women into the workplace who would have been happier outside of it. In the 1900s, the feminists of the day launched the \\"livable wage\\" movement, arguing that jobs should pay enough to allow womento stay home. Highly educated people marry other highly educated people, and if they both work, their colleagues either have to become two career couples themselves or accept an enormous decline in living standards since the two career couples bid up the cost of living and one career couples can no longer live on the same level as their two career colleagues.    None of this is an argument for stay at home women and society is better off employing all of its brains rather than setting aside half of them to educate the next generation, but you have to be alert to the cost of progress and by making Liza fulfilled by taking a crummy job sweeps under the rug the millions of American women who were unwillingly forced into the marketplace by Yuppies.	2005-08-04
US	51756900	R3N6UVCP5KDM8X	0385333641	580864553	From Here to Eternity	Books	5	89	92	N	N	Can I give it MORE than 5 stars?	It is almost a pity that the movie From Here to Eternity was one of the greatest movies ever made. This is because not only will fewer people read the book, but because it is so rich in character, mood and plot that you could make five movies without duplicating any scene. The only problem is that Sgt. Warden would be a key actor in each movie and there are no actors like Burt Lancaster in Hollywood today. <br /> <br />One reviewer criticized the book for its pacing: there are slow sections and faster moving chapters, but this is an accurate reflection of military life, where you will have boredom alternating with intense excitement. So Jones just reflects the world he depicts in his pacing. <br /> <br />There are only two crucial works of fiction about World War II which must be read: From Here to Eternity and James Gould Cozzens' Guard of Honor. The action is minimal in both (non-existent in Guard of Honor: it all takes place on a Florida airbase over the course of a weekend) but both capture the times like no other book. They complement each other, too, with Jones capturing the life of enlisted men and Cozzens doing the same for officers. <br /> <br />One word of warning, however. If you are of a mind to read Norman Mailer's The Naked and the Dead (not that I recommend it), read Mailer first. Once you've read Jones, you will not be able to wade through Mailers' sophomoric, tedious, preachy tome. At the end of 900 pages of From Here to Eternity, I was sorry to see the book end. After 50 pages of The Naked and the Dead, I feared that it never would.	2005-07-15
US	51756900	R3I9JW2UGYKVWI	0813342481	734008089	Sex Sells!: The Media's Journey From Repression To Obsession	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Better Luck Next Time	Any nonfiction book implies a level of trust between the author and the reader. Mr. Streitmatter lost that trust early in the book and never quite got it back. In the first chapter, he made two assertions which are clearly false. First he cites the statistics in Alfred Kinsey's work and only in a footnote does he reveal that Kinsey's research population was so flawed (up to 80% of his interviewees were criminals or homosexuals) that it makes no sense to cite the statistics as examples of anything. Then, he cites the long discredited allegation that J. Edgar Hoover wore women's dresses. He even gets the false allegation wrong. Mr. Streitmatter cites Anthony Summers, whose sole source for the charge in his very flawed biography was the wife of a man the FBI sent to jail. Summers claimed that Hoover wore a women's dress to a fancy ball at New York's Plaza Hotel (which would have meant that hundreds or thousands of people would have seen him, making it bizarre that Summers could find no witnesses other than a source with a grudge against Hoover), not in his own house, as Streitmatter would have it.  <br /> <br />Anyone with standards loses patience with Mr. Streitmatter after that. And that's a shame, because the author has an important point to make: that the media has hidden messages even in its most frivolous amusements and that it behooves us all - puritan or libertine - to understand them. This is a lesson that everyone needs to learn about all media, not just the sexually oriented ones. It is, indeed, important to look beneath the surface to figure out just how the media is trying to influence you. All messages are propaganda and you need to be alert. <br /> <br />The author takes several examples of popular media - movies, magazines, television shows, etc. - from Playboy in the 1950s to modern media to show how the media has operated to change sexual mores in America. Although the author's sympathy, with his references to \\"outdated moral codes\\" and \\"sexual repression,\\" are clear, he does an admirably fair job of presenting opposing views. <br /> <br />I would have preferred a more complex analysis. He presents these media at the height of their power and shows how they changed the prevailing mood, but I would have preferred it if he went a little farther to look at the downfall of these media: why did Playboy lose circulation to Penthouse and why did they both later lose out to less explicit magazines? Why was All in the Family cancelled or Three's Company lose its audience? You should be able to understand not just how these media made changes but why they got left in the dust. It would have also been worth examining the connection between more explicitness in the media and such modern phenomena as low birthrates and young people uninterested in sex or marriage. It may very well be, as a better book has it, that it is sexual taboos which kept sex interesting for so many centuries and that destroying those taboos also destroys the sex drive. <br />	2005-07-14
US	51756900	R3482ADNSARO4G	0802713297	665380474	Back to the Front: An Accidental Historian Walks the Trenches of World War I	Books	1	11	22	N	N	Too many goals	The author tries to accomplish four goals in this book: write a travelogue of a walk along the old Western Front, present an intellectual autobiography showing how he acquired an interest in history, write a history of World War I and present an anti-war polemic. He fails at all four. <br /> <br />If he had stuck to a travelogue, this book could be recommended. Although he is a somewhat stilted writer, given to using three words when one would do, he is also capable of some original metaphors and sharp observations. Unfortunately, he spends far too little time on the travelogue and, although he tells us that he performed the walk over the course of ten years, you get no sense of time in the book. He also awkwardly tries to tell the history of the war chronologically while describing his walk geographically, with the bizarre result that he discusses the war's endgame in Belgium while he is wandering around the Alps. <br /> <br />The intellectual autobiography gets short shrift and that is good because the author moves from total ignorance to the slightest familiarity with history. He read five books and learned nothing. Not much to go with there. <br /> <br />The history of World War I is a potted history garnered from reading a handful of outdated works. This book is now ten years old, but even in 1995, historians had developed a more nuanced view of the war. The generals weren't stupid; by and large, they were the best their countries had. That they failed so badly is a reflection of the human condition and the inability of all people (not just the military) to make rapid adjustments to new technology. These generals went from careers in which a major battle had maybe 20,000 men on each side armed with rifles to face a war with millions of men and an awesome array of new weapons ranging from tanks, machine guns, barbed wire, artillery and countless other devices that had never been tried in action. O'Shea's inability to empathize with the problems faced by well intentioned and skilled people who were not up to the task shows his inadequacy as a historian and it makes it hard to excuse his own failures as a writer - his failure to keep up with the current thinking, his inabilty to focus on one theme, his willingness to let his preconceived notions taint his output: if O'Shea had been a World War I general, his casualty rates would have been higher than Douglas Haig's. <br /> <br />His anti-war polemic should have been the easiest to produce, but even here he falls down. He rambles on and on how stupid the military mind was then and always, but he also condemns the Holocaust, which, after all, only ended when military minds fought Hitler's armies. Ultimately, you have to take a choice: you can either oppose war or you can oppose genocide. You can deplore both, of course, as all good people must. But you can only choose one to prevent. That is why modern pacifists have turned a blind eye to genocide in Cambodia and Rwanda and why they are so critical of George Bush even though Saddam Hussein was a genocidal monster. One can disagree with their acceptance of genocide over war, but you have to accept the logic of their position. O'Shea doesn't understand that and that makes even his diatribe worthless.	2005-07-14
US	51756900	R2CXPID4WPE38F	0195039025	176341280	America in 1857: A Nation on the Brink	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Villains and Heroes of the Pre-Civil War	This book has a lot to tell people even if they think they know all about the Civil War. It covers the year 1857 and Mr. Stampp makes a persuasive case that this year was the year that made the Civil War inevitable. <br /> <br />Bad Presidents often get stigmatized with the reputation that they were merely ineffectual. Often, this allows the really bad Presidents from getting off the hook for active wrongdoing. Herbert Hoover for instance is hardly known for instituting the first Presidential break-in of political enemies which became common practice among almost all of his successors until Richard Nixon was caught. And people remember Bill Clinton for Monica Lewinsky, not for being the first President to receive bribes from Red China. So it is with James Buchanan, whose intervention in the Kansas controversy was so outrageous that he brought about the collapse of the Democratic Party and the dissolution of the Union. Stampp also makes it clear why Stephen A. Douglas deserves his reputation as a great man. <br /> <br />Stampp gives you a flavor of the year, so much that you almost feel that you are there. I would have preferred more cultural news - what the people were reading, what was playing in the theaters - but there is no reason for complaining about a book which didn't get written. As it stands, this is a splendid acheivement.	2005-07-08
US	51756900	R2QYKFPHPHZGTM	1594200122	969784645	Things Worth Fighting for: Collected Writings	Books	5	11	11	N	N	One of the Pillars of American Journalism	The review from the &quot;Reader from LA&quot; had so many typos that one suspects it was written by Barbra Streisand and should be treated accordingly, but as someone who was inspired by Michael Kelly to go to Afghanistan, I would like to point out that Saddam Hussein was a genocidal maniac and if it was not right to overthrow him, it was not right to overthrow anyone. More than 300,000 graves have been found so far, many of them infants and children. If America doesn't care, no one will care. Michael Kelly was always a liberal, but one with his feet on the ground which is why he wrote so powerfully against the Clintons, Ted Kennedy, Jesse Jackson and every other person who has confused personal welfare with public welfare. What made Michael Kelly's work so lasting is that he wasn't standing up for privilege or power. He shared the liberal instinct, but was far too intelligent to fall for empty rhetoric. One's feeling toward Michael Kelly is a bellwether of one's own intelligence, character and empathy. His loss will be deeply felt. This book collects most of his most important pieces and what is striking is how almost nothing is dated. Although many of his subjects are now history, the principles Kelly stood for and the style of his writing make these pieces as alive and timely as if he wrote them today. If there is any criticism of this book, it is that it is not a &quot;collected works,&quot; but maybe we'll have that one day, too.	2004-04-24
US	51756900	RZ5EJ2JUH2NYH	0691030065	530619901	Afghanistan (Princeton Legacy Library)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	The Single Best Introduction to Afghanistan	Louis Dupree's book is the single best survey of Afghanistan ever written. Indeed, it is the best survey of any country with which I am familiar. In 700 well-written pages, the book introduces the reader to the flora, fauna, geology, geography, folk customs, ethnic groups, literature and history of the country. When I served as the legal advisor to the US Embassy in Kabul for a year, I found it invaluable.	2004-03-04
US	51756900	R3KP2ZOXXVPQWH	0060009225	795309718	Call Each River Jordan (Abel Jones Mysteries)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Parry Just Keeps Getting Better	I'm always wary of historical novels, since they have a tendency to transfer 21st Century sensibilities to their subject matter. Owen Parry (whose real name is Ralph Peters, the great Russian expert and strategic thinker) avoids that, creating a hero and a story which live and breath the Civil War era. I was impressed, although not overly so, with the first book of the series, but I am increasingly moved by every addition to the series. <br />Major Abel Jones is pompous and priggish and if weren't so clever in solving murder mysteries, he would be a classic comic figure (one on-going theme is the pride this Welshman takes in his singing voice, when it's obvious (though not to him) that it's rather awful).<br />The walk on parts of various historical figures is impressive. I always judge the walk ons in historical novels by using as my gold standard the Abraham Lincoln in George MacDonald Fraser's Flashman series: lovely little vignettes which both capture the essence of the man and allow the reader to see his hero in a new light. In River Jordan, Parry manages a General Grant who is every bit as real as Fraser's Lincoln. That is the first time I can say that about anyone's novel about any era.	2003-09-26
US	51756900	R1U5FN79X81LF4	0375508805	214765773	The Number: How the Drive for Quarterly Earnings Corrupted Wall Street and Corporate America	Books	1	19	33	N	N	Worthless and Misleading	What makes this wrongheaded book so bad is that it is well researched and well written but completely lacking in common sense. Gullible people will fall for it and more's the pity. Mr. Berenson focuses on a tiny aspect of the massive frauds of the nineties, confusing symptoms with causes. It is like blaming the invention of the torpedo for the start of World War II.<br />The real cause of the frauds and bubbles of the nineties was the apparently conscious decision of the Securities and Exchange Commission to let fraud go unchecked. Mr. Berenson mentions the SEC briefly, blaming its inactivity on budget cuts, but that just isn't true. The SEC budget rose 31% in the 1990s and the budgeted amount was never used. Dozens of jobs provided for in the budget for inspectors and lawyers at the SEC weren't filled and there was a lot of activity on such silly things as the plain English rule, while the SEC shut down investigations into wrong doing. As soon as the new administration came in - and before the frauds were discovered and the SEC budget was increased - the number of investigations doubled. Any securities lawyer will tell you that the SEC simply didn't care. Mr. Berenson would absolve the SEC from all this, when it was the SEC which sent out the message that the cat was away. Like The New York Times, the newspaper Mr. Berenson works for, given the choice between defending liberal principles and shilling for the reactionaries running the Democratic Party, his choice is to become Bill Clinton's bootlick. You will learn a heck of a lot about very little in this book. You will learn nothing, however, about the economy. For that you must look elsewhere. I would recommend Infectious Greed by Partnoy, even if it, too, is only a partial picture of the 90s. I haven't finished Partnoy's book yet, so cannot give an unqualified endorsement yet, but it seems to be honest, sensible and accurate, all of which is missing from The Number. Partnoy is not just a Clinton basher, either.He levels blame where blame is due. He points out, for instance, that Clinton's SEC Commissioner was initially a Reagan Administration candidate for the post. If Clinton's appointees receive the lion's share of the blame, that is because they deserve it. Unlike Mr. Berenson, Partnoy is honest with his readership and is an intelligent observer.	2003-03-27
US	51756900	R3PLKWFXCRFP7V	0060013788	224870380	Our Simple Gifts: Civil War Christmas Tales	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Modern Christmas Carol	In his other persona, Owen Parry is a prominent retired army officer who writes brilliantly on national defense and strategy. It comes as a surprise, therefore, to find these gentle stories written by the same hand. This is fine historical fiction. Not only do the characters stay within their historical period - no distracting anachronisms here - but so does the writing. The stories are upbeat and completely ingenuous. They might not be cynical enough for modern tastes, so here is a test: if you enjoy A Christmas Carol by Charles Dickens, you will love this book. If your tastes run more toward Tim Burton's Christmas tale, you probably won't enjoy it, although you should read it anyway: it would be good for your head. No matter what your tastes, however, no one should miss the last story in the collection. It is not only the finest in the book, but a classic work which illustrates the human condition better than any other story written in the last 100 years. The protagonist is a newly freed slave who had been unspeakably abused by his \\"masters.\\" Now the tide has turned, the men are dead in the war and the mistress of the house is on the verge of losing everything to the bank and about to be cast out with her retarded daughter. The simple act of Christian kindness which the slave shows toward the women brilliantly illustrates the evil of slavery and the importance of religion. This isn't Dickens; it's much much better than that.	2003-02-12
US	51756900	R28KFP84OSVWDG	0684859076	302392775	How to Read and Why	Books	2	12	24	N	N	ALL ABOUT HAROLD BLOOM AND WHO CARES?	This book covers a valuable subject and parts of it are excellent, but ultimately it fails because it is not about how to read but how Harold Bloom reads and he can't move away from his favorite subject to let in some fresh air. Here is a minor example: he pulls up one of Shakespeare's sonnets to condemn the Republicans who impeached Clinton. The sonnet CAN be read to attack people who condemn sexual impropriety while engaging in it themselves, but that would apply more strongly to Clinton himself than the Republicans. It was Clinton, after all, who wrote the law which allows the courts to pry into people's bedroom secrets. That he was caught by his own neo-Puritan law is perfect justice. But in the meanwhile, Shakespeare gets lost in Bloom's bloviating. This would be a far better book if Bloom gave his ego a rest and allowed his formidable intellect to do some heavy lifting for a change.	2001-11-19
US	51756900	R2QOQ6G5IUISAK	0375503749	994024922	The Wild Frontier: Atrocities During the American-Indian War from Jamestown Colony to Wounded Knee	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Required Reading in American History	One good thing about the 60s was that it was a transitional, and therefore more interesting, period between the traditional America that preceded it and the hypocritical and self destructive period that gave us the 90s. Nowhere is the transition more obvious than in Hollywood Westerns. Before then, the pioneers were &quot;us&quot; and Indians were the depersonalized &quot;other&quot; serving the same purpose as Germans and Japanese in war movies and monsters and aliens in science fiction. After the 60s, Hollywood got caught up in its self loathing dead end and the real Native Americans were replaced by virtuous stick figures to play against the evil blacks and whites who took their land. There is no difference beween the distortions of Tom Mix and Dances with Wolves, except that the earlier movies were better written. In the 60s, however, in movies like Ulzana's Raid and Duel at Diablo, you got a real sense that there were no good guys and bad guys - just a clash of cultures fought on a very bitter level. <br />Now Mr. Osborn has brought the same honesty to the academic level by cataloging the massacres that occurred throughout the nearly 300 years of wars between settlers and Indians. This is an extremely important wake up call for the majority of academic historians whose work is crippled by a primitive form of manichaeism, forever taking sides without understanding them.<br />The book does not take sides. It just attempts to list every crime by Native Americans against settlers, and by settlers against Native Americans. In doing so, it not only highlights the human drama of the Indian wars, but it shows how the bloodshed arose from mutual fear and distrust, rising in a vicious spiral as one atrocity created another.<br />There are, of course, omissions in such an attempt at comprehensiveness: the murder of the religious leader Anne Hutchinson and her family in 17th Century Connecticut, for instance, was missed. But errors always crop up and can be corrected. Whatis important is just how thorough this work is.	2001-07-23
US	51756900	RCWKH5NWZ49DQ	0330335006	398113516	Grand Days	Books	5	17	17	N	N	How Can a Book This Important Be So Much Fun?	This novel is about Edith Campbell Berry, a bright young lady who joins the League of Nations and sets about to reform the world. She has a strong, but undisciplined intellect, able to view her mundane tasks, such as seeing that delegates get a pencil holder at a conference, as matters of world shaking importance. She is even able to intellectualize the act of defecation. Thinking herself a modern woman, she engages in lots of kinky sex. In all of this, the author manages to recreate the intellectual passions of the age. Indeed, Edith's superiors do not seem to be any more effective than she is. And then, somewhere along the way, Edith is no longer the innocent Candide, but becomes something much more sinister, destroying a lover without giving him a chance to explain himself and developing a passion for eugenics to reduce the numbers of the &quot;lower classes&quot; (interestingly, she shows no concern with the huge election gains of the Nazi Party in Germany at this time). Yet there is no abrupt transition: Edith, like many 20th Century intellectuals, has developed along logical lines unhampered by morality, a route which leads to tyranny. If you want keen insight into how civilized countries developed death camps and gulags and how leading intellectuals supported them every step of the way, read this book. That the author avoids having his message overwhelm the generally comic tone is a tribute to his skill. This book is a classic. It even has appendices in the back to provide the reader with information ranging from the constitution of the League of Nations to a summary of many of the intellectual developments of the 1920s.	2001-04-03
US	51756900	R2IHYBEFTPCLZN	030435273X	16309853	History of Warfare: War at Sea in the Ironclad Age	Books	5	15	18	N	Y	A Splendid Survey of an Underwritten Era	Cassell has done a great service to readers with its new series on military history. Wonderfully illustrated, these books have a text written by leading historians. The problem with the series is that they are generally just over 200 pages and are so heavily illustrated that the text is rarely more than half that number. Since the books cover large chunks of military history (World War II in the East or War in the Air 1914-1945, for instance), they only appeal to the generalist, not someone widely read in the field (such as the two previous reviewers of this work who obviously are experts). There simply isn't the space to give more than a bare summary of events, no matter how well analyzed.<br />It is for this reason that Admiral Hill has such a winner here for everyone except the extremely well-read navalist. The ironclad era was the most traumatic time in naval history as navies tried to cope with revolutionary technology. Because naval battles were so rare in this era, the period tends to be overlooked. Although I am fairly well read in military history, this book was, for me, chock full of new and important information. It is well organized and makes very clear why forgotten battles like Lissa, forgotten ships like Huascar and forgotten men like Jules Ferry were important.<br />It has a few mistakes - Teddy Roosevelt was a Republican and the new navy was far advanced when he came on the scene - and sometimes spends too much time on peripheral issues - the naval brigades of the Boer War fought on land as army troops, so they should not have had several pages devoted to them. But the excellent text and the wonderful drawings, photos, maps and charts make this an important work. There are few surveys on this most important era of naval warfare. Anyone with the slightest interest in naval or technological history would be well advised to buy this book.	2000-12-08
US	51756900	RWCN5AIS8VFXK	0312242530	933255499	Truth: A History and a Guide for the Perplexed	Books	5	20	22	N	Y	A Necessary Corrective for our Times	We live in an spiritually blighted era when people don't know or care what  the meaning of is is. The idea of any transcendant ideal has no value to  society. Not only do people not care what truth is, they would not know  what to do with it if they found it. This book is a remarkable examination  of that modern failure of the soul and a thoughtful examination of how  truth has been sought throughout history. The bulk of the book consists of  a review of the four different methods of seeking the truth, from &quot;gut  feelings&quot; to empirical evidence. The final chapter looks at how modern  Western civilization has abandoned the quest for truth, falling prey to  such lunacies as deconstructionism. Perhaps the most important point the  author makes is that when a people has abandoned the search for the truth,  they are easy prey for lies. We see this in Washington, in the media and in  academia today. We ignore this trend at our peril. If we want to preserve  our freedoms, we must become more attuned to the truth. Dr.  Fernandez-Armesto's book is a good place to begin.	2000-08-28
US	51756900	R137LNBXZRT5BL	0140246967	501983138	Touched with Fire: The Land War in the South Pacific	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The American John Keegan	Eric Bergerud shares certain qualities with the great English military  historian, John Keegan. Both have a knack for portraying military history  in an innovative, non-linear way. Both have a novelist's eye for  illuminating detail. Both have produced works which are destined to be read  long after we are all dead and gone.<br />It is the differences between the  two historians, however, which illustrate Bergerud's strengths. Whereas,  Keegan's greatest book, The Face of Battle, detailed three campaigns in one  volume, Bergerud will describe a single campaign in three volumes, two of  which are currently available. Bergerud writes a more practical history,  showing how an alien environment requires tools, strategies and management  skills which would be unappreciated elsewhere.<br />Bergerud also succeeds  brilliantly in accomplishing something that Keegan tried and failed to show  in Six Armies in Normandy: he demonstrates how cultural differences result  in different organizations and fighting styles among the world's armies.  This is a very difficult feat to pull off and Bergerud, demonstrating how  Australian, U.S. and Japanese commands approached  similar problems in very  different ways, gives his reader insights which have far more than academic  utility.<br />The jungle is the main character here and Bergerud turns it into  a living, malevolent presence. This is more than mere military history. It  is as powerful an illustration of man against nature and man against man as  you will find anywhere.	2000-08-20
US	51756900	R318KFUMDIAA1R	0871136740	982263074	Within the Context of No Context	Books	3	18	45	N	N	At Least his Heart is in the Right Place	One thing is almost guaranteed: the dumbing-down consumer- energizing mass media will always be with us. Politically, it is untouchable. It is created  and owned by the left, which pretends to hate it and defended by the right,  which pretends to like it. So I suppose we should treat Mr. Trow's  criticism of the media  like Samuel Johnson's dog. We shouldn't focus on  how badly it's done, but marvel that it's done at all.<br />Alas, it really is  poorly done. Mr. Trow tries to be stylish and clever, but sacrifices reason  and coherence to achieve it. He doesn't define his terms, so that his  meaning is often ambiguous. In several places, one could draw two equally  valid but contradictory interpretations of his text. If you look at the  blurbs on the cover which praise the book, it is very clear what is wrong.  Except for Michael Tolkin, the half dozen or so writers praising the book  are a who's who of our brain dead media. Having John Irving lament the  &quot;terminal silliness of our culture&quot; is like having Ronald  MacDonald slam the terminal fattiness of our cuisine. And that's a pity,  because Mr. Trow has some important things to say. As one who has admired  Mr. Trow's work since his lovely play, The Tennis Game, these essays were  very disappointing.	2000-08-18
US	51756900	R6TR4KG14HBQV	0738804061	981940715	The Senior Partner	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Splendid Acheivement	Thrillers, perhaps by their nature, are disappointing. The antagonist, so dangerous in the beginning of most books, turns out to be a clumsy sod whom  the protagonist easily puts away. The good guy, meanwhile, always seems to  run a little faster and shoot a little straighter than mobs of bigger and  better-trained people. The result is that even the best thrillers take  place in a sort of never never land.<br />George Hammond manages to avoid the  flaws in the genre, creating believable characters in a realistic setting.  To say that Hammond is better than Grisham is true, but not enough. That is  like saying that caviar is better than popcorn. Hammond is in the same  league as Geoffrey Household, which means that he is at the top of the  form.<br />Hammond manages to pull off a double play, because, not only does  he create a thriller in a whole different league, he also manages to invent  a lawfirm which is both realistic and fascinating. Most lawfirms in  literature have no connection to the real world. Writers tend to tart up  the image of the practice of law, making cases and events far more  melodramatic than is really the case. But while Hammond captures the staid  nature of law firm practice, his writing is never dull. He fills his law  firm with cases which seem real (with interesting details) and draws a  culture which is more accurate, even, than Louis Auchincloss. As a  practicing attorney, I can attest to the accuracy of the world Hammond has  manufactured. Pay particular attention to the advice and aphorisms spouted  by the partners; they happen to be true.<br />This is a perfect gift for  someone contemplating a legal career. It is well written and exciting, so  it will hold anyone's interest. But it also draws an accurate picture of  what practicing law is all about. Hammond is one of those rare people these  days who seeks the truth. He knows what the meaning of is is.	2000-08-03
US	51756900	R7AYKG6JDYM5U	0465041957	357546778	How We Got Here: The 1970s: The Decade That Brought You Modern Life (for Better Or Worse)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Sociological History at its Finest	The history of a period of time - a day, a month, a year, a decade - Is a  popular and enjoyable genre of history. It is usually no more than that,  becoming just a list of fads, skirmishes and events. Not so How We Got  Here. It is, perhaps, the best such work currently available. This book  doesn't only tell you what happened, it also tells you why it did and how  it changed the country. The reviewers praised this work, but then referred  to Mr. Frum as a &quot;right wing moralist.&quot; That says more about the  reviewers than it does about Mr. Frum. That may be an accurate description  of Mr. Frum's philosophy, but this book is neither right wing nor  moralistic, unless it is moralistic to believe that acts and ideas have  consequences. If that is so, then anyone with a brain is a right winger.  This book doesn't condemn either the 70s or the present; it merely points  out the way the country has changed (sometimes for the better, sometimes  for the worse) and shows how developments in the 70s effected such change.  This is a terrific book.	2000-07-18
US	51756900	R3KSGMTNLAVP1R	081391874X	486158358	Bloody Promenade: Reflections on a Civil War Battle (The American South Series)	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	And Now For Something Completely Different	Just when it seemed that there could be nothing new written about the Civil War, along comes Stephen Cushman with this extraordinary book. Although Mr. Cushman focuses exclusively on a few days in one location  during the Civil War and fills the book with fascinating minutiae about  those days and that location, this book could be profitably read by someone  with no interest in the Civil War or, for that matter, history. For the  theme of Mr. Cushman's book is evidence, perception and comprehension: how  do we know something? What information can we rely on? How can we believe  what we see, read or hear? If this sounds boring, believe me it isn't, but  it is crucial to consider these questions in this era where people will  argue with a straight face that there are any number of truths depending on  what the meaning of is is. Each chapter deals with a different source of  information concerning the Battle of the Wilderness: everything from  memoirs, diaries and letters to roadsigns, newsweeklies and   reenactments.  One comes to understand that there is a truth that is attained through many  forms of flawed half-truths. This is brilliantly captured when, after many  chapters of contradictory and confusing accounts of the battle, the author  wraps up his book with a short, dispassionate account of what actually  occurred. This is the most profound book which is actually fun to read that  I know.	2000-07-17
US	51756900	R15PKOK51W9EQ7	0553562967	96085944	Bellwether	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Time to Recognize Connie Willis for What She Is	When will America's critics wake up and recognize Ms. Willis for what she is? She stays in the SciFi ghetto where her many fans are happy to have her but where the larger crowd of general readers will never hear of her.  Willis can hold her own with the best of them. Doomsday Book was a moving  drama  which offered wise thoughts on the roles of science and religion in  society. Bellwether is wonderful social satire. C'mon you eggheads! Time to  wake up and smell the genius!	2000-07-14
US	51756900	R33EY8T9EJC22Y	006019541X	351520335	Blue Angel: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Francine Prose Writes Like an Angel (Not Blue)	Francine Prose is an exquisite satirist who manages to capture an age with her books. She does it, not by the tedious Updike method of spot-the pop-culture-reference, but by translating the zeitgeist onto the page so  accurately that you wonder whether she was eavesdropping on your recent  conversations. That is why her books will be readable in 100 years, long  after Updike's last works have been recycled into garbage bags. It is  fashionable in some circles to conclude that Ms. Prose is a conservative  because of her willingness to expose the lunacy of feminism and political  correctness and has written not unflatteringly about religion.  That is not  quite right. She is something far more rare, wonderful and important than a  mere polemicist. She is an artist with a spot-on ear for the lunacy of the  age. If she mocks targets on the left these days more than the right, that  says more about the left than about Ms. Prose. Blue Angel is another  triumph.	2000-07-13
US	51756900	R10QQOGJTM91IM	1574881795	325542483	Thunderbolt: General Creighton Abrams and the Army of His Times (Association of the United States Army)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A Work of Genius about a Man of Genius	In this era when the entire upper class has avoided military service or arranged, Gore-like, for a safe berth, we are bombarded with stupid faux-military management books like The Marine Corps Way to Boost Sales or  The Navy Seal Interview Technique. So it is strange that a book which makes  no pretensions of being a business book is one of the best books on  management style ever written. Creighton Abrams was one of the great  military heroes in American history. If he had gotten to Vietnam three  years earlier, the world would be a different place. This book brilliantly  captures the General's leadership techniques, making it very clear why he was as successful as he was. Filled with perfectly chosen anecdotes within a solid and well written history, this book brings its subject to life like no other biography I've read. If you like your military history full  of blood and sensation without much structure or analysis, this book is not  for you. Gen. Abrams colorful WWII experience is covered in a scant 40  pages of a 400 page book. But if you want to know how to be a successful  leader -whether you are a schoolteacher, a small town banker or President  of the United States - this book is for you.	2000-07-13
US	51756900	R3CKX7LFMFF0WM	156980155X	470489998	Giuliani: Nasty Man	Books	1	22	44	N	N	The Court Jester Attacks Sir Galahad	When Ed Koch's book Mayor came out, it was an exhilarating read. The unstated theme of the book was that the City of New York was going to Hell, that no one could prevent it from doing so, that the mayor of New York had  no power to do anything and that therefore, the only thing that he, Ed  Koch, could do is make Canute-like angry blasts against the onrushing tide.  This theme appealed to  the pessimist and the slothfulness in all of us.  Let's rant and rave because there is nothing we can do! No sense fighting  the inevitable! There is no doubt that this idea is deeply ingrained in the  psyche of most New Yorkers, which is why Koch was a popular mayor.<br />Alas  for Ed Koch's reputation, two things happened. First, his Administration  was shown to be one of the most corrupt in the history of New York. Far  from fighting the forces that were dragging the city down, his diatribes  were mere diversions, attacking the small time crooks while the big time  criminals were raiding the City's treasury. While apparently honest  himself, Ed Koch has always shown a preference for the ethically  challenged, as can be seen by his enthusiastic endorsement of Mrs. Clinton,  while letting far more worthy and honorable Democrats like Mario Cuomo sink  without lending a hand.<br />The second misfortune for Koch's reputation was  the accession of Rudolph Giuliani so soon after Koch left office. Lacking  the common touch, presiding over a city hostile to him, sharing power with  an obstructionist City Council of the opposite party, Giuliani single  handedly turned the city around, making it safer, cleaner and fiscally  sounder. The only city service still going downhill is the school system,  which is, not coincidentally, the only service in which the City Council  has prevented Giuliani from taking action.<br />This book, therefore, must be  seen in light of this background. It is an angry, bitter, worthless book.  The prose is poor and the jokes are flat. I'm sure there are thingsto  criticize about Mayor  Giuliani, but Koch misses them. He replaces facts  and analysis with vitriol and warmed over sarcasm.<br />Still, one can  understand Ed Koch's plight. His ego forced him to think of himself as a  great mayor. Now here's Rudy Giuliani to show that Ed was only a stand-up  comedian and an unfunny one at that.	2000-07-13
US	51756900	RCJ5N5H4CSBE9	0375700706	445103025	An American Dream	Books	1	8	22	N	N	Mailer Bomb	I know people who reread Proust every year. I know  people whose favorite book is Finnegan's Wake. But I have never known anyone of any intelligence who has made it through a novel by Norman Mailer. This book is a good  example of why that is. Although the prose is serviceable, it is  pointlessly obfuscating. The characters are leaden and the ideas, such as  they are, are puerile. Mailer is perfect for readers of very little brain  who want to think they are intellectuals. His books are pornographic soap  operas for high school sophomores.	2000-07-13
US	51756900	R2ZLFQ9JIQNAHG	0316091170	237056230	The Return of Little Big Man: A Novel	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Berger Rides Again	Return of Little Big Man is not as good as Little Big Man, but since Little Big Man easily ranks among the ten greatest American novels ever written, that is not strong criticism. RLBM is a bit too long - it drags  somewhat between the point at which Jack Crabb joins Buffalo Bill and the  point at which he witnesses Sitting Bull's death. But otherwise it is  superior in every way. <br />There is a change of focus here. Unlike LBM, RLBM  is less a revisionist history of the Old West and has changed its focus to  the encroaching Twentieth Century. Best of all, it introduces a romantic  element in the form of Amanda Teasdale, who will surely prove a match for  Jack Crabb. The author promises additional installments of Crabb's life. I  look forward to them. I wish he'd produce a nonfiction companion volume (or  footnotes a la Flashman) so the reader could determine what is fact and  what is fancy.	2000-07-10
US	51756900	R1LGKTYARDUWN2	1574881817	703049907	Mystery Man: William Rhodes Davis: Nazi Agent of Influence	Books	5	10	14	N	Y	An Excellent Examination of a Nazi Opportunist	America has always been cursed with opportunists willing to do business with dictators. The current crop of people willing to profit from China -  from President Clinton's apparent cash payments from the Chinese secret  police to Republican businessmens' use of near slave labor to boost their  profits - have their antecedents in William Rhodes Davis, who made a  fortune supplying Hitler with the oil to launch World War II. There were  many mysterious things about Davis - his relationship to FDR, his role as a  Nazi agent, even his death. Mr. Harrington doesn't, can't give us the  answers to everything, but he does a brilliant job laying out the facts  that are known.  The author is both an investment banker and a sensible  man. Both are necessary skills to bring to a book like this. As an  investment banker, he is anexcellent guide through the thickets of  financial manueverings. As a sensible man, he weighs the information  carefully and allows the reader to draw his own conclusions. I have only  one quibble: he mentions that Sir Harry Oakes became associated with Davis  shortly before Davis' strange death. Oakes himself of course figured in a  strange murder case in the Bahamas shortly thereafter. I would have liked  the author to see if there was any connection between the cases. That is  the minorest of quibbles, however, and readers of this book will be able to  reflect on just how many facets history has.	2000-06-26
US	51756900	R1I6IZMCS0BOQE	0807848492	839159000	Rum, Romanism, and Rebellion: The Making of a President, 1884	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Great Historian Brings An Era to Life	Mark Summers is one of the great historians of mid-nineteenth century America. He is fully capable of taking subjects which have seemingly been worked to death and making them fresh with new material and original  analysis. Rum Romanism and Rebellion does just that, making Blaine and  Cleveland seem more vital and alive than the current occupants of the White  House. The issues engage us, the political battle grips us. This is one of  the author's best (to my mind, Mr. Summers best work is his two volume work  on political corruption [neatly divided between ante-bellum crooks and  post-war thieves]; let's hope that Mr. Summers has a trilogy in mind and  next turns his attention to wartime corruption: from the transcontinental  railroad to the supply of Union soldiers and the appointment of generals,  that era was rife with corruption, yet very little has ever been written  about it). Well done, Mr. Summers!	2000-04-28
US	51756900	RSOX93RHTABDR	0151003904	765643531	Snow Man	Books	5	29	36	N	Y	The Radical Chic Blanch	This is the best thing Chute has ever written. So why did it turn her into an unperson among the literary elite? Ostensibly because her hero is a right-wing militiaman who assassinates a US Senator. But the assassination is shown to be a rather horrid affair: no glorification there. And this  right-winger's heroes are all Latin American left wing guerillas. And aside  from a bitterness toward the rich and powerful, the hero does not  express  his views with any degree of coherence, so this is not right wing  propaganda. <br />To find out why this book has caused Ms. Chute to be dropped  from the A list, you have to go back to Tom Wolfe's Radical Chic.  Underlying the limousine liberal's love affair with the Black Panthers was  a certain sense of superiority and contempt for the blacks they pretended  to listen to. It was the same reason why Ms. Chute was lionized for her  earlier books about the Maine equivalent of Tobacco Road: she was the tour  guide who would give them a nice, safe viewing of an inferior culture,  rather like the way the aristocracy visited lunatic asylums in the 18th  century.<br />Now Ms. Chute has slipped her traces. The tour guide has joined  the toothless outsiders and set fire to the bus. Her hero may be a killer  who deserves his fate, but he has manners, grace, authenticity and  character. The liberal matron and  her consciousness-raised daughter fall  into his bed because he has qualities they haven't seen before, certainly  not in the worthless men of  what passes for an elite in this country these  days. And that is what causes the revolt of the book reviewers. Yes many of  her characters are empty vessels, plastic men with plastic women. But that  is entirely Ms. Chute's point.	2000-04-03
US	51756900	R3QNBZMDZJI74B	0674637909	672018308	One Case at a Time: Judicial Minimalism on the Supreme Court	Books	1	26	64	N	N	Sad Use of a Brilliant Mind	Liberalism eats its intellectuals, cannibalizing their principles for the sake of political expediency.<br />Professor Sunstein is a case in point. Last year, to defend President Clinton against impeachment, he argued that a  President can't be impeached for any crime not related to his office. When  pressed, he allowed that it would be a borderline case if the President  murdered someone, but no lesser crime would merit impeachment. Professor  Sunstein is not a stupid man, but this is a stupid argument. Since, like  most legal experts, Mr. Sunstein also believes that a President cannot be  prosecuted, Mr. Sunstein is arguing that if a President habitually raped  women or blew up abortion clinics and bragged about his exploits in his  State of the Union Address, the country would be powerless to take any  action against him. I doubt that a man of Mr. Sunstein's intelligence  believed that even as he spoke it, but nevertheless, he lent his prestige  to a shabby argument for the political demands of the moment.<br />There is  something of the same thing going on in this book. This time, there is  nothing objectionable in his thesis. Courts should not strip issues away  from the democratic process. Indeed, if it weren't for Roe v. Wade (which  Sunstein properly condemns), state legislatures would have legalized  abortion anyway, but the pro-life forces would not be picketing clinics,  let alone blowing them up. Vox populi, vox dei has a powerful ability to  make people to accept what they oppose. Courts lack that power.<br />Where  Sunstein bows to political pressure is in his choice of examples of  judicial overreach. For every example of Warren Court  &quot;maximalism&quot; which he rightly condemns, he throws in a right-wing  example, Justices Scalia and Thomas being particular targets. But he really  is comparing apples and oranges. Justice Scalia's position on punitive  damages, for instance, which has a long tradition in America despite  current abuses, is just not on a par with the Warren Court's Baker v. Carr,  which overturned 200 years of electoral practice (and, if the court had  been logically consistent, would have overturned the method of electing  U.S. Senators, thus making the Constitution unconstitutional). Yet Sunstein  equates the two. If conservative judges were really the judicial activists  Sunstein pretends them to be, they would be arguing that the fetus is a  human being protected by the Constitution. They do not do that, arguing at  their most extreme that it is a matter for the legislatures to decide.  <br />Because liberalism is aimless at the moment, it behooves liberals to  applaud the narrow focus of  the Court. It also behooves them to use a tu  quoque argument to attack the opposition. Sunstein fills the bill.<br />This  book is a highly original and highly principled work. Unfortunately, the  parts that are original are not principled and the parts that principled  are not original.	2000-02-08
US	51756900	RAT4BLNXI8KIF	067416539X	466933121	Constitutional Choices	Books	2	19	58	N	N	How Tribe's Sacrifice Weakened the Constitution	Laurence Tribe sacrificed an almost sure nomination to the Supreme Court by lending his academic credentials to the attack on Robert Bork's nomination to the Court. He succeeded in keeping Bork off the Court, but in  doing so, was removed from consideration for a seat himself. Ironically, it  is not the hapless Republicans who have kept him from a nomination: it is  common knowledge in Washington that the Democrats themselves have dropped  him for the simple reason that one does not appoint a hitman to high  court.<br />This is tragic, because reading Laurence Tribe side by side with  Bork makes it clear what America lost when they both were denied a position  on the Court. Both men are brilliant. Both are flawed. Together, each of  them supplies the ingredients the other one lacks. Tribe, with his  aggressive role for the Court, tends to disregard the fact that we live in  a democracy, while Bork gives excessive deference to tradition and popular  will. Together, they would have balanced each other out, providing thesis  and antithesis at an extremely sophisticated level. The country would have  benefitted. Instead, we have to suffer Justices Souter and Breyer, living  examples of the Peter Principle in action. What hath Tribe  wrought?<br />Tribe's work, like that of Bork, really deserves three stars,  but I have demoted him because of the McCarthyite tactics of Tribe and his  allies in defeating Bork, tactics which included breaking into the video  store Judge Bork used in order to find dirt against him (unfortunately for  them, Bork's tastes ran to opera, symphonies and classic Hollywood fare of  the 30s and 40s). Perhaps the Tribes and Borks of the future will face a  less rabid political process and the Supreme Court will   have a place for  them both. In the meanwhile, read Bork and Tribe together and try to  imagine what a splendid place the Supreme Court could have been.	2000-01-11
US	51756900	R2QNKQ4SLVE2D5	0820320013	718943203	The Good War's Greatest Hits: World War II and American Remembering	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A History of Entertainment with a World War II Theme	This is an academic history of the way the entertainment industry has protrayed World War II and, thus, how and in what manner the war has entered the collective memory. It is mostly free of academic jargon and has  30 pages of footnotes which alone are worth the price of the book. On the  one hand, it is a splendid history of the post-war entertainment industry  and the way World War II helped to shape it. On the other, it is a  thoughtful meditation of how popular culture shapes the nation's historical  consciousness. It is the only work I know of which covers the subject, so  it is required reading for anyone interested in the subject. <br />I only give  it four stars because of its treatment of Catch-22. The author is correct  that the grim anti-war message of that work deepened and enriched the  country's memory of the experience of the war, but on another level,  Catch-22 played an important role in increasing the nation's amnesia. The  moral center of the book is an old Italian peasant who tells Yossarian and  his friends that it doesn't matter who wins the war, that he will still be  sitting in the door of his house. Nately makes a fool of himself trying to  refute the peasant, but the peasant's viewpoint is the viewpoint of Joseph  Heller. Indeed, the peasant is about the only character who keeps his  dignity in the book. Biedler deals with this matter only in a footnote,  calling the peasant &quot;cynical,&quot; but Joseph Heller would not have  called him that and indeed, when we read Catch-22 in the '60s, all of us  knew that the peasant was speaking for Heller (Heller himself admitted that  in some of his campus lectures as I recall). The problem with that  viewpoint, of course, was that the Italian peasant was not Jewish. If he  were, he would not remain sitting on his doorstep when the Nazis marched  through. Heller never admitted that sometimes there are things worth  fighting for. Indeed, he couldn't have if he wasn't going to write a  different book than the one he did. What makes the book courageous is that  he wrote an anti-war novel about a war that everybody except Pat Buchanan  used to agree was worth fighting. What makes the book cowardly is that  Heller finessed the point. In doing so and in writng such a powerful  classic, Heller was greatly contributing to &quot;American  forgetting.&quot; A direct line can be drawn between Catch-22 and those  fools who think the Holocaust never happened. That Joseph Heller was a Jew  does not excuse him; in fact, it makes his error worse. Biedler should have  addressed this very central theme to the way America has treated World War  II.<br />That criticism aside, this is a book which is fascinating to read and  thoughtful to boot.	1999-12-18
US	51756900	R3S4IGBYCACZSN	0684844893	708330639	A Necessary Evil: A History of American Distrust of Government	Books	1	19	50	N	N	Shooting Straw Dogs	There was a time when Garry Wills was one of the most brilliant thinkers in America. His Cincinnatus still ranks as the greatest study of George Washington ever written. But Wills seems to have lost his soul somewhere in  the '90s. This book is trite. Yes, there is a role for government (duh).  Yes there are growing numbers in fringe groups (left and right) who are  anarchists. But Wills never stops to ask why. And Wills life itself offers  a clue as to why many people - some of them decent people - have seceded  from society. Mr. Wills himself does not appear to believe in neutral  principles of justice. He has stood by while political power has been  abused by people he agrees with: Clarence Thomas is attacked for his  alleged dirty joke while the media ignores evidence that Bill Clinton raped  a woman. Newt Gingrich is brought up on ethics charges for advocating  government training for the poor (on the spurious grounds that if poor  people had jobs, they would become Republicans!) while Janet Reno has sat  on what the FBI says was a massive intervention of the Chinese in the 1996  election. The media has not demanded accountability from the Clinton  Administration. Not for the FBI files, the campaign funding, the scores of  IRS audits requested by the White House against Clinton's political  opponents. Nothing. The state holds the power of life or death, of  prosperity or failure, of knowledge or ignorance over each of us. Is it any  wonder that people are unwilling to extend or even maintain that power over  people when America's elite takes such a cavalier aproach to the abuse of  that power? Garry Wills contempt for the average American is obvious on  every page of this book and that makes this book unworthy of him.	1999-12-11
US	51756900	RGE4YKG2GWJAY	0688165664	641369599	Deadlines and Datelines	Books	1	5	23	N	N	Dan Blather, A Very Strange Man	You don't have to be a Republican to wonder why Dan Rather covered up evidence that President Clinton raped Juanita Broadrick especially since Mr. Rather led the fight against Clarence Thomas for his alleged dirty  joke. Either Mr. Rather is a moral monster, who finds a black man's joke to  be worse than a white man's rape, or he is a total idiot. Evidence of the  latter proposition can be found in this book. There are few paragraphs more  than two sentences long. What he has to say is not original and is  expressed in a very pedestrian manner. It's amusing for awhile to read the  first few lines of one of his &quot;essays&quot; and then write the rest of  the piece yourself. This could be written by a computer which has been  programmed on the Dick and Jane series. But even THAT computer would have  been offended by the President's rape.	1999-12-02
US	51756900	R2M65RF6S6O5SP	0761810781	798919491	President Grant Reconsidered	Books	5	14	16	N	N	An Object Lesson in How History Can Be Distorted	At a time when one of America's most famous historians defends a President against rape charges by arguing that &quot;gentlemen always lie about  sex,&quot; this book is a welcome reminder that historians can greatly  distort their subject matter. President Grant, as shown by Mr. Scaturro,  was one of the great civil rights Presidents and a strong chief executive.  That he is remembered as a failure says less about him as President than it  does about the sheeplike quality of American academia who have tarnished  his reputation. All Presidential Administrations  probably have a certain  level of corruption and the amount of publicity such corruption receives  has nothing to do with the actual level of venality. This is one of the  crucial books on American history.	1999-11-23
US	51756900	R1NBMVJSCI4K6D	0671041312	286696000	Lip Service	Books	1	4	8	N	Y	Ignore the 4 and 5 Star Reviews	This book is junk. No insights, just soft core porn (and pretty flaccid soft core at that - it wouldnt stimulate a monk with hormone shots)	1999-10-15
US	51756900	R15XBX4R2SVVB8	0393045803	285805115	The Disuniting of America: Reflections on a Multicultural Society	Books	1	8	53	N	N	Practice What You Preach, Mr Schlesinger	This book is well written and underlines the dangers of a society in which the cement of society is so fractured that everyone feels entitled to act without regard to a social norm. However, Mr. Schlesinger is hardly the man  to trust on such matters. His standards of proper behavior depend solely on  one's political allegiance. He has argued on the one hand that a black man  is not entitled to a seat on the Supreme Court because of allegations that  the man made a dirty joke (never mind that his accuser had serious  credibility problems). Then he turns around and defends Bill Clinton  against (much more credible) allegations of rape by arguing that  &quot;gentlemen always lie about sex.&quot; The only problem with  multiculturalism is its potential for creating a nation where no one can  agree on what is right and what is wrong. Mr. Schlesinger, it seems, cannot  even agree on such matters in his own mind.	1999-09-09
US	51756900	R39B50U6EZ4GJW	0700609385	615478846	Warmaking and American Democracy: The Struggle over Military Strategy, 1700 to the Present (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Required Reading for Anyone Involved in America's Defense	This is a splendid and original book. It examines the faultline between military strategy and political considerations. It is an engagingly written product of a superb and fairminded thinker and thorough researcher. No  matter how much you have read about military history, you are guaranteed to  learn many new things. I have two faults with it - both major, but  localized: first, in his analysis of WWII, he does not discuss the  allocation of resources enough. Joel Davidson showed how we ended the war  with a larger Navy and a smaller Army than we should have had, largely  because of FDR's Navy bias, Adm. King's aggressiveness and Gen. Marshall's  willingness to back down, even when he was right. I would have liked to see  Mr. Pearlman direct his considerable talents to this subject. The second  failing is somewhat perplexing: the author's willingness to accept the  argument of a handful of JFK partisans that JFK wanted to abandon South  Vietnam after the 1964 election. The only sources for this canard are a  handful of intensely loyal Kennedy insiders who made these claims only  after the war had become unpopular. If there were any truth to these  claims, they would have surfaced when these same people were in counsels of  war with the reluctant hawk, Lyndon Johnson. I'm not saying that these  people are liars exactly, but that they so wanted JFK to have done the  popular thing, that they created these conversations in their subconscious  and came to believe them as gospel. Recent studies suggest that JFK ordered  the coup against Diem because Diem was talking to Ho Che Minh; surely JFK  would have let that continue if he planned to pull out. At any rate, once  he had had the CIA depose Diem and completely disrupt the established  government of an ally, there was no way he could bail out. Forget getting  Bobby elected, there were too many people committed to Vietnam and who were  privy to the coup to let JFK pull such a stunt without facing an  impeachment. Despitethese two shortcomings, this is one of the best works  of military history that I have ever read.	1999-09-03
US	51756900	R2G5ATHS7XU4Q8	0809016249	39125933	A Tangled Web: The Making of Foreign Policy in the Nixon Presidency	Books	1	9	19	N	N	Muddled Message from an Inappropriate Messenger	Mr. Bundy puts the worst possible spin on every foreign policy initiative by Richard Nixon. Whatever truth there is in this tome is buried beneath a biased account told with the sort of arrogance which got us into the war in  the first place. In fact, the primary virtue of this book is to give us  insight into the intellectual and character flaws of the author, one of the  major architects of the Vietnam fiasco. Above all else, this is an  extraordinarily uncharitable and ungentlemanly work. Thanks to Mr. Bundy,  his brother and the Presidents they served, Richard Nixon held the weakest  hand of foreign policy cards of any President-elect since Abe Lincoln.  Whatever his mistakes, Richard Nixon tried his best and he left America in  a better position than the one he inherited from Mr. Bundy and his fellow  conspirators, which is something Mr. Bundy cannot claim about his own  public service. Common decency should have compelled Mr. Bundy to let  someone else write this book. Someone else would have done a better job  than this nasty, twisted, deeply flawed work.	1999-08-19
US	51756900	R1FAXSA2LTL6L7	0679741011	525615259	Sex, Art, and American Culture: Essays	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Don't Read Camille to Agree with Her	Read Ms. Paglia to get your mind stretched. Whether you are on the left or the right you will find her in equal parts right on and maddening, but that just means that she thinks for herself, a rare commodity in modern  academia. She is intellectually honest and grounded in common sense. You  will never find her excusing President Clinton's conduct like the rest of  the so-called woman's movement does. Viva Paglia!	1999-07-27
US	51756900	R39OPPYVPZG4UQ	0449908208	765015738	Against Our Will: Men, Women, and Rape	Books	1	23	66	N	N	Don't Believe a Word of It	Ms. Brownmiller has concluded that President Clinton did indeed rape Juanita Broadrick, but that it doesn't matter because Clinton is so virile that he didn't realize he was raping her until after he was finished. How  can anyone call herself a feminist when she utters such crap! Why defend  the pig? Because he supports partial birth abortion? But rapists will  always be doctrinaire pro-choice. Let's just say that fatherhood is not a  priority with them.If you defend abortion AND rape, you condemn women to a  form of servitude unheard of in modern times. I used to respect this book,  but how can you trust someone who wants to convert the feminist movement  into the Ladies' Auxiliary for Democratic rapists?	1999-07-26
US	51756900	R29P1CWUQ3HXTA	0700609385	615478846	Warmaking and American Democracy: The Struggle over Military Strategy, 1700 to the Present (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Important Insights on American Strategy	This book is original, well written and well researched. It tells the story of how domestic political decisions have affected American war-making since the Revolution. It must be read by anyone who is interested in  defense, politics or history. Engagingly written with eye-opening  revelations on each page, this book is one of the few books on any subject  which can truly be said to be indispensible.	1999-07-19
US	51756900	R1TOWA1J8LEL9K	0195069056	506704034	Albion's Seed: Four British Folkways in America (America: a cultural history)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	It tells us who we are	This is the most important book on American sociology since DeTocqueville. Identifying four strains of early American culture, it shows how these competing cultures have shaped the United States and continue to define us  today. Why did American feminists conclude that President Clinton did  indeed rape Juanita Broadrick, but that his behavior was acceptable? It may  have less to do with politics and more to do with the fact that in early  Virginia society, men were expected to be sexual predators. How can  mutli-cultural America avoid fragmentation? See how early Pennsylvania  society created institutions which allowed various cultures to flourish  under one authority. Covering everything from cuisine to politics, from  speech patterns to architecture, Mr. Fischer, America's most important  historian, gives us a better understanding of the present and the future.	1999-06-16
US	51756900	R1XRTXBR547VK5	0061315451	360159255	Historians' Fallacies : Toward a Logic of Historical Thought	Books	5	17	19	N	Y	The Most Important Work of Historiography Ever Written	Historians' Fallacies is not just about errors in writing history and it is not just for historians. This book tells you how to think, how to spot errors in logical analysis on any subject and how to avoid these errors. It  is also hugely entertaining. Because the focus is on history - and each  flaw in logic is illustrated by an excerpt from a prominent historian,  anyone interested in history should read this book. But because these flaws  in thinking can be seen everyday in the White House, the schoolroom and the  daily newspaper (and everywhere else), this book is of immense importance  to anyone who wants to think for him or herself.	1999-04-21
US	51756900	R11EWVBEG2YB59	0380976412	558246463	Traitor: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	D.C.Noir	Ralph Peters is one those success stories that only the army is capable of: rocker dropout joins army and becomes one of America's leading strategic thinkers. In his spare time, he turns out immensely entertaining  page turners, which are remarkable for holding your interest by sheer  narrative drive and deft characterization. Sex and violence are not as  important as plot and background. His heroes tend to win not by being  tougher or smarter than their enemies, but by being more honorable. In  Devil's Garden and Twilight of Heroes, his best books, one learns a fair  bit about current international concerns, as well. No one shows better how  much damage can be caused by stupid career minded bureaucrats. Victory is  always bittersweet, with the real bad guys still in control. Both Garden  and Twilight are worth more than their cover price just for the wonderfully  accurate portrayal of that blowhard Strobe Talbott. In Traitor, Peters  tries something new, less realistic, more violent, more cynical. His  villains are evil this time. Although I prefer the tone of his earlier  novels, he is in top form here and his villain, Punchy Hunt, is one of the  great bad guys of popular fiction: a Shakespeare quoting millionaire war  hero who respects integrity and is, in his own way, honorable as well.  Peters understands that the best villains in literature have as many  virtues as the hero does, they're just put together differently.	1999-04-20
US	51756900	R1D4PB0UA5G23V	0060929081	900958788	Dereliction of Duty: Johnson, McNamara, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Lies That Led to Vietnam	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Edmund Burke Lives	If you only read one book about the Vietnam War, this is the one to read. Burke said that the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing. This book shows in well written, excellently  researched detail how good soldiers allowed an arrogant civilian elite to  bully them into acquiescing to bad decisions. This is the only book on  bureaucratic history that will raise your blood pressure. There was no  conspiracy, just bureaucracy, careerism and the sort of hubris that is the  Ivy League's chief product these days.	1999-04-20
US	51756900	R38HMXHZFF0ZML	1557501564	218007375	The Unsinkable Fleet: The Politics of U.S. Navy Expansion in World War II	Books	5	10	13	N	N	How bureaucratic process affects events	Americans tend to suffer from a triumphalist sense of history: we won, so we did everything right. Davidson provides a needed corrective in showing how a bureaucratically savvy Admiral King outmaneuvered the passive General  Marshall to build a navy far bigger than we needed and delayed the build-up  of the army. Davidson's account is too objective and focused to take a  stand on the implications of this Pentagon battle, but it seems very likely  that World War II lasted longer than it might have done otherwise. Since  the last year of the war saw huge territorial gains for Stalin and the  deaths of a large proprtion of the victims of the holocaust, this book is a  crucial reminder for all military staffers and budget planners that  decisions made in the conference rooms translates into losses of blood and  treasure whether one is victorious or not.	1999-04-15
