US	51752004	R1LKZNV3ZJRNY9	0972238549	282728129	The Butterfly Game	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Gloria Davidson Marlow crafts an outstanding mystery!	Jenny Lewis, a plain, ordinary looking teacher, has a secret.  Once hailed as the \\"Butterfly Girl\\" by a famous cosmetics company, she now hides from her past, haunted by an attack that left her frightened of life.  But the past is back.  Jenny learns that the man who left her for dead is killing again.  He wants to capture the one butterfly who flew away - and Jenny believes that she has no choice but to confront him.  Jenny is torn between almost certain death and a love that sees beyond the outside and into her heart. <br /> <br />Gloria Davidson Marlow has crafted an outstanding mystery.  Her characters are deftly drawn and her plot is utterly compelling.  Marlow follows closely in the footsteps of Mary Higgins Clark.  \\"The Butterfly Game\\" is a must read for mystery fans!    <br /> <br />Highly recommended!	2004-10-15
US	51752004	R2LORE6RLI213Q	074140916X	673872544	Threads: The Reincarnation of Anne Boleyn	Books	5	67	72	N	N	Threads is an unforgettable novel...	Nell Gavin has brought Anne Boleyn, the second wife of Henry VIII, to vibrant life in her unusual historical novel, \\"Threads.\\"  Anne's path from that of an unloved and abused young girl, to the position of Queen of England, is presented by Anne herself as she looks back upon the circumstances that eventually led to her execution.  Although there really isn't a lot of actual historical information about Anne, Gavin has created believable personalities with strengths and weaknesses, imperfections and understandable desires.  Using a combination of fact and legend, she tells a story of passion, obsession, and heartbreak that will capture readers with its depth and humanity.   <br /> <br />Gavin uses the fictional concept of reincarnation to showcase all of the characters that make up what is truly a tragic tale of love and betrayal.  In several different \\"reincarnations,\\" Anne and Henry, along with family, friends, and lost loves, are placed into different life situations, each one exploring another facet of personality and circumstances.  The technique is unique, intriguing, and in the end, beautifully coaxes the dark ghosts of a long dead past into the present for an introduction readers won't soon forget. <br /> <br />\\"Threads\\" is a remarkable effort.  It is, without a doubt, one of the best historical novels I've every read.  I give it my very highest recommendation! <br /> <br />   <br />	2004-10-15
US	51752004	R1VQ0Q5H9IRUM4	0972830308	931209026	Joint Eagles	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Top Notch Thriller!	Tom Clancy, move over and make room!  Robert Hagan has crafted a top-notch political thriller in \\"Joint Eagles.\\"<br />A huge stash of nuclear weapons is missing.  Russia and the United States forge an uneasy alliance designed to find the weapons before something catastrophic happens.  Can these old enemies work together to stop a plan designed to bring America to its knees?  Or is it already too late?<br />\\"Joint Eagles\\" is a complex and astonishing look into the hidden rooms of power.  Hagan's knowledge of the subject matter adds an air of frightening authenticity.  This is an edge-of-your-seat thrill ride that will keep you turning the pages.<br />Highly recommended!	2004-02-18
US	51752004	R2MHXLDPJY61YB	1931468044	309896647	Leeward: A Strange Story	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Terrific Thriller!	Author David Bradley has crafted an intriguing story about a group of people who end up at the Leeward Hotel on the small island of St. Barbe.  Tragedy binds them together.  Each one has lost someone close to them - but death hasn't been satisfied.  There is something else on the island - and monster nicknamed \\"The Guard.\\"  The island police don't want anyone to leave, and a mysterious group called \\"The Organization\\" appears to have a hidden agenda that could cause destruction to many people beyond the tiny island.<br />\\"Leeward\\" is an intricate thriller that will leave you on the edge of your seat.  I look forward to more of David Bradley's work.	2003-08-16
US	51752004	R2KJMTNFL67EVD	1590580176	378662259	Primitive Secrets (Storm Kayama Mysteries)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Highly Recommended!	Storm Kayama is turning her rebellious past into a promising future.  She's working hard to get her law degree while clerking for her adoptive father, lawyer Miles Hamasaki, on the island of Honolulu.  Miles was her real father's best friend.  When Storm's father died, Miles welcomed her into his home and his heart.  <br />Now, the unthinkable has happened.  Miles has been found dead in his office.  Storm begins to notice things that don't make sense.  She decides to find out what really happened.  As she gets closer to the truth, her own life is threatened.  <br />Deborah Turrell Atkinson has crafted a superb novel, set beautifully in the middle of the mystery and myth of Hawaii.  Ancient superstitions and modern realities wage a battle for justice in an exciting story that will keep readers guessing until the end.  <br />I highly recommend PRIMITIVE SECRETS and look forward to more from this talented author.	2003-05-15
US	51752004	R3E27I6V1ECE1C	1588512886	539824220	Your Mother Has Suffered a Slight Stroke	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Excerpt from MyShelf.com Review	Anyone who is facing the prospect of making decisions for a family member who is ill or frail should read this book.  Some of the information shared is vital - not only on an emotional level, but a financial one as well.  Many people make mistakes when choosing nursing home care.  Bosworth shares things that readers can use to assist them in finding the best care available for their loved one.  She also stresses the importance of making your personal wishes known to your family before they are thrown into a whirlwind of confusion should you suffer an unexpected medical emergency.<br />Bosworth never succumbs to self-pity, yet she shares her heart and her pain in a way that makes the reader part of the journey.  I was struck with her compassion and her honesty.  After reading YOUR MOTHER HAS SUFFERED A SLIGHT STROKE, you will feel as if you have gained more than the sharing of a painful experience - you will feel as if you've made a new friend.  This book is a treasure.<br />Highly recommended.	2003-03-18
US	51752004	R1Y6NU61JEKVO6	1590580303	742842242	Desert Wives (Lena Jones Series)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excerpt from MyShelf.com Review	Betty Webb has created a character who will keep you coming back for more.  Lena's own tragic past is woven through every case she takes and every relationship she has.  DESERT WIVES brings us a little closer to the truth - but there are still mysteries to unlock.  Not only inside Lena, but also in the tightly written, suspenseful plots so masterfully delivered by this author.  This is a compelling novel that I just couldn't put down.  The subject matter is even more disturbing because of its awful reality.  <br />Last year, DESERT NOIR, made my Top Ten list.  This year, DESERT WIVES makes the list again.  Keep `em coming, Betty!<br />HIGHEST RECOMMENDATION	2003-03-15
US	51752004	RAL2RWULQM2P3	1592862187	387231093	Death by Bad Magic	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excerpt from MyShelf.com	Violet Towe has combined mystery and fantasy into an engrossing novel that is hard to put down.  Although she takes a chance by creating characters and situations that are definitely over the edge of believability, somehow, it works to create a wonderful tale that will leave you breathless.  Her thorough research into the Voodoo religion adds credibility to this novel, making it even more fascinating.  Her imaginative characters and creations are vividly painted and exciting.<br />Death by Bad Magic will keep you turning the pages.  It is entertaining and different.  I thoroughly enjoyed it.	2003-03-14
US	51752004	R1XWK95WHOX4GS	1403370605	3181710	The Alley of Wishes	Books	5	11	11	N	N	From MyShelf.com	When the stories of a war in Europe reach Beck Sanow, a farm boy in Frankfort, Kansas, he makes the decision to join the fighting on the front lines.  His dreams of Paris, her beauty and her love of art, fuel the young painter to protect the city he longs to experience.  But the horror of war is beyond his endurance.  After undergoing more than three years of hell on earth, Beck Sanow, now a shadow of the young man who ventured to the other side of the ocean to battle for his dreams - has none left inside.  Broken, devastated, and alone, he fights his way back to Paris.  A kindly concierge at the Hotel DeVille, takes pity on the wraithlike man whose dead eyes see nothing beyond the darkness of his own soul.  Jean Clerc takes Beck in, giving him a place to lay his head and food to feed his body.  His spirit is another matter.  Jean has no cure for what ails the broken man.  Perhaps he is beyond help - destroyed by the evil that men perpetuate on each other.<br />One night, as Beck sits in a French bistro, a young woman begins to sing.  Her song and her presence touch a heart he thought he no longer possessed.  Something in her large, luminous eyes brings a touch of light to the blackness that envelopes him.  When another man savagely beats Cerise, Beck cares for her.  As her injuries heal, his inner wounds begin to mend as well.  Beck knows he must face his past and confront the nightmares that rage inside him.  With Cerise by his side, he believes he can once again find the Beck Sanow he left for dead on a bloody European battlefield.  But tragedy has another plan for the lovers.  Can love really conquer all - or can the human soul wander so far from the light that it can never find its way back?<br />Laurel Johnson has penned a modern masterpiece.  Her poetic words flow seamlessly, creating a story of incredible depth.  Beck and Cerise become flesh and bone as the reader feels their pain and celebrates their triumph.  Johnson clearly displays her natural ability asa storyteller and her deep understanding of the human spirit.<br />THE ALLEY OF WISHES is a book no one should miss - and no one will forget.<br />HIGHEST RECOMMENDATION.	2003-02-02
US	51752004	R18PJQPS7U1AAW	0451205480	756631278	Murder of a Sleeping Beauty (Scumble River Mysteries, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	From MyShelf.com	Skye Denison, school psychologist at Scumble River High School, stumbles across the girl who is playing the lead role in the spring musical, Sleeping Beauty.  The problem is that Sleeping Beauty won't wake up.  Not even Prince Charming can save this princess.  Her slumber is permanent.  The question is; who gave Sleeping Beauty poison this time?  Skye delves into an investigation on her own since her once romantic relationship with the chief of police, Wally Boyd, is a thing of the past.  Skye learns that the dead girl, Lorelei Ingels, was entrenched in the world of beauty pageants.  Could someone be jealous of her success?  Or could there be another reason?<br />Skye is stonewalled by parents and students alike as she tries to find out who Lorelei really was.  She appears to have been a popular student, but sometimes popularity comes with a price.  Skye must find out if the price in this case was murder.<br />MURDER OF A SLEEPING BEAUTY is an enjoyable mystery.  It moves along nicely and holds a reader's interest.  It is well-plotted and well-written.  I particularly like that the protagonist is \\"full-figured\\" and easy to relate to.<br />Denise Swanson has a winning series here.  Scumble River is a place I'll visit again and again!	2002-11-04
US	51752004	R2QGBT8Y8ZJFAT	0451205480	756631278	Murder of a Sleeping Beauty (Scumble River Mysteries, Book 3)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	From MyShelf.com	Skye Denison, school psychologist at Scumble River High School, stumbles across the girl who is playing the lead role in the spring musical, Sleeping Beauty.  The problem is that Sleeping Beauty won't wake up.  Not even Prince Charming can save this princess.  Her slumber is permanent.  The question is; who gave Sleeping Beauty poison this time?  Skye delves into an investigation on her own since her once romantic relationship with the chief of police, Wally Boyd, is a thing of the past.  Skye learns that the dead girl, Lorelei Ingels, was entrenched in the world of beauty pageants.  Could someone be jealous of her success?  Or could there be another reason?<br />Skye is stonewalled by parents and students alike as she tries to find out who Lorelei really was.  She appears to have been a popular student, but sometimes popularity comes with a price.  Skye must find out if the price in this case was murder.<br />MURDER OF A SLEEPING BEAUTY is an enjoyable mystery.  It moves along nicely and holds a reader's interest.  It is well-plotted and well-written.  I particularly like that the protagonist is \\"full-figured\\" and easy to relate to.<br />Denise Swanson has a winning series here.  Scumble River is a place I'll visit again and again!	2002-11-04
US	51752004	R33MSGLO7QJQYD	1591291852	571885115	Who Needs a Hero	Books	5	1	2	N	N	From MyShelf.com	Aston West was once a pilot for the Gryphon Defense Force - but things have changed.  Now, he works as a scavenger pirate, making his living by finding abandoned cargo and selling it to the highest bidder.  A much safer line of work...or so he thought.  During the delivery of a cargo of blue crystals to a contact on the planet Toris, he happens upon a seemingly deserted Rulusian freighter.  His computer reports that there is cargo on board, and Aston's greed leads him to board the ship.  Unfortunately, he finds much more than he bargained for.  Along with a shipment of illegal weapons, he discovers the bodies of the Rulusian crew - and one survivor from the dead ship - a woman named Rione Sc'lari.  As Torian ships surround the floating graveyard, Aston and Rione flee back to Aston's ship before they are destroyed with the rest of the freighter.<br />Rione is an enigma.  Who is she and what does she really want? There is a civil war raging on Toris - and Aston reluctantly finds himself thrust right in the middle of it.  What is Rione's part in the danger that swirls around him?  Before all his questions are answered, he will have to reach down deep inside himself to find out whether a trace of the man he used to be survives.  The question may not be who needs a hero, but whether or not a hero can be found in the person of Aston West.<br />T.M. Hunter has written a fast-paced, entertaining story that is hard to put down.  The writing is clear and direct, and the plot will keep the reader turning the pages.  The worlds he has created are creatively developed.  Sci-fi readers will enjoy WHO NEEDS A HERO.  So will anyone who likes a good story.	2002-11-01
US	51752004	R34G5JZL2Y82UL	0375502238	955709915	Blessings	Books	5	0	6	N	N	A Beautiful Story by a Super Author	BLESSINGS is the story of a young boy whose past life is built on failure.  A chance meeting with an unusual old woman, and the discovery of an abandoned baby, sets the stage for a powerful and heart-wrenching story.<br />Anna Quindlen reaches into the hearts of her characters and takes readers on an emotional journey that will stay with you for a long time.	2002-10-24
US	51752004	R30YAJKDFF3EYZ	0679439382	39256491	The Little Friend	Books	5	12	18	N	N	Absolutely Mesmerizing	This is a breathtaking story that looks into the heart of the human condition.  As a young girl searches for the person who murdered her brother, she faces the ugly truth about racism, hate, and the evil that people hide away - even from themselves.  A novel that has all the tension of a thriller, it also has great emotional depth.<br />This is a book that readers will not soon forget - by a writer that will be around for a long time.	2002-10-24
US	51752004	R2QYTNL26GVGQS	0399149155	249229548	Q is for Quarry: A Kinsey Millhone Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another Super Offering in the Grafton Series	Sue Grafton's Kinsey Millhone is at it again.  Brought into a case that is 18 years old, she tries to discover the identity of a young woman who was murdered, her body found in a quarry.  But Kinsey's investigation stirs up something that no one anticipated.  Two additional murders make the supposedly cold case hot again.  <br />Grafton's Kinsey Millhone is a well defined character that followers of this series rely upon for her intuition and intelligence.  This is a super addition to the long line of \\"alphabet\\" murder mysteries.<br />The only question is...what happens when Kinsey reaches the \\"Z\\"enith in her case file?  Will we start over again?  Or is it all over for Kinsey Millhone?	2002-10-23
US	51752004	R4DVXAKDBZZ05	1587520397	591514419	Soldier of the Legion (Beta 3 Series, 1)	Books	5	22	29	N	N	From MyShelf.com	Beta 3, called \\"Thinker,\\" because others see his capacity to reason even though he has been trained to react instantly as a part of a military team, is sent with his detachment to Andrion 2 to secure the planet.  He is part of \\"The Legion,\\" an army sworn to protect to the death.  And death is the price a soldier of the Legion must be willing to pay to defend the Confederation of Free Worlds against the \\"System.\\"  Although an uneasy truce exists between \\"ConFree\\" and the System, unusual activity on Andrion 2 leads the Legion to speculate about possible illegal actions from the \\"Systies.\\"  Thinker is part of a unit.  Each soldier has a unique personality.  Some, Thinker is convinced, are insane.  But in the Legion, they are brothers.  One mind - one heart - and one life.<br />The planet is inhabited by a people the soldiers refer to rather derisively as \\"Scalers.\\"  These people, actually called the \\"Taka,\\" attack the Legion.  But, when they are saved by the soldiers from the disgusting exosegs, horrible, deadly creatures that aren't supposed to be on Andrion 2, the Taka declare their loyalty to the Legion.  <br />What is happening on the planet?  Are the Systies there?  How did the exosegs get to Andrion 2?  Nothing makes sense.  Thinker's sense of alarm is muted by his desire for another soldier, Priestess - and the conflict he feels when a past love from his training days on Planet Hell shows up and declares that she and Thinker are tied together for eternity.  Where is his heart?  Does it belong to Priestess or Valkyrie?  Is this emotional battle compromising his ability to sense danger?  Thinker needs all of his wits and training - because there is a surprise on Andrion 2.  One more diabolic and dangerous than any of the soldiers have prepared themselves for.<br />SOLIDER OF THE LEGION is a deep, rich story that captures the heart of Sci-fi while bringing the elements of suspense, mystery, horror, and romance together and blending them into a perfect story that everyone will enjoy.  Thomas's talent as a writer shines through the action, making the dialogue captivating, and in many passages, moving.  His protagonist, Thinker, may be involved in a life that few of us have experienced, but Thomas keeps Thinker so human that we are able to experience the joy, the pain, and the fear that a soldier of the Legion endures while putting his or her life on the line without question.<br />I highly recommend SOLDIER OF THE LEGION, one the best books I've read this year!   Watch for the next books in this exciting series!	2002-09-13
US	51752004	R3N2RD23BYFQQZ	1588517489	515761277	Sweet Revenge	Books	5	1	1	N	N	From MyShelf.com	Things seem to have finally smoothed out in Claire Cunningham's life.  Her four-year-old son, Toby, has recovered from the death of his father, even though he still clings to Claire a little more than he should.  And, Claire has a boyfriend, Michael.  But when Toby expresses his doubts about Michael, \\"His mouth smiles at me, but his eyes look mad,\\" Claire decides to end the relationship.  Before she has a chance to inform Michael that their affair is over, Claire's life turns down a dark and devastating road - taking away everything that is important to her, leaving her with nothing but hate - and the need for revenge.<br />In the middle of the storm that rages around her, Claire meets a rancher, Glen Howell.  Glen is kind and solicitous, but Claire reacts with fear because of his green eyes.  What is it about green eyes that frighten her?  As Glen and the Chief of Police try to put together the pieces of Claire's broken life, she discovers secrets that hold a horrible truth - something she will decide to deal with in her own way.<br />Claire's justice is fueled by revenge.  And there will be a price to pay.  SWEET REVENGE will search the hearts of all concerned - including the reader's.  A surprise ending is delivered with finesse.  You won't forget Claire's story for a long, long time.<br />Brown delivers SWEET REVENGE with excellent writing and masterful story-telling skills.  This is an easy to read, but hard to put down novel that presents more than a story.  It presents an experience.<br />I highly recommend SWEET REVENGE and can hardly wait for D.J. Brown's next novel.	2002-09-13
US	51752004	R1YUBC06WHRV69	0380978741	762856232	Black River: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	From MyShelf.com	Frank Corso, a true crime writer in Seattle, is following the case of Nicholas Balagula, a mobster who finally cut one corner too many.  A hospital in California has collapsed, killing 63 people, 41 of them children.  Balagula's sticky fingerprints are all over the tragedy, and Corso wants to see justice finally visited on this \\"Teflon Don.\\"  But the paths that lead back to Balagula are many - and unraveling them will take all the talent and courage Corso has.  What does truck found with a body that is riddled with bullets from three different guns have to do with a vicious attack on a former girlfriend, Meg Doughtery, that leaves her life hanging by a thread?  And how do the bodies of two previous witnesses against Balagula that were found floating in the river connect to the disappearance of a man Meg had gone to interview before her car was forced into a devastating accident?  What picture are all these seemingly unconnected pieces forming?  Are they actually connected?  And, can Corso find the truth before the mobster walks away from all the voices of pain and death that cry out for justice?  <br />Frank Corso sees himself as a flawed human being.  He is flawed more than some - but much more human than many.  He is likable without wanting you to like him - and appealing without trying to appeal to anyone except himself and his own conscience.<br />BLACK RIVER is an edge-of-your seat thriller.  The action never stops, and the plot moves quickly, pulling you along with it.  This is a hard-boiled detective mystery with a heart.  Frank Corso is someone I will have to visit again.  I cared about this case and I cared about Corso.<br />I highly recommend BLACK RIVER.	2002-09-13
US	51752004	R1MISHXKA4T6C7	0316154059	817062475	City of Bones	Books	5	12	15	N	N	From MyShelf.com	Detective Hieronymous \\"Harry\\" Bosch and his partner, Jerry Edgar, are given the almost impossible task of solving the murder of a young boy who suffered horrendous abuse before his death.  The problem?  The boy has been dead for twenty years.  <br />When a man out walking his dog comes across bones that look human, the police are called, and Harry is thrown into a strange and emotionally wrenching case that brings back his own troubled childhood.  When the identity of the boy is discovered, the trail leads back to a suspect who subsequently kills himself.  But was this really the murderer?   Harry isn't so sure.<br />Harry's relationship with an attractive rookie cop, Julia Brasher, adds conflict to his already troubled psyche.  However, when the love affair turns disastrous, and the reasons for the an unexpected tragedy become clear, Harry Bosch finds the line between good and evil irreparably broken.  His reaction will leave readers wondering about the future of the Harry Bosch series.<br />Michael Connelly presents CITY OF BONES with simplicity - and unforgettable emotional power.  In this eighth book in the series, the reader will identify with Harry - even if this is the first time you've met this agonized detective.  Connelly is a masterful storyteller - throwing us headlong into his disturbing story and characters without making us feel manipulated in any way.  It is a detective story with a heart - one that may have finally been broken. <br />I highly recommend CITY OF BONES.	2002-08-03
US	51752004	R21S8MC9OOAN75	0670894494	939558795	The Passion of Artemisia	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Review from MyShelf.com	\\"At some times in our lives, our passion makes us perpetrators of hurt and loss.  At other times we are the ones who are hurt - all in name of art.  Sometimes we get what we want.  Sometimes we pay for another to get what he or she wants.\\"  I looked at Palmira apologetically.  \\"That's the way the world works.\\" <br />Artemisia Gentileschi from THE PASSION OF ARTEMISIA<br />THE PASSION OF ARTEMISIA, is the story of Italian artist Artemisia Gentileschi. (1593-1653).  The novel opens with Artemisia as a teenager.  She has been raped by her painting teacher, a friend of her father's, but keeps the secret of the outrage because he tells her he loves her and promises to marry her.<br />Artemisia's father discovers the truth and files charges against Agostino Tassi.  The young girl finds herself a participant in a papal court.  Her cruel treatment at the hands of the court, the realization that her father's actions are not fueled by concern for her, but by his own selfish motives, and the release of her abuser, lead Artemisia to accept an arranged marriage to a stranger.  However, she is grateful to leave Rome and go with her new husband to Florence, a city rich in artistic heritage.<br />Artemisia attempts to follow her passion - her painting - while hoping that she can also finally find the kind of love that holds no betrayal or pain.  But is there room for both in her life?  And what will be the cost if she follows her dream?<br />THE PASSION OF ARTEMISIA is another masterpiece painted from the heart of its author, Susan Vreeland.  Like GIRL IN HYACINTH BLUE, Susan's previous novel, the reader is pulled into the dimness of the past and the existence of a world long gone.  Susan breathes life into the shadows and brings Artemisia and those around her into vibrant and living color.<br />Reading a novel penned by this great talent is like stepping out of one existence into another.  Losing yourself in the stories that Susan Vreeland paints is a breath-taking and wonderful excursion - one everyone who loves to read should experience.   <br />THE PASSION OF ARTEMISIA has my very highest recommendation.<br />...	2002-07-07
US	51752004	R3CGEX23KZCNN7	0743206045	991690611	Daddy's Little Girl	Books	5	14	17	N	N	MyShelf.com Review	Ellie Cavanaugh is only seven years old when her sister, Andrea, is brutally murdered.  A clandestine tryst with a boyfriend results in death, and Ellie is haunted by the knowledge that if she hadn't kept the meeting secret, her sister's life might have been saved.  Her parents also seem to blame her, and she holds the guilt deep inside her soul.  The boy Andrea was to meet that night, Rob Westerfield, is convicted of the murder and sent to prison, all the while professing his innocence. <br />Now, over twenty years later, Westerfield, is up for parole, and Ellie, an investigative reporter for a newspaper in Atlanta, finds out that he intends to seek a new trial.  New evidence, supposedly found by an author who is writing a book about the case, is being touted by the wealthy Westerfield family as the key to finally exonerating their family name.  Ellie is working on her own book, and maintains a website that she uses to prove Rob Westerfield was the person who murdered Andrea.  She is determined to stop her sister's killer from walking away from his crime.  <br />DADDY'S LITTLE GIRL is Mary Higgins Clark at her best.  The story is engrossing and the plot holds the reader from beginning to end.  Clark's first attempt at writing in the  first person point-of-view is a success.  A MHC novel isn't great literature - it is exactly what it is supposed to be.  An easy to read, compelling story that gives the reader an enjoyable respite from reality.  All in all, a pretty impressive achievement.	2002-06-23
US	51752004	R3R4CC1ZDGB2VR	1591290201	865652448	Sock Monkey Blues	Books	5	3	4	N	N	From MyShelf.com	Joe Box is an enigma.  Living life as a hard-drinking, hard-thinking detective in Cincinnati, he could almost be a stereotypical figure.  But beneath his rough and tumble surface lies a conflicted man who struggles to live by his own code.  Originally from Kentucky, he is a throwback to the quintessential \\"Southern Gentleman.\\"  Armed with the wisdom of his departed grandmother echoing in his psyche and his gun securely strapped to his body, he thinks he is ready for anything.  However, when he is asked to take on the case of an industrialist's missing daughter, neither his Grandma nor his gun can help him this time.  Something else is lurking in the shadows - something Joe has never faced before.  Something he knows he isn't equipped to face and walk away from alive.  The missing girl is being held prisoner by a madman with a plan that is fueled by the fires of hell itself.  Joe Box must seek help from above, but to do that, first he must face his greatest fear - himself. <br />SOCK MONKEY BLUES is a surprising novel.  I fell in love with it from the first page.  I was delighted with its humor, engrossed in its terrifying plot, inspired by its portrayal of faith, and brought to tears through its raw and emotional look into the soul of Joe Box.  The writing is deftly delivered by author John Laurence Robinson, who has the ability to bring his story and characters to life in a unique and powerful way.  <br />One of the best novels I've ever had the privilege to read, SOCK MONKEY BLUES rates my very highest recommendation.  I can hardly wait for the next one.	2002-06-22
US	51752004	R3TPGRBCRA7KHL	1575666871	563335234	Murder By Manicure (Bad Hair Day Mystery)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	From MyShelf.com	Marla Shore isn't really looking for dead bodies but they do manage to keep showing up at the most inconvenient times.  A free trial membership to the Perfect Fit Sports Club turns out to be more than she bargained for.  Jolene Myers, a customer at Marla's beauty salon, Cut `N Dye, is found floating in the whirlpool, and Marla finds herself in the middle of a confusing and dangerous cast of characters and motives.<br />Who murdered Jolene?  Could it be Cookie Calcone, the animal rights activist who threatened Jolene shortly before her unfortunate death?  And what about the rumors regarding Jolene and Sam Zelman?  Were they having an affair?  Could Sam's wife, Eloise, be the murderer?  The staff at the Sports Club appear to be hiding something, as do several of the citizens of Palm Haven, a small Florida community that certainly seems to have its share of secrets. <br />Marla launches into tracking down another killer with the same chutzpah seen in her previous two cases featured in the first two novels of THE BAD HAIR DAY MYSTERIES: PERMED TO DEATH and HAIRAISER.  Along for the ride again this time is her best friend, Tally, and police Lieutenant Dalton Vail, whose chiseled good looks still make Marla wonder if her fear of intimacy isn't a little overdeveloped. <br />MURDER BY MANICURE continues a fine series by Nancy J. Cohen.  Fast paced and interesting, it is full of rich characters and attention grabbing plot twists.  Cohen has developed Marla Shore into an appealing detective to whom readers can easily connect.  When it comes to murder, Marla proves the old adage true - Only your hairdresser knows for sure!	2002-05-29
US	51752004	R3358UKMRFCK3R	1590580044	409229637	Bermuda Grass	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Hole in One!	Alan Saxon, a well known professional golfer, and past winner of the British Open, comes to Bermuda to assist in designing a golf course at an upscale resort.  He wants to spend some time with his daughter, Lynette, on holiday from Oxford, but his plans are complicated through a friend Lynette brings with her.  Jessica Hadlow is the spoiled, incorrigible daughter of a rich, international businessman.  While Lynette and Jessica spend much of their time with two young men they've met at the resort, Alan deals with a string of continuous and disconcerting problems that plague the construction of the golf course.  When the complications include murder, and the girls are kidnapped, Alan realizes that it's no longer about a game - someone is playing for keeps.<br />While Alan fights to keep his partner in Bermuda and the golf course project alive, his ex-wife flies out to join in the search for their daughter.  Jessica's father, a decidedly unpleasant man, also comes to Bermuda.  Balancing the kidnappers, his ex-wife, Jessica's angry father, his partner, an attractive woman he met just before the kidnapping, and the hotel management, becomes quite a challenge as Alan sorts through the available clues - hoping to discover a way to bring his daughter back alive.<br />BERMUDA GRASS is a very well written, engrossing novel.  The characterizations are effective, giving the story a compelling sense of reality.  The \\"golf\\" environment is exploited just enough to capture the reader's interest, but will not turn off those who are not involved in the game.  The mystery aspect is handled masterfully.  Miles presents several possibilities - teasing the reader with each one - and in the end, delivering a solid and satisfying conclusion.<br />I highly recommend BERMUDA GRASS.	2002-05-29
US	51752004	RD7DG80MQPQJT	0595179762	199036678	Food, Drink, and the Female Sleuth	Books	5	1	1	N	N	From MyShelf.com	Patricia Wells Lunneborg, a retired professor of psychology, and her sister, Roberta Wells Ryan, a retired writer-editor, have put together a fascinating book that tracks the relationship of food in the lives of some the most popular female sleuths in the literary world.<br />Nevada Barr, Margaret Chittenden, Susan Dunlap, Patricia Cornwell, Janet Evanovich, Earlene Fowler, Sue Grafton, Carolyn Hart, Laura Lippman, Margaret Maron, Marcia Muller, Sara Paretsky, Nancy Pickard, and Dana Stabenow are just a few of the women writers featured in this intriguing collection.<br />For readers, this is an interesting look into the personalities of characters whose dining tendencies range from the sophisticated - to one step beyond eating out of the trash can!  If you've never read a Sue Grafton novel, come and meet PI Kinsey Malone - over skim milk and Cheerios - eaten while standing over the kitchen sink.  <br />For writers, this book should be a permanent fixture - right next to their thesaurus.   FOOD, DRINK, AND THE FEMALE SLEUTH is a perfect example of the art of developing complex characters.   Our food choices, along with the way we eat, can speak volumes about us.  The detective who won't cook, shunning healthy food for junk food, shows us she is reckless and down to earth.  A protagonist whose cupboards are bare is obviously driven in areas beyond her kitchen. <br />There are lots of fun examples detailing the personal eating habits of famous female sleuths in this jam-packed book.  I guarantee that anyone who loves food, loves to read, or has ever had a question about character development, will find FOOD, DRINK, AND THE FEMALE SLEUTH an absolute treasure!	2002-05-29
US	51752004	R3JF6HKH4F0OYI	0738841226	230705228	Jezebel	Books	5	9	10	N	N	From MyShelf.com	What makes docile pets become vicious - turning on their owners with savage fury?  Animal Control Director, Tony Parker, has to find out - and quickly.  People in Wichita, Kansas are being torn to bits with alarming regularity.  <br />During what is believed to be the first attack - on a nice elderly gentleman who lived, and then obviously died, for his two dogs - a hellish hound is unleashed on the good citizens of Wichita.  One of the victim's pets, a huge black Great Dane named Jezebel, is on the loose.  Her size seems to be matched only by her fury.<br />Tony, a happily married man whose life has settled into a comfortable place, is being pursued by his partner, Sarah Hill.  She is a hot-to-trot vixen who has her sights set squarely on him.  He doesn't really want to cheat on his wife - but Sarah has no concerns about his marriage or his morals.  Her only concern is for her own libido - and protecting their lives against a world of canines gone crazy.  Her relentless quest for Tony is sparking reactions in him he didn't expect and doesn't know if he can control.  He isn't sure if \\"comfortable\\" is what he wants anymore.<br />Lt. Jack Simpson, a member of the Wichita Police Department, joins his long-time friend in a frantic chase to find answers to questions they're not sure they understand - before anyone else dies.  One other small problem: Tony's been bitten by a skunk.  Could the animal be rabid?  Is Tony chasing death on four legs - with his own demise following close behind?<br />Gordon Kessler has crafted a compelling and intense novel that grabs you by the throat and won't let go.  His characters are well drawn and complex.  You'll find yourself yelling out loud at them in either fear or frustration.  The plot is full of twists and turns that never let you relax.  <br />JEZEBEL is definitely a book you will remember.  You may also find yourself looking a little nervously at your beloved pet.  Is that a smile - or could it be a snarl...?<br />HIGHLY RECOMMENDED	2002-05-29
US	51752004	R2GIDZSUUBWNU4	0595197752	181304268	Full Circle	Books	5	7	7	N	N	From MyShelf.com	Penny Mackenzie is the Lifestyle Editor for The Pearl Outrider - the local newspaper for the small town of Pearl.  Her friend, Maxie Harper, reporter for the Outrider, talks her into a late night stakeout.  Although a tip that local eighth graders are worshipping the devil and doing human sacrifices turns into nothing more than a pot party, the discovery of a skeleton in a nearby cotton field, throws Pearl into a frenzy of secrets, lies - and murder.  Penny finds Maxie's body during an event put on by the Chamber of Commerce.  Dinner in the Round is a progressive event that takes the participants to several locations for different parts of the dinner.  However, Maxie's progress is ended permanently - at Egg Foo's Bar and Grill.  <br />Who killed Maxie Harper and why?  What does the book, Pearl, The Little Town That Gold Built, written by Dabney Brewster, a retired English teacher and the town's local historian, have to do with her death?  And whose skeleton has been hiding all these years in Digger Pott's field?<br />As these questions swirl around Penny like crazy birds trying to find a place to land, Pearl's unique citizens create more questions than answers while a long lost love interest pops back into Penny's life, complicating matters even more.<br />In this stunning debut series novel, Pat Browning has created a wonderful protagonist and surrounded her with interesting side characters.  Penny and Pearl hold the promise of many more intriguing adventures.  Browning's writing is professional and flawless and the story is engrossing, with just the right touch of suspense and humor.<br />This is a winning cozy - from an exciting new author.  I'll be watching for the next book in the series - and the next - and the next....<br />I give FULL CIRCLE my highest recommendation!	2002-05-29
US	51752004	R3J9DC17Z78VOA	1588514455	241244936	The Grass Dance	Books	5	24	28	N	N	The Grass Dance is a book everyone should read!	Full Circle - From THE GRASS DANCE<br />I started life infused by dreams<BR>Of childlike wonder -<BR>Bedazzled by the possibilities<BR>until advancing years and their realities<BR>set in and I began to drown in them.<BR>Gone were the childish dreams,<BR>along with endless hopes they carried with them.<BR>I lost courage for awhile,<BR>stopped seeing life as beautiful and wondrous,<BR>forgot to look at daffodils and blue birds<BR>and marvel at their symmetry,<BR>lost track of what a blessed life I have.<BR>But now my life has come full circle.<BR>The wonder has returned<BR>accompanied by hopes and possibilities<BR>so great my mind can scarcely grasp them.<br />Laurel Johnson's story actually begins many, many years before her birth.  In fact, her life began twice, once as a baby, and again, through an old, weathered Indian named John.<br />\\"Indian John\\" was her grandparents' hired hand.  Through the years, he became their best friend.  John was the kind of man who carried his grace and wisdom with incredible dignity and undeniable love.  Loyalty was as real to him as a deal struck with God Himself.  Who could know his commitment to his treasured friends would go beyond the grave and reach out to their grandchild in her hour of need?  But that is exactly what happened.<br />Laurel Johnson's life was spiraling out of control.  Captured by despair and madness, she saw no hope - no way out - until a man she'd never met sent a message that changed her life.<br />THE GRASS DANCE is truly one of the most special books I've ever read.  Written beautifully, with powerful imagery, it's a wonderful story of hope and resurrection for men, women, and children alike.  A book to cherish.  I keep this book near me - knowing that it has been filled with a power beyond what we see and what we think we know.<br />I intend to always have several copies of this book on hand - to give to anyone who needs to know that they are loved, special, and never alone.  Indian John has a message forus.  My thanks to Laurel Johnson for delivering it for him.<br />MY HIGHEST RECOMMENDATION.	2002-04-25
US	51752004	RPGW52RXCO0V5	1588517152	55484700	Flowers For Megan	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Super Mystery by an Exciting New Author!	Megan Hardy and Will Kincaid grew up together.  Born only three hours apart, as small children they are inseparable.  In fact, people in their small town refer to them as \\"the twins.\\"  After Megan's parents are killed in a car accident, she goes to live with her sister Tessa, leaving her hometown - and Will - behind.  When the \\"twins\\" turn fifteen, Megan and her sister's family move back to town.<br />When Will sees Megan again, his attitude toward her begins to change.  He no long wants to be her \\"twin.\\"  He wants something more.  The same day he lets her know his true feelings for her, the unthinkable happens.  Megan returns home to discover that Tessa and her two children have been brutally murdered.  As Megan retreats into a world of depression and grief, Will finds that he can't stand by and watch her self-destruct.  He leaves town, abandoning Megan and, he thinks, his love for her.<br />Now, years later, he receives a letter in the mail.  His mother is ill, and Megan asks him to come home.  He drops everything and heads back to be with his ailing mother - and to face Megan again.  What will he feel when he sees her and what will this trip back into the past do to him - and to her?  Answers begin to come quickly and painfully.  Will must face the truth about himself, that his departure was cowardly and wrong.  And, he must deal with the fact that his love for Megan is still strong.  But he and Megan must also face something else.  Something evil.  His return coincides with a series of murders.  After each killing, Megan receives flowers.  Who is sending the flowers?  What do the murders have to do with her - and with him?  What has awakened the horror that destroyed Megan's family so many years ago?  The questions and suspicions threaten to tear the town apart - and destroy Will's chance to find the love that he and Megan lost so long ago.    <br />FLOWERS FOR MEGAN is an engrossing mystery - hard to put down.  Gloria Marlow's style is reminiscent of Mary Higgins Clark.  The twists and turns will keep you off balance.  The characters are well drawn and compelling.  This is a thoroughly enjoyable mystery by a new and talented author.  More please, Ms. Marlow!	2002-04-18
US	51752004	R2OVQMFYCQXIE5	0595178421	167591985	Dream Tapestry	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Super book by a new and exciting author!	Peejay Novack's young life was impacted deeply by her mother's death from cancer and her father's strange disappearance when she was only thirteen years old.  A reporter, on his way to interview a presidential campaign aide who had a story to tell that could change the results of the upcoming election, Logan Novak seemingly dropped off the face of the earth.  Now, years later, Peejay's beloved grandfather is dead, and she feels truly alone.  Her life changes when she meets a famous author who wants to write a book about her grandfather's life.  Elizabeth Briteful is different from anyone Peejay has ever known.  Her sense of freedom and abandonment intrigue the lonely young girl.  As Peejay explores the possibilities her new life presents to her, and an awakening of her own sexuality, her troubling dreams lead her on a search for the truth about her father.  Old and new relationships start to change and she begins to question the things and people she once had faith in.  When a good friend is found dead, she suspects that someone around her knows more than they're telling.<br />DREAM TAPESTRY is an engrossing novel.  It's well written, and the characters are sharply defined. The plot will keep you involved and guessing every step of the way.  One warning: there is explicit material that may not be everyone's cup of tea.   <br />Ms. McCants is a novelist who will definitely be heard from again.  I'm looking forward to it.	2002-04-17
US	51752004	R3KZFWSLKJQ8OA	1588516202	713075545	When You Wish Upon A Star	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Engrossing book!  Super new author!	Paige Brookhart and her two daughters, Becky and Jess, are running from a nightmare of abuse.  Paige's husband, Justin, has made their lives a living hell for too long.  Paige seeks peace, but she's brought some of her own demons with her. When her car breaks down, a man stops to see if he can help.  Paige is instantly drawn to the handsome rancher, Lance Parish.  She and her daughters go back to Lance's ranch and are offered a job and a place to live.  But, Paige's fears force her to say no.  Instead, she and the girls end up in a women's shelter in Denver.  Her experience there starts her healing process.  She also discovers something she never knew.  Justin married someone else before Paige.  Her marriage to him isn't legal.  Her growth at the shelter, her parents' rejection, and the knowledge that Justin no longer has a claim on her, brings her a sense of freedom.  She contacts Lance and accepts the job as his housekeeper.  She and the girls move out to his ranch in Estes Park.  Lance and Paige begin to have deep feelings for each other, but ghosts from both their pasts whisper words of warning to them that keep them tied in knots of fear.<br />Although Paige prays that her life with Justin is over, Justin is not so forgiving.  He is searching for her - with the goal of exacting revenge.  When he finally finds Paige and the girls, the story climbs to a harrowing climax that ends with a final and fatal finish.<br />WHEN YOU WISH UPON A STAR is a beautiful and moving story about the pain of abuse and the hope of recovery.  Its characters are well defined and real.  I found myself yelling out loud when Paige and Lance faced Justin's deadly anger on the mountain where life and death met in a breathless confrontation.<br />This complex and intriguing novel is one of the best I've ever read.  Nancy Marie is an accomplished author with an important story to tell.  I recommend it highly.	2002-04-10
US	51752004	R1LQJSBYV8LQFF	1588510220	256261026	Tattered Pages	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Wonderful Story	Died in the city of Clover, June 5, 1899, William Johnson, aged 13 years, 3 months, 17 days.  \\"Willie\\" was the second son of Mr. and Mrs. Bill Johnson of this city and was an active, bright, intelligent boy, of a very amiable disposition, ever ready to do a favor or run an errand for parents, sister, brother, or others.  Funeral services were held at the Lutheran church Tuesday afternoon; Rev. Lund delivering an eloquent sermon. The causes of his death were somewhat peculiar and unusually sad.  Surely the parents and kindred have the sympathy of this community, and one of who would have been pleased to perform anything in their power to relieve the one who is now gone, or to ease the grief of the mourning.   <BR>Taken from: TATTERED PAGE: THE LIGHT BLUE RIBBON<br />Verl Fitzgerald is living her dream.  She purchases an old, abandoned bookstore, planning to breathe new life into its dark corners while making available to the residents of Somerville, Kentucky the riches contained within the pages of the books she loves.  However, Verl finds something else tucked inside the pages of one ancient, dust-covered book - the obituary of a boy named Willie Johnson.  The wording of the article grabs her heart, presenting Verl with a mission.  She decides to find Willie's family and give the obituary and the book to them, but she also hopes to learn the truth about the young boy's death.  Verl researches the information she has and finds a family that might hold the key to unlocking the past.  The story unfolds from her attempt to brush away the cobwebs that cover Willie's life, bringing about an amazing journey - for Verl and the people she encounters.<br />TATTERED PAGES is a touching tale of regret, guilt and the freedom of forgiveness.  It is based on a true event in the life of author Vickie Adkins.  Ms. Adkins has the ability to draw the reader into a story they won't soon forget.  This is definitely a special work by an author who will become a favorite of readers everywhere!	2002-04-02
US	51752004	RQ7C07Q0L0GSI	1890208825	831105970	Three for a Letter:  A John the Eunuch Mystery	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Great Series Continues!	A play presented to the Royal Court of the revered Emperor Justinian is nothing if not dramatic.  The mime, Barnabus, a dwarf, and a favorite of the Empress Theodora, plays the part of Jonah to the hilt.  The performance is highlighted by the presence of a huge, mechanical whale, designed to swallow the small man whole, thus portraying the story of the fall of Nineveh.  However, when the jaws of the large metal beast open, the mangled body of a young boy, Gadaric, one of a set of twins descended from the last Ostrogothic king, lies motionless in the leviathan's mouth.  And Barnabus has disappeared.<br />John, Lord Chamberlain to the Emperor, questions the maker of the mechanical whale, Hero.  The inventor assures him that the boy's death was not an accident.  John sets out to find out who wanted Gadaric dead - and why.<br />In this third book of the John the Eunuch series, the saga of the man whose life was changed forever when he was captured and disfigured by slave traders, continues within the richness of a time and place where most readers have never ventured.  It is 539 AD, and the story is set in Constantinople, a place full of magic, mysticism and mayhem.  John is a unique blend of loyalty, conscience, and depth.  Readers will find him to be someone they want to know more about.  He is an appealing character from the past, who transitions well into the present.<br />As always, Mary Reed and Eric Mayer have presented us with a wonderful gift in THREE FOR A LETTER.  Readers who love history will be enchanted, while readers who enjoy mystery will be enthralled.<br />I can't say enough about John the Eunuch, and about the authors who have given us this breathtaking series.<br />I highly recommend THREE FOR A LETTER, right along with its predecessors, ONE FOR SORROW, and TWO FOR JOY.	2002-02-24
US	51752004	RE5DI5ZKNE668	1588514587	76844176	For Friendship's Sake	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Highest Recommendation!	Marjorie Peyton is a beautiful, slightly spoiled, young woman living in the 1930's.  She is madly in love and engaged to be married.  Her world is shattered when she finds her fiancee, Nick Stouffer, in the arms of another woman.  Marjorie takes off on a cruise to New York, running away from the blow life has handed her.  On board the ship, she meets an old friend and agrees to stay at her home after they dock.  Caroline Christopher has everything Marjorie doesn't - a devoted husband, and most of all, the happiness that she can't seem to find.<br />In New York, Marjorie is introduced to Caroline's brother-in-law, Jakin Christopher.  Jake's deep hazel eyes and good looks draw her in, but she is still in love with Nick, and Jake, is nursing his own broken heart.  Eventually, the two develop a deep and abiding friendship.  When Nick comes back to claim Marjorie, Jake takes off, confused by his feelings.  Could he feel more for Marjorie than just friendship?  He ends up in Africa, where the woman he thinks he loves, tells him that she wants him back.  Now, Jake and Marjorie have everything they want - or do they?  As they look behind the masks of love, they find that what lies beneath can be something different than what they thought they saw in the light of day.  Sometimes, there can be something dark - and even sinister, lurking behind the disguises we wear.<br />FOR FRIENDSHIP'S SAKE is a book that looks into the heart - and holds truth, love, and faith up to the ultimate test.  Deon Lackey is an author of the highest caliber - one destined to write - as we are destined to read.  Her delivery is flawless and her talent incredible.  This twenty-one-year-old writer is on the brink of a career than should last her as long as she wants to share her talent with the rest of us.  <br />I give FOR FRIENDSHIP'S SAKE my very highest recommendation - as well as its talented author.	2002-02-15
US	51752004	RKIYX13DV6IBV	0595204856	706524691	Index of Suspicion	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Highest Recommendation!	Patrick Sawyer, former Governor of New Jersey, sneaks away from a five hundred dollar a plate fund-raising dinner, hoping to get a little time away from Secret Service agents and fawning admirers.  A suave and sophisticated politician, who commands respect from men and women alike, Sawyer appears to be a shoo-in for his party's presidential nomination.  As he sits alone in a rental car parked outside a country club in Houston, a crazed cat, which mysteriously found its way inside the locked vehicle, savagely attacks him.  Veterinarian Duncan MacDonell is nearby when a call goes out for help.  He is shocked to see the candidate's condition and certain that the cat is rabid.  MacDonell traps the animal and takes it back to the lab for testing.  He is surprised when the test comes back negative.  His gut instinct tells him that something is wrong.  His instinct proves correct.  Patrick Sawyer contracts rabies.  Now, the CDC is involved, and it looks like MacDonell's job is on the line unless he can explain why the original test failed to reveal information that might have saved the life of the next President of the United States.<br />The family of the man who may replace Sawyer as the party's next candidate contacts MacDonell, asking him for help to dispel any cloud of suspicion that might hang over a run for the White House.  A quest for the truth propels MacDonell into a world of lies, deceit, and murder.  Was there a conspiracy at work?  Who is involved?  Who knows the whole truth?<br />INDEX OF SUSPICION offers a complex and compelling story that grabs you and holds you until the very end.  Duncan MacDonell and his wife, Jeannie, are richly drawn and believable.  They are definitely characters you want to visit again.  This is a top-notch novel, full of intrigue, yet underscored with a human element that makes the overall presentation near perfection.<br />INDEX OF SUSPICION, the second book in the Duncan MacDonell series, rates the highest recommendation I can give.  Expect to hear more from its talented author, Robert Armstrong.	2002-01-23
US	51752004	R3DAP1692O3FDS	0966187970	103652421	Irregardless of Murder: A Miss Prentice Cozy Mystery	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Great New Mystery with an Utterly Engaging Character!	Miss Amelia Prentice is a high school English teacher with a passion for grammar.  One of her pet peeves is the use of the word \\"irregardless,\\" a misuse of the word \\"regardless.\\"  But if you think that this is her only passion, you would be mistaken.  Miss Prentice is also passionate about the children in her classroom, and perhaps, there is another fire burning somewhere inside her for a long-lost love.<br />When she stumbles over the body of one of her students, Miss Prentice is determined to find out what happened.  When her investigation points toward the possibility of drugs, she begins to look carefully at those around her.  Could there be something sinister brewing underneath the surface of the seemingly peaceful town?  To make things even a little more confusing, Gil Dickensen, a man that Amelia almost married when she was young, shows up unexpectedly.  As her search for the truth heats up, so also does her relationship with Gil.<br />IRREGARDLESS OF MURDER is filled with fun, fascinating characters, a persnickety old cat, and believe it or not, an illusive monster who makes an appearance from his home in Lake Champlain.<br />This is an absolutely delightful mystery.  It is captivating from front cover to last.  Ms. Kennedy will have to keep `em coming.  I'm absolutely stuck on Miss Amelia Prentice!<br />Highly Recommended	2001-12-08
US	51752004	R1MA40IAMMFB0	1588511596	31882832	The Unreal McCoy	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Great New Series!	Police Detective Albert McCoy isn't sure what it is about the beating of Michael O'Connor that bothers him the most.  Is it the fact that Michael reminds him of his late younger brother, or is it that something about the whole incident stinks to high heaven?  Whatever it is, McCoy, and his partner, Detective Sergeant Otis Springfield, find themselves knee deep in missing suspects and dead bodies.  As they investigate a possible insurance scam involving stolen jewelry, they come up with more questions than answers.  Exactly what has Michael gotten himself into?  Who is sending him black flowers with equally dark threats?  While Michael and the detectives try to sort out clues that lead in different and confusing directions, Michael's love interest, Marie Sielli, the daughter of his landlord, stays close by, determined to win the heart of the reluctant young man.<br />THE UNREAL McCOY is the first in a series that introduces readers to McCoy, a smart, street-wise detective, and Springfield, his unconventional partner.  The action is fast paced, and the characters are tightly drawn and inviting.  McCoy is hard-edged and quick-witted.  The dialogue is sharp and engaging. An intriguing ending brings about the possibility of  an interesting change in the direction that McCoy and Springfield may take in the next installment.<br />I enjoyed this novel very much, and I'll certainly be watching for the next offering in this super series!	2001-10-02
US	51752004	R659PKS1VNLX4	1585421278	837235348	The Spirit of Writing: Classic and Contemporary Essays Celebrating the Writing Life (New Consciousness Reader)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An Absolute Treasure!	\\"When I'm writing, I am trying to find out who I am, who we are, what we're capable of, how we feel, how we lose and stand up, and go on from darkness into darkness. Maya Angelou (From THE SPIRIT OF WRITING)<br />THE SPIRIT OF WRITING is an intriguing look into the souls of over sixty different writers. From Mark Twain to Stephen King, we are able to examine the spark that motivates the muse, and in return, perhaps more clearly see the face of the spirit that dwells, sometimes hidden and unnamed, inside any of us who have asked ourselves...what if? <br />The passions that inspire each writer, although varied and unique, weave themselves into a pattern that all writers can identify with. Author Bob Shacochis writes for revenge; \\"Revenge against apathy...against the bullets of assassins...against the Devil...against the silence into which we fall.\\" Sylvia Plath confronts the most well-known literary demon - insecurity. Mark Twain takes a hysterical and irreverent stab at those who call themselves writers in \\"Littery Men.\\" Author Jane Eaton Hamilton equates the production of a novel to the pain of childbirth, and Stephen King looks at the monetary side of writing in a funny piece called \\"It's Not the Money.\\"<br />In \\"Getting It,\\" written by MyShelf.com's own Susan McBride, we're given a personal glimpse into her struggle to silence the negative forces around her, until she could finally hear a voice from inside saying, \\"Don't quit. Your time will come.\\"<br />THE SPIRIT OF WRITING is a book that will stay close by the side of anyone who writes, who wants to write, or who knows a writer. And for those who are discouraged, this book is essential. It will stir the embers until the fire inside you is burning brightly again!	2001-09-23
US	51752004	R2497N63UIIF01	0966187962	462390443	A Clear North Light: Book One of the Lithuanian Trilogy	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Review from MyShelf.com	As the dark shadows of World War II march through Lithuania, Petras Simonaitas, a stained-glass artisan, watches in horror at the atrocities inflicted by the Nazis on his Jewish friends and neighbors.  Petras finds that there is no safe harbor against racism and hate as the cruel fingers of Hitler's nightmare reach into the lives of those he loves.<br />A Nazi sympathizer, Baron Pavel Gerulaitis, forces Petras' sister, Ona, a beautiful blonde, blue-eyed woman who fits the design of Hitler's so-called \\"master race,\\" to his castle.  When she dies, the Baron's lustful eye turns toward Rima, the girl that Petras loves.  After a brutal rape, Rima begins to fade away in front of Petras.  What can he do to protect her?  And how can he stand against the flood of hate that is threatening his beloved Lithuania?<br />The first in Schunk's Lithuanian trilogy, A CLEAR NORTH LIGHT is a compelling look into a time of human suffering.  The reader sees into the hearts of those who fought valiantly against a reign of violence and destruction.  Schunk masterfully takes us inside the lives of her characters and allows us to feel their pain and rejoice in their triumph of faith and spirit.  A CLEAR NORTH LIGHT will capture readers and hold them until the very end.	2001-08-18
US	51752004	R34RJ3DUU37N8	0966187938	861712233	Under the Wolf's Head: The First Callista Bagley Gardening Mystery	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What a Great Novel!	This was just wonderful!  Callista Bagley and her quirky sister were so  well drawn - imperfect but endearing.  Callista reminds me of the  &quot;favorite&quot; aunt found in almost everyone's family.  Interesting  and a little different!<br />I loved the gardening theme.  It helped to make  Callista a real person.<br />This was a charming and enjoyable novel from  first page to last - and the character of Sheriff Dan had me laughing out  loud.<br />More of Callista Bagley please!!!	2000-08-25
US	51752004	R2W8FBSZRLH7RM	0785280820	677022615	The Voice He Loved	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What a Great Novel!	This novel has it all - suspense, mystery and heart!<br />I was immediately drawn to the characters and could identify with them in so many ways!<br />I couldn't put it down.  This story is NOT just for Christians.  It is for  anyone who has battled adversity, looked for love, and who enjoys a good,  intensive thriller with a great ending!<br />Top-notch!  Ms. Schunk has  certainly made a fan!	2000-06-26
US	51752004	R1AWNT9CJT5F7N	0966187903	834315479	Black and Secret Midnight	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What a Wonderful Novel!	Not since TO A KILL A MOCKINGBIRD have I read a better novel that truly catches the flavor of the &quot;old&quot; South.<br />Schunk captures the stupidity and cruelty of racism through the eyes of a child.  Her writing  is excellent and the characters come alive on her pages.<br />I recommend this  book highly to anyone who is interested in reading a captivating and yet  horrifying mystery with a heart.<br />This one will stay with me a long time.	2000-06-19
US	51752004	RUNFSTVHBPKQH	0785268162	657306852	The Death of Innocence : The Untold Story of JonBenet's Murder and How Its Exploitation Compromised the Pursuit of Truth	Books	4	3	10	N	N	One Reviewer's Opinion	THE DEATH OF INNOCENCE is a hard book to read.  And an even harder book to review since it cannot be read without drawing out the reader's personal opinions.  And unfortunately, all it seems we have left to focus on now is  opinion and emotion - when in fact - attention should paid only to the fact  that a child has been brutally murdered.  And a killer is still at  large.<br />In a narrative that changes back and forth between John and Patsy,  the Ramseys tell the story of the death of JonBenet and the subsequent  events - from their side of the controversy - a side sadly ignored by most  of the press in this country.  From the tabloids to the mainstream media -  the Ramseys have been vilified and accused - with rage and virulence.  The  Ramseys try to answer the questions that the nation has asked for so long -  so that we can understand their view of the charges leveled against them in  the press.  For one thing, it appears that the accusations brought by the  Boulder police department as to the reluctance of the Ramseys to submit to  questioning are extremely suspect.  And the professionalism of the BPD is  not only suspect - it appears to be blatantly contaminated with mistakes  and ineptitude.  One of the most interesting observations in THE DEATH OF  INNOCENCE comes from Detective Lou Smit - a long time homicide detective  who worked on the Ramsey case.  His investigative technique centers around  the idea of first following the clues - and that they will eventually lead  to the murderer.  In the JonBenet Ramsey case - it appears that the Boulder  police first decided that one or both of the Ramseys killed their child -  and then they sought clues to prove their theory.  This flawed procedure  opens up the possibility of allowing important evidence to grow cold or  even worthless over time.  <br />Another comment that sticks out in my mind is  one from Detective Linda Arndt - called to the Ramsey's home after JonBenet  was reported missing.  In an interview for a prime time news program,  Detective Arndt explained that her conclusion that John Ramsey murdered his  daughter came through the fact that she \\"saw it in his eyes.\\"  The utter  lack of professionalism and procedural ethics in a statement like that  boggles the mind.  Unless Detective Arndt is a mind-reader, she has no idea  what is in anyone's eyes.<br />I responded with horror to the original report  of JonBenet's death in the news.  And I, like many others, began to go over  the clues in detail.  At first, the desire to get more information was  driven by an overwhelming wish to see the murderer caught.  However, as  time went on - it became a mystery - a game.  Why did Patsy put on the same  clothes the morning of the 26th that she'd worn the day before?  Why was it  reported that Burke's voice was on the 911 tape when the Ramseys claimed he  was in bed?  The questions grew and the speculation grew with them.<br />Many  of these questions are answered in THE DEATH OF INNOCENCE.  Some are not.   But the over-riding conclusion gleaned from this book is this: If the  Ramseys murdered JonBenet - they are the most hard-hearted killers to walk  this earth in a long time.  The brutal way JonBenet was killed is, to me,  an impossible thing for a parent to do.  And - if they did not kill  JonBenet, then rumor, gossip and innuendo through the citizenry and the  media has been nothing more than an insensitive and cruel attack on a  family grief-stricken by the loss of their beloved daughter.<br />Either way -  only the killer, JonBenet and God know the murderer of JonBenet Ramsey.   And no matter how long the murderer hides - the third witness will someday  bring about a judgment that there will be no escape from.	2000-05-28
