US	51756781	R2D62IXB9PA0MT	0060763957	967480762	Michael Moore Is a Big Fat Stupid White Man	Books	5	10	24	N	N	Liberalism is a fanatical religion	The authors together various points to produce this composite which thoroughly explains why America is the best country in the world, and my a deformed faggot like Michael Moore hates America.  Liberals are simply unable to answer the following questions that destroy their intellectually bankrupt arguments that buckle under the slightest scrutiny.<br />They explain why Liberals believe the following seven lies :<br />1) America is rich only because it has stolen money from other countries. Africa would be rich if America had not stolen from Africa. Even the wealth created in the last 10 years from software development was the result of exploiting the Amazon jungles and the Congo.<BR>2) Blacks in the US deserve reparations, even from people who's ancestors came to the US much later than the Civil War. Even Asian American taxpayers who arrived in the 1970s must pay reparations to Blacks who would otherwise be wealthy in Africa had they not been taken from there. Blacks are continually discriminated against by whites to this day at every possible opportunity. The fact that black immigrants from Dominica and Jamaica are doing much better than African Americans means that they are selectively not subjected to racism, even though their skin is even darker. <BR>3) The SAT is racially biased. The fact that Korean, Chinese, and Indian students do better than whites still means that it is biased against blacks. <BR>4) All rich people are rich because they had rich parents. If someone has poor parents, they have no chance. Communism, which fairly redistributes the fixed amount of dollars in the US, is the only fair solution. Even the immigrants who became rich after coming here (Andy Grove, George Soros, Vinod Khosla, Arnold Schwarznegger, etc.) have exploited others. <BR>5) Bush's tax cut only favors the rich. The person making $300,000 was paying $100,000 in taxes, and now will only pay $80,000, getting a refund of $20,000! The person making only $20,000 was paying $2000 intaxes, and now will still pay $1500, getting a refund of only $500. It is unfair that the rich person gets a refund that is 40 times larger than the poor person! They should get a refund of the same size! The fact that the rich person is STILL paying $80,000 while the poor person is only paying $1500, or less than 2% as much, is irrelevent. The rich are evil, and we have to take it away. <BR>6) We have NO right to attack the Taliban, even though they don't allow girls to go to school and force women to wear a burkha. Women in the US, however, are still held back by the glass ceiling.<BR>7) All the world's cultures are equal. The fact that immigrants from every part of the globe want to leave their countries and come to the US is not a valid point. I do not need to visit Africa, China, Brazil, or Iraq to know that their cultures are better than America. It is okay for China to massacre its own students at Tianamen, and conduct genocide against Tibetans and Uighurs, but it is wrong for the US to attack the Taliban while providing food for the Afghan people. <br />If you are a conservative who is angered by liberals who put forth these arguments, you will find indestructable firepower for your next argument in this book to demolish liberal shibboleths.  You will also know when you have WON when liberals say 'you are dumb' or 'you don't know' without putting forth an intelligent sentence. <br />If you are a liberal who thinks the above are true, read this book if you actually believe in free speech (liberals usually only believe in free speech when it consists of their own liberal intellectual incest.). Prove that you are not a hypocrite and read this book.<br />Note that the fools giving this book one star do not actually point out any flaws in reasoning, but just scream about things not relevant to this book. That is because THE AUTHORS HAVE ALREADY ANALYZED AND DEFEATED THEIR POINTS, and they have no choice but to cry in protest to their being outwitted and embarrassed. Read this book before your next debate against some liberal pseudo-intellectual. <br />Liberals are so dumb that their fanatical beliefs have actually become their religion. They are religious fanatics to just as great a degree as a Crackpot Christian. <br />Liberals are also incredibly racist - they hate minority conservatives only because they are dark-skinned people who do not subscribe to their fanatical religion of liberalism	2004-07-02
US	51756781	R392QGGPQIDSI1	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	5	8	24	N	N	Liberalism is a fanatical religion	This is easily Coulter's best book. She ties together various points to produce this composite which thoroughly explains why America is the best country in the world. Liberals are simply unable to answer the following questions that destroy their intellectually bankrupt arguments that buckle under the slightest scrutiny.<br />She explains why Liberals believe the following seven lies :<br />1) America is rich only because it has stolen money from other countries. Africa would be rich if America had not stolen from Africa. Even the wealth created in the last 10 years from software development was the result of exploiting the Amazon jungles and the Congo.<BR>2) Blacks in the US deserve reparations, even from people who's ancestors came to the US much later than the Civil War. Even Asian American taxpayers who arrived in the 1970s must pay reparations to Blacks who would otherwise be wealthy in Africa had they not been taken from there. Blacks are continually discriminated against by whites to this day at every possible opportunity. The fact that black immigrants from Dominica and Jamaica are doing much better than African Americans means that they are selectively not subjected to racism, even though their skin is even darker. <BR>3) The SAT is racially biased. The fact that Korean, Chinese, and Indian students do better than whites still means that it is biased against blacks. <BR>4) All rich people are rich because they had rich parents. If someone has poor parents, they have no chance. Communism, which fairly redistributes the fixed amount of dollars in the US, is the only fair solution. Even the immigrants who became rich after coming here (Andy Grove, George Soros, Vinod Khosla, Arnold Schwarznegger, etc.) have exploited others. <BR>5) Bush's tax cut only favors the rich. The person making $300,000 was paying $100,000 in taxes, and now will only pay $80,000, getting a refund of $20,000! The person making only $20,000 was paying $2000 in taxes, and now will still pay $1500, getting a refund of only $500. It is unfair that the rich person gets a refund that is 40 times larger than the poor person! They should get a refund of the same size! The fact that the rich person is STILL paying $80,000 while the poor person is only paying $1500, or less than 2% as much, is irrelevent. The rich are evil, and we have to take it away. <BR>6) We have NO right to attack the Taliban, even though they don't allow girls to go to school and force women to wear a burkha. Women in the US, however, are still held back by the glass ceiling.<BR>7) All the world's cultures are equal. The fact that immigrants from every part of the globe want to leave their countries and come to the US is not a valid point. I do not need to visit Africa, China, Brazil, or Iraq to know that their cultures are better than America. It is okay for China to massacre its own students at Tianamen, and conduct genocide against Tibetans and Uighurs, but it is wrong for the US to attack the Taliban while providing food for the Afghan people. <br />If you are a conservative who is angered by liberals who put forth these arguments, you will find indestructable firepower for your next argument in this book. No other book provides so comprehensive an arsenal to demolish the liberal shibboleths as this one. You will also know when you have WON when liberals say 'you are dumb' or 'you don't know' without putting forth an intelligent sentence. <br />If you are a liberal who thinks the above are true, read this book if you actually believe in free speech (liberals usually only believe in free speech when it consists of their own liberal intellectual incest.). Prove that you are not a hypocrite and read this book.<br />Note that the fools giving this book one star do not actually point out any flaws in Coulter's reasoning, but just scream about things not relevant to this book. That is because COULTER HAS ALREADY ANALYZED AND DEFEATED THEIR POINTS, and they have no choice but to cry in protest to their being outwitted and embarrassed. Read this book before your next debate against some liberal pseudo-intellectual. <br />Liberals are so dumb that their fanatical beliefs have actually become their religion. They are religious fanatics to just as great a degree as a Crackpot Christian. <br />Liberals are also incredibly racist - they hate minority conservatives only because they are dark-skinned people who do not subscribe to their fanatical religion of liberalism	2004-06-23
US	51756781	RCPZ3AZP2PQ1O	0785261028	620863197	The Enemy Within: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Schools, Faith, and Military	Books	5	24	40	N	N	Liberalism is a fanatical religion	This is easily Savage's best book. He ties together various points to produce this composite which thoroughly explains why America is the best country in the world. Liberals are simply unable to answer the following questions that destroy their intellectually bankrupt arguments that buckle under the slightest scrutiny.<br />He explains why Liberals believe the following seven lies :<br />1) America is rich only because it has stolen money from other countries. Africa would be rich if America had not stolen from Africa. Even the wealth created in the last 10 years from software development was the result of exploiting the Amazon jungles and the Congo.<BR>2) Blacks in the US deserve reparations, even from people who's ancestors came to the US much later than the Civil War. Even Asian American taxpayers who arrived in the 1970s must pay reparations to Blacks who would otherwise be wealthy in Africa had they not been taken from there. Blacks are continually discriminated against by whites to this day at every possible opportunity. The fact that black immigrants from Dominica and Jamaica are doing much better than African Americans means that they are selectively not subjected to racism, even though their skin is even darker. <BR>3) The SAT is racially biased. The fact that Korean, Chinese, and Indian students do better than whites still means that it is biased against blacks. <BR>4) All rich people are rich because they had rich parents. If someone has poor parents, they have no chance. Communism, which fairly redistributes the fixed amount of dollars in the US, is the only fair solution. Even the immigrants who became rich after coming here (Andy Grove, George Soros, Vinod Khosla, Arnold Schwarznegger, etc.) have exploited others. <BR>5) Bush's tax cut only favors the rich. The person making $300,000 was paying $100,000 in taxes, and now will only pay $80,000, getting a refund of $20,000! The person making only $20,000 was paying $2000 in taxes, and now will still pay$1500, getting a refund of only $500. It is unfair that the rich person gets a refund that is 40 times larger than the poor person! They should get a refund of the same size! The fact that the rich person is STILL paying $80,000 while the poor person is only paying $1500, or less than 2% as much, is irrelevent. The rich are evil, and we have to take it away. <BR>6) We have NO right to attack the Taliban, even though they don't allow girls to go to school and force women to wear a burkha. Women in the US, however, are still held back by the glass ceiling.<BR>7) All the world's cultures are equal. The fact that immigrants from every part of the globe want to leave their countries and come to the US is not a valid point. I do not need to visit Africa, China, Brazil, or Iraq to know that their cultures are better than America. It is okay for China to massacre its own students at Tianamen, and conduct genocide against Tibetans and Uighurs, but it is wrong for the US to attack the Taliban while providing food for the Afghan people. <br />If you are a conservative who is angered by liberals who put forth these arguments, you will find indestructable firepower for your next argument in this book. No other book provides so comprehensive an arsenal to demolish the liberal shibboleths as this one. You will also know when you have WON when liberals say 'you are dumb' or 'you don't know' without putting forth an intelligent sentence. <br />If you are a liberal who thinks the above are true, read this book if you actually believe in free speech (liberals usually only believe in free speech when it consists of their own liberal intellectual incest.). Prove that you are not a hypocrite and read this book.<br />Note that the fools giving this book one star do not actually point out any flaws in Savage's reasoning, but just scream about things not relevant to this book. That is because SAVAGE HAS ALREADY ANALYZED AND DEFEATED THEIR POINTS, and they have no choice but to cry in protest to their being outwitted and embarrassed. Read this book before your next debate against some liberal pseudo-intellectual. <br />Liberals are so dumb that their fanatical beliefs have actually become their religion. They are religious fanatics to just as great a degree as a Crackpot Christian. <br />Liberals are also incredibly racist - they hate minority conservatives only because they are dark-skinned people who do not subscribe to their fanatical religion of liberalism	2004-06-18
US	51756781	R25FN2UZ79G9GG	0142003018	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A comprehensive book about America	This book is basically about the history of America, how that shaped the country to become what it is today, and how America is viewed by different parts of the world.<br />While D'Souza is a conservative, this book does NOT have a lot of angry right-wing attacks on liberals like an Ann Coulter book.  In fact, D'Souza hardly criticizes liberals much.<br />In short, those who like America or are neutral will like this book.<br />Those who hate America will REALLY HATE this book.<br />Plain and simple.	2004-06-18
US	51756781	R1BVGCZY182KSL	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	1	18	66	N	N	Liberalism is a fanatical religion	Franken is catering to a demographic that is dumb enough to buy into these lies. America is the best country in the world because the people with the lowest intelligence and ability (liberals) are not rewarded for the work of others.  Liberals are simply unable to answer the following questions that destroy their intellectually bankrupt arguments that buckle under the slightest scrutiny.<br />He exemplifies why Liberals believe the following seven lies :<br />1) America is rich only because it has stolen money from other countries. Africa would be rich if America had not stolen from Africa. Even the wealth created in the last 10 years from software development was the result of exploiting the Amazon jungles and the Congo.<BR>2) Blacks in the US deserve reparations, even from people who's ancestors came to the US much later than the Civil War. Even Asian American taxpayers who arrived in the 1970s must pay reparations to Blacks who would otherwise be wealthy in Africa had they not been taken from there. Blacks are continually discriminated against by whites to this day at every possible opportunity. The fact that black immigrants from Dominica and Jamaica are doing much better than African Americans means that they are selectively not subjected to racism, even though their skin is even darker. <BR>3) The SAT is racially biased. The fact that Korean, Chinese, and Indian students do better than whites still means that it is biased against blacks. <BR>4) All rich people are rich because they had rich parents. If someone has poor parents, they have no chance. Communism, which fairly redistributes the fixed amount of dollars in the US, is the only fair solution. Even the immigrants who became rich after coming here (Andy Grove, George Soros, Vinod Khosla, Arnold Schwarznegger, etc.) have exploited others. <BR>5) Bush's tax cut only favors the rich. The person making $300,000 was paying $100,000 in taxes, and now will only pay $80,000, getting a refund of $20,000! The person making only $20,000 was paying $2000 in taxes, and now will still pay $1500, getting a refund of only $500. It is unfair that the rich person gets a refund that is 40 times larger than the poor person! They should get a refund of the same size! The fact that the rich person is STILL paying $80,000 while the poor person is only paying $1500, or less than 2% as much, is irrelevent. The rich are evil, and we have to take it away. <BR>6) We have NO right to attack the Taliban, even though they don't allow girls to go to school and force women to wear a burkha. Women in the US, however, are still held back by the glass ceiling.<BR>7) All the world's cultures are equal. The fact that immigrants from every part of the globe want to leave their countries and come to the US is not a valid point. I do not need to visit Africa, China, Brazil, or Iraq to know that their cultures are better than America. It is okay for China to massacre its own students at Tianamen, and conduct genocide against Tibetans and Uighurs, but it is wrong for the US to attack the Taliban while providing food for the Afghan people. <br />If you are a conservative who is angered by liberals who put forth these arguments, you will the vacuum of liberal thought in this book. You will also know when you have WON when liberals say 'you are dumb' or 'you don't know' without putting forth an intelligent sentence. <br />If you are a liberal who thinks this book is true, get out into the real world and gain some common sense for a change (liberals usually only believe in free speech when it consists of their own liberal intellectual incest.). <br />Note that the fools giving this book five stars do not actually point out any flaws in conservative reasoning, but just scream about things not relevant to common sense. That is because CONSERVATIVES HAVE ALREADY ANALYZED AND DEFEATED THEIR POINTS, and they have no choice but to cry in protest to their being outwitted and embarrassed. It is easy to win a debate against some liberal pseudo-intellectual. <br />Liberals are so dumb that their fanatical beliefs have actually become their religion. They are religious fanatics to just as great a degree as a Crackpot Christian. <br />Liberals are also incredibly racist - they hate educated minorities only because they are dark-skinned people who do not subscribe to their fanatical religion of liberalism	2004-06-04
US	51756781	RCK02PMR5CB7C	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	1	15	66	N	N	Liberalism is a fanatical religion	Moore is catering to a demographic that is dumb enough to buy into these lies.  America is the best country in the world simple because liberals are not in charge. Liberals are simply unable to answer the following questions that destroy their intellectually bankrupt arguments that buckle under the slightest scrutiny.<br />He exemplifies why Liberals believe the following seven lies :<br />1) America is rich only because it has stolen money from other countries. Africa would be rich if America had not stolen from Africa. Even the wealth created in the last 10 years from software development was the result of exploiting the Amazon jungles and the Congo.<BR>2) Blacks in the US deserve reparations, even from people who's ancestors came to the US much later than the Civil War. Even Asian American taxpayers who arrived in the 1970s must pay reparations to Blacks who would otherwise be wealthy in Africa had they not been taken from there. Blacks are continually discriminated against by whites to this day at every possible opportunity. The fact that black immigrants from Dominica and Jamaica are doing much better than African Americans means that they are selectively not subjected to racism, even though their skin is even darker. <BR>3) The SAT is racially biased. The fact that Korean, Chinese, and Indian students do better than whites still means that it is biased against blacks. <BR>4) All rich people are rich because they had rich parents. If someone has poor parents, they have no chance. Communism, which fairly redistributes the fixed amount of dollars in the US, is the only fair solution. Even the immigrants who became rich after coming here (Andy Grove, George Soros, Vinod Khosla, Arnold Schwarznegger, etc.) have exploited others. <BR>5) Bush's tax cut only favors the rich. The person making $300,000 was paying $100,000 in taxes, and now will only pay $80,000, getting a refund of $20,000! The person making only $20,000 was paying $2000 in taxes, and now will still pay $1500, getting a refund of only $500. It is unfair that the rich person gets a refund that is 40 times larger than the poor person! They should get a refund of the same size! The fact that the rich person is STILL paying $80,000 while the poor person is only paying $1500, or less than 2% as much, is irrelevent. The rich are evil, and we have to take it away. <BR>6) We have NO right to attack the Taliban, even though they don't allow girls to go to school and force women to wear a burkha. Women in the US, however, are still held back by the glass ceiling.<BR>7) All the world's cultures are equal. The fact that immigrants from every part of the globe want to leave their countries and come to the US is not a valid point. I do not need to visit Africa, China, Brazil, or Iraq to know that their cultures are better than America. It is okay for China to massacre its own students at Tianamen, and conduct genocide against Tibetans and Uighurs, but it is wrong for the US to attack the Taliban while providing food for the Afghan people. <br />If you are a conservative who is angered by liberals who put forth these arguments, you will the vacuum of liberal thought in this book.  You will also know when you have WON when liberals say 'you are dumb' or 'you don't know' without putting forth an intelligent sentence. <br />If you are a liberal who thinks this book is true, get out into the real world and gain some common sense for a change (liberals usually only believe in free speech when it consists of their own liberal intellectual incest.). <br />Note that the fools giving this book five stars do not actually point out any flaws in conservative reasoning, but just scream about things not relevant to common sense. That is because CONSERVATIVES HAVE ALREADY ANALYZED AND DEFEATED THEIR POINTS, and they have no choice but to cry in protest to their being outwitted and embarrassed.  It is easy to win a debate against some liberal pseudo-intellectual. <br />Liberals are so dumb that their fanatical beliefs have actually become their religion. They are religious fanatics to just as great a degree as a Crackpot Christian. <br />Liberals are also incredibly racist - they hate educated minorities only because they are dark-skinned people who do not subscribe to their fanatical religion of liberalism	2004-05-20
US	51756781	RZ6FBMDG572IZ	0060582510	541105320	Deliver Us from Evil: Defeating Terrorism, Despotism, and Liberalism	Books	5	20	48	N	N	Liberalism is a fanatical religion	This is easily Hannity's best book. He ties together various points to produce this composite which thoroughly explains why America is the best country in the world. Liberals are simply unable to answer the following questions that destroy their intellectually bankrupt arguments that buckle under the slightest scrutiny.<br />He explains why Liberals believe the following seven lies :<br />1) America is rich only because it has stolen money from other countries. Africa would be rich if America had not stolen from Africa. Even the wealth created in the last 10 years from software development was the result of exploiting the Amazon jungles and the Congo.<BR>2) Blacks in the US deserve reparations, even from people who's ancestors came to the US much later than the Civil War. Even Asian American taxpayers who arrived in the 1970s must pay reparations to Blacks who would otherwise be wealthy in Africa had they not been taken from there. Blacks are continually discriminated against by whites to this day at every possible opportunity. The fact that black immigrants from Dominica and Jamaica are doing much better than African Americans means that they are selectively not subjected to racism, even though their skin is even darker. <BR>3) The SAT is racially biased. The fact that Korean, Chinese, and Indian students do better than whites still means that it is biased against blacks. <BR>4) All rich people are rich because they had rich parents. If someone has poor parents, they have no chance. Communism, which fairly redistributes the fixed amount of dollars in the US, is the only fair solution. Even the immigrants who became rich after coming here (Andy Grove, George Soros, Vinod Khosla, Arnold Schwarznegger, etc.) have exploited others. <BR>5) Bush's tax cut only favors the rich. The person making $300,000 was paying $100,000 in taxes, and now will only pay $80,000, getting a refund of $20,000! The person making only $20,000 was paying $2000 in taxes, and now will still pay$1500, getting a refund of only $500. It is unfair that the rich person gets a refund that is 40 times larger than the poor person! They should get a refund of the same size! The fact that the rich person is STILL paying $80,000 while the poor person is only paying $1500, or less than 2% as much, is irrelevent. The rich are evil, and we have to take it away. <BR>6) We have NO right to attack the Taliban, even though they don't allow girls to go to school and force women to wear a burkha. Women in the US, however, are still held back by the glass ceiling.<BR>7) All the world's cultures are equal. The fact that immigrants from every part of the globe want to leave their countries and come to the US is not a valid point. I do not need to visit Africa, China, Brazil, or Iraq to know that their cultures are better than America. It is okay for China to massacre its own students at Tianamen, and conduct genocide against Tibetans and Uighurs, but it is wrong for the US to attack the Taliban while providing food for the Afghan people. <br />If you are a conservative who is angered by liberals who put forth these arguments, you will find indestructable firepower for your next argument in this book. No other book provides so comprehensive an arsenal to demolish the liberal shibboleths as this one. You will also know when you have WON when liberals say 'you are dumb' or 'you don't know' without putting forth an intelligent sentence. <br />If you are a liberal who thinks the above are true, read this book if you actually believe in free speech (liberals usually only believe in free speech when it consists of their own liberal intellectual incest.). Prove that you are not a hypocrite and read this book.<br />Note that the fools giving this book one star do not actually point out any flaws in Hannity's reasoning, but just scream about things not relevant to this book. That is because HANNITY HAS ALREADY ANALYZED AND DEFEATED THEIR POINTS, and they have no choice but to cry in protest to their being outwitted and embarrassed. Read this book before your next debate against some liberal pseudo-intellectual. <br />Liberals are so dumb that their fanatical beliefs have actually become their religion. They are religious fanatics to just as great a degree as a Crackpot Christian. <br />Liberals are also incredibly racist - they hate minority conservatives only because they are dark-skinned people who do not subscribe to their fanatical religion of liberalism	2004-05-20
US	51756781	R2BTIII848FZ1M	0785261028	620863197	The Enemy Within: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Schools, Faith, and Military	Books	5	29	42	N	N	Puts Liberals in their place - Go Gettem' Savage!!!!	Savage exposes liberals. He ties together various points to produce this composite which thoroughly explains why America is the best country in the world. Liberals are simply unable to answer the following questions that destroy their intellectually bankrupt arguments that buckle under the slightest scrutiny.<br />He explains why Liberals believe the following seven lies :<br />1) America is rich only because it has stolen money from other countries. Africa would be rich if America had not stolen from Africa. Even the wealth created in the last 10 years from software development was the result of exploiting the Amazon jungles and the Congo.<BR>2) Blacks in the US deserve reparations, even from people who's ancestors came to the US much later than the Civil War. Even Asian American taxpayers who arrived in the 1970s must pay reparations to Blacks who would otherwise be wealthy in Africa had they not been taken from there. Blacks are continually discriminated against by whites to this day at every possible opportunity. The fact that black immigrants from Dominica and Jamaica are doing much better than African Americans means that they are selectively not subjected to racism, even though their skin is even darker. <BR>3) The SAT is racially biased. The fact that Korean, Chinese, and Indian students do better than whites still means that it is biased against blacks. <BR>4) All rich people are rich because they had rich parents. If someone has poor parents, they have no chance. Communism, which fairly redistributes the fixed amount of dollars in the US, is the only fair solution. Even the immigrants who became rich after coming here (Andy Grove, George Soros, Vinod Khosla, Arnold Schwarznegger, etc.) have exploited others. <BR>5) Bush's tax cut only favors the rich. The person making $300,000 was paying $100,000 in taxes, and now will only pay $80,000, getting a refund of $20,000! The person making only $20,000 was paying $2000 in taxes, and now will still pay $1500, getting a refund of only $500. It is unfair that the rich person gets a refund that is 40 times larger than the poor person! They should get a refund of the same size! The fact that the rich person is STILL paying $80,000 while the poor person is only paying $1500, or less than 2% as much, is irrelevent. The rich are evil, and we have to take it away. <BR>6) We have NO right to attack the Taliban, even though they don't allow girls to go to school and force women to wear a burkha. Women in the US, however, are still held back by the glass ceiling.<BR>7) All the world's cultures are equal. The fact that immigrants from every part of the globe want to leave their countries and come to the US is not a valid point. I do not need to visit Africa, China, Brazil, or Iraq to know that their cultures are better than America. It is okay for China to massacre its own students at Tianamen, and conduct genocide against Tibetans and Uighurs, but it is wrong for the US to attack the Taliban while providing food for the Afghan people. <br />If you are a conservative who is angered by liberals who put forth these arguments, you will find indestructable firepower for your next argument in this book. No other book provides so comprehensive an arsenal to demolish the liberal shibboleths as this one. You will also know when you have WON when liberals say 'you are dumb' or 'you don't know' without putting forth an intelligent sentence. <br />If you are a liberal who thinks the above are true, read this book if you actually believe in free speech (liberals usually only believe in free speech when it consists of their own liberal intellectual incest.). Prove that you are not a hypocrite and read this book.<br />Note that the fools giving this book one star do not actually point out any flaws in Savage's reasoning, but just scream about things not relevant to this book. That is because SAVAGE HAS ALREADY ANALYZED AND DEFEATED THEIR POINTS, and they have no choice but to cry in protest to theirbeing outwitted and embarrassed. Read this book before your next debate against some liberal pseudo-intellectual. <br />Liberals are so dumb that their fanatical beliefs have actually become their religion. They are religious fanatics to just as great a degree as a Crackpot Christian. <br />Liberals are also incredibly racist - they hate non-white conservatives only because they are dark-skinned people who do not subscribe to their fanatical religion of liberalism.	2004-01-19
US	51756781	R3CBB9FXL0OZ3J	0895261537	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	5	23	37	N	N	Superb, Articulate, Accurate, Truthful!!!	This is easily D'Souza's best book. He ties together various points to produce this composite which thoroughly explains why America is the best country in the world. Liberals are simply unable to answer the following questions that destroy their intellectually bankrupt arguments that buckle under the slightest scrutiny.<br />He explains why Liberals believe the following seven lies :<br />1) America is rich only because it has stolen money from other countries. Africa would be rich if America had not stolen from Africa. Even the wealth created in the last 10 years from software development was the result of exploiting the Amazon jungles and the Congo.<BR>2) Blacks in the US deserve reparations, even from people who's ancestors came to the US much later than the Civil War. Even Asian American taxpayers who arrived in the 1970s must pay reparations to Blacks who would otherwise be wealthy in Africa had they not been taken from there. Blacks are continually discriminated against by whites to this day at every possible opportunity. The fact that black immigrants from Dominica and Jamaica are doing much better than African Americans means that they are selectively not subjected to racism, even though their skin is even darker. <BR>3) The SAT is racially biased. The fact that Korean, Chinese, and Indian students do better than whites still means that it is biased against blacks. <BR>4) All rich people are rich because they had rich parents. If someone has poor parents, they have no chance. Communism, which fairly redistributes the fixed amount of dollars in the US, is the only fair solution. Even the immigrants who became rich after coming here (Andy Grove, George Soros, Vinod Khosla, Arnold Schwarznegger, etc.) have exploited others. <BR>5) Bush's tax cut only favors the rich. The person making $300,000 was paying $100,000 in taxes, and now will only pay $80,000, getting a refund of $20,000! The person making only $20,000 was paying $2000 in taxes, and now will still pay$1500, getting a refund of only $500. It is unfair that the rich person gets a refund that is 40 times larger than the poor person! They should get a refund of the same size! The fact that the rich person is STILL paying $80,000 while the poor person is only paying $1500, or less than 2% as much, is irrelevent. The rich are evil, and we have to take it away. <BR>6) We have NO right to attack the Taliban, even though they don't allow girls to go to school and force women to wear a burkha. Women in the US, however, are still held back by the glass ceiling.<BR>7) All the world's cultures are equal. The fact that immigrants from every part of the globe want to leave their countries and come to the US is not a valid point. I do not need to visit Africa, China, Brazil, or Iraq to know that their cultures are better than America. It is okay for China to massacre its own students at Tianamen, and conduct genocide against Tibetans and Uighurs, but it is wrong for the US to attack the Taliban while providing food for the Afghan people. <br />If you are a conservative who is angered by liberals who put forth these arguments, you will find indestructable firepower for your next argument in this book. No other book provides so comprehensive an arsenal to demolish the liberal shibboleths as this one. You will also know when you have WON when liberals say 'you are dumb' or 'you don't know' without putting forth an intelligent sentence. <br />If you are a liberal who thinks the above are true, read this book if you actually believe in free speech (liberals usually only believe in free speech when it consists of their own liberal intellectual incest.). Prove that you are not a hypocrite and read this book.<br />Note that the fools giving this book one star do not actually point out any flaws in D'Souza's reasoning, but just scream about things not relevant to this book. That is because D'SOUZA HAS ALREADY ANALYZED AND DEFEATED THEIR POINTS, and they have no choice but to cry in protest to their being outwitted and embarrassed. Read this book before your next debate against some liberal pseudo-intellectual. <br />Liberals are so dumb that their fanatical beliefs have actually become their religion.  They are religious fanatics to just as great a degree as a Crackpot Christian.  <br />Liberals are also incredibly racist - they hate D'Souza only because he is a dark-skinned person who does not subscribe to their fanatical religion of liberalism.	2003-10-23
US	51756781	R1V9FZAJT9AXAC	0785263535	779051969	The Savage Nation: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Borders, Language and Culture	Books	5	6	12	N	N	Puts Liberals in their place - Go Gettem' Savage!!!!	Savage ties together various points to produce this composite which thoroughly explains why America is the best country in the world. Liberals are simply unable to answer questions that destroy their intellectually bankrupt arguments that buckle under the slightest scrutiny.<br />He explains why Liberals believe the following seven lies :<br />1) America is rich only because it has stolen money from other countries. Africa would be rich if America had not stolen from Africa. Even the wealth created in the last 10 years from software development was the result of exploiting the Amazon jungles and the Congo. <BR>2) Blacks in the US deserve reparations, even from people who's ancestors came to the US much later than the Civil War. Even Asian American taxpayers who arrived in the 1970s must pay reparations to Blacks who would otherwise be wealthy in Africa had they not been taken from there. Blacks are continually discriminated against by whites to this day at every possible opportunity. The fact that black immigrants from Dominica and Jamaica are doing much better than African Americans means that they are selectively not subjected to racism, even though their skin is even darker. They should pay reparations too. <BR>3) The SAT is racially biased. The fact that Korean, Chinese, and Indian students do better than whites still means that it is biased against blacks and no one else. The Math section is particularly rigged against blacks. <BR>4) All rich people are rich because they had rich parents. If someone has poor parents, they have no chance. Communism, which fairly redistributes the fixed amount of dollars in the US, is the only fair solution. Even the immigrants who became rich after coming here have exploited others. <BR>5) Bush's tax cut only favors the rich. The person making $300,000 was paying $100,000 in taxes, and now will only pay $80,000, getting a refund of $20,000! The person making only $20,000 was paying $2000 in taxes, and now will still pay $1500, getting a refund of only $500. It is unfair that the rich person gets a refund that is 40 times larger than the poor person! They should get a refund of the same size! The fact that the rich person is STILL paying $80,000 while the poor person is<BR>only paying $1500, or less than 2% as much, is irrelevent. The rich are evil, and we have to take it away. Hard work never gets anyone anywhere in America, but smoking pot and having body piercings and tatoos do. <BR>6) We have NO right to attack the Taliban, even though they don't allow girls to go to school and force women to wear a burkha. Women in the US, however, are still held back by the glass ceiling.<BR>7) All the world's cultures are equal. The fact that immigrants from every part of the globe want to leave their countries and come to the US is not a valid point. I do not need to visit Africa, China, Brazil, or Iraq to know that their cultures are better than America. It is okay for China to massacre its own students at Tianamen, and conduct genocide against Tibetans and Uighurs, but it is wrong for the US to attack the Taliban while providing food for the Afghan people. America was also wrong to attack Germany in WWII to save the Jews. Whenever America has a war, it is wrong. <br />If you are a conservative who is angered by liberals who put forth these arguments, you will find indestructable firepower for your next argument in this book. Few books provide so comprehensive an arsenal to demolish the liberal shibboleths as this one. You will also know when you have WON when liberals say 'you are dumb' or 'you don't know' without putting forth an<BR>intelligent sentence. <br />If you are a liberal who thinks the above are true, read this book if you actually believe in free speech (liberals usually believe in free speech when it consists of their own liberal intellectual incest.). Prove that you are not a hypocrite and read this book. Read this book before your next debate against some liberal pseudo-intellectual.	2003-03-08
US	51756781	R1445VLK13J1K4	0060514558	921401083	Let Freedom Ring: Winning the War of Liberty over Liberalism	Books	5	18	33	N	N	Puts Liberals in their place - Go Gettem' Sean!!	Hannity ties together various points to produce this composite which thoroughly explains why America is the best country in the world.  Liberals are simply unable to answer questions that destroy their intellectually bankrupt arguments that buckle under the slightest scrutiny.<br />He explains why Liberals believe the following seven lies :<br />1) America is rich only because it has stolen money from other countries. Africa would be rich if America had not stolen from Africa. Even the wealth created in the last 10 years from software development was the result of exploiting the Amazon jungles and the Congo.  <BR>2) Blacks in the US deserve reparations, even from people who's ancestors came to the US much later than the Civil War. Even Asian American taxpayers who arrived in the 1970s must pay reparations to Blacks who would otherwise be wealthy in Africa had they not been taken from there. Blacks are continually discriminated against by whites to this day at every possible opportunity. The fact that black immigrants from Dominica and Jamaica are doing much better than African Americans means that they are selectively not subjected to racism, even though their skin is even darker.  They should pay reparations too.  <BR>3) The SAT is racially biased. The fact that Korean, Chinese, and Indian students do better than whites still means that it is biased against blacks and no one else.  The Math section is particularly rigged against blacks.  <BR>4) All rich people are rich because they had rich parents. If someone has poor parents, they have no chance. Communism, which fairly redistributes the fixed amount of dollars in the US, is the only fair solution. Even the immigrants who became rich after coming here have exploited others. <BR>5) Bush's tax cut only favors the rich. The person making $300,000 was paying $100,000 in taxes, and now will only pay $80,000, getting a refund of $20,000! The person making only $20,000 was paying $2000 in taxes, and now will still pay $1500, getting a refund of only $500. It is unfair that the rich person gets a refund that is 40 times larger than the poor person! They should get a refund of the same size! The fact that the rich person is STILL paying $80,000 while the poor person is<BR>only paying $1500, or less than 2% as much, is irrelevent. The rich are evil, and we have to take it away.  Hard work never gets anyone anywhere in America, but smoking pot and having body piercings and tatoos do.  <BR>6) We have NO right to attack the Taliban, even though they don't allow girls to go to school and force women to wear a burkha. Women in the US, however, are still held back by the glass ceiling.<BR>7) All the world's cultures are equal. The fact that immigrants from every part of the globe want to leave their countries and come to the US is not a valid point. I do not need to visit Africa, China, Brazil, or Iraq to know that their cultures are better than America. It is okay for China to massacre its own students at Tianamen, and conduct genocide against Tibetans and Uighurs, but it is wrong for the US to attack the Taliban while providing food for the Afghan people.  America was also wrong to attack Germany in WWII to save the Jews.  Whenever America has a war, it is wrong.  <br />If you are a conservative who is angered by liberals who put forth these arguments, you will find indestructable firepower for your next argument in this book.  Few books provide so comprehensive an arsenal to demolish the liberal shibboleths as this one. You will also know when you have WON when liberals say 'you are dumb' or 'you don't know' without putting forth an<BR>intelligent sentence. <br />If you are a liberal who thinks the above are true, read this book if you actually believe in free speech (liberals usually  believe in free speech when it consists of their own liberal intellectual incest.). Prove that you are not a hypocrite and read this book.<br />Note that the fools giving this book one star do not actually point out any flaws in Hannity's reasoning, but just scream about things not relevant to this book. That is because HANNITY HAS ALREADY ANALYZED AND DEFEATED THEIR POINTS, and they have no choice but to cry in protest to their being outwitted and embarrassed.  Their self-loathing ways have been revealed.  Read this book before your next debate against some liberal pseudo-intellectual.	2003-01-26
US	51756781	R1UKK1EYKWZOZ3	0895261537	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Superb, articulate, TRUTHFUL - Go Gettem' Dinesh!!	This is easily D'Souza's best book. He ties together various points to produce this composite which thoroughly explains why America is the best country in the world. Liberals are simply unable to answer the following questions that destroy their intellectually bankrupt arguments that buckle under the slightest scrutiny.<br />He explains why Liberals believe the following seven lies :<br />1) America is rich only because it has stolen money from other countries. Africa would be rich if America had not stolen from Africa. Even the wealth created in the last 10 years from software development was the result of exploiting the Amazon jungles and the Congo.<BR>2) Blacks in the US deserve reparations, even from people who's ancestors came to the US much later than the Civil War. Even Asian American taxpayers who arrived in the 1970s must pay reparations to Blacks who would otherwise be wealthy in Africa had they not been taken from there. Blacks are continually discriminated against by whites to this day at every possible opportunity. The fact that black immigrants from Dominica and Jamaica are doing much better than African Americans means that they are selectively not subjected to racism, even though their skin is even darker. <BR>3) The SAT is racially biased. The fact that Korean, Chinese, and Indian students do better than whites still means that it is biased against blacks. <BR>4) All rich people are rich because they had rich parents. If someone has poor parents, they have no chance. Communism, which fairly redistributes the fixed amount of dollars in the US, is the only fair solution. Even the immigrants who became rich after coming here (Andy Grove, George Soros, Vinod Khosla, Arnold Schwarznegger, etc.) have exploited others. <BR>5) Bush's tax cut only favors the rich. The person making $300,000 was paying $100,000 in taxes, and now will only pay $80,000, getting a refund of $20,000! The person making only $20,000 was paying $2000 in taxes, and now will still pay$1500, getting a refund of only $500. It is unfair that the rich person gets a refund that is 40 times larger than the poor person! They should get a refund of the same size! The fact that the rich person is STILL paying $80,000 while the poor person is only paying $1500, or less than 2% as much, is irrelevent. The rich are evil, and we have to take it away. <BR>6) We have NO right to attack the Taliban, even though they don't allow girls to go to school and force women to wear a burkha. Women in the US, however, are still held back by the glass ceiling.<BR>7) All the world's cultures are equal. The fact that immigrants from every part of the globe want to leave their countries and come to the US is not a valid point. I do not need to visit Africa, China, Brazil, or Iraq to know that their cultures are better than America. It is okay for China to massacre its own students at Tianamen, and conduct genocide against Tibetans and Uighurs, but it is wrong for the US to attack the Taliban while providing food for the Afghan people. <br />If you are a conservative who is angered by liberals who put forth these arguments, you will find indestructable firepower for your next argument in this book. No other book provides so comprehensive an arsenal to demolish the liberal shibboleths as this one. You will also know when you have WON when liberals say 'you are dumb' or 'you don't know' without putting forth an intelligent sentence. <br />If you are a liberal who thinks the above are true, read this book if you actually believe in free speech (liberals usually only believe in free speech when it consists of their own liberal intellectual incest.). Prove that you are not a hypocrite and read this book.<br />Note that the fools giving this book one star do not actually point out any flaws in D'Souza's reasoning, but just scream about things not relevant to this book. That is because D'SOUZA HAS ALREADY ANALYZED AND DEFEATED THEIR POINTS, and they have no choice but to cry in protest to their being outwitted and embarrassed. Read this book before your next debate against some liberal pseudo-intellectual.	2002-12-15
US	51756781	RN1VJMYQATHIM	0071387846	176241992	Wireless LANs Demystified (Demystified)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great book on a crucial technology	This is a very good textbook for anyone who is interested in WLAN technologies, particularly those who are seeking to work in this field.  <br />There are currently 1200 Wi-fi hot spots in the US, and that number is expected to rise to 10,000 by the middle of 2003.  A lot of people who were laid off in telecom will find employment in this new industry, and a book like this can help them converse intelligently on the subject of 802.11, Bluetooth, etc.	2002-07-23
US	51756781	RGMQS0ULSGZ0N	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	1	19	53	N	N	Terrible, ignorant, and factually incorrect.	I am not a liberal.  I gave 5-stars to Dinesh D'Souza's 'What's so great about America', which is a far more intelligently written book.<br />The problem is, this book caters to white racists who believe that unless something is white and Christian, it is not civilized.  <br />I bet Pat Buchanan thinks Dinesh D'Souza is beneath him, simply because he is not white.  Buchanan is also incorrect that California will become a third-world country because of the inflow of Mexicans AND ASIANS.  He overlooks the fact that Asians have a higher education level and per capita income than Whites.	2002-07-13
US	51756781	R1M337AH8DKXVW	0895261537	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	5	4	10	N	N	Questions for one-star pseudo-intellectuals	For anyone rating this book one-star, please answer the following:<br />1)  If America is such a terrible place and you are ashamed to be an American, which country would you rather be in?  <br />2)  Which country, other than America, can someone who starts poor become rich?  Why are most of the richest Americans self-made (many are immigrants, even).  <br />3)  Why do immigrants from all over the world want to come here of their own free will?  Why has an immigrant written this book on behalf of a nation he was not in until age 20?<br />4)  Do you enjoy using things invented in America, such as TVs, cars, computers, email, soft drinks, telephones, etc?  <br />Any one-star reviewer who henceforth posts without answering these questions is pretty much revealing that they are not interested in right or wrong, just their own hate-mongering, and their reviews will carry no value.  Only cowards hide from the truth.  <br />D'Souza never says America is perfect, he points out all the flaws.  He just says that America has fewer flaws and is more benevolent a society than any other.  I don't see how any sane person can dispute his logic.  It seems that liberals are judging America by a utopian standard, rather than judging America against the rest of the world.  That, of course, is irrational.  <br />Even the most liberal senators, like Hillary Clinton and Ted Kennedy, are still, after all, patriots.  I think even they would be shocked by the ignorant hate-mongering exhibited here by uneducated liberals.	2002-07-07
US	51756781	R126DDUSU0MHHH	0895261537	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	5	5	16	N	N	What's so RIGHT about America!!	(A previous) review pretty much sums up the ignorance of all the one-star reviews, as follows :<br />Every single silly argument made in that long screed HAS ALEADY BEEN DEBATED AND DEFEATED by D'Souza!!!  Everything from why we had no choice but to support dictators in Nicaragua, Iraq, etc. has already been explained.  Everything about our supposed 'human rights abuses' like slavery, etc. has already been explained.  D'Souza does not say these things are excusable, merely points out that other countries do much worse.<br />China conducted genocide against Tibet and killed their own students in Tianamen square, all in the last couple decades.  Now, is America really so bad?  <br />America is not the only place where slavery occured.  Slavery STILL exists in Africa.  But the US is the first country to actually END slavery.  Blacks owe the US much more than the US owes it.<br />I could go on and on....  but the point is, each liberal fool simply spouts poorly reasoned garbage that has already been defeated by this great American, Dinesh D'Souza.  I have yet to read any one-star review that finds a flaw in any argument written in the book.	2002-06-30
US	51756781	R34UQDLSV9GRKL	0895261537	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	5	10	17	N	N	Greater Truth never spoken	The liberals/communists (the two words can be used interchangeably) believe the following 4 falsehoods :<br />1) America is an inperialist monster that has got rich only by exploiting other countries.  The wealth created by software development in the last 25 years somehow exploits the resources of the Congo jungle.  <BR>2) Blacks in the US are still poor because they are oppressed from slavery that ended 140 years ago.  Nothing is actually their fault.  Black immigrants from Jamaica, Dominica, etc who do better than African Americans are selectively not targeted for racism by whites.  <BR>3) America forces its culture onto other nations.  People are FORCED by America to drink Coke and watch Baywatch, destroying their culture.  They would rather not experience these things<BR>4) The rich get richer, and the poor get poorer.  The fact than mroe than half of the Forbes 400 richest Americans started poor is a mere coincidence.  <br />From reading the reviews.  It is quite apparent that the one-star liberals are only spouting points that D'Souza has already wittily defeated with well-reasoned arguments.  Not a single thing in any one-star review actually points to a flaw in his reasoning.  Note that the 5-star reviews are well-written by educated people.<br />D'Souza is a great American, even though he is an immigrant.  Which country could possibly inspire an immigrant to become so loyal to it?  In fact, which nation would allow people such as the liberal/communists to speak out against the government.  In Iran or China, anyone who denounces the state would be summarily executed.  <br />In short, this is a great book, that anyone who has ever actually been to another country, anyone who works hard, anyone who believes in meritocracy, will find to be excellent.	2002-06-25
US	51756781	R2NPTRRMPARXG2	0895261537	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	5	20	34	N	N	Tremendous book to shoot down the ignorant liberals.	...D'Souza answers all of America's critics and exposes their hypiocrisy.  He says black people don't realize how lucky they are to be in the US, and if they had not been brought over, they would be stuck in hell in Africa.  He explains how the Islamic world hates the US because of the cultural influcence that threatens their corrupt practice of keeping the church and state as one entity, thus excusing atrocities.  His best hits are against the liberals in this country, who, if they got their way, would turn the US into a failed communist state like Russia....	2002-06-01
US	51756781	R23XRU6WC75L8C	0895261537	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	5	6	12	N	N	Codswallop?  Get an education!!	First of all, to the buyer, while I am giving this book 5 stars for content, know that this book is much shorter than a book of this price normally is.  It is about two-thirds the length it should be.<br />However, this is well reasoned and accurate.  It is NOT true that conservatives give this book 5 stars, while liberals one star.  I gave Pat Buchanan's Death of the West ONE star, because it is a racist book, but this book deserves 5 stars.  No one other than the codswallop mongers could give this book less than 5 stars.<br />D'Souza pretty much says what is true - that Jesse jackson should shut up and get to work.  Black people from the West Indies are proud to work hard in America.  He also exposes liberals for being ignorant.  What makes America great is that liberals like the Codswallop ignoramus below are even allowed to exist!  In Iran or China, they would be executed.	2002-05-18
US	51756781	R24XDBBILX3G9I	0895261537	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Fantastic!  Crystallizes the truth in excellent prose	This book, even though it is very short in duration, puts the critics in the garbage can about why America is the best.<br />He shoots down Jesse Jackson for bilking corporations out of money on false claims of rascism.  He chops the liberals who think that we are forcibly enforcing our culture on the rest of the world.  The reviewer who wrote 'codswallop' below would fall into the category of an ignorant liberal.  The only think D'Souza does not have the courage to do is blast Israel for tricking the US into supporting it and receiving terrorism on its behalf.<br />Fantastic book by a great American.	2002-05-06
US	51756781	R1S6HRV88MLLIZ	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	1	19	54	N	N	Factually incorrect, no matter what your views are	Buchanan is a white supremacist, who tries to get borderline people on his side by trying to appear well though out, but he fails on several points. Anyone who gives this book 4-5 stars is ignorant. <br />BUCHANAN HIMSELF HAS NO CHILDREN. Bet you didn't know that.<br />While his arguments on the massive flood of illegal Mexicans is the ONLY good point in the book, he makes several other snafus there :<br />He says that since California will be inundated by Mexicans and Asians, it will become a separate third world country.<br />er..Pat, you seem to be ignorant to the fact that Asians have a higher per capita income and education level than whites. Asians also have a much lower divorce rate than whites.  Asian Americans have the same low birth rates as whites.  THE RACIST PEOPLE WHO GIVE 5 STARS HERE ARE BOTHERED BY THIS FACT, AS IT IS NOT CONSISTENT WITH THEIR VIEWS, by contrast, the well educated whites (unlike those who give 5 stars here) know this.<br />Also, California also contains Hollywood and Silicon Valley. Are they really interested in joining Mexico?<br />Fat Pat also tries to mask his racism by expressing concern for the declining population of Russia and Japan - like he really supported these non-Christian nations while he worked for Reagan.<br />If he's so worried about the de-Christianization of America, are Mexicans not devout Christians? (Or do only Protestants apply?) <br />A hypocrite, an ignoramus, and a racist. He still has 20 more years of life left in him - let him get more bothered as Asians fill the ranks of the Forbes 400 richest.	2002-03-15
US	51756781	R3JH5D5S4QGS4I	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	1	6	33	N	N	Factually incorrect, first and foremost	Buchanan is a white supremacist, who tries to get borderline people on his side by trying to appear well though out, but he fails on several points.  Anyone who gives this book 5 stars is ignorant.  <br />Buchanan himself has no children.  Bet you didn't know that.<br />While his arguments on the massive flood of illegal Mexicans is the ONLY good point in the book, he makes several other snafus there :<br />He says that since California will be inundated by Mexicans and Asians, it will become a separate third world country.<br />er..Pat, you seem to be ignorant to the fact that Asians have a higher per capita income and education level than whites.  Asians also have a much lower divorce rate than whites.  <br />Also, California also contains Hollywood and Silicon Valley.  Are they really interested in joining Mexico?<br />Fat Pat also tries to mask his racism by expressing concern for the declining population of Russia and Japan - like he really supported these non-Christian nations while he worked for Reagan.<br />If he's so worried about the de-Christianization of America, are Mexicans not devout Christians? (Or do only Protestants apply?) <br />A hypocrite, an ignoramus, and a racist.  He still has 20 more years of life left in him - let him get more bothered as Asians fill the ranks of the Forbes 400 richest, while WASP teenagers buy CDs from Black and Hispanic musicians.	2002-03-08
US	51756781	R1Y5HNWJTNOJML	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	1	14	42	N	N	People don't understand anything.	I think anyone who gives this book 5 stars doesn't know anything about history.  Buchanan assumes that the countries that are poor or hostile to the US will be the same ones 100 years from now.<br />In 1945, if you would have predicted that Germany and Japan would be our allies while China would be our enemy, what would people have said.<br />The assumption that third world people are going to ruin America by coming here is typically racist Buchanan.  Buchanan believes that anything that is not white and Christian is uncivilized.  Well, he hates Mexicans, and they are Christian.  <br />Furthermore, Buchanan is not willing to admit the fact that Asians have a higher education level and income that whites in the US.  Blacks and Hispanics are poor, but Asians are richer and contribute more positively to the US economy than whites.	2002-03-06
US	51756781	RPX522REFR6JQ	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	1	12	38	N	N	I agree with his views on Mexicans, but nothing else.	All immigrants are not the same.  Look at the statistics for immigration of people in 2000<br />Mexico : 860,000 (half are illegal)<BR>Philippines : 45,000<BR>India : 43,000<BR>China : 38,000<br />Now, if we do noling else but restrict illegal mexicans, most of the problems caused by them will be solved.  Illegal, illiterate Mexicans greatly exceed the number of Asian immigrants.<br />Keep in mind that Mexico dumps their poorest and least educated people in the US.  Did you know that wealthy Mexicans are just as white as white Americans, and quite wealthy?  Why should the US be a dumping ground for Mexicans?  Would it be fair for America to start dumping poor black into the West Indies?<br />On the other hand, most Asian immigrants represent the best and brightest from that country.  They create more jobs than they consume, and the revolution in high technology can be largely attributed to them.  The per capita income of Asians in the US is higher than that of whites.  <br />So the issue is, let in the highly educated immigrants, but block the illiterate ones.  Mexicans and Cubans tend to fall into the latter category, but Indians, Chinese, Vietnamese, etc fall into the former (for the most part).<br />We should be letting in the Andy Groves, Vinod Khoslas, Roberto Goizuetas, and George Soros' of the world, but not the illegal Mexicans who dwarf their numbers.	2002-02-16
US	51756781	R1QB864NR5Z3H8	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	1	9	31	N	N	All immigrants are not equal.	While I strongly support greater restriction of illegal immigrants entering this country and contributing poverty and crime, I strongly encourage the immigration of highly educated immigrants.<br />There are 8 million illegals, and 3 million in southern California alone (mostly Mexicans).  Why should we allow them to stay here, when all they have to go to immigrate legally is educate themselves and get a job in the US?<br />On the other hand, the immigration of Indian and Chinese engineers has fostered the boom in silicon valley, and has allowed the US to stay as the most technologically advanced country on Earth.  Take at look at any top graduate engineering or MBA program in the country - Indians and Chinese are very heavily represented.<br />Mr. Buchanan might be interested to know that the per capita income of Asians is higher than of whites in this country.<br />Also, America can prevent Islamic terrorism against it by ceasing its support of Israel.  We get nothing out of it, but we receive terrorism for it.  Why?	2002-02-10
US	51756781	R1HRUV1U8AIPLK	0684809303	486858845	TELECOSM: How Infinite Bandwidth will Revolutionize Our World	Books	1	2	4	N	N	WHEN???	Gilder never says WHEN certain milestones are expected.  THe only sentence that touches the subject is 'sure, the acts of wasting time will hang around the house for another decade or so', but other than that he does not state when certain capabilites will be attained for the user.<br />I think the 'last mile' problem is an excuse.  Sure, it would be logistically very hard to get high-capacity fiber to homes, but the larger office buildings and universities could get it very shortly.  Then, consumers will simply use the high bandwidth at work to download their files onto ZIP of CD-RW, and then take it home.  High bandwidth will be effectively available to users long before they need it in the home.  <br />The new World Trade Center will probably go directly to fiber.	2002-02-10
US	51756781	R1VL3IXSWDHK3G	0684809303	486858845	TELECOSM: How Infinite Bandwidth will Revolutionize Our World	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not that Great	Considering that this book cost [more $] than books of this genre and size usually cost, the quality is not very good.<br />Gilder uses excellent prose and superb metaphors, but the book does not nail central issue...the issue of WHEN.<br />He says how the world will be so greatly revolutionized by infinite bandwidth, but never once does he offer a speculative timeline.  What can we expect by 2010?  By 2020?  That is what people want to see, and the lack of is is why it is selling so poorly compared to Ray Kurzweil's 'Age of Spiritual Machines'. <br />Overall, save you [$], and instead buy two books with the money, the aforementioned Kurzweil book and 'Entering Space' by Robert Zubrin.	2002-01-12
